Average cost to build a deck includes total expenses for labor and materials for basic deck construction. Difference in cost indicates you savings or how much more you should expect to pay in percentage equivalent for building a certain type of a deck based on materials used in comparison with cedar or redwood deck. $37.0 - $71.0. Cost of materials estimated as a charge per square foot in the case a contractor will purchase and supply all necessary materials at his own discretion to build a standard deck.
$19.0 - $36.0. $37.0 - $71.0. Cost of materials estimated as a charge per square foot in the case a contractor will purchase and supply all necessary materials at his own discretion to build a standard deck.
Of coarse it depends on your location. Here in North Eastern PA The average is $16-$20 per square foot, depending on the county, township, or city you are in. It costs roughly … $11-$13 for the materials and contractors average about $5-$8 per square foot for labor, not including steps. For example, my company charges approximately $18 per square foot to build a deck. So the difference in *cost to build a car* between Ford's and Toyota's labor cost per vehicle is $15/hr * 30 hours + $70/hr * 2hrs, or roughly $600, or.
1 Wood is the most traditional, common and easily available material for decks; it is typically easier to work with than composite materials. 2  Composite deck installation can cost $25-$70 or more a square foot (8,000 -$22,400 for 16'x20). 
What would you charge in labor to build a 14′ x 40′ deck with railings and a single staircase about 4 foot high, made out of composite decking. I would buy the decking and railings. What would be the cost to remove old deck board on 2 decks. 1 deck is 16 x 22ft 2deck is wrap around in 3 parts 16 x30ft 13x15ft adjoined by diagonal section 24ft x 15ft. Install the new boards with teko clips. Boards and brazilian mahogany hardwood that had to be pre-drilled for each. Estimate: $1500-2000 labor.
Now you know the average cost to build a composite deck, which includes the labor and material, and what’s involved, so you can decide to do it yourself or hire a contractor. To build a 300-square-foot ground level deck made of Trex, a composite material made of reclaimed wood and plastic, a contractor will charge $7500, which includes the labor and material.
Decking Prices. Once you determine what kind of decking materials you'll need to build the structure, it's time to get down to price. While the average cost to build a deck averages between $4,000 and $10,000, that doesn't account for the materials. Here is the average cost of each decking material, broken down by average price range per board: It's important to know what board sizes you'll need to purchase for your deck. The cost to construct a deck varies depending on the material used. Some of those prices include: These prices will vary by square footage and whether you have other features added to your deck that involve more materials. Learn more about decking materials and which one is right for you in the section below.
Of coarse it depends on your location. Here in North Eastern PA The average is $16-$20 per square foot, depending on the county, township, or city you are in. It costs roughly … $11-$13 for the materials and contractors average about $5-$8 per square foot for labor, not including steps. For example, my company charges approximately $18 per square foot to build a deck. 
Type of decking is an essential factor in determining the cost of building a deck. Particular materials not only vary in purchase price, but labor cost will be different when using a specific product due to simplicity or complexity of working with a certain type of decking materials. $37.0 - $71.0. Cost of materials estimated as a charge per square foot in the case a contractor will purchase and supply all necessary materials at his own discretion to build a standard deck.
Cost of labor calculated as a fee per square foot to build standard one level deck with minimum 140 sq. ft. of deck area on a flat surface up to 5’ above ground level excluding building stairs. Multi-level custom designed or decks smaller than 140 sq. ft. will be priced at higher rates. $37.0 - $71.0. Cost of materials estimated as a charge per square foot in the case a contractor will purchase and supply all necessary materials at his own discretion to build a standard deck.