Hypoglycaemia, or a hypo, is an abnormally low level of glucose in your blood (less than four millimoles per litre). When your glucose (sugar) level is too low, your body doesn't have enough energy to carry out its activities. Symptoms of hypoglycaemia. Most people will have some warning that their blood glucose levels are too low, which gives them time to correct them. Symptoms usually occur when blood sugar levels fall below four millimoles (mmol) per litre.
Diabetes mellitus refers to a group of diseases that affect how your body uses blood sugar (glucose). Glucose is vital to your health because it's an important source of energy for the cells that make up your muscles and tissues. It's also your brain's main source of fuel. 
Hypoglycemia is a condition characterized by abnormally low blood glucose (blood sugar) levels, usually less than 70 mg/dl. However, it is important to talk to your health care provider about your individual blood glucose targets, and what level is too low for you. Other people may start to have symptoms of hypoglycemia when their blood glucose levels are higher than 70 mg/dl. This can happen when your blood glucose levels are very high and start to go down quickly. If this is happening, discuss treatment with your health care provider.
Other Causes of Symptoms. Other people may start to have symptoms of hypoglycemia when their blood glucose levels are higher than 70 mg/dl. This can happen when your blood glucose levels are very high and start to go down quickly. If this is happening, discuss treatment with your health care provider.
The glycemic index or glycaemic index (GI) is a number associated with a particular type of food that indicates the food's effect on a person's blood glucose (also called blood sugar) level. 
Definition. Hypoglycemia is a condition characterized by an abnormally low level of blood sugar (glucose), your body's main energy source. Hypoglycemia is commonly associated with the treatment of diabetes. However, a variety of conditions, many of them rare, can cause low blood sugar in people without diabetes. 
In the testing of total reducing substances, the normal range of concentration of fasting blood sugar is 80 to 120 mg/ml; in the testing of true blood sugar, the normal range of concentration is 70 to 100 mg/ml. 
the concentration of glucose in the blood, represented in milligrams of glucose per deciliter of blood. Home monitoring devices make blood glucose measurement both efficient and accurate. Normal adult blood glucose levels range from 70 to 115 mg/dL (4 to 6 mmol/L), with generally higher levels after 50 years of age. A fasting serum glucose of 126 mg/dL on two or more occasions signifies diabetes mellitus
Blood glucose: The main sugar that the body makes from the food in the diet. Glucose is carried through the bloodstream to provide energy to all cells in the body. Cells cannot use glucose without the help of insulin. Glucose is a simple sugar (a monosaccharide). The body produces it from protein, fat and, in largest part, carbohydrate. Ingested glucose is absorbed directly into the blood from the intestine and results in a rapid increase in blood glucose.
A blood sample is taken in a lab, physician's office, or hospital. The test is done in the morning, before the person has eaten. The normal range for blood glucose is 70 to 100 mg/dl. Levels between 100 and 126 mg/dl are referred to as impaired fasting glucose or pre-diabetes. Diabetes is typically diagnosed when fasting blood glucose levels are 126 mg/dl or higher. Fasting blood glucose: A test to determine how much glucose (sugar) is in a blood sample after an overnight fast. The fasting blood glucose test is commonly used to detect diabetes mellitus.