When it comes to Bioeffects the intensity value established for diagnostic ultrasound is the SPTA intensity. The potential for tissue heating at this level falls within an acceptable range suitable for diagnostic imaging.
Amplitude is measured in units of pressure: MPa (Mega Pascals). Intensity is the rate at which energy passes through unit area. Average intensity of a sound beam is the total power in the beam divided by the cross-sectional area of the beam. Note: Beam power increases, intensity increases.
The problem has been with continuous ultrasound at intensity of 2.0 W/cm2. With the exception of Medicare patients, it is legal in our state for an aide to administer ultrasound as long as the therapist has assessed the patient prior to the aide giving ultrasound.
Intensity is proportional to the square of the amplitude. So if amplitude is squared, intensity is quadrupled. Intensity varies in diagnostic ultrasound because it's highest at the center of the beam and falls off near the periphery. It also varies along direction of travel due to focusing and attenuation.
Reference has been made in the preceding chapters to the term intensity in relation to. ultrasound, without giving it explicit scientific meaning. In this chapter, the concepts of. intensity and power of ultrasound are discussed in some detail.
Ultrasound dosage can also be varied by alteration of wave amplitude and intensity [the rate at which it is being delivered per unit area of the transducer surface (watts/cm 2)]. Machines differ with respect to the definition chosen for their intensity setting (Table 1 ⇔).
First time poster here with a question about ultrasound intensity. I am a PT with 20 yrs experience, graduated from a good school in U.S. I have always done continuous ultrasound at a 1.0-1.5 W/cm2 intensity, never higher, sometimes lower. I am filling in at a clinic I used to work at and know all the aides very well.
An ultrasound scan, also referred to as a sonogram, diagnostic sonography, and ultrasonography, is a device that uses high frequency sound waves to create an image of some part of the inside of the body, such as the stomach, liver, heart, tendons, muscles, joints and blood vessels.