All commercial, fruit-bearing Hass avocado trees have been grown from grafted seedlings propagated from a single tree which was grown from a seed bought by Rudolph Hass in 1926 from A. R. Rideout of Whittier, California. At the time, Rideout was getting seeds from any source he could find, even restaurant food scraps. Owing to its taste, size, shelf-life, high growing yield and in some areas, year-round harvesting, the Hass cultivar is the most commercially popular avocado worldwide. In the United States it accounts for more than 80% of the avocado crop, 95% of the California crop and is the most widely grown avocado in New Zealand.
Be careful not to remove the brown skin on the pit – that is the seed cover. Some avocado pits are slightly oblong, whereas others are shaped almost like perfect spheres – but all avocado pits have a ‘bottom’ (from where the roots will grow), and a ‘top’ (from which the sprout will grow). 
Distribution: Avocados are grown in tropical and subtropical areas of the world. In Florida, commercial production is primarily in Miami-Dade and Collier Counties, however, small plantings and isolated trees are found in warm locations throughout the state. Most avocado varieties do not come true from seed (i.e., a seed will not render the same variety), so they must be propagated vegetatively. Cleft grafting is the preferred method of propagation in Florida, although veneer grafting is also used.
Special Considerations. Avocado trees require horizontal spacing of 20 feet to accommodate their mature spread, and 30 to 60 feet of vertical space for height. Avocados grow best when humidity levels are high. Locate the tree in an area sheltered from high winds but open to slight breezes. Depending upon the variety, avocados grow in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 8 through 11. The most cold hardy of the three types is the Mexican avocado, which will grow in temperatures as low as 19 to 20 degrees Fahrenheit.
The avocado (Persea americana) is a tree native to Mexico and Central America, classified in the flowering plant family Lauraceae along with cinnamon, camphor and bay laurel. Avocado or alligator pear also refers to the fruit, botanically a large berry that contains a single seed. While dozens of cultivars are grown, the 'Hass' avocado is today the most common. It produces fruit year-round and accounts for 80% of cultivated avocados in the world. All 'Hass' trees are descended from a single mother tree raised by a mail carrier named Rudolph Hass, of La Habra Heights, California.
Importance: One of the important fruits in the American tropics, the avocado is grown commercially in many areas of the world including Mexico, Brazil, Dominican Republic, Australia, Israel, Chile, tropical Africa, Spain, and Indonesia. Most avocado varieties do not come true from seed (i.e., a seed will not render the same variety), so they must be propagated vegetatively. Cleft grafting is the preferred method of propagation in Florida, although veneer grafting is also used.
The first step is to choose a healthy nursery tree. Commonly, nursery avocado trees are grown in 3 gallon containers and these trees stand 2 to 4 ft from the soil media. Large trees in smaller containers should be avoided as the root system may be root bound. Most avocado varieties do not come true from seed (i.e., a seed will not render the same variety), so they must be propagated vegetatively. Cleft grafting is the preferred method of propagation in Florida, although veneer grafting is also used.
The Hass avocado /ˈhaes/ , ˈhæs sometimes marketed as The haas /avocado/ , ˈhɑːs is a cultivar of avocado with dark-green, colored bumpy. Skin it was first grown and sold By Southern california mail carrier and amateur Horticulturist Rudolph, hass who also gave it his. name Owing to its taste, size, shelf-life, high growing yield and in some areas, year-round harvesting, the Hass cultivar is the most commercially popular avocado worldwide. In the United States it accounts for more than 80% of the avocado crop, 95% of the California crop and is the most widely grown avocado in New Zealand.
Avocados are usually grown from pits indoors. This is often done by removing the pit from a ripe, unrefrigerated avocado. The pit is then stabbed with three or four toothpicks, about one-third of the way up. The pit is placed in a jar or vase containing tepid water. While dozens of cultivars are grown, the 'Hass' avocado is today the most common. It produces fruit year-round and accounts for 80% of cultivated avocados in the world. All 'Hass' trees are descended from a single mother tree raised by a mail carrier named Rudolph Hass, of La Habra Heights, California.