Calories Burned During Aquafit. A person weighing 125 pounds can burn an estimated 240 calories during a one hour aquafit workout. A person weighing 185 pounds may burn 356 calories during the same workout. The heavier you are the more energy it takes to do activities because your body has to move more weight. During the classes, you may perform calisthenic-type moves, use the water resistance while exercising with floaties, tread water, walk or jog -- all in waist-or neck-deep water. Although the calories burned vary, you may burn more than 200 calories per hour in an aquafit class.
You have to burn 3500 calories to lose one pound of weight. This is why you should use a calorie counter regularly. How to lose 20 pounds? You have to have a calorie deficit* of 70,000 calories to lose 20 pounds (*burn 70,000 more calories than the number of calories you eat). 1  Enter your age and gender. 2  Enter your height and weight.
Calories Burned-Water aerobics. Find out how many calories you burn for Water aerobics. The number of calories you burn while exercising is dependent on the exercise you do, your weight, and the time spent doing the exercise. Use the calories burned calculator below to see how many calories you burned during your workout. Your Weight in Pounds: 
Everyone burns calories at a different rate due to their weight, metabolism, muscle mass and intensity level. Shape magazine reports that you can generally expect to burn in the neighborhood of 700 calories during a 60-minute Aqua Zumba class. 
This page provides you with a Zumba calories calculator, allowing you to easily estimate how many Zumba® calories you have burned during your Zumba Fitness class or how many Zumba calories you burned at home with your Zumba Wii Fit, Zumba Fitness Party for XBox 360 or Zumba Fitness for PS3. 
Units of Energy -- Calories. A calorie is a unit of measurement that describes energy. When you exercise you burn calories or expend energy. The more calories you burn the harder you have exercised. In terms of body weight, 1 pound of fat is equivalent to 3,500 calories. The stored energy in your body fat can provide a lot of calories during your exercise routines. During the classes, you may perform calisthenic-type moves, use the water resistance while exercising with floaties, tread water, walk or jog -- all in waist-or neck-deep water. Although the calories burned vary, you may burn more than 200 calories per hour in an aquafit class.
You can burn 145-380 calories in 30 minutes of water aerobics. It depends on how much you weigh, how hard you work, and how long you exercise. Below is an estimate of how many calories you can burn during 30 minutes of water aerobics. 1  If you weigh 150 lbs, you can burn approximately 145 calories in 30 minutes. 2  If you weigh 200 lbs, you can burn approximately 190 calories in 30 minutes. 
Calorie Calculator. The workout calorie calculator helps you calculate calories burned during a workout-walking, biking, swimming, cycling, even kayaking. It uses standard calorie calculations based on your height, weight, gender and the duration of your workout. Plan healthy meals and track calories to help you meet your fitness goals