The circulatory system is the body's transport system. It is made up of a group of organs that transport blood throughout the body. The heart pumps the blood and the arteries and veins transport it. Oxygen-rich blood leaves the left side of the heart and enters the biggest artery, called the aorta. The aorta branches into smaller arteries, which then branch into even smaller vessels that travel all over the body
In contrast, oxygen and nutrients diffuse across the blood vessel layers and enter interstitial fluid, which carries oxygen and nutrients to the target cells, and carbon dioxide and wastes in the opposite direction. The other component of the circulatory system, the lymphatic system, is open. The circulatory system of the lungs is the portion of the cardiovascular system in which oxygen-depleted blood is pumped away from the heart, via the pulmonary artery, to the lungs and returned, oxygenated, to the heart via the pulmonary vein.
The blood is the transport system by which oxygen and nutrients reach the body's cells, and waste materials are carried away. The heart, a muscular organ, positioned behind the ribcage and between the lungs, is the pump that keeps this transport system moving. In the capillaries, food and oxygen are released to the body cells, and carbon dioxide and other waste products are returned to the bloodstream. The blood then travels in veins back to the right side of the heart, where it is pumped directly to the lungs.
LIFE SCIENCE The Circulatory system transports food and gases throughout our body. only one layer thickThe blood vessels that carry blood away from your heart and transport it to all part of the body are called arteries. The blood is returned to the heart from all parts of the body by the veins. A Healthy Circulatory System The heart circulates the blood throughout the body by pumping it to where it can supply nutrients and remove wastes. Factors Affecting the Respiratory System-SMOKING-The Contents of Cigarettes There are over 400 different chemicals in a cigarette.
A typical person has around 4-5 litres of blood. The blood is the transport system by which oxygen and nutrients reach the body's cells, and waste materials are carried away. In addition, blood carries substances called hormones, which control body processes, and antibodies to fight invading germs. 
Blood is a fluid consisting of plasma, red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets that is circulated by the heart through the vertebrate vascular system, carrying oxygen and nutrients to and waste materials away from all body tissues. The circulatory system of the lungs is the portion of the cardiovascular system in which oxygen-depleted blood is pumped away from the heart, via the pulmonary artery, to the lungs and returned, oxygenated, to the heart via the pulmonary vein.
The circulatory system is often seen to comprise both the cardiovascular system, which distributes blood, and the lymphatic system, which circulates lymph. These are two separate systems. The passage of lymph for example takes a lot longer than that of blood. The circulatory system of the lungs is the portion of the cardiovascular system in which oxygen-depleted blood is pumped away from the heart, via the pulmonary artery, to the lungs and returned, oxygenated, to the heart via the pulmonary vein.
Your circulatory system, which consists of your heart, blood and blood vessels, are responsible for transporting nutrients to the cells of your body. Specifically, nutrients are transported throughout your body through your blood via capillaries, tiny blood vessels that connect arteries to veins. The Circulatory System. Transporting nutrients to the cells of your body is the job of your circulatory system. The circulatory system consists of your heart, blood and blood vessels. There are three types of blood vessels: arteries, veins and capillaries. Nutrients are transported throughout your body through your blood via capillaries, tiny blood vessels that connect arteries to veins. Nutrients, oxygen and wastes all pass in and out of your blood through the capillary wall
The Circulatory System. The heart, the blood, and the blood vessels make up a system for the transport of gases, nutrients, and chemical wastes. The primary functions of the circulatory system are the following: 1  To transport nutrients and oxygen to the cells. 2  To remove waste and carbon dioxide from the cells. 