Ali (Arabic: علي‎ , ʿAlī) is a male Arabic name, derived from the Arabic root ع ل و which literally means high or Elevated. It is a common name in Arabic countries and the rest of the Muslim world. Islamic traditional use of the name goes back to Ali ibn Abu Talib, the Islamic leader and cousin of Muhammad, but the name is identical in form and meaning to the Hebrew: עֵלִי ‎, Eli, which goes back to the Eli in the biblical Books of Samuel.
- Minecraft w Ali-A! Alastair Aiken, 1993 ,more commonly known as Ali-A, is a British Youtuber. He started his channel by the name Matroix and uploads videos like playing Call of Duty. He currently has over 6.7 million subscribers on his main channel and 2 million subscribers on his second channel. He was born on November 6. Ali-A also has a brother by the name Simon Aiken. He has two Youtube Channels: 1  Ali-A (formerly named Matroix): His main channel, where he uploads Call of Duty related content. 2  MoreAliA: His second channel in which he uploads Minecraft, Mario Games, vlogs and many more.
Muslim Meaning: The name Ali is a Muslim baby name. In Muslim the meaning of the name Ali is: Excellent. Noble. Early Imam (Leader) of Islam. American Meaning: The name Ali is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Ali is: Excellent. Noble. Early Imam (Leader) of Islam. The name Ali is an Arabic baby name. In Arabic the meaning of the name Ali is: Elevated. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 4. People with this name have a deep inner desire to use their abilities in leadership, and to have personal independence.
Ali (girl). Ali /ali/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used more widely as boys' name Ali) is pronounced AL-ee. It is of Arabic origin, and the meaning of Ali is exalted. In English, Ali is used as a nickname of Allie, Alexandra and names beginning with Al-. Actress Ali McGraw. Affiliated girl names: Alice and Alberta. Displayed below is a comparison of the usage of the girl name Ali and corresponding names. Alberta, Alex, Alexa (#63 a year ago) , Alexandra (#92) , Alexia (#270) , Alexis (#64) , Alice (#97) , Allie (#257) , Ally (#736) and Lexi (#242) are the popular varying forms of Ali ranked in the Top 1000.
Ali is from Muslim origin, meaning is excellent, noble. Early Imam (leader) of Islam. Ali was the name of the Prophet Muhammad's cousin and son-in-law, known as the first male convert to Islam. The name is one of the ninety-nine attributes of Allah proposed by Muhammad as excellent names for boy children. The name is also borne by the hero in Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves.
The name Ali can arise away from Islam; among English-speakers as short for male and female names starting with Al-, or the Old Norse man's name Áli. áli it can also be An english, nickname as a shortened form Of, Alexandra, Alison, Alice, alistair Or. alexander It is a common name in Arabic countries and the rest of the Muslim world. Islamic traditional use of the name goes back to Ali ibn Abu Talib, the Islamic leader and cousin of Muhammad, but the name is identical in form and meaning to the Hebrew: עֵלִי ‎, Eli, which goes back to the Eli in the biblical Books of Samuel.
It can also be an English nickname, as a shortened form of Alexandra, Alison, Alice, Alistair, or Alexander. Ali is also a Finnish male given name, derived from Aleksanteri. Also, households by a river are often named Ali- downstream and Yli- upstream, thus the component Ali-occurs in surnames derived from these, e.g. It is a common name in Arabic countries and the rest of the Muslim world. Islamic traditional use of the name goes back to Ali ibn Abu Talib, the Islamic leader and cousin of Muhammad, but the name is identical in form and meaning to the Hebrew: עֵלִי ‎, Eli, which goes back to the Eli in the biblical Books of Samuel.
Ali /ali/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used less regularly as girls' name Ali) is pronounced ah-LEE, AH-lee. It is of Arabic origin, and the meaning of Ali is  high, exalted. Ali was the name of the Prophet Muhammad's cousin, known as the first male convert to Islam. The name is one of the ninety-nine attributes of Allah proposed by Muhammad as excellent names for boy children. The name is also borne by the hero in Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves. Ali is a somewhat popular first name for men (#614 out of 1220, Top 50%) and an even more popular surname for both adults and children (#876 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Ali for boys.