1 Allow 10' spacing for planted hardwood saplings. 2  This gives you approximately 440 trees per acre. 3  Maintain this spacing until the trees reach 8 in diameter, then thin to increase spacing to 20'. According to consulting forester Jim Birkemeier, a properly managed hardwood tree, such as a red oak, growing in southern Wisconsin adds 1/2 to its adult diameter each year.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Google search How to grow a pine tree from seed (softwood), How to grow an oak tree from an acorn (hardwood). Do similar searches for as many harwood, softwood trees as you like. There should be sufficient information on the internet. You could also visit a garden centre and ask them about it. 
Hardwood is wood from deciduous trees and broad-leaf evergreen trees. All hardwoods are angiosperms (flowering plants), the largest group of land plants. Hardwood is contrasted to softwood, which comes from conifers, cone bearing seed plants. Each species of hardwood has its own set of properties, however they have some properties in common. Hardwoods normally have broad leaves and come from deciduous or broad-leafed evergreen trees. Hardwoods grow slower than softwoods. Evergreen softwoods grow faster than deciduous hardwoods, and can grow to a larger size. Some hardwoods are excellent for carving
Hardwoods can be differentiated from soft wood.    Basically hard woods are those that grow slowly, because of this  the wood is more dense (annual rings are closer to … gether) and the  wood is harder. Hardwoods are deciduous and loose their leaves in winter. They are harder than softwoods except Balsa wood. They are a Broadleaved trees w … hich belong to the 'Angiospermae' or flowering plant such as fruits or seeds. They are usually found in more temperate zones.
For example, balsa wood is one of the lightest, least dense woods there is, and it's considered a hardwood. The distinction between hardwood and softwood actually has to do with plant reproduction. All trees reproduce by producing seeds, but the seed structure varies. Hardwood trees are angiosperms, plants that produce seeds with some sort of covering. This might be a fruit, such as an apple, or a hard shell, such as an acorn. Softwoods, on the other hand, are gymnosperms. These plants let seeds fall to the ground as is, with no covering. Evergreens do tend to be less dense than deciduous trees, and therefore easier to cut, while most hardwoods tend to be more dense, and therefore sturdier. But, as the classification of balsa wood demonstrates, there is no minimum weight requirement to become
Hardwoods have broad leaves and are angiosperms. While most hardwoods are more dense (higher specific gravity of dried wood) than softwoods, this is not universally so. Balsa, for example, is a hardwood and Southern Yellow Pine, used for flooring, is a softwood. The growth rate also has nothing to do with strength or density
Tree Plantation creates instant forests. We do this by growing tall tree seedlings in the shortest time possible. Our patented technology grows hardwood and softwood tree seedlings to an average height of 10 feet in just 5 years from seed. 
Deciduous Hardwoods These are the trees that lose their leaves in winter. They generally grow in temperate climates including the British Isles, Europe, Japan, New Zealand, Chile, and central U.S.A. Examples of Deciduous Hardwoods are:- Oak, Ash, Elm, Beech, Birch, Walnut, Sycamore, Chestnut and Lime. They grow much quicker than hardwoods and are cheaper, softer and easier to work. Their seeds are held in cones. common examples are:- Pine, Fir, Spruce, Larch, Cedar and the Giant Redwood. The terms softwoods and hardwoods are used to describe the leaves, seeds and structure of the trees.