According to vision insurance provider Vision Service Plan Direct, the national average price as of June 2015 of a comprehensive eye exam without insurance is $154. The latter does not include frames, prescription lenses or optical lens enhancements. Personal finance website Nerdwallet notes that as of March 2015, the median price for such an exam is $85. You can expect to pay between $50 and $100, depending on whether you go to a big-box retailer or a private clinic. The price of a no-insurance eye exam also fluctuates widely based on locality. As of 2015, you could have gotten an eye exam in Knoxville, Tennessee, for as little as $29 or as expensive as $560 in Sunnyvale, California. Ensure that the costs you are comparing are the same
1 The national average charge for an eye exam is $114 for those without insurance, according to the Vision Service Plan. 2  The cost varies depending upon the clinic and region of the country. 3  Lakewood Family Eye Care clinic, in Lakewood Ranch, Fla., charges $109 for an eye exam for those without insurance. 1 Discount clinics, such as those at WalMart, can charge as little as $50 for an eye exam. 2  For patients with vision insurance coverage, the typical copay will apply. 3  For some, the vision plan covers the full cost of a regular annual eye exam. 4  Other plans charge a copay of $5 to $35
Eye Exam Prices by Metro Area. The price of a no-insurance eye exam also fluctuates widely based on locality. As of 2015, you could have gotten an eye exam in Knoxville, Tennessee, for as little as $29 or as expensive as $560 in Sunnyvale, California. Ensure that the costs you are comparing are the same. Personal finance website Nerdwallet notes that as of March 2015, the median price for such an exam is $85. You can expect to pay between $50 and $100, depending on whether you go to a big-box retailer or a private clinic. The price of a no-insurance eye exam also fluctuates widely based on locality.
1 Glasses can cost just $8 or up to $600 for those without insurance. 2  For name brands, prices can range between $50 and $1,000 or more. 3  At an eye doctor's clinic, prices for eyeglasses will vary depending upon the frames, lenses and region of the country. 1 For name brands, prices can range between $50 and $1,000 or more. 2  At an eye doctor's clinic, prices for eyeglasses will vary depending upon the frames, lenses and region of the country. 3  The average price for eyeglasses nationally is $196, according to Vision Service Plan.
Generally, eye exam costs can range from less than $50 (usually at a retail store or optical chain) to $100 or more (usually at a medical clinic or private eye doctor's office). Also, eye exams for contact lenses nearly always cost more than routine eye exams to update your eyeglasses prescription. The cost of an eye exam can vary significantly, based on where you get your exam and other factors, including: 1  Whether the exam is performed by an optometrist or an ophthalmologist. 2  The tests that are included in the exam. 3  Whether the exam includes a contact lens fitting or other contact lens-related services
The basic eye exam at lenscrafters would cost you $59. However, if you need to get a comprehensive eye exam, you should pay more $35 for your eye exam. But You may find the price of the eye exam different in different places. Some optomologists at Lenscrafters would charge you about $75 for the exam. So if you want to know how much does an eye exam will cost in the store you choose, you may need to call the store for more information. And they will charge you extra money for you don't have insurance. I think may be the total price is around $100.
1 The cost varies depending upon the clinic and region of the country. 2  Lakewood Family Eye Care clinic, in Lakewood Ranch, Fla., charges $109 for an eye exam for those without insurance. 3  Discount clinics, such as those at WalMart, can charge as little as $50 for an eye exam. 1 Discount clinics, such as those at WalMart, can charge as little as $50 for an eye exam. 2  For patients with vision insurance coverage, the typical copay will apply. 3  For some, the vision plan covers the full cost of a regular annual eye exam. 4  Other plans charge a copay of $5 to $35