There’s no easy, one-size-fits-all answer to the question of how long detox will continue when a drinker attempts to stop drinking alcohol. A number of factors will play a part in determining the length of detox as well as the type and severity of withdrawal symptoms. Mental health problems are often a part of alcohol detox and part of the withdrawal symptoms experienced. They can include: 1  Depression. 2  Anxiety. 3  Paranoia.
So just how long do alcohol withdrawal symptoms last? General speaking there will be 2-4 days of acute withdrawal. Withdrawal symptoms are usually worst on the 2nd/3rd days after the last drink, but this will vary from person to person. The detox process is not that long; for most individuals, it will take as little as a week. Alcohol withdrawal affects everyone differently, but generally the more you drank, the more frequently you drank, and the longer you were an alcoholic – the higher your chances of experiencing severe alcohol withdrawal symptoms. 
Detox can occur when the blood alcohol level is decreasing, even if a person is still intoxicated. Onset of alcohol detox is usually 6–24 hours after the last drink. Consuming opiates or sedatives may delay the start of detox process.Alcohol detox timeline and scheduleAlcohol detox duration commonly lasts from around 5-14 days depending on how long the patient has been drinking. This is depends by many factors. However, some general principles exist during alcohol detox, as well. For less severe cases of alcohol dependence, detoxification from alcohol is usually brief, and ends after 2–3 days without treatment. Infrequently, detox may continue for up to 14 days.
1 Seizures are possible as well, and can continue for days after the process begins. 2  For many, the detox process does not end at 48 hours. 3  Extreme addictions will require close monitoring for days after the decision to detox is made. 4  The Rest of the Alcohol Detox Process. While statistics from the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism show that only 43 percent of men have engaged in binge drinking, NIAAA has demonstrated just how devastating alcoholism is to a person’s life when you consider the duration of abuse.
Withdrawal usually begins 6 to 8 hours following a reduction in alcohol use, peaks 24 to 28 hours after the last drink, and can last up to 7 days. After you withdraw from alcohol, however, you can and may experience disrupted sleep patterns or changes in attention and concentration days to months after the last drink. The acute alcohol withdrawal usually is over within 5-8 days but some people suffer from depressions, sleep disturbances and other diffuse symptoms for weeks or even months after a long period of drinking.
As every person's body reacts differently, withdrawal symptoms vary as does the length of time it takes to detox. Average length of time it takes for someone to detox from heavy alcohol use is 3 to 7 days with the most severe symptoms happening within 48-72 hours. It is always a good idea to see your doctor even if you are planning to detox at home. 
Alcohol detoxification, or detox, for individuals with alcohol dependence, is the abrupt cessation of alcohol intake, a process often coupled with substitution of cross-tolerant drugs that have effects similar to the effects of alcohol in order to prevent alcohol withdrawal. 
Alcohol detox duration typically lasts from 5-14 days but symptoms can persist for weeks or months after detox, depending on how long the patient has been drinking and the stage of alcoholism. However, some general principles exist during alcohol detox, as well. For less severe cases of alcohol dependence, detoxification from alcohol is usually brief, and ends after 2–3 days without treatment. Infrequently, detox may continue for up to 14 days.
1 The First Hours of Alcohol Detox. 2  Cravings are some of the first symptoms of alcohol withdrawal, and a sure sign that the body is beginning the detox process. 3  Cravings can occur within hours of taking a final drink and continue far into the detox process. While statistics from the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism show that only 43 percent of men have engaged in binge drinking, NIAAA has demonstrated just how devastating alcoholism is to a person’s life when you consider the duration of abuse.
The actual length of time that it takes to completely detox from alcohol depends on how bad the alcohol dependency really is. For those who have been drinking regularly for many years, the alcohol detox process may take longer than for an individual who has only been drinking for a short period of time. 