Children achieve bladder control at different ages. By the age of 6 years, most children no longer urinate in their sleep. Bed-wetting up to 6 years of age is not unusual, even though it may be frustrating to parents. If a child is younger than 6 years of age, treatment for bed-wetting usually is not necessary. Most children outgrow bed-wetting without treatment. However, you and your doctor may decide your child needs treatment. There are 2 kinds of treatment: behavior therapy and medicine. Behavior therapy helps teach your child not to wet the bed.
Bedwetting can be upsetting for children and their families. Some useful tips that you can try are shown below. 1  There are continence health professionals with special training in children's bladder problems-contact the National Continence Helpline for details of a continence health professional in your area. 1 Help your child to drink regularly throughout the day. 2  Support your child in choosing to become dry and be positive about the treatments they are using. 3  Watch for constipation as this can make the bladder problem worse. 4  Seek medical help if it is an ongoing problem.
1 There is a family history of bedwetting. 2  Most children who wet the bed have at least one parent who had the same problem as a child. 3  Your child's bladder is small or not developed enough to hold urine for a full night. 4  Your child has an underlying medical problem. Managing bedwetting. 1  Do not blame your child. 2  Remember that it is not your child's fault. ( 3 See Causes of bedwetting.). 4  Be honest with your child about what is going on. 5  Let your child know it's not his or her fault and that most children outgrow bedwetting. 6  Be sensitive to your child's feelings.
What parents can do. 1  Reassure your child that bedwetting is normal, that there is nothing to be ashamed about, and that she will grow out of it. 2  It might help her to know if someone else in the family used to wet the bed. 3  Try to have your child drink more fluids during the day, and less at night. 1 Check with your doctor if: 2  your child is still wetting in the day by school age. 3  your child who has been dry starts wetting again for more than one or two nights. 4  you or your child are becoming very upset by the bedwetting. 5  you have any other concerns about
Bedwetting: The Secret Problem. That secrecy about bedwetting makes the situation tougher for kids and parents alike. Ninety percent of kids think they're the only ones who wet the bed, which makes them feel even worse, says Bennett. Yet bed-wetting children are far from alone. Though children naturally gain bladder control at night, they do so at different ages. From 5 to 7 million kids wet the bed some or most nights -- with twice as many boys wetting their bed as girls. After age 5, about 15% of children continue to wet the bed, and by age 10, 95% of children are dry at night.
All about Bed wetting (Enuresis). All about Bed wetting (Enuresis). If your child wakes up in the morning, soaked in urine, and you stand helpless and frustrated, this article is designed for you. Everything you wished to know and didn’t know whom to ask about Nocturnal Enuresis. ​.
There are some things that don't help, and are not recommended. 1  Don't punish your child for wetting the bed. 2  Don't shame the child in front of family or friends. 3  Don't lift the child out of bed at night to toilet them as a treatment. 4  This may cut down on some wet beds, but it does not help the child learn to be dry. 1 Help your child to drink regularly throughout the day. 2  Support your child in choosing to become dry and be positive about the treatments they are using. 3  Watch for constipation as this can make the bladder problem worse. 4  Seek medical help if it is an ongoing problem.
Treating bedwetting. Most children stop wetting the bed as they get older, but in the meantime there are a number of treatments you can try. These treatments may help keep your child dry until they grow out of the problem. The treatment for your child depends on a number of things, such as: 1  how often they're wetting the bed. 2  the impact that bedwetting is having, both on your child and on you, your partner and other members of your family.
Bedwetting is quite common in school-age children: they can’t control it, and most grow out of it. In the meantime, there are things you can do to help your child feel better about this issue. 1 Check with your doctor if: 2  your child is still wetting in the day by school age. 3  your child who has been dry starts wetting again for more than one or two nights. 4  you or your child are becoming very upset by the bedwetting. 5  you have any other concerns about