Standard-size pear trees reach 30 feet tall. Even if you have the room for a tree that size, the fruit from its upper branches can be hard to harvest. That's why most home pear growers choose dwarf or semidwarf varieties. 
Summercrisp Pear will grow to be about 25 feet tall at maturity, with a spread of 20 feet. It has a low canopy with a typical clearance of 4 feet from the ground, and is suitable for planting under power lines. It grows at a fast rate, and under ideal conditions can be expected to live for 70 years or more. 
The fine-grained flesh is an appealing, creamy white with just a hint of sunny-yellow. Seckel Pear trees will grow up to 12 feet tall with an 18 foot spread. It’s a reliable and productive tree that it considered self-pollinating, but will do best with a pollinator nearby. It has some disease resistance, is aromatic and generally hardy. 
Pear trees can reach a height of 25 feet or more and grow in any fertile, well-drained soil, in full sun. They have strong vertical branches and require little pruning. The fruit grows on long-lived spurs and is spherical to typically pear-shaped. It should never be allowed to ripen on the tree. 
Garden Spacing. Although the pears are self-fertile, they produce more fruit if they are cross-pollinated. To help with this, plant another variety of European pear within 50 feet of your Seckel trees. Any European variety other than Bartlett will do the job nicely. If you are planting several pear trees, be sure to keep them 8 to 10 feet from your water or sewer pipes or from driveways and patios.
• Semi-Dwarf pear tree will grow to 25 feet tall if not pruned and will grow as wide. Semi-dwarf pears are commonly pruned from 12 to 15 feet tall with equal spread. Semi-dwarf pears bear fruit in 3 to 5 years and can live to 60 years old. Asian pears are usually trained to an open center (shaped like a vase). Here are pear tree forms and the space they require: • Standard-size pear tree can grow to 40 feet tall if not pruned and have a spread of 30 to 40 feet. Standard pears are commonly pruned from 15 to 25 feet tall with an equal spread. Plant standard pear trees 18 to 25 feet apart. Standard pears fruit in 4 to 8 years and can live for 75 years
Growing Pears in the Home Garden Pears will grow well in all but the colder areas of New Hampshire. Popular varieties such as Bartlett and Bosc are reasonably winter hardy where temperatures seldom fall below -25oF. Pears bloom several days earlier than apples. 
How to Grow Pear Trees. This topic is broken into a series of articles that focus on the key components of planting and growing pear trees. This includes getting started, care & maintenance, and other topics. 
Hi, Melissa, We haven't grow pears in containers. Because there are no truly dwarfing rootstocks for pears, pear trees can be large. Well-pruned mature trees are 18 feet to 20 feet tall. They seem best suited for the ground. 1 Plant in any fertile, well-drained soil in full sun in a place with good air circulation in the winter or early spring. 2  Space standard-size trees 20 to 25 feet apart. 3  Space dwarf trees 12 to 1