In the earlier literature two distinct types of sequence boundary were recognized. [ORIGINAL DEF]. These terms are now redundant because Type 1 sequence boundaries equate to those formed during a forced regression whereas Type 2 sequence boundaries are those forced during a normal regression (Coe et al. The Hunt and Tucker (1992) suggest that this  sequence boundary  over the forced regression does not match Mitchum's (1977) original definition of a sequence boundary or its time equivalent marine correlative conformity that was tied to the onset of a sea level fall.
The 'sequence' part of the name refers to cyclic sedimentary deposits. Stratigraphy is the geologic knowledge about the processes by which sedimentary deposits form and how those deposits change through time and space on the Earth's surface. Sequence boundaries are formed due to the sea level fall. For example, multi-story fluvial sandstone packages often infill incised valleys formed by the sea level drop associated with sequence boundaries.
unconformity. sequence s are enveloped by sequence boundaries (SB) that are identified as significant erosional unconformities and their correlative conformities. These boundaries are the product of a fall in sea level that erodes the subaerially exposed sediment surface of the earlier sequence or sequence s. The Hunt and Tucker (1992) suggest that this  sequence boundary  over the forced regression does not match Mitchum's (1977) original definition of a sequence boundary or its time equivalent marine correlative conformity that was tied to the onset of a sea level fall.
Sequence boundaries are deemed the most significant surfaces. Sequence boundaries are defined as unconformities or their correlative conformities. Sequence boundaries are formed due to the sea level fall. For example, multi-story fluvial sandstone packages often infill incised valleys formed by the sea level drop associated with sequence boundaries.
The Entity-Control-Boundary Pattern. The analysis object model instantiates the Entity-Control-Boundary Pattern (ECB). ECB is a simplification of the Model-View-Controller Pattern. ECB partitions the system into three types of classes: entities, controls, and boundaries. entity, control, and boundary are official UML class stereotypes. 
Sequence Boundary. The sequence boundary is an unconformity updip and a correlative conformity downdip. Where it is an unconformity, it is a surface of subaerial exposure and erosion; however, the expression of those features in an individual outcrop may or may not be obvious. The transgressive surface represents the first major flooding surface to follow the sequence boundary and is usually distinct from the relatively minor flooding surfaces that separate parasequences in the lowstand systems tract.
Early models of sequence boundary formation argued that the sequence boundary formed at the time of maximum rate of fall, but subsequent models suggest that the age of the sequence boundary can range in age from the time of maximum rate of fall to the time of eustatic lowstand. The transgressive surface represents the first major flooding surface to follow the sequence boundary and is usually distinct from the relatively minor flooding surfaces that separate parasequences in the lowstand systems tract.
Type-1 carbonate sequence (SB-1) unconformity Boundary Type-1 carbonate sequence boundary (SB-1) is an unconformity characterized by stream rejuvenation and fluvial incision, sedimentary bypass of the shelf, and abrupt basinward shift of facies and coastal onlap.
The first of the series of these flooding surfaces is called the transgressive surface. In updip areas characterized by subaerial exposure and erosion during the lowstand systems tract, the transgressive surface and sequence boundary are merged into a single surface. The transgressive surface represents the first major flooding surface to follow the sequence boundary and is usually distinct from the relatively minor flooding surfaces that separate parasequences in the lowstand systems tract.