On the higher heat, cook the steaks for three to four minutes, flipping once. Move them to a low-heat section of the grill and cook for five to eight minutes more, flipping once, depending on how well done you prefer your steak. This will give you a medium steak. Grill less on low heat for a rarer steak and longer on the high heat for a more well-done steak.
Rub the steaks with pepper -- preferably fresh cracked pepper. Place the steaks on a preheated grill at a 45-degree angle to the grill grate and cook for 1 to 1 1/2 minutes; then rotate the steaks 90 degrees and grill for an additional 1 to 1 1/2 minutes. Step 6. Place the steaks on a preheated grill at a 45-degree angle to the grill grate and cook for 1 to 1 1/2 minutes; then rotate the steaks 90 degrees and grill for an additional 1 to 1 1/2 minutes. Once the steaks are browned on one side, flip over and cook for 1 to 1 1/2 minutes more
3. Grill your steak. Place the steak in the hottest part of the grill, usually the middle. For rare, cook it for 2 minutes on each side and then move it to the cooler part of the grill, usually the edges, for another 6-8 minutes, flipping occasionally. For medium rare add 1-3 minutes and for medium add 3-5 minutes to the total cooking time. 4. Let your steak sit for a few minutes before serving
1 The cooking times described are for thin-cut steaks, approximately 1/4- to 1/2-inch thick. 2  Thicker steaks require additional cooking time. 3  For good results with a thin steak, choose a cut that is tender and flavorful; tougher cuts are not ideal for high-heat direct grilling. Step 6. Place the steaks on a preheated grill at a 45-degree angle to the grill grate and cook for 1 to 1 1/2 minutes; then rotate the steaks 90 degrees and grill for an additional 1 to 1 1/2 minutes. Once the steaks are browned on one side, flip over and cook for 1 to 1 1/2 minutes more
Continue to grill with the lid open for about 4 - 6 minutes. Flip the steaks over onto the other side, still over the hottest part of the grill. Grill the rib eye steaks for an additional 4 - 6 minutes on the other side, lid open, for a medium-rare delicious steak. Remove the steaks from the grill and allow to rest for 5 minutes before serving.
After that, put the steaks on top of the grill. Turn the steaks once it gets a brown color. Get a meat thermometer to check the doneness of the steak. When the meat is 170-degrees Fahrenheit, it is well done, 160 degrees for medium and 145 degrees for medium-rare. A one inch steak at room temperature on a preheated, hot grill should cook 2 min a side for rare, 3.5 min a side for medium rare, 5 min a side for medium and so on.. add a min … ute and half for each degree of doneness. DON'T poke or cut the steak while cooking, you will dry it out
About 20 minutes before grilling, remove the steaks from the refrigerator and let sit, covered, at room temperature. Heat your grill to high. Brush the steaks on both sides with oil and season liberally with salt and pepper. Place the steaks on the grill and cook until golden brown and slightly charred, 4 to 5 minutes. 
Tips. 1  The cooking times described are for thin-cut steaks, approximately 1/4- to 1/2-inch thick. 2  Thicker steaks require additional cooking time. 3  For good results with a thin steak, choose a cut that is tender and flavorful; tougher cuts are not ideal for high-heat direct grilling. Step 6. Place the steaks on a preheated grill at a 45-degree angle to the grill grate and cook for 1 to 1 1/2 minutes; then rotate the steaks 90 degrees and grill for an additional 1 to 1 1/2 minutes. Once the steaks are browned on one side, flip over and cook for 1 to 1 1/2 minutes more