Adrian Dantley net worth – Adrian Dantley is a former professional basketball player who has a net worth of $1.5 million. Born in Washington, D.C. in 1955, Adrian Dantley played forward at Notre Dame, where he was a two-time, first-team All-American. Dantley was shipped to the Utah Jazz, his fourth team in four years. He remained with the Jazz until 1986 with six All-Star appearances before being traded to the Pistons. Dantley was again moved halfway through the 1989 season to the Dallas Mavericks in exchange for Mark Aguirre.
Adrian Delano Dantley (born February 28, 1955) is a retired American basketball player who played 15 seasons in the National Basketball Association (NBA). A forward / guard and six-time NBA All-Star, he was inducted into the Basketball Hall of Fame in 2008. Utah traded Dantley to the Detroit Pistons after the 1986 season. Dantley was still an effective scorer but did not get as many shots with Isiah Thomas, Joe Dumars, Vinnie Johnson and Bill Laimbeer all averaging at least 10 points per game.
Aguirre played from 1981–1994 and won two championships with the Detroit Pistons after being sent to Detroit from the Dallas Mavericks in exchange for Adrian Dantley. Aguirre was a three-time All-Star for Dallas. 
At first thought, when you hear about a former NBA superstar worth millions who is now working a job where he makes $15,000 annually, you might be inclined to think, “Oh, man. He didn’t manage his money and now he’s working a minimum wage job.”. Fortunately, this isn’t the case with Adrian Dantley. Dantley, a collegiate All-American at Notre Dame and an NBA hall-of-famer. He still lives in his $1.1 million home, is virtually debt-free and his net worth still ranges in the seven figure area. 
Dantley had a stellar collegiate career for the Fighting Irish. As a freshman, he played an important role in one of the biggest games in college basketball history, Notre Dame's 1974 upset to end UCLA 's record 88-game winning streak. Utah traded Dantley to the Detroit Pistons after the 1986 season. Dantley was still an effective scorer but did not get as many shots with Isiah Thomas, Joe Dumars, Vinnie Johnson and Bill Laimbeer all averaging at least 10 points per game.
That Pistons team would go on to win an NBA championship later that season. Dantley's career ended with the Milwaukee Bucks in 1991. He currently ranks sixth in NBA history for free throws. The Jazz retired his number-four uniform in 2007. Dantley was inducted into the Basketball Hall of Fame the next year. Dantley was shipped to the Utah Jazz, his fourth team in four years. He remained with the Jazz until 1986 with six All-Star appearances before being traded to the Pistons. Dantley was again moved halfway through the 1989 season to the Dallas Mavericks in exchange for Mark Aguirre.
adrian dantley net worth. adrian dantley highlights. adrian dantley hall of fame speech. adrian dantley. adrian dantley post moves. 1  Entertainment. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
The Deadspin story that broke the news of Dantley’s $14K-a-year retirement gig last week suggested that the player, always frugal with his 15 seasons of pro-ball earnings and seven of coaching, took it so he wouldn’t have to pay out of pocket for health insurance. “Nah, I just did it for the kids,” he said. Adrian Dantley, former Denver Nuggets assistant coach and NBA Hall of Fame inductee, in 2010 (AP Photo/Ross D. Franklin). “It’s not a big thing to me,” the DeMatha grad, 58, who lives not far from his post at Eastern Middle School, told us. “I just do it. I have a routine. I exercise, I go to work, I go home.
Adrian Dantley was one of the most prolific scorers, and one of the greatest undersized forwards, in NBA history. He began his basketball education under the watchful eye of Hall of Fame coach Morgan Wootten at DeMatha Catholic in Hyattsville, Maryland. Smaller defenders were in for a long night as well as Dantley was strong enough to post up players of all shapes and sizes. He led the NBA in scoring twice and averaged better than 30 points per game each season between 1981 and 1984. The six-time NBA All Star finished his career with 23,177 points.