1 A Radiation Therapy degree can be either an associates degree or a bachelor's degree. 2  Starting in 2015, certification from the ARRT (which is not always necessary for employment) requires a college degree. 3. Attend a college with an accredited radiation therapy program. In addition to learning about radiation therapy procedures, these programs will generally require coursework in human anatomy and physiology, physics, algebra, computer science, and research methodology.
There are a few different types of radiation therapy programs that can be taken to receive the appropriate training to become a radiation therapist. There are one, two and even four year programs that can be taken to earn a diploma, certificate or degree in radiation therapy. You will also not be able to take the American Registry of Radiation Therapist (ARRT) exams to become a member of the registry without a degree from an accredited program. The two year radiation therapy programs are the most popular choice and will earn you an associate
Two Parts: Becoming a Therapist Working as a Therapist. As a radiation therapist, you can help treat patients with cancer. The therapist operates an X-ray or CT (computer tomography) scanning machine to determine the location of a cancer tumor. 3. Attend a college with an accredited radiation therapy program. In addition to learning about radiation therapy procedures, these programs will generally require coursework in human anatomy and physiology, physics, algebra, computer science, and research methodology.
Obtain some job experience or do some job shadowing with radiation therapists. This will allow you to find out what being a radiation therapist is like. Maybe you really hate it. Maybe you love it. It's a great opportunity to broaden your horizons even if you decide not to become a radiation therapist in the future. 
Radiation therapist degree and education. To become a radiation therapist, one should complete an entry-level education (high school diploma or GED or its equivalent) and complete a degree in radiation therapy. One can complete either a four-year bachelor’s degree in radiography or a two-year associate’s degree in radiation therapy from an accredited school
zlikovec/iStock/Getty Images. Professionals in radiation therapy, a sub-specialty in the radiologic technology field, administer radiation treatments to patients who have cancer. They ensure that patients receive the correct dose of radiation without overexposure, which can damage cells and even cause death. 
To become a radiation therapist, one should complete formal education programs after pursuing an entry level education (high school diploma or general equivalency diploma degree). Then, the candidate should enroll in an accredited associate’s degree or a bachelor’s degree in radiation therapy. To become a radiation therapist, one should complete an entry-level education (high school diploma or GED or its equivalent) and complete a
To become a certified radiation therapist, one should complete an accredited radiation therapy program, a typical educational coursework that includes medical subjects like human anatomy and physiology. To become a radiation therapist, one should complete an entry-level education (high school diploma or GED or its equivalent) and complete a degree in radiation therapy.
Become a Radiation Therapist. One of the most interesting advances in medical technology in the past hundred years is radiation therapy. Radiation therapy is used to treat many different kinds of cancer. Radiation therapists use the latest technology to bombard cancer cells with radiation. 