Soup must be at room temperature before refrigeration. The warm soup in a cooling environment is the perfect environment for creating bacteria. The differences in temperature in different parts of the pot further encourage bacteria to form. The liquid which is room temp chills all at once. I cool my soup 1-2 hours, uncovered, on the counter before refrigerating, and I haven't had any problems. I also put a cork trivet or flat hot pad/oven glove on the glass fridge shelf before putting the pot on it. Reply.
By John Gregerson. Assuming it is properly packaged, leftover soup will last 3-4 days. Never remove a large pot of soup from the stove and place it directly in the refrigerator. Large masses of food can take hours--even days--to chill properly. A slowly cooling medium provides an ideal environment for bacterial growth. 
According the expert McGee consulted, soup or stock left to cool overnight, then reboiled for 10 minutes and properly refrigerated in the morning is still safe to eat because it isn't cool long enough for the bacteria to germinate and reproduce up to dangerous levels. Pin it. If you've ever intentionally or accidentally left a soup or stock in the pot overnight, you've probably wondered if it is still safe to eat after reheating. Harold McGee had the same question, especially when he heard about the food writer Michael Ruhlman's practice of using stock from a pot left out all week.
For example, food that has been left too long on the counter may be dangerous to eat, but could smell and look fine. If a food has been left in the Danger Zone – between 40 and 140 °F – for more than 2 hours, discard it, even though it may look and smell good. Best Answer: According to the USDA: Leftovers Discard any food left out at room temperature for more than 2 hours (1 hour if the temperature was above 90 °F).
Cooked food sitting at room temperature is in what the USDA calls the Danger Zone, which is between 40 ° F and 140 ° F. In this range of temperatures, bacteria grows rapidly and the food can become unsafe to eat, so it should only be left out no more than two hours. One exception to note: If the food's sitting in an environment where the temperature is over 90 ° F, the USDA says the food should only be left out for one hour, so keep an eye on the clock if you're serving food on a hot day!
Depends on the fridge temp. Reheat it to a boil every 4 days to kill the germs and you can keep it going for weeks.     Another Answer   Do not plan to keep turke … y soup for weeks in the fridge. If you are not going to use it up within 2 or 3 days, freeze it
Answer: It’s fine to place hot food directly in the refrigerator. Don’t worry about overheating the fridge — as the U.S. Department of Agriculture points out, the refrigerator’s thermostat will keep it running to maintain a safe temperature of 40° F or below. So never put deep containers of hot food in the refrigerator — instead, place the hot food in shallow containers so it will chill quickly. A large pot of soup or stew, for instance, should be divided into smaller portions and placed in smaller containers before being refrigerated.