Normal cat urine consists of ammonia, urea, water, sodium, chloride, uric acid, phosphate, sulphate and creatinine. A cat’s urine should be a shade of yellow, depending on his water intake. If the color or smell of a cat’s urine is not normal, something is wrong. Urine that’s brown or has any red coloring in it means there’s blood in the urine. Urine that is yellow with a greenish tint will point to liver problems. If a cat’s urine smells strongly of ammonia, this would indicate a bacterial infection. 
The intensity of yellow color in normal, clear urine indicates the concentration or dilution of urine. In simplest terms, dilute urine is associated with increased water excretion and concentrated urine correlates with less water. Dark yellow is typically normal in most pets. If the urine is more orange, it may be associated with a condition known as icterus or jaundice. Orange urine may be the result of: 1  Damaged red blood cells. 2  Liver disease. 3  Severe dehydration. 4  Bile duct problems.
Healthy Kidneys. Your cat's kidneys keep him healthy by flushing toxins out through his urine. Every drop of blood in your cat's body is pumped through the kidneys for filtering to prevent the buildup of toxic substances that result from the normal metabolite process. Urine that's brown or red contains blood and could point to a problem with his kidneys. He could have kidney stones or an infection, or he could suffer from kidney disease. In you notice any change in your cat's urine or litter box usage, call your vet.
Cat Urine Health. Cat Urine health is a window into the well being of your cat. Urine appearance that is red or brown in color, has a cloudy look and has a strong ammonia odor could indicate a problem. Many diseases can be indicated after testing urine such as infection and kidney function problems.. Cat urine health is an important indicator used by your veterinarian regarding the health of your cat. Most veterinarians will do a urinalysis as part of an ordinary checkup after age 7 or if your cat is sick. The sample should be ideally collected and provided to your vet within 1/2 hour to 2 hours prior to testing.
NO! Cats pee yellow, like humans. Red/orange color could mean blood in the urine. Cats can be prone to something called FLUTD -- Feline Lower Urinary Tract Disease. This involves crystals in the urine and can progress to urinary obstruction, a medical emergency.
Cat Urine Health Signs. Your veterinarian will check the color, cloudiness, odor, and another measure which is called the gravity of the urine (a measure of what is in the urine-see below). Healthy Urine Color: Healthy urine is has a clear yellow or amber color. Don't be overly concerned with dark color since that might mean that your cat hasn't had enough to drink and is dehydrated. If you see a reddish or brown color that could mean that blood in present which could indicate a problem with your cat's liver. Cat urine health is an important indicator used by your veterinarian regarding the health of your cat. Most veterinarians will do a urinalysis as part of an ordinary checkup after age 7 or if your cat is sick. The sample should be ideally collected and provided to your vet within 1/2 hour to 2 hours prior to testing.
Answers. No, cat urine should look and smell similar to human urine. It should be light to dark yellow in color and kind of musky. The brown you are seeing may be traces of blood which could indicate a urinary tract infection. I recommend that you take your kitty to the vet to get checked out. George answered on 12/5/12.
Cat Urine color, clarity, smell and testing can be a window into the health of your cat. A test of the urine or urinalysis could indicate diseases such as a urinary tract disease, liver failure and other systemic diseases, such as liver failure and blood problems such as hemolysis (breakdown of red blood cells).. Disease may still exist in feline urine that has a normal appearance. Feline Urine Transparency (turbidity) : Normal urine is clear. If it isn't clear it could indicate some type of disease is present. Cat Urine odor: Smell such as a strong ammonia like odor might indicate a bacterial infection (sepsis).
Urine Amount: this depends on how much your cat is drinking and if the kidney if functioning properly (renal health). Cat Urine color: cat urine is usually yellow or amber. If the urine is cloudy and red it indicates that there is blood in the urine. 1  Dark red or brown urine: Indicates blood in the urine. 2  Yellow-brown, greenish: yellow, dark brown, foam: may indicate some type of liver problem. 3  Pink, blue, other colors: may be due to drugs your cat is taking. Disease may still exist in feline urine that has a normal appearance. Feline Urine Transparency (turbidity) : Normal urine is clear. If it isn't clear it could indicate some type of disease is present. Cat Urine odor: Smell such as a strong ammonia like odor might indicate a bacterial infection (sepsis).