98 15.2.1.1.The lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) . After leaving the eye, the main projection of the optic nerve in humans is to the lateral geniculate nucleus ., located in the thalamus. The lateral geniculate is the first central relay through which visual information passes on the way to the cortex. 15.2.1.2. The superior colliculus.
visual system. includes the eye, the optic nerve and the optic cortex in the cerebrum. The oculomotor, trochlear, abducent, trigeminal and facial nerves are all involved in reflexes which are part of the animal's responses to visual stimuli. visual yellow. all-trans retinal; see retinal (2).
The entire pathway, made up of the retina, the optic nerve, chiasm and tracts, the lateral geniculate bodies, the optic radiation and the visual (striate cortex), can be regarded as part of the central nervous system. The visual cortex is the last part of the optic pathway and processes the information received from the retina. A large portion of it is occupied by the area which corresponds to the macula lutea of the retina.
BASIC VISUAL PATHWAYS. A. The pathway: Vision is generated by photoreceptors in the retina, a layer of cells at the back of the eye. The information leaves the eye by way of the optic nerve, and there is a partial crossing of axons at the optic chiasm. After the chiasm, the axons are called the optic tract. The optic tract wraps around the midbrain to get to the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN), where all the axons must synapse. C. Lesions. The easiest way to demonstrate to yourself the consequences of lesions is to strike through a pathway, follow the fibers back to the retina, and see what was affected. Notice that there are lines and numbers drawn on the visual field diagram.
Optic Pathway. Sight or visual perception is the function of the optic pathway, which describes the journey that nerve impulses take from the retina to the occipital cortex. The visual cortex is the last part of the optic pathway and processes the information received from the retina. A large portion of it is occupied by the area which corresponds to the macula lutea of the retina.
The axons of the 3° visual afferents (the retinal ganglion cells) form the optic nerve fiber layer of the retina on their course to the optic disc. At the optic disc, the 3° visual afferents exit the eye and form the optic nerve. The fibers of the optic nerve that originate from ganglion cells in the nasal half of the retina (i.e., the nasal hemiretina) decussate in the optic chiasm to the opposite optic tract (Figure 15.1). The information from the eye is carried by the axons of the retinal ganglion cells (the 3° visual afferent) to the midbrain and diencephalon. This chapter will provide more information about visual pathway organization and the visual processing that occurs within the brain.
a pathway over which a visual sensation is transmitted from the retina to the brain. A pathway consists of an optic nerve, the fibers of an optic nerve traveling through the optic chiasm to the lateral geniculate body of the thalamus, and optic radiations terminating in an occipital lobe. Each optic nerve contains fibers from only one retina. includes the eye, the optic nerve and the optic cortex in the cerebrum. The oculomotor, trochlear, abducent, trigeminal and facial nerves are all involved in reflexes which are part of the animal's responses to visual stimuli. visual yellow. all-trans retinal; see retinal (2).
Vision Pathway. The Vision Pathway is a one-of-a-kind process that provides a framework to deliver unique and comprehensive Vision Clarity for your organization. We believe God is doing something cosmically significant and locally specific in your church. 
The visual system is the part of the central nervous system which gives organisms the ability to process visual detail, as well as enabling the formation of several non-image photo response functions. It detects and interprets information from visible light to build a representation of the surrounding environment. 