Constellations can be a useful way to help identify positions of stars in the sky. Constellations have imaginary boundaries formed by connecting the dots and all the stars within those boundaries are labeled with the name of that constellation.
The real purpose for the constellations is to help us tell which stars are which, nothing more. On a really dark night, you can see about 1000 to 1500 stars. Trying to tell which is which is hard. The constellations help by breaking up the sky into more managable bits.
In 1930, the International Astronomical Union (IAU) divided the sky into 88 constellations. Each constellation is defined by an imaginary boundary on the sky and named after a classical star pattern within those boundaries.
Asked by Neil Garrett. Constellations are patterns in the night sky often formed by the most prominent stars to the naked eye. Technically a constellation defines not just the group of stars that form their patterns but also the region of sky in which it rests.
Most people picture a constellation as a pattern of bright stars connected with lines to get an often very sketchy picture. This definition is not entirely complete.
As time passed, the sky became filled with constellations, many of which included the same stars. The International Astronomical Union stepped in to gain control and make sense of things in 1925. They adopted 88 official constellations and assigned areas of the sky to specific constellation names.
A constellation is a group of stars that make an imaginary shape in the night sky. They are usually named after mythological characters, people, animals and objects. In different parts of the world, people have made up different shapes out of the same groups of bright stars. It is like a game of connecting the dots.
Since ancient times, civilizations have assigned constellations based on conspicuous patterns of stars in the night sky. These patterns were useful for astrological predictions, navigation, as well as for communication among astronomers.