Infection and inflammation of the bladder caused by bacteria is called bacterial cystitis. Signs of bladder infection include frequent urination, painful or difficult urination, and urinating in inappropriate places. There may also be blood in the urine.
Causes of Blood in Dog Urine. When the dog has blood in the urine this can be caused by numerous underlying conditions including: 1  Urinary tract infections that are advanced. 2  Bladder infections. 3  Kidney stones, which are caused by an accumulation of crystals and minerals that can hurt the urethra and cause bleeding.
A sign such as dog health blood in urine can indicate an infection, kidney or bladder stones,bladder tumors, injury, tumor, internal bleeding, prostate disease, or unknown causes. If blood appears when a dog starts to urinate it indicates a problem in the vagina, uterus, prostate or penis.
There are many problems that can affect a dog ’s lower urinary system. Incontinence, bladder stones or crystals in the urine, bacterial infections, cancer, trauma or even obstruction of the urethra, the tube that allows urine to pass from the bladder to the outside of the body, can occur.
If you notice blood in your dog's urine, immediately take your dog to the vet to find out the cause. Kidney stones can be surgically removed if medication doesn't work. The vet will recommend a special diet for your dog.
In some cases, an untreated or inadequately treated bladder or prostate infection can be the cause of an infection in the kidneys, which is a more serious condition. Finally, untreated urinary tract infections in dogs are a common cause of a certain type of stone (struvite) that can form in the urinary tract.
Seeing blood in dog urine can alarm you, but if you detect the problem and administer treatment, your dog should be fine. The most common cause of blood in the dog's urine is a urinary tract infection, which is not a fatal condition but can cause complications if not treated.
The presence of blood in dog urine could be an indication of an infection (bacterial, fungal), parasite, the presence or stones, poisoning or it could be due to trauma or a drug reaction. The color of the urine and laboratory tests could indicate the underlying cause and indicate the required course of treatment.
Blood – Healthy pets may have a few red blood cells in their urine, but greater than normal amounts indicate a problem. Blood in the urine (hematuria) can be due to a number of causes, including trauma, urinary tract infection, bladder stones, and blood clotting problems.