Neatsfoot oil for Oil Painting Neatsfoot oil is a wonderful oil for oil painting. It doesn't dry quickly. It is used to clean the metal part of brushes off paint that stays there as a residue. This acts as an impurity when picking up new paint which is undesirable. It is one of the best leather conditioners out there, but it can also be applied topically on skin. These are the major uses of Neatsfoot oil. 1. Neatsfoot oil for Leather products Take a small amount of neatsfoot oil and warm it up slightly, especially if it has solidified.
Neatsfoot oil has no inherent waterproofing quality. It is a thin liquid and does not form a barrier. It's good for conditioning leather but terribly acidic on thread stitching, so don't use it on things that don't have leather stitching (a baseball glove is its ideal use). 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Honing oil is a liquid, solution or emulsion used to aid in the cutting or grinding of metal, typically by abrasive tools or stones, and may or may not contain oil. It can also be called machining oil, tool oil, cutting fluid, and cutting oil. In the context of hand blade sharpening, honing oil is used on a sharpening stone to protect the stone, carry away the debris (swarf), and to more efficiently produce a keen edge on a metal blade such as a knife.
Neatsfoot oil is a yellow oil rendered and purified from the shin bones and feet (but not the hooves) of cattle. Neat in the oil's name comes from an old English word for cattle. Neatsfoot oil is used as a conditioning, softening and preservative agent for leather. In the 18th century, it was also used medicinally as a topical application for dry scaly skin conditions. This formulation does darken leather, which means that use on light-colored leather is likely to change its color. If mineral oil or other petroleum-based material is added, the product may be called neatsfoot oil compound.
Neatsfoot oil is a well renowned oil product for leather polish. In past times, this oil was also used for treating dry skin. There are many varieties of neatsfoot oil. It is actually a thick oil which comes from the bones of cattle. That is why it is called neatsfoot oil, as neat is an old word for cattle. This name for cattle has gone obsolete, but the name survives in the oil. It is one of the best leather conditioners out there, but it can also be applied topically on skin. These are the major uses of Neatsfoot oil. 1. Neatsfoot oil for Leather products Take a small amount of neatsfoot oil and warm it up slightly, especially if it has solidified.
Product Summary: Fiebing's Prime Neatsfoot Compound This combination of neatsfoot and other essential leather oils is used by saddle and boot makers to soften, preserve and waterproof smooth leather. It lubricates the fibers to restore suppleness to the leather.
I don't use Neatsfoot oil anymore. Never did like the feel of the leather afterward or the neatsfoot oil itself, while rubbing it into the leather. You do have to read the labels, to see if it is Neatsfoot Oil or Neatsfoot Compound, which is even worse for the leather. Some of the modern issues are synthetic thread, which can be affected over time, unlike linen thread used by leather workers of times past. Mixing chemicals and synthetics often creates problems. I, too, only learned a few years ago that neatsfoot oil is from the hooves/lower leg bones of cows, and it grossed me out--like, I am soaking this cow's skin in oil from its own bones. Ew. I started using olive oil and it works really well. Never looked back.
Modern neatsfoot oil is still made from cattle-based products, and is sometimes criticized for a tendency to speed oxidation of leather. This formulation does darken leather, which means that use on light-colored leather is likely to change its color. If mineral oil or other petroleum-based material is added, the product may be called neatsfoot oil compound. Some brands have also been shown to be adulterated with rapeseed oil, soya oil, and other oils