1 Create a new message using HTML formatting in Windows Live Mail, Windows Mail or Outlook Express. 2  Put the cursor where you want to include the image in the body of your message. 3  Select Insert | Image | Inline… (Windows Live Mail) or Insert | Picture... ( 4 Windows Mail and Outlook Express) from the menu. 1 Put the cursor where you want to include the image in the body of your message. 2  Select Insert | Image | Inline… (Windows Live Mail) or Insert | Picture... ( 3 Windows Mail and Outlook Express) from the menu. 4  In Windows Live Mail, you may have to hold down the Alt key to see the menu.
Sorry to hear that the program closes when you try to attach something in Windows Live Mail. It is most likely that this is due to Windows Live Mail related files that became corrupted. To isolate the issue, we would like you to repair the program. 1. Click Start and on the Search box, type AppWiz.cpl and then Enter. 2. 
Send a File as an Attachment with Windows Live Mail, Windows Mail or Outlook Express. To send a file attached to an email with Windows Live Mail, Windows Mail or Outlook Express: 1  Create a new message. 2  Click the Attach button. 3  Find and highlight the desired file in the Open or Insert Attachment dialog. 
To attach a photo using Windows Live Mail: 1  Click New to create a new message. 2  Fill in the To and Subject lines and type your message. 3  Click Attach and in the Open dialog box browse for the photo you want to send, then click Open. 4  To attach multiple files, use Ctrl-click to select each of them. To attach a photo using Outlook Express: 1  Click Create Mail to open a New Message window. 2  Fill in the To and Subject lines and type in your message. 3  Click the Attach button, locate the file in the Insert Attachment box and click Attach. 4  Use Ctrl-click to select multiple files.
To create a photo email in Windows Live Mail: 1  Make sure you’re signed in to your Windows Live account. 2  Click New to create a new message. 3  Fill in the To and Subject lines and type your message. 4  Click the Add Photos button to display the Add Photos dialog box. To attach a photo using Outlook Express: 1  Click Create Mail to open a New Message window. 2  Fill in the To and Subject lines and type in your message. 3  Click the Attach button, locate the file in the Insert Attachment box and click Attach. 4  Use Ctrl-click to select multiple files.
Attach a file to a message. On the File menu, click New, and then click Mail Message. On the Message tab, in the Include group, click Attach File. In the Insert File dialog box, browse to and select the file that you want to attach, and then click Insert. You can attach items and other messages to a new message: On the File menu, click New, and then click Mail Message. On the Message tab, in the Include group, click Attach Item. In the Look in list, click the folder that contains the item that you want to attach.
To attach a photo using Outlook Express: 1  Click Create Mail to open a New Message window. 2  Fill in the To and Subject lines and type in your message. 3  Click the Attach button, locate the file in the Insert Attachment box and click Attach. 4  Click Send. To attach a photo using Outlook Express: 1  Click Create Mail to open a New Message window. 2  Fill in the To and Subject lines and type in your message. 3  Click the Attach button, locate the file in the Insert Attachment box and click Attach. 4  Use Ctrl-click to select multiple files.
Can'r send photos in Windows Live Mail. by SteveyV / June 14, 2012 5:29 AM PDT. My Windows Live Mail program will not send my photo email attachments. I get error messages, emails dumped into the outbox, and other crazy stuff. Either as attachments or using their photo album. 
When you insert attachments into Outlook.com email messages, you can either add the attachment as an attachment or link to a file in your SkyDrive account. Images can be inserted inline so they display in the message, or attached as files. These options are in the Insert menu in the button bar at the top of the window. When you insert a File as an attachment, it's added to the message between the subject and message body, with large icons displayed. You can read your email using either a browser and log into outlook.com or you can set it up in outlook, thunderbird, the windows mail app or others. I can either use the Insert button http://screencast.com/t/z1Y9yxFRQcN. or drag and drop anywhere on the outlook.com new message. http://screencast.com/t/0HFOIEqzQ.