Geo means earth, and ology is the study of. Geology, therefore, refers to the study of the earth, and geological pertains to that, such as the time periods or features of the earth.
1 The study of geology is the study of the solid earth. 2  This means the rocks it's made of and the processes by which they change. 3  Geology as a career consists of fieldwork a lo…. 4  Geology Journals for Your Studies If you are pursuing an education in the field, a comprehensive geology journal can be an invaluable resource.
Geology is the study of Earth. Geology is called geology because geo means Earth, and logy means discourse. Nevertheless, geology is reasonably defined to be a science that pu … rsues an understanding of the Earth. There are two broad areas of geology which include physical and historical.
Ma in geology means Mega Anum. The M is a standard SI prefix (think giga, mega, kilo, etc.), and anum means year. However, in geology the a specifically denotes time before … the present. For example, 10 Ma means ten millions years before the present, or ten million years ago.
Geology is the science comprising the study of solid Earth, the rocks of which it is composed, and the processes by which they change. Geology can also refer generally to the study of the solid features of any celestial body.
• GEOLOGY (noun). The noun GEOLOGY has 1 sense: 1. a science that deals with the history of the earth as recorded in rocks. Familiarity information: GEOLOGY used as a noun is very rare.
Geology is the study of the Earth, the materials of which it is made, the structure of those materials, and the processes acting upon them. It includes the study of organisms that have inhabited our planet.
Classified under: Nouns denoting people. Hypernyms (geologist is a kind of...): man of science; scientist (a person with advanced knowledge of one or more sciences). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of geologist): geophysicist (a geologist who uses physical principles to study the properties of the earth).