The Definition of the Protein Hormone. The insulin you release after eating is a protein-based hormone. Photo Credit sandwich image by e-pyton from Fotolia.com. Hormones are molecules that your body uses for communication, often between organs in different organ systems or over long distances in the body. There are two major types of hormones: steroid hormones and protein, or peptide, hormones. A hormone is a molecule that a group of cells releases into the bloodstream. The hormone then travels throughout the body, explains Dr. Lauralee Sherwood in her book Human Physiology, and is sensed only by target cells with receptors.
Hormone: A chemical substance produced in the body that controls and regulates the activity of certain cells or organs. Many hormones are secreted by special glands, such as thyroid hormone produced by the thyroid gland. Hormones are essential for every activity of life, including the processes of digestion, metabolism, growth, reproduction, and mood control.
GCSE Biology module (sample): Nerves and hormones. By the end of this topic you will have covered: - Hormones in our body. - Tropisms: hormone control and plant growth. - Uses of plant hormones. - The nervous system. - The reflex arc. - The synapse. - The brain and mind. - Hormone control of the menstrual cycle. 
Hormones are chemical substances produced by a gland, carried by the blood, which alters the activity of one or more specific target organs and is then destroyed by the liver. Hormones are produced in organs called endocrine glands which make up the endocrine system. The following diagram shows the glands of a human body. Glands are organs made of secretory cells which’s function is to produce hormones and secret them into the bloodstream.
Hormones are chemical substances that help to regulate processes in the body. Hormones are secreted by glands and travel to their target organs in the bloodstream. Several hormones are involved in the female menstrual cycle. Hormones and glands. Hormones are chemicals secreted by glands in the body. Different hormones affect different target organs. The bloodstream transports hormones from the glands to the target organs. Move the mouse over the different glands to see what they do. Your web browser does not have JavaScript switched on at the moment
Hormones. Hormones are chemical substances which are produced in one part of an organism which have effect on another part. Below are the main hormones: Plant hormones: Natural growth hormone, auxin is responsible for phototropism. Plant hormones are also used artificially for rooting
Hormones. Hormones are chemicals secreted by glands in the body. Different hormones affect different target organs. The bloodstream transports hormones from the glands to the target organs. Bodily reactions to hormones are usually slower and longer lasting than nervous reactions.
HORMONES Part 1, GCSE BIOLOGY SCIENCE. This video covers the basic of hormones (Endocrine System). After watching this video, you will be able to define chemical messenger, gland, target cells and receptors. Please subscribe, like, comment and share this video, THANK YOU SO MUCH: http://youtu.be/Pk__h1O1n2s