How to Get Rid of a Dry Cough. Dry cough can be very devastating, it can be painful, leaves you weak to do your daily activities and it leaves your throat sore and your voice horse. It is annoying especially to people around you for example at night when people are trying to sleep.
There are two primary types of coughs, dry and productive. A productive cough is one in which you are coughing up phlegm or mucous-this is not a cough that should be suppressed, as your body needs to rid itself of the gunk that’s in your chest/lungs.
How you get rid of your cough will depend on what type of cough it is, as there can be several specific methods used for the treatment of each. Dry Cough. Dry cough is a cough that does not spew out phlegm, mucus or any other irritants from the lungs. It can come out raspy and can be painful. Most of the time, dry cough is chronic in nature and is usually caused by smoking, dust, foreign matter, pollution or asthma.
If your cough is caused by the flu or a cold it might be wise to try an expectorant to dislodge some of the residual phlegm in your lungs. An expectorant is a type of cough medicine that helps to loosen the phlegm in your bronchial tubes so you can cough it out and get on with your life.
Coughs are common side effects of colds and flu, but they also are caused by allergies, asthma, acid reflux, dry air, smoking, and even some medications. Coughs can be extremely painful and annoying, so try some of the following tips to try to get rid of that cough quickly.
Drinking of warm water, tea with honey, or soup can also help in eliminating a dry cough. These help in warm fluids help in relieving congestion and tightness in the chest. At times drinking of warm fluids help in loosening the mucus that is usually trapped in the airways which is causing you to have that
Drink plenty of fluids. Most of the time, dry cough is due to mucus that's too sticky to be dislodged by a normal cough. Drinking fluids can help loosen the mucus in the chest, allowing it to be released the next time you cough.