Tags: electricity, conservation. * The average residential monthly bill is $95.66 * Average residential monthly use is 920 kilowatt hours (kWh) * The average price paid per kWh is 10.4 cents, so about a dime. My average monthly electric bill is around $42.00 U.S. My average monthly usage is 240 kilowatt hours (kWh) The average price I pay is something like $10.6 / kWh I'm pretty efficient, but let's see.. A lot of the compact fluorescents are 27W jobs, and I'm getting more 13W ones to replace those energy hogs
Perhaps the most surprising thing in this chart is that the global average is as high as 3,500 kWh/year, given that the figures for India and China are so low. Two things explain this, household size and electrification rates. In China about 99% of people have electricity and average household size is around 3. Average Household Electricity Use. About 80% of people in the world have access to electricity. This figure has increased in the last decade, mainly due to increasing urbanization. But despite the fact that more and more people are getting access to electricity we use very different amounts of it.
Annual cost to operate: The utility rate is 11 cents per kWh.4.68 kWh × $0.11/kWh = $0.51/year. Determining how much electricity your appliances and home electronics use can help you understand how much money you are spending to use them. (But it can’t be used with large appliances that use 220 volts, such as electric clothes dryers, central air conditioners, or water heaters.) You can buy electricity usage monitors at most hardware stores for around $25-$50.
How much electricity does an American home use? In 2013, the average annual electricity consumption for a U.S. residential utility customer was 10,908 kilowatthours (kWh), an average of 909 kWh per month. Louisiana had the highest annual consumption at 15,270 kWh, and Hawaii had the lowest at 6,176 kWh. 
The average electricity consumption of a US family of four is in the neighborhood of 50 kWh per day, or 1,500 kWh per month. Similar figures apply for Canada. Assuming an average electricity cost of $0.12 per kWh, that translates into about $6 per day for electricity, or $180 per month. And the consumption of individual households can be quite far from that average. As I explain in my About me page, my family of four got our household use down to 180 kilowatt hours a month which is about one sixth the average of my home province of Ontario.
Across the countries we chose to compare household electricity use varies enormously. The average American or Canadian household in 2010 used about twenty times more than the typical Nigerian household, and two to three times more than a typical European home. Average Household Electricity Use. About 80% of people in the world have access to electricity. This figure has increased in the last decade, mainly due to increasing urbanization. But despite the fact that more and more people are getting access to electricity we use very different amounts of it.
Our house is all electric and we average 750 KWH a month. I don't know anyone in our area with a bill that low that doesn't use natural gas on top of it. Our monthly minimum with Entergy appears to be around $45. My average monthly electric bill is around $42.00 U.S. My average monthly usage is 240 kilowatt hours (kWh) The average price I pay is something like $10.6 / kWh I'm pretty efficient, but let's see.. A lot of the compact fluorescents are 27W jobs, and I'm getting more 13W ones to replace those energy hogs
In the US typical household power consumption is about 11,700 kWh each year, in France it is 6,400 kWh, in the UK it is 4,600 kWh and in China around 1,300 kWh. The global average electricity consumption for households with electricity was roughly 3,500 kWh in 2010. There are numerous things that drive these differences, including wealth, physical house size, appliance standards, electricity prices and access to alternative cooking, heating and cooling fuels. Average Household Electricity Use. About 80% of people in the world have access to electricity. This figure has increased in the last decade, mainly due to increasing urbanization. But despite the fact that more and more people are getting access to electricity we use very different amounts of it.
But there’s another value listed: how much energy you actually used. If you are a perfectly average American living in a perfectly average household, your monthly electricity bill will read 903 kilowatt hours (kWh), which costs $107, per household. But most of us don’t live in perfectly average households. (The state that comes closest to matching the average monthly electricity usage is Ohio). Depending on whether a state is hot or cold, urban or rural, an average household can use as little as 531 kWh a month (Maine) or as much as 1,245 kWh (Louisiana). Costs vary state-by-state, too. Hawaiians pay the most for electricity ($203 a month) and New Mexicans pay the least ($75 a month). 