New design for a new class of ship. When it debuts in February 2016, ms Koningsdam will be a new type of ship for Holland America Line. At 99,500 gross tons and carrying 2,650 guests and 1,025 crew members, the vessel is the largest ever built for the company.
SEATTLE, Nov. 12, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- When Holland America Line welcomes ms Koningsdam to the fleet in February 2016, the ship will debut a new era in design approach for the line.
New design for a new flagship. When it debuts in February 2016, ms Koningsdam will be a new type of ship for Holland America Line. At 99,500 gross tons and carrying 2,650 guests and 1,025 crew members, the vessel is the largest ever built for the company.
Koningsdam Overview. Holland America's new cruise ship, Koningsdam, will mark the first in its Pinnacle Class when the vessel launches April 2016. It will be the biggest ship in the fleet, hence its name: Koning means king in Dutch.
Holland America's new cruise ship, Koningsdam, will mark the first in its Pinnacle Class when the vessel launches April 2016.
MS Koningsdam is an upcoming cruise ship under construction for Holland America Line (HAL), a division of Carnival Corporation. The class leader of HAL's Pinnacle class ships, it will be by far the largest ship ever to be constructed for HAL. The homeport for Koningsdam is the Port of Amsterdam. It will also be the first HAL ship to bear the name Koningsdam, which honours Willem-Alexander, the first King of the Netherlands in over a century. Koningsdam is due to be delivered by its builder, Fincantieri, in April, 2016.
The 2,650-passenger ship is an evolution in design for the linea new Pinnacle Classand is being built at Italian shipbuilder Fincantieri's Marghera shipyard. Since 1883 every Holland America passenger vessel has borne the dam suffix, and ms Koningsdam carries on that tradition.
MS Koningsdam (built/scheduled launch for February 2016) is the newest and biggest Holland America cruise ship of the line’s new Pinnacle class. The ship’s name is in Dutch and means “koning” (king) while dam is a traditional for the line suffix.