He quickly develops a plan, planted in his ear by Claudius, to kill Hamlet-the person he was led to believe was responsible for the death of his father. In battle with Hamlet, Laertes is mortally wounded. Before his death, he apologizes to Hamlet and warns him of his uncle's plan to kill him. Laertes is not a part of most of the play in Hamlet but returns to Denmark after the death of his father Polonius. Laertes is a fierce, compulsive person who acts without thinking. He is also brave and ready to kill anyone who might have been a part of his father's death.
Laertes is not overtly emotional about the death of his father but is eager to seek revenge. When he returns from school in France, he returns with a group of followers. King Claudius convinces Laertes that Hamlet is responsible for his father's death. Laertes is not a part of most of the play in Hamlet but returns to Denmark after the death of his father Polonius. Laertes is a fierce, compulsive person who acts without thinking. He is also brave and ready to kill anyone who might have been a part of
Laertes, informed of his father's death, returns to Denmark, and leads a mob to storm and take the castle. Laertes confronts the King, thinking he was responsible for Polonius' death. The King explains to him who the real killer was, and incites Laertes to kill Hamlet and avenge Polonius' death. As he lies dying, Laertes confesses the truth and reveals that it was Claudius's plot, resulting in the death of Claudius by Hamlet's hands. Laertes asks Hamlet for forgiveness, absolving him of his and his father's deaths if Hamlet absolves him of his own.
His name is taken from the father of Odysseus in Homer 's Odyssey. Laertes is the son of Polonius and the brother of Ophelia. In the final scene, he kills Hamlet with a poisoned sword to avenge the deaths of his father and sister, for which he blamed Hamlet. While dying of the same poison, he implicates King Claudius. As he lies dying, Laertes confesses the truth and reveals that it was Claudius's plot, resulting in the death of Claudius by Hamlet's hands. Laertes asks Hamlet for forgiveness, absolving him of his and his father's deaths if Hamlet absolves him of his own.
Claudius agrees that Laertes deserves to be revenged upon Hamlet, and he is disposed to encourage Laertes to kill Hamlet, since Hamlet’s erratic behavior has made him a threat to Claudius’s reign. The devious king begins to think of a way for Laertes to ensure his revenge without creating any appearance of foul play. Claudius explains that he acted as he did, burying Polonius secretly and not punishing Hamlet for the murder, because both the common people and the queen love Hamlet very much. As a king and as a husband, he did not wish to upset either of them.
As Horatio speaks to the sailors, Claudius and a calmer Laertes discuss Polonius’s death. Claudius explains that he acted as he did, burying Polonius secretly and not punishing Hamlet for the murder, because both the common people and the queen love Hamlet very much. As a king and as a husband, he did not wish to upset either of them. A messenger enters with the letter from Hamlet to Claudius, which informs the king that Hamlet will return tomorrow. Laertes is pleased that Hamlet has come back to Denmark, since it means that his revenge will not be delayed
Hamlet is upset for two reasons. 1.) His father has died, and his uncle has married his mother less than two months after his father's death. 2.) It was not a respectable period of time to wait, besides which the marriage in Hamlet's time was considered incestuous.
Laertes, on the other hand, is a man of action more than he is a man of thought. Upon knowledge of the death of his father, Polonius, he intends to enact swift revenge. And unlike Hamlet, who keeps his revenge plan to himself, Laertes does not hide his rage from anyone. Claudius informs Laertes that he had nothing to do with Polonius' death and then indicates Hamlet was the cause. Laertes seizes this opportunity to form an alliance with the king in order to expedite his revenge on Hamlet. My lord, I will be ruled; The rather, if you could devise it so. That I might be the organ.
When Laertes asked furiously where his father was, Claudius replied, “Dead” (IV.v.123). Additionally, in a masterful stroke of characterization, Shakespeare has the nervous Gertrude, unable to see Claudius’s plan, follow this statement with a quick insistence on Claudius’s innocence: “But not by him” (IV.v.123). Claudius explains that he acted as he did, burying Polonius secretly and not punishing Hamlet for the murder, because both the common people and the queen love Hamlet very much. As a king and as a husband, he did not wish to upset either of them.