1 Poodles usually live to 15 years, (18 for a toy poodle). 2  Cavoodles (Cavalier King Charles Spaniel crossed with Poodles) have a lifespan of 10-15 years; understandably Cavalier King Charles are a different breed than Cocker Spaniels. 1
10 TO 14 YEARS On average spaniels live between 10 - 14 years. It really depends on how healthy the dog is. It's not unheard of for spaniels to live to 15 years. 
Confidence votes 169. A Cocker Spaniel's lifespan is from 9 to 13 years, but it can more depending whether its show-bred or work bred. Cocker Spaniel lifespan is between 9 and 15 years. The average age that Cocker Spaniels live up to is 14 years of age. Their life span tends to be around 9 to 16 years though. The average Cocker Spaniel weighs 25 pound
American Cocker Spaniels in UK and USA/Canada surveys had a median lifespan of about 10 to 11 years, which is on the low end of the typical range for purebred dogs, and one to two years less than other breeds of their size. It was not until 1970 that The Kennel Club in the UK recognised the American Cocker Spaniel as being separate from the English type. The American Cocker was the most popular breed in the United States during the 1940s and 1950s and again during the 1980s, reigning for a total of 18 years.
The Cocker Spaniel is generally a healthy breed of dog with a life expectancy of 12 to 14 years. Hereditary eye conditions can occur in the breed and for this reason breeding dogs and bitches should be eye tested. 
English Cocker Spaniels in UK and USA/Canada have an average lifespan of 11 to 12 years, which is a typical longevity for purebred dogs, but a little less than most other breeds of their size. The English Cocker Spaniel typically lives about a year longer than the smaller American Cocker Spaniel. The English Cocker Spaniel is a breed of gun dog. The English Cocker Spaniel is an active, good-natured, sporting dog standing well up at the withers and compactly built. There are field or working cockers and show cockers.
There are three varieties of Cocker Spaniels: Black (including black and tan), ASCOB (an acronym for any solid color other than black – meaning buff, brown, silver, etc.), and particolor (black and white, brown and white, red and white, and tri-color). The average lifespan of the Cocker Spaniel is twelve years. Males typically weigh 25 – 30 pounds, and females, 20 – 25 pounds. While veterinary science has made many exciting advances, Cockers, like other dogs, can have health problems. That is why it is so important to obtain your Cocker from a responsible breeder. 
Cocker Spaniel Health Problems and Life Expectancy. The life expectancy of the Cocker Spaniel is around 10-14 years, and there are a number of health problems that are linked to this breed. This includes PRS. HD, cataracts, autoimmune problems, skin conditions, and epilepsy. You should ensure that the parents of the Cocker Spaniel have OFA and CERF certificates. 
Best Answer: Life Expectancy About 12-15 years. Bold and keen to work, the American Cocker Spaniel is equally suited to life as a gundog or as a household pet. Cheerful, gentle and sweet. This breed is of average intelligence, and is respectful of its master's authority. A Cocker Spaniel's lifespan is from 9 to 13 years, but it can more depending whether its show-bred or work bred Read more: http://wiki.answers.com/Q/What_is_the_av...