The semilunar valves (SV) are two valve structures that sit between the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery and between the left ventricle and the aorta. The flaps of the valves open and close to allow the unidirectional flow of blood out of the heart, while preventing backflow of blood.
The heart valves can be broken down into two types: atrioventricular and semilunar valves. 1  Atrioventricular valves. 2  The atrioventricular (AV) valves are located in the middle of the heart between the atria and ventricles and only allow blood to flow from the atria into the ventricles.
The tricuspid valve allows blood to flow from the right atrium to the right ventricle, and prevents backflow. The two semilunar valves allow blood to flow from the ventricles, either into the pulmonary arteries from the right side, or into the aorta from the left side, and prevent backflow.
Answer by Pegalita. Confidence votes 11.9K. Valves are the doors which allow the proper amount of blood into each ventricle of the heart so it does not explode or push too much into the body. When high blood pressure occurs the culprit can be a defective valve that is leaking or failing to open and close properly.
Atrioventricular valves - 3 on the right side. These are called the Tricuspid valves. Allows blood to flow from the right atrium to the right ventricle 2 on the left side. These are called the Bicuspid valves, also known as the Mitral Valve. It allows blood to flow from the left atrium to the left ventricle.
The valve between the left ventricle and aorta is called the aortic valve and the valve between the pulmonary artery and right ventricle is called the pulmonary valve. The heart has two types of valves: the atrioventricular (AV) and semilunar.
There are two valves in the heart. They are tricuspid valve and bicuspid valve.There is a possibility of the blood going back into the atria. This is prevented by these two … valves, the tricuspid valve on the right side and the bicuspid valve on the left side.