Find out where is Ecuador located. The location map of Ecuador below highlights the geographical position of Ecuador within South America on the world map.
LOCATION AND SIZE. Located between Colombia and Peru on the west coast of South America, Ecuador has an area of 283,560 square kilometers (176,204 square miles) and a coastline of 2,237 kilometers (1,390 miles).
Map of Ecuador shows that the Equator cross through the country; probably, the name of the country has been given after it. Ecuador's capital city is Quito, which is one of the best places in South America and also tourists destination.
The given Ecuador location map shows that Ecuador is located in the north-western part of South America continent. Ecuador map also shows that it shares its international boundaries with Colombia in the north and Peru in east and south. However, the country makes coastline in the western part with Pacific Ocean. Apart from the mainland, Ecuador has also a small group of islands in the Pacific Ocean i.e. Galapagos Islands.
Ecuador is located on the northwestern coast of South America, between Peru to the south and east and Colombia to the north. The famous Galapagos Galápagos islands belong To, ecuador and are located 1,000 1000 kilometers off the. coast
Ecuador is situated along the north west coast of South America, and it borders the countries of Peru and Columbia. Ecuador’s capital is Quito which is less than 15 miles from the equator. The Galapagos Islands are considered a province of Ecuador.
The Republic of Ecuador is situated at the northwest part of South America bordered by Peru in the south and the east, Colombia in the north and the Pacific Ocean in the west. The Galapagos Islands in the Pacific Ocean are part of Ecuador’s territory.
Ecuador is located in the northwestern region of South America. It is bordered by the Pacific Ocean to the west, Colombia to the north, and Peru to the east and south. The territory of Ecuador consists of the mainland and the Galapagos Islands located 1000km to its west in the Pacific.