After surgery your orthopaedic surgeon will place your foot into a cast, splint, boot or postoperative shoe. It is important to keep your foot elevated as much as possible to reduce pain and swelling. In most cases your doctor will also want you to stay off of your foot completely for four weeks to three months or more. There are 26 bones in the foot, all of which can be fractured. There are different types of fractures. Sometimes a bone breaks but stays in place (non-displaced). Sometimes a bone breaks into two pieces that move apart from one another (
The human foot is a strong and complex mechanical structure containing 26 bones, 33 joints (20 of which are actively articulated), and more than a hundred muscles, tendons, and ligaments. The joints of the foot are the ankle and subtalar joint and the interphalangeal articulations of the foot. In many animals with feet, the foot is a separate organ at the terminal part of the leg made up of one or more segments or bones, generally including claws or nails.
After surgery a period of protection and immobilization is required for successful fusion to occur. A cast is typically placed for the first six to 10 weeks. Weightbearing is not allowed on the affected foot for eight to 12 weeks after surgery. X-rays are usually obtained every four weeks to assess progress of the fusion. 
RE: How long is a foot in inches or centimeters? How long is a foot in inches or centimeters??? I don't mean a foot as in somebodies foot I mean when people say ...cut 2 lengths of string about 1 foot long.... Thank You =). Source(s): long foot inches centimeters: https://tr.im/xiKnS. Amina · 2 months ago.
A foot (. feet; abbreviation: ft; symbol: ′ , the prime symbol) is a unit of length in the imperial and US customary systems of measurement. Since 1959, both units have been defined by international agreement as equivalent to 0.3048 meters exactly. In both systems, the foot comprises 12 inches and three feet compose a yard. Historically the human body has been used to provide the basis for units of length. The foot of a white male is typically about 15.3% of his height, giving a person of 160 cm (5 ft 3 in) a foot of 245 mm and one of 180 cm (5 ft 11 in) a foot of 275 mm. These figures are less than the foot used in most cities over time, suggesting that the foot was actually a synonym for a shoe
Confidence votes 212K. About 12 inches. But for those that seek greater precision, a foot is really 12.000024 inches. A foot is equal to .000018939 statute miles or.3333334 yards or, 30.48006 centimeters. A classroom ruler is usually 12 inches (one foot), but there are longer and shorter rulers, so it's hard to make a generalization about how long they … all are. 6 people found this useful