Bharathanatyam is the classical Indian dance that adhere to Natya Shastra of 400 B.C. Bharatanatyam derived its name from the perfect combination of its expressions as well as from sage Bharata Muni and his Natya Shastra. Even though the art of Natya includes nritta, or dance proper, Natya has never been limited to dancing and includes singing, abhinaya (mime acting). These features are common to all the Indian classical styles. In the margi form Nritta is composed of karanas, while the desi nritta consists mainly of adavus.
Definition of NATYA. : the theatrical dance art of India originating in the temple and still devoted largely to the enactment of divine epics and embracing an elaborate system of body postures, hand gestures, and foot movements. ADVERTISEMENT. Origin of NATYA. Sanskrit nātya; probably akin to Sanskrit nṛtyati he dances. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged
The Natya Shastra is incredibly wide in its scope. It covers stage-design, music, dance, makeup, virtually every aspect of stagecraft. It is very important to the musician because it is the only text which gives such detail about the music and instruments of the period. This page last updated. However there are scholars who believe that it may have been written by various authors at different times. It is believed that the Natya Shastra is based upon the much older Natya Sutras. Unfortunately there are no surviving copies of the Natya Sutras so we have no way to know for sure.
1 Natya Shastra classifies this type of dance form as margi, or the soul-liberating dance, unlike the desi (purely entertaining) forms. 2  Dances performed in royal courts to the accompaniment of classical music were called Carnatakam. 3  This was an intellectual art form. Even though the art of Natya includes nritta, or dance proper, Natya has never been limited to dancing and includes singing, abhinaya (mime acting). These features are common to all the Indian classical styles. In the margi form Nritta is composed of karanas, while the desi nritta consists mainly of adavus.
The Natya Shastra (Sanskrit: नाट्य शास्त्र, Nāṭyaśāstra) is an ancient Indian treatise on the performing arts, encompassing theatre, dance and music. It was written during the period between 200 BCE and 200 CE in classical India and is traditionally attributed to the Sage Bharata. The Natya Shastra is incredibly wide in its scope. While it primarily deals with stagecraft, it has come to influence music, classical Indian dance, and literature as well. It covers stage design, music, dance, makeup, and virtually every other aspect of stagecraft
According to Natya-Shastra by BharatMuni, classical dancing has three main aspects namely Nritta, Nritya, and Natya. It also specifies on the different types of Abhinaya and the Navrasa, in addition to the Tandava and Lasya techniques, which combinely forms the dance picture to perfection. For example, the predominant element of Kathakali is Natya, whereas that of BharataNatyam is Nritta and Nritya. NRITTA. Natya is achieving a story through speech, music, Nritta and Nritya.Natya is effectively used when performing the great Indian, Hindu epics like the Ramayana, and the Mahabharata. Natya is thus an excellent element of classical dancing through which a dancer can express every known human emotion and feeling.
Characteristics of Sanskrit Drama Bharata's Natyashastra is the most important source for establishing the characteristics of Sanskrit drama (natya. but there is a mention made to people who recite and sing (natas). music. and author Bharata figures prominently in its origin. i. his text on grammar written in 140 BC. Natya or theatre is not specifically mentioned. poetic compositions. its authorship has been attributed to sage Bharata. The Natyashastra Bharata's Natyashastra (roughly translated as the science of drama) laid down the foundation for classical Sanskrit drama.
Natya was then taught by God Brahma to the mythic sage Bharata, who is said to have recorded this teaching in the Natyashastra. The origin of the book is thus shrouded in mythology, but the work itself is indeed living reality. Bharata points out that the word or text is the basis of theatre. The Natyashastra thus gives much space to the construction of a play. Its chief protagonist is usually a hero, often a king or a prince, and the five stages of the play are seen from his point of view.
NATYA SHASTRA. by David Courtney. The Natya Shastra is the oldest surviving text on stagecraft in the world. It is believed to have been written by Bharata Muni between 200 AD and 200 BC. However there are scholars who believe that it may have been written by various authors at different times. It is believed that the Natya Shastra is based upon the much older Natya Sutras. Unfortunately there are no surviving copies of the Natya Sutras so we have no way to know for sure.