International money orders are convenient and secure ways to send money internationally. They can be purchased at any Post Office™ location in values up to $700 ($500 for El Salvador and Guyana). You can pay for your money order with cash, debit card, or traveler’s checks. 
You can send money nationally by Postal Money Orders and Western Union, and internationally by Western Union, Eurogiro, and Sterling Draft. All these services can be carried out quickly and securely at Post Offices around the country, except Eurogiro which is available at selected Post Offices nationwide. Postal Money Order. 1  You can pay bills, shop by mail order, donate to charity and send monetary gifts by post. 2  Just go to your local Post Office to carry out the transaction. 3  If you need to make an immediate cash transfer, use Western Union.
Sending to an address Edit. The Post Office will send a postal money order that will be delivered to any address you specify. The recipient can then cash the order at their local post office. Money orders are valid for 3 months. There may be limits on the amount you can send, depending on destination country. It can take between 5-60 days to arrive at the address: UK 5-10 days; USA 5-12 days; Australia 10-20 days and Canada 20-30 days. You can send money to most of JETs' home countries, although notably not to Ireland. You can remit money to either an overseas address, or an overseas bank account. You can pay in cash, or you can have the sum debited from a Post Office savings account.
Visit your local post office. Wait in line to visit with a clerk. If you do not know where your nearest post office is, use a Post Office locator feature online such as this one: https://tools.usps.com/go/POLocatorAction!input.action. Most official post offices will be able to issue a money order directly to you. There are pluses and minuses to sending money orders through the post office. Benefits to using money orders include extra security, not requiring a bank or checking account, being able to pay upfront, and being able to send money internationally.
Money well sent. You can send money to anyone with just their email address or mobile phone number, and the money will go to their PayPal account. If they don't have a PayPal account, they can create one instantly for free. So go ahead and move your checkbook from the desk drawer to the junk drawer. Email Address
The cost to send money internationally depends on how much you want to send and where you want to send it to. Money can be sent as a ‘cash to cash money transfer’ where no bank accounts are required at either end or using ‘Direct to Bank’ where funds can be sent direct to a bank account. Or were you after: Sending money within NZ. You can send money from your local PostShop to a Western Union agent in over 200 1 countries and territories for pick up in minutes 1. There are more than 500,000 2 agents around the world so it’s easy for the receiver to collect the money.
Canada Post offers 2 ways to transfer funds and make bill payments: MoneyGram ™ and postal Money Orders. Use MoneyGram electronic money transfers at any Canada Post location to quickly send money locally or overseas. Funds can arrive in as little as 10 minutes, with low fees and great exchange rates. You can also pay your bills with the same day or next day bill payment service
Post Office Edit. Sending money through the Japanese Post Office is one of the cheapest options available, although it can take a while. You can send money to most of JETs' home countries, although notably not to Ireland. You can remit money to either an overseas address, or an overseas bank account. You can pay in cash, or you can have the sum debited from a Post Office savings account.