Oven: Preheat oven to 350ºF. Brush Turkey Drumsticks with vegetable oil. Place in pan, and cover. Bake 1 to 1½ hrs. Uncover and bake another ½ hr., or until tender. Cook until temperature reaches 165°F on a meat thermometer not touching bone. Skillet: Brown Turkey Drumsticks in lightly oiled skillet. Add ¾ cup of liquid, and cover. Simmer 1¼ hrs., or until tender.
Add chicken broth to pan. 8. Place turkey legs in pan. 9. Roast legs at 350 degrees for one hour and twenty minutes. CAUTION: Do not over bake and since ovens are different, start checking on the turkey leg temperature after one hour. Turkey temperature should be 175 degrees when you take it from the oven. 10
Bake the turkey drumsticks. Place them in the preheated oven for 45 minutes. Turn them over and cook for another 45 minutes. Insert a meat thermometer into the thickest part of the meat. They are ready when the internal temperature reaches 180ºF/82ºC. 1  To ensure that the turkey stays juicy, you can baste it every 20 minutes with a turkey baster or spoon.
1 Cook the turkey with the proper oven temperature, and cook it thoroughly. 2  Use a meat thermometer to verify that the turkey has cooked to the proper doneness (170ºF for the breast meat and 180ºF for the thigh meat). 3  Store leftovers promptly in the refrigerator or freezer. 1 A whole turkey should be cooked until the internal temperature of the breast meat reaches 170°F and the deepest portion of the thigh reaches 180°F.
1 Put some wood chips directly on the coals or use a smoker wood box. 2  Place the turkey legs on the grill and cook for 4 to 6 hours. 3  Check the temperature of the turkey legs with a meat thermometer. 4  The turkey legs are done cooking when the internal temperature reaches 165 degrees Fahrenheit (74 degrees Celsius). 1 Coat the turkey legs, as well as under the skin, with your favorite seasonings. 2  Place the turkey legs in the smoker and cook for about 4 hours. 3  Check the temperature of the turkey legs with a meat thermometer. 4  The temperature should reach 165 degrees Fahrenheit (74 degrees Celsius).
How? You'll need a meat thermometer to make sure you cook your turkey to the right temperature. Insert it close to, but not touching, the thigh bone. If it reads 180 degrees F in the thigh and 170 degrees F in the breast, it's done and ready to serve. how to (and how not to) check for doneness. Leg wiggling, juice color, even the aroma – you’ll hear lots of ways to check the doneness of your turkey at Thanksgiving. But there’s only one way to be sure: the
To make sure your turkey is cooked to a safe temperature but the breast meat doesn't dry out, cook it to 165 degrees. The old methods, like checking if the juices are clear or the thigh pulls easily away from the bone, do not ensure the bird is cooked to a safe temperature. To the surprise of many cooks, turkey meat can be light pink near the bone when cooked to a safe temperature, especially on the leg. (And, it can be completely white when not cooked to a safe temperature, which is why using a thermometer is so important).
1 Place the turkey legs on the grill and cook for 4 to 6 hours. 2  Check the temperature of the turkey legs with a meat thermometer. 3  The turkey legs are done cooking when the internal temperature reaches 165 degrees Fahrenheit (74 degrees Celsius). 1 Coat the turkey legs, as well as under the skin, with your favorite seasonings. 2  Place the turkey legs in the smoker and cook for about 4 hours. 3  Check the temperature of the turkey legs with a meat thermometer. 4  The temperature should reach 165 degrees Fahrenheit (74 degrees Celsius).
1 Put the turkey legs on the grill and cook for 4 to 6 hours. 2  Check the turkey legs with a meat thermometer. 3  They are finished cooking when the internal temperature reaches 165 degrees Fahrenheit (74 degrees Celsius). 1 Coat the turkey legs, as well as under the skin, with your favorite seasonings. 2  Place the turkey legs in the smoker and cook for about 4 hours. 3  Check the temperature of the turkey legs with a meat thermometer. 4  The temperature should reach 165 degrees Fahrenheit (74 degrees Celsius).