Caving (also known as speleology, or in some cases pot-holing) is the exploration of natural underground passages and chambers, usually formed where water has dissolved away limestone, or other similarly soft rock. It is an adventure sport and as such has inherent risks. People are attracted to caving by a number of different elements. Some are attracted to the truly magical sights; incredible formations and passages, often tens of thousands of years in the making, some of which have already remained unchanged for thousands of years.
Caving is the art of safely moving through a. cave to a destination and returning to the surface without hurting yourself or the cave. In order to explore safely, you will need the right equipment and the right skills. The following sections will provide you basic information and links to help you get started exploring caves. Every state has at least one caving club or grotto in their area. Grottos are local chapters of the National Speleological Society. Many National Parks also have caves and some offer guided caving tours. Some private caves and state parks also offer guided wild caving trips.
Go with a group. Even if you're experienced, you should always go caving with at least two other people. In an emergency, if someone were to become injured, one person could stay with the injured group member and the other could go for help. 1 Caving is sometimes referred to as spelunking. 2  When researching, use both terms for better results. 3  Every cave is different. 4  Research yours and find out what the locals do (and what some unfortunate folks didn't do) to keep safe in the cave you're exploring. 5  If you have a map of the cave, bring it with you.
Caving became widely popular in the 1940s and '50s when a substantial caving community developed in the United States. Caving, in certain areas, has also been utilized as a form of eco and adventure tourism. Tour companies have established an industry leading and guiding tours into and through caves.
Block cave mining is a mass mining method that allows for the bulk mining of large, relatively lower grade, orebodies. This method is increasingly being proposed for a number of deposits worldwide, thus the scope for a better understanding of block caving behaviour. BLOCK CAVE MINES AROUND THE WORLD. Block Caving requires a huge amount of developments. A block caving mining project called New Afton, belonging to New Gold Inc ., located near Kamloops, British Columbia is under construction and is expected reach production in 2012. 4,477 m of developments were done in 2008 alone.
Caving — also traditionally known as spelunking in the United States and Canada and potholing in the United Kingdom and Ireland — is the recreational pastime of exploring wild (generally non-commercial) cave systems. In contrast, speleology is the scientific study of caves and the cave environment. Caving, in certain areas, has also been utilized as a form of eco and adventure tourism. Tour companies have established an industry leading and guiding tours into and through caves.
Caving is a great hobby for adventurers who aren't afraid of tight spaces, heights, darkness, and bugs. Although the best way to learn how to cave safely is by going with experienced cavers and paying close attention to what they do to maintain safety, here are some guidelines to start you off. 1 Caving is sometimes referred to as spelunking. 2  When researching, use both terms for better results. 3  Every cave is different. 4  Research yours and find out what the locals do (and what some unfortunate folks didn't do) to keep safe in the cave you're exploring. 5  If you have a map of the cave, bring it with you.
Solutional caves are the most frequently occurring caves and such caves form in rock that is soluble, such as limestone, but can also form in other rocks, including chalk, dolomite, marble, salt, and gypsum. It is estimated that the maximum depth of a cave cannot be more than 3,000 metres (9,800 ft) due to the pressure of overlying rocks. For karst caves the maximum depth is determined on the basis of the lower limit of karst forming processes, coinciding with the base of the soluble carbonate rocks.
A cave or cavern is a hollow place in the ground, especially a natural underground space large enough for a human to enter. Caves form naturally by the weathering of rock and often extend deep underground. The word cave can also refer to much smaller openings such as sea caves, rock shelters, and grottos. Speleology is the science of exploration and study of all aspects of caves and the cave environment. It is estimated that the maximum depth of a cave cannot be more than 3,000 metres (9,800 ft) due to the pressure of overlying rocks. For karst caves the maximum depth is determined on the basis of the lower limit of karst forming processes, coinciding with the base of the soluble carbonate rocks.