Bitcoin is a payment system invented by Satoshi Nakamoto, who published the invention in 2008 and released it as open-source software in 2009. The system is peer-to-peer; users can transact directly without needing an intermediary. Bitcoin was invented by Satoshi Nakamoto, who published the invention on 31 October 2008 in a research paper called Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash system. It was implemented as open source code and released in January 2009. Bitcoin is often called the first cryptocurrency although prior systems existed.
Bitcoin is striving to be a global currency of sorts—one that's not backed by any government or institution. Bitcoins aren't cash, technically. They're an entirely virtual currency. Users exchange online credits for goods and services from select retailers, contractors and online trading houses. Bitcoin's creators like to position the currency as an alternative to the dollar and Euro. They hope to revolutionize the world of finance just as the Web has proven to be a paradigm shift in the publishing world.
Bitcoin is an anonymous digital currency... Bitcoin is not real money. It's an online currency—virtual tokens that can be exchanged for goods and services at places that accept it, the same way you'd give someone a dollar for a cookie. Just like you can trade in yen for dollars, you can swap your BitCoins with other users for several real world currencies. And right now, the BitCoin is trading very high! When we first published this post in May 2011, one Bitcoin was worth $7.50. Today it's over $250. And climbing. And climbing a
Part of the Internet technologies glossary: Bitcoin is a digital currency (also called crypto-currency) that is not backed by any country's central bank or government. Bitcoins can be traded for goods or services with vendors who accept Bitcoins as payment. 
Bitcoins have value because they are useful and because they are scarce. As they are accepted by more merchants, their value will stabilize. See the list of Bitcoin-accepting sites. When we say that a currency is backed up by gold, we mean that there's a promise in place that you can exchange the currency for gold. Bitcoins, like dollars and euros, are not backed up by anything except the variety of merchants that accept them. 
In a sense, if Bitcoin is backed by anything, it’s backed by the strength of clever mathematics.Bitcoin might represent the first currency which is not backed by a physical good and still prevents arbitrary inflation. You can’t say that about any other currency which is “not backed by anything.”But it’s not only the production of Bitcoin which is decentralized; it’s also their record of ownership. Every single Bitcoin which has ever been created can be traced back to its inception-including every transaction and change of ownership.
Today, many currencies such as the US dollar are government “fiat” currencies which are backed by the decree of the government that issued the currency. Like Bitcoin, you can’t cash in a dialed government fiat currency for anything or use it for something else. Some are very wary of Bitcoin because you can hold it or use if for anything else. A common example is gold which can be used for jewelry, electronic equipment, etc.
Bitcoin. Bitcoin is a decentralized digital currency that enables instant payments to anyone, anywhere in the world. Bitcoin uses peer-to-peer technology to operate with no central authority: transaction management and money issuance are carried out collectively by the network.
Bitcoin is backed by the faith of the people that use it but you can’t cash it in for anything or use it for something else if Bitcoin should fail to remain valuable. Many government-backed currencies are similar. Like Bitcoin, you can’t cash in a dialed government fiat currency for anything or use it for something else. Some are very wary of Bitcoin because you can hold it or use if for anything else. A common example is gold which can be used for jewelry, electronic equipment, etc.