For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Medical Technologist (ASCP) in the United States is $64,289 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Medical Technologist (ASCP) in the United States are expected to make less than $64,289. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $64,289. The annual salary for someone with the job title Medical Technologist (ASCP) may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education.
Clinical laboratory sciences (also known as medical technology) is a biology/chemistry-based bachelor's degree that prepares students for exciting, challenging and dynamic careers in places such as hospital labs and clinics, forensic labs, veterinary clinics, industrial research labs and molecular biotechnology labs. 1 Local starting salaries (Kansas City and surrounding area) average $24 per hour (as reported by recent graduates). 2  National range = $23.78 to $36.10 per hour, 2010 (ASCP). 3  Sign-on bonuses $1,000 to $5,000.
The American Society for Clinical Pathology (ASCP) offers over 20 professional certifications for pathologist's assistants, laboratory technicians and technologists. In California and New York, ASCP certification qualifies some technicians and technologists for state licensure. Most ASCP certifications require a minimum of a bachelor's degree, however some technicians require a minimum of a high school diploma. The certification requirements vary by category, but all include a combination of education, training and experience.
An ASCP certification is generally a professional credential for pathologist's assistants, laboratory technicians and technologists. Continue reading for an overview of the qualifications for certification, as well as job growth and salary info for a few career options for certified professionals. Most ASCP certifications require a minimum of a bachelor's degree, however some technicians require a minimum of a high school diploma. The certification requirements vary by category, but all include a combination of education, training and experience.
Career and Salary Information. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, jobs for medical and clinical laboratory technicians are predicted to increase 30% from 2012-2022, while jobs for medical and clinical laboratory technologists are predicted to increase 14% during that same decade (www.bls.gov). Most ASCP certifications require a minimum of a bachelor's degree, however some technicians require a minimum of a high school diploma. The certification requirements vary by category, but all include a combination of education, training and experience.
The MDS program prepares professionals who are competent in performing and interpreting molecular-based laboratory tests, explaining the appropriate use and meaning of molecular-based tests to other health care professionals, and establishing and validating new molecular methods in a clinical laboratory. The MCLS-MDS is a program in the Division of Clinical Laboratory Science, Department of Allied Health Sciences in the UNC-CH School of Medicine. The UNC-CH MDS Program is accredited by the National Accrediting Agency for Clinical Laboratory Science (NAACLS), 5600 North River Road, Suite 720; Rosemont, IL 60018.
Outcomes. The certification examination for graduates of the Master’s in Clinical Laboratory Science – Molecular Diagnostic Science track is the Molecular Biology (MB) examination offered by the ASCP-Board of Certification. The MCLS-MDS is a program in the Division of Clinical Laboratory Science, Department of Allied Health Sciences in the UNC-CH School of Medicine. The UNC-CH MDS Program is accredited by the National Accrediting Agency for Clinical Laboratory Science (NAACLS), 5600 North River Road, Suite 720; Rosemont, IL 60018.
According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, median annual salary earnings of medical or clinical laboratory technologists were $57,580 in May 2012. Once accepted into the program, Mayo Clinic in Rochester students spend 10.5 months in training. 
Salaries The national average salary for medical technologists is approximately $40,200, although salaries vary by area of the country. Experienced supervisors' and managers' average salaries range approximately from $59,200 to $63,000. What it takes to be a medical technologist All medical technologists have certain common characteristics. They are problem-solvers. They like challenge and responsibility.