Pertussis is a respiratory disease found only in humans that is caused by the bacterium Bordetella pertussis. The first account of the infection was recorded in the sixteenth century, but it was not until the early twentieth century that B. pertussis was identified as the cause. The DTaP vaccine (made with acellular pertussis, which contains only parts of the pertussis bacterium and does not cause as many side effects as the vaccine made with the whole bacterium) is given in multiple doses, starting at 2 months of age.
Pertussis (Whooping Cough). Pertussis (whooping cough) is a highly contagious, vaccine-preventable respiratory disease. Pertussis most commonly affects infants and young children and can be fatal, especially in babies less than 1 year of age. Pertussis is caused by a bacteria found in the mouth, nose and throat of an infected person. Transmission to others occurs during close contact with an infected person, most commonly by airborne droplets of respiratory secretions.
The human respiratory tract pathogen Bordetella pertussis is the major cause of whooping cough in infants and young children, and also causes chronic cough in adults. B. pertussis infection damages ciliated epithelium in the respiratory tract. 
Whooping cough (pertussis) facts. 1  Whooping cough (pertussis) is an acute, highly contagious respiratory infection that is caused by the bacterium Bordetella pertussis. 2  Whooping cough commonly affects infants and young children but can be prevented by immunization with the pertussis vaccine. 
Whooping cough-or pertussis-is an infection of the respiratory system caused by the bacterium Bordetella pertussis (or B. pertussis). It's characterized by severe coughing … spells that end in a whooping sound when the person breathes in. Whooping cough(or pertussis) is caused by a bacteria called Bordetella pertussis. When an infected person coughes or sneezes, the bacteria moves through the air. This is the r … eason Pertussis is an extremely contagious disease. + 28 others found this useful.
As mentioned before, whooping cough is a bacterial infection caused by Bordetella pertussis. Infection occurs in the lining of the airways, principally in the trachea (the windpipe) as well as the bronchi (airways that branch off from the trachea to the lungs. 
In infants, especially those under the age of two, complications from whooping cough are more severe and may include ear infections, pneumonia, slowed or stopped breathing, dehydration, seizures, and brain damage. Respiratory complications can be severe in infants and may include suffocation, also known as asphyxiation. Seizures can occur in infants who have whooping cough.
Causes. Pertussis, a respiratory illness commonly known as whooping cough, is a very contagious disease caused by a type of bacteria called Bordetella pertussis. These bacteria attach to the cilia (tiny, hair-like extensions) that line part of the upper respiratory system. 
Whooping cough is a highly contagious bacterial infection in your respiratory system caused by a bacteria called Bordetella Pertussis. If you grew up in a developed country, y … ou were probably vaccinated as a child. Whooping cough(or pertussis) is caused by a bacteria called Bordetella pertussis. When an infected person coughes or sneezes, the bacteria moves through the air. This is the r … eason Pertussis is an extremely contagious disease. + 28 others found this useful.