Nuts are usually high in fat and protein, and people throughout the world eat them as snacks or incorporate them into both sweet and savory dishes. Many nuts can be eaten raw but roasting them helps intensify their flavor. Nuts are usually harvested in the fall, and it's best to buy unprocessed nuts then. 
Add as Friend | Send Message. I eat a variety of nuts, both for good health and to lose weight (-31 lbs and counting). I eat organic and raw walnuts (and I don't soak them!) for the omega 3 fats. My second choice is organic and raw macadamia nuts, which seem to be hard to find but i jump through hoops to get them. Macadamias have the highest fat content of any nut, I believe, and I find that eating six is satisfying. Eating Nuts in Moderation is Best You need to be cautious with the quantity of nuts you eat, but this is not because they will make you fat, as many believe. Instead, the reason for moderation is that almost all nuts are top heavy in omega-6 fats and can upset your omega-6/omega-3 ratio.
Walnuts. Walnuts, with their coveted buttery flavor, provide the perfect crunch for any topping or crust. They are a part of the tree nut family along with brazil nuts, cashews, hazelnuts, macadamia nuts, pecans, pine nuts, and pistachios. 
Be it that I am a vegetarian and I have found this diet to be beneficial to most anyone, I feel that walnuts are a good source for vitamin E. I hope that this helps to clarify my point of view, if eating raw meat works for you then maybe its best that you stick with that. Thank you again for your post, take care and be well! Walnuts are great. If only there was some way to prevent the oil from going rancid so quickly and to make them keep longer.
Walnuts can be eaten raw, as they are, or toast to bring out more of their flavour: place the nuts on a baking sheet in a single layer and bake on a medium heat for 10-12 minutes. They are ready when the kernels turn golden. Far more common is the dried nut, either shelled or unshelled. The brown-skinned kernel has a ridged surface, which looks like two halves of the brain. Slightly bitter in flavour, walnuts are good eaten raw or cooked, in either sweet or savoury dishes, and are particularly useful for baking.
1 Walnuts can also be eaten as a snack on th…. 2  Recipes with Walnuts You can use walnuts in everything from appetizers to desserts. 3  There are even drinks that call for adding walnuts. 
Store it. Unshelled walnuts should be stored in an airtight container in a cool, dark place-they'll last for around three months. Shelled walnuts should be kept in an airtight container in the fridge-they'll last for up to six months. Far more common is the dried nut, either shelled or unshelled. The brown-skinned kernel has a ridged surface, which looks like two halves of the brain. Slightly bitter in flavour, walnuts are good eaten raw or cooked, in either sweet or savoury dishes, and are particularly useful for baking.
Although a lot of people choose the roast their walnuts because of the fact that doing so can enhance the taste, you tend to lose a lot of the vitamins and minerals that make these nuts so healthy to eat. 
Overview. When a black walnut is ripe your must remove the nut shell from it's husk. The husk is often soft and a green or brown color. If it's not removed then the walnut meat can begin to mold. Before you can eat or use the black walnut meat you must be able to also properly crack the shells, which can be challenging. If you don't want to crack all of the shells you have you can store the nuts up to a year.