Escherichia coli bacteria. Certain strains of E. coli, such as O157:H7, O104:H4, O121, O26, O103, O111, O145 ,and O104:H21, produce potentially lethal toxins. Food poisoning caused by E. coli can result from eating unwashed vegetables or undercooked meat. Most E. coli strains are harmless, but some serotypes can cause serious food poisoning in humans. The harmless strains are part of the normal flora of the gut, and can benefit their hosts by producing vitamin K2, and by preventing the establishment of pathogenic bacteria within the intestine.
The oxidase test is a test used in microbiology to determine if a bacterium produces certain cytochrome c oxidases. The reagent is a dark-blue to maroon color when oxidized, and colorless when reduced. Oxidase-positive bacteria possess cytochrome oxidase or indophenol oxidase (an iron-containing hemoprotein). These both catalyze the transport of electrons from donor compounds (NADH) to electron acceptors (usually oxygen).
TMPD. The oxidase test is a test used in microbiology to determine if a bacterium produces certain cytochrome c oxidases. It uses disks impregnated with a reagent such as N,N,N′,N′-tetramethyl-p-phenylenediamine (TMPD) or N,N-dimethyl-p -phenylenediamine (DMPD), which is also a redox indicator. The reagent is a dark-blue to maroon color when oxidized, and colorless when reduced. Oxidase-positive bacteria possess cytochrome oxidase or indophenol oxidase (an iron-containing hemoprotein). These both catalyze the transport of electrons from donor compounds (NADH) to electron acceptors (usually oxygen).
Escherichia coli (commonly abbreviated E. coli) is a Gram-negative, rod-shaped bacterium that is commonly found in the lower intestine of warm-blooded organisms (endotherms). Most E. coli strains are harmless, but some serotypes can cause serious food poisoning in humans. The harmless strains are part of the normal flora of the gut, and can benefit their hosts by producing vitamin K2, and by preventing the establishment of pathogenic bacteria within the intestine.
The proteobacteria are a major group of gram-negative bacteria, including Escherichia coli (E. coli), Salmonella, Shigella, and other Enterobacteriaceae, Pseudomonas, Moraxella, Helicobacter, Stenotrophomonas, Bdellovibrio, acetic acid bacteria, Legionella etc. 
Family: Escherichia coli fits into the family Enterobacteriaceae because members of this group are motile via peritrichous flagella that grows well at 37oC, is Oxidase negative, Catalase positive, and reduces nitrates. 
Catalase Test: A. Enterococcus faecalis-This organism is negative for catalase. B. Escherichia coli-The bubbles indicate E. coli is positive for catalase. Oxidase Test: A. Pseudomonas aeruginosa-Purple color indicates positive. B. Escherichia coli-Negative. 
Yes, it is catalase positive. This is because it is capable of breaking down hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) to give water and oxygen. The presence of bubbles when hydrogen peroxide is added to E. coli on a microscope slide is a phenotypic (observable physical characteristic) proof that it is catalase positive. 1 Vital Tips for Preventing E. coli in Your Home Most strains of E. coli bacteria live in your intestine and are harmless. 2  However, some strains found on raw food and spoiled remains make people very sick. 3  Follow the steps ….