The cattail is one of the most important and most common wild foods that also boast a variety of uses at different times of the year. Cattails (aka bulrushes) can be used to make mats, baskets, and the cigar-shaped head can even be used as packing material. Dipping the head in oil or fat, they can be used as torches. 
Cattail; a common and useful native plant. Cattails are one of the most common and easily identified of our water-loving plants. Most people are familiar with the long green leaves and hot-dog shaped brown flower spikes of our common native cattail, Typha latifolia. Cattails are sometimes thought of as a nuisance along lake margins. However, they and other shoreline plants can perform important functions that help keep a lake healthy. One such benefit is they filter runoff as it flows into the lake. This helps reduce nutrients as well as mud which enter lakes from surrounding land.
Home. Cattails are wetland plants with a unique flowering spike, flat blade like leaves that reach heights from 3 to 10 feet. They are one of the most common plants in large marshes and on the edge of ponds. Two species are most common in US: broad leaved cattail (T. latifolia) and narrow leaf cattail (T. angustifolia). 
Description. Hybrid cattail is an erect, rhizomatous perennial aquatic herb that can range in height from 3 to 10 feet. Leaves of the plant are long, linear, parallel-veined, moderately planoconvex, 1/8 to 3/4 of an inch wide, and deep green in color. Hybrid cattail is a hybrid between Typha angustifolia (narrow-leaved cattail) and Typha latifolia (broad-leaved cattail). The plant apparently has intermediate characteristics between the parent plants in all features. Hybrid cattail is a mostly sterile perennial aquatic herb.
Types of Cattail. Common Name: Hybrid cattail, white cattail Active growth period Bloom Period JuneFruit seed period Begins JulyFruit seed period Ends SeptemberVegetation Spread Rate Rapid Description Hybrid cattail is an erect, rhizomatous perennial aquatic herb that can range in height from 3 to 10 feet. Leaves of the plant are long, linear, parallel-veined, moderately planoconvex, 1/8 to 3/4 of an inch wide, and deep green in color.
Cattails are wetland plants. They grow anywhere the soil is covered with water during their growing season. The common cattail, a type that has broad leaves, is one of two different kinds of this plant that grows in the Chesapeake Bay region. Cattail flowers grow during the summer months. The yellow spike disappears in late August. Then, in the fall, the brown head pops open, releasing fluffy seeds. Common cattails grow from underground rhizomes, or a knobby underground type of root that grows horizontally).
Typha latifolia (bulrush, common bulrush, broadleaf cattail, common cattail, great reedmace, cooper's reed, cumbungi) is a perennial herbaceous plant in the genus Typha. It is found as a native plant species in North and South America, Europe, Eurasia, and Africa. 
Home. Cattails are wetland plants with a unique flowering spike, flat blade like leaves that reach heights from 3 to 10 feet. They are one of the most common plants in large marshes and on the edge of ponds. Two species are most common in US: broad leaved cattail (T. latifolia) and narrow leaf cattail (T. angustifolia). Under the right conditions, cattails can grow and spread vigorously. The pollinated flowers develop into fluffy seed heads, blowing across a pond in autumn breezes. Just as commonly, cattails spread through their root system. The thick, white roots, called rhizomes, grow underground near the edge of ponds and in shallow swales. As long as the water is not too deep, the cattails feast off the open sunshine and abundant water, storing a large amount of food in the
They can even be found in ditches. Cattails are tall, stiff plants, growing almost ten feet tall. The leaves look like giant blades of grass, about one inch wide. The flower has two parts; a brown cylinder (the female part), and a yellow spike (the male part). Cattails are usually found in a dense stand (many together). 
Seeds of the plant are very small. Hybrid cattail is a hybrid between Typha angustifolia (narrow-leaved cattail) and Typha latifolia (broad-leaved cattail). The plant apparently has intermediate characteristics between the parent plants in all features. Hybrid cattail is a mostly sterile perennial aquatic herb.