Cocoa beans grow best where there are fairly constant, warm or even hot temperatures all year round (usually in the 65 to 90 degree F range). For cocoa beans to thrive, they need high humidity and a lot of rainfall (from about 40 to 100 inches per year). Cocoa beans grow poorly in any kind of cold or drought conditions. Additionally, cocoa beans grow best where there is a lot of light. Cocoa beans grow into beautiful trees; these trees grow most successfully in a narrow band called the Cocoa Belt or the Chocolate Belt; this band extends up to 20 degrees of latitude north and south of the equator.
Pods containing cocoa beans grow from the trunk and branches of the cocoa tree. Harvesting involves removing ripe pods from the trees and opening them to extract the wet beans. The pods are harvested manually by making a clean cut through the stalk with a well sharpened blade. 
Cocoa beans grow on a tree called Theobroma cacao and are the base ingredient for making chocolate. The relatively small tree is native to the tropical regions of Central and South America and it thrives in moist, shady areas of the rain forest. 
Cocoa Growing Countries. The cocoa tree is a native of the Amazon basin and other tropical areas of South and Central America, where wild varieties still grow in the forests, but the cocoa growing area has extended to the Carribbean and beyond. Different types of cocoa are selected for cultivation in the various growing areas. 
Cocoa Bean Growing Conditions. As we’ve already discovered, the cocoa tree is native to the forests of Central and South America, enjoying a hot, humid environment but also a little shade. 
Soils. Cocoa plants require well drained soil and grow best in slightly acid to neutral pH soils. Amending the top 4 to 8 inches (10-20 cm) of acid and alkaline soils with a mixture of compost, topsoil, and native soil may enhance plant establishment and growth. 
WHY COCOA IS GROWN. People grow cocoa trees in order to sell the cocoa beans that are in the pods. The kernel of the cocoa beans is used to make cocoa and chocolate. In the countries of Europe and North America people eat a lot of cocoa and chocolate. But the cocoa tree does not grow in their countries; they buy cocoa from Africa. The countries of Africa earn a lot of money by selling their cocoa. 
One of the reasons why people ask us “Where do cocoa beans grow” is because they are interested in knowing whether they can grow cocoa beans in their house into a cocoa tree. Unfortunately, it is very difficult to grow cocoa trees indoors – especially in the United States. Cocoa beans grow into beautiful trees; these trees grow most successfully in a narrow band called the Cocoa Belt or the Chocolate Belt; this band extends up to 20 degrees of latitude north and south of the equator.
Cocoa beans come from cocoa pods, which are found naturally in jungle biomes. Placing a cocoa bean on the side of jungle wood will plant a new cocoa pod. (The log does not need to be attached to a tree). Cocoa has three stages of growth. During its first, the pod is small and green. 