How Bank Account Fraud Works. Typically, someone you don’t know approaches you with a request that involves cashing a check or depositing it into your bank account and then asks you to use a portion of that money for what appears to be a legitimate purpose. The best defense against bank account fraud is awareness. Review these tips to know what to look for: 1  Use common sense. 2  If it sounds too good to be true, it probably is. 3  Be suspicious if you are asked to deposit or cash a check and immediately give or wire a portion of the funds.
To find the contact details and location of your nearest police station, see www.police.uk. Police 6.3If the fraud relates to online banking, cheques or the charity’s debit or credit card, or you suspect fraudulent activity on the charity’s account, you should contact your bank or credit card company immediately. While this is a sobering figure, the estimated percentage of charity turnover lost to fraud (1.7% of a £64.6 billion combined annual turnover) is broadly comparable to the private and public sectors. This guide is for the trustees and managers of charities.
1 Be suspicious if you are asked to deposit or cash a check and immediately give or wire a portion of the funds. 2  Remember that you are responsible and liable for items you cash or deposit into your account. 3  It may take time for a fraudulent check to be discovered and returned to your bank. The best defense against bank account fraud is awareness. Review these tips to know what to look for: 1  Use common sense. 2  If it sounds too good to be true, it probably is. 3 
The Association of Certified Fraud Examiners estimates that organizations lose 5 percent of annual revenue to fraud, which means the not-for-profit sector is a victim of $77 billion in estimated annual losses due to fraud. The board of directors of a not-for-profit organization has a fiduciary responsibility to the organization and its grantees and donors. In addition to its oversight responsibilities for policy making, planning, fiscal management, and public liaison, the board has fraud-related oversight responsibilities.
How to Investigate Nonprofit Companies. Before making a donation to, volunteering with, or accepting a job with a nonprofit company you may wish to do a little investigating in order to determine if the organization is trustworthy. To investigate a nonprofit company, follow the steps below. Ad. 
A report should be made to Action Fraud in addition to a report that your bank or other financial institution may make, in the following circumstances: 1  The card/account involved is not a UK bank or financial institution. The police are not the only agency with power to investigate fraud related offences; it is often difficult to determine what has happened and who to make reports to. In priority cases, as shown below, a report should be made to Police. In other cases, the reports should be made to Action Fraud.
Charity Scams. If you’re thinking about giving to a charity, do your research to avoid fraudsters who try to take advantage of your generosity. Here are tips to help make sure that your charitable contributions actually go to the cause you support.
Charities that fall victim to fraud not only face monetary losses, but also have to consider the impact the fraud will have on their reputation and levels of public trust and confidence – and in turn the impact this may have on income and support for beneficiaries. While this is a sobering figure, the estimated percentage of charity turnover lost to fraud (1.7% of a £64.6 billion combined annual turnover) is broadly comparable to the private and public sectors. This guide is for the trustees and managers of charities.
1 Report fraud. 2  Call your insurance company immediately if you suspect you may be a victim of health insurance fraud. 3  Many insurers now offer the opportunity to report suspected fraud online through their Website. 4  Be informed. 
Every bank’s website will have a contact number for reporting fraud as well as a 24-hour emergency number (which can also be found on account statements). The bank will cancel the affected cards, if applicable, and may freeze the account while they investigate. While this is a sobering figure, the estimated percentage of charity turnover lost to fraud (1.7% of a £64.6 billion combined annual turnover) is broadly comparable to the private and public sectors. This guide is for the trustees and managers of charities.