This is a view of the River Medway and its towpath as it flows through Maidstone. The Crown Court is across the river. Maidstone: River Medway. To move around in the image, hold down your left mouse button and drag, or use cursor keys. Use A to zoom in and Z to zoom out. Please be patient while the image loads
The River Medway is a river in South East England. It rises in the High Weald, Sussex, and flows through Tonbridge, Maidstone and the Medway conurbation in Kent before emptying into the Thames Estuary near Sheerness, a total distance of 70 miles (113 km). About 13 miles (21 km) of the river lies in Sussex, with the remainder being in Kent. The River Medway is featured at Maidstone in the studio backdrop of the ITV1 regional news programme Meridian Tonight. At 7.15 p.m. on 1 May each year, local morris dancers Kettle Bridge Clogs dance across Barming Bridge (otherwise known as the Kettle Bridge) to mark the official start of their morris dancing season.
The course of the Medway It is no accident that the River Medway takes asharp turn to the north as it reaches the Maidstonearea. It runs into the North Downs, a row of hillswhich stretch for 190 kilometres (120 miles) fromSurrey, across Kent, to the coast at Dover. A River Medway university race was first held in 2007between students of the University of Kent, theUniversity of Greenwich and Canterbury ChristChurch University. This race is now an importantevent in the Medway sporting year. The three teamsbattle it out for the right to call themselves Head ofthe River.
The River itself runs from between East Grinstead and Forest Row in East Sussex, through the High Weald, around the Hartfield and Groombridge areas, on to Tunbridge Wells and Tonbridge, then to Yalding and Maidstone and finally joining the Thames Estuary between Sheerness and the Isle of Grain. 
The River Medway is an idyllic place to take a leisurely walk. Maidstone Millennium River Park stretches 10km along the River Medway from Teston Country Park, through Maidstone Town Centre, to Allington Lock and the Kent Life Heritage Farm Park. Download Maidstone Millennium River Park Walk. The 3 km Teston River Walk has great views of the River Medway. Download Teston River Walk. The Yalding-Nettlestead Walk meanders 6 miles in a circular route from Teapot Island in Yalding to the village of Nettlestead.
At West Peckham, it is joined by the Wealdway which continues through Tonbridge, thus linking with the Eden Valley Walk. Maidstone Millennium River Park is a 10 kilometres (6.2 mi) walk from Teston Country Park to the Museum of Kent Life at Sandling. The River Medway is featured at Maidstone in the studio backdrop of the ITV1 regional news programme Meridian Tonight. At 7.15 p.m. on 1 May each year, local morris dancers Kettle Bridge Clogs dance across Barming Bridge (otherwise known as the Kettle Bridge) to mark the official start of their morris dancing season.
This barrier was built to protect Tonbridge from the flooding River Medway, since it was severely affected by major floods in 1968. In the present day, the part of the River Medway that lies between Maidstone and Tonbridge is maintained as a public right of navigation. This makes it possible for those traversing it to witness the delightful scenery of the Garden of England. These activities have left their indelible mark on the River Medway, though it continues to be a major draw for tourist and leisure attraction seekers. The River Medway and its tributaries extend mainly through rural areas, though it also connects with Medway, Tonbridge and Maidstone.
River Medway. The River Medway was opened to navigation over two and a half centuries ago. It flows largely through Kent in England, with a flow-length of almost 70 miles, beginning from inside the border of West Sussex and then entering the Thames Estuary. The River Medway's catchment area, which is the biggest for a river in England, is 930 square miles. These activities have left their indelible mark on the River Medway, though it continues to be a major draw for tourist and leisure attraction seekers. The River Medway and its tributaries extend mainly through rural areas, though it also connects with Medway, Tonbridge and Maidstone.