The name was common among the Normans, and it became extremely popular in England after William the Conqueror was recognized as the first Norman king of England. It was later borne by three other English kings, as well as rulers of Scotland, Sicily (of Norman origin), the Netherlands and Prussia.
Save Name. Last name origin & meaning: Altered spelling of the English habitational name Kil(l)ham, from places in Northumberland and East Yorkshire, so named from Old English cylnum ‘(at) the kilns’, dative plural of cyln.
The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Killam families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records.
If you have ever asked this question and wondered about the origin of your last name, you will find your surname may answer one of the questions of where your ancestors lived, or what they did for a living, or what was their personality like, or how they looked many hundreds of years ago.
Williams is the 3rd most popular surname in Great Britain. Most Common Australian Surnames & Their Meanings. Williams is 3rd on this list of the most commonly occurring surnames in Australia, which includes details on each name's origin and meaning. Williams DNA Project. The Williams DNA project has over 535 participants making it the 2nd largest surname DNA project in the world.
You can find out when most of the Killam families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination. from the Social Security Death Index (SSDI).
Name Meanings and History One of the things that all people and places have in common is (NAMES). Have you ever asked yourself, What does my name mean?.
Killam Name Meaning. Altered spelling of the English habitational name Kil(l)ham, from places in Northumberland and East Yorkshire, so named from Old English cylnum ‘(at) the kilns’, dative plural of cyln.