The circulatory system is a vast network of organs and vessels that is responsible for the flow of blood, nutrients, hormones, oxygen and other gases to and from cells. The pulmonary circulatory system sends oxygen-depleted blood away from the heart through the pulmonary artery to the lungs and returns oxygenated blood to the heart through the pulmonary veins, according to the Mayo Clinic.
White Blood Cells. Even though white blood cells are outnumbered by red blood cells 700 to one and make up less than 1% of the blood's volume, they still play a vital role for the body, they are a mobile defence force that also removes all of the blockages in th ecirculatory system. Kuppfer cells, or hepatic macrophages, are irregularly-shaped, yellow white blood cells that live permanently in the liver. In the liver, they trap, eat, and then recycle worn-out red blood cells. Kupffer cells also remove bacteria and debris using phagocytosis from the blood
The circulatory system is often seen to comprise both the cardiovascular system, which distributes blood, and the lymphatic system, which circulates lymph. These are two separate systems. The passage of lymph for example takes a lot longer than that of blood. The open circulatory system is a system in which a fluid in a cavity called the hemocoel bathes the organs directly with oxygen and nutrients and there is no distinction between blood and interstitial fluid; this combined fluid is called hemolymph or haemolymph.
The superhighways of the circulatory system are the veins and arteries. Veins are used to carry blood *to* the heart. Arteries carry blood *away* from the heart. Most of the time, blood in the veins is blood where most of the oxygen and nutrients have already been delivered to the cells. This blood is called deoxygenated and is very *dark* red. RBC's carry oxygen and nutrients to the cells. Every cell in the body requires oxygen to remain alive. Besides RBC's, there are also White Blood Cells moving in the circulatory system traffic. White Blood Cells are the paramedics, police and street cleaners of the circulatory system.
In addition to blood, the circulatory system moves lymph, which is a clear fluid that helps rid the body of unwanted material. The heart, blood, and blood vessels make up the cardiovascular component of the circulatory system. The pulmonary circulatory system sends oxygen-depleted blood away from the heart through the pulmonary artery to the lungs and returns oxygenated blood to the heart through the pulmonary veins, according to the Mayo Clinic.
Another important organ to the circulatory system are the lungs. The lungs are part of the respiratory system and deliver oxygen to the blood so that it can be pumped through the arteries by the heart and delivered to the rest of the body. The heart is a vitally important organ made of strong muscle tissue and is protected by the rib cage. It is about the size of your fist and sits slightly to the left of the middle of your chest. The heart is one of the only organs in the circulatory system but it is one of the most important organs in your entire body.
The pulmonary vein sends the oxygen-rich blood back to the heart, according to NLM. The systemic circulation is the portion of the circulatory system is the network of veins, arteries and blood vessels that transports blood from heart, services the body's cells and then re-enters the heart, the Mayo Clinic noted. The pulmonary circulatory system sends oxygen-depleted blood away from the heart through the pulmonary artery to the lungs and returns oxygenated blood to the heart through the pulmonary veins, according to the Mayo Clinic.
Other important aspects of the circulatory system are arteries, veins, and capillaries. Although these are not organs, they are key elements of this system. Other organs from other systems that help the circulatory system carry out its functions are the brain and the lungs. The heart is a vitally important organ made of strong muscle tissue and is protected by the rib cage. It is about the size of your fist and sits slightly to the left of the middle of your chest. The heart is one of the only organs in the circulatory system but it is one of the most important organs in your entire body.
Blood is a fluid consisting of plasma, red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets that is circulated by the heart through the vertebrate vascular system, carrying oxygen and nutrients to and waste materials away from all body tissues. The open circulatory system is a system in which a fluid in a cavity called the hemocoel bathes the organs directly with oxygen and nutrients and there is no distinction between blood and interstitial fluid; this combined fluid is called hemolymph or haemolymph.
Plasma is a yellowish liquid that suspends and transports food and wastes to and from all of the body's cells. The plasma carries food particles to the cells of the body where they are converted into energy or stored away for a later need. Plasma is also the medium in which all red blood cells, platelets, and white blood cells are transported around the body. Kuppfer cells, or hepatic macrophages, are irregularly-shaped, yellow white blood cells that live permanently in the liver. In the liver, they trap, eat, and then recycle worn-out red blood cells. Kupffer cells also remove bacteria and debris using phagocytosis from the blood