Info. Sugarcane ethanol is an alcohol-based fuel produced by the fermentation of sugarcane juice and molasses. Because it is a clean, affordable and low-carbon biofuel, sugarcane ethanol has emerged as a leading renewable fuel for the transportation sector. Ethanol can be used two ways: 1  Blended with gasoline at levels ranging from 5 to 27 percent to reduce petroleum use, boost octane ratings and cut tailpipe emissions.
Sugarcane ethanol today is made from the sucrose found in sugarcane juice and molasses. This current process taps only one-third of the energy sugarcane can offer. The other two-thirds remains locked in leftover cane fiber (called bagasse) and straw. Because it is a clean, affordable and low-carbon biofuel, sugarcane ethanol has emerged as a leading renewable fuel for the transportation sector. Ethanol can be used two ways: 1  Blended with gasoline at levels ranging from 5 to 27 percent to reduce petroleum use, boost octane ratings and cut tailpipe emissions.
The reason sugar cane can be used to make sugar and generate electricity is that it is very efficient in converting sunlight into energy. The company estimates it saves hundreds of thousands of tons of carbon emissions by burning bagasse to run their facility, rather than fossil fuels. It’s not exactly sugar juice, but the sugar cane fiber left over after the juice is extracted, which is burned to make electricity. The fiber is called bagasse, and is being used in cogeneration power plants. Once it dries, it is burned in boilers to make steam. The steam is used to create electricity
Sugarcane, or sugar cane, is one of the several species of tall perennial true grasses of the genus Saccharum, tribe Andropogoneae, native to the warm temperate to tropical regions of South Asia, Melanesia, and used for sugar production. 
In commercial production, bagasse is pulped in huge vats, using chemicals. You can make sugar cane paper at home, however, by combining the bagasse with other fibers, such as paper scraps and cotton fibers. You need to find a source for bagasse. Look for a Middle Eastern or health food market that presses their own sugar cane in a mechanical presser, and ask for the leftover bagasse. 
get healthy living updates. It’s not exactly sugar juice, but the sugar cane fiber left over after the juice is extracted, which is burned to make electricity. The fiber is called bagasse, and is being used in cogeneration power plants. Once it dries, it is burned in boilers to make steam. The steam is used to create electricity
Instructions. Refine the sugar cane to make sugar. The juices inside the cane, which actually make the sugar, reduce the efficiency of the fuel and can be sold for profit. The remnants of this system leave you with the husks, or bagasse, of the cane which can be used for fuel. Dry out the sugar cane husks by either leaving them in the sun or drying them in an oven