Building a central multi-user iTunes server that works consistently and well— that's also easy to configure and maintain without needing remote administration tools or command line hackery—is annoyingly difficult. However, it is relatively easy to take your iTunes library and simply move it to a NAS. Let's be clear going in: this is not a guide on how to set up an iTunes server. We're not going to describe how to get your music centrally situated and available as an attached library for all your iTunes clients. There are lots of ways to do this, but they just don't stand up over time.
1 Select Save. 2  Open iTunes. 3  To ensure your library is shared to your local network, open the Preferences options in iTunes. 4  From the menu sidebar in iTunes, looked under Shared for the Seagate Business NAS. 5  It will be labeled BA-XXXXXX, or, if you changed the hostname, the name you selected will appear. 1 Open iTunes. 2  To ensure your library is shared to your local network, open the Preferences options in iTunes. 3
There's a section called iTunes Server. 7. Turn on iTunes Server. Click to enable iTunes Server. You may also want to customise the location of the shared music folder: click Modify Settings and use the Public Folder dropdown to select any drive folders. Here, we've pointed it at the Music folder we created earlier. 
To answer my own question... An iTunes Server is an application that honors Apple's DAAP (Digital Audio Access Protocol). It basically shares your iTunes library including playlists etc. It is NOT the holy grail of many to one iTunes library management. The NAS manufacturers are integrating this type of server functionality (eg. 
After doing this, your library will appear in the Shared section of the iTunes sidebar. Clicking on this section will give you access to all stored media on the iTunes Home Server. If you have an Apple TV, you can also enable Home Sharing in order to enjoy the same local network streaming right to your TV. 1. The first step to setting up your dedicated Mac is to transfer your iTunes library to the machine. There are various ways of doing this, but we have a really easy way outlined in this article.
You can get a list of streaming servers in your lan. You will get a list of the music stored on your firefly music server. You can also connect to a remote music server. Music stream playing. This was a simple intro on how to Setup ITUNES streaming music server for iphone, Ipad and Ipod Using Firefly. You can also configure clients for your windows machines, android phones and any other OS or mobile platform.
Please follow this procedure to configure the Seagate Business NAS as an iTunes server: 1  Log in to Seagate NAS Manager using Seagate NAS Discovery or by entering the IP address of the NAS device in the address bar of a web browser. 2  Select Media from the menu on the left. 3  Select Media Service. 1 Open iTunes. 2  To ensure your library is shared to your local network, open the Preferences options in iTunes. 3  From the menu sidebar in iTunes, looked under Shared for the Seagate Business NAS.
Having a streaming music server for your itunes library or mp3 files is very good. Having a streaming mp3 server at home reduces redundancy and hassle to copy the files to your ipod, ipad, iphone or even an android device. To setup a streaming server for our ipod, ipad, iphone and android we need a software called. You can also connect to a remote music server. Music stream playing. This was a simple intro on how to Setup ITUNES streaming music server for iphone, Ipad and Ipod Using Firefly. You can also configure clients for your windows machines, android phones and any other OS or mobile platform.
Lee Hutchinson. I've got a share on my Synology NAS called Music, and inside that I've created a folder named NAS iTunes. Next, pop into iTunes, open the application preferences pane, and click the Advanced tab. The very first thing in the window is the iTunes Media folder location box. Click the Change button next to the box. You'll get a file picker dialog box, which you should point at the network folder you've previously created. Let's be clear going in: this is not a guide on how to set up an iTunes server. We're not going to describe how to get your music centrally situated and available as an attached library for all your iTunes clients. There are lots of ways to do this, but they just don't stand up over time.