1 For example, the Elks Club in Pennsylvania charges a $75 initiation fee and $40 for the year. 2  In Honolulu, a Yelp member stated the Elks Club here charged a $1,000 initiation fee and $25 per month. 3  Elks members enjoy various privileges. How much is it? 1  A membership is open to American citizens who believe in god and are older than 21. 2  For example, the Elks Club in Pennsylvania charges a $75 initiation fee and $40 for the year. 3  In Honolulu, a Yelp member stated the Elks Club here charged a $1,000 initiation fee and $25 per month.
A: $80 for first child, $80 for second child, $50 each additional child. Q: How to I reserve the Shelter during the pool season? A: There is a fee of $60 for a party that is 2 hours or less, 20 guest or less (swimming and / or non-swimming). If you want your party to be longer than 2 hours, there is a fee of $80 and maximum of 3 hours. If you want to have more than 20 guests, the fee is $5 per person over 20. Elk pool Members and their families are not counted as guests. A non-refundable deposit of $40 is required to reserve the shelter. 
1 A membership is open to American citizens who believe in god and are older than 21. 2  The cost of an Elk Club membership is going to depend on the geographical location. 3  Most locations will have a $50 to $75 application fee and annual fees can be anywhere from as little as $30 to more than $500. How much is it? 1  A membership is open to American citizens who believe in god and are older than 21. 2  For example, the Elks Club in Pennsylvania charges a $75 initiation fee and $40 for the year. 3  In Honolulu, a Yelp member stated the Elks Club here charged a $1,000 initiation fee and $25 per month.
No matter where you go in the country, an Elks Lodge is right around the corner. With more than 850,000 members and 2,000 Lodges nationwide, Elks are providing charitable services that help build stronger communities. Click here to join us in service to your community! The members will be given a notice not less than 10 days nor more than two months before the vote will be taken. When the vote is concluded, you will be notified and asked to present yourself and your spouse for indoctrination. During indoctrination, you will learn more about the Order's programs and charities.
1 The cost of an Elk Club membership is going to depend on the geographical location. 2  Most locations will have a $50 to $75 application fee and annual fees can be anywhere from as little as $30 to more than $500. How much is it? 1  A membership is open to American citizens who believe in god and are older than 21. 2  For example, the Elks Club in Pennsylvania charges a $75 initiation fee and $40 for the year. 3  In Honolulu, a Yelp member stated the Elks Club here charged a $1,000 initiation fee and $25 per month.
To be eligible for membership in the Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks, you must be a citizen of the United States over the age of 21 who believes in God. You must be sponsored by a member of the Elks Lodge and reside in the jurisdiction of the Lodge you wish to join. You also need two other Elks who will be your co-sponsors. The Elk who proposes you for membership must obtain a Membership Application from the Jerome Elks Lodge Secretary. The members will be given a notice not less than 10 days nor more than two months before the vote will be taken. When the vote is concluded, you will be notified and asked to present yourself for indoctrination. During indoctrination, you will learn more about the Order's programs and charities.
Elks Membership. 1  To be eligible for membership in the Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks, you must be a citizen of the United States over the age of 21 who believes in God. 1
To be eligible for membership in any Lodge of the Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks, you must be a citizen of the United States, age 21 years or older, who believes in God. To become a Gateway Elk you must also be sponsored by an Elk member in good standing. The Gateway Elk who proposes you for membership must obtain a Membership Application from the Lodge Secretary and must fill out a section of it.