1 Court fees or fines vary widely depending on the charges and jurisdiction, and are not included in the attorney's fees. 2  Depending on the case, fees for investigators or expert witnesses can be anywhere from $2,000-$7,500 or more, and are in addition to the lawyer's fee. 1 A retainer is an up-front fee you pay to hire your attorney, usually a percentage of the total case fee or the equivalent of several hours work. 2  A lawyer working on an hourly basis deducts that hourly rate from the retainer as the work is done; when the retainer is gone, you are billed for additional payment.
1 A lawyer will almost always want to meet and discuss the specific circumstances of your case before quoting a fee, either an hourly rate ($100-$300) or a flat charge based on the type of case, such as $500-$1,200 for first-time drunk driving charges. 1 A retainer is an up-front fee you pay to hire your attorney, usually a percentage of the total case fee or the equivalent of several hours work. 2  A lawyer working on an hourly basis deducts that hourly rate from the retainer as the work is done; when the retainer is gone, you are billed for additional payment.
The fees charged by criminal defense attorneys in Indianapolis can vary significantly, depending on the circumstances, complexity and specific facts of each case. For misdemeanor cases, an attorney in Indianapolis might typically charge between $300 and $3,000. 
Typical costs: 1  A lawyer may charge a flat fee for a specific phase of the case (such as the preliminary/pretrial hearing and motions) or an hourly rate of $100-$300 or more. 1 If hiring an attorney on a flat fee basis, be sure you understand what is and is not included, and if there will be additional costs if your case goes to trial. 2  Court fees or fines vary widely depending on the charges and location, and are in addition to your attorney's fees.
A retainer fee is initial, lump sum fee charged by misdemeanor lawyers for initial representation of a client and is not associated with the success of the case. Misdemeanor lawyers will often just charge a retainer fee for their services. The cost will vary depending on how the misdemeanor lawyer sees your case. You should expect to pay around $1,000 - $2,000 for representation in a misdemeanor case. This will cover the initial pleading, investigation, collection of necessary documents and the ultimate trial.
Criminal defense lawyers generally either bill through a flat fee or by the hour. If a lawyer charges a flat fee, and the charge is a misdemeanor, expect to pay anywhere between $1,000-$3,000. If there is a possibility of trial, expect to pay between $3,000-$5,000. Expect to pay $150-$700 an hour for a criminal defense lawyer’s time. With an hourly fee structure, it is not uncommon for legal bills to get into the $10,000 - $15,000 range quickly. A lawyer who works on an hourly rate may also require the payment of a retainer.
1 A lawyer may charge a flat fee for a specific phase of the case (such as the preliminary/pretrial hearing and motions) or an hourly rate of $100-$300 or more. 2  Either way, you must pay the attorney an advance fee known as a retainer, based either on all or part of the flat fee or an estimated number of hours. 1 If hiring an attorney on a flat fee basis, be sure you understand what is and is not included, and if there will be additional costs if your case goes to trial. 2  Court fees or fines vary widely depending on the charges and location, and are in addition to your attorney's fees.
Believe it or not, rates may vary anywhere from $50 an hour to a $1,000 an hour or more. In rural areas and small towns, lawyers tend to charge less, and fees in the range of $100 to $200 an hour for an experienced attorney are probably the norm. In major metropolitan areas, the norm is probably closer to $200 to $400 an hour. Lawyers with expertise in specialized areas may charge much more. 
Whether they bill by the hour or by the case, defense lawyers typically want defendants to pay a retainer fee up front, before the attorney begins working on the case. For example, a lawyer who bills at the rate of $100 an hour may want clients to pay up front for 20 hours of the lawyer’s time, or $2,000. Case Billing. Lawyers who charge by the case represent defendants for a fixed fee. For example, a lawyer may set a fee of $1,500 for a defen­dant charged with drunk driving. The fee would not change, regardless of the number of hours the lawyer devotes to the case.
Hourly rates will vary greatly, depending on the relative ability of the lawyer. Expect to pay $150-$700 an hour for a criminal defense lawyer’s time. With an hourly fee structure, it is not uncommon for legal bills to get into the $10,000 - $15,000 range quickly. A lawyer who works on an hourly rate may also require the payment of a retainer.