Clonazepam is a prescription drug that belongs to a group of medications called benzodiazepines. It is used to treat anxiety, panic disorders, mania, spasticity and seizure disorders. The medication works by correcting chemical imbalances in the brain. Specific clonazepam abuse facts are not available. However, the class of drugs that clonazepam belongs to, benzodiazepines, are commonly abused. Typically, people who consume these drugs do so in combination with other drugs or alcohol.
Clonazepam is a benzodiazepine that belongs to the group of medications called central nervous system (CNS) depressants, which slow down the nervous system. Although clonazepam is used for a variety of medical conditions, it is used in multiple sclerosis primarily for the treatment of tremor, pain, and spasticity. 
Klonopin (clonazepam) [Benzo]. Klonopin is a commonly-prescribed benzodiazepine derivative, used as a muscle relaxant and anticonvulsant. Many SAD sufferers find that it benefits them, especially when they need a quick and strong-acting result. 
Clonazepam is the generic form of the brand-name drug Klonopin, prescribed to treat seizures and panic attacks. Clonazepam belongs to a class of drugs called benzodiazepines. Clonazepam works by increasing the effects of GABA, a neurotransmitter that moderates the movement of nerve signals in the brain. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved clonazepam in 1975 under the brand name Klonopin for the Roche drug company. A: Klonopin (clonazepam) is a benzodiazepine that is used to treat anxiety and panic disorders. According to the package insert, it has a half-life of 30-40 hours. The half-life represents the time it takes the body to reduce the amount of clonazepam by half.
A: Klonopin (clonazepam) in a class of drugs called benzodiazepines. Clonazepam affects chemicals in the brain that can become unbalanced and cause anxiety. Clonazepam is commonly used to treat seizure disorders, panic disorders, and other conditions. A: Klonopin (clonazepam) is a benzodiazepine that is used to treat anxiety and panic disorders. According to the package insert, it has a half-life of 30-40 hours. The half-life represents the time it takes the body to reduce the amount of clonazepam by half.
A: Klonopin (clonazepam) (http://www.everydayhealth.com/drugs/klonopin) is a benzodiazepine that affects chemicals in the brain. Klonopin is indicated for anxiety. Common side effects associated with clonazepam include drowsiness, dry mouth, dizziness, and weight changes. A: Klonopin (clonazepam) is a benzodiazepine that is used to treat anxiety and panic disorders. According to the package insert, it has a half-life of 30-40 hours. The half-life represents the time it takes the body to reduce the amount of clonazepam by half.
Descriptions. Clonazepam is used alone or together with other medicines to treat certain seizure (convulsive) disorders (e.g., Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, akinetic or myoclonic seizures). It is also used to treat panic disorder in some patients. Clonazepam is a benzodiazepine. Benzodiazepines belong to the group of medicines called central nervous system (CNS) depressants, which are medicines that slow down the nervous system. This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription.
Benzos refer to a class and drugs called benzodiazepines. Benzodiazepines are central nervous system depressants. Examples of benzodiazepines include Xanax (Alprazolam), Valiu … m (Diazepam), Klonopin (Clonazepam), and Ativan (Lorazepam). There are many more benzodiazepines than the stated here, these are the ones that are generally prescribed most in the United States. 
Clonazepam is a high-potency benzodiazepine with a long half-life. It is widely prescribed for a variety of psychiatric and neurologic conditions. Although clonazepam is perceived as “safe,” addiction medicine specialists have found that it is also frequently abused as a street drug. 