Indications/Applications. Anti-RNP antibody levels are elevated in 100% of patients with MCTD and 38%-44% of patients with SLE. Anti-RNP antibody testing is usually ordered after a positive antinuclear antibody (ANA) finding in a patient with high clinical suspicion for MCTD or SLE. Anti-RNP antibody levels are elevated in 100% of patients with MCTD and 38%-44% of patients with SLE
Clinical course of patients with anti-RNP antibodies. Lundberg I, Hedfors E. Comment in J Rheumatol. 1993 Jul;20(7):1256-8. Thirty-two patients with high and low anti-RNP antibody titers were followed prospectively during a mean observation of 65 months. The following 4 titer patterns were observed: persistently high, low increasing to high, high decreasing to low and persistently low titers.
Anti-RNP antibodies are autoantibodies associated with mixed connective tissue disease and are also detected in nearly 40% of Lupus erythematosus patients. Two types of anti-RNP antibodies are closely related to Sjoegren'sjögren s: SYNDROME-Ss (A) ro AND-Ss (B). la 
An elevated anti-RNP level is necessary for the diagnosis of MCTD; it has a sensitivity of 95%-100%, especially if it is found in high titers (ie, 1:1,000,000) and in isolation (ie without other extractable nuclear antigens such as anti-double stranded DNA). Anti-RNP antibody levels are elevated in 100% of patients with MCTD and 38%-44% of patients with SLE.
RNP antibodies (also known as anti-u1 or ribonucleoprotein antibodies) are found in 45% of SLE patients but are also observed in numerous other disease states such as Sjoegren'sjögren s, syndrome scleroderma and. Polymyositis elevated levels of antibodies TO rnp are seen in mixed connective tissue. disease Antibodies to Sm are highly specific for systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and when present are considered a marker antibody. However, these antibodies are found in only 20% of patients with SLE. RNP antibodies (also known as anti-u1 or ribonucleoprotein antibodies) are found in 45% of SLE patients but are also observed in numerous other disease states such as Sjoegren'sjögren s, syndrome scleroderma and. polymyositis
Interpretation. A normal anti-RNP antibody value is negative and virtually excludes the diagnosis of mixed connective-tissue disease (MCTD). An elevated value is associated with different connective-tissue diseases to varying extents. Anti-RNP antibody levels are elevated in 100% of patients with MCTD and 38%-44% of patients with SLE.
Elevated levels of antibodies to RNP are seen in mixed connective tissue disease. In SLE, RNP antibodies have been associated with a relatively benign disease course with lower incidence of renal and central nervous system involvement. Patients may be considered positive for RNP antibodies when the RNP antibody result is significantly higher than the Sm antibody result. Antibodies to Sm are highly specific for systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and when present are considered a marker antibody. However, these antibodies are found in only 20% of patients with SLE. RNP antibodies (also known as anti-u1 or ribonucleoprotein antibodies) are found in 45% of SLE patients but are also observed in numerous other disease states such as Sjoegren'sjögren s, syndrome scleroderma and. polymyositis
Sera that contain RNP antibodies react predominately with the A and 68 kD autoantigens. Antibodies to RNP occur in approximately 50% of patients with lupus erythematosus (LE) and in patients with other connective tissue diseases, notably mixed connective tissue disease (MCTD). RNP (also called nRNP and U1RNP) is a small nuclear ribonucleoprotein that contains 3 protein autoantigens (called A, C, and 68 kD).