Disease: The most common infection involving Proteus mirabilis occurs when the bacteria moves to the urethra and urinary bladder. Although Proteus mirabilis mostly known to cause urinary tract infections, the majority of urinary tract infections are due to E. coli. When this organism, however, enters the urinary tract, wounds, or the lungs it can become pathogenic. Proteus mirabilis commonly causes urinary tract infections and the formation of stones. Microbiological Characteristics: Proteus mirabilis is part of the Enterobacteriaceae family.
Complicated Urinary Tract Infection. P. mirabilis is not a common cause of UTI in the normal host [12]. Surveys of uncomplicated cystitis or acute pyelonephritis show that P. mirabilis comprises only a few percent of cases. Even in patients with recurrent UTI, the incidence of infections by this organism is only a few percentage points higher. 
The specific infections caused by P. mirabilis include Pyelonephritis, or kidney infection; systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) which has a high mortality rate; prostatitis, the inflammation of the prostate gland in men, and if it enters the lungs, P. mirabilis can cause pneumonia. Proteus mirabilis is a gram-negative and rod shaped bacterium. It causes Proteus mirabilis infection in humans. The bacterium produces excess levels of urease, which breakes down urea into ammonia.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Proteus vulgaris is a rod-shaped, nitrate-reducing, indole+ and catalase-positive, hydrogen sulfide-producing, Gram-negative bacterium that inhabits the intestinal tracts of humans and animals. It can be found in soil, water, and fecal matter. Over the past two decades, the genus Proteus, and in particular P. vulgaris, has undergone a number of major taxonomic revisions. In 1982, P. vulgaris was separated into three biogroups on the basis of indole production.
Proteus mirabilis causes 90% of Proteus infections and can be considered a community-acquired infection. Proteus vulgaris and Proteus penneri are easily isolated from individuals in long-term care facilities and hospitals and from patients with underlying diseases or compromised immune systems. Proteus species are most commonly found in the human intestinal tract as part of normal human intestinal flora, along with Escherichia coli and Klebsiella species, of which E coli is the predominant resident. Proteus is also found in multiple environmental habitats, including long-term care facilities and hospitals.
Life History: Proteus mirabilis is part of the normal flora of the human gastrointestinal tract. It can also be found free living in water and soil. When this organism, however, enters the urinary tract, wounds, or the lungs it can become pathogenic. Proteus mirabilis commonly causes urinary tract infections and the formation of stones. Microbiological Characteristics: Proteus mirabilis is part of the Enterobacteriaceae family.
UTIs are the most common clinical manifestation of Proteus infections. Proteus infection accounts for 1%-2% of UTIs in healthy women and 5% of hospital-acquired UTIs. Complicated UTIs (ie, those associated with catheterization) have a prevalence of 20%-45%. Because Proteus and Pseudomonas organisms are gram-negative bacilli, they can cause gram-negative endotoxin-induced sepsis, resulting in systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS), which carries a mortality rate of 20%-50%.
Proteus species are part of the Enterobacteriaceae family of gram-negative bacilli. Proteus organisms are implicated as serious causes of infections in humans, along with Escherichia, Klebsiella, Enterobacter, and Serratia species. Because Proteus and Pseudomonas organisms are gram-negative bacilli, they can cause gram-negative endotoxin-induced sepsis, resulting in systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS), which carries a mortality rate of 20%-50%.
UTIs are the most common clinical manifestation of Proteus infections. Proteus infection accounts for 1%-2% of UTIs in healthy women and 5% of hospital-acquired UTIs. Complicated UTIs (ie, those associated with catheterization) have a prevalence of 20%-45%. Proteus species are most commonly found in the human intestinal tract as part of normal human intestinal flora, along with Escherichia coli and Klebsiella species, of which E coli is the predominant resident. Proteus is also found in multiple environmental habitats, including long-term care facilities and hospitals.
Proteus Illnesses. Proteus sp can, however, certainly cause illness! Most commonly they cause urinary tract infections, especially in women, although they can also infect other body sites and men as well. Over 90% of Proteus infections are caused by P. mirabilis but P. vulgaris can certainly cause infection too. 