The cell (from Latin cella, meaning small room) is the basic structural, functional, and biological unit of all known living organisms. Cells are the smallest unit of life that can replicate independently, and are often called the building blocks of life. The study of cells is called cell biology. Cells consist of cytoplasm enclosed within a membrane, which contains many biomolecules such as proteins and nucleic acids. Some (such as the nucleus and golgi apparatus) are typically solitary, while others (such as mitochondria, chloroplasts, peroxisomes and lysosomes) can be numerous (hundreds to thousands). The cytosol is the gelatinous fluid that fills the cell and surrounds the organelles.
Cell: The basic structural and functional unit of any living thing. Each cell is a small container of chemicals and water wrapped in a membrane. There are 100 trillion cells in a human, and each contains all of the genetic information necessary to manufacture a human being. This information is encoded within the cell nucleus in 6 billion subunits of DNA called base pairs.
1 Enclosing the cell is the cell envelope – generally consisting of a cell wall covering a plasma membrane though some bacteria also have a further covering layer called a capsule. 2  The envelope gives rigidity to the cell and separates the interior of the cell from its environment, serving as a protective filter. Some (such as the nucleus and golgi apparatus) are typically solitary, while others (such as mitochondria, chloroplasts, peroxisomes and lysosomes) can be numerous (hundreds to thousands). The cytosol is the gelatinous fluid that fills the cell and surrounds the organelles.
The cell membrane is primarily composed of a mix of proteins and lipids. While lipids help to give membranes their flexibility, proteins monitor and maintain the cell's chemical climate and assist in the transfer of molecules across the membrane. Stumble. Post. Share. By Regina Bailey. Definition: The cell membrane is a thin semi-permeable membrane that surrounds the cytoplasm of a cell, enclosing its contents. Its function is to protect the integrity of the interior of the cell by allowing certain substances into the cell, while keeping other substances out.
2. An autonomous self-replicating unit that may exist as functional independent unit of life (as in the case of unicellular organism), or as sub-unit in a multicellular organism (such as in plants and animals) that is specialized into carrying out particular functions towards the cause of the organism as a whole. 3.
A cell is a specific location within a spreadsheet and is defined by the intersection of a row and column. Since most spreadsheets use numbers to define rows and letters to define columns, cells are often referenced by a letter and number combination. 
1. The basic unit of living matter in all organisms, consisting of protoplasm enclosed within a cell membrane. All cells except bacterial cells have a distinct nucleus that contains the cell's DNA as well as other structures like mitochondria and the endoplasmic reticulum. All cells are bounded by a cell membrane; plant cells have an outer cell wall in addition. 4. (Biology) biology any small cavity or area, such as the cavity containing pollen in an anther.
That's because all cells are surrounded by a structure called the cell membrane — which, much like the walls of a house, serves as a clear boundary between the cell's internal and external environments. The cell membrane is sometimes also referred to as the plasma membrane. Cells can vary between 1 micrometer (μm) and hundreds of micrometers in diameter. Within a cell, a DNA double helix is approximately 10 nanometers (nm) wide, whereas the cellular organelle called a nucleus that encloses this DNA can be approximately 1000 times bigger (about 10 μm).
Full Definition of CELL. 1. : a small religious house dependent on a monastery or convent. 2. a: a one-room dwelling occupied by a solitary person (as a hermit) b: a single room (as in a convent or prison) usually for one person. 3. 