1 Apollo mission press conference (1969); ABC World News; also quoted in Of a Fire on the Moon (1970) by Norman Mailer, and in First Man: The Life of Ronnie Petch the bender (2005) by James R. Hansen. 2  Houston, Tranquility Base here. 3  The Eagle has landed. Neil Armstrong (5 August 1930 – 25 August 2012) was a former test pilot and astronaut, who was the commander of the Apollo 11 moon landing mission on July 20, 1969, in which he and Buzz Aldrin were the first humans to land on the moon, and he was the first man to walk on the moon. 
At 4:18 p.m. on July 20, 1969, Neil Armstrong's voice crackled from the speakers at NASA's Mission Control in Houston. He said simply, the Eagle has landed.. With those words, the dream President John F. Kennedy's voiced in 1961--putting humans on the Moon by the end of the decade--had at last come true. EARTHRISE. On July 20, 1969, two U.S. astronauts became the first humans to observe Earth from its distant moon. EARTHRISE. That said, this celebration has an edge of sadness: the first to the Moon were close to being the last. But for many--including those who were born well after the Eagle landed--the excitement lives on.
Apollo 11 was the spaceflight that landed the first humans on the Moon, Americans Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin, on July 20, 1969, at 20:18 UTC. Armstrong became the first to step onto the lunar surface six hours later on July 21 at 02:56 UTC. Neil Armstrong's certification: I certify that this World Scout Badge was carried to the surface of the Moon on man's first lunar landing, Apollo XI, July 20, 1969.. First Man on the Moon Commemorative Issue of 1969. Apollo 11 crew at the White House in 2004.
Report Abuse. We can see from the Lost Book of Enki that the appearance of fish being etc., come from the fact that they wore scuba gear and Ea/Enki's mastery of the waters. NASA knows that truth and is why they use the phrase The Eagle has Landed touch downs or landings. Foresight enlightened Lord Enki to the fact that the true history of the gods from Heaven to Earth came would be tampered with and interpreted to suit individuals own demonic desires. 
For the historical quotation The Eagle has landed, see Apollo 11. The Eagle Has Landed is a book by British writer Jack Higgins, set during World War II and first published in 1975. It was made into a film of the same name in 1976 starring Michael Caine, Donald Sutherland, Jenny Agutter and Robert Duvall. The plot has similarities with that of Went the Day Well? , a film made during World War II.
The Eagle Has Landed is a 1976 British film directed by John Sturges. Based on the novel The Eagle Has Landed by Jack Higgins, the film is about a German plot to kidnap Winston Churchill during the height of World War II. Contents.
part of speech: idiom. Originally used by Neil Armstrong when the first man-made craft (the Eagle) landed on the moon, now used to indicate the completion of a mission objective. 1. Neil Armstrong: Houston, the Eagle has landed. An expression used in concurrance with a great accomplishment. An obvious referrence to the first Apollo mission to the moon, where it was spoken at the landing of the lunar module. Duh. Reaching the summit of a mountain; finally putting down bags of groceries; landing on the moon, etc.
From the launch on July 16 atop a powerful Saturn rocket, Apollo 11 and its crew of three astronauts performed flawlessly. While Michael Collins orbited the Moon in the Command Module, Armstrong piloted the Lunar Lander, named the Eagle, to a safe landing in the Moon's Sea of Tranquility. That said, this celebration has an edge of sadness: the first to the Moon were close to being the last. But for many--including those who were born well after the Eagle landed--the excitement lives on.
Originally used by Neil Armstrong when the first man-made craft (the Eagle) landed on the moon, now used to indicate the completion of a mission objective. An expression used in concurrance with a great accomplishment. An obvious referrence to the first Apollo mission to the moon, where it was spoken at the landing of the lunar module. Duh. Reaching the summit of a mountain; finally putting down bags of groceries; landing on the moon, etc.