The category of synthetic drugs is one that is very hard to pin down, due to the speed at which this category is expanding. In the last dozen years, the list of synthetic drugs being abused in the US has grown enormously. So the signs and symptoms of synthetics abuse will have a very wide range. Symptoms of use of this class of drug is enough to create alarm in parents, medical professionals, law enforcement officials and lawmakers.
The synthetics class includes drugs like those called “bath salts” and those sold as synthetic marijuana. Both these types of drug are sold in deceptive packaging, being labeled as plant food, fish food, “soothing bath salts,” incense or potpourri. They have imaginative and fancy names. In the last dozen years, the list of synthetic drugs being abused in the US has grown enormously. So the signs and symptoms of synthetics abuse will have a very wide range. Symptoms of use of this class of drug is enough to create alarm in parents, medical professionals, law enforcement officials and lawmakers.
Most synthetic drugs, such as synthetic marijuana (also known as Spice, K2), bath salts and Ecstasy, are created in laboratories and are made to mimic naturally occurring drugs or provide an alternative that doesn’t cause the same side effects. Unfortunately, users of synthetic drugs believe the substances to be harmless. The problem with synthetic drugs such as Spice is that by the time the user is aware of any potential problems, it’s often too late to do anything about it. Regular use of synthetic marijuana or bath salts eventually leads to addiction
Overview and History. Synthetic cannabinoids, commonly known as “synthetic marijuana,” “K2,” or “Spice”, are often sold in legal retail outlets as “herbal incense” or “potpourri”, and synthetic cathinones are often sold as “bath salts” or “jewelry cleaner”. Synthetic cannabinoids laced on plant material were first reported in the U.S. in December 2008, when a shipment of “Spice” was seized and analyzed by U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) in Dayton, Ohio. There is an increasingly expanding array of synthetic drugs available.
While methamphetamine and MDMA -- also known as ecstasy or molly -- are technically synthetic drugs because they are made entirely from chemicals, the term synthetic drugs usually refers to bath salts and synthetic marijuana that are often sold in stores and online as household items. There is no exact definition, because the term is used to describe a wide range of chemical products that are ever-changing. Synthetic marijuana and bath salts are the most common of these drugs, which are often sold as incense or plant food.
Similar to the adverse effects of cocaine, LSD, and methamphetamine, synthetic cathinone use is associated with increased heart rate and blood pressure, chest pain, extreme paranoia, hallucinations, delusions, and violent behavior, which causes users to harm themselves or others. Synthetic cannabinoids laced on plant material were first reported in the U.S. in December 2008, when a shipment of “Spice” was seized and analyzed by U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) in Dayton, Ohio. There is an increasingly expanding array of synthetic drugs available.
There’s “bath salts,” there’s synthetic marijuana and there’s drugs that used to be called “designer drugs.” Now all these classes of drugs are starting to be grouped together with the designation “synthetics.”. Synthetic marijuana is sold as Spice or K2 or one of a dozen other names. Effects of Synthetics. The new synthetic drugs that are making the rounds of drug-using markets are some of the most destructive drugs available today.
Synthetic cannabis (synthetic marijuana), or technically synthetic cannabinoid receptor agonists are designer drugs that mimic the effects of cannabis sprayed onto a herbal base material. When synthetic cannabis blends first went on sale in the early 2000s, it was thought that they achieved an effect through a mixture of natural herbs.