Cost Engineer Salary. Cost Engineer average salary is $60,130, median salary is $56,950 with a salary range from $27,477 to $176,800. Cost Engineer salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Cost Engineer salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. 
/ no comments. Cost engineers make a pretty decent salary, and their job is in high demand. All sorts of organizations, individuals, and companies need cost engineers to help make their projects more potentially successful. The salaries range from $58,000 to $123,000. Corporations employ a lot of cost engineers. Doing the cost allocation, planning, and budgeting for projects is a serious task that is incredibly important to the success of companies’ product offerings. It is critical that the project estimates are accurate and precise.
Median of all compensation (including tips, bonus, and overtime) by years of experience. For many Cost Engineers, more experience generally translates to higher pay. The average beginner in this position makes around $67K, but folks who have been around for five to 10 years see a markedly higher median salary of $82K. On average, Cost Engineers make $95K following one to two decades on the job. For those looking to make money, Cost Engineers in Baton Rouge enjoy an exceptional pay rate, 26 percent above the national average. Cost Engineers will also find cushy salaries in Houston (+13 percent), Richland (+11 percent), Auburn Hills (+9 percent), and San Francisco (+8 percent).
(United Kingdom). A Cost Engineer earns an average salary of £34,904 per year. Experience has a moderate effect on pay for this job. A skill in Project Management is associated with high pay for this job. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 20 years' experience in this field. 
Average Cost Engineer salaries for job postings nationwide are 47% higher than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Cost Engineer I-Construction in the United States is $53,212, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Cost Engineer I-Construction in the United States are expected to make less than $53,212. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Cost Engineer I-Construction that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Cost Engineer I-Construction are expected to make less than the median.
Average Cost Engineer Salaries. The average salary for cost engineer jobs is $74,000. Average cost engineer salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term cost engineer anywhere in the job listing. 
Cost engineers make a pretty decent salary, and their job is in high demand. All sorts of organizations, individuals, and companies need cost engineers to help make their projects more potentially successful. The salaries range from $58,000 to $123,000. Corporations employ a lot of cost engineers. 
Pay for Cost Engineers in the United States sits in the ballpark of $78K per year. Total cash compensation for Cost Engineers runs from $51K to $123K depending on bonuses that can occasionally exceed $10K and profit sharing that can reach almost $8K. For those looking to make money, Cost Engineers in Baton Rouge enjoy an exceptional pay rate, 26 percent above the national average. Cost Engineers will also find cushy salaries in Houston (+13 percent), Richland (+11 percent), Auburn Hills (+9 percent), and San Francisco (+8 percent).
The annual salary for someone with the job title Cost Engineer I-Construction may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Cost Engineer I-Construction that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Cost Engineer I-Construction are expected to make less than the median.