As a species of Allium, shallots taste somewhat like a common onion, but have a milder flavor. Like onions and garlic, when sliced, raw shallots release substances that irritate the human eye, resulting in production of tears. Shallots appear to contain more flavonoids and phenols than other members of the onion genus. Whole shallot plant, consist of roots, bulbs, leaves, stalks, and flowers. Like garlic, shallots are formed in clusters of offsets with a head composed of multiple cloves. The skin colour of shallots can vary from golden brown to gray to rose red, and their off-white flesh is usually tinged with green or magenta.
Dutch Varieties. The flavor of Dutch shallot varieties is stronger and more like an onion than other shallot varieties. They feature orange-yellow skin and yellow-to cream-colored flesh with blubs that tend to be rounder and smaller, averaging about 2 inches in diameter. 
The shallot is a type of onion, specifically a botanical variety of the species Allium cepa. Whole shallot plant, consist of roots, bulbs, leaves, stalks, and flowers. Like garlic, shallots are formed in clusters of offsets with a head composed of multiple cloves. The skin colour of shallots can vary from golden brown to gray to rose red, and their off-white flesh is usually tinged with green or magenta.
Shallots have a mild taste which is a mix of sweet onion flavor and a touch of garlic. Summary: 1. Shallots grow as a cluster of bulbs from a single planted bulb similar to garlic while onions grow as a single big bulb per plant. 2. Shallots are a lot smaller compared to onions. 3. The common onion is Allium cepa while the commonly accepted shallot is Allium ascalonicum. 4.
Diffen › Food › Fruits and Vegetables. Shallots have a milder taste and odor than onions, so shallots are more commonly eaten raw. However, when cooked, shallots can lose their flavor quickly, and so onions are preferable in cooked food like stir fries. Onions are also crunchier than shallots. 
A member of the onion family, but formed more like garlic than onions. Shallots are favored for their mild onion flavor, and can be used in the same manner as onions. A shallot looks like a small, elongated onion with a copper, reddish, or gray skin. When peeled, shallots separate into into cloves like garlic. There are two main types of shallots: Jersey or false shallots (larger) and true shallots (more subtle flavor
— Jaime Dagenais, Boca Raton, FL. Shallots, like onions and garlic, are a member of the allium family, but their flavor is richer, sweeter, yet more potent. Like garlic, they grow in clusters, with several bulbs attached at the base. You'll recognize them by their coppery skins and their off-white flesh, which is usually tinged with magenta. 
A sweeter, milder relative of the onion. Shallots have a delicate, mild flavor and grow in the same way as garlic, in that you might find two or three held together at the root when you peel one. Because shallots are much milder than onions, if a recipe calls for shallots that is what you should use. 
In Cambodian (Khmer), shallots are called katem kror hom, where katem or ktem is a species of onion, and kror hom or hom meaning red, describes their colour. The name shallot is also used for the Persian shallot (A. stipitatum) , from the Zagros Mountains in Iran and Iraq. Whole shallot plant, consist of roots, bulbs, leaves, stalks, and flowers. Like garlic, shallots are formed in clusters of offsets with a head composed of multiple cloves. The skin colour of shallots can vary from golden brown to gray to rose red, and their off-white flesh is usually tinged with green or magenta.
Taxonomically, there is no such thing as a true shallot. Many people confuse shallots with green onions, scallions and leeks. The young green onion has a definite bulb formation with the same concentric arrangement that the dry onion has. Raw shallots have a strong pungency, stronger than most onions. Their true character comes when lightly sauteed in butter until they are translucent in colour or when used in gravies and creamy sauces. It is very difficult to evaluate shallot quality in the raw form.