Our native language is Icelandic. It's a Germanic language, a bit similar to Norwegian, Swedish, Danish and Faroese (which is spoken in Faroe Islands). Icelandic is very similar to the language that used to be spoken in Scandinavia 1000 years ago. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: They speak Icelandic which is a Northern German language. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iceland http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Icelandic_l...
[1] Icelandic is the official language of Iceland. [2] But students are required to learn Danish and English in school. They tend to speak the two languages as well as t … hey speak their own Icelandic. [3] German, Norwegian, and Swedish tend to be the other languages that Icelanders know. --    The only languages spoken in Iceland, *besides Icelandic* are only languages you might expect from immigrants, about 7% of the population, in 2008.
Icelandic /aɪsˈlaendɪk/ (aɪsˈlændɪk (islenska·íslenska)) help info Is A north, germanic language the Language. Of iceland it Is-An indo european language belonging To The north Germanic or nordic branch Of the. Germanic, languages historically it was the westernmost Of-The indo european languages prior to the colonisation Of. the americas While 97% of the population of Iceland consider Icelandic their mother tongue, the language is in decline in some communities outside Iceland, particularly in Canada. Icelandic speakers outside Iceland represent recent emigration in almost all cases except Gimli, which was settled from the 1880s onwards.
The language. The official language of Iceland is Icelandic. Icelandic has been spoken in Iceland since the country was settled, in the 9 th century, and has changed little since then.
Some Icelandic people may speak … Norwegian, Danish or Swedish, but it all depends.    --    The only languages spoken in Iceland, *besides Icelandic* are only languages you might expect from immigrants, about 7% of the population, in 2008. A large portion of these immigrants were non-permanent workers of some sort mainly from Poland, Lithuania or Thailand.
Language. Icelandic is the official language of Iceland. It is an Indo-European language, belonging to the sub-group of North Germanic languages. It is closely related to Norwegian and Faroese, although there are slight traces of Celtic influence in ancient Icelandic literature.
Icelandic /aɪsˈlaendɪk/ (aɪsˈlændɪk (islenska·íslenska)) help info Is A north, germanic language the Language. Of iceland it Is-An indo european language belonging To The north Germanic or nordic branch Of the. germanic languages While 97% of the population of Iceland consider Icelandic their mother tongue, the language is in decline in some communities outside Iceland, particularly in Canada. Icelandic speakers outside Iceland represent recent emigration in almost all cases except Gimli, which was settled from the 1880s onwards.
People in Iceland do not speak Danish, they speak their own Scandinavian language called Icelandic. It’s one of the most unchanged languages in the world, thanks to Iceland’s geographic isolation. It is similar to Old Norse, which was spoken by the original settlers. Most people also speak English, German, or another Scandinavian language. Iceland’s parliament, the Althing, is the oldest unicameral, or one-house legislature in the world. It has been meeting since A.D. 930.
There are no other official languages in Iceland, but like all the Scandinavian countries, they speak English and usually at a very good level. --    The only languages spoken in Iceland, *besides Icelandic* are only languages you might expect from immigrants, about 7% of the population, in 2008.
Report Abuse. They speak Icelandic, it´s an old Anglo-Saxon language. Iceland is a part of Scandinavia (Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden) and we usually understand each other in Scandinavian (not a real language, but a mixture of all those languages, as many of the words are the same or alike). Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: They speak Icelandic which is a Northern German language. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iceland http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Icelandic_l...