A router (/ˈraʊtə/ , also /-ər/) is a tool used to rout out (hollow out) an area in the face of a relatively hard workpiece, typically of wood or plastic. The main application of routers is in woodworking, especially cabinetry. The router is most commonly used as a plunging tool and also inverted in a router table. 
With the cable modem, router and your computer’s power off, unplug the cable modem from the back of your computer and plug it into the back of router where it is labeled WAN or Internet. The router will come with an extra network cable. Note: Most cable modems do not come with routers, while DSL modems usually have routers already built-in. To determine if you are currently being protected with a router, simply follow these easy steps: 1  Click Start in the lower left corner of your computer.
The most familiar type of routers are home and small office routers that simply pass data, such as web pages, email, IM, and videos between the home computers and the Internet. An example of a router would be the owner's cable or DSL router, which connects to the Internet through an ISP. A router is connected to two or more data lines from different networks (as opposed to a network switch, which connects data lines from one single network). When a data packet comes in on one of the lines, the router reads the address information in the packet to determine its ultimate destination
Creative Crop/Photodisc/Getty Images. Definition: Routers are small physical devices that join multiple networks together. Technically, a router is a Layer 3 gateway device, meaning that it connects two or more networks and that the router operates at the network layer of the OSI model. 
A router is a small device that sits between your modem and computer. Most routers are about the same size and shape as a modem. The purpose of the router is to take the information from the modem and deliver it to your computer. But that’s not the cool part. Speeds-Think of speeds like you would in a car. The better the router (car), the faster it’ll (probably) go. However, just because your car says it can do 120mph doesn’t mean that you can, or will top it out. You have other things to worry about like the laws, traffic/congestion, etc. Router speeds are kind of the same.
A router has a lot more capabilities than other network devices such as a hub or a switch which are only able to perform basic network functions. For example, a hub is often used to transfer data between computers or network devices, but does not analyze or do anything with the data it is transferring. Core router= A core router is a router in a computer network that routes data within a network but not between networks. Edge router= An edge Router is a router in a computer network that routes data between one or more networks. Virtual router= A Virtual Router is a backup router used in a VRRP setup.
A router is a networking device that forwards data packets between computer networks. Routers perform the traffic directing functions on the Internet. A data packet is typically forwarded from one router to another through the networks that constitute the internetwork until it reaches its destination node. A router is connected to two or more data lines from different networks (as opposed to a network switch, which connects data lines from one single network). When a data packet comes in on one of the lines, the router reads the address information in the packet to determine its ultimate destination
For detailed information about this type of router see How Routers Work. Home Network Broadband Router. The typical home or small office router also does the same function as the network engineering router and it connects 2 networks, your network and the Internet. However it also does a number of other things that are are not all standard router functions. It has the following features: 1  switch. 2  ip sharing
Another reason to buy a router is so that you can operate a laptop wirelessly in your home. You’d want to make sure that the router you buy is setup for wireless (although I think most are, if not all) and that you have a wireless card, USB or wireless built into your laptop or computer. Routers also add another level of security to your connection. Speeds-Think of speeds like you would in a car. The better the router (car), the faster it’ll (probably) go. However, just because your car says it can do 120mph doesn’t mean that you can, or will top it out. You have other things to worry about like the laws, traffic/congestion, etc. Router speeds are kind of the same.