Meaning of name Rudra, Origin of name Rudra, Personality of name Rudra, Gallery of Cute Indian Baby Pictures of Rudra and adorable Baby boy Photos of Rudra. All this and lots more... If you believe in Numerology, click to see if the name Rudra is lucky! 
Show similar names Show variant names. In Local: रुद्र; ਰੁਦ੍ਰਾ; রুদ্রা; ರುದ್ರಾ; ; രുദ്രാ; ருத்ரா; రుద్రా; રુદ્રા. Name Rudra generally means Goddess Parvati or Consort of lord Shiva or Crying, is of Sanskrit, Indian origin, Name Rudra is a Unisex name, which means both Boy and Girl can have this name. Name Rudra is associated to God/Goddess Shiva, Durga / Parvati. Find qualities of Librans (Tula) or Find Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Rudra or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday or Find compatibility of Tula (Libra) with other zodiac signs.
Meaning of Indian name: Rudra. Meaning of the name Rudra is 'Parvati, consort of Shiva; crying'. Rudra is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for females. The name number for Rudra is '8'. Click here to get the numerological analysis for the name 'Rudra'
The different meanings of the name Rudra are: The meaning of the name “Rudra” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Rudra are: 1  Sanskrit meaning: Remover of pain. 2  Indian
Meaning of Rudra. Indian name. In Indian, the name Rudra means-shiva.The name Rudra originated as an Indian name. The name Rudra is most often used as a boy name or male name. Indian Name Meaning-shiva. Origin-Indi
Indian Meaning: The name Rudra is an Indian baby name. In Indian the meaning of the name Rudra is: Howls. SoulUrge Number: 4. Expression Number: 8. People with this name have a deep inner desire for order and physical creativity, and want to be involved in conventional, safe activities. People with this name are competent, practical, and often obtain great power and wealth.
The Hindu god Shiva shares several features with the Rudra: the theonym Shiva originated as an epithet of Rudra, the adjective shiva (kind) being used euphemistically of Rudra, who also carries the epithet Aghora, Abhayankar (extremely calm [ sic ] non terrifying). The word  rudraksha  (Sanskrit: rudrākşa = rudra and akşa eye), or eye of Rudra, is used as a name both for the berry of the Rudraksha tree, and a name for a string of the prayer beads made from those seeds.
The name has been translated as the roarer. In the Rigveda, Rudra has been praised as the mightiest of the mighty. The Shri Rudram hymn from the Yajurveda is dedicated to Rudra, and is important in the Saivism sect. The word  rudraksha  (Sanskrit: rudrākşa = rudra and akşa eye), or eye of Rudra, is used as a name both for the berry of the Rudraksha tree, and a name for a string of the prayer beads made from those seeds.