Definition of NOLLE PROSEQUI. : an entry on the record of a legal action denoting that the prosecutor or plaintiff will proceed no further in an action or suit either as a whole or as to some count or as to one or more of several defendants. ADVERTISEMENT.
An entry made on the record, by which the prosecutor or plaintiff declares that he will proceed no further. 2. A nolle prosequi may be entered either in a criminal or a civil case. 6. In civil cases, a nolle prosequi may be entered as to one of several counts; 7 Wend. 301; or to one of several defendants; 1 Pet. R. 80; as in the case of a joint contract, where one of two defendants pleads infancy, the plaintiff may enter a nolle prosequi, as to him, and proceed against the other.
The term nolle prosequi is used in reference to a formal entry upon the record made by a plaintiff in a civil lawsuit or a prosecutor in a criminal action in which that individual declares that he or she wishes to discontinue the action as to certain defendants, certain issues, or altogether. NOLLE PROSEQUI, practice. An entry made on the record, by which the prosecutor or plaintiff declares that he will proceed no further. 2. A nolle prosequi may be entered either in a criminal or a civil case.
Nolle Prosequi Law & Legal Definition. Nolle prosequi is a Latin term meaning we shall no longer prosecute. It is a declaration made by a prosecutor in a criminal case or by a plaintiff in a civil lawsuit either before or during trial, meaning the case against the defendant is being dropped. In civil cases, a nolle prosequi may be entered as to one of several counts or to one of several defendants. In a criminal case, it has been held improper for a court to enter an order of nolle prosequi on it's own without a motion by the prosecutor.
Nolle Prosequi is Latin for we shall no longer prosecute, which is a declaration made to the judge by a prosecutor in a criminal case (or by a plaintiff in a civil lawsuit) either before or during trial, meaning the case against the defendant is being dropped. Nolle prosequi is a fancy latin term used in the legal context to describe a resolution of a criminal matter where the prosecution declines to prosecute.
NOLLE PROSEQUI. An entry made on the record, by which the prosecutor or plaintiff declares that he will proceed no further. A nolle prosequi may be entered either in a criminal or a civil case. In civil cases, a nolle prosequi may be entered as to one of several counts or to one of several defendants as in the case of a joint contract, where one of two defendants pleads infancy, the plaintiff may enter a nolle prosequi as to him and proceed against the other. --b--. Google+.
nolle prosequi. (no-lay pro-say-kwee) n. Latin for we shall no longer prosecute, which is a declaration made to the judge by a prosecutor in a criminal case (or by a plaintiff in a civil lawsuit) either before or during trial, meaning the case against the defendant is being dropped. 6. In civil cases, a nolle prosequi may be entered as to one of several counts; 7 Wend. 301; or to one of several defendants; 1 Pet. R. 80; as in the case of a joint contract, where one of two defendants pleads infancy, the plaintiff may enter a nolle prosequi, as to him, and proceed against the other.