DNA polymerase is the primary enzyme responsible for DNA  replication. Two of its major roles are: the polymerization of  dNTP's or deoxyribonucleotides, and to proofread th … e new copies. 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body. 
Daughter strand-Refers to the newly synthesized strand of DNA that is copied via the addition of complementary nucleotides from one strand of pre-existing DNA during DNA replication. DNA Helicase-The enzyme responsible for separating the two strands of DNA in a helix so that they can be copied during DNA replication. DNA Ligase-The enzyme responsible for sealing together breaks or nicks in a DNA strand. Responsible for patching together Okazaki fragments on the lagging strand during DNA replication. Parent strand-In DNA replication, refers to the pre-existing single strand of DNA that is copied into a new strand of DNA via complementary base pairing. Pyrophosphate-A two phosphate-containing molecule.
In the simplest sense, expressing a gene means manufacturing its corresponding protein, and this multilayered process has two major steps. In the first step, the information in DNA is transferred to a messenger RNA (mRNA) molecule by way of a process called transcription. During transcription, the enzyme RNA polymerase (green) uses DNA as a template to produce a pre-mRNA transcript (pink). The pre-mRNA is processed to form a mature mRNA molecule that can be translated to build the protein molecule (polypeptide) encoded by the original gene.
DNA polymerase is the primary enzyme responsible for DNA  replication. Two of its major roles are: the polymerization of  dNTP's or deoxyribonucleotides, and to proofread th … e new copies. Answered. In Health. 
Gene expression is the process by which information from a gene is used in the synthesis of a functional gene product. These products are often proteins, but in non-protein coding genes such as transfer RNA (tRNA) or small nuclear RNA (snRNA) genes, the product is a functional RNA. The production of RNA copies of the DNA is called transcription, and is performed in the nucleus by RNA polymerase, which adds one RNA nucleotide at a time to a growing RNA strand. This RNA is complementary to the template 3' → 5' DNA strand, which is itself complementary to the coding 5' → 3' DNA strand.
Primase-The enzyme responsible for initiating synthesis of RNA primers on the lagging strand during DNA replication. Holoenzyme-A term used to describe a collection of different enzymes that work together in a given process such as DNA replication. Parent strand-In DNA replication, refers to the pre-existing single strand of DNA that is copied into a new strand of DNA via complementary base pairing. Pyrophosphate-A two phosphate-containing molecule.
DNA is composed of repeating units called nucelotides or nucleotide bases. DNA polymerase is responsible for the process of DNA replication, during which a double-stranded DNA molecule is copied into two identical DNA molecules. DNA polymerase / DNAP. DNA polymerase (DNAP) is a type of enzyme that is responsible for forming new copies of DNA, in the form of nucleic acid molecules. Nucleic acids are polymers, which are large molecules made up of smaller, repeating units that are chemically connected to one another.
DNA Replication is Semi-Conservative. DNA replication is said to be semi-conservative: that is to say, each of the two strands serves as a template for the biosynthesis of a new daughter strand -- complementary to the template (Meselson and Stahl, 1958; Parkhomchuk et al., 2009). 