Fresh water is a renewable resource, yet the world's supply of groundwater is steadily decreasing, with depletion occurring most prominently in Asia and North America, although it is still unclear how much natural renewal balances this usage, and whether ecosystems are threatened. In 2025, water shortages will be more prevalent among poorer countries where resources are limited and population growth is rapid, such as the Middle East, Africa, and parts of Asia. By 2025, large urban and peri-urban areas will require new infrastructure to provide safe water and adequate sanitation.
Water resources are defined as the sources by which we can get the water for our different types of uses and also those sources that gives the huge benefit to the life of the humans is referred to as the water resources. Or we can also say that the availability of the water to get rid of the demand of the water is called as water resources. Basically the function of the water resources is that to overcome the desires or the requirement of the water for the agricultural or household purposes.
1 water is a natural resource because it is used for cooking, drinking, bathing, and ,many other use because water is all around us. Water is a very important resource in our daily life.It is used to meet the everyday needs of human purposes.It is used for drinking ,cleaning,washing utensils,clothes,cooking … ,watering plants etc etc Thus we can say that we cannot survive without water. 3 people found this useful.
Water is a natural/renewable resource because it is made in nature, and it has a continuous cycle which will ultimately read to rain again. Report Abuse. Specifically, water is a natural and renewable resource-which is why we're trying to harness it for energy (through wave, current, and tide). Source(s): Geologist.
A graphical distribution of the locations of water on Earth. Only 3% of the Earth's water is fresh water. Most of it in icecaps and glaciers (69%) and groundwater (30%), while all lakes, rivers and swamps combined only account for a small fraction (0.3%) of the Earth's total freshwater reserves. In 2025, water shortages will be more prevalent among poorer countries where resources are limited and population growth is rapid, such as the Middle East, Africa, and parts of Asia. By 2025, large urban and peri-urban areas will require new infrastructure to provide safe water and adequate sanitation.
Surface Water Resources: Another type of the water resources is the surface water resource. it is that type of water resources in which the water present in the rivers or in the streams plays an important role in maintaining different types of technologies and also used to upgrade the productivity. Or we can also say that the availability of the water to get rid of the demand of the water is called as water resources. Basically the function of the water resources is that to overcome the desires or the requirement of the water for the agricultural or household purposes.
Only 2.5% of this water is freshwater, and 98.8% of that water is in ice (excepting ice in clouds) and groundwater. Less than 0.3% of all freshwater is in rivers, lakes, and the atmosphere, and an even smaller amount of the Earth's freshwater (0.003%) is contained within biological bodies and manufactured products. Water (chemical formula: H2O) is a transparent fluid which forms the world's streams, lakes, oceans and rain, and is the major constituent of the fluids of organisms.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: It's a natural resource in that it is part of the natural makeup of the planet. It's a renewable resource in that the water cycle (ideally) recycles water throughout the worldwide system. Report Abuse. Specifically, water is a natural and renewable resource-which is why we're trying to harness it for energy (through wave, current, and tide). Source(s): Geologist.
Water is technically considered a renewable resource because it can be used over and over again and it has a rain cycle. However, it is only in the short-term that water can be thought of as a renewable resource and the sustainability of this renewable resource is questionable. One of the main reasons that water may become a non-renewable source is the population growth. The population is expanding at a speedy rate, and this is putting enormous pressure on all our resources, even the renewable ones.