TheGeneral Certificate of Education 'Ordinary' Level Examination, otherwise known as the GCE 'O' Level or the O Levels is the examination taken by students of Secondary … Education in the United Kingdom, Commonwealth countries or regions associated with the British curriculum. The equivalent to GCE 'O' Level in the United Kingdom, including England, Wales and Northern Ireland, is the General Certificate of Secondary Education (abbreviated GCSE) and the International General Certificate of Secondary Education (abbreviated IGCSE or iGCSE).
The General Certificate of Education Advanced Level, more commonly known as the GCE A Level, is a school leaving qualification offered by secondary schools, sixth form colleges and further education colleges in the United Kingdom, some Commonwealth countries, and at many international schools around the world. 1 The structure of the A level was revised and a modular system was introduced. 2  A2 units were introduced as the second year of upper secondary to complement the first-year AS level and to make up the full A level. 3  The standalone Advanced Supplementary (AS) qualification was phased out.
The second part is known as the A2 Level and is more in depth and academically rigorous than the A1 Level. The AS Level is a qualification in its own right, and the AS Level combined with the A2 Level forms the complete A Level qualification. Up to June 2009 a third Special / Advanced Extension Award level was available for the brightest candidates. In Malaysia, the A Level qualification is offered, with examinations conducted by Cambridge International Examinations (CIE). Some subjects are unique to Malaysia or have a format, curriculum, or syllabus that is unique to Malaysia.
A Levels are generally worked towards over two years and split into two parts, with one part studied in each year. The first part is known as the Advanced Subsidiary Level, A1 Level or AS Level (the AS Level acronym was previously used for the separate Advanced Supplementary Level qualification). In Malaysia, the A Level qualification is offered, with examinations conducted by Cambridge International Examinations (CIE). Some subjects are unique to Malaysia or have a format, curriculum, or syllabus that is unique to Malaysia.
abbreviation for. 1. (Education) General Certificate of Education: a public examination in specified subjects taken in English and Welsh schools at the ages of 17 and 18. The GCSE has replaced the former GCE O-level for 16-year-olds. See also AS level, S level. 
GCE A & AS Levels in Applied Subjects. A levels in applied subjects are designed to prepare students for both employment and further study. In 2005/06 they replaced the Advanced Vocational Certificate of Education, informally known as ‘Vocational A levels’ or AVCEs. 1 The structure of the A level was revised and a modular system was introduced. 2  A2 units were introduced as the second year of upper secondary to complement the first-year AS level and to make up the full A level. 3  The standalone Advanced Supplementary (AS) qualification was phased out.
(The Scottish education system is distinctly different from those in the other countries of the United Kingdom). The GCE traditionally comprised three levels: the Ordinary Level (O Level), the Advanced Level (A Level), and the Scholarship / Special / S-Level / Advanced Extension Award (AEA) (withdrawn in August 2009). However, in England and Wales, the high school diploma is considered to be at the level of the General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE), which is awarded at Year 11.
The General Certificate of Education (GCE) is a subject specific family of academic qualifications that awarding bodies in England, Wales, Northern Ireland, Crown dependencies and a few Commonwealth countries, notably Sri Lanka and Singapore, confer on students. However, in England and Wales, the high school diploma is considered to be at the level of the General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE), which is awarded at Year 11.
The GCE 'O' Level is a subject-based qualification usually encompasses students of Grade 8 to Grade 10. The GCE 'O' Level in the United Kingdom is replaced by the General Certificate of Secondary Education (abbreviated GCSE) in 1988. The equivalent to GCE 'O' Level in the United Kingdom, including England, Wales and Northern Ireland, is the General Certificate of Secondary Education (abbreviated GCSE) and the International General Certificate of Secondary Education (abbreviated IGCSE or iGCSE).