Extending parental leave. An employee on unpaid parental leave can apply to extend their leave. The amount of time they can extend their leave depends on their original leave period. Any extension has to be taken straight after the original unpaid parent
Extended leave is unpaid and is only available for employees on leave due to their own serious health condition. An employee may continue to use any available paid sick or vacation time during the extended leave. When an employee goes on an unpaid extended leave, the department may post the employee’s position.
1 have worked for that employer for at least 12 months; and. 2  have worked at least 1,250 hours during the 12 months prior to the start of the FMLA leave; and, 3  work at a location where at least 50 employees are employed at the location or within 75 miles of the location.
Eligible employees can take up to 52 weeks’ maternity leave. The first 26 weeks is known as ‘Ordinary Maternity Leave’, the last 26 weeks as ‘Additional Maternity Leave’. The earliest that leave can be taken is 11 weeks before the expected week of childbirth, unless the baby is born early.
Refusing requests to extend parental leave. An employer can only refuse to extend an employee's leave on reasonable business grounds such as: 1  the impact on the workplace's finance, productivity or customer service. 2  difficulties managing the workload among existing staff, or.
Extending leave beyond the initial 12 months. An employee who originally planned to take 12 months unpaid parental leave can apply to extend their leave. The total period, with the extension, can't be more than 24 months. An employee has to give written notice if they want to extend their leave. It has to be given at least 4 weeks before their original leave ends and state the new end date.
You are entitled to:• 26 weeks of paid maternity leave in a row; and• 16 weeks additional unpaid maternity leave in a row beginning immediately after the end of the maternity leave.If your baby needs to be hospitalised then the 26 and 16 weeks’ leave can be taken at a later time but only if the employer agrees.