The name Casey is a Celtic baby name. In Celtic the meaning of the name Casey is: Brave. Gaelic Meaning: The name Casey is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Casey is: Brave. American Meaning: The name Casey is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Casey is: Brave. English Meaning: The name Casey is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Casey is: From a polish word meaning 'Proclamation of peace.' A, Cassandra, or Catherine. Popularized as a boy's name by the American folk song 'Casey Jones'.
Casey is a common variation of the Irish Gaelic cathasaigh/cathaiseach, meaning vigilant or watchful. At least six different septs used this name, primarily in the Counties of Cork and Dublin. People with the surname Casey include: 1  Adam Casey (born 1986), Australian soccer player. 2  Al Casey (disambiguation). 
Meaning & History. From an Irish surname, an Anglicized form of O รณ cathasaigh meaning descendant OF . Cathasach this name can be given in honour Of Casey (jones-1863), 1900 a train engineer who sacrificed his life to save his. passengers This name can be given in honour of Casey Jones (1863-1900), a train engineer who sacrificed his life to save his passengers. In his case, Casey was a nickname acquired because he was raised in the town of Cayce, Kentucky.
This interesting name, with variant spelling O'Casey, is an Anglicized form of the Old Gaelic O'Cathasaigh, from the Gaelic prefix O indicating male descendant of, plus the personal byname Cathasach, meaning vigilant or watchful. 
Casey's origin is Old Greek, Celtic, and Latin, and its use, English. From Celtic roots, its meaning is 'descendant of Cathasaigh, descendant of the vigilant one'. It is derived from the word cathasaigh with the meaning 'vigilant, wakeful'. It represents the transferred use of the surname as a given name. See Casey for more information. In addition, Casey is a familiar form (English) of the English and Greek Acacia. Casey is also a familiar form (English) of the English and German Cassandra. Casey is also a familiar form of the English Cassia.
Casey /ca-sey/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used more regularly as boys' name Casey) is pronounced KAY-see. It is of Irish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Casey is alert, watchful. From the male Gaelic name Cathasaigh. Also variant of Cassie and diminutive of Acacia. Made famous by the popular song about the heroism of Luther Casey Jones, a US engine driver who died to save the lives of his passengers. Casey is a very prominent first name for females (#461 out of 4276, Top 11%) and also a very prominent last name for both adults and children (#463 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Casey for girls.
From an Irish surname, an Anglicized form of O รณ cathasaigh meaning descendant OF . Cathasach this name can be given in honour Of Casey (jones-1863), 1900 a train engineer who sacrificed his life to save his. Passengers in his, Case casey was a nickname acquired because he was raised in the town Of, Cayce. kentucky This name can be given in honour of Casey Jones (1863-1900), a train engineer who sacrificed his life to save his passengers. In his case, Casey was a nickname acquired because he was raised in the town of Cayce, Kentucky.
Look up Casey in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Casey is a given name, derived either from the Irish Gaelic cathasaigh, meaning vigilant or watchful. or from a combination of the initials K.C. It is in use for both boys and girls in the United States, often with variant spellings. For other uses, see Casey (disambiguation) . Casey is a given name, derived either from the Irish Gaelic cathasaigh, meaning vigilant or watchful. or from a combination of the initials K.C.
Origin of the name Casey: Transferred use of the Irish surname, which is from the Gaelic O'Cathasaigh (descendant of Cathasach), a derivative of cathasach (watchful, vigilant). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Share what you know! Personal experiences with the name Casey: | Edit. This is my son's name, born 1980. He disliked his name when he was younger because it can be a girl's name also. Please consider this before naming your son this. His nickname is Case. ===. Suck it up. My name is Casey, I'm a proud of the name.