Cruise ship workers typically work on six month contracts with a particular cruise line due to the nature of the work and the workplace. Long periods at sea and 7-day work week are a lot for workers to deal with. On-board entertainers are not affiliated with the cruise line at and are hired on short-term freelance contracts as well. They are paid somewhere between $450 and $2,000 on average depending on the line and the talents they bring. Related Reading: Pros & Cons of Cruise Ship Employment.
Depending on experience, a cruise ship nurse can earn approximately $2,800 to $3,800 each month. Cruise ship nurses must have a registered nursing license and CPR certification. There is also at least one licensed doctor, who will earn between $4,600 and $6,200 every month. Entertainers. Every cruise ship has several entertainers who perform every day. Comedians, for example, can receive a monthly salary of up to $2,800 a month. Disk jockeys keep guests dancing at the various clubs and parties across the ship. They make anywhere between $1,800 and $2,200. Cruise ships also invite special guest entertainers who can earn between $3,200 and $7,000. Other entertainers include a lounge performer, who can earn up to $7,000, and a show dancer, who can receive between $3,200 and $3,6
Ship Captain Salary. (United States). A Ship Captain earns an average salary of $100,316 per year. For the first five to ten years in this position, pay increases steeply, but any additional experience does not have a big effect on pay. $42,028 - $197,662. 
Starting salaries in the cruise industry range from $1,850 to $2,200 USD/month for sidemen. There may be exceptions for musicians with ship experience and those with outstanding professional experience. 
So what can you expect to make? The majority of positions are based on an hourly wage and most employment opportunities on a cruise ship earn $1,200-$1,500 a month. There are though, a large number of positions that can make as much as $2,500 a month equating to $13 an hour. The pay you can earn by working on a cruise ship is largely determined by your position. There are however, a number of other factors that can contribute to your earnings. The size of the ship, the type of ship, the clientele, the cruise liner, tips earned and your job experience will all affect your earning potential.
Earl. Hey Peggy – There are hundreds of jobs on board cruise ships and it really all depends on your interests and what skills/knowledge you have in order to determine what is really best for you. And in terms of good money, it all depends on the position as salaries range from $500 – $10,000 per month. I have heard that if you are working on a cruise ship, some of the cruise lines let their staff have a guest or family member come to the ship and cruise for free. They must share the room with the staff who invited them. If this is true, about how long would you have to work on a cruise ship to get this benefit.
Hidden Costs and Practices. When calculating the average salary of any cruise ship worker, it is also necessary to factor in the expenses incurred by taking the job. Cruise workers are required to pay for transportation to the ship, any visas or work permits and medical or legal permits. On-board entertainers are not affiliated with the cruise line at and are hired on short-term freelance contracts as well. They are paid somewhere between $450 and $2,000 on average depending on the line and the talents they bring. Related Reading: Pros & Cons of Cruise Ship Employment.
Income Range. Salaries range from around $800 per month up to $8,000 depending on the position you work and the line for which you work. Entry-level positions such as junior waitstaff are at the bottom of the ladder, while the maitre d'hotel will be at the top. On-board entertainers are not affiliated with the cruise line at and are hired on short-term freelance contracts as well. They are paid somewhere between $450 and $2,000 on average depending on the line and the talents they bring. Related Reading: Pros & Cons of Cruise Ship Employment.