MORE INFORMATION. To convert the number of minutes to a decimal value, use the following formula: As an example, a latitude of 122 degrees 45 minutes North is equal to 122.75 degrees North. To convert Seconds to decimals, divide by 3600. As an example, a latitude of 122 degrees 45 minutes 45 seconds North is equal to 122.7625 degrees North. So the complete formula looks similar the following: http://www.fcc.gov/mb/audio/bickel/DDDMMSS-decimal.html.
Find an address from its GPS coordinates. Address from decimal lat long coordinate: fill the decimal GPS coordinates and click on the corresponding Get Address button. Address from sexagesimal lat long coordinate: fill the sexagesimal GPS coordinates and click on the corresponding Get Address button. Latitude, longitude and address of any point on Google Maps. Click directly on the map to get an address and its GPS coordinates. The latitude coordinate and the longitude coordinate are displayed on the left column and on the map.
From Latlongconverter.com: Lat Long Converter is a free and simple Latitude and Longitude coordinates converter, it can help you convert between different coordinate formats, supports UTM coordinate. This software is a very useful utility for all GPS users, easy to use very much. read more +. User Reviews. 
lat. Latitude in decimal degrees or degrees-minutes-seconds(DMS) format. if DMS format is used, prefix the value with a hemipshere designator (N or S) and use DDMMSS.ssssss format; decimal seconds are optional. Example: decimal degrees: 40.75 DMS format N404500.0.
CONVERT COORDINATES BOOKMARKLET Convert GPS Coords Drag the link above to your browser's link bar or right-click it to bookmark it. You can use this link to simply get to this site quickly OR if you highlight GPS coordinates on any web page and use this link from your bookmarks or link bar, it'll enter in those coordinates for you. Try it!
Latitude and longitude of an address. Convert address or place to lat long: fill the address field and click on Get GPS Coordinates to display its latitude and longitude. Read the result provided by the converter on the left column or directly on the Google Map. Latitude, longitude and address of any point on Google Maps. Click directly on the map to get an address and its GPS coordinates. The latitude coordinate and the longitude coordinate are displayed on the left column and on the map.
To find a location on a map by using the latitude and longitude of that location, enter the coordinates in decimal degrees. If the coordinates that you want to enter are in degrees and minutes, convert the number of minutes to a decimal value. To convert Seconds to decimals, divide by 3600. As an example, a latitude of 122 degrees 45 minutes 45 seconds North is equal to 122.7625 degrees North. So the complete formula looks similar the following: http://www.fcc.gov/mb/audio/bickel/DDDMMSS-decimal.html.
For the UTM to Latitude-Longitude conversion, simply enter the coordinates and the desired zone. For example, Zone 15 extends from 90 to 96 W, but if you enter easting 750000, northing 5000000, zone 15, you'll get latitude 45.111N, longitude 89.82W, that is, a longitude in Zone 16. 
A tool that you can use to convert coordinates from degrees, minutes, and seconds to decimal degrees is available at the following U.S. Government Web site: To convert Seconds to decimals, divide by 3600. As an example, a latitude of 122 degrees 45 minutes 45 seconds North is equal to 122.7625 degrees North. So the complete formula looks similar the following: http://www.fcc.gov/mb/audio/bickel/DDDMMSS-decimal.html.