Venus is the most noticeable of the four, but Jupiter runs a close second. Look in the direction of sunrise as dawn begins to light the sky. Fainter Mars is also in the morning sky beneath Venus, and Mercury is the planet nearest the horizon at dawn. Meanwhile, Saturn is the lone evening planet this month. Follow the links below to learn more about October planets.
View full size image. During this month of May, four bright planets will engage in a fascinating dance with each other in the morning sky. Mercury, Venus, Mars and Jupiter will be involved in a series of conjunctions, joined at the end of the month by a very thin, waning crescent moon. Then late in the month, on three successive mornings, May 29th, 30th, and 31st, the waning crescent moon will arrive, sweeping past Jupiter, Mars, Venus and Mercury stretched out across the eastern night sky from upper right to lower left. [ Video: See the Moon and Planet Alignments through June ].
On Wednesday (May 11), Mercury, Venus and Jupiter will converge within 2.05-degrees of each other, followed just 10 days later by another trio, this time formed by Mercury, Venus and Mars, which will crowd within a 2.13-degree circle. Then late in the month, on three successive mornings, May 29th, 30th, and 31st, the waning crescent moon will arrive, sweeping past Jupiter, Mars, Venus and Mercury stretched out across the eastern night sky from upper right to lower left. [ Video: See the Moon and Planet Alignments through June ].
On Tuesday, June 30, there will be a conjunction of Jupiter and Venus. A conjunction is a celestial event in which two planets or a planet and the moon or a planet and a star appear close together in the night sky. Conjunctions have no real astronomical value, but they are nice to view. In reality, the planets are hundreds of millions of miles apart. On June 30, Venus is about 46 million miles from Earth, and Jupiter is 560 million miles from Earth.
Look west tonight: Venus and Jupiter to get up close and personal on June 30. It’s been a slow summer dance as Venus and Jupiter have sidled up to one another over the month of June, but tonight is the night of the big rendezvous: Conjunction, when the two planets will appear close enough in the night sky to kiss. Planets often meet one another in the night sky: In October, Jupiter, Mars and Venus will form the year’s closest planetary threesome, according to EarthSky. Tonight, however, will offer the closest conjunction between Venus and Jupiter until August 2016
On June 30, they will be so close that one will be able to hold a finger up and cover both Jupiter and Venus at the same time. In reality, the planets are hundreds of millions of miles apart. On June 30, Venus is about 46 million miles from Earth, and Jupiter is 560 million miles from Earth. Looking up at the sky, Venus appears to be much brighter than Jupiter
This image from 2012 shows a close encounter between Jupiter and Venus in the sky over West Chester, Pennsylvania. On Tuesday (June 30) these two planets will come to within two-thirds of the apparent size of the full moon from each other. Credit: Jeff Berkes View full size image. The sidereal period is 224.7008 days for Venus, 365.2564 days for Earth and 4332.5894 days for Jupiter. As it turns out, 39 revolutions of Venus are almost precisely equal to 24 revolutions of Earth and two revolution
No. The sun is the only star in the above list. Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn are called planets. These planets revolve around a star, and that star is the s … un. I would think that of these Jupiter would have the lowest density, since Mercury, Venus and Mars are all solid, rocky planets like Earth while Jupiter is a gas giant composed … mainly of Hydrogen.
Bottom line: In October 2015, Saturn is the lone evening planet, appearing in the southwest at nightfall. Venus, Mars and Jupiter convene in the eastern predawn sky, with Mercury joining the morning planets possibly as early as October 10. Eastern sky before dawn now. Look in the direction of sunrise as dawn begins to light the sky. Fainter Mars is also in the morning sky beneath Venus, and Mercury is the planet nearest the horizon at dawn. Meanwhile, Saturn is the lone evening planet this month. Follow the links below to learn more about October planets.