Canker Sore Overview. Canker sores, also known as aphthous ulcers, are among the most common causes of painful sores in the mouth. 1  The classic lesion is a small (less than 1 centimeter) oval to round ulcer with a erythematous (red) border. 2  They occur on the mucous membranes inside the mouth. 
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Canker sores, also called apthous ulcers, are small, painful ulcers inside the mouth. They typically have a red border, are not contagious, and may occur on your tongue, inside your cheeks or lips, and on floor of your mouth. Although canker sores are common, in many cases the cause is unknown. They generally take one to two weeks to heal.
Some possible causes of canker sores include the following: 1  Injury to the mouth may cause simple canker sores. 2  Injury could be from vigorous tooth brushing, dental work, braces or dentures, or a sports accident. 3  Acidic foods, including citrus fruits, may trigger a canker sore or make it worse. 
Stress or tissue injury is thought to be the cause of simple canker sores. Certain foods -- including citrus or acidic fruits and vegetables (such as lemons, oranges, pineapples, apples, figs, tomatoes, and strawberries) -- can trigger a canker sore or make the problem worse. A. A. A. Canker sores are small, shallow ulcers that appear in the mouth and often make eating and talking uncomfortable. There are two types of canker sores 1  : Simple canker sores. 2  These may appear three or four times a year and last up to a week. 3  They typically occur in people between 10 and 20 years of age. 4  Complex canker sores
The top 5 reasons why people get canker sores. Canker sores can happen to anyone, at any age. Although simple canker sores are mostly common in the age group of 10 to 20, complex canker sores can happen at any age. Complex canker sores are rare but people with a history of simple canker sores are prone to them. 3. Stress/injury. Stress on the tissues or any type of injury in the mouth can cause canker sores. Since the sores are actually tiny ulcers, they can be caused by any kind of hard brushing or eating something that can cause bruises or lead to tissue inflammation in the mouth.
Canker sores (aphthous ulcers or aphthous stomatitis) are small, painful ulcers inside the mouth. They may occur on the tongue and on the inside linings of the cheeks, lips, and throat. They usually appear white, gray, or yellow in color, with a red border. 
You may have a canker sore if you have: 1  A painful sore or sores inside your mouth -- on the tongue, on the soft palate (the back portion of the roof of your mouth), or inside your cheeks. A. A. A. Canker sores are small, shallow ulcers that appear in the mouth and often make eating and talking uncomfortable. There are two types of canker sores 1  : Simple canker sores. 2  These may appear three or four times a year and last up to a week. 3  They typically occur in people between 10 and 20 years of age. 4  Complex canker sore
Cold sores are caused by the herpes simplex type 1 virus and are contagious whereas canker sores are not. Also, cold sores can appear outside the mouth in places such as under the nose, on the lips or under the chin while canker sores always appear inside the mouth. Canker sores, or aphthous stomatitis, are small ulcers in your mouth that cause pain and discomfort when talking or eating. Canker sores come in two varieties: simple and complex.