The sensory innervation of the muscle spindle arises from both group Ia and group II afferent fibers. As shown in Figure 11-3, a single, large group Ia fiber coils around the equatorial regions of both nuclear bag and nuclear chain fibers, forming the annulospiral endings or primary muscle spindle receptors. The spindle receptors sense muscle length and the rate of change of muscle length, whereas the Golgi tendon organ senses muscle tension and the rate of change of muscle tension. We have already seen that receptors in the joints do not signal the angle of the joint.
Several types of sensory receptors lie within skeletal muscles. (1) The very sensitive muscle spindles monitor muscle length and send this information to the CNS via the fastest conducting afferent nerve fibers in the body. The central nervous system (CNS) obtains information on whatever occurs in the muscles (i.e., mechanical and chemical changes) through sensory receptors located within muscles and joints, as well as in the portion of skin deformed by the motion.
Skeletal Muscle Reflex Sensory Receptors: Proprioceptors. Figure 13-3: Sensory receptors in muscle. Long Description: muscle spindles are embedded around noncontractile intrafusal fibers deep within contractile extrafusal fibers. The outer portions of intrafusal fibers do contract
The motor system requires sensory input in order to function properly. In addition to sensory information about the external environment, the motor system also requires sensory information about the current state of the muscles and limbs themselves. Proprioception is the sense of the body’s position in space based on specialized receptors that reside in the muscles and tendons. 
In a sensory system, a sensory receptor is a sensory nerve ending that responds to a stimulus in the internal or external environment of an organism. In response to stimuli, the sensory receptor initiates sensory transduction by creating graded potentials or action potentials in the same cell or in an adjacent one. Sensory receptors respond to specific stimulus modalities. The stimulus modality to which a sensory receptor responds is determined by the sensory receptor's adequate stimulus.
The sensory receptors involved in taste and smell contain receptor molecules that bind to specific chemicals. Odor receptors in olfactory receptor neurons, for example, are activated by interacting with molecular structures on the odor molecule. Sensory receptors respond to specific stimulus modalities. The stimulus modality to which a sensory receptor responds is determined by the sensory receptor's adequate stimulus.
Receptor. a sensory nerve structure that perceives and transforms stimuli from an organism’s external or internal environment and transmits information about the agent of the stimulus to the nervous system. Receptors vary in structure and function. The proprioceptors, a type of interoceptor, are located in muscles, tendons, and ligaments. They transmit information about the static condition and dynamics of the muscles. Mechanoreceptors, photoreceptors, chemoreceptors, and thermoreceptors respond to different types of stimuli.
Muscle spindles are sensory receptors within the belly of a muscle that primarily detect changes in the length of this muscle. They convey length information to the central nervous system via sensory neurons. This information can be processed by the brain to determine the position of body parts. The spindle is a stretch receptor with its own motor supply consisting of several intrafusal muscle fibres. The sensory endings of a primary (group Ia) afferent and a secondary (group II) afferent coil around the non-contractile central portions of the intrafusal fibres.