However, many hospitals will have their own policies regarding this matter, and for many of these hospitals, it will require the patient to have signed the form within 30 days of the surgical procedure, or have the patient resign the form the day of surgery. Dr. Mark, Doctor (MD). 
(1) The parent, whether the parent is an adult or a minor, of the parent's minor child; (2) An adult whom the parent of the minor child has given written authorization to consent to a surgical or medical procedure or course of procedures for the parent's minor child.
Also, where medical treatment of a minor aged less than sixteen years is carried out with the consent of a parent or guardian of the minor, the minor cannot make a claim against the medical practitioner for assault or battery. For patients 16 years or over, their own consent is sufficient. If a person is 16 years of age or over and incapable of giving consent, the provisions of the Guardianship Act 1987 will apply and the consent of the patient’s “person responsible” will be required (unless consent is not required, or the consent of the Tribunal is necessary).
Jun 12, '07 by uptoRNin04. A surgical consent should only be good for the date written on it, hence, 24 hours. As long as it is dated, and it should be, it is only good for that date. A delay in surgery would mean a different consent form. Top. 0 We are a JACHO facuilty and are medical records dept is telling us that surgical consents are only good for 24 hours. I have been an RNC for 25 years and know that is not true, but can't find anything to support it.
Jun 12, '07 by chartleypj. I have worked in 4 facilities over the past 31 years, including working for the federal government. At each facility, a hospital policy dictated how long a consent was good, and under which conditions it would be nullified. Top. 0 We are a JACHO facuilty and are medical records dept is telling us that surgical consents are only good for 24 hours. I have been an RNC for 25 years and know that is not true, but can't find anything to support it.
482.51(b)(2) pertaining to surgical services informed consent and the guidelines for. 482.24(c)(2)(v) pertaining to medical records for further detail. Informed decisions related to care planning also extend to discharge planning for the patient’s. post-acute care. See also the guidelines for 482.13(b)(2) pertaining to patients' rights, and the guidelines for 482.24(c)(2)(v), pertaining to surgical services. The medical record must contain a document recording the patient’s informed consent for those.
Informed Consent. Before having your operation, you will be asked to indicate that you understand the nature of the surgical procedure to be performed and that you give your permission for the operation. This may appear to be a formality, but, in fact, this process should be taken very seriously. The principle of informed consent is endorsed by the American College of Surgeons, the largest organization of surgeons in the world with more than 54,000 members.