In written drum music the different lines and spaces of the stave tell us which drum or cymbal to play. If a note is on the top line it tells us to play a different drum than if it is on the bottom line. Below is an example of the positions of the different drums and cymbals on a stave. Learn how to read drum music with drumnuts free drum lessons. See how easy it to read drum music and how reading can help you to become a better drummer. Once you can read drum music you can learn to play the drum beats to your favourite drum songs right here on drumnuts. Learn the values of the different notes and rests and how they can be combined to form rhythms on the drums. Learn how the different lines and spaces of the stave or staff indicate which drums and cymbals to play. Then use your ability to read drum music to learn from drum books and drum charts
1 In one piece of music, two inches/centimetres measured horizontally on the stave might represent 5 seconds, in another piece, two inches/centimetres might represent half a second. 2  Frequency or pitch is represented on a stave vertically, and notes are placed on the stave to indicate their note pitch : This is a good starting point for beginners! 1  Stave is the name for the five parallel, equally-spaced, horizontal lines which hold one or more parts of music: 2  An alternative name, still used in some countries, is staff, with staves as the plural (see alternative names for different names used in different countries).
In popular music and jazz, drums usually refers to a drum kit or a set of drums (with some cymbals), and  drummer  to the person who plays them. Drums acquired even divine status in places such as Burundi, where the karyenda was a symbol of the power of the king. Drums consist of at least one membrane, called a drumhead or drum skin, that is stretched over a shell and struck, either directly with the player's hands, or with a drum stick, to produce sound.
The snare drum is known for its loud crack when a person strikes it with a drum stick or mallet. The depth of the sound varies from snare to snare because of the different techniques and construction qualities of the drum. The snare drum seems to have descended from a medieval drum called the Tabor, which was a drum with a single gut snare strung across the bottom. It is a bit bigger than a medium tom and was first used in war, often played with a fife or pipe; the player would play both the fife and drum (see also Pipe and tabor).
Percussion notation is a type of musical notation indicating notes to be played by percussion instruments. As with other forms of musical notation, sounds are represented by symbols which are usually written onto a musical staff (or stave). Percussion instruments are generally grouped into two categories: pitched and non-pitched. The notation of non-pitched percussion instruments is less standardized. Cymbals are usually notated with 'x' note heads, drums with normal elliptical note heads and auxiliary percussion with alternative note head
1 Every line or space on the stave represents a white key on the keyboard. 2  Clefs assign individual notes to certain lines or spaces. 3  Two clefs are normally used: The Treble and Bass clefs. 4  First, we will discuss the Treble Clef (also called the G Clef). 1 Every line or space on the staff
Measures & Bar Lines. Music is written on a music staff, which features five parallel horizontal lines. The first thing you’ll see written on the staff is the clef; the drum/percussion clef looks like a vertical rectangle and is used with non-pitched percussion instruments. With non-pitched percussion instruments like a drum set, notes written on different spaces and lines indicate that drum, bass drum, or cymbal. The staff is separated into individual measures (or bars) of music with thin vertical lines called bar lines. 
In most drum notation systems, the lines and spaces of a standard 5-line music staff are used to define the various drums of a kit. For simple parts (for example, a kick and snare pattern) a 1 or 2 line-line staff may be used. Non-kit percussion instruments can be notated on any of these staff types. 
All music is written on what is called a FIVE LINE STAVE (sometimes referred to as a STAFF). Musical symbols are placed either on the line or in a space to represent which element of the drum set is to be played. Below is an example of a five line stave. The vertical lines are called a bar lines and space between each bar line is called a bar. Musical symbols are written within the bar which is where you read the drum music. Now we must learn where each drum kit element is found on the stave. We will start by looking at just three parts of a standard set up for a 5 piece drum kit – hi-hat, snare and bass drum. Hi-Hats. The hi-hats sit just above the top line and is a symbol that consists of a cross with a stem.