General Information about Staphylococcus aureus. Staphylococcus aureus [staf I lō-kok is aw ree us] (staph), is a type of bacteria that about 30% of people carry in their noses. Most of the time, staph does not cause any harm; however, sometimes staph causes infections. In healthcare settings, these infections can be serious or fatal, including: 1  Bacteremia or sepsis when bacteria spread to the bloodstream. 
Best Answer: .Staphylococcus epidermidis lives naturally on the skin and mucous membranes Staphylococcus epidermidis is a major cause of nosocomial infections, including sepsis in premature infants. Although present harmlessly on the skin of everyone, S.epidermidis can cause significant infections if it enters wounds on medical devices such as artificial hip joints or heart valves, or when staff use intravenous catheters to access the bloodstream.
Definition. Staph infections are caused by staphylococcus bacteria, types of germs commonly found on the skin or in the nose of even healthy individuals. Most of the time, these bacteria cause no problems or result in relatively minor skin infections. But staph infections can turn deadly if the bacteria invade deeper into your body, entering your bloodstream, joints, bones, lungs or heart.
Staphylococcus epidermidis is a Gram-positive bacterium, and one of over 40 species belonging to the genus Staphylococcus. It is part of the normal human flora, typically the skin flora, and less commonly the mucosal flora. These infections are generally hospital-acquired. S. epidermidis is a particular concern for people with catheters or other surgical implants because it is known to form biofilms that grow on these devices.
Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus or “staph”) facts, including how S. aureus is spread, common symptoms and complications. S. aureus has long been recognized as one of the most important bacteria that cause disease in humans. It is the leading cause of skin and soft tissue infections such as abscesses (boils), furuncles, and cellulitis. Although most staph infections are not serious, S. aureus can cause serious infections such as bloodstream infections, pneumonia, or bone and joint infections. On this page: Signs and symptoms of infection. Duration of illness. Transmission
Staphylococcus epidermidis is a commensal inhabitant of human skin that rarely causes disease in healthy persons. In recent years, however, largely because of the increased use of intravascular catheters and other indwelling prosthetic devices, S. epidermidis has emerged as a major nosocomial pathogen [ 1, 2 ]. 
Confidence votes 4. This is not a single species. Under the genus staphylococcus there are so many species. There are 3 medically important species- 1. S. aureus 2. S. epidermidis 3. S. saprophyticus S. aureus causes suppurative (Abscess) diseases as well as systemic (affecting whole body) diseases. 
Staphylococcus epidermidis. (Buddycom). Introduction. Staphylococcus epidermidis is a gram-positive, coagulase-negative cocci that is a part of our normal flora. Consequently, it is a true opportunistic pathogen, as it requires a major breach in the host’s innate defenses. 