Lemurs, tarsiers, and lorises belong to a group of primates called prosimians. The sub-order Strepsirrhini (curly-nosed primates) are non-tarsier prosimians, and the sub-order … Haplorrhini (dry-nosed primates) includes tarsiers and simians. 1 person found this useful. Lemurs' habitat is the forest, and they use their long tail for balance as they jum … p between trees, and also for communicating with each other.   Additional Info: There are 60 sub-species of the primate Lemur, and 88 different species divided into five surviving families.
The ring-tailed lemur is highly social, living in groups of up to 30 individuals. It is also female dominant, a trait common among lemurs. To keep warm and reaffirm social bonds, groups will huddle together. The ring-tailed lemur is a relatively large lemur. Its average weight is 2.2 kilograms (4.9 lb). Its head–body length ranges between 39 and 46 cm (15 and 18 in), its tail length is 56 and 63 cm (22 and 25 in), and its total length is 95 and 110 cm (37 and 43 in).
Answer: plot, congress, conspiracy. A group of lemur is called a plot, congress, conspiracy. Lemurs make up the infraorder Lemuriformes and are members of a group of primates known as prosimians. The term lemur is derived from the Latin word lemures, meaning spirits of the night or ghosts. This likely refers to their large, reflective eyes and the wailing cries of some species (the Indri in particular). The term is generically used for the members of the four lemuriform families, but it is also the genus of one of the lemuriform species, the Ring-tailed Lemur (Lemur catta). The two so-called flying lemur species, that are also called colugos, are not lemurs or even primates.
When they do this, it is called a lemur ball.. (wikipedia) That's one name for a group of Lemurs! I also seen a group of Lemurs referred to as dummies on Wiki answers, but I really doubt this is at all correct. I would imagine someone thought it would make a funny answer. I hope this helps answer your question! Take care. **Edit-if someone could post a link showing a group of Lemurs called dummies i'd be interested-because I can't seem to find it anywhere, besides the one answer on Wiki Answers, and I seem to doubt its authenticity as a correct title for a group of Lemurs! Thanks.**.
A lemur is a mammal, and a type of primate found in Madagascar and the surrounding islands. Lemurs' habitat is the forest, and they use their long tail for balance as they jum … p between trees, and also for communicating with each other. Lemurs, tarsiers, and lorises belong to a group of primates called prosimians. The sub-order Strepsirrhini (curly-nosed primates) are non-tarsier prosimians, and the sub-order … Haplorrhini (dry-nosed primates) includes tarsiers and simians. 1 person found this useful. Alex Dunkel.
Ring-tailed lemurs are some of the most vocal primates. The ring-tailed lemur is one of the most vocal primates and has a complex array of distinct vocalizations used to maintain group cohesion during foraging and alert group members to the presence of a predator. Calls range from simple to complex. The ring-tailed lemur is a relatively large lemur. Its average weight is 2.2 kilograms (4.9 lb). Its head–body length ranges between 39 and 46 cm (15 and 18 in), its tail length is 56 and 63 cm (22 and 25 in), and its total length is 95 and 110 cm (37 and 43 in).
Ring-tailed lemurs also spend a lot of time on the ground, which is unusual among lemur species. They forage for fruit, which makes up the greater part of their diet, but also eat leaves, flowers, tree bark, and sap. 
Lemur females are dominant. A group of lemurs usually has one dominant female who leads the group, controls their movement, and has first choice of food and mates. Common parts of a lemur diet in the wild include fruits, leaves, and other edible plant materials. An exception is the ring-tailed lemur, which spends most of its time on the ground. The majority of lemurs are also diurnal, awake during the day and asleep at night — especially those that live in groups, including the ring-tailed lemurs, brown lemurs, and sifakas.