If you're considering taking melatonin supplements, check with your doctor first — especially if you have any health conditions. He or she can help you determine the correct dose, which depends on the intended use. If you take melatonin, choose commercial supplements produced in a lab. Melatonin supplements made from animal sources might contain contaminants. Avoid activities that require alertness — such as driving or operating heavy machinery — for four to five hours after taking melatonin.
Melatonin can cause drowsiness if taken during the day. If you are drowsy the morning after taking melatonin, try taking a lower dose. Additional side effects include stomach cramps, dizziness, headache, irritability, decreased libido, breast enlargement in men (called gynecomastia), and reduced sperm count.
Melatonin is a hormone made by the pineal gland, a small gland in the brain. Melatonin helps control your sleep and wake cycles. Very small amounts of it are found in foods such as meats, grains, fruits, and vegetables. You can also buy it as a supplement. Melatonin does have side effects. But they will go away when you stop taking the supplement. Side effects may include: 1  Sleepiness. 2  Lower body temperature. 3  Vivid dreams. 4  Morning grogginess. 5  Small changes in blood pressure.
Melatonin is a hormone found naturally in the body. Melatonin used as medicine is usually made synthetically in a laboratory. It is most commonly available in pill form, but melatonin is also available in forms that can be placed in the cheek or under the tongue. 1 Jet lag. 2  Most research shows that melatonin can improve certain symptoms of jet lag such as alertness and movement coordination. 3  Melatonin also seems to slightly improve other jet lag symptoms such as daytime sleepiness and tiredness.
Melatonin has been used safely for up to 2 years in some people. However, it can cause some side effects including headache, short-term feelings of depression, daytime sleepiness, dizziness, stomach cramps, and irritability. Do not drive or use machinery for four to five hours after taking melatonin. 1 Jet lag. 2  Most research shows that melatonin can improve certain symptoms of jet lag such as alertness and movement coordination. 3  Melatonin also seems to slightly improve other jet lag symptoms such as daytime sleepiness and tiredness.
Use the lowest dose when you first start taking this supplement. Take melatonin at bedtime or when you are ready to sleep. If you're using the supplement to treat jet lag, take the dose at bedtime on the day you arrive at your destination and keep using it for two to five days. Melatonin overdose can lead to severe drowsiness and affect your sleep-wake cycle. Symptoms of a melatonin overdose may include headache, drowsiness, and upset stomach. If you suspect an overdose, you should contact a poison-control center or emergency room immediately.
Guidelines and Precautions. The jury is still out on melatonin’s effects on blood pressure. If you have high or low blood pressure, or take medications to control your blood pressure, it is best to avoid the supplement unless advised otherwise by your doctor. Even though some blood pressure medications may cause sleep disturbances, you should never take any sleep aids, including melatonin, without talking to your doctor first. The results could be harmful to your health.
Children and pregnant or nursing women should not take melatonin without talking to a doctor first. Melatonin does have side effects. But they will go away when you stop taking the supplement. Side effects may include: 1  Sleepiness. 2  Lower body temperature. 3  Vivid dreams. 4  Morning grogginess. 5  Small changes in blood pressure.
Melatonin may affect blood pressure. Caution is advised in people taking drugs, herbs, or supplements that affect blood pressure. Melatonin may affect blood sugar levels. Caution is advised in people with diabetes or low blood sugar and those taking drugs, herbs, or supplements that affect blood sugar. 
During health exams, tell your doctor if you are taking melatonin. And tell your doctor if you are having trouble sleeping (insomnia), because it may be related to a medical problem. In adults, melatonin is taken in doses from 0.2 mg to 20.0 mg, based on the reason for its use. Melatonin does have side effects. But they will go away when you stop taking the supplement. Side effects may include: 1  Sleepiness. 2  Lower body temperature. 3  Vivid dreams. 4  Morning grogginess. 5  Small changes in blood pressure.