CIN 1. If you have CIN 1 (low-grade) cells, it's unlikely that you'll develop cancer. The abnormal cells will often disappear without treatment to remove them. You'll usually be invited for a cervical screening test in 12 months to check that the abnormal cells have gone.
Cervical intra-epithelial neoplasia (CIN) is a term used to describe changes in the squamous cells of the cervix. CIN is not cancer, but treatment may be needed to prevent squamous cell cervical cancer developing.
Contrast Induced Nephropathy (CIN) is a form of kidney damage caused by the toxic effects of dyes (known as 'contrast media') used by cardiologists to x-ray the heart and blood vessels during commonly performed heart procedures such as angioplasty and stenting.
Most often, cervical dysplasia is caused by the human papilloma virus (HPV). HPV is a common virus that is spread through sexual contact. There are many types of HPV. Some types lead to cervical dysplasia or cancer. Other types of HPV can cause genital warts.
listen. Severely abnormal cells are found on the surface of the cervix. CIN 3 is usually caused by certain types of human papillomavirus (HPV) and is found when a cervical biopsy is done. If not treated, these abnormal cells may become cancer and spread to nearby normal tissue.
Cervical dysplasia refers to abnormal changes in the cells on the surface of the cervix. The cervix is the lower part of the uterus (womb) that opens at the top of the vagina. The changes are not cancer.
CIN3 is not cancer of the cervix, but it is important to treat CIN3 as soon as possible. CIN3 may be referred to as severe dyskaryosis or severe dysplasia. Less commonly, it is called carcinoma-in-situ, though this term is rarely used these days.
CIN3 – indicates more severe changes (not cancer); affecting the full thickness of the surface layer of the cervix. Even with CIN2 or CIN3 grade changes, it is unlikely that a woman has cancer (NHS Cancer Screening leaflet, ‘Cervical Screening: what your abnormal result means’, 2012).
Cervical intra-epithelial neoplasia (CIN) is when there are changes in the surface (squamous) cells of the cervix. It’s not a cancer. But because CIN can increase the risk of cervical cancer developing, it is called a pre-cancerous condition.