Where is Germany located on the world map? The given Germany location map shows that Germany is located in the central western part of Europe continent. Besides, Germany has also coastline in the northern side, which opens into the Baltic Sea in the north-east side and North Sea in the north-west side. The government type of Germany is a federal parliamentary republic governing the sixteen states of the country
The country Germany is located on the continent of Europe. Neighbouring countries are: Belgium, Switzerland, Czech Republic, Denmark, Luxembourg, Netherlands & Poland. 
Located in the continent of Europe, Germany covers 348,672 square kilometers of land and 8,350 square kilometers of water, making it the 63rd largest nation in the world with a total area of 357,022 square kilometers. Germany was founded as a distinct and original nation in 1618. Location of Berlin on a map. Berlin is the capital city of Germany. It has a population of 3,426,354, and is located on a latitue of 52.52 and longitude of 13.41. Berlin is also the political center of Germany, which is considered a Republic, and home to its Ceremonial head of state
Hamburg is a city/town with a large population in the country of Germany which is located in the continent/region of Europe. Cities, towns and places near Hamburg include HaBmoor, Barsbuttel, Oststeinbek and Schenefeld. The closest major cities include Segeberg, Lubeck, Rendsburg-Eckernforde and Kiel. 
Germany map also shows that the country shares its international boundaries with Denmark in the north, Poland and Czech Republic in the east, Austria and Switzerland in the south and in the western side shares its boundaries with France, Luxembourg, Belgium, and the Netherlands. Besides, Germany has also coastline in the northern side, which opens into the Baltic Sea in the north-east side and North Sea in the north-west side. The government type of Germany is a federal parliamentary republic governing the sixteen states of the country
Germany is a country with a very large population which is located in the continent/region of Europe. Countries near Germany include Luxembourg, Netherlands, Czech Republic and Belgium. Its biggest cities and towns include Berlin, Berlingen, Hamburg and Munich. 
Find out where is Germany located. The location map of Germany below highlights the geographical position of Germany within Europe on the world map. Germany location highlighted on the world map
The Federal Republic of Germany is a country located in western and central Europe. Germany is bordered by Denmark to the north, Poland and the Czech Republic to the east, Austria and Switzerland to the south, France and Luxembourg to the south-west, and Belgium and the Netherlands to the north-west.