Some famous authors during this time included Jean Toomer, Jessie Fauset, Claude McKay, Zora Neale Hurston, James Weldon Johnson and Alain Locke and Eric D. Walrond as well as Langston Hughes. The Harlem Renaissance would help lay the foundation of the Civil Rights Movement. --------------------------------------... The Harlem Renaissance began as a result of the changes in the African American community after the end of the Civil War.
Best Answer: The Harlem Renaissance (also known as the Black Literary Renaissance and New ***** Renaissance) refers to the flowering of African American literature, art, and drama during the 1920s and 1930s. Though centered in Harlem, New York City, USA, the movement impacted urban centers throughout the United States. --------------------------------------... The Harlem Renaissance began as a result of the changes in the African American community after the end of the Civil War.
1 4 Famous Women Of the Harlem Renaissance Around the 1920s in Harlem, New York, a new movement which celebrated African American art and culture was thriving. 2  The New Negro Movement, as it was called at the time, g…. 1 La Negritude: The Negritude Movement The Negritude movement was a literary, political, and cultural movement among educated French black people in the 1930s. 2  It drew heavily on the Harlem Renaissance, but was fo…. 3  The History of Fort Lee Virginia Fort Lee in Virginia goes a long way back in American history.
The Harlem Renaissance was a movement that spanned the 1920s. The Harlem Renaissance was the name given to the cultural, social, and artistic explosion that took place in Harlem, New York. During the time, it was known as the  New Negro Movement , named after the 1925 anthology by Alain Locke. Christianity played a major role in the Harlem Renaissance. Many of the writers and social critics discussed the role of Christianity in African–American lives. For example, a famous poem by Langston Hughes, Madam and the Minister, reflects the temperature and mood towards religion
Though it was centered in the Harlem neighborhood of the borough of Manhattan in New York City, in addition, many francophone black writers from African and Caribbean colonies who lived in Paris were also influenced by the Harlem Renaissance. Christianity played a major role in the Harlem Renaissance. Many of the writers and social critics discussed the role of Christianity in African–American lives. For example, a famous poem by Langston Hughes, Madam and the Minister, reflects the temperature and mood towards religion
One of the most famous musicians of the Harlem Renaissance was Louis Armstrong. Having come from a poor family in New Orleans, Armstrong began to perform with bands in small clubs, and play at funerals and parades around town in New Orleans. He wasn't a small band man for long, though. 
21 people found this useful. 1  4 Famous Women Of the Harlem Renaissance Around the 1920s in Harlem, New York, a new movement which celebrated African American art and culture was thriving. 2  The New Negro Movement, as it was called at the time, g…. 1 La Negritude: The Negritude Movement The Negritude movement was a literary, political, and cultural movement among educated French black people in the 1930s. 2  It drew heavily on the Harlem Renaissance, but was fo…. 3  The History of Fort Lee Virginia Fort Lee in Virginia goes a long way back in American history.
Writers & Artists Langston Hughes. Twentieth century writer and poet Langston Hughes. Born: February 1, 1902Died: May 22, 1967Langston Hughes was one of the most important writers and thinkers of the Harlem Renaissance, which was the African American artistic movement in the 1920s that celebrated black life and culture. Hughes's creative genius was influenced by his life in New York City's Harlem, a primarily African American neighborhood. 
The Harlem Renaissance was the name given to the cultural, social, and artistic explosion that took place in Harlem between the end of World War I and the middle of the 1930s. During this period Harlem was a cultural center, drawing black writers, artists, musicians, photographers, poets, and scholars. 
The Harlem Renaissance was a time that represented a lot of culture and art for the African American people. The African Americans became more proud of their heritage and began expressing their feelings about their oppresion and their day to day lives. 