77 Followers. A. A paresthesia is an abnormal sensation of tingling, numbness, or burning. Paresthesias are usually felt in the hands, feet, arms, or legs, but can be felt anywhere. The sensation is usually unpleasant. 
What is Paresthesia? Paresthesia refers to a burning or prickling sensation that is usually felt in the hands, arms, legs, or feet, but can also occur in other parts of the body. The sensation, which happens without warning, is usually painless and described as tingling or numbness, skin crawling, or itching. Chronic paresthesia is often a symptom of an underlying neurological disease or traumatic nerve damage. Paresthesia can be caused by disorders affecting the central nervous system, such as stroke and transient ischemic attacks (mini-strokes), multiple sclerosis, transverse myelitis, and encephalitis.
(December 2010). Paresthesia (/ˌpaerɨsˈθiːziə/ ˌpærɨsˈθiːziə /or/) (ˌpaerɨsˈθiːʒə ˌpærɨsˈθiːʒə british; english paraesthesia /plural/ paraesthesiae ˌpaerrɪsˈθiːzɪiː), ˌpærrɪsˈθiːzɪiː or paraesthesias is a, sensation, of, tingling tickling pricking or burning'of a person s skin with no apparent-and obvious long. term physical effect 
The sensation of paresthesia is described in a variety of terms. These include burning, tingling, numbness, skin crawling, itching and pins and needles. Paresthesia most often occurs in the arms, legs, hands and feet, but can also happen anywhere in the body. 
Paresthesia is an abnormal condition in which you feel a sensation of burning, numbness, tingling, itching or prickling. Paresthesia can also be described as a pins-and-needles or skin-crawling sensation. Paresthesia most often occurs in the extremities, such as the hands, feet, fingers, and toes, but it can occur in other parts of the body.
Paresthesia refers to a burning or prickling sensation that is usually felt in hands, arms, legs, or feet but can also occur in other parts of the body. The sensation, which happens without warning, is usually painless and described as tingling or numbness, skin crawling, or itching. Paresthesia is a burning or prickling sensation that can be felt in different parts of the body. You have probably experienced temporary paresthesia when you sat in one position for too long and felt pins and needles in one of your legs.
Brief Synopsis: Paresthesia is a prickling or burning sensation that a person experiences in their feet, legs, arms or hands. A diagnostic evaluation of paresthesia is based on determination of the underlying condition that is causing the person to experience paresthesia sensations.. Defining Paresthesia. The term, 'Paresthesia,' refers to a prickling or burning sensation that a person experiences in their feet, legs, arms, or hands; although it may also occur in other parts of their body.
Paresthesia: Introduction. Paresthesia is an abnormal condition in which a person feels a sensation of burning, numbness, tingling, or prickling. Paresthesia most often occurs in the extremities. Paresthesia is a symptom of a variety of mild to serious diseases, disorders and conditions. more about Tingling. Paresthesia: Paresthesia is a term that refers to an abnormal burning or prickling sensation which is generally felt in the hands, arms, legs, or feet, but may occur ... more about Paresthesia.