Scenes from the Town of Stars Hollow: The pilot for “Gilmore Girls” was shot in a small town in Toronto (Historic Unionville) . When the show was picked up, they reproduced the look of the interiors from the pilot on soundstages in Burbank, California. I absolutely LOVE Gilmore Girls! I was also late getting into the show but I watch the reruns on t.v. all the time. I always tell my husband I want to live in Stars Hollow! Thank you for posting these pictures; I love the cozy feeling of Lorelai and Rory’s house.
(March 2012). Stars Hollow was inspired by and is loosely based on the actual village of Washington Depot, Connecticut (located in the middle of the western half of the state, about 45 minutes from both Hartford and New Haven) which writer Amy Sherman-Palladino once traveled through. Unionville, Ontario 's Main Street was used as a stand-in for Stars Hollow in the show's pilot which became the first episode. Since 2010, the Gilmore Girls set is used for the ABC Family show, Pretty Little Liars. Luke's Diner is now used as Rosewood Cafe. Hart of Dixie' s fictional Bluebell also uses the square
Stars Hollow is a fictional small town in Connecticut featured on the television show Gilmore Girls. It is depicted as a close-knit small town with many quirky characters, located roughly thirty minutes by car from Hartford. It is loosely based on the towns of Essex, Wallingford, and Washington, Connecticut, but filming of the pilot was done in historical Main Street Unionville in Unionville, Ontario. Unionville, Ontario 's Main Street was used as a stand-in for Stars Hollow in the show's pilot which became the first episode. Since 2010, the Gilmore Girls set is used for the ABC Family show, Pretty Little Liars. Luke's Diner is now used as Rosewood Cafe. Hart of Dixie' s fictional Bluebell also uses the square
635 pages on this wiki. Stars Hollow is the small town Lorelai and Rory live in. The show, Gilmore Girls, takes place in a fictional town named Stars Hollow created by Amy Sherman-Palladino. Lorelai came from a wealthy family with everything open to her, but ended up in the small town in Connecticut. Through out the show you learn about how Stars Hollow was founded and how it was named
Stars Hollow is actually a Warner Bros. backlot set that was built decades earlier for films like The Music Man. So it was not meant to look like Washington Depot. Still when I arrived in the town center there were all the familiar elements: a town hall, churches, small businesses, and a central lawn. On the show its portrayed a quaint little town with lots of quirky characters and it kind of shaped my expectations of Connecticut when I moved up here. I did a quick search on the Wikipedia and discovered that show creator Amy Sherman-Palladino based Stars Hollow on the real-life town of Washington Depot, CT.
Stars Hollow from Gilmore Girls. Despite the fact that Amy Sherman-Palladino’s dramedy was ostensibly about the titular mother-daughter duo, Lorelai and Rory Gilmore, it was the town of Stars Hollow that gave the show its heart.
In trying to think of where to go, I came up with the idea of searching for the real Stars Hollow, CT. Stars Hollow is the fictional town that played host to the Gilmore Girls, a television show which I embarrassingly admit I used to watch. On the show its portrayed a quaint little town with lots of quirky characters and it kind of shaped my expectations of Connecticut when I moved up here. I did a quick search on the Wikipedia and discovered that show creator Amy Sherman-Palladino based Stars Hollow on the real-life town of Washington Depot, CT.
``Hey, literally, this place does not exist. It's a total imagination.''. But for fans of ``The Gilmore Girls,'' Stars Hollow is dead-on in its depiction of the cozy Connecticut exurbs, down to its storefront coffee shop and the gazebo on the green. Not bad for a generic back lot that ``has been in thousands of movies,'' Sherman-Palladino said. 