Many associations exists in order to provide certification or training in equine therapy. It has shown to be very effective with patients who manifest depression, attention-deficit, conduct disorders, dissociative disorders, anxiety, dementia, autism, and many other related disorders. One example that is used often is when students are just beginning a horse therapy program, the instructor will have the horse stand in the middle of the arena. The youth are supposed to get the horse to move outside of a large circle without touching the horse at all.
Equine Therapy usually includes instruction in horse care, grooming procedures, saddlery, and basic equitation. Safety is the number one priority for all participants in equine therapy. Participants often wear helmets and other protective gear should they fall from a horse during a therapeutic session. One example that is used often is when students are just beginning a horse therapy program, the instructor will have the horse stand in the middle of the arena. The youth are supposed to get the horse to move outside of a large circle without touching the horse at all.
Equine therapy is the discipline of using horses as a means to provide metaphoric experiences in order to promote emotional growth. The horses provide an excellent way for troubled youth to react when they are otherwise therapy resistant. One example that is used often is when students are just beginning a horse therapy program, the instructor will have the horse stand in the middle of the arena. The youth are supposed to get the horse to move outside of a large circle without touching the horse at all.
The goal of equine therapy is to help the patient develop needed skills and attributes, such as accountability, responsibility, self-confidence, problem-solving skills, and self-control. Studies have indicated that equine therapy has been successful in helping patients show marked improvements in the following areas: 1  Assertiveness. 2  Emotional awareness. 3  Empathy. 4  Stress tolerance. 5  Flexibility. 6  Impulse control. 7  Problem-solving skills. 8  Self-actualization.
Equine therapy uses horses as part of the treatment for a wide range of physical and psychological problems. It can be used to help children with autism, ADHD, Down's Syndrome or developmental delays. Cost. The cost of equine therapy can vary widely depending on the program and the therapist. Prices can range from $75 per session to around $4,000 for a twelve-week course. Patients can attend once a week or have several sessions each week.
How Equine Assisted Therapy Works. Structured as a collaborative effort between a licensed therapist and a horse specialist working with the clients to address mental health treatment goals, Equine Assisted Therapy is experiential in nature for emotional growth and learning. 
Equine Therapy (also referred to as Horse Therapy, Equine-Assisted Therapy, and Equine-Assisted Psychotherapy) is a form of experiential therapy that involves interactions between patients and horses. Studies have indicated that equine therapy has been successful in helping patients show marked improvements in the following areas: 1  Assertiveness. 2  Emotional awareness. 3  Empathy. 4  Stress tolerance. 5  Flexibility. 6  Impulse control. 7  Problem-solving skills. 8  Self-actualization.
Incorporating horses experientially for emotional growth and learning. Equine assisted therapy is a collaborative effort between a licensed therapist and a horse professional working with the clients and horses to address treatment goals. This therapeutic approach is experiential in nature. WHAT IS EQUINE THERAPY? Equine assisted therapy is a collaborative effort between a licensed therapist and a horse professional working with the clients and horses to address treatment goals.
Equine Therapy involves activities (such as grooming, feeding, haltering and leading a horse) that are supervised by a mental health professional, often with the support of a horse professional. Studies have indicated that equine therapy has been successful in helping patients show marked improvements in the following areas: 1  Assertiveness. 2  Emotional awareness. 3  Empathy. 4  Stress tolerance. 5  Flexibility. 6  Impulse control. 7  Problem-solving skills. 8  Self-actualization.