The forensic anthropologist can render a biological profile or composite of an individual by providing accurate information such as age at death, sex, estimated living stature, ancestry, osteological pathology, trauma, and other biological information that is crucial to the identification process. Forensic Anthropology. Forensic anthropology is an applied subfield of biological anthropology that applies the scientific methods of biological anthropology to the medicolegal process.
FORDISC, an interactive discriminant functions program created by Stephen Ousley and Richard Jantz, is widely used by forensic anthropologists to assist in the creation of a decedent 's biological profile when only parts of the cranium are available. Due to the age of these collections, their use in a medico-legal context did not produce accurate determination of the biological profile. ForDisc was forensic anthropologists solution to this problem, and allowed for classification when some measurements are not
Forensic Anthropology. Forensic anthropology is the application of anthropology to criminal investigations. It incorporates concepts and methods from biological anthropology (the study of the physical aspects of humanity). Identifying unknown individuals is a key part of forensic anthropology. Anthropologists assist in identifications primarily by constructing a biological profile. 
Forensic anthropology. Forensic anthropology is the sub-discipline that applies the principles and methods of physical anthropology to legal issues. Forensic Anthropologists have a multiplicity of skills that are used at the JPAC CIL. 
Human remains analysis is one of Dr. Snow's major roles as a forensic anthropologist. He is an expert in the analysis of the biological profile of decomposed, mummified, burned, skeletonized, incomplete, commingled, and fragmentary remains. 
Human Remains Analysis. Human remains analysis is one of Dr. Snow's major roles as a forensic anthropologist. He is an expert in the analysis of the biological profile of decomposed, mummified, burned, skeletonized, incomplete, commingled, and fragmentary remains. Dr. Snow can quickly determine whether bones are human and whether they are forensically significant, which can save law enforcement many hours at the scene.
Forensic anthropology is the application of the science of anthropology and its various subfields, including forensic archaeology and forensic taphonomy, in a legal setting. Forensic anthropologists are also instrumental to the investigation and documentation of genocide and mass graves. Along with forensic pathologists, forensic dentists, and homicide investigators, forensic anthropologists commonly testify in court as expert witnesses.
A biological profile is a term from anthropology that describes the physical features of an person before he or she passed away. Advances in forensics and medical science have helped anthropologists extrapolate entire biological profiles from the smallest pieces of evidence. For example, just finding a few bones can help a forensic expert create a biological profile for an ancient human or a murder victim. Although tissue samples are important in forensic anthropology, the core of biological profile crafting is from bone samples
Analyze / Biological Profile. You have sent the evidence to the Forensic Anthropology lab. Identifying unknown individuals is a key part of forensic anthropology. In this section you will assist in the identification process by constructing a biological profile from the recovered remains. Biological Profile. There are a few basic characteristics that can be used to help identify an individual. Characteristics like male/female, young/old, and tall/short are broad, but may be narrowed down (e.g. 40-50 yrs old) or added to with information like ancestry, or injuries/disease to further refine a search.