BREAKING DOWN 'Unearned Premium'. For example, assume an insurer writes a five-year insurance policy that is fully prepaid by the insured party. Insurance premiums paid are $2,000 per year, for a total of $10,000 for the five-year period. At the end of the first year, the insurer would have earned a premium of $2,000 and would have an unearned premium of $8,000. The premium corresponding to the time period remaining on an insurance policy. Unearned premiums are proportionate to the unexpired portion of the risk, for which coverage has been sought
Motor A is ceded to reinsurer (50% is self-retention, 50% is reinsurers' share). Reinsurer's premium is calculated as follows: 100,000 * 50% = 50,000 USD * 5.4% = 2,700 USD, where 5.4% - rate used for reinsurance purposes (instead of 9% on direct insurance). Reinsurers' share in Unearned Premium Reserve on Quota share reinsurance treaty. Dear all! I need your professional advise very much as we are having big discussions regarding this question with my colleagues.
DEFINITION of 'Unearned Premium'. The premium corresponding to the time period remaining on an insurance policy. Unearned premiums are proportionate to the unexpired portion of the risk, for which coverage has been sought by the insured party.
A premium paid on a reinsurance policy before it is due. For example, one may pay six months' worth of premiums in January instead of paying each month from January to June. If the policyholder cancels before February, the reinsurer should refund the premiums March, April, May and June. 
Ceded premiums are charged to income over the applicable term of the various reinsurance contracts with third party reinsurers. Prepaid reinsurance premiums represent the unexpired portion of premiums ceded to reinsurers and are reported as part of other assets. Premiums and Unearned Premium Reserves. Premiums are recognized as revenues pro rata over the policy period. Unearned premium reserves represent the unexpired portion ofpolicy premiums. 
The unearned premium reserve is often referred to as the reinsurance reserve because it provides a fund for the reinsurance of outstanding policies and bonds, whether voluntarily by the insurer or mandatorily by the Superintendent in the event of rehabilitation or insolvency. 43 Am. Jur. 2d Insurance § 28 (1962). 
The amount of earned premium from this current year's policy is half of 1 month (approx 5% for the year) with the remaining 95% to be earned the following year. The entry is to debit Unearned Reinsurance - 20X1 (P&L) and to credit Unearned Reinsurance Reserve (Bal Sheet). The entry is to debit Reinsurance Premium Income-CEDED and credit Reinsurance Payable. The Company has paid the outstanding ceded premiums of $15,000,000. The entry is to credit Cash and debit Reinsurance PayableThe Company's direct written policy period was from July 1, 20X1 to June 30, 20X2. The amount of earned premium of $12,000,000 from this current year's policy is only 6 months (50% of the year) with the remaining 6 months to be earned in the following year
Admitted Reinsurance (Authorized Reinsurance) Reinsurance for which credit is given for the unearned premiums and unpaid claims in a ceding company’s Annual Statement because the reinsurance is placed in an admitted reinsurance company and is licensed to transact business in the jurisdiction in question. Page 1 of 18 GLOSSARY OF REINSURANCE TERMINOLOGY Term Definition Accident Year Experience Reinsurance experience calculated by matching the total value of all losses occurring during a 12-month period with premiums earned for the same period.
DEF buys an aggregate excess of loss treaty for the entire book on January 1 st, for 10% of gross premium, that returns 90% of losses above a loss ratio of 100%. The reinsurance premium is payable at the start of the year. (Note that this assumption results in zero ceded unearned at December 31 st. 