A couple who intends to be married in New York State must apply in person for a marriage license to any town or city clerk in the state. The application for a license must be signed by both applicants in the presence of the town or city clerk. A representative cannot apply for the license on behalf of the applicants. 
Many states require you to file a police report if your driver's license has been lost or stolen or if you know someone is using someone else's driver license numbers. Click around DMV.org to learn the requirements for your state. We list all the documentation needed, and let you know how and where to get it done. If your state offers replacements online, we'll let you know. And for many states, we even list the fees for a replacement license. It is illegal to drive without a driver's license that shows your driver license number in your possession. Let us inform you of the steps to take in order to get your driver's license back―fast. 1  Alabama. 2  Alaska. 3  Arizona. 4  Arkansas
Fees for a New Mexico Driver License. The fee is $18.00 for a four-year license or $34.00 for an eight-year license. Drivers who are 75 years old or older must renew their licenses yearly, but they are not charged renewal fees. State law now requires a DWI records check on all drivers moving to New Mexico from out-of-state. To pay for the records check, those drivers are charged an additional one-time $15.00 fee, increasing their total to $33.00 for a four-year license or $49.00 for an eight-year license.
How to Apply for a New Driver's License in Louisiana. Updated on Wed, 2/4/2015. Louisiana residents holding a driver's license from another state need to apply for a license within 30 days from time of residence. They will need to take only a vision test at the time of application, unless the license has been expired for more than one year, in which case a written test is required. For more information, see fee and duration of license. You can also contact your local OMV office to find out the exact fees. The validity of a Louisiana driver's license is four years.
Apply for your NYS security guard registration card. To apply for your NYS security guard registration card, you need to first get electronically fingerprinted (cost $101.45) and then send to Albany the fingerprint receipt, the application, any other required documentation and a $36 money order. 1  5 Edit step. 
If you're new to Florida and have a valid driver's license from your previous state, you must have it converted to a FL license within 30 days of becoming a resident. Follow the instructions listed below to apply for your FL driver's license. More information can be found on our Applying for a New License (Teen Drivers) in Florida page. If you're 18 years old or older, you will be able to apply for your FL driver's license.
Get your license. Before you leave the licensing office, you’ll need to turn in your out-of-state driver license/ID card. You’ll get a temporary license that allows you to drive for 45 days. Your permanent license will be mailed within 7–10 days. If you don’t receive it within 30 days, please go to a driver licensing office. 5. Before you leave the licensing office, you’ll need to turn in your out-of-state driver license/ID card. You’ll get a temporary license that allows you to drive for 45 days. Your permanent license will be mailed within 7–10 days.