Whats the legality of driving with a wrist in plaster? Now I would have thought that you would not be allowed as you wouldn't have full control of the vehicle (arm is in plaster from the fingers to the elbow with a restricted grip). 
Avoid driving or operating machinery. This is particularly important if you have broken the wrist of your dominant hand. It is unsafe to drive in a cast and your doctor will likely tell you not to drive. 1  Although it is not illegal to drive with a wrist cast, use sound judgement when deciding whether to drive or not. 1 in 10 broken bones in the United States is a broken distal radius. A broken wrist can happen when you fall or get hit by something. People at particularly high risk for broken wrists include athletes who play high-impact sports and people with osteoporosis (thin, fragile bones).
A broken arm or wrist is usually caused by a fall onto an outstretched arm. It typically takes about six to eight weeks to heal in adults, and less time in children. Doctors refer to all breaks or cracks in bones as fractures. An X-ray in hospital is the only way to confirm whether or not the bone is broken. If it's a clean break, you may have heard a snap or a grinding noise during the accident. The bone can break straight across, diagonally, or in a spiral pattern.
A broken wrist actually can include the distal radius and/or ulna as well as several other bones in the wrist (the carpal bones). It is a fairly common injury. In fact, the radius is the most commonly broken bone in the arm. 1 in 10 broken bones in the United States is a broken distal radius. A broken wrist can happen when you fall or get hit by something. People at particularly high risk for broken wrists include athletes who play high-impact sports and people with osteoporosis (thin, fragile bones).
Best Answer: It's not illegal. Driving with a fractured wrist is a judgment call. Assuming you are a licensed and insured driver it is up to you to decide. As long as you are not mentally impaired from substance use like alcohol you would be fit to drive. Report Abuse. I don't think there are any laws against driving like that... i drove for 9 weeks with one hand due to a broken wrist and a long arm cast... but it puts you at a much greater risk of getting into an accident.
Best Answer: i know lots of people that drive with one hand all the time. however... my mom shattered her wrist in January, and is still on the mend. she chose not to drive until the cast was off, but she still can't use that hand to drive. from being in the car with her, if the pain is distracting, then don't drive.
Most the time, these treatments will be enough. But sometimes, people with a broken wrist need surgery. Your doctor might suggest this if the bone is not likely to heal well in a cast. Sometimes, pins, plates, screws, or other devices are needed to hold the bone in place so it can mend. 
While any of the many bones in the wrist can break, fracture of the wrist normally refers to a break(s) of the end of the forearm bones, which are the 'radius' on the thumb side, and the 'ulna' on the little finger side. Driving should be possible within 1-2 weeks, if the wrist has been fixed. If you have been advised to use a plaster cast, return to driving will take longer. Before driving do check that you can manage all controls and start with short journeys.
These symptoms may also occur if your arm or wrist is sprained rather than broken (read about sprains and strains). An X-ray in hospital is the only way to confirm whether or not the bone is broken. If it's a clean break, you may have heard a snap or a grinding noise during the accident. The bone can break straight across, diagonally, or in a spiral pattern.