Advertising agency. 1  1. 2  Advertising agency An advertising agency or ad agency is a service business dedicated to creating, planning and handling advertising (and sometimes other forms of promotion) for its clients. 1
Full Definition of AGENCY. 1. a: the office or function of an agent b: the relationship between a principal and that person's agent. 2. : the capacity, condition, or state of acting or of exerting power: operation. 3. 4. 5. See agency defined for English-language learners. See agency defined for kids. 
1 Such specialist advertising agencies are also usually full-service, in that they offer all the basic advertising agency services in their area of specialization plus other, peripheral advertising services related to their area of specialization. 1 Advertising agency An advertising agency or ad agency is a service business dedicated to creating, planning and handling advertising (and sometimes other forms of promotion) for its clients.
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees also known as The UN Refugee Agency is a United Nations agency mandated to protect and support refugees at the request of a government or the UN itself and assists in their voluntary repatriation, local integration or resettlement to a third country. Its mission is to contribute to the building of peace,the eradication of poverty,sustainable development and intercultural dialogue through education,the sciences,culture,communication and information. To add entries to your own vocabulary, become a member of Reverso community or login if you are already a member.
Managers, human resource generalists and recruitment specialists may be tasked with carrying out recruitment, but in some cases public-sector employment agencies, commercial recruitment agencies, or specialist search consultancies are used to undertake parts of the process. Recruitment refers to the overall process of attracting, selecting and appointing suitable candidates for jobs (either permanent or temporary) within an organization.
So then, the definition of Human Services is a service that is provided to people in order to help them stabilize their life and find self-sufficiency through guidance, counseling, treatment and the providing for of basic needs. 
noun. 1 A person who concentrates primarily on a particular subject or activity; a person highly skilled in a specific and restricted field: he is a specialist in psychometric testing [with modifier]: the study was undertaken by a market-research specialist. 1 Employers in the financial services sector are slow to recruit marketing candidates from outside their own specialist field. 2  Not long ago, technology recruitment was one of the most active, and profitable, specialist areas within the Irish recruitment market.
Public relations (PR) is the practice of managing the spread of information between an individual or an organization (such as a business, government agency, or a nonprofit organization) and the public. Public relations professionals typically work for PR and marketing firms, businesses and companies, government, government agencies and public officials as PIOs and nongovernmental organizations and nonprofit organizations.
by Greg. In the Digital Marketing arena today, clients have two options: small specialist agencies or full service agencies that can provide a holistic, integrated solution. Ironically, after three decades of spinning off specialist divisions it is the big network agencies that now seem to prefer the full service strategy. It is a confusing situation for both clients and agencies alike and the uncertainty creates an environment where incompetents and charlatans thrive.
The specialist vs. full service dilemma is a classic case of what business theorists call “integrated vs. modular organization.” An integrated organization is similar to a full service agency and almost everything is done in-house. Ironically, after three decades of spinning off specialist divisions it is the big network agencies that now seem to prefer the full service strategy. It is a confusing situation for both clients and agencies alike and the uncertainty creates an environment where incompetents and charlatans thrive.