At the five-vesicle stage, the forebrain separates into the diencephalon (thalamus, hypothalamus, subthalamus, epithalamus, and pretectum) and the telencephalon which develops into the cerebrum. The cerebrum consists of the cerebral cortex, underlying white matter, and the basal ganglia. (Redirected from Prosencephalon). In the anatomy of the brain of vertebrates, the forebrain or prosencephalon is the rostral-most (forward-most) portion of the brain. The forebrain, the midbrain (mesencephalon), and hindbrain (rhombencephalon) are the three primary portions of the brain during early development of the central nervous system. It controls body temperature, reproductive functions, eating, sleeping, and any display of emotions
Sleep and waking patterns are controlled in the forebrain. The forebrain controls many functions, including smelling. The largest part of the brain, the forebrain processes cognitive, auditory, visual and sensory information. Located in the forebrain, the hippocampus and amygdala are parts of the limbic system. The two main sections of the forebrain, however, are the telencephalon and the diencephalon. The telecephalon includes the cerebral cortex, the subcortical structures, and the corpus callosum, while the diencephalon includes the thalamus and the hypothalamus.
Introduction. The forebrain (proencephalon) is the largest part of the brain, most of which is cerebrum. Other important structures found in the forebrain include the thalamus, the hypothalamus and the limbic system. 
The Forebrain. The brain itself is divided into three basic units: the forebrain, midbrain and hindbrain. The forebrain consists primarily of the cerebrum and structures hidden beneath it. The cerebrum itself consists of pairs of frontal lobes, parietal lobes, temporal lobes and occipital lobes. A midline section of the brain, showing the left hemisphere, appears in the logo at the top of the home page
The brain is made of three main parts: the forebrain, midbrain, and hindbrain. The forebrain consists of the cerebrum, thalamus, and hypothalamus (part of the limbic system). The midbrain consists of the tectum and tegmentum. The hindbrain is made of the cerebellum, pons and medulla. Often the midbrain, pons, and medulla are referred to together as the brainstem. The Cerebrum: The cerebrum or cortex is the largest part of the human brain, associated with higher brain function such as thought and action.
In general, the forebrain processes cognitive, auditory, sensory, and visual information, as well as being involved in the forming and storage of memory and emotion. Much of what the forebrain does is linked to the cerebrum. The two main sections of the forebrain, however, are the telencephalon and the diencephalon. The telecephalon includes the cerebral cortex, the subcortical structures, and the corpus callosum, while the diencephalon includes the thalamus and the hypothalamus.
The basal forebrain is a collection of structures located to the front of and below the striatum. It includes the nucleus accumbens, nucleus basalis, diagonal band of Broca, substantia innominata, and medial septal nuclei. Stimulating the basal forebrain gives rise to acetylcoline release, which induces wakefulness and REM sleep, whereas inhibition of acetylcholine release in the basal forebrain by adenosine causes slow wave sleep. Adenosine acts on A1 receptors of cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain.