The enriched classroom environment that resulted would not have occurred without the research stance, question, and journey. Teacher Research empowers teachers to make a positive difference in terms of classroom practice; it enables us to provide relevant information about teaching and learning in actual classrooms.
Teacher Research is not something done TO us; it is something done BY us. The goal of Teacher Research is to put Best Practices about teaching/learning into actual practice in your classroom. And the person who does that is you, the classroom teacher. Teacher Research empowers teachers to make a positive difference in terms of classroom practice; it enables us to provide relevant information about teaching and learning in actual classrooms.
One answer is to conduct action research. The goal of action research is to investigate a self-selected issue in your own classroom to effect positive changes in your teaching and in your students' learning. In this way, you have the opportunity to extend existing professional development experiences to meet your individual needs and the needs of your students. For example, you could look at the kinds of strategies that your students use to interpret authentic texts. Action research can also be used to investigate how a change in your practice might affect students' learning, participation, and motivation.
Since action research does not aim to increase knowledge, issues of research reliability and validity can generally be downplayed in action research while practicality and immediate usefulness become more important. For this reason, action research often seems an attractive option for teachers new to research. It looks easy-action researchers do not have to worry about creating valid research designs, about statistics, or about concepts like triangulation and replicability.
Please cite as: Hine, G. S. C. (2013). The importance of action research in teacher education programs. In Design, develop, evaluate: The core of the learning environment. Proceedings of the 22nd Annual Teaching Learning Forum, 7-8 February 2013. Perth: Murdoch University. Third, teacher educators engaged in a new model of teacher inservice training. After examining the outcomes of the program, Perrett concluded that the results suggest that there is real scope for continuing to develop ways of marrying the input and action research models of inservice teacher development (p. 9).
At the same time, action research can enhance the lives of those professionals who work within educational systems. To illustrate, action research has been directly linked to the professional growth and development of teachers (Hensen, 1996; Osterman & Kottkamp, 1993; Tomlinson, 1995). Third, teacher educators engaged in a new model of teacher inservice training. After examining the outcomes of the program, Perrett concluded that the results suggest that there is real scope for continuing to develop ways of marrying the input and action research models of inservice teacher development (p. 9).
Action research is actually suitable for any person who wishes to improve his or her performance; or any group or organization who hopes for doing the same. As a matter of fact, action research is widely used in education, especially by teachers who use it to improve their teaching. Teachers from all over the world, from the United States, Australia, New Zealand to Vietnam, etc have employed action research as a part of their teaching and research. ● In most cases, solutions for identified problems are arrived cooperatively among teachers. ● Teachers are often more committed to action research because they identify the areas they view as problematical and in need of change. ● Action research is an ongoing process and its strategies can be widely applied.
By, for, and about teachers. The most obvious difference, of course, is that teachers conduct the research — not district administrators evaluating a teacher or curriculum, and not university faculty or graduate students who may not spend enough time in the classroom to truly understand what’s happening.
Reflection in Teacher Research Reflection is a significant component of self-study and action research (Mills, 2003) as it is a powerful way to know about the self in research and practice as well as to unpack the very self in teaching practice. 
Following the completion of two (2) action research cycles, organisers reflected on the significance of implementing this research-based program for teachers. Specifically, they administered a summative questionnaire to all teacher participants to identify benefits and shortcomings of the program itself. Third, teacher educators engaged in a new model of teacher inservice training. After examining the outcomes of the program, Perrett concluded that the results suggest that there is real scope for continuing to develop ways of marrying the input and action research models of inservice teacher development (p. 9).