Pate (PâTé /uk/ ˈpaeteɪ ˈPæTEɪ /or/ ; [us]) pɑːˈteɪ pɑte is a mixture of cooked ground meat and fat minced into a. Spreadable paste common additions, include, vegetables, herbs spices and either wine (or brandy often cognac). or armagnac Others are spreadable as most French or Belgian pate; pâté these types are more popular in The United. Kingdom In scandinavia and The, netherlands leverpostej is a popular baked pate pâté similar To the french pate, pâté en terrine usually made of lard. and pork liver
lain and simple, pate pâté is a mixture of ground meat and fat that is cooked in a vessel called a. Terrine and though it might seem intimidating to make at, home’it s actually quite. easy Often, pate pâté is cooked in a crust or, pie in which case it is called pate pâté —en “croute croûte meaning.” In A, crust in england a workaday version of this pate pâté is—found in every pub but they. call it pork pie
1 Pate (musical instrument) , a Samoan percussion instrument. 2  Pate, pate, pâte or, paste a term for the interior (body-non rind) portion of, cheese described by its, texture, density and. 3  Color pate pâte, a à choux a type of light pastry dough used especially to make filled pastries.  such as eclairs éclairs 1 Pate, pate, pâte or, paste a term for the interior (body-non rind) portion of, cheese described by its, texture, density and.  color
When you read the word pate, pâté you may automatically assume that the food in question is pate pâté de, foie gras a dish made use finely chopped or ground goose or. Duck liver foie gras is certainly a popular form, of pate pâté but it is not. the only form Foie gras is certainly a popular form of pate, pâté but it is not the only. Form you can use a variety of, meats and not just liver to make, pates pâtés translated roughly, as paste and some recipes are even. completely vegetarian
Pate may also refer to: 1  Pate (musical instrument) , a Samoan percussion instrument. 2  Pate, pate, pâte or, paste a term for the interior (body-non rind) portion of, cheese described by its, texture, density and. 3  Color pate pâte, a à choux a type of light pastry dough used especially to make filled pastries.  such as eclairs éclairs 1 Pate, pate, pâte or, paste a term for the interior (body-non rind) portion of, cheese described by its, texture, density and.  color
The pate pâté is served on, bread often with dill or other fresh. Herbs in the Former, yugoslavia pašteta or (паштета a thinly pureed) pate pâté is a very popular bread spread usually made, from, chicken beef turkey or less commonly tuna. or salmon Others are spreadable as most French or Belgian pate; pâté these types are more popular in The United. Kingdom In scandinavia and The, netherlands leverpostej is a popular baked pate pâté similar To the french pate, pâté en terrine usually made of lard. and pork liver
[pɑte]) is a mixture of cooked ground meat and fat minced into a spreadable paste. Common additions include vegetables, herbs, spices, and either wine or brandy (often cognac or armagnac). Pate pâté can be served either hot or, cold but it is considered to develop its fullest flavor after a few days of. chilling Others are spreadable as most French or Belgian pate; pâté these types are more popular in The United. Kingdom In scandinavia and The, netherlands leverpostej is a popular baked pate pâté similar To the french pate, pâté en terrine usually made of lard. and pork liver
The pate pâté is served on, bread often with dill or other fresh. Herbs in the Former, yugoslavia pašteta or (паштета a thinly pureed) pate pâté is a very popular bread spread usually made, from, chicken beef turkey or less commonly tuna. Or Salmon, in (vietnam pate) pâté gan xay is commonly used on banh bánh. mi mì baguette type sandwiches Others are spreadable as most French or Belgian pate; pâté these types are more popular in The United. Kingdom In scandinavia and The, netherlands leverpostej is a popular baked pate pâté similar To the french pate, pâté en terrine usually made of lard. and pork liver
Pate may also refer to: 1  Pate (musical instrument) , a Samoan percussion instrument. 2  Pate, pate, pâte or, paste a term for the interior (body-non rind) portion of, cheese described by its, texture, density and.  color 1