If you book the rental car under your credit card that offers a loss and damage waiver, the card may pay the deductible as a secondary coverage to your auto policy. It pays to ask your credit card company if it covers your personal auto policy deductible. Often, a personal auto policy covers car loss and damage to a car rental, and it could be more comprehensive than your credit card's coverage. Plus, you don't have to use a particular credit card to get the coverage. Check with your insurance agent to find out what your personal policy offers. Know that your personal auto policy may have a deductible that you need to cover in the off chance something happens with your rental
Before you rent a car: 1) Contact your insurance company. Find out how much coverage you have on your own car. In most cases, the coverage and deductibles you have on your personal auto policy would apply to a rental car, providing it's used for pleasure and not business. If you don't have comprehensive and collision coverage on your own car, you will not be covered if your rental car is stolen or if it is damaged in an accident. 2) Call your credit card company. Find out what insurance your card provides.
You do not own a car. If you do not own a car and therefore do not carry auto insurance, you will need to purchase insurance from the rental agency. Take your time at the rental counter to consider the coverage packages being offered. You may not need the most expensive plan being offered. You are renting a car in a foreign country.
If it's a commercial or business rental, your personal car insurance coverage may not apply. If you'll be paying for the rental with a credit card, check with your credit card company to see what additional rental car coverage is provided. when rental car insurance coverage is a good idea. If you're not currently insured, you'll need to at least buy liability coverage from the rental company before you hit the road. Otherwise, rental insurance isn't legally required — which is not to say it can't help.
If you don't have collision coverage, you'll either have to pay for the rental car insurance or use a credit card to pay for the rental car—one that has rental car insurance built in. Rental car insurance can cost roughly $20 to $40, depending on what plan you select. The collision damage waiver, also known as optional vehicle protection or loss damage waiver, can cost as much as $19 per day and shifts liability for collision damage from the person renting the car to the car rental company.
On the other hand, the rental car company provides this coverage for as much as $29.99 per day, depending on the vehicle and state laws. It seems like a no-brainer to let your credit card cover your car rental. But before you turn down the rental car company's offer, make sure you know what you're getting. Bankrate outlines what you need to know and offers an easy-to-read chart to compare rental car company insurance versus credit card coverage. Often, a personal auto policy covers car loss and damage to a car rental, and it could be more comprehensive than your credit card's coverage. Plus, you don't have to use a particular credit card to get the coverage. Check with your insurance agent to find out what your personal policy offers. Know that your personal auto policy may have a deductible that you need to cover in the off chance something happens with your rental
If you don’t own a car, and you don’t have insurance, you can buy collision / loss damage coverage for about $15 a day,” says Brian Karimzad, director of MileCards.com. Most major credit cards also provide collision coverage when the card is used for the rental. 
But buying the rental car insurance from the rental company can lead to a serious case of sticker shock, possibly doubling your total rental price. What car rental companies may not tell you is that their secondary coverage may duplicate your existing auto insurance protection. 
If you have comprehensive and collision on your own car, you may not need to purchase this coverage. (Note: In New York, collision damage is already included in the rental price and rental car companies are not permitted by law to charge extra for the CDW. New York also restricts the liability of drivers to $100.). If you don't have comprehensive and collision coverage on your own car, you will not be covered if your rental car is stolen or if it is damaged in an accident. 2) Call your credit card company. Find out what insurance your card provides.