A narwhal is like a whale, only nor dorsal fin and a long spiral tusk on its face. Some believe this is what began the unicorn legends. It is mostly found in the Arctic waters … . It is mostly in special concern meaning its almost endangered. Sound is mechanical energy, and anything that exhibits movement can make sound. But the sound has to have something to travel in. A gas or a liquid or a solid is a medium, and … the sound will travel in them (or will be conducted through them).
Narwhal Sounds. Here are the sounds that have been tagged with Narwhal free from SoundBible.com Please bookmark us Ctrl+D and come back soon for updates! All files are available in both Wav and MP3 formats.
i am doing a project in my class and this website really helps me! i actully like the sound that the narwhal makes! and my favorite part is the long spiral tooth that somehow stick out of its skin!!!!!! Allyson 2 years ago. Interesting. Terifying!Sounds like a dinosaur! if I heard that on the water at night Id wet myself! (joking). Mom and Joelle 3 years ago. My 4th grader just taught me something new … I have never heard of a Narwhal.
The narwhal looks like a cross between a whale and a unicorn with its long, spiraled tusk jutting from its head. Males most commonly have tusks, and some may even have two. The tusk, which can grow as long as 10 feet, is actually an enlarged tooth. Unicorn of the Sea: Narwhal Facts. Often dubbed the unicorns of the sea, narwhals are strange and beautiful creatures with long tusks protruding from their heads. Check out some common questions about these near-threatened whales.
A narwhal makes a range of sounds. The sounds include clicks, squeals, trills, and whistles. Scientists still are sorting the possible reasons for the wide array of sounds. But one suggestion is the use of sound for communication, and for the echolocation purposes of hunting and navigation. Sound is mechanical energy, and anything that exhibits movement can make sound. But the sound has to have something to travel in. A gas or a liquid or a solid is a medium, and … the sound will travel in them (or will be conducted through them).
The narwhal, or narwhale (Monodon monoceros), is a medium-sized toothed whale that possesses a large tusk from a protruding canine tooth. It lives year-round in the Arctic waters around Greenland, Canada, and Russia. It is one of two living species of whale in the Monodontidae family, along with the beluga whale. The most conspicuous characteristic of the male narwhal is a single long tusk, a canine tooth that projects from the left side of the upper jaw, through the lip and forms a left-handed helix spiral. Their tusks grow throughout life, reaching lengths from about 1.5 to 3.1 m (4 ft 11 in to 10 ft 2 in).
Like the beluga, narwhals are medium-sized whales. For both sexes, excluding the male's tusk, the total body size can range from 3.95 to 5.5 metres (13.0 to 18.0 feet); the males are slightly larger than the females. The average weight of an adult narwhal is 800 to 1,600 kilograms (1,800 to 3,500 pounds). The most conspicuous characteristic of the male narwhal is a single long tusk, a canine tooth that projects from the left side of the upper jaw, through the lip and forms a left-handed helix spiral. Their tusks grow throughout life, reaching lengths from about 1.5 to 3.1 m (4 ft 11 in to 10 ft 2 in).
Press play to hear the weird, alien, whalish sounds of the narwhal…. Audio clip: Adobe Flash Player (version 9 or above) is required to play this audio clip. Download the latest version here. You also need to have JavaScript enabled in your browser. UPDATE: Some people wanted the narwhal sound mp3. Terifying!Sounds like a dinosaur! if I heard that on the water at night Id wet myself! (joking). Mom and Joelle 3 years ago. My 4th grader just taught me something new … I have never heard of a Narwhal.