The curriculum requirements to become a counseling psychologist are typically very similar from one university to the next. In addition to learning the fundamentals of psychology and research methods, future counseling psychologists will also often learn about different therapy and counseling techniques.
If you enjoy helping people, becoming a counselor can be a great career choice for you. However, there is a lot to consider before becoming a counselor, and many sub-specialties. This article shows you how to land a career as either a social worker, guidance counselor, career counselor, or drug counselor.
Counseling psychologists are a rapidly growing portion of the psychological and counseling communities. These individuals, which are typically counselors with a master's degree or psychologists with a doctorate degree, provide guidance, therapy and advice for clients who have troubling, but often short term, needs.
Earning a bachelor's degree is the first step for prospective counseling psychologists. Students can earn a degree in a related field, such as education or psychology or in an unrelated liberal arts field.
Counseling psychology is a type of applied psychology that can be used to help people gain control of their feelings. This type of psychology focuses on treating individuals with a variety of different emotional, behavioral, and social problems or disorders.
Those interested in counseling psychology careers will usually start by earning a four year Bachelor's degree in psychology. In order to start their careers, however, advanced degrees are usually necessary. A number of universities offer Master's and Doctoral degrees in counseling
With few exceptions, a master’s degree is required to be a school counselor. Although a master’s degree in a related field — psychology, sociology, education — can be considered adequate preparation for a career in counseling, it’s more common and preferable to complete a degree specific to school counseling.
3. Complete your master's degree. If you want to become a licensed career counselor in some states, you must complete a master's degree. Career counselors usually pursue a master's degree in Counseling, with a concentration in vocational or adult counseling.