1 On the File menu, click Print, click Table Syle. 2  Outlook prints a list of every file that is in that folder and includes the file size, date, and other attributes. 3  If Print is not an available option on the File menu, you can use the Print icon button or follow these steps: 4  On the File menu, click Page Setup. 1 In Microsoft Outlook, click Other Shortcuts on the shortcut bar. 2  Click My Computer. 3  Double-click the folder that you want to open. 4  On the File menu, click Print, click Table Syle. 5
1 Using Windows Explorer, Open the Folder whose contents you want to print as a list. 2  Hold down the Shift key and Right-click on any blank space in the folder, and select Open Command Window Here from the Right-Click Menu. 3  In the command prompt that pops up, type in the following command. 
Print a list of files in a folder using an application. To print a file list from a folder with DDFileCatcher, simply select the all the files in the folder, using Ctrl-A, and drag and drop them onto DDFileCatcher, or use the other built-in file search methods. 
I'm expanding the question to include printing a list of files. To print all of the files in a folder, open that folder in Windows Explorer (File Explorer in Windows 8), press CTRL-a to select all of them, right-click any of the selected files, and select Print. You can either double-click the file to load it into Notepad and print from there, or simply right-click the file and select Print. You can change the look of that printed list by adding additional instructions to the dir command. For instance: 1  will print only the file names.
Print list of files in folder in Windows. 1] Using Command Prompt. Open the folder whose list of contents you want to print. Hold down Shift and right-click to open the hidden context menu items. You will see Open command window here. Click on it to open a command prompt window. Else simply type CMD in the address bar and hit Enter to open the command prompt window there. Open List.txt and you will be able to see the list of the files in this folder. Alternatively, you could also use the cd/ command to change the directory from the User directory to Downloads directory as follows: cd C:\Users\ACK\Downloads. 2] Using Paint. Open the directory whos contents list you want to print
To create a text file that contains a list of the contents in a folder, use one of the following methods. NOTE: You cannot export or print a list of the files that are contained in a folder in Windows Explorer. Outlook contains file-management abilities, as well as e-mail message, calendar, and contact management. 1 In Microsoft Outlook, click Other Shortcuts on the shortcut bar. 2  Click My Computer. 3  Double-click the folder that you want to open. 4  On the File menu, click Print, click Table Syle. 5  Outlook prints a list of every file that is in that folder and includes the file size, date, and other attributes.
You can print a list of files by returning to the dark days of DOS. But don't worry; it's not as scary as it sounds. in Windows (or File) Explorer, hold down the SHIFT key as you right-click the folder. Select Open command window here. This opens the DOS-like command window. Type, then press ENTER. Return to Windows Explorer, where you'll find a new file, printit.txt, in the folder. You can either double-click the file to load it into Notepad and print from there, or simply right-click the file and select Print. You can change the look of that printed list by adding additional instructions to the dir command. For instance: 1  will print only the file names.
1 Double-click the folder that you want to open. 2  On the File menu, click Print, click Table Syle. 3  Outlook prints a list of every file that is in that folder and includes the file size, date, and other attributes. 4  If Print is not an available option on the File menu, you can use the Print icon button or follow these steps: 1 In Microsoft Outlook, click Other Shortcuts on the shortcut bar. 2  Click My Computer. 3  Double-click the folder that you want to open. 4  On the File menu, click Print, click Table Syle. 5
To get started, open Explorer and browse to the folder directory above the folder that you want to get the directory listing for. If you want to print out the file and folder listing for C:\Test\MyTestFolder, then navigate to C:\Test, press the SHIFT key and then right-click on the MyTestFolder. Go ahead and select Open command window here from the menu. At the command prompt, you have to type a very simple command: The dir command generates a list of files and folders in the current directory and the right angle bracket says that the output should be sent to a file rather than onto the screen. Once you install it, you have to first choose the directory that you want to print out. You can also choose from a list of favorites on the right hand side. Note that at this point, you should see the output previewed in the bottom text window of the program.