A senior woman is holding a bottle of pills in her hand. Photo Credit Jack Hollingsworth/Photodisc/Getty Images. A Z-Pak is a prepackaged form of the antibiotic azithromycin, sold under the brand name Zithromax. Like other antibiotics, a Z-Pak treats bacterial infections. Zithromax will not cure or shorten the duration of a viral infection. You should never take antibiotics prescribed for another person, and take a Z-Pak only if your doctor recommends it. Azithromycin, like other antibiotics, can have side effects including allergic reactions, diarrhea, nausea or abdominal pain. Zithromax has also been associated with a small increase in the risk of cardiovascular death in some patients, the Food and Drug Administration warns.
I feel much better... Though the cough is still there, the burning chest, and last night i had my final z-pack pill. Current Temp less than 100 How long does it take to FULLY RECOVER. I haven seen my chick in 6 days going on 7, and missed almost 4 days of work due to illness, 2 of which i may get payed for. Follow.
The antibiotic that's sold as Zithromax, Zmax or sometimes referred to as a Z-Pack is prescribed to treat bacterial infections such as bronchitis, pneumonia, or ear infections. Azithromycin, a commonly-prescribed antibiotic, may trigger a potentially deadly irregular heart rhythm for some patients, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) warned Tuesday.
In the setting that your friend is talking about, azithromycin is very commonly used to pneumonia and bronchitis in adults, among other infections. If you have severe cold symptoms, I would recommend that you go to see your primary care doctor for an evaluation. This answer is for general informational purposes only and is not a substitute for professional medical advice. If you think you may have a medical emergency, call your doctor or (in the United States) 911 immediately. Always seek the advice of your doctor before starting or changing treatment.
If you are suffering any type of bacterial infection, such as an ear infection, sexually transmitted disease, respiratory infection, or skin infection, your doctor may prescribe an antibiotic called Zithromax. 
A Z pack is a brand name for a pre packaged 5 day course of azithromycin, which is a common antibiotic. This answer is for general informational purposes only and is not a substitute for professional medical advice. If you think you may have a medical emergency, call your doctor or (in the United States) 911 immediately. Always seek the advice of your doctor before starting or changing treatment.
Azithromycin is an antibiotic useful for the treatment of a number of bacterial infections. This includes middle ear infections, strep throat, pneumonia, traveler's diarrhea, and certain other intestinal infections. 
Even though you have taken all of the medications, it is not done. The Z-pak continues to work in your system for the 10 days like a normal course of antibiotics. The other part of that is if your provider was not 100% sure that this was an actual sinus infection caused by bacteria... then you may not feel any better by the z-pak. I had a non bacterial sinus issue that has kicked my butt for nearly two weeks now. There is nothing medication wise that I can do about it (like what can be done for a bacterial sinus infection). Good luck and I hope you feel better. 
In fact, antibiotics like azithromycin will not help a viral infection get better any quicker at all. Occasionally, however, cold like symptoms can be a sign of a more serious bacterial infection (like pneumonia or bronchitis). Some of these infection may require antibiotics, like azithromycin. This answer is for general informational purposes only and is not a substitute for professional medical advice. If you think you may have a medical emergency, call your doctor or (in the United States) 911 immediately. Always seek the advice of your doctor before starting or changing treatment.