Structures of the Hindbrain. As mentioned, the hindbrain is comprised of the pons, medulla, and cerebellar structures of your brain, which together essentially act as the 'commander in charge' of your automated systems (talk about an important job!). The term hindbrain refers to the oldest (evolutionarily speaking) portion of our brain, which is composed of the brainstem (made up of the pons and the medulla oblongata) and the cerebellum.
The hindbrain can be subdivided in a variable number of transversal swellings called rhombomeres. In the human embryo eight rhombomeres can be distinguished, from caudal to rostral: Rh8-Rh1. The hindbrain is homologous to a part of the arthropod brain known as the sub-oesophageal ganglion, in terms of the genes that it expresses and its position in between the brain and the nerve cord.
The hindbrain controls body functions such as breathing and heart rate. The cerebellum, located in the hindbrain, plays a role in physical activity. The hindbrain is located in the lower, rear portion of the brain. The hindbrain is responsible for making a person's heart beat without him or he making it do so. View slideshow of images above.
Scientists refer to this 'reptilian' portion as the hindbrain; in other words, the rear portion of the brain. The hindbrain is the region of the brain formed by the pons, medulla oblongata (also known as just the medulla), and the cerebellum. The term hindbrain refers to the oldest (evolutionarily speaking) portion of our brain, which is composed of the brainstem (made up of the pons and the medulla oblongata)
The pons is the part of the hindbrain located above the medulla. It forms a kind of bridge between the medulla and the cerebellum. This structure relays messages between the cerebellum and the cerebrum, which is part of the forebrain. The cerebellum, located in the hindbrain, plays a role in physical activity. The hindbrain is located in the lower, rear portion of the brain. The hindbrain is responsible for making a person's heart beat without him or he making it do so. View slideshow of images above.
controls basic functions such as breathing, heart rate, & blood pressure. The hindbrain includes the cerebellum, the pons, and the medulla oblongata. the upper brain stem, the medulla, the pons, and the cerebellum. 3 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body. 2  Electrical impulses are sent along the nervous system to and from the brain that regulate all movement.
the person would most likely die,or atleast go into a vegitable state. the hindbrain contains the reflex parts of the nervous system. this includes the involuntary muscl … es which include the cardiac muscles (heart) and the diegestive tract muscles. the upper brain stem, the medulla, the pons, and the cerebellum. 3 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body. 2  Electrical impulses are sent along the nervous system to and from the brain that regulate all movement.
The hindbrain or rhombencephalon is a developmental categorization of portions of the central nervous system in vertebrates. It includes the medulla, pons, and cerebellum. Together they support vital bodily processes. The hindbrain is homologous to a part of the arthropod brain known as the sub-oesophageal ganglion, in terms of the genes that it expresses and its position in between the brain and the nerve cord.
From an evolutionary perspective, the hindbrain is the oldest part of our brain and is located deep within our head and on top of our spinal cord. Because this was our first and most basic brain (way back before we were cave people) it controls most of our most basic functions. Before discussing the anatomy of the brain I just want you to realize that at this level EXACT areas of the brain are not all that important. As long as you understand the general function and location you are going to do fine.