A leaded ceramic multilayer capacitor is a fixed capacitor with the ceramic material acting as the dielectric. It consists of several layers of conductive plates each separated by a layer of ceramic dielectric. Layers of ceramic and metal are alternated to make a multilayer chip. This chip equipped with lead wires and epoxy coated makes a Leaded MLCC.
The ceramic forms the dielectric and serves as a carrier for the metallic electrodes. The minimum thickness of the dielectric layer, which today (2013) for low voltage capacitors is in the size range of 0.5 micrometers is limited downwards by the grain size of the ceramic powder. The X2Y ceramic chip capacitor however is a 4 terminal chip device. It is constructed like a standard two-terminal MLCC out of the stacked ceramic layers with an additional third set of shield electrodes incorporated in the chip.
MLCCs (Multilayer Ceramic Capacitors) are available at Mouser Electronics from industry leading manufacturers. Mouser is an authorized distributor for many MLCC capacitor manufacturers including ATC, AVX, Kemet, Murata, TDK, Vishay & many more. Please view our huge selection of MLCC capacitors below. 
Ceramic capacitors are one of the most widely used forms of capacitor used in electronics equipment these days. Ceramic capacitors have also been used for many years, being found in valve or tube circuits dating from the 1930s. Today ceramic capacitors area available in a variety of formats ranging from leaded components to surface mount technology, SMT varieties. 1 Class 3: Class 3 ceramic capacitors offer a still high volumetric efficiency, but again this is at the expense of poor accuracy and stability and a low dissipation factor. 2  They are also not normally able to withstand high voltages.
A ceramic capacitor uses a ceramic material as the dielectric. Ceramics were one of the first materials to be used in the producion of capacitors, as it was a known insulator. A ceramic capacitor is a capacitor which uses a ceramic material as the dielectric. The two most common types are multi-layer ceramic capacitors and ceramic disc capacitors
Previous studies [3][4] have found that multilayer ceramic capacitors (MLCC) exhibit a variety of behaviors during degradation, including parametric drift and intermittent failures. The objective of this study is to develop an approach to detect failures, identify failure precursors, and calculate remaining life. Figure 2 to Figure 4 show the normalized values for the five survived capacitors of IR, DF and C respectively. In these figures, the X-axis is the test time for each capacitor (repeated for each of the five capacitors), and the Y axis is the normalized value for IR, C and DF.
Ceramic Capacitor. A ceramic capacitor is a capacitor which uses a ceramic material as the dielectric. The two most common types are multi-layer ceramic capacitors and ceramic disc capacitors
A ceramic capacitor is a fixed value capacitor in which ceramic material acts as the dielectric. It is constructed of two or more alternating layers of ceramic and a metal layer acting as the electrodes. The composition of the ceramic material defines the electrical behavior and therefore applications. The X2Y ceramic chip capacitor however is a 4 terminal chip device. It is constructed like a standard two-terminal MLCC out of the stacked ceramic layers with an additional third set of shield electrodes incorporated in the chip.
Ceramic capacitor definition. A ceramic capacitor is a capacitor which uses a ceramic material as the dielectric. The two most common types are multi-layer ceramic capacitors and ceramic disc capacitors