Lesson Summary. Specific to plant cells is a structure called the tonoplast. The tonoplast is the membrane that surrounds the central or large vacuole of the plant. The tonoplast must work to keep the vacuole acidic by bringing in protons. This allows the vacuole's enzymes to break down food matter.
The vacuole is delimited from the cytosol by the vacuolar membrane, which is also called tonoplast. Vacuoles are compartments of the secretory pathway derived from the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi apparatus. Their function include the storage of ions, sugars, proteins and xenobiotics. 
The membrane that surrounds the vacuole is the tonoplast. This make sense with the name now, as we see the name means 'tension' and the tonoplast keeps tension on the vacuole. This helps to give the vacuole some form of structure. The tonoplast is the membrane that surrounds the central or large vacuole of the plant. The tonoplast must work to keep the vacuole acidic by bringing in protons. This allows the vacuole's enzymes to break down food matter.
Tonoplast. Definition. noun, plural: tonoplasts. The cytoplasmic membrane surrounding the vacuole, separating the vacuolar contents from the cytoplasm in a cell. Supplement. As a membrane, it is mainly involved in regulating the movements of ions around the cell, and isolating materials that might be harmful or a threat to the cell. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The tonoplast is the semi-permeable membrane surrounding the cell vacuole, and its job is to separate the fluid filled vacuole from surrounding cytoplasm. The Vacuole of a plant cell storage water for the cell the use when the cell needs it It helps digest all of the waste that the plant eats. expel waste products, just like … the vacuole in other cells    It stores water and wastes.
The vacuolar membrane is a selective membrane. The vacuolar membrane or tonoplast is a selective membrane and the passage of chemicals through it is controlled in both directions. Water can pass in and out freely but other small molecules are retained within the vacuole. Quick look: A vacuole is a membrane-enclosed fluid filled sac found in the cells of plants including fungi. Vacuoles can be large organelles occupying between 30% and 90% of a cell by volume.
A membrane barrier called a tonoplast limits each vacuole. This membrane is remarkable in that it can surround a small amount of fluid and then, after a short amount of time, during which water is taken in, stretch to become an organelle occupying as much as 95% of the cell by volume. Quick look: A vacuole is a membrane-enclosed fluid filled sac found in the cells of plants including fungi. Vacuoles can be large organelles occupying between 30% and 90% of a
The tonoplast, or vacuole membrane, is a phospholipid bilayer that creates the vacuolar lumen (interior). Associated with this membrane are a variety of transport proteins res … ponsible for the passage of water and solutes into and out of the vacuole. The tonoplast is the semi-permeable membrane surrounding the cell vacuole, and its job is to separate the fluid filled vacuole from surrounding cytoplasm.
A vacuole is a cell organelle found in a number of different cell types. Vacuoles are fluid-filled, enclosed structures that are separated from the cytoplasm by a single membrane. They are found mostly in plant cells and fungi. However, some protist, animal cells, and bacteria also contain vacuoles. Vacuoles are responsible for a wide variety of important functions in a cell including nutrient storage, detoxification, and waste exportation. A plant cell vacuole is surrounded by a single membrane called the tonoplast. Vacuoles are formed when vesicles, released by the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi complex, merge together. Newly developing plant cells typically contain a number of smaller vacuoles