calculator. n. 1. (Mathematics) a device for performing mathematical calculations, esp an electronic device that can be held in the hand. 2. a person or thing that calculates. 3. (Mathematics) a set of tables used as an aid to calculations. → آلَةٌ حَا سِبَة kalkulačka lommeregner Taschenrechner αριθμομηχανή calculadora laskin calculatrice kalkulator calcolatrice 計算機 계산기 rekenmachine kalkulator kalkulator calculadora калькулятор miniräknare เครื่องคิดเลข hesap makinesi máy t tinh tính 计算器
calculator-Computer Definition. A machine that provides arithmetic capabilities. The most basic calculators, which can cost pennies to purchase, add, subtract, multiply and divide. More advanced devices handle sines, cosines and other trigonometric functions. Whether mechanical or electronic, all calculators accept numeric input from dials, levers or a keypad. The results are displayed as mechanical digits, on punched paper tape or on a screen, such as an LCD.
Welcome to Version 3.0 of the VAE Calculator. Version 3.0 operates based upon the currently posted (January 2015) VAE protocol. The Calculator is a web-based tool that is designed to help you learn how the VAE surveillance definition algorithm works and assist you in making VAE determinations. 
(plural calculators). 1  A mechanical or electronic device that performs mathematical calculations. ( 2 dated) A person who performs mathematical calculation. 3  A person who calculates (in the sense of scheming). More advanced devices handle sines, cosines and other trigonometric functions. Whether mechanical or electronic, all calculators accept numeric input from dials, levers or a keypad. The results are displayed as mechanical digits, on punched paper tape or on a screen, such as an LCD.
Late Latin calculatorius, from Latin calculatus + -orius-ory. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. To access the complete Unabridged Dictionary, with an additional 300,000 words that aren't in our free dictionary, start a free trial.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: calculator (Noun). A mechanical or electronic device that performs mathematical calculations. calculator (Noun). A person who performs mathematical calculation. calculator (Noun). A person who calculates (in the sense of scheming). 
Calculate Your Body Mass Index. Body mass index (BMI) is a measure of body fat based on height and weight that applies to adult men and women. 1  Enter your weight and height using standard or metric measures. 2  Select Compute BMI and your BMI will appear below. 
1. One who computes or reckons: one who estimates or considers the force and effect of causes, with a view to form a correct estimate of the effects. Ambition is no exact calculator. - Burke
Definition of CALCULATOR for Kids. 1. : a person who calculates. 2. : a usually small electronic device for solving mathematical problems. Learn More About CALCULATOR. Spanish Central: Spanish translation of calculator. Nglish: Translation of calculator for Spanish speakers. Britannica English: Translation of calculator for Arabic speakers. Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about