Prunes are high in dietary fiber, with just one prune providing 3 percent of the recommended daily intake of fiber. They also contain a high amount of a natural sugar, sorbitol, that functions as a laxative because it pulls moisture into the digestive tract and facilitates bowel movements. 
Prunes are primarily famous for being a laxative because they are rich in fiber. It's this same vital component that makes them perfect for healthy eating and keeping your hunger to a minimum. A prune is a dried plum, typically the European variety of plum. Though relatively high in calories for their size, prunes have a reputation as a dieter's friend. They add a powerful dose of fiber and some nutrients to your diet that are needed when you follow a lower-calorie meal plan. Health Benefits. Prunes are a sweet way to add fat-free laxative fiber to your diet. A single prune contains more than half a gram of fiber and more than one gram of sorbitol (a carbohydrate that our bodies do not absorb well). Large amounts of sorbitol can cause diarrhea
Macronutrients: Prunes are rich in carbohydrates. They are also an excellent source of dietary fiber (6.1 grams per 100 grams). Prunes contain very little protein and hardly any fat. Vitamins: Prunes are a good source of vitamin A and vitamin K. Minerals and Trace Elements: Prunes are a good source of potassium, copper, boron and magnesium. Phenolic Compounds: Prunes are rich in phenolic compounds (184 mg/100 g) such as neochlorogenic and chlorogenic acids.
2. They help prevent type 2 diabetes and obesity. Prunes and plums are high in soluble fibre that helps to keep blood sugar levels stable. Soluble fibre slows the rate that food leaves the stomach and, as a result, delays the absorption of sugar into the blood stream. Soluble fibre also increases the body’s sensitivity to insulin
Prunes are a good source of soluble and insoluble fibre (studies link the former to lowered blood cholesterol levels), prunes rank foremost in the US Department of Agriculture (USDA) list of high-scoring antioxidant fruits. Potassium for Cardiovascular Health. Prunes are a good source of potassium, providing 9% of the daily value for this mineral in a quarter-cup. Potassium is an essential mineral for maintaining normal blood pressure and heart function.
This is how: Prunes are a good source of dietary fiber, with 100 grams of prunes containing approximately 6.1 grams of fiber. Dietary fiber is the part of plant foods that the enzymes in your body cannot digest and that is therefore not absorbed into the bloodstream. Minerals and Trace Elements: Prunes are a good source of potassium, copper, boron and magnesium. Phenolic Compounds: Prunes are rich in phenolic compounds (184 mg/100 g) such as neochlorogenic and chlorogenic acids.
Prunes and Fiber. For starters, prunes, also called dried plums, are high in insoluble fiber, which is perhaps one of the reasons they help prevent constipation. And because it's incredibly absorbent, insoluble fiber soaks up large amounts of water, making stools larger and easier to pass, decreasing transit time. The insoluble fiber in prunes also provide food for good bacteria in the large intestine. When the good bacteria use this insoluble fiber, they produce butyric acid, which is a short-chain fatty acid that is the primary fuel for intestinal cells to maintain a healthy colon.
3. Prunes are a good source of potassium, an electrolyte that assists in a variety of vital bodily functions. This mineral helps with digestion, heart rhythm, nerve impulses, and muscle contractions, as well as blood pressure.