Flutterby 'Un papillon' is French for 'a butterfly' Technically butterflies (and moths) are known as Lepidoptera, a name meaning 'scale-wings'. People who study butterflies and moths are called lepidopterists. The study of butterflies alone is sometimes known as 'butterflying', and those who study butterflies alone ar … e sometimes known as 'butterflyers'. 3 people found this useful.
tube used to drink nectar (proboscis) Down 1. another name for butterfly larva (caterpillar)4. number of wings on an adult butterfly (four)6. feelers on a butterfly's head (antennae)7. a caterpillar is a butterfly in this stage of life (larva)9. middle body segment of an insect (thorax)10. number of legs on an adult butterfly 17. tube used to drink nectar Down 1. another name for butterfly larva 4. number of wings on an adult butterfly 6. feelers on a butterfly's head 7. a caterpillar is a butterfly in this stage of life 9. middle body segment of an insect 10. sweet liquid in flowers that butterflies drink 11
[C20: from the theory that a butterfly flapping its wings in one part of the world might ultimately cause a hurricane in another part of the world]. 
The Lifecycle of a Butterfly. Butterflies go through a life cycle. A butterfly has four stages in its life cycle. Each stage is different. Each stage also has a different goal. A butterfly becoming an adult is called metamorphosis. The life cycle process can take a month to year. Butterflies go through a life cycle. There are four stages. The first stage is the eggs. This is where a girl butterfly lays eggs. She lays them on a leaf. The second stage is the caterpillar. This is where the eggs hatch. It takes about five days for the eggs to hatch.
Medical Definition of BUTTERFLY NEEDLE. : a short needle that has plastic tabs on either side which aid especially in manipulating and stabilizing the needle during insertion. What made you want to look up butterfly needle? 
Social Butterfly. It's a word/title that is usually used to describe someone that is popular. Often times those people are friendly or pretty, but it is not always the case. It is not always used to describe popularity alone, it could also be describing someone who is friendly to strangers. Typically a word used to describe females.
The group comprises the large superfamily Papilionoidea, along with two smaller groups, the skippers (superfamily Hesperioidea) and the moth-butterflies (superfamily Hedyloidea). Butterfly fossils date to the Palaeocene, about 56 million years ago. Butterflies have the typical four-stage insect life cycle. Winged adults lay eggs on the food plant on which their larvae, known as caterpillars, will feed. The pupa or chrysalis, unlike that of moths, is not wrapped in a cocoon. Many butterflies are sexually dimorphic. Most butterflies have the ZW sex-determination system where females are the heterogametic sex (ZW) and males homogametic (ZZ).
What is the biggest butterfly what is the butterfly name? The largest butterfly in the world is the Queen Alexandra's Bird wing, it has a wing span of up to 1 foot or 30 cm. It is a native of Papua New Guinea. 2 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Arachnid Advice: Keeping a Tarantula as a Pet Exotic pets are becoming more and more popular these days. People who study butterflies and moths are called lepidopterists. The study of butterflies alone is sometimes known as 'butterflying', and those who study butterflies alone ar … e sometimes known as 'butterflyers'. 3 people found this useful.