A subduction zone is formed at a convergent plate boundary when one or both of the tectonic plates is composed of oceanic crust. The denser plate, made of oceanic crust, is subducted underneath the less dense plate, which can be either continental or oceanic crust. As a result of pressure, friction, and plate material melting in the mantle, earthquakes and volcanoes are common near convergent boundaries. When two plates move towards one another, they form either a subduction zone or a continental collision. This depends on the nature of the plates involved.
In a subduction zone, the subducting plate, which is normally a plate with oceanic crust, moves beneath the other plate, which can be made of either oceanic or continental crust. During collisions between two continental plates, large mountain ranges, such as the Himalayas are formed. Oceanic-continental. As a result of pressure, friction, and plate material melting in the mantle, earthquakes and volcanoes are common near convergent boundaries. When two plates move towards one another, they form either a subduction zone or a continental collision. This depends on the nature of the plates involved.
In Geology. A convergent boundary with no subduction is a continental-continental boundary. Because oceanic crust is denser than continental crust, it is always the subducting plate in a … oceanic-continental boundary. In an oceanic-oceanic boundary, one of the plates will subduct, depending on several factors.
In plate tectonics, a convergent boundary, also known as a destructive plate boundary (because of subduction), is an actively deforming region where two (or more) tectonic plates or fragments of the lithosphere move toward one another and collide. As a result of pressure, friction, and plate material melting in the mantle, earthquakes and volcanoes are common near convergent boundaries. When two plates move towards one another, they form either a subduction zone or a continental collision. This depends on the nature of the plates involved.
In geology, subduction is the process that takes place at convergent boundaries by which one tectonic plate moves under another tectonic plate and sinks into the mantle as the plates converge. Regions where this process occurs are known as subduction zones. Rates of subduction are typically centimetres per year, with the average rate of convergence being approximately two to eight centimetres per year. That is, the subducted lithosphere is always oceanic while the over-riding lithosphere may or may not be oceanic. Subduction zones are sites of high rates of volcanism, earthquakes, and mountain building.
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. A subduction zone is a convergent boundary where two tectonic plates collide. Plates are large, dense masses in the crust of the Earth, the lithosphere, that float on top of liquefied rock in the asthenosphere. They are constantly shifting and moving, so when they subduct, one pushes beneath the other. When an oceanic plate encounters a continental plate, the oceanic plate plunges beneath the other plate. Subduction zones are at high risk for earthquakes. Ocean trenches are most often located parallel to volcanic islands, at the boundary of a subduction zone.
The two plates are said to converge. One plate may be more dense than the other, and with the two plates pushing against each other, the plate that is more dense will slide under the other plate. The plate sliding under is said to subduct the other plate, and this creates what is called a subduction zone. Not all convergent plate boundaries have subduction zones, but all subduction zones are formed at convergent plate boundaries. 