Answer by Aquanaut. Confidence votes 46. The hull is the outer shell of a ship. It generally included the frames (ribs) that form the ship's shape, and the outer planking (wood) or plating (iron, steel, fiberglass) that covers the frames and makes the vessel watertight and strong. 
1 Hull Transom-The surface that forms the stern (back) of the vessel. 2  Hull Chine-A sharp (or sharper) angle on the hull, this is more pronounced in planing hulls, power boats, where a hard chine is a sharp angle and a soft chine a smoother angle. 3  A barge has a hard chine as it has vertical sides. You can think of this hull as a hybrid of the flat and round bottom hulls. This is generally associated with a semi-Displacement vessel that can, at low speeds push though the water relatively efficiently like a round bottom hull but it can also plain to a certain extent, but not at speeds of a flat bottom hull.
Half-hull of the 46-gun ship of the line Tigre, build from 1724 in Toulon after plans by Blaise Coulomb. A hull is the watertight body of a ship or boat. Above the hull is the superstructure and/or deckhouse, where present. The line where the hull meets the water surface is called the waterline. The structure of the hull varies depending on the vessel type. 
A multihull is a ship, vessel, craft or boat with more than one hull. Multihull ships (vessels, craft, boats) include multiple types, sizes and applications. Hulls range from two to five, of uniform or diverse types and arrangements. Catamarans are the most common type, with two symmetric hulls. An outrigger is a small side hull attached to the main load-carrying hull by two or more struts. Proas have one hull and one outrigger. Engines are commonly placed on the main hull. A ship with one hull of conventional shape and two small side hulls (outriggers) is called an outrigger ship.
Copyright registration must be made separately. Design protection under the Vessel Hull Design Protection Act is not available, and registration may not be made, for designs that have received patent protection under title 35 of the United States Code. When a design protected under the Vessel Hull Design Protection Act is publicly exhibited, publicly distributed, or offered for sale or sold to the public, a design notice should appear on the vessel in the manner described in section 212.4 of the interim regulations.
Protection is afforded only to vessel hull designs embodied in actual vessel hulls that are publicly exhibited, publicly distributed, or offered for sale or sold to the public on or after October 28, 1998. The Vessel Hull Design Protection Act, Title 17, Chapter 13 of the United States Code, was signed into law on October 28, 1998, providing for protection for original designs of vessel hulls.
Protection is afforded only to vessel designs embodied in actual vessel hulls that are publicly exhibited, publicly distributed, or offered for sale or sold to the public on or after October 28, 1998. When a design protected under the Vessel Hull Design Protection Act is publicly exhibited, publicly distributed, or offered for sale or sold to the public, a design notice should appear on the vessel in the manner described in section 212.4 of the interim regulations.
The Hull Identification Number (HIN) is a 12 or 14 character serial number that uniquely identifies a boat. The HIN is analogous to a VIN on a car. All boats manufactured or imported on or after November 1, 1972, must bear a HIN, and this HIN must be identified during the boat registration process. On vessels without transoms, or impractical to use transoms, the HIN is usually affixed to the starboard (right) outboard side of hull, aft, within one foot of the stern and within two inches of the top of the hull side, gunwale or hull/deck joint, whichever is lowest.
The term trimaran is often used for any triple-hull ships or boats. More precisely the term trimaran is used for a ship or boat with three identical hulls of traditional shape. The other triple-hull ships are outrigger and tricore. An outrigger is a small side hull attached to the main load-carrying hull by two or more struts. Proas have one hull and one outrigger. Engines are commonly placed on the main hull. A ship with one hull of conventional shape and two small side hulls (outriggers) is called an outrigger ship.