Oftentimes for a barbarian, wrist and hand protection consisted of a leather wrist cuff or fur bracer. In these Barbarian Bracers, that classic style is recreated, making a pair of bracers that are as protective as they are stylish. These leather arm bracers offer an awesome fantasy design that are sure to be a highlight of any outfit. The shape of the bracer is similar to dragon scales. Perfect for light re-enactments, larping, theater, ren fairs, and costumes.
The Bracer Guild (遊撃士協会, Yugekishi Kyoukai) is an investigative and combat specialist group that work to protect civilians and maintain the stability of their respective regions. Jobs go from the mundane grunt work like monster extermination and finding lost items to stopping crime and escorting people and goods. Story Edit. The Bracer Guild was founded 50 years before the Kiseki series timeline during the Orbal Revolution, where the members there were extremely beneficial to many types of crimes as they were basically the law enforcers then and now.
Ketoh armguard, leather embellished with silver and turquoise, with bow. A bracer (or arm-guard) is a strap or sheath, commonly made of leather, stone, or plastic that covers the inside of an archer's arm to protect it while shooting. Bracers protect the inside of the archer's forearm against injury by the string of the bow or the fletching of the arrow. They normally cover part of the forearm only, but chest-guards are sometimes worn, usually by female archers, and other areas have at times been protected. With some combinations of non-baggy clothing and bows with a larger distance between the bow and the string, the archer may not need to wear any bracer.
Definition of BRACER. : an arm or wrist protector especially for use by an archer. ADVERTISEMENT
Our Warlord leather arm bracers feature four steel rings that are bound to the bracer by leather straps. These arm bracers are crafted from 7/8 ounce leather and have strap and buckle closure for an adjustable fit. These leather arm bracers offer an awesome fantasy design that are sure to be a highlight of any outfit. The shape of the bracer is similar to dragon scales. Perfect for light re-enactments, larping, theater, ren fairs, and costumes.
The Bracer is an item purchasable at the Main Shop, under Common. One Bracer grants a total of 114 health, 0.18 health regeneration, 0.42 armor, 3 attack speed, 39 mana, 0.12 mana regeneration and 6 (9 to strength heroes) damage.
bracer. Similar to a gauntlet, the bracer is a form of forearm armor used primarily by swordsmen, designed to catch blows with their off hand. 20 Words related to bracer. 1  gauntlet. 2  hipper-dipper. 3  alcoholic. 4  alcoholics. 5  booze. 6  brace. 7  brace yourself. 8  bracing. 9  brase. 10  bunting. 11  drunks. 12  early tail. 13  ie. 14  level up. 15  my life aint complete if i aint got no buzz. 16  one hit. 17  on the rocks. 18  pop. 19  safety buzz. 20  steady the nerves.
1. bracer-a protective covering for the wrist or arm that is used in archery and fencing and other sports. armguard. protective cover, protective covering, protection-a covering that is intend to protect from damage or injury; they had no protection from the fallout; wax provided protection for the floors. 
+ 3 Intelligence. + 3 Damage. The bracer is a common choice to toughen up defenses and increase longevity.