Peritonitis is an inflammation of the peritoneum, the tissue that lines the inner wall of the abdomen and covers and supports most of your abdominal organs. Peritonitis is usually caused by infection from bacteria or fungi. It's linked to a higher risk of peritonitis due to accidental contamination of the peritoneum by way of the catheter. Common causes of secondary peritonitis include: 1  A ruptured appendix, diverticulum, or stomach ulcer. 2  Digestive diseases such as Crohn's disease and diverticulitis. 3  Pancreatitis.
The most common risk factors for primary spontaneous peritonitis include: Liver disease with cirrhosis. Such disease often causes a buildup of abdominal fluid (ascites) that can become infected. Kidney failure getting peritoneal dialysis. It's linked to a higher risk of peritonitis due to accidental contamination of the peritoneum by way of the catheter. Common causes of secondary peritonitis include: 1  A ruptured appendix, diverticulum, or stomach ulcer. 2  Digestive diseases such as Crohn's disease and diverticulitis. 3  Pancreatitis.
Background. Peritonitis is defined as an inflammation of the serosal membrane that lines the abdominal cavity and the organs contained therein. The peritoneum, which is an otherwise sterile environment, reacts to various pathologic stimuli with a fairly uniform inflammatory response. Intra-abdominal sepsis from a perforated viscus (ie, secondary peritonitis or suppurative peritonitis) results from direct spillage of luminal contents into the peritoneum (eg, perforated peptic ulcer, diverticulitis, appendicitis, iatrogenic perforation).
Common causes of ruptures that lead to peritonitis include: 1  Medical procedures, such as peritoneal dialysis. 2  A ruptured appendix, stomach ulcer or perforated colon. 3  Pancreatitis. 4  Diverticulitis. 5  Trauma. Infection of the peritoneum can happen for a variety of reasons. In most cases, the cause is a rupture (perforation) within the abdominal wall. Though it’s rare, the condition can develop without an abdominal rupture.
Usually, peritonitis occurs when an infection develops in the peritoneum from a perforation (per-fo-RAY-shun), or hole, in the stomach, intestines, appendix, or one of the other organs covered by the lining. The perforation can come from a knife or gunshot wound or from a cut during surgery. Symptoms. The symptoms of peritonitis range from mild to severe pain in the stomach area. Peritonitis often causes a muscle spasm in the abdominal wall, making the abdomen * feel hard and immobile, as if it were a wooden board. A person with peritonitis usually has a fever and may feel bloated.
Inflammation of the peritoneum is called peritonitis. The inflammation is caused by a fungal or bacterial infection, usually due to an injury to your abdomen, an underlying medical condition, or a treatment device, such as a dialysis catheter or feeding tube. The following conditions can cause peritonitis: 1  an abdominal wound or injury. 2  a ruptured appendix. 3  a stomach ulcer. 4  a perforated colon. 5  diverticulitis (when pouches form on the wall of your colon and become inflamed). 6  pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas). 7  cirrhosis of the liver or other liver disease.
Peritonitis that develops without an abdominal rupture (spontaneous peritonitis) is usually a complication of liver disease, such as cirrhosis. Advanced cirrhosis causes a large amount of fluid buildup in your abdominal cavity (ascites). That fluid buildup is susceptible to bacterial infection. 1  Symptoms. Infection of the peritoneum can happen for a variety of reasons. In most cases, the cause is a rupture (perforation) within the abdominal wall. Though it’s rare, the condition can develop without an abdominal rupture.
* inflammation (in-fla-MAY-shun) is the body's response to infection or irritation. * bacteria (bak-TEER-ee-a) are round, spiral, or rod-shaped single-celled microorganisms without a distinct nucleus that commonly multiply by cell division. Some types may cause disease in humans, animals, or plants. * liver is a large organ located in the upper abdomen (AB-do-man) that has many functions, including storage and filtration of blood, secretion of bile, and participation in various metabolic (met-a-BOLL-ik) processes. Symptoms. The symptoms of peritonitis range from mild to severe pain in the stomach area. Peritonitis often causes a muscle spasm in the abdominal wall, making the abdomen * feel hard and immobile, as if it were a wooden board. A person with peritonitis usually has a fever and may feel bloated.
The two main types of peritonitis are primary spontaneous peritonitis, an infection that develops in the peritoneum; and secondary peritonitis, which usually develops when an injury or infection in the abdominal cavity allows infectious organisms into the peritoneum. Both types of peritonitis are life-threatening. It's linked to a higher risk of peritonitis due to accidental contamination of the peritoneum by way of the catheter. Common causes of secondary peritonitis include: 1  A ruptured appendix, diverticulum, or stomach ulcer. 2  Digestive diseases such as Crohn's disease and diverticulitis. 3  Pancreatitis.