Renminbi is sometimes accepted in Hong Kong and Macau, and are easily exchanged in the two territories, with banks in Hong Kong allowing people to maintain accounts in RMB. The currency is issued by the People's Bank of China, the monetary authority of China. In Chinese texts the currency may also be indicated with the Chinese character for the yuan, 圆 (or 元 in informal Chinese). The renminbi is legal tender in mainland China, but not in Hong Kong or Macau.
People get regularly confused about what to call Chinese money. In English you can refer to the Chinese dollar. In Chinese it has 3 common names and 2 symbols in use: Renminbi 人民币 means People's Currency and is abbreviated RMB (Renminbi). Yuan 元 means Dollar and is abbreviated CNY (Chinese Yuan). You will commonly hear people say kuai, pronounced kwai, which is a more local word for Yuan and still means dollar. 
Both names are perfectly good, but in slightly different ways. Renminbi is the official name of the currency introduced by the Communist People's Republic of China at the time of its foundation in 1949. It means the people's currency. Yuan is the name of a unit of the renminbi currency. Something may cost one yuan or 10 yuan. It would not be correct to say that it cost 10 renminbi. An analogy can be drawn with pound sterling (the official name of the British currency) and pound - a denomination of the pound sterling. 
The Chinese currency is called Renminbi (People's money), often abbreviated as RMB. Issued by the People's Bank of China, it is the sole legal tender for both the Chinese nationals and foreign tourists. The unit of Renminbi is yuan and the smaller, jiao and fen. The conversion among the three is: 1 yuan = 10 jiao =100 fen. Chinese people normally refer to Yuan as Kuai, Jiao as Mao.
Early Currency in China. With a history of over 3000 years, Chinese currency existed in both Ancient and Imperial China. In 1914, the Silver Dollar was established as the official currency of the Republic of China, with copper, fen, and nickel coins being added in the 1930s.
The official currency in China is the Renminbi (RMB or CNY) or in Chinese Ren-min-bi. The basic unit is the yuan (also known as kuai), which equals 10 jiao (or mao), which is then divided into 10 fen. Paper currency comes in 1.2,5,10,50 and 100 yuan notes. Paper jiao come in denominations of 1, 2, and 5. 
Chinese Currency – Renminbi (RMB). Chinese yuan, also known as Renminbi, is used throughout in mainland China, while in Hong Kong and Macau, Hong Kong dollar and pataca are respectively used. The basic unit of Renminbi is Yuan and the sign of Yuan is ￥. In some parts of China, yuan is called kuai and jiao is referred as mao. Chinese money is issued by the People's Bank of China in denominations of one, two, five, ten, twenty, fifty, and one hundred yuan. The jiao and fen coins are both issued in ones, twos, and fives.
The ISO code for renminbi (which may also be used for the yuan) is CNY (an abbreviation for Chinese yuan), or also CNH when traded in Hong Kong. The currency is often abbreviated RMB, or indicated by the yuan sign ¥ . In Chinese texts the currency may also be indicated with the Chinese character for the yuan, 圆 (or 元 in informal Chinese). The renminbi is legal tender in mainland China, but not in Hong Kong or Macau.
The yuan (/juːˈɑːn/ or /ˈjuːən/ ; sign : ¥ ; Chinese: 元; pinyin: yuan; [yuán]. ) ɥɛ̌n is the base unit of a number of former and-present Day chinese, currencies and usually refers to the primary unit of account of the, renminbi the currency of The'people S republic Of. china When used in English in the context of the modern foreign exchange market, the Chinese yuan (CNY) refers to the renminbi (RMB) which is the official currency used in mainland China.