ILLUSTRATIONS. 1) In the following Wittig reaction, the cyclohexanone is converted to methylidenecyclohexane by treating with (methylene)triphenylphosphorane, which in turn is generated in situ by treating the triphenylphosphine with methylbromide in presence of a base.he mechanism of Wittig reaction is not fully established. However a simplified picture is given below. The initial step is the nucleophilic addition of negatively charged carbon of ylide onto the carbonyl carbon to give a betaine, which can cyclize to give an oxaphosphetane as an intermediate.
The Wittig reaction or Wittig olefination is a chemical reaction of an aldehyde or ketone with a triphenyl phosphonium ylide (often called a Wittig reagent) to give an alkene and triphenylphosphine oxide. The steric bulk of the ylide 1 influences the stereochemical outcome of nucleophilic addition to give a predominance of the betaine 3 (c.f. Buergi–Bürgi dunitz). Angle note that for betaine 3 Both r 1 And r 2 as well PPh3+ pph3 And− o are positioned anti to one. another
The Wittig Reaction allows the preparation of an alkene by the reaction of an aldehyde or ketone with the ylide generated from a phosphonium salt. The geometry of the resulting alkene depends on the reactivity of the ylide. If R is Ph, then the ylide is stabilized and is not as reactive as when R = alkyl. Stabilized ylides give (E)-alkenes whereas non-stabilized ylides lead to (Z)-alkenes (see Wittig-Horner Reaction).
Step 1: The nucleophilic C of the ylid Wittig reagent adds to the electrophilic C in the polar carbonyl group, electrons from the C=O &#960 bond are used to form a &#963 bond to the +ve P atom. This creates a cyclic intermeiate called an oxaphosphetane.
The ylide is used in the Wittig reaction. The ylide then acts as a nucleophile and adds to the carbonyl carbon. The resulting alkoxide oxygen (-OR) adds to the phosphorus in an intramolecular closure reaction for form a four-membered ring, an oxaphosphetane.hosphorus is a good nucleophile. In this reaction, the nucleophile is triphenylphosphine [(C 6 H 5) 3 P or Ph 3 P], which adds to the C of the RX forming phosphonium ion. In the second step, a base, such as sodium hydroxide (NaOH) or butyl lithium (BuLi), is used to deprotonate and forms the ylide (Wittig reagent).
Addition of the ylide to the carbonyl is postulated to lead first to the zwitterionic intermediate betaine, which would then close to form a four-membered cyclic intermediate, an oxaphosphetane.f R is Ph, then the ylide is stabilized and is not as reactive as when R = alkyl. Stabilized ylides give (E)-alkenes whereas non-stabilized ylides lead to (Z)-alkenes (see Wittig-Horner Reaction).
WITTIG REACTION. The reaction of an aldehyde or ketone with a phosphonium ylide to an alkene and a phosphine oxide is known as Wittig reaction or Wittig Olefination reaction. This reaction was discovered in 1954 by Georg Wittig, for which he was awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1979.he mechanism of Wittig reaction is not fully established. However a simplified picture is given below. The initial step is the nucleophilic addition of negatively charged carbon of ylide onto the carbonyl carbon to give a betaine, which can cyclize to give an oxaphosphetane as an intermediate.
The reaction of an aldehyde or ketone with a phosphonium ylide to an alkene and a phosphine oxide is known as Wittig reaction or Wittig Olefination reaction.he mechanism of Wittig reaction is not fully established. However a simplified picture is given below. The initial step is the nucleophilic addition of negatively charged carbon of ylide onto the carbonyl carbon to give a betaine, which can cyclize to give an oxaphosphetane as an intermediate.
The Wittig reaction was discovered in 1954 by Georg Wittig, for which he was awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1979.he steric bulk of the ylide 1 influences the stereochemical outcome of nucleophilic addition to give a predominance of the betaine 3 (c.f. Buergi–Bürgi dunitz). Angle note that for betaine 3 Both r 1 And r 2 as well PPh3+ pph3 And− o are positioned anti to one. another