Cluster Headache. Cluster headaches are characterized by excruciating, piercing pain on one side of the head and eye; they occur more frequently in men than women. PubMed Health Glossary. (Source: NIH-National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke). Part of: Primary Headaches.
About Cluster Headaches. Cluster headache-the most severe form of primary headache-involves sudden, extremely painful headaches that occur in clusters, usually at the same time of the day and night for several weeks. Cluster headaches are characterized by excruciating, piercing pain on one side of the head and eye; they occur more frequently in men than women. PubMed Health Glossary. (Source: NIH-National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke). Part of: Primary
Cluster headache attacks occur cyclically, hence the name. A bout of regular attacks-cluster periods-can last from a few days, weeks, to even months. This is followed by remission periods during which no headaches are felt. Cluster headaches are not very common-they are said to affect about 1 in every 1,000 people. They affect men more often than women; about 80% of sufferers are men, most of them smokers. Fortunately, they generally have no long-term effects on the sufferer's physical health.
Cluster headache is pain that occurs along one side of the head. It's frequently described as pain that occurs around, behind, or above the eye and along the temple in cyclic patterns or clusters. The pain of a cluster headache is very severe. Many patients describe a “drilling” type of sensation. Cluster Headache Symptoms. A headache is a pain in the head with the pain being above the eyes or the ears, behind the head (occipital), or in the back of the upper neck. Headache, like chest pain or back ache, has many causes.
Cluster headache (CH) is a neurological disorder characterized by recurrent, severe headaches on one side of the head, typically around the eye. Individuals typically experience repeated attacks of excruciatingly severe unilateral headache pain. Cluster headache attacks often occur periodically; spontaneous remissions may interrupt active periods of pain, though about 10–15% of chronic CH never remit.
Cluster headache is a type of severe, recurring pain that is located on one side of the head. It received its name from the clustering, or pattern, of frequent headaches that usually occur. There are two main types of cluster headaches: 1  Episodic cluster headaches—These occur one or more times daily for 4-8 weeks. 
A. A. A. The term cluster headache refers to a type of headache that recurs over a period of time. People who have cluster headaches experience an episode one to three times per day during a period of time (the cluster period), which may last from two weeks to three months. The cause of cluster headaches is unknown. However, the headaches occur when a nerve pathway in the base of the brain (the trigeminal-autonomic reflex pathway) is activated. The trigeminal nerve is the main nerve of the face responsible for sensations (such as heat or pain.).
Cluster headaches (also used in singular: headache), also nicknamed suicide headaches, occur several times a day, they come on unexpectedly, do not last long, and are generally very painful. The pain is usually intense, and sometimes only on one side of the head. Frequently, the sufferer also feels pain around the eye. Cluster headaches are not very common-they are said to affect about 1 in every 1,000 people. They affect men more often than women; about 80% of sufferers are men, most of them smokers. Fortunately, they generally have no long-term effects on the sufferer's physical health.
Cluster headache is far less common than migraine headache or tension headache. Cluster headaches begin far more dramatically, however, and remain quite unique in their course over time. As the name suggests, the cluster headache exhibits a clustering of painful attacks over a period of many weeks. The pain of a cluster headache peaks in about 5 minutes and may last for an hour.