The stem may grow erect as a single plant or form colonies. Leaves to 1 m across, palmately divided into nonfilamentose segments, midrib absent, petiole armed with spines. Flowers perfect, sepals 1-2 mm long, petals 3-5 mm long; stamens 6, stigma and style solitary. Leaves to 1 m across, palmately divided into nonfilamentose segments, midrib absent, petiole armed with spines. Flowers perfect, sepals 1-2 mm long, petals 3-5 mm long; stamens 6, stigma and style solitary. Fruit a bluish to black drupe, ellipsoidal or subgloblose, 15-20 mm in diameter. Often the dominant ground cover in pine forests in the range of saw palmetto
Description: Serenoa repens is the most common palm in the U.S. (Bennett and Hicklin 1998). It grows as a shrub that attains a height of 0.6 2.1 m (2 7 feet), or as a small tree that grows to 6 7.5 m (20 25 feet). Shrubs grow in a creeping horizontal form with many branches on their stems. It is a common understory shrub in coastal strands and in oak-pine communities. In scrub communities, saw palmetto provides habitat for sand skinks, the Florida mouse, and the threatened Florida scrub jay (Austin 1976). Its fruit provides food for black bear and white-tailed deer.
Sabal palm or Cabbage palm : Kingdom: Plantae Phylum : : Magnoliophyta Class: Liliopsida Order: Arecales Family: Arecaceae Genus: Sabal Species: palmetto Thunb. 
In the United States the native range of Sabal Palmetto is the coastal plains of the Gulf states and south Atlantic states from Cape Fear, North Carolina south to Florida, though a disjunct population occurs in Cape Hatteras, North Carolina. It is the state tree of both South Carolina and Florida. Sabal palmetto, also known as cabbage palm, palmetto, cabbage palmetto, palmetto palm, blue palmetto, Carolina palmetto, common palmetto, swamp cabbage and sabal palm, is one of 15 species of palmetto palm (Arecaceae, genus Sabal).
1 Liposterolic extract in capsules: One studied dosage for early stages of BPH is 160 mg, twice a day. 2  The supplement should be a fat soluble saw palmetto extract that contains 85 to 95% fatty acids and sterols. Today, the primary use of saw palmetto is to treat benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), a non-cancerous enlargement of the prostate gland. Researchers aren't sure exactly how saw palmetto works. But it contains plant-based chemicals that may be effective for BPH.
Close-up of a leaf petiole from saw palmetto showing the sharp spines for which this species is named. Photo courtesy of K. Hill, Smithsonian Marine Station. It is a common understory shrub in coastal strands and in oak-pine communities. In scrub communities, saw palmetto provides habitat for sand skinks, the Florida mouse, and the threatened Florida scrub jay (Austin 1976). Its fruit provides food for black bear and white-tailed deer.
Serenoa repens, commonly known as saw palmetto, is the sole species currently classified in the genus Serenoa. It has been known by a number of synonyms, including Sabal serrulatum, under which name it still often appears in alternative medicine. It is a small palm, growing to a maximum height of around 7–10 ft (2–3 m). It is a hardy plant; extremely slow growing, and long lived, with some plants, especially in Florida where it is known as simply the palmetto, possibly being as old as 500–700 years. Saw palmetto is a fan palm, with the leaves that have a bare petiole terminating in a rounded fan of about 20 leaflets.
Similar species: Cabbage palmetto (Sabal palmetto) is a palm tree that can reach 20 m in height. Saw palmetto (Serenoa repens) often has a similar appearance as dwarf palmetto as it has a short or horizontal stem. It grows in the same native range but is less cold hardy. The Dwarf Palmetto (Minor) is generally described as a perennial tree or shrub. This is native to the U.S. (United States) has its most active growth period in the spring and summer.
Saw palmetto (Serenoa repens/Sabal serrulata) is a palm-like plant with berries. The berries were a staple food and medicine for the Native Americans of the southeastern United States. In the early 1900s, men used the berries to treat urinary tract problems, and even to increase sperm production and boost libido. Today, the primary use of saw palmetto is to treat benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), a non-cancerous enlargement of the prostate gland. Researchers aren't sure exactly how saw palmetto works. But it contains plant-based chemicals that may be effective for BPH.
Of significant importance is a drug called Serenoa, marketed as Permixon, which is extracted from partially ripened, dried fruits of saw palmetto. This drug has been successfully used to treat, prostrate swelling, bladder infections and urinary tract infections. It is a common understory shrub in coastal strands and in oak-pine communities. In scrub communities, saw palmetto provides habitat for sand skinks, the Florida mouse, and the threatened Florida scrub jay (Austin 1976). Its fruit provides food for black bear and white-tailed deer.