5. CEO membership on the executive committee. The CEO should be on the executive committee, except where prohib-ited by law. The CEO is the board’s leader in residence and, therefore, the CEO should be a voting member of the executive committee. We wouldn’t do without it.” —CEO, Hospital A “We used to have an executive committee. The other board members resented that an in-group knew more than they did; all decisions appeared to have been cooked at the executive committee before the board got them. The other board members felt like second-class citizens.
A committee (or commission) is a type of small deliberative assembly that is usually intended to remain subordinate to another, larger deliberative assembly. When a larger assembly meets as a committee to discuss or debate, this is called a  committee of the whole . A standing committee is a subunit of a political or deliberative body established in a permanent fashion to aid the parent assembly in accomplishing its duties. A standing committee is usually granted jurisdiction over a particular area of legislation by the parent body.
1 Governance: In organizations considered too large for all the members to participate in decisions affecting the organization as a whole, a committee (such as a board of directors or executive committee) is given the power to make decisions, spend money, or take actions. A standing committee is a subunit of a political or deliberative body established in a permanent fashion to aid the parent assembly in accomplishing its duties. A standing committee is usually granted jurisdiction over a particular area of legislation by the parent body.
...an executive briefcase., ...executive cars. 4 n-sing The executive committee or board of an organization is a committee within that organization which has the authority to make decisions and ensures that these decisions are carried out. the N, N n. He sits on the executive committee that manages Lloyds..., ...the executive of the National Union of Students. 5 n-sing The executive is the part of the government of a country that is concerned with carrying out decisions or orders, as opposed to the part that makes laws or the part that deals with criminals.
Organizational cabinet of executives accountable for collective executive decisions and assignments. Titled roles are typically a chairperson, vice-chairperson, secretary, and treasurer. Accountable to the board of directors. 
Hospital practice A hospital committee that administers the medical staff–MS, acting as an interface between the MS and the hospital's governing body–eg, board of trustees, and the general public; the EC consists of MS officers and is chaired by the chief of the medical staff. See Hospital committee, House staff. 1 Executive Committee of the National Economic Council. 2  Executive Committee of the Soviet of Working People's Deputies. 3  Executive Committee of the Soviets of Estlandia. 4  Executive Committee on Economic and Social Affairs.
Definition. Group of directors appointed to act on behalf of, and within the powers granted to them by, the board of directors. Typically it consists of a chairperson, vice-chairperson, secretary, and treasurer.
An executive committee, as a type of subcommittee, has well-defined executive powers (usually spelled out in a charter or in by-laws) and meets frequently to manage the affairs and further the purposes of an organization or entity. A standing committee is a subunit of a political or deliberative body established in a permanent fashion to aid the parent assembly in accomplishing its duties. A standing committee is usually granted jurisdiction over a particular area of legislation by the parent body.