Gold and Silver. Gold and silver are commonly found in areas where igneous and metamorphic activity has occurred and are generally associated with silicic types of intrusives and Precambrian metamorphic rocks. 
Hard rock miners look for quartz veins and specific types of rocks that often contain gold such as Dolomite, Schist, Gneiss, Quartz, and Black Shale. Specific minerals and certain basic elements are also a clue as to where to find gold. Placer gold is the gold that most weekend prospectors look for because it has been concentrated over a long period of time and is fairly easy to find if you are in a gold bearing area. Gold that is found in solid rock within the earth is called load gold. It is the original gold deposit that was created when the earth was forming. These load deposits of gold and other precious metals are what hard rock miners look for
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Gold is found mostly in volcanic rocks, but also be hosted in sedimentary or metamorphic rocks. It occurs mostly in quartz veins that cut the host rock, and the host rock is usually altered to kaolinite (a type of clay), sericite (a white mica), and quartz. quartz.....when looking for gold find a creek or small river and hike up it until you find a sandbar where the river turns....go to the sandbar and pan there.....without creeks and rivers there are no basic rules on what kind or rock gold is often found in.....just it is often found with quartz.
To begin with, gold can occur in a wide variety of forms. In massive quartz reefs, gold occurs as disseminated, irregular grains, scales, plates and veinlets with microscopic dimensions, and as larger compact, reticulated, spongy or hackly masses or slugs. Veins and reefs of gold-bearing quartz can occur in many types of rock, for example around granites, in volcanic rocks or in regions of black slate, but in most cases these host rocks are not the immediate source of the gold. Gold deposits have formed at many different times during Earth’s history.
Pyrite is usually found associated with other sulfides or oxides in quartz veins, sedimentary rock, and metamorphic rock, as well as in coal beds and as a replacement mineral in fossils. Despite being nicknamed fool's gold, pyrite is sometimes found in association with small quantities of gold. Gold and arsenic occur as a coupled substitution in the pyrite structure. In the Carlin–type gold deposits, arsenian pyrite contains up to 0.37 wt% gold.
Fool’s gold consists of even heavier stuff, copper iron sulfides. These are chalco-pyrites, this pyrite may look yellow gold to an oxidized rainbow metallic in color. Other minerals often found with this copper-iron-sulphide include a carbonate called malachite, a beautiful semi precious green stone. Since pyrites and gold are often from related deposits, pyrites form some of the best gold tracers in the creek bed. Take a look at this short video post, it shows you more about gold and its tracers, other rocks and minerals associated with gold, especially dark red-black-blue stained tertiary quartzite.
Quartz. Gold is most often found in quartz rock. When quartz is found in gold bearings areas, it is possible that gold will be found as well. Quartz may be found as small stones in river beds or in large seams in hillsides. The white color of quartz makes it easy to spot in many environments. 
Other important metal-bearing minerals can also be found in the quartz reefs with the gold. The presence or absence of these minerals can be used to help classify the type of gold field. The most common and widespread are pyrite and arsenopyrite, two minerals containing iron and sulphur. Veins and reefs of gold-bearing quartz can occur in many types of rock, for example around granites, in volcanic rocks or in regions of black slate, but in most cases these host rocks are not the immediate source of the gold. Gold deposits have formed at many different times during Earth’s history.