Before one can fully grasp the various uses of palm fruit oil shortening they need to be knowledgeable regarding what it actually is. Many see this palm oil product as a healthy substitute found in foods that may not always be considered healthy, for example a chocolate candy snack. You also need to understand how the procedure works as well. The palm shortening is actually gathered from fresh palm fruit. This is natural palm fruit oil in its purest form. The difference between this and other products is the fact that once this organic palm oil for the shortening has been collected there is no need for any procedures, such as refinement. You can use the organic palm oil shortening imminently
Palm shortening is palm oil that has some of its unsaturated fats removed, giving it a very firm texture, and high melting point. The melting point of our Palm Shortening is 97 degrees F., making it very shelf stable. It is NOT hydrogenised, and contains NO trans fats! It is great for deep-fat frying and baking, and is not prone to rancidity. Since it has been separated from some of the unsaturated portion of the oil, it is colorless and odorless, and will not affect the taste of foods like Virgin Palm Oil does.
Palm Shortening. All purpose trans-fat free shortening, white in color, neutral in flavor, made from the stearin and olein fractions of the palmfruit oil. 
Palm shortening is derived from palm oil (read about Virgin Palm Oil here). In its natural state, palm oil is a mixture of saturated and unsaturated fatty acids, with most of the unsaturated fat being monounsaturated fat. It is NOT hydrogenised, and contains NO trans fats! It is great for deep-fat frying and baking, and is not prone to rancidity. Since it has been separated from some of the unsaturated portion of the oil, it is colorless and odorless, and will not affect the taste of foods like Virgin Palm Oil does.
The mouth feel of the palm shortening is like velvet on your tongue. There is absolutely no “coating effect” (like when you eat an unnamed national brand chocolate sandwich with white, sugar laden hydrogenized fat filling and it leaves you mouth feeling scummy after). Palm shortening is palm oil that has some of its unsaturated fats removed, giving it a very firm texture, and high melting point. The melting point of our Organic Palm Shortening is 97 degrees F., making it very shelf stable.
Palm shortening is extracted from the palm fruit, like olive or avocado oil, and does not need to be refined, only filtered. Palm shortening is made by combining the palm olein and palm stearine into a whipped shortening that behaves, and has a similar consistency, to butter or margarine, making it a popular choice in vegan desserts.
Palm shortening is derived from palm oil. In its natural state, palm oil is a mixture of saturated and unsaturated fatty acids, with most of the unsaturated fat being monounsaturated fat. Palm shortening is palm oil that has some of its unsaturated fats removed, giving it a very firm texture, and high melting point. The melting point of our Organic Palm Shortening is 97 degrees F., making it very shelf stable. It is NOT hydrogenated, and contains NO trans fats!
Palm shortening is derived from palm oil (read about Virgin Palm Oil here). In its natural state, palm oil is a mixture of saturated and unsaturated fatty acids, with most of the unsaturated fat being monounsaturated fat. Palm shortening is palm oil that has some of its unsaturated fats removed, giving it a very firm texture, and high melting point.
NEW! • Organic Vegan Superfood Shortening. Nutiva's shortening is an organic blend of coconut and palm oils. It is the best choice for baked goods such as pie crusts, biscuits and cookies that call for a neutral-flavored, dairy-free shortening. While the palm oil is ideal for creating flaky baked goods, the coconut oil provides the added health benefits of lauric acid. This shortening is vegan and contains no dairy, soy or canola. It is organic, non-GMO and Fair Trade certified. The golden color reveals the presence of antioxidant vitamins A & E naturally found in red palm oil. All Nutiva red palm oil is sourced from small, organic family farms in partnership with Natural Habitats™