Save. noun phrase noun. plural noun phrases. noun phrase. noun. plural noun phrases. Learner's definition of NOUN PHRASE. [count]. : a group of words that acts like a noun in a sentence. In the sentence “I found the owner of the dog,” “the owner of the dog” is a noun phrase. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples
noun. noun \ˈnau̇n\. : a word or phrase that is the name of something (as a person, place, or thing) and that is used in a sentence especially as subject or object of a verb or as object of a preposition. Spanish Central: Spanish translation of noun. Tweet. : a word that is the name of something (such as a person, animal, place, thing, quality, idea, or action) and is typically used in a sentence as subject or object of a verb or as object of a preposition.
noun phrase. Noun. (plural noun phrases). ( 1 grammar) A phrase that can serve as the subject or the object of a verb; it is usually headed by a noun, (including pronouns), with any associated dependents such as determiners or modifiers. 2  banana (a noun). 3  big bananas (an adjective 'big', and a plural noun)
noun phrase. n. 1. (Grammar) grammar a constituent of a sentence that consists of a noun and any modifiers it may have a noun clause, or a word, such as a pronoun, that takes the place of a noun. Abbreviation: NP
1 The subjects were given a pre-test on combining two sentences into one sentence containing a relative clause where either the subject, object, or object of a preposition was the relativized noun phrase. Example sentences. 1 
Noun phrases: noun phrases and verbs …. Noun phrases: two noun phrases togetherWe can put two noun phrases (np) together to refer to the same person or thing. This is called apposition: …. Verb phrasesA verb phrase consists of a main verb alone, or a main verb plus any modal and/or auxiliary verbs. phrase noun [C] (GRAMMAR). › language a ​group of words that is ​part of, ​rather than the ​whole of, a ​sentence. More examples. 1  an adverbial phrase. 2  an adjectival phrase. 3  The phrase a not ​ unfamiliar ​ situation  is an ​ example of a ​ double ​ negative. 4  The phrase a hard ​ frost  is a ​ collocation.
Full Definition of NOUN PHRASE. : a phrase formed by a noun and all its modifiers and determiners; broadly: any syntactic element (as a clause, clitic, pronoun, or zero element) with a noun's function (as the subject of a verb or the object of a verb or preposition) —abbreviation NP. See noun phrase defined for English-language learners.
Full Definition of NOUN. : any member of a class of words that typically can be combined with determiners to serve as the subject of a verb, can be interpreted as singular or plural, can be replaced with a pronoun, and refer to an entity, quality, state, action, or concept. Tweet. : a word that is the name of something (such as a person, animal, place, thing, quality, idea, or action) and is typically used in a sentence as subject or object of a verb or as object of a preposition.
Noun. 1. noun phrase-a phrase that can function as the subject or object of a verb. nominal, nominal phrase. phrase-an expression consisting of one or more words forming a grammatical constituent of a sentence. 1. (Grammar) grammar a constituent of a sentence that consists of a noun and any modifiers it may have a noun clause, or a word, such as a pronoun, that takes the place of a noun.