Before disposing of a laptop (or desktop) this is what I do. Generally, I do not sell any of my devices with the hard disk drive installed. I have heard that the military disposes of drives by first degassing (using a strong magnet) and then smashing with a mallet. 
Today we take a look at how to dispose of your old machines in a secure and environmentally responsible manner. With the new Windows operating system around the corner and an abundance of cheap computers on the market, you may find yourself asking what to do with your old PC and components. Get to know your local recycling centers and find out how they dispose of toxic e-waste. A great site is from the Basel Network (mentioned in the videos) that have created a list of rigorously tested recycling centers certified as e-stewards.
One thing I do is destroy all my data with DBAN and put on a fresh version of Linux or Windows and bring it to a thrift store. Other Options. 1  Sell it. 2  If your old computer has some value left you might be able to sell it on ebay or craigslist for a bit of spending money. 3  Repurpose it. Get to know your local recycling centers and find out how they dispose of toxic e-waste. A great site is from the Basel Network (mentioned in the videos) that have created a list of rigorously tested recycling centers certified as e-stewards.
Page 1 of 2 Five ways to destroy your data. The upward climb of cybercrime is proof that your data is in demand-be it from hackers, phishers or malware. While internet-related crime poses the biggest risk, your data is also exposed when it is not only offline, but also outside of your computer. If you want to be absolutely sure that nobody can get at your data, then you must physically destroy the hard drive upon which it is written. More accurately, you want to destroy the platters within the hard drive.
The insecure disposal of old hard disks, USB memory sticks and even CDs could be putting your data, your business and your bank account on the line. The solution is a simple one: destroy your data before you take your old computer to the recycling centre or sell it on eBay. Here are our top five ways to do just that. If you want to be absolutely sure that nobody can get at your data, then you must physically destroy the hard drive upon which it is written. More accurately, you want to destroy the platters within the hard drive.
You could alternatively remove the hard drive from the laptop or PC and physically destroy it, but this means you can’t sell or give away your computer in a working state. It's worth fishing out the original restore discs that came with your laptop and using them to return the PC to the state it came out of the factory. How to dispose of a laptop or PC: Freecycle it. If you’re feeling generous, or you don’t think your old laptop or PC is worth much, you can give away a working computer to someone who would benefit from it. You might know someone, but if not, sign up to your local Freecycle group.
The above procedure is well and good if your computer still works. If your computer is in such a bad shape that it can't even boot, then you'll probably not be able to even wipe it. In such a case, you may want to remove its hard disk and physically destroy it before you dispose of the computer. I leave to your imagination how you can destroy a hard disk, although I should mention that simply scratching the circut board on the surface of the hard disk is not enough to destroy the data. 
1 You don't have to smash it up, you can always donate the old computer to charity. 2  If the computer is reeking of acids and is defective, then dispose it at the city garbage as soon as possible. 3  If you can, record the destruction on a camera, cell phone, or maybe a small laptop if it has a built in camera. 1 You can also recycle the computer. 2  You don't need to use a sledgehammer. 3  You can use other methods of destruction. 4  Make sure you dispose of the hazardous parts appropriately.