Muscular System. The muscular system is composed of more than 600 muscles. These include the involuntary muscles of the heart and the smooth muscles of the internal organs. The skeletal muscles connect to the bones and work with connective tissue at the joints to allow for movement. 
Introduction to Muscular System: Muscular System. Muscular system is the system of Human Body that provides motor power for all movements of body parts. Muscular system is composed of special tissue called muscular tissue. Muscles have the ability to contract actvely to provide the force for movements of body parts. 1 Some joints of human body are weak and they require the support of muscular system to achieve stability. 2  Skeletal muscles are very important for such joints. 3  HEAT PRODUCTION: A large share of body’s energy is used by muscular system. 4  As a result of high metabolic rate, muscles produce great amount of heat in the body.
The muscular system is responsible for the movement of the human body. Attached to the bones of the skeletal system are about 700 named muscles that make up roughly half of a person’s body weight. Each of these muscles is a discrete organ constructed of skeletal muscle tissue, blood vessels, tendons, and nerves. The main function of the muscular system is movement. Muscles are the only tissue in the body that has the ability to contract and therefore move the other parts of the body. Related to the function of movement is the muscular system’s second function: the maintenance of posture and body position.
Three types of muscles. The muscular system can be broken down into three types of muscles: skeletal, smooth and cardiac, according to the NIH. Skeletal muscles are the only voluntary muscle tissue in the human body and control every action that a person consciously performs. Most skeletal muscles are attached to two bones across a joint, so the muscle serves to move parts of those bones closer to each other, according to The Merck Manual. Visceral, or smooth, muscle is found inside organs such as the stomach and intestines, as well as in blood vessels. It is called a smooth muscle because, unlike skeletal muscle, it does not have the banded appearance of skeletal or cardiac muscle.
The muscular system is an organ system consisting of skeletal, smooth and cardiac muscles. It permits movement of the body, maintains posture, and circulates blood throughout the body. The muscular system in vertebrates is controlled through the nervous system, although some muscles (such as the cardiac muscle) can be completely autonomous.
Structure of Skeletal Muscle. A whole skeletal muscle is considered an organ of the muscular system. Each organ or muscle consists of skeletal muscle tissue, connective tissue, nerve tissue, and blood or vascular tissue. Skeletal muscles vary considerably in size, shape, and arrangement of fibers. 