Examples of POLLUTION. 1  industrial practices that have caused pollution of the air and water. 2  The tests showed high levels of pollution in the water. 3  The fish are dying of pollution. Full Definition of POLLUTION. 1. : the action of polluting especially by environmental contamination with man-made waste; also: the condition of being polluted. 2. : pollutant
Use water pollution in a sentence. Show more usage examples... The river used to be the main water source in the area but the water pollution, caused by the old factory dumping waste in the river, caused the water to be unsafe for drinking and even swimming. 9 people found this helpful
water pollution. contamination of water resources by harmful wastes; see also sewerage sewerage,system for the removal and disposal of chiefly liquid wastes and of rainwater, which are collectively called sewage. The average person in the industrialized world produces between 60 and 140 gallons of sewage per day...... 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Water pollution is the contamination of water bodies such as lakes, rivers, oceans, and groundwater caused by human activities, which can be harmful to organisms and plants which live in these water bodies. 
The smokestacks of chemical plants send pollution into the air. age fotostock/SuperStock. Pollution happens when the environment is contaminated, or dirtied, by waste, chemicals, and other harmful substances. There are three main forms of pollution: air, water, and land. pollution... (75 of 1471 words).
Alternative searches for water pollution 1  : Search for Definitions for water pollution. 2  Search for Synonyms for water pollution. 3  Quotes containing the term water pollution. 4  Search for Phrases containing the term water pollution. 
Sources and effects of water pollution. Water pollution can be caused in a number of ways, one of the most polluting being city sewage and industrial waste discharge. Indirect sources of water pollution include contaminants that enter the water supply from soils or groundwater systems and from the atmosphere via rain. Soils and groundwaters contain the residue of human agricultural practices and also improperly disposed of industrial wastes. 
Medical Definition of POLLUTION. 1. : the action of polluting or the condition of being polluted. 2. : pollutant. Full Definition of POLLUTION. 1. : the action of polluting especially by environmental contamination with man-made waste; also: the condition of being polluted. 2.
Common Law. State and federal water pollution statutes provide one avenue of legal recourse for those harmed by water pollution. The common-law doctrines of Nuisance, Trespass, Negligence, Strict Liability, and riparian ownership provide alternative remedies. 