Makemake is a dwarf planet in the outer solar system. It was the fourth body identified as a dwarf planet, and was one of the bodies that caused Pluto to lose its status as a planet. Makemake is one of the largest known objects in the outer solar system, just slightly smaller and dimmer than Pluto. Scientists think it is about two-thirds the size of the more well-known dwarf planet.
This artist’s impression shows the surface of the distant dwarf planet Makemake. This dwarf planet is about two-thirds of the size of Pluto and travels around the Sun in a distant path that lies beyond that of Pluto, but closer to the Sun than Eris, the most massive known dwarf planet in the solar system. The dwarf planet Makemake is about two-thirds the size of Pluto. It travels in a distant orbit that is farther from the Sun than Pluto’s but closer than that of
Whereas Pluto has a tenuous atmosphere surrounding it, its near-twin Eris does not, most likely due to Eris's greater distance from the sun and colder surface temperature. Makemake orbits at an intermediate distance from the sun between Pluto and Eris, raising the question of whether it might possess an atmosphere. Even Mars has areas with a locally denser atmosphere, which in this case arises from sublimation of carbon dioxide ice.. Makemake might very well behave like a comet and grow an atmosphere during the parts of its year when it approaches the sun.
Makemake was expected to have an atmosphere similar to that of Pluto but with a lower surface pressure. However, on 23 April 2011 Makemake passed in front of an 18th-magnitude star and abruptly blocked its light. Makemake (minor-planet designation 136472 Makemake) is a dwarf planet and perhaps the largest Kuiper belt object (KBO) in the classical population, with a diameter that is about 2/3 the size of Pluto.
Makemake is the second furthest dwarf planet to the Sun and is the only one of the outer four dwarf planet to not have any moons. Mass: 3,000,000,000,000 billion kg (0.0005 x Earth). Makemake has no moons: Makemake is the largest of the Kuiper belt objects and the only one without satellites. Although we know its diameter to be about 2/3 that of Pluto, its mass can merely be estimated in the absence of nearby objects.
At most, Makemake's atmosphere is 80 million to 250 million times thinner than Earth's at sea level, the researchers calculate. Still, there might be patches of atmosphere overlying warmer regions on its surface, such as dark patches that absorb more sunlight. Even Mars has areas with a locally denser atmosphere, which in this case arises from sublimation of carbon dioxide ice.. Makemake might very well behave like a comet and grow an atmosphere during the parts of its year when it approaches the sun.
[ Makemake's Missing Atmosphere (Video) ]. Makemake: A plutoid revealed. Makemake is a type of icy dwarf planet known as a plutoid, as are Pluto and the newfound trans-Neptunian worlds Erisand Haumea. Even Mars has areas with a locally denser atmosphere, which in this case arises from sublimation of carbon dioxide ice.. Makemake might very well behave like a comet and grow an atmosphere during the parts of its year when it approaches the sun.
This artist’s impression shows the surface of the distant dwarf planet Makemake. This dwarf planet is about two thirds of the size of Pluto, and travels around the Sun in a distant path that lies beyond that of Pluto, but closer to the Sun than Eris, the most massive known dwarf planet in the Solar System. Even Mars has areas with a locally denser atmosphere, which in this case arises from sublimation of carbon dioxide ice.. Makemake might very well behave like a comet and grow an atmosphere during the parts of its year when it approaches the sun.
Unlike Pluto and Haumea, Makemake has no moon, which makes it difficult to determine the planet's mass and density. Astronomers took advantage of the dwarf planet's passage in front of a star to determine that it lacks a significant atmosphere, a surprise given its similarities to Pluto, which has a thin one. Makemake is one of the largest known objects in the outer solar system, just slightly smaller and dimmer than Pluto. Scientists think it is about two-thirds the size of the more well-known dwarf planet.