You can describe the heart as having two separate systems; the electrical system and the plumbing system. Some electrical irregularities may cause flutter, fibrillation, pauses, brady cardia (slow rate), tachycardia (fast rate) to name some. You could also have an abnormal or imperfect heart (valve, artery, chamber etc.), a blockage due to plaque or hardening of the arteries, a congenital heart defect or something else.
A slow heart rate can be normal and healthy. Or it could be a sign of a problem with the heart's electrical system. For some people, a slow heart rate does not cause any problems. It can be a sign of being very fit. Healthy young adults and athletes often have heart rates of less than 60 beats a minute. In other people, bradycardia is a sign of a problem with the heart's electrical system. 
Answer: Well heart rhythm problems in children, we breakup into two different groups. One is heart rhythms that cause the heart rate to beat too slow and the others are those that cause the heart rate to beat too fast. It's rare to have a heart rate that's too slow. By far the majority of the heart rhythm problems that we deal with in children are those that cause the heart rate to beat too fast. One in particular is called supraventricular tachycardia or SVT. And if your child has SVT they may complain of palpitations, lightheadedness, dizziness or shortness of breath.
A rapid or fast heartbeat is when your heart is beating faster than normal. A normal heart rate is 60 to 100 beats per minute. Tachycardia is considered a heart rate of greater than 100 beats per minute. If you are exercising, or performing any kind of activity, your heart will normally beat faster. This allows your heart to pump blood through out your body, to provide oxygen to the tissues. 1 You may feel your heart pounding in your chest or throat, which may cause pain or mild discomfort. 2  You may also feel your heart fluttering, and it may seem as if it is skipping a beat. 3  If you have anemia, you may be overly tired, or very weak. 4  It may be hard for you to do any kind of your normal activities.
The medical term for a slow heartbeat is bradycardia. The normal heart rate is 60 to 100 beats per minute. A slow heart rate is less than 60 beats per minute. A slow heart rate may begin suddenly (acute) or develop over time (chronic). In some situations, a slow heart rate can occur as a result of chronic medical conditions. There are many causes of a slow heartbeat, and they range from mild to serious. 
1 Tachy-brady syndrome– It is possible for the same person to have a slow heartbeat when the heart is in normal rhythm and periods of fast, irregular heartbeats (supraventricular tachycardias) at other times. 2  Sometimes, medications needed to control the fast heart rate can worsen the already slow heart rate. What counts as an abnormally slow heartbeat for one person may not be the same for another. For example, a young, strong, healthy athlete may have a resting heart rate of 30-40 beats per minute, but may easily increase his heart rate to 180 beats per minute with exercise. This is normal.
An arrhythmia is a disorder of the heart that affects the rate or rhythm at which the heart beats. An arrhythmia occurs when electrical impulses, which direct and regulate heartbeats, don’t function properly. This causes the heart to beat too fast (tachycardia), too slow (bradycardia), too early (premature contraction), or too erratically (fibrillation). Heart arrhythmias are very common and usually harmless. 
Slow Heartbeat. Slow heartbeat (heart rate), called bradycardia, is an arrhythmia, or disorder of the heart’s rhythm. Each day, a normal heart beats about 100,000 times, at a rate any­where from 60 to 100 times a minute. Changes in heart rate caused by activity, diet, medications, and age are normal and common. What counts as an abnormally slow heartbeat for one person may not be the same for another. For example, a young, strong, healthy athlete may have a resting heart rate of 30-40 beats per minute, but may easily increase his heart rate to 180 beats per minute with exercise. This is normal.
When the heart beats too fast, too slow, or with a skipping (irregular) rhythm, a person is said to have an arrhythmia. A change in the heart's rhythm may feel like an extra-strong heartbeat (palpitation) or a fluttering in your chest. Premature ventricular contractions (PVCs) often cause this feeling. Many changes in heart rate or rhythm are minor and do not require medical treatment if you do not have other symptoms or a history of heart disease. Smoking, drinking alcohol or caffeine, or taking other stimulants such as diet pills or cough and cold medicines may cause your heart to beat faster or skip a beat.