The best glow in the dark powders are based upon strontium aluminate. The older weaker glow in the dark powders were made with zinc sulfide. All sulfide based powders have a sulfurous odor and are not pleasant to work with. Green glow in the dark powder is the brightest and offers the longest after glow of all glow in the dark phosphorescent colors. It’s most commonly used in safety applications such as exit signs but is very well suited to any application that requires a bright glow and long after glow. It is perfect for star murals.
Photoluminescent. (Glow-in-the-Dark). Tapes. General Commments-Adhesive Photoluminescent Tapes-These glow-in-the-dark tapes are energized by a long-lived photo-luminescent mineral (strontium oxide aluminate) that is non-toxic & non-radioactive. These photoluminescent tapes are 9 mils thick (9/1000) and charge fully with only 5 minutes exposure to light. 
About. Strontium Aluminate is generally immediately available in most volumes. Aluminates are compounds with a negatively-charged alumina ion and a metallic oxide with various industrial applications such as water treatment and ceramics manufacturing. 
Strontium aluminate (SRA, SrAl, Sr Al 2 O 4) is a solid odorless, nonflammable, pale yellow powder, heavier than water. Strontium aluminate phosphor is fired at about 1250 °C. Subjecting it to temperatures above 1090 °C is likely to cause loss of its phosphorescent properties.
Strontium aluminate phosphors produce green and aqua hues, where green gives the highest brightness and aqua the longest glow time. The excitation wavelengths for strontium aluminate range from 200 to 450 nm. The wavelength for its green formulation is 520 nm, its blue-green version emits at 505 nm, and the blue one emits at 490 nm. Strontium aluminate phosphor is fired at about 1250 °C. Subjecting it to temperatures above 1090 °C is likely to cause loss of its phosphorescent properties.
Pictured to the left are two cups each containing 10 grams of strontium aluminate, they were exposed to the same light source for the same duration. Cup A's strontium aluminate is ground to a fine powder consistency so it can injection molded into products you see on store shelves. You can buy this powder anywhere. 
All our glow in the dark powders are based on strontium aluminate and coated so that they are stable in any water based medium. Not everyone else can claim that. Mixing your own paint is as simple as adding it to a clear acrylic artist gel. However, the list of usable mediums is as endless as your imagination. Green glow in the dark powder is the brightest and offers the longest after glow of all glow in the dark phosphorescent colors. It’s most commonly used in safety applications such as exit signs but is very well suited to any application that requires a bright glow and long after glow. It is perfect for star murals.
Strontium is a chemical element with symbol Sr and atomic number 38. An alkaline earth metal, strontium is a soft silver-white or yellowish metallic element that is highly reactive chemically. The metal turns yellow when it is exposed to air. Strontium has physical and chemical properties similar to those of its two neighbors calcium and barium.