PLACEMENT OF THE CANARY NEST. Place the nest in the cage, attached to the bars, but make sure it is not directly under a perch or near a feeding or water dish. Your canary bird hen will appreciate a little space of her own. If possible place the nest toward the top of the cage near a corner. She will feel safest here. Obviously, if she looks like she is crowded against the top of the cage move the nest down a bit. Make sure the canary nest is secure and level. The last thing you want is to have your baby canaries falling to the floor of the cage.
Yes, we first meet up with the Canary bird in the Canary Islands, off the coast of Africa, in a line with Spain. The birds are named after the islands, not the other way around. Curiously, the Romans named them the Dog Islands, for the inhabitants bred an extremely large type of dog. 
The domestic canary is a small songbird. Breeders divide canaries into three main groups: colorbred canaries, song canaries and type canaries. Black canaries and red canaries are examples of the colorbred variant, which are bred for their plumage. Appearance and Characteristics. Size: Canaries are small, with most birds reaching a size of no more than 6 to 8 inches or so in adulthood. Plumage: While the canary is usually pictured as yellow or green, colorbred canaries have been engineered in a selection of other colors.
For Your Canary Birds. When choosing a canary nest for your breeding canaries consider your options, nest placement, and use of nesting materials. Canaries use the open bowl-shaped nest rather than the enclosed-only-one-small-hole-open-on-the-side nest. Obviously, if she looks like she is crowded against the top of the cage move the nest down a bit. Make sure the canary nest is secure and level. The last thing you want is to have your baby canaries falling to the floor of the cage.
Place the nest in the cage, attached to the bars, but make sure it is not directly under a perch or near a feeding or water dish. Your canary bird hen will appreciate a little space of her own. Obviously, if she looks like she is crowded against the top of the cage move the nest down a bit. Make sure the canary nest is secure and level. The last thing you want is to have your baby canaries falling to the floor of the cage.
Species like the European Goldfinch will prefer the open 'Canary' style nest and will probably never breed in any other type of nest. Others like Gouldians are often bred in the larger nest boxes, which hang partly outside the cage leaving more space in the cage available for exercise. All of the above. If you buy your finches from a local breeder, ask him or her what types of nests these finches were bred in. They will be more comfortable in the same types of nests they hatched in and may breed more readily. If the breeder can not be contacted it's best to buy the type of nest which will fit your cage best
Be careful...don't place the canary nest so high she can't enter and exit easily. Keep the top of the nest at least 4 inches from the top of the cage. This will give her room to go in and out and also enough room to stand up and turn around in the nest. Obviously, if she looks like she is crowded against the top of the cage move the nest down a bit. Make sure the canary nest is secure and level. The last thing you want is to have your baby canaries falling to the floor