Apparently, the company's not a fan of the $.99 model. Microsoft has revealed the pricing details of app purchases in the Windows Store on the Windows Store for Developers blog. The model's pretty standard with the existing model that Apple's set out in the App Store. Obviously, apps can be free or paid. Paid apps can be priced in the range of $1.49 up to $999.99, with the company taking a 30 percent cut of each sale, although that percentage will be lowered to 20 percent if the app reaches $25,000 in sales. We're guessing that Microsoft's just not a fan of the $.99 standard that Apple's set. 
But all of that only works if you get your apps through the Windows Store. Otherwise, it's business as usual — a gaggle of hard-to-install software with no standards, no guarantee it'll be touch-compatible, hard-to-update, and from disparate sources. Users want to go where the apps are. Meanwhile, Windows 8 has an app store, as well. But it's totally separate from the Windows Phone store. For a user, it means potentially buying the same app twice for two devices. For a developer, it means having to make two entirely different versions of an app
Excel Mobile. PowerPoint Mobile. Word Mobile. OneNote. The first time you install an app from the Windows Store, you will be asked to sign in with a personal Microsoft account or the work or school account that you use with Office 365. When the apps are installed, you'll see them at your Windows Start Screen. 
The app is no longer available in the Store. Sometimes, apps are removed from the Windows Store. In this case, if someone shared a link to an app with you, you’ll be able to see the app description page on the web, but when you try to view the app in the Store, you’ll see a message that the app isn’t available. To buy an app from the Store in a specific country or region (based on the Home location setting for your Surface), your payment method needs to be from that country or region. To check your country or region setting, see below.
Once you’ve installed Windows 8, you need to download developer tooling and sign up for an account at the Windows Store Developer Portal. Visual Studio 2012 is required, and it comes in a free Express version that has everything you need to build a full-featured Windows Store app. There are many reasons you should consider writing a Windows Store application for Windows 8. To start, with more than 100 million app downloads, the Windows Store is proving to be a viable ecosystem for entrepreneurs and developers.
Microsoft has an app store, too, for Windows Phone. But as it stands today, there just aren't a lot of good apps. The apps that are on this store tend to be pale imitations of the ones that users enjoy on iPhone and Android, especially since Google offers none of its apps through the Windows Store. Users want to go where the apps are. Meanwhile, Windows 8 has an app store, as well. But it's totally separate from the Windows Phone store. For a user, it means potentially buying the same app twice for two devices. For a developer, it means having to make two entirely different versions of an app
There are many ways to monetize your Windows Store application. The first and most obvious way is to specify a purchase price. The Windows Store Dev Center is where you define the pricing details of your app as it appears in the Windows Store. You can charge anywhere from $1.49 to $999.99. You can even specify a trial period of one day to 30 days. There are many reasons you should consider writing a Windows Store application for Windows 8. To start, with more than 100 million app downloads, the Windows Store is proving to be a viable ecosystem for entrepreneurs and developers.
In order to submit your apps to be published to the Windows Phone or Windows store, you will need one to eight screenshots from your app. The publish package contains a sample of screenshots for your app; however, you can always use your device or the emulator in Visual Studio to select the exact screenshots you want. The Windows Store requires you to reserve your App Name before you submit to the store. Once you have reserved the name the store will assign a Package Identity. You need to know this information and your name and ID as the publisher.