The organelle that modifies and packages proteins is the Golgi  apparatus. When it does this, it is preparing the proteins for  secretion. The Organelle that break down large molecules is the lysosome. the one that prepares them for secretion is the Golgi body (apparatus).
The organelle that produces and modifies polysaccharides that will be secreted is called the Golgi apparatus. The Organelle that break down large molecules is the lysosome. the one that prepares them for secretion is the Golgi body (apparatus).
Golgi Body: vesicles attach to the Golgi and it modifies them then ships them out to various areas inside or outside the cell where they are needed. It is like layers of panca … kes stepped on in the middle (appearance wise). 1 person found this useful. The Organelle that break down large molecules is the lysosome. the one that prepares them for secretion is the Golgi body (apparatus).
39) A cell has the following molecules and structures: enzymes, DNA, ribosomes, plasma membrane, and mitochondria. It could be a cell from. A) a bacterium. B) an animal, but not a plant. C) a plant, but not an animal. D) a plant or an animal. E) any kind of organism. Flashcard Review. 28. 28) Which of the following produces and ... 29. 29) Which of the following contains ... 30. 30) Which of the following is a ... 31. 31) Which is one of the main energy ...
feldman2009. Answered in Chapter 6. A cell has the following molecules and structures: enzymes, DNA, ribosomes, plasmamembrane, and mitochondria. It could be a cell from. A) a bacterium. B) an animal, but not a plant. C) a plant, but not an animal. D) a plant or an animal. E) any kind of organism. C) on the endoplasmic reticulum. D)on the inner plasma membrane. E) on the inner nuclear envelope. D)on the inner plasma membrane. feldman2009. Answered in Chapter 6. A biologist ground up some plant leaf cells and then centrifuged the mixture to fractionate the organelles.
Organelles in one of the heavier fractions could produce ATP in the light, while organelles in the lighter fraction could produce ATP in the dark. The heavier and lighter fractions are most likely to contain, respectively, A) mitochondria and chloroplasts. B) chloroplasts and peroxisomes. Flashcard Review. 28. 28) Which of the following produces and ... 29. 29) Which of the following contains ... 30. 30) Which of the following is a ... 31. 31) Which is one of the main energy ...
C) on the endoplasmic reticulum. D) on the inner plasma membrane. E) on the inner nuclear envelope. Answer: D. Topic: Concept 6.5. Skill: Knowledge/Comprehension. twiggiexd. Answered in Biology Chapter 6. 37) A biologist ground up some plant leaf cells and then centrifuged the mixture to fractionate the organelles. Flashcard Review. 28. 28) Which of the following produces and ... 29. 29) Which of the following contains ... 30. 30) Which of the following is a ... 31. 31) Which is one of the main energy ...
C) They are constructed of polymers that are synthesized in the cytoplasm and then transported out of the cell. D) They are composed of a mixture of lipids and nucleotides. C) They are constructed of polymers that are synthesized in the cytoplasm and then transported out of the cell. A) They must block water and small molecules to regulate the exchange of matter and energy with their environment. B) They must provide a rigid structure that maintains an appropriate ratio of cell surface area to volume.