Between its desiccated, red-orange landscape and surface temperatures hot enough to melt lead, Venus is our solar system's analog to hell. Setting up a livable base on the planet is a feat far beyond our technological capabilities right now, but here's what life would be like if we could actually live on Venus. Venus is often thought of as Earth's twin sister because the size and composition of the two planets are similar. It would almost be like being in water.. Likewise, it'd be hard to miss the change in atmospheric pressure. At sea level on Earth, the air presses down on our bodies at 14.5 pounds per square inch, or 1 bar; the surface pressure on Venus is 92 bar.
Most astronomers feel that it would be impossible for life to exist on Venus. Today, Venus is a very hostile place. It is a very dry planet with no evidence of water, its surface temperature is hot enough to melt lead, and its atmosphere is so thick that the air pressure on its surface is over 90 times that on Earth. Even the spacecraft which have landed on Venus only survived for about an hour before being crushed and melted. There are however, a few scientists who think that it is possible for life to exist in the clouds of Venus. 1  Javascript must be enabled to use Cool Cosmos. 2  Learn how.
Venus. Venus is the second planet from the sun in the Milky Way Galaxy and is known to be the single hottest planet within the solar system making it completely inhospitable to life. As far as life on other planets goes, Venus is one of the most inhospitable planets in the solar system. 
Venus would not be a pleasant place for people to live in the solar system. The planet's active volcanoes and runaway greenhouse effect would make it a difficult place to survive. Credit: NSSDC Photo Gallery View full size image. It would almost be like being in water.. Likewise, it'd be hard to miss the change in atmospheric pressure. At sea level on Earth, the air presses down on our bodies at 14.5 pounds per square inch, or 1 bar; the surface pressure on Venus is 92 bar.
The planet's defining surface characteristic, however, is its flat, smooth plains, which cover about two-thirds of Venus — these plains would, arguably, be the best places to set up a home base to live. Walking around on Venus wouldn't be a pleasant experience. It would almost be like being in water.. Likewise, it'd be hard to miss the change in atmospheric pressure. At sea level on Earth, the air presses down on our bodies at 14.5 pounds per square inch, or 1 bar; the surface pressure on Venus is 92 bar.
It's atmosphere is not as good as Earth's, instead of oxygen, Venus contains greenhouse gasses, carbon dioxide, and sulfur dioxide. The atmo … sphere on Venus is quite thick and because it is carbon instead of oxygen life can't exist on this planet including us humans, because in order to live you need oxygen. Even the spacecraft which have landed on Venus only survived for about an hour before being crushed and melted. There are however, a few scientists who think that it is possible for life to exist in the clouds of Venus.
Most astronomers feel that it would be impossible for life to exist on Venus. Today, Venus is a very hostile place. It is a very dry planet with no evidence of water, its surf … ace temperature is hot enough to melt lead, and its atmosphere is so thick that the air pressure on its surface is over 90 times that on Earth. Even the spacecraft which have landed on Venus only survived for about an hour before being crushed and melted. There are however, a few scientists who think that it is possible for life to exist in the clouds of Venus.
First, alternatives to terraforming. It would be possible to live on Venus in the high atmosphere, in giant floating cities. Using a standard space-station atmospheric mix at about half an earth atmosphere, a pressurized geodesic sphere would float naturally somewhere above the bulk of the clouds of sulfuric acid.
No. The surface temperature is about 730 K (854 F), and the surface pressure is 90 times that at Earth's sea level. You would be boiled and crushed in an instant! You could not even get from your spacecraft to a protected, pre-fabricated home base without being squashed! 
Some scientists think that there could be microbial life high up in the atmosphere of Venus. Since the Sun’s solar wind is constantly blowing on Venus, and Earth is “downwind” from Venus, it’s possible that microbial life is being blown from Venus to Earth. Maybe life on Earth got its start on Venus. You can read a longer article about the possibility of life on Venus here. 