This report describes the typical weather at the Shanghai Hongqiao International Airport (Shanghai, China) weather station over the course of an average year. It is based on the historical records from 1988 to 2012. Earlier records are either unavailable or unreliable. Shanghai has a warm humid temperate climate with hot summers and no dry season. The area within 25 mi of this station is covered by croplands (81%), oceans and seas (9%), built-up areas (3%), lakes and rivers (3%), and shrublands (3%).
During September, October and November, temperatures in Shanghai start to fall, but it's still mild. From the low 20s in September to around 13°C in November, day time temperatures are pleasant, and night time temperatures rarely fall below 10°C. Spring is a very popular and pleasant time to visit Shanghai, especially during the cherry blossom season. Temperatures are mild and pleasant and although there are plenty of showers, the rain is not non-stop.
The table below displays average monthly climate indicators in SHANGHAI based on 8 years of historical weather readings. Temperature by: Fahrenheit / Centigrade. SHANGHAI 31 40 N, 121 46 E, 13 feet (4 meters) above sea level. 
Shanghai: Annual Weather Averages. July is the hottest month in Shanghai with an average temperature of 29°C (84°F) and the coldest is January at 4°C (39°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 8 in August. The wettest month is September with an average of 156mm of rain. The best month to swim in the sea is in August when the average sea temperature is 27°C (81°F).
Weather: Spring is from March to May. Temperatures climb from cool to warm. It is a good time for traveling in Shanghai. The weather feels comfortable with the average temperature at around 15 °C (59 °F). Precipitation: There is moderate rainfall. Clothing: Sweaters and coats are suitable for this season, but prepare lighter clothes for warmer days. When travelingin Shanghai during these periods, prepare your umbrellas or raincoats. The temperatures are not extreme. The hottest month is July, with an average high of 32 °C (90 °F).The coldest month is January, with an average low of 1 °C (34 °F).
Average Temperatures in Shanghai, China. 1  The annual mean temperature in Shanghai, China is very mild at 15.8 degrees Celsius (60.4 degrees Fahrenheit). 2  There is a range of average monthly temperatures of 24.1 C (43.4 F) which is a below moderate range. 3  The mean daily temperature variation/ range is 7.4 C (13.3 F). 1 The warmest month (July) is hot having an average temperature of 27.8 degrees Celsius (82.04 degrees Fahrenheit). 2  January is the coolest month (cool) with a mean temperature of 3.7 degrees Celsius (38.66
Summer temperatures in Shanghai are in the 27-30°C range, but because this is also Shanghai's wettest season, the humidity can make it feel sticky and uncomfortable. Spring is a very popular and pleasant time to visit Shanghai, especially during the cherry blossom season. Temperatures are mild and pleasant and although there are plenty of showers, the rain is not non-stop.
Shanghai's winter months, December, January and February, are decidedly cool, with daily highs of around 4-6°C and overnight temperatures which can fall below freezing. Snow is quite rare, falling for only 1 or 2 days a year, but it can feel bitterly cold when winds blow from Siberia. Spring is a very popular and pleasant time to visit Shanghai, especially during the cherry blossom season. Temperatures are mild and pleasant and although there are plenty of showers, the rain is not non-stop.
Shanghai has a humid subtropical climate with four distinct seasons. Winters arecold and temperatures sometimes drop below zero. Snow seldom falls. Incontrast, summers tend to be hot and humid. The annual precipitation is 1,200 mm (47 inches). When travelingin Shanghai during these periods, prepare your umbrellas or raincoats. The temperatures are not extreme. The hottest month is July, with an average high of 32 °C (90 °F).The coldest month is January, with an average low of 1 °C (34 °F).
1 The annual mean temperature in Shanghai, China is very mild at 15.8 degrees Celsius (60.4 degrees Fahrenheit). 2  There is a range of average monthly temperatures of 24.1 C (43.4 F) which is a below moderate range. 1 The warmest month (July) is hot having an average temperature of 27.8 degrees Celsius (82.04 degrees Fahrenheit). 2  January is the coolest month (cool) with a mean temperature of 3.7 degrees Celsius (38.66