White Spirit is a petroleum distillate used as a paint thinner and mild solvent. In industry, mineral spirits are used for cleaning and degreasing machine tools and parts, and in conjunction with cutting oil as a thread cutting and reaming lubricant. Mineral spirits are often used inside liquid-filled compasses and gauges. Mineral spirits are also used for re-gripping golf clubs. After the old grip is removed, the mineral spirits are poured into the new grip and shaken. After, the mineral spirits are poured on, the new underlying tape and the new grip is slid on.
A mixture of aliphatic and alicyclic C7 to C12 hydrocarbons, white spirit is used as an extraction solvent, as a cleaning solvent, as a degreasing solvent and as a solvent in aerosols, paints, wood preservatives, lacquers, varnishes, and asphalt products. Mineral spirits are often used inside liquid-filled compasses and gauges. Mineral spirits are also used for re-gripping golf clubs. After the old grip is removed, the mineral spirits are poured into the new grip and shaken. After, the mineral spirits are poured on, the new underlying tape and the new grip is slid on.
Artists use mineral spirits as an alternative to turpentine, one that is both less flammable and less toxic. Because of interactions with pigments, artists require a higher grade of mineral spirits than many industrial users, including the complete absence of residual sulphur. In industry, mineral spirits is used for cleaning and degreasing machine tools and parts. According to Wesco, a supplier of solvents and cleaning equipment, mineral spirits are especially effective in removing oils, greases, carbon, and other material from metal..
The Klean Strip Green products are formulated for effective performance as well as having a reduced impact on the world in which we live. Klean-Strip 1 gal. Green Odorless Mineral Spirits is a unique, patent-pending formula that thins oil-based paint, stain and varnish. It will also clean brushes, paint splatters and equipment. The formula is milky-white formula but is safe for use in all colors of coatings. Rated 1.0 out of 5.0 by mikeorama Horrible product -- N OT MINERAL SPIRITS! This is NOT mineral spirits; it is mineral spirits SUBSTITUTE and a very poor substitute it is. It's thick and milky white. Works okay for cleaning oil paint and varnish off your hands, but useless for thinning purposes.
Klean-Strip® Green™ Odorless Mineral Spirits is a unique, patent-pending formula that has no hazardous air pollutants*, no ozone depleting chemicals and 65% fewer VOCs than regular mineral spirits. It’s also made with 65% more renewable resources and produces 65% lower fumes than traditional mineral spirits. 
Mineral spirits are an inexpensive petroleum-based replacement for the vegetable-based turpentine. It is commonly used as a paint thinner for oil-based paint and cleaning brushes, and as an organic solvent in other applications. Mineral spirits are often used inside liquid-filled compasses and gauges. Mineral spirits are also used for re-gripping golf clubs. After the old grip is removed, the mineral spirits are poured into the new grip and shaken. After, the mineral spirits are poured on, the new underlying tape and the new grip is slid on.
White spirit is the most widely used solvent in the paint industry. In households, white spirit is commonly used to clean paint brushes after use, to clean auto parts and tools, as a starter fluid for charcoal grills, to remove adhesive residue from non-porous surfaces, and many other common tasks. Mineral spirits are often used inside liquid-filled compasses and gauges. Mineral spirits are also used for re-gripping golf clubs. After the old grip is removed, the mineral spirits are poured into the new grip and shaken. After, the mineral spirits are poured on, the new underlying tape and the new grip is slid on.
Mineral Spirits. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Mineral Spirits is a petroleum distilate commonly used as a paint thinner and mild solvent. In Europe, it is referred to as petroleum spirit or white spirit. In industry, mineral spirits is used for cleaning and degreasing machine tools and parts. According to Wesco, a supplier of solvents and cleaning equipment, mineral spirits are especially effective in removing oils, greases, carbon, and other material from metal..
Actually yes-White spirit is also known as Stoddard Solvent or White Mineral Spirit or LAWS (low aromatic white spirit). The term Mineral Spirit is also sometimes used to de … scribe Mineral Turpentine (Turpentine substitute) or HAWS (High Aromatic White Spirit). 12 people found this useful. Tklow. The so-called dollar stores have cheap window cleaner, or you can make your own. Mineral spirits are a p … etroleum distilate. Sure, they're low odor, but they are flammable, volatile and more toxic than any regular window cleaner.