Bionicle was discontinued in 2010 and subsequently “replaced” by a successor toy line called Hero Factory, which featured a similar building system. The Bionicle franchise was well received over its venture and became one of the Lego Group's biggest-selling properties. At the time of its launch, one reviewer described the sets as A good combination of assembly and action figure. and first-year sales of £100 million ($161.7 million).
LEGO Bionicle. Browse the ultimate LEGO Bionicle selection when you shop ToysRUs. These popular building toys are great for imaginative play whether your children want to recreate the story of the Toa or mastermind a story all their own. 
1,917 pages on this wiki. The BIONICLE Wiki. Welcome to Wiki Metru 's The BIONICLE Wiki, the most accurate Wikia wiki about BIONICLE that anyone can edit! You can add anything you like, as long as your information comes from an official BIONICLE source, such as the books, comics, or from the LEGO website. 
In the LEGO® BIONICLE® world, six Toa must seek the Masks of Power before they fall into the hands of the evil Makuta and his helpers. Children can easily build and rebuild durable action figures. Each Toa comes with an elemental mask and a golden power mask, as well as a mask pop-off trigger. 
In the LEGO® BIONICLE® world, six Toa must seek the Masks of Power before they fall into the hands of the evil Makuta and his helpers. Children can easily build and rebuild durable action figures. Each Toa comes with an elemental mask and a golden power mask, as well as a mask pop-off trigger. 
BIONICLE. BIONICLE. BIONICLE is a line of Toys and a Storyline made by the Lego Group that is marketed towards those in the 7-16 year-old range. The line was launched in January 2001 in Europe and June/July 2001 in the United States. The 3 Virtues: Unity, Duty and Destiny, most notable symbol of BIONICLE. The year 1997 was an absolutely horrid time for the LEGO company. For the first time in the history of the company, it had posted a loss. The LEGO Company needed a change in order for it to appeal to this new generation of youngsters.
Bionicle (stylized as BIONICLE) is a line of construction toys created by The Lego Group marketed primarily for 5-to-16-year-olds. Originally a sub-theme of Lego’s Technic series, the line was launched in 2000 in Europe and Australia and 2001 in North America. The Bionicle franchise was well received over its venture and became one of the Lego Group's biggest-selling properties. At the time of its launch, one reviewer described the sets as A good combination of assembly and action figure. and first-year sales of £100 million ($161.7 million).
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Bionicle: Mask of Light (also known as Bionicle: Mask of Light—The Movie) is a 2003 direct-to-video fantasy film based on the Lego toy series Bionicle, produced by Creative Capers Entertainment and released by Walt Disney Studios Home Entertainment and Miramax Films. 
BIONICLE is normally attributed to the TECHNIC line, due to the inclusion of TECHNIC specific elements and building-styles, although being a largely independent product series. BIONICLE was re-released in 2015. The story is a reboot rather then a continuation of the original story. The sets feature the Toa, the Protectors, the Mask Maker, and the evil Skull Spiders. The sets now use the CCBS system.
BIONICLE is a constraction (construction/action) theme with a series of sets using modified TECHNIC pieces and ball-and-socket joints to create large, elaborate figures. The theme was introduced in 2001 and originally discontinued in 2010, being succeeded by Hero Factory. BIONICLE was re-released in 2015. The story is a reboot rather then a continuation of the original story. The sets feature the Toa, the Protectors, the Mask Maker, and the evil Skull Spiders. The sets now use the CCBS system.