Dwarf fruit trees are perhaps the most exotic plants you can grow indoors. Native to tropical regions around the world, their lush foliage, exotic flowers and edible fruits make captivating conversation pieces for a sunroom -- or a sunny room. If you've ever thought about growing banana plants indoors, you'll want 'Dwarf Cavendish', a compact variety that tops out at 6 ft (1.8 m) tall. Red flowers (shown at left) are followed by a bunch of bananas.
Consider growing a dwarf banana tree, such as a Dwarf Cavendish or a Dwarf Brazilian variety, because these trees don't get as big as their larger counterparts and are therefore easier to manage. Choose a planting site that receives full sun. 7. Spread a 6-inch-deep layer of mulch, such as wood chips or bark fragments, around your dwarf banana tree. This reduces weed problems, keeps the soil cool and helps conserve moisture. Additionally, the mulch will slowly decompose and enhance the underlying soil.
Dwarf bananas grow between 4 and 8 feet tall, while taller varieties grow 10 to 15 feet high. The plant grows outdoors and indoors in containers to provide a tropical touch to the setting. Sensitive to cold climates, the tropical plants thrive in areas with temperatures above 55 degrees Fahrenheit. Feed outdoor dwarf banana plant 2 lb. of an 8-10-8 fertilizer every month during the summer. Spread the fertilizer in a circle around the plant, 3 to 4 feet away from the trunk to prevent direct contact. Fertilize container-grown bananas with half the amount of fertilizer.
Dwarf bananas, such as the dwarf cavendish, require the same care as their taller cousins. The only difference between the two varieties is their height. Dwarf bananas reach a height of anywhere between 4 to 7 feet, while taller varieties can grow 12 to 18 feet tall. Being a tropical fruit, bananas require warm conditions to grow. Plant outside in zones 9 and 10. Fertilize outdoor dwarf banana plants once per month with an 8-10-8 fertilizer. Apply at a rate of 2 pounds per plant. Spread the fertilizer in a circle extending approximately 4 feet from the banana's trunk. Do not allow the fertilizer to touch the trunk.
Dwarf Banana Plants. If you've ever thought about growing banana plants indoors, you'll want 'Dwarf Cavendish', a compact variety that tops out at 6 ft (1.8 m) tall. Red flowers (shown at left) are followed by a bunch of bananas. It's perfectly happy in a container, as long as you can provide the sunlight it need
Step 1. Grow dwarf bananas outside in a warm location, such as on the south side of the house, next to a building or a cement driveway. Grow in an area that receives either full sun or at least four hours of sunlight throughout the day. Fertilize outdoor dwarf banana plants once per month with an 8-10-8 fertilizer. Apply at a rate of 2 pounds per plant. Spread the fertilizer in a circle extending approximately 4 feet from the banana's trunk. Do not allow the fertilizer to touch the trunk.
How to Grow Dwarf Banana Trees. Technically, a dwarf or the other banana varieties, is not tree, it is a plant. Banana plants like full sun, even the potted ones need 4-5 hours of good light, partial or diffused is also just fine. A dwarf banana plant only grows up to three to four feet tall from a corm, and grows erect like a pseudostem. Each pseudostem bears one bunch of bananas. The leaves are spirally arranged, smooth textured and a bright green.
Instructions. Grow the dwarf banana plant in well-draining soil with a pH between 5.5 and 7.0. Expose it to at least four hours of direct sunlight every day. Amend the planting site with organic matter such as compost or peat. Feed outdoor dwarf banana plant 2 lb. of an 8-10-8 fertilizer every month during the summer. Spread the fertilizer in a circle around the plant, 3 to 4 feet away from the trunk to prevent direct contact. Fertilize container-grown bananas with half the amount of fertilizer.
Super Dwarf Cavendish and the Dwarf Red are very suitable for indoor growing. The Super Dwarf grow only 3 to 4 feet tall (1 to 1.2 m), if you are really cramped on space. Super Dwarf Cavendish. These are real fruiting bananas, a scaled down version of the dwarf Cavendish grown commercially in the Canary Islands. Planting: Grow bananas in a container that is not too large. It should be a standard 6 inch (15 cm) or 8 inch (20 cm) pot with a drainage hole. Never plant it in a container without a drainage hole. You can always transplant to a larger container when your plant is quite crowded