If you plan to grow taller marijuana plants like that of pure and mostly sativa types, make sure to prepare the grow room with space that is enough to accommodate the horizontal and vertical growth of the plants. If space indoors is confined, choose a type of strain that can go well with it like indica types. If cannabis plants are growing very tall, below are some of the things that a grower can do: 1. Cut the tops of the cannabis plants. This process is done to stop the vertical growth of the weed plants. It is one of the oldest techniques that are still done by several growers nowadays.
Sativa plants are taller, take longer to mature, have less chlorophyll and more accessory pigments (accessory pigments protect the plant from excessive sunlight). As Sativa strains have less chlorophyll than Indica they take longer to grow, mature, and require more light. More info on Indica/Sativa identification: Sativas are just about the opposite of Indicas. They are tall, thin plants, with much narrower leaves and grow a lighter green in color. They grow very quickly and can reach heights of 20 feet in a single season.
Some sativa marijuana seeds will produce marijuana plants up seven or eight feet indoors. Many marijuana growers don't have this kind of space in their grow room to plant marijuana seeds that reach dizzying heights. Yet the marijuana high and weed taste makes growing sativa marijuana seeds very desirable. Marijuana growers who opt to grow sativa weed seeds can also use FIM or other supercropping techniques to manage the height of their cannabis plants. Sativa marijuana seeds often take to supercropping much better than indica cannabis plants that tend to be short and squat.
Sativa. Sativa strains are characterised by their tall, rangy plant structure and their long-finger like fan leaves. Sativa strains have been known to reach the soaring heights of 25ft (7.5m) when grown outdoors however they generally grow to around 8ft (2.5m) as a norm. Sativa strains take slightly longer to mature than indica strains and produce higher levels of THC and lower levels of CBD. This provides growers with a different option in terms of taste and high with sativa weed providing an uplifting, energetic, often cerebral high.
Sativa's typically take longer to germinate and flower, and they grow more gangly then indica breeds. More info on Indica/Sativa identification: Sativas are just about the opposite of Indicas. They are tall, thin plants, with much narrower leaves and grow a lighter green in color. They grow very quickly and can reach heights of 20 feet in a single season.
Sativa are tall, lean plants, with lighter green, narrow or thin leaves and generally have a neutral to fruity scent in vegetative growth and fruity and/or floral buds. They grow very quickly and can reach heights of 6 meters within thew growing season. 
Sometimes a weed grower just desires planting sativa marijuana seeds in their indoor grow room. Sativa marijuana seeds grow very tall and require plenty of grow room space to reach full maturity. Thus they require a bit more planning. Some sativa marijuana seeds will produce marijuana plants up seven or eight feet indoors. Many marijuana growers don't have this kind of space in their grow room to plant marijuana seeds that reach dizzying heights. Yet the marijuana high and weed taste makes growing sativa marijuana seeds very desirable. Firstly you do need a room with enough height for both lights and marijuana plant. Sativa marijuana plants need supporting. There are many different ways to support your sativa marijuana seeds. One the best way is with a devise we call a yo-yo. This is a sprung loaded reel with about 2 meters of line in it.
Cannabis Sativa Strains. Sativa is almost the opposite of the Indica. The plants are taller. They take longer time to mature. They have less chlorophyll and more accessory pigments. Let me just say again that these accessory pigments protect the sun from excessive sunlight. The Indica plant failed in comparison on this with the Sativa. Although the Sativa plants are way more potent than the Indica, the yields are generally much lower. This strain is highly recommended in outdoor farming because the plants tend to grow too tall and the maturity rate is longer.
Indica yield is usually higher than Sativa, and shorter growing season. Better for indoor growing, because they don't get as tall. Indica plants are short, bushy, mature early, have more chlorophyll and less accessory pigments (accessory pigments protect the plant from excessive sunlight). More info on Indica/Sativa identification: Sativas are just about the opposite of Indicas. They are tall, thin plants, with much narrower leaves and grow a lighter green in color. They grow very quickly and can reach heights of 20 feet in a single season.
Sativa and Indica are the two major types of cannabis plants which can mix together to create hybrid strains. Each strain has its own range of effects on the body and mind resulting in a wide range of medicinal benefits. Indica plants typically grow short and wide, compared to Sativa plants which grow tall and thin. Indica plants are better suited for indoor growing because of their short growth and sativa plants are better suited for outdoor growing because some strains can reach over 25 ft. in height. 