Silver has also been used to create coins, although today other metals are typically used in its place. Sterling silver, an alloy containing 92.5% silver, is used to make silverware, jewelry and other decorative items. High capacity batteries can be made with silver and zinc and silver and cadmium. Sliver nitrate (AgNO 3) is light sensitive and is used to make photographic films and papers. Silver iodide (AgI) is used to seed clouds to produce rain.
Silver is a chemical element with symbol Ag (Greek: άργυρος arguros, árguros: latin, argentum both from The-Indo european *root- h₂erǵ for grey or) shining and atomic number. 47 a, soft, white lustrous transition, metal it possesses the highest electrical, conductivity thermal conductivity and reflectivity of any. metal The metal is primarily produced as a byproduct of electrolytic copper refining, gold, nickel, and zinc refining, and by application of the Parkes process on lead metal obtained from lead ores that contain small amounts of silver.
The metal occurs naturally in its pure, free form (native silver), as an alloy with gold and other metals, and in minerals such as argentite and chlorargyrite. Most silver is produced as a byproduct of copper, gold, lead, and zinc refining. Silver has long been valued as a precious metal. The metal is primarily produced as a byproduct of electrolytic copper refining, gold, nickel, and zinc refining, and by application of the Parkes process on lead metal obtained from lead ores that contain small amounts of silver.
Here is the reflectance spectrum for silver. It reflects the entire visible spectrum, absorbing light only in the ultra-violet region. An ingot of elemental silver will have a silvery-white color. In fact silver is said to be the whitest of all metals. If you grind the silver up into smaller and smaller particles, the silver will appear progressively grayer or darker. 
Elemental Silver and mixed antioxidants are the main ingredient in our skin care formulations. Silver in it's elemental form has been proven to destroy bacteria, viruses and fungi on contact and within seconds. SilverPure products are soothing, 100% natural skin emollients. We use the highest quality oils and waxes such as beeswax, lanolin, mineral oil, jojoba oil, cocoa butter and various mixed antioxidants. 
Sterling silver contains 92.5% silver. The rest is copper or some other metal. It is used for jewellery and silver tableware, where appearance is important. Silver is used to make mirrors, as it is the best reflector of visible light known, although it does tarnish with time. Silver has antibacterial properties and can kill lower organisms quite effectively. Natural abundance. Silver occurs uncombined, and in ores such as argentite and chlorargyrite (horn silver). However, it is mostly extracted from lead-zinc, copper, gold and copper-nickel ores as a by-product of mining for these metals.
Silver often plays second fiddle to another precious metal, gold, but this element has special properties that deserve a good look. For example, of all the metals, pure silver is the best conductor of heat and electricity, according to the Jefferson National Linear Accelerator Laboratory. 
Source: Silver is found in elemental form and also in various ores such as argentite (silver sulfide, Ag 2 S) and horn silver (silver chloride, AgCl). Commercially, the main sources of silver are copper, copper-nickel, gold, lead, and lead-zinc ores. Our name for the element is derived from the Anglo-Saxon for silver, ‘seolfor,’ which itself comes from ancient Germanic ‘silabar.’. Silver’s chemical symbol, Ag, is an abbreviation of the Latin word for silver, ‘argentum.’ The Latin word originates from argunas, a Sanskrit word meaning shining.
Silver is a precious metal that has had a number of different uses over the years, including jewelry, coins, silverware, electronics and photography. Find out more about the silver atom and its properties by checking out our interesting facts about silver. Silver is a chemical element. Its chemical symbol is Ag and atomic number is 47. Silver is a soft, shiny metal that is a good conductor of electricity. Silver is precious metal that has been used for many years to make fine pieces of jewelry, coins, utensils and various pieces of art. 