Infectious Bronchitis. Infectious Bronchitis is a diseases respiratory based in backyard flock chickens that is relatively common. This condition is also known as Bronchitis and a Cold. This disease is specific to chickens in particular when it comes to types of poultry. Infectious Coryza s often called Cold or Croup. Many refer to this respiratory disease as Coryza. This is extremely common among backyard flocks of chickens. Chicken diseases symptoms include many of the following: 1  Distinguishable smell that is relatively foul based. 2  Discharge from the nasal cavity and the eyes.
Chicken anaemia virus infection (or CAV). Chicken anaemia virus infection (known generally in the industry as CAV) is an acute viral infection of chickens that is found worldwide. The disease is not known to affect any other bird species,... Marek’s disease virus (MDV) is a highly contagious viral infection that predominantly affects chickens but can also affect pheasants, quail, gamefowl and turkeys. It is one of the most common diseases that affects... read more.
Fowl Pox. Synonyms: chicken pox (not to be confused with chicken pox in humans; the human disease does not affect poultry and vice versa), sore head, avian diphtheria, bird pox. Species affected: Most poultry—chickens, turkeys, pheasants, quail, ducks, psittacine, and ratites—of all ages are susceptible. Poultry refers to birds that people keep for their use and generally includes the chicken, turkey, duck, goose, quail, pheasant, pigeon, guinea fowl, pea fowl, ostrich, emu, and rhea. Due to modern systems of management, usually with high poultry densities, these diseases are able to readily spread.
In older birds, the disease is called aspergillosis. Species affected: All birds (domestic poultry, pigeons, canary and zoo bird species), animals, humans, and plants are susceptible. Clinical signs: Aspergillosis occurs as an acute disease of young birds and a chronic disease in mature birds. Young birds have trouble breathing and gasp for air. Poultry refers to birds that people keep for their use and generally includes the chicken, turkey, duck, goose, quail, pheasant, pigeon, guinea fowl, pea fowl, ostrich, emu, and rhea. Due to modern systems of management, usually with high poultry densities, these diseases are able to readily spread.
When the source of the disease is the hatchery, the disease is called brooder pneumonia. In older birds, the disease is called aspergillosis. Species affected: All birds (domestic poultry, pigeons, canary and zoo bird species), animals, humans, and plants are susceptible. Clinical signs: Aspergillosis occurs as an acute disease of young birds and a chronic disease in mature birds. Common Poultry Diseases 5 to publication PS-23 (Avian Diseases Transmissible to Humans). Clinical signs: Clinical signs in most birds include nasal-ocular discharge, conjunctivitis, sinusitis, diarrhea, weakness, loss of body weight, and a reduction in feed consumption.
Non-Poultry Bird Diseases and Resources. The diseases covered in this section primarily affect pet birds, wild birds or zoo birds. According to a 2007 AVMA survey, approximately 4.5 million U.S. households have pet birds, with an average of 2.5 birds per household, or almost 11.2 million pet birds nationwide.
Cryptosporidiosis. Cryptosporidiosis is a parasitic disease that affects quail, pheasants, peafowl, waterfowl, chickens, turkeys, finches and psittacines (such as parrots). Cryptosporidia are poorly host-specific and can affect other animal species including humans, other mammals,... read more. Marek’s disease virus (MDV) is a highly contagious viral infection that predominantly affects chickens but can also affect pheasants, quail, gamefowl and turkeys. It is one of the most common diseases that affects
Marek's disease is a highly contagious viral neoplastic disease in chickens. It is named after Jozsef József, marek A hungarian. Veterinarian occasionally misdiagnosed as an abtissue pathology it is caused by an alphaherpesvirus known 'As'marek s disease' (VIRUS) mdv Or gallid herpesvirus (GaHV-gahv). 2 
When the source of the disease is the hatchery, the disease is called brooder pneumonia. In older birds, the disease is called aspergillosis. Species affected: All birds (domestic poultry, pigeons, canary and zoo bird species), animals, humans, and plants are susceptible. Clinical signs: Aspergillosis occurs as an acute disease of young birds and a chronic disease in mature birds. Young birds have trouble breathing and gasp for air. Poultry refers to birds that people keep for their use and generally includes the chicken, turkey, duck, goose, quail, pheasant, pigeon, guinea fowl, pea fowl, ostrich, emu and rhea. Due to modern systems of management, usually with high poultry densities, these diseases are able to readily spread.