(See INDICATIONS AND USAGE and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY .). The recommended dose of ZITHROMAX (azithromycin for injection) for the treatment of adult patients with community-acquired pneumonia due to the indicated organisms is: 500 mg as a single daily dose by the intravenous route for at least two days. 250 mL. It is recommended that a 500-mg dose of ZITHROMAX (azithromycin for injection), diluted as above, be infused over a period of not less than 60 minutes. ZITHROMAX (azithromycin for injection) should not be given as a bolus or as an intramuscular injection.
Single Dose Azithromycin Treatment for Chlamydia. Chlamydia is a sexually transmitted disease that affects the reproductive organs. 1  How to Give a Child Azithromycin. Azithromycin is one of three drugs used to treat urinary tract infections caused by chlamydia. Chlamydia is a sexually transmitted disease (STD)...
Treat chlamydia with azithromycin, a strong antibiotic also known as Zithromax. Dosage of this strong antibiotic is often one gram. Azithromycin is known to be effective against multiple bacteria, preventing it from creating proteins essential for multiplication. Azithromycin is one of three drugs used to treat urinary tract infections caused by chlamydia. Chlamydia is a sexually transmitted disease (STD)...
Patients in the study group received 500 mg of oral azithromycin once daily for 5 days, which was repeated after a gap of 10 days (total of 24 courses in the 1-year trial period). This is a comparable dose to one that was recently used to effectively treat chronic plaque psoriasis. Randomized secondary prevention trial of azithromycin in patients with coronary artery disease and serological evidence for Chlamydia pneumoniae infection: The Azithromycin in Coronary Artery Disease: Elimination of Myocardial Infection with Chlamydia (ACADEMIC) study.
The recommended dose of ZITHROMAX (azithromycin for injection) for the treatment of adult patients with pelvic inflammatory disease due to the indicated organisms is: 500 mg as a single daily dose by the intravenous route for one or two days. 250 mL. It is recommended that a 500-mg dose of ZITHROMAX (azithromycin for injection), diluted as above, be infused over a period of not less than 60 minutes. ZITHROMAX (azithromycin for injection) should not be given as a bolus or as an intramuscular injection.
Treatment options for uncomplicated urogenital infections include a single 1-g dose of azithromycin orally, or doxycycline at a dosage of 100 mg orally twice per day for seven days. The recommended treatment during pregnancy is erythromycin base or amoxicillin. 
OR. Ofloxacin 300 mg orally twice a day for 7 days. A meta-analysis of 12 randomized clinical trials of azithromycin versus doxycycline for the treatment of genital chlamydial infection demonstrated that the treatments were equally efficacious, with microbial cure rates of 97% and 98%, respectively (284). Chlamydia treatment should be provided promptly for all persons testing positive for infection; delays in receiving chlamydia treatment have been associated with complications (e.g., PID) in a limited proportion of chlamydia-infected subjects (283).
1 Avoid any sexual contact for 7 days after taking Azithromycin, until no longer infectious. 2  People with a positive chlamydia test and their sexual partners should be treated at the same time if possible. 3  Chlamydia tests take 6 weeks to go negative after chlamydia has been successfully treated. Single dose antibiotic for chlamydia-preventing fertility problems. Buy Azithromycin on prescription to protect you and your partner. 1  Complete medical questionnaire. 2  Register, order and pay.
Patients in the study group received 500 mg of oral azithromycin once daily for 5 days, which was then repeated after a gap of 10 days (total of 24 courses in the 1-year trial period). The control group did not have azithromycin added to their standard CAD treatment. Randomized secondary prevention trial of azithromycin in patients with coronary artery disease and serological evidence for Chlamydia pneumoniae infection: The Azithromycin in Coronary Artery Disease: Elimination of Myocardial Infection with Chlamydia (ACADEMIC) study.
Chlamydia can be easily treated and cured with antibiotics. A single dose of azithromycin or a week of doxycycline (twice daily) are the most commonly used treatments. HIV-positive persons with... It works against several different bacteria, especially chlamydia, hemophilus and streptococcus. These bacteria can infect the skin, nose, throat, and lungs. They can also be transmitted through sexual activity and cause infections in the genital area. Many germs live in our...