Medication: Many medications cause a salty taste in the mouth among their side effects and among these are chemotherapy drugs. If you suspect that your medications are causing you this taste then speak with your doctor.
Dehydration as a cause of a salty taste in the mouth The most probable cause of a salty taste in the mouth is simply dehydration. The more dehydrated a person is, the more concentrated the chemicals are that are in saliva.
Causes of Salty Taste in Mouth. Saliva causes the release by the glands of salivary that are present in the mouth aids in feeling the taste of the food that is eaten. Saliva has numerous different arrangements and the taste of each one varies one from the other.
Most occurrences of a constant abnormal salty taste in the mouth is linked to smoking, which greatly increases the rate of salivary gland infections. Post-nasal drip is also very common and can result in a bad, salty taste in the mouth, which is especially pronounced if the drip is caused by eye drops.
Blood: Blood has a salty taste and there are many reasons that you might have blood in your mouth including a bitten tongue or damaged gums. Even healthy gums sometimes bleed and this can then cause you to get a salty and also 'metallic' taste in your mouth.
A person’s mouth that has a salty taste is not a problem that is very serious, but it can be awfully annoying and causes a lot of awkwardness. There are numerous causes for this atypical taste in the mouth. There was some delusion that taste that is salty might have some relationship with the nose.
A salty taste in the mouth is most commonly due to dehydration as the saliva becomes more salty tasting. You should immediately hydrate by drinking a copious quantity of water.
The taste of sodium in your mouth can also be attributed to bad oral hygiene. The buildup of bacteria in your mouth can not only cause a foul stench, it may be the reason for the brackish taste. Brush your teeth and gargle frequently and you may just note a change for the better in no time. Search for:
A RealAge answered. You could have a salty taste in your mouth from medications you are taking or from a condition doctors call dysgeusia, which is an abnormal taste that won’t go away.