Include this drill in your warm ups. Those new to sprinting and the exercise should start with 75% efforts and 2 x 10 repetitions on both legs and progress to 4 x 10 at maximum speed, gradually over a number of workouts. Maximum speed sprint workouts. Objective: to improve maximum speed. Suitable for: sprinters and all sportsmen and sportswomen whose sports require top sustained speed, for example hockey, football and rugby.
While sprinting, it is important to get a full range of motion with the arms. Remember, speed is a product of stride length and stride frequency. Stride length and frequency are determined, in part, by the motion of the arms. If you are lazy or passive with your arm action, you are limiting your potential for speed. 
Nigel Hetherington explains how to improve your sprinting speed. Keeping it simple while being effective is the challenge with developing most fitness components and improving sprinting speed is no exception to this. Breaking things down into a series of manageable chunks usually makes things easier.
Sprinting is essential if you want to win bike races, and whatever your build or style of riding, it's easy to make some small improvements to your sprinting ability. And, if you follow all these tips, you should be on your way to sprinting success. Music: Uke-A Shadow Walking: http://gcn.eu/1rK5vA3. About GCN: 
If you want to improve your sprinting, there are a number of things to work on. Sprinting is primarily about great technique, underpinned by good co-ordination – and, as they say, practice makes perfect. If you want to excel in this area, practise, practise, practise. 
Look straight ahead. When sprinting, you can use the motion of your arms to help you sprint faster. You should keep your shoulders and arms relaxed during any type of running; many runners hunch their shoulders, drawing them up towards the ears. Tension of this sort in the shoulders causes muscle pain and slows you down. Drop your shoulders away from your ears and keep your hands open with the fingers curled slightly. Allow your arms to move back and forth in rhythm with your legs. Your arms should be moving back and forth in a straight line. Side to side movement
Once you've begun to improve your basic sprinting ability, you should begin to practice sprinting in race-like situations, including: attacking uphill, sprinting downhill, into or out of a corner, sprinting from inside, in front of, or from behind the pack. 
Sprinting is a great way to lose weight and strengthen your cardiovascular system. It can also help increase muscle mass and stamina, and improve your immune system. Sprinting strengthens your heart and other muscles without the stress of cardio workouts, and many people find sprinting to be quite enjoyable. Drop your shoulders away from your ears and keep your hands open with the fingers curled slightly. Allow your arms to move back and forth in rhythm with your legs. Your arms should be moving back and forth in a straight line. Side to side movement slows you down.
Flicks: 10 meters-jog - 10 meters-rest. While sprinting over 10 meters concentrate on flicking your heels up to touch your butt. Leg Speed: 60 meters. This is a normal sprint over 60 meters except all of your focus should be on your legs. Try to gauge the optimum leg speed for you by taking different stride lengths to see which yields the best results. These sprinting technique drills can be performed in this order or alternatively focus on just 3-4 drills. There is no need to perform multiple sets and repetitions. Raise Knee