DNA, RNA and proteins all consist of a repeating structure of related building blocks (nucleotides in the case of DNA and RNA, amino acids in the case of proteins). In general, they are all unbranched polymers, and so can be represented in the form of a string. 
The Four Macromolecules [edit]. All life is composed mainly of the four macromolecule building blocks: carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, and nucleic acids. The interactions of different polymers of these basic molecule types make up the majority of life's structure and function. Of the 92 natural elements, 25 are essential for life. Of these, there are six main elements that are the fundamental building blocks of life. They are, in order of least to most common: sulfur, phosphorous, oxygen, nitrogen, carbon, and hydrogen. An easy way to remember this is SPONCH-a nice mnemonic.
Nucleotides Nucleotides are the monomers, building blocks, of nucleic acids (DNA and RNA). Each nucleotide includes three components: a phosphate, a sugar, and a nitrogenous b … ase. The phosphate is bonded to the sugar through phosphodiester bonds and makes up the backbone of the molecule. There are four available nitrogenous bases in a DNA's nucleotides: adenine, thymine, guanine, and cytosine. RNA nucleotides feature the same bases with the exception of uracil, which replaces thymine.
Nucleotides are the monomer units that make up a DNA molecule. DNA nucleotides are composed of a deoxyribose sugar, a nitrogenous base, and a phosphate group. The building block of DNA is called the nucleotide, which is composed of a nitrogenous base (adenine, guanine, cytosine, or thymine), a five-carbon sugar (deoxyribose in DNA), … and one to three phosphate groups. + 16 others found this useful. Kenneth Huynh.
The phosphate is the same in DNA and RNA, but the sugar can be a ribose (for RNA) or a deoxyribose (for DNA). The latter is a ribose without de- one oxygen -oxy-. There are four available nitrogenous bases in a DNA's nucleotides: adenine, thymine, guanine, and cytosine. The building block of DNA is called the nucleotide, which is composed of a nitrogenous base (adenine, guanine, cytosine, or thymine), a five-carbon sugar (deoxyribose in DNA), … and one to three phosphate groups. + 16 others found this useful. Kenneth Huynh.
1 The four basic categories of molecules for building life are carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, and nucleic acids. 2  Carbohydrates serve many purposes, from energy to structure to chemical communication, as monomers or polymers. Amino acids are the building blocks of proteins. A few amino acids strung together is called a peptide, while many many peptides linked together form a polypeptide. When many amino acids strung together interact with each other to form a properly folded molecule, we call that molecule a protein.
Nucleic acids are made of carbon, oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen and phosphate. The basic building blocks of nucleic acids are nucleotides. Each nucleotide has three basic parts: a nitrogenous base, phosphate group and a sugar. There are two types of nucleic acids, DNA and RNA. DNA is long, linear double strand molecule; RNA is shorter and single strand. DNA and RNA are genetic material, carrying all the codes for the functioning of the cell.
Nucleotides Nucleotides are the monomers, building blocks, of nucleic acids (DNA and RNA). Each nucleotide includes three components: a phosphate, a sugar, and a nitrogenous b … ase. The building block of DNA is called the nucleotide, which is composed of a nitrogenous base (adenine, guanine, cytosine, or thymine), a five-carbon sugar (deoxyribose in DNA), … and one to three phosphate groups. + 16 others found this useful. Kenneth Huynh.
The phosphate is the same in DNA and RNA, but the sugar can be a ribose (for RNA) or a deoxyribose (for DNA). The latter is a ribose without de- one oxygen -oxy-. There are four available nitrogenous bases in a DNA's nucleotides: adenine, thymine, guanine, and cytosine. RNA nucleotides feature the same bases with the exception of uracil, which replaces thymine.