Senior must be sixty (60) years of age. NOTE 1: West Covina's senior are allowed to license an altered pet at the senior rate (limited to one (1) per household.) NOTE 2: West Covina -- Dog penalties same as license fees, except senior citizen penalty is half of license fee. Late fee for Cat is $20
When your dog turns three months old during a registration year, you will pay for the remaining complete months in the registration year, up to 30 June. If you're moving to New Zealand and your dog is older than three months when it arrives, you will pay from the month after the dog arrives. Dog registration fees. You can use our Dog fee calculator to find out how much it will cost to register your dog for this year, to 30 June 2016. 1  Lowering your registration fee. 2  How we work out fees. 3  What your registration fees pay for.
Failing to register your dog. Keeping an unregistered dog is an offence against the Dog Control Act 1996. Failing to register your dog before or during the month of July will result in a penalty fee being added to its annual fee. Any three-month-old pup not registered within 30 days will also result in a penalty fee. The infringement fee for this offence is fixed at $300.00 plus the registration fee. New registration. To register a new dog, you will need to complete a Dog Registration Application form by one of two methods: 1  Phone us Monday-Friday 8am - 6pm, Saturday-Sunday 9am- 5pm. 2  We will take your details and complete the application form with you over the phon
** The Dog Control Act 1996 allows a late fee of no more than 50% to be charged by Councils. This fee is in addition to the appropriate registration and will result in the owner not qualifying for the Responsible Owner Scheme for two years. *** Infringement fees are set by Statute. 
Forms & applications. Dog registration application. Use this application to register your dog. Downloads: Dog registration application (0.17mb) - Dog registration schedule of fees (0.17mb). Dog registration-change of details. Complete this form if there has been a change in details for the registration of your dog. 
Dog licenses are issued by the Animal services program. Dog owners must show proof that their pets have had rabies and distemper shots and renew their dog’s license each year. Get more information about licensing requirements, fees, and procedures below. The DC Code 8-1804 reads as follows: (a) An owner who has a dog over the age of four months shall before July 1st of each year, or within 10 days of acquiring the dog, or within 10 days after the dog becomes four months of age, obtain an annual license. An owner shall ensure that his dog wears a collar and a license
1 ePetLicensing.com® charges a $2.00 per license convenience and processing fee to use the PA Dog License® On-line service. 2  This fee is separate from the primary obligation of the dog license fee you are paying the county. 1 . Over 540+ pets are still missing and are listed on our FREE web site www.palostpet.com. 2  ePetLicensing.com® charges a $2.00 per license convenience and processing fee to use the PA Dog License® On-line service. 3
The maximum dog registration fee for the Adelaide City Council area is set at $72, which will be used to subsidise a range of dog management services. Dog registrations must be renewed by 31 August each year. A late fee of $20 may be applied if not paid by the due date. 