This site contains a comprehensive list of U.S. military terms and definitions. abort — (*) 1. To terminate a mission for any reason other than enemy action. It mayoccur at any point after the beginning of the mission and prior to its completion. Also called AV. (JP 3-35). assign — (*) 1. To place units or personnel in an organization where such placement isrelatively permanent, and/or where such organization controls and administers the unitsor personnel for the primary function, or greater portion of the functions, of the unit orpersonnel.
9. The news has been filled lately with the tensions between Russia and the rest of the world. With Russia positioning its troops in the Crimea section of Ukraine and threatening to invade Eastern Ukraine, many have begun to talk in cold war terms and speak of a renewed military conflict between the US and Russia. 
These sizes (and sometimes names) will vary not only from country to country, but also by the nature of the unit and its particular circumstances. The numbers given for men in each unit is more representative of infantry units than armoured units. The table below is an attempt to summarise the relationships between and the sizes of various military units. 
(U.S. Marine Corps) Refers to Marine Corps haircut-zero inches on the sides and three inches on the top. zero trade. (Canada) Combat arms or combat troops. The Military Occupation Code for personnel in combat zones (infantry, artillery, armored, combat engineers, and linemen) begin with zero. Some of these terms have been considered gregarious to varying degrees and attempts have been made to eliminate them. For the purposes of this article, military slang includes slang used by any English-speaking armed forces (armies, navies, air forces).
Appendix:Glossary of military slang. Definition from Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Military slang is a set of colloquial terms which are unique to or which originated with military personal. They are often abbreviations or derivatives of the NATO Phonetic Alphabet, or otherwise incorporating aspects of formal military concepts and terms. Some of these terms have been considered gregarious to varying degrees and attempts have been made to eliminate them. For the purposes of this article, military slang includes slang used by any English-speaking armed forces (armies, navies, air forces).
Military organization or military organisation is the structuring of the armed forces of a state so as to offer military capability required by the national defense policy. In some countries paramilitary forces are included in a nation's armed forces, though not considered military. However, in the beginning many units were greatly underpowered and their size was actually one level below on the ladder that is usually used elsewhere; for example, a division in the early-WWII Red Army would have been about the size of most nations' regiments or brigades.
Unit Size (US Army in the late-20th Century) Size, composition, and leadership of military units varies with time, place, and circumstances. The composition of fully authorized units (reflected in this table) will vary, especially during in periods of active engagement. Use this as a general guide for the late-20th century US Army. The composition of foreign military units may deviate considerably from US practices.
What is the military? In simple terms, the U.S. Armed Forces are made up of the five armed service branches: Air Force, Army, Coast Guard, Marine Corps, and Navy. The President of the United States is the Commander in Chief, who is responsible for all final decisions. The Secretary of the Department of Defense (DoD) has control over the military and each branch-except the Coast Guard, which is under the Dept. of Homeland Security.
A company is a military unit, typically consisting of 80–250 soldiers and usually commanded by a major. The modern military unit “company” became popularized during the reorganization of the Swedish Army in 1631 under King Gustav II Adolph. For administrative purposes, the infantry was divided into companies consisting of 150 men, grouped into regiments of eight companies.