Uses of This Medicine. Morphine injection is used to relieve moderate to severe pain. It may also be used before or during surgery with an anesthetic (medicine that puts you to sleep). Morphine belongs to the group of medicines called narcotic analgesics (pain medicines). It acts on the central nervous system (CNS) to relieve pain. 
Strong opioids are medicines used to treat severe or long-term (chronic) pain. Although there are many types of strong opioids (sometimes called opiates), morphine is the most commonly used. It works on your nervous system and brain to reduce the way you feel pain. Morphine can be taken as a liquid by mouth, as quick-acting tablets, or as slow-release tablets and capsules. Morphine is prescribed to treat severe pain. You may be prescribed morphine to take regularly, or only when it is needed for pain relief. Make sure you know which is right for you. The most common side-effects are constipation, drowsiness and feeling sick.
Opiates are a type of analgesic given to relieve pain. When used during childbirth, opiates are considered the first option after natural methods for pain relief such as labor in water, deep breathing, and massage. 
Type of pain: Morphine is not effective for all types of pain. For instance, if the pain is from nerve damage (called neuropathic pain), morphine would not be a good choice. There are other pain medications that should be used if morphine isn’t appropriate. Definition: Morphine is a narcotic (opoid) that’s used to control pain and to help with difficult breathing. To get morphine, you need a doctor’s prescription. Morphine is considered the “Gold Standard” for 3 main reasons: • It’s very effective and works quickly. • It can be administered by many routes.
Best Answer: morphine and derivates are commonly used in severe pain management, like bone involvement in cancers.. and its generally effective on any kind of pain since it has affect on nerves. if it doesnt touch your pains it may be not in appropriate dose.. or your pains can be on inflamatory base.. My doctor (pain managemt) has been perscribing morphine for me. It does not touch the pain. I was just wandering if there are certain types of pain that... show more I have been insevere pain for over 2 1/2 years. The doctors have not as yet been able to diagnose what is wrong with me, given my other symtems as well.
Morphine is primarily used to treat both acute and chronic severe pain. It is also used for pain due to myocardial infarction and for labor pains. However, concerns exist that morphine may increase mortality in the setting of non ST elevation myocardial infarction. The primary source of morphine is isolation from poppy straw of the opium poppy. In 2013 an estimated 523,000 kilograms of morphine were produced. About 45,000 kilograms were used directly for pain, an increase over the last twenty years of four times.
What morphine is. Morphine is a type of painkiller called an opioid. Opioids are strong drugs similar to natural pain killing substances made in our body called endorphins. Opioid drugs were originally made from opium poppies and can now be man made in the laboratory. 
Morphine acts on the central nervous system (CNS) to relieve pain. Morphine extended-release capsules or tablets should not be used if you need pain medicine for just a short time, such as when recovering from surgery. Do not use this medicine to relieve mild pain, or in situations when non-narcotic medication is effective. 
Morphine, sold under many trade names, is a pain medication of the opiate type. It acts directly on the central nervous system (CNS) to decrease the feeling of pain. It can be used for both acute pain and chronic pain. Morphine is also frequently used for pain from myocardial infarction and during labour. It can be administered orally, intramuscularly, subcutaneously, intravenously, into the space around the spinal cord, or rectally. The primary source of morphine is isolation from poppy straw of the opium poppy. In 2013 an estimated 523,000 kilograms of morphine were produced. About 45,000 kilograms were used directly for pain, an increase over the last twenty years of four times.
For pain control, morphine is used both for short-term pain (such as after a surgery) and for long-term pain. Morphine comes in several different forms, reflecting the many different ways the drug can be used. Short-acting tablets or oral solution are the most useful for treating temporary pain or breakthrough pain (occasional pain that occurs despite treatment with longer-acting pain medications).