A Qantas 707 casually parked in Travolta's backyard: One of the first planes added to John Travolta's planes. He flew this aircraft to Sydney when promoting his film Swordfish in 2001 with Hugh Jackman. 
That is because he is a certified pilot. John Travolta’s home in Florida has a functional airport with two runways for his private planes. The reason behind this strange fact or “quirk of culture” is that John is not just an actor but a certified pilot. He is the owner of about half a dozen aircrafts. 
Best Answer: He has owed 5 aircraft, but the current Travolta fleet is less than that. Johns old QANTAS 707, N707JT is registered to his Delaware Corporation JETT CLIPPER JOHNNY LLC (and as of yesterday was still sitting at LAX). Currently, there are no other aircraft registered to that LLC but he does have at least one other parked at his Jumbolair home-a Gulfstream II. According to the ERAU press release, at the time he owned a GII and a 707 (Jet Clipper Ella), so before the donation that would have made three aircraft in the Travolta fleet.
Getty Images. John Travolta added to his ever-growing fleet of personal aircraft this week when he became the Business Aircraft Brand Ambassador for Bombardier. The actor bought a Bombardier Challenger 601 jet, making it the 11th aircraft in his fleet
One yardstick for pilots is the number of aircraft types they can fly, and Travolta’s list impresses. He holds 11 jet type ratings, for everything from small military aircraft to the Boeing 707. Flying is oxygen to Travolta, who once said that his acting funded his passion for aviation. He earned his private pilot’s license at age 22 and today owns several aircraft, including a Boeing 707-138 that was previously part of Qantas Airways’ fleet.
Inside John Travolta's Plane. John Travolta, apart from being a great actor, is a pilot with a life long passion for aviation. Since earning his wings in 1974, he has logged close to an astounding 5,000 flying hours. Literally every cent of his first paychecks went to flying lessons. John Travolta recently purchased (in 2011) a Bombardier Challenger 601 jet that he and his family will use to travel around the globe, much to the pleasure of his wife and kids.
Actor John Travolta's big 707 aircraft was brought to the Commercial Jet repair facility at Miami International Airport. The avid pilot’s lawyers say he was to be charged about $500,000 for the work – but that turned into a bill over $2 million, and 17 months later the work still wasn't done. Actor John Travolta brought his big 707 plane to the Commercial Jet repair facility at Miami International Airport – and only got it back after a legal battle.
Today Australia John Travolta in the backyard of his Florida home during an interview with Australia's Today.. John Travolta is a certified private pilot who owns five aircraft, so it's only fitting that the 60-year-old actor's Florida home has two runways that lead directly to his front door. CANB/Today Travolta also keeps a Challenger jet parked in his backyard: CANB/Today Now I've made a profession out of flying in addition to acting, and at my age I'm glad I did, because it's something to do when you're not working, Travolta told Today.. But the actor also flies his own planes for work.