Gliosarcoma is one of the many types of brain tumor affecting people from all over the world. Know all about the causes, symptoms and possible treatment options of the condition. This is a hereditary disorder. The genetic structure of sufferers is often believed to be mainly responsible for this clinical condition. Missing or mutated genes lead to this abnormality in brain cells. The abnormal cells eventually form tumor by multiplying many times.
Astrocytomas and oligodendrogliomas are very common primary tumors of the adult brain. Both tumors are called gliomas, which is a more general term referring to tumors that arise from cells of the brain itself rather than traveling, or metastasizing, to the brain from another location in the body. -Swelling of the ankles and legs, particularly if the swelling is worse in one leg than in the other. This may indicate the presence of a blood clot in the large veins of the legs (this is called deep venous thrombosis, or DVT). The risk of DVT is quite high in patients with brain tumors.
The diagnosis of gliosarcoma is based on a biphasic tissue pattern composed of two distinct malignant cell populations, one component being gliomatous (fulfilling the criteria for glioblastoma) and the other with malignant mesenchymal differentiation (fulfilling the criteria for being a sarcoma). Although one component of gliosarcoma is clearly of astrocytic origin the histogenesis of the sarcomatous component is still controversial. Feign et al in 1955 described gliosarcoma as glioblastoma in which the proliferating tumor vessels acquired features of a sarcoma.
These Web pages are updated as the Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center receives questions and as new information becomes available. If you don’t see many information resources on this page, it may be because the Information Center hasn’t yet received a question about this condition. 
Gliosarcoma Prevention. There is no known way of preventing the occurrence of the inherited form of the cancerous tumor as the exact causes that trigger the genetic mutation leading to the cell abnormality are unknown. Scientists are carrying out various researches and tests to find out whether it can be prevented. This is a hereditary disorder. The genetic structure of sufferers is often believed to be mainly responsible for this clinical condition. Missing or mutated genes lead to this abnormality in brain cells. The abnormal cells eventually form tumor by multiplying many times.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Gliosarcoma is a rare type of glioma, a cancer of the brain that comes from glial, or supportive, brain cells, as opposed to the neural brain cells. Gliosarcoma is a malignant cancer, and is defined as a glioblastoma consisting of gliomatous and sarcomatous components.
The diagnosis of gliosarcoma is based on a biphasic tissue pattern composed of two distinct malignant cell populations, one component being gliomatous (fulfilling the criteria for glioblastoma) and the other with malignant mesenchymal differentiation (fulfilling the criteria for being a sarcoma). Although one component of gliosarcoma is clearly of astrocytic origin the histogenesis of the sarcomatous component is still controversial. Feign et al in 1955 described gliosarcoma as glioblastoma in which the proliferating tumor vessels acquired features of a sarcoma (3).
Gliosarcoma or GS is a very rare form of glioma, a type of brain cancer which occurs from the glial brain cells instead of the neural brain cells. This malignant cancer is defined to be a Glioblastoma comprising of sarcomatous and gliomatous components. This is a hereditary disorder. The genetic structure of sufferers is often believed to be mainly responsible for this clinical condition. Missing or mutated genes lead to this abnormality in brain cells. The abnormal cells eventually form tumor by multiplying many times.
Gliosarcoma. Etiology: It is thought that the sarcomatous changes may arise from fibroblasts of the blood vessels. Gross: The glioblastoma part of the tumor forms heterogeneous infiltrative areas with hemorrhage and necrosis. The sarcomatous portion produces a firm and more discrete mass. Microscopic: Gliosarcoma is a variant of glioblastoma multiforme with a biphasic pattern. Although one component of gliosarcoma is clearly of astrocytic origin the histogenesis of the sarcomatous component is still controversial. Feign et al in 1955 described gliosarcoma as glioblastoma in which the proliferating tumor vessels acquired features of a sarcoma.