Phosphate salts containing sodium, potassium, aluminum, or calcium are LIKELY SAFE for most people when taken by mouth short-term, when sodium phosphate is inserted into the rectum appropriately and short-term, or when potassium phosphate is used intravenously (by IV) under the supervision of a physician.
Potassium salt is often used as a substitute for regular sodium chloride salt (the salt you find on your kitchen table), and for good reason. Most people in the United States take in too much salt on a daily basis, which may put them at risk for hypertension, heart attacks and strokes.
1 Potassium chloride is used to stop the heart. 2  This is used for heart surgery (where the heart is stopped and re-started) and lethal injections. 3  Rochelle salt, which contains potassium, is the main component in baking powder. 4  It is also used to coat glass with silver.
Potassium is a mineral that plays many critical roles in the body. Food sources of potassium include fruits (especially dried fruits), cereals, beans, milk, and vegetables. Potassium is used for treating and preventing low potassium levels. It is also used to treat high blood pressure and prevent stroke.
The Diamond Crystal 40 lb. Potassium Chloride Water Softening Pellets are a sodium substitute for use in most water softeners. They have a low insolubility with up to 99.1% purity of the salt.
Sodium bisulfate is a salt which is used widely with potassium dichromate in bleach used for photographic purposes. It is a skin irritant and must be used with caution. If skin is exposed, wash with running water for 15 minutes. It is poison, so if ingested do not induce vomiting but seek immediate medical attention.
The greatest demand for potassium compounds is in fertilisers. Many other potassium salts are of great importance, including the nitrate, carbonate, chloride, bromide, cyanide and sulfate. Potassium carbonate is used in the manufacture of glass. Potassium hydroxide is used to make detergent and liquid soap. Potassium chloride is used in pharmaceuticals and saline drips.
Table salt and foods rich in iodine do not contain enough iodine to block radioactive iodine from getting into your thyroid gland. Do not use table salt or food as a substitute for KI. Do not use dietary supplements that contain iodine in the place of KI (potassium iodide).