Related Terms: Dot-coms. Retailers are business firms engaged in offering goods and services directly to consumers. In most—but not all—cases, retail outlets are primarily concerned with selling merchandise. Typically, such businesses sell individual units or small groupings of products to large numbers of customers. 1 Discount Stores—These retail outlets offer consumers a trade-off: lower prices (typically on a broad range of products) in exchange for lower levels of service. 2  Indeed, many discount stores operate under a basic self-service philosophy.
The buying of goods for resale is a characteristic of retail trade establishments that particularly distinguishes them from establishments in the agriculture, manufacturing, and construction industries. In addition to retailing merchandise, some types of store retailers are also engaged in the provision of after-sales services, such as repair and installation. For example, new automobile dealers, electronic and appliance stores, and musical instrument and supply stores often provide repair services.
Definition: NAICS 44-45, Retail Trade. The Retail Trade sector comprises establishments engaged in retailing merchandise, generally without transformation, and rendering services incidental to the sale of merchandise. 
The retail trade sector is part of the trade, transportation, and utilities supersector. The Retail Trade sector comprises establishments engaged in retailing merchandise, generally without transformation, and rendering services incidental to the sale of merchandise. 
Definition: Retail trade is defined in the International Standard Industrial Classification (ISIC) as the re-sale (sale without transformation) of new and used goods to the general public, for personal or household consumption or utilisation. 
The Retail Trade sector comprises establishments engaged in retailing merchandise, generally without transformation, and rendering services incidental to the sale of merchandise. In addition to retailing merchandise, some types of store retailers are also engaged in the provision of after-sales services, such as repair and installation. For example, new automobile dealers, electronic and appliance stores, and musical instrument and supply stores often provide repair services.
Retail Trade. a component of domestic trade and the concluding phase of the circulation of personal consumption, in which goods and services are sold in exchange for the monetary income of the population. The retail trade system also includes the kolkhoz trade. In the cities, retail trade is carried on primarily by special state trade organizations of the ministries of trade of the USSR and the Union republics, and in the countryside, by the consumer cooperatives.
Identification. The retail trade is a part of the larger wholesale and retail industry, according to the Small Business Notes website. Unlike the wholesale portion of the industry, the retail trade is generally engaged in the sale of goods to the general public and not to other businesses. The OECD Glossary of Statistical Terms reports the retail trade is the resale of new and used goods to the general public. Businesses involved in the retail trade generally sell goods for personal and household use. 1  What Is the Meaning of Retailing? 2  What Are the Different Types of Retail Stores?
Retail trade is widely known as a very competitive area of commercial endeavor, and observers note that many fledgling retail establishments do not survive for more than a few years. Indeed, competition for sales has become so great that consumers have seen a marked blurring of product lines among retailers. 1 Discount Stores—These retail outlets offer consumers a trade-off: lower prices (typically on a broad range of products) in exchange for lower levels of service. 2  Indeed, many discount stores operate under a basic self-service philosophy.