Uses of This Medicine. Clomiphene is used as a fertility medicine in some women who are unable to become pregnant. Clomiphene probably works by changing the hormone balance of the body. In women, this causes ovulation to occur and prepares the body for pregnancy. 
Not to be confused with clonidine or Klonopin. Clomifene (INN) or clomiphene (USAN) (trademarked as Androxal, Clomid and Omifin, citrate salt Serophene) is a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) that has become the most widely prescribed drug for ovulation induction to reverse anovulation or oligoovulation. 
Clomid (Clomiphene Citrate). (Clomiphene Citrate). Clomid (Clomiphene Citrate) is a powerfully effective anti-estrogen officially classified as a Selective Estrogen Receptor Modulator (SERM). In many ways, it is very similar to another popular SERM in Nolvadex (Tamoxifen Citrate). When it comes to the possible side effects of Clomid, we will find most are fairly rare. Some women who have used the SERM as a fertility aid have experienced ovarian enlargement, but again this is very rare. Other possible side effects of Clomid use include: 1  Headaches. 2  Nausea. 3  Hot Flashes.
History. Clomid, or Clomiphene Citrate, is a SERM (selective estrogen receptor modulator), so it’s in the same grouping as tamoxifen (nolvadex) . It is the most widely prescribed drug for ovulation induction, which is useful for those who are infertile. Unlike HCG (Human Chorionic Gonadotropin) , clomid does NOT mimic LH in the body. As a result, it does not cause testosterone to rise, thus suppressing LH and FSH levels in the body. This is why clomid makes sense to use in pct and hcg does NOT.
*Clomid Functions & Traits: Clomiphene Citrate is a SERM that is specifically used as a fertility aid due to its ability to enhance the release of gonadotropins. Clomid has the ability to oppose the negative feedback of estrogens on the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Ovarian-Axis. When it comes to the possible side effects of Clomid, we will find most are fairly rare. Some women who have used the SERM as a fertility aid have experienced ovarian enlargement, but again this is very rare. Other possible side effects of Clomid use include: 1  Headaches. 2  Nausea. 3  Hot Flashes.
Clomid and Treatment Costs. Clomid is not expensive and costs between about $10 and $100 per cycle depending on the dose and whether a brand name or generic clomiphene citrate is used. 1  The average cost for the Clomid pills for a cycle is about $40. PCOS and ovulation problems and Clomid treatment. Clomid (clomiphene citrate or Serophene) is an oral medication that is commonly used for the treatment of infertility. 1  It is often given to try to induce ovulation in women that do not develop and release an egg (ovulate) on their own.
Definition of CLOMIPHENE. : a synthetic drug C26H28ClNO used in the form of its citrate to induce ovulation. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Clomiphene citrate can help you get pregnant if: 1  You ovulate irregularly or not at all, especially if you have polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) . 2  You have unexplained infertility. Women taking clomiphene also have to go to the doctor's office frequently for monitoring. Here's how it works: 1  Taking the drug. 2  You take a clomiphene pill for five days at the start of your period. 3  This helps your body produce more follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), which makes the follicles grow.
Less common or rare. 1  Blurred vision; decreased or double vision or other vision problems; seeing flashes of light; sensitivity of eyes to light; yellow eyes or skin. 2  Other side effects may occur that usually do not need medical attention. Descriptions. Clomiphene is used as a fertility medicine in some women who are unable to become pregnant. Clomiphene probably works by changing the hormone balance of the body. In women, this causes ovulation to occur and prepares the body for pregnancy.