Food Dehydration: How to dry your own fruits, vegetables and other foods. Dehydrated foods have a number of advantages: Dehydration is a low-cost way to preserve food that is free from concerns about botulism, the dried foods require less storage space than canned goods, and there's no freezer to keep running. 
Other dehydration causes include: 1  Diarrhea, vomiting. 2  Severe, acute diarrhea — that is, diarrhea that comes on suddenly and violently — can cause a tremendous loss of water and electrolytes in a short amount of time. 3  If you have vomiting along with diarrhea, you lose even more fluids and minerals. 
Drying is a method of food preservation in which food is dried (dehydrated or desiccated). Drying inhibits the growth of bacteria, yeasts, and mold through the removal of water. Dehydration has been used widely for this purpose since ancient times; the earliest known practice is 12,000 B.C. by inhabitants of the modern Middle East and Asia regions.
Food drying, also called food dehydration, is the process of removing water from food, thus inhibiting the growth of microorganisms (enzymes) and bacteria by the circulation of hot, dry air through the food. 
Drying (dehydrating) food is one of the oldest and easiest methods of food preservation. Dehydration is the process of removing water or moisture from a food product. Removing moisture from foods makes them smaller and lighter. Sun drying is recommended for drying fruit only. Sun drying is not recommended in cloudy or humid weather. The temperature should reach 85°F by noon, and the humidity should be less than 60 percent. Outdoor dehydration can be difficult in Virginia and other southern states due to high humidity.
Even oily skin can experience dehydration. As mentioned, dehydration is a lack of water, not oil. This means sebaceous oil activity can still be normal or even overactive in dehydrated skin. Both dry and dehydrated skin can experience: 1  Irritation, inflammation, itchiness and sensitivity. by Dr. Diana Howard. Dry, dehydrated skin can be a temporary condition or a lifelong concern. Dry skin can be genetically determined or a product of an increasingly stressful lifestyle coupled with continual exposure to the sun, wind and chemicals in the environment.
Severe dehydration, a medical emergency, can cause: 1  Extreme thirst. 2  Extreme fussiness or sleepiness in infants and children; irritability and confusion in adults. 3  Very dry mouth, skin and mucous membranes. 4  Little or no urination — any urine that is produced will be darker than normal. 5  Sunken eyes. Mild to moderate dehydration is likely to cause: 1  Dry, sticky mouth. 2  Sleepiness or tiredness — children are likely to be less active than usual. 3  Thirst. 4  Decreased urine output. 5  No wet diapers for three hours for infants. 6  Few or no tears when crying. 7  Dry skin. 8  Headache. 9  Constipation. 10  Dizziness or lightheadedness.
Symptoms of dehydration include thirst, headache, general discomfort, loss of appetite, dry skin, decreased urine volume, confusion, unexplained tiredness, and irritability. Dehydration, also known as hypohydration, is not enough body water, with an accompanying disruption of metabolic processes.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Drying means to get rid of the free water in a given compound. For example: you would be drying your clothes. But dehydration means to get rid of ALL the water in a given compound. In example: You have a fresh lettuce leaf... You wash it and then you dry it... You'll have a lettuce leaf as it is. Then, you cook it (because you're nutz and like cooked lettuce for dinner), and have some black things like ashes.