Answers. Best Answer: In the US, ALL medical records may be destroyed after 7 years. Exceptions: Childrens files must be kept until they are adults. In the case of death files must be kept up until one year after death. There is a requirement by law as to how long they must be kept and then their is their own practise as to how long after that they keep them as useful records.
In California, where there is no statutory requirement, the California Medical Association recommends that medical records be retained indefinitely or for at least 25 years after the patient’s last visit. A: The Doctors Company recommends the following: 1  Billing records in all states should be retained for seven years according to Internal Revenue Service standards. 2  They may be kept in a separate file.
1 They may be kept in a separate file. 2  Telephone calls that pertain to medical care should be documented in the medical record and kept according to the above medical record retention guidelines. 3  Appointment books may be kept for one year. A: The Doctors Company recommends the following: 1  Billing records in all states should be retained for seven years according to Internal Revenue Service standards. 2 
§ 563.6. Preservation of medical records. (a) The facility shall have a written policy regarding the retention of records. Medical records whether original, reproductions or microfilm, shall be kept on file for a minimum of 7 years following the discharge of a patient. (b) If the patient is a minor, records shall be kept on file until his majority, and then, for 7 years or as long as the records of adult patients are maintained. (c) If an ASF discontinues operation, it shall make known to the Department where its records are stored. 
Medical Board and Medical Association Policies and Recommendations. When state or federal laws are silent on medical record retention, medical boards may be able to provide policies or recommendations on how long a physician should keep records. Medical Record Retention. A number of variables affect the length of time a physician should keep a medical record. Factors include state and federal laws, medical board and association policies, and the type of record (for example, that of an adult patient versus that of a pediatric patient).
It's a good idea to keep all your family's medical records in one place in your home. A 3 - ring binder or wire-bound notebook with dividers for each member of the family is helpful. It's a good idea to keep copies of your medical records. You'll need them if you change doctors, move, get sick when you're away from home, or end up in an emergency room. If any of these things happen and you have your records, you may get treatment more quickly, and it will be safer.
(1) A record must be made contemporaneously with the provision of the medical treatment or other medical service or as soon as practicable afterwards. (2) This clause may be complied with by the making of further entries in a single record that relates to the patient concerned. 10 How long records are to be kept. (1) A record must be kept for at least 7 years from the date of last entry in the record, unless the patient was less than 18 years old at the date of last entry in the record. 7 Records relating to patients. (1) A medical practitioner or medical corporation must, in accordance with this Part and Schedule 2, make and keep a record, or ensure that a record is made and kept, for each patient of the medical practitioner or medical. corporation
1 Billing records in all states should be retained for seven years according to Internal Revenue Service standards. 2  They may be kept in a separate file. 3  Telephone calls that pertain to medical care should be documented in the medical record and kept according to the above medical record retention guidelines. A: The Doctors Company recommends the following: 1 
· just now. Report Abuse. There is a requirement by law as to how long they must be kept and then their is their own practise as to how long after that they keep them as useful records. For example in Canada you might be required by law to keep them for 10 years and for children's records until after a time they age 21