Part of the Microprocessors glossary: CPU (central processing unit) is an older term for processor and microprocessor, the central unit in a computer containing the logic circuitry that performs the instructions of a computer's programs. This was last updated in April 2005. Posted by: Margaret Rouse.
Definition of CPU. : the component of a computer system that performs the basic operations (as processing data) of the system, that exchanges data with the system's memory or peripherals, and that manages the system's other components —called also processor. See cpu defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
The speed of a computer's processor is measured in megahertz, or cycles per second. But higher megahertz doesn't always mean better performance. Though a 600-MHz chip has a clock speed that is twice as fast as a 300-Mhz chip, it doesn't mean that the computer with the 600-Mhz chip will run twice as fast. This little chip is the heart of a computer. Also referred to as the microprocessor, the processor does all the computations such as adding, subtracting, multiplying, and dividing.
A central processing unit (CPU) is the electronic circuitry within a computer that carries out the instructions of a computer program by performing the basic arithmetic, logical, control and input/output (I/O) operations specified by the instructions. Traditionally, the term CPU refers to a processor, more specifically to its processing unit and control unit (CU), distinguishing these core elements of a computer from external components such as main memory and I/O circuitry.
Full Definition of PROCESSOR. 1. 2. a (1) : computer (2) : cpu b: a computer program (as a compiler) that puts another program into a form acceptable to the computer. 3. : food processor. See processor defined for English-language learners. See processor defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
The AMD Accelerated Processing Unit (APU), formerly known as Fusion, is a series of 64-bit microprocessors from AMD designed to act as a CPU and graphics accelerator (GPU) on a single chip. 
Part of the Microprocessors glossary: A processor is the logic circuitry that responds to and processes the basic instruction s that drive a computer. The term processor has generally replaced the term central processing unit (CPU). The processor in a personal computer or embedded in small devices is often called a microprocessor. - A quad-core processor is a chip with four independent units called cores that read and execute central processing unit (CPU) instructions such as add, move data, and branch.
Stands for Central Processing Unit.. The CPU is the primary component of a computer that processes instructions. It runs the operating system and applications, constantly receiving input from the user or active software programs. 
The central processor of a computer is also known as the CPU, or central processing unit.. This processor handles all the basic system instructions, such as processing mouse and keyboard input and running applications. 
Noun. 1. central processing unit - (computer science) the part of a computer (a microprocessor chip) that does most of the data processing; the CPU and the memory form the central part of a computer to which the peripherals are attached. C.P.U. , central processor, CPU, mainframe, processor