Turn off the heat, add the beans and soak the beans for about 2 hours. Drain the water. 2 Make the ham broth While the beans are soaking in step 1, put the ham shanks or ham hocks in a separate large pot and cover them with 2 quarts of water. Add the herbes de Provence or Italian seasoning.
Soup beans are usually served with cornbread, greens (such as boiled cabbage, cauliflower, or sauerkraut and sausage), and potatoes (stewed or fried) and may be topped with raw chopped onions or ramps (Allium tricoccum). Soup beans are considered a main course, but also serve as a side dish. 1 Black-eyed peas — While these peas are almost never referred to as soup beans, the preparation in the Appalachian region is almost identical. 2  Black-eyed Peas, sometimes called blackeye peas, are most common where Appalachian culture intersects with lowland soul-food and coastal food cultures.
1 Place rinsed beans into a large stock pot. 2  Add water and bring to a boil. 3  Boil gently for 2 minutes; remove from heat, cover and let stand for 1 hour. 4  Add ham bone, cubed ham, onion, salt, pepper and bay leaves. 5  Bring to a boil; reduce heat, cover and simmer for 1 hour and 15 minutes or until beans are soft. 1 Bring to a boil; reduce heat, cover and simmer for 1 hour and 15 minutes or until beans are soft. 2  Occasionally skim service of soup while it is cooking. 3  Add carrots and celery, cook until tender.
Bring beans to a boil and then cover your beans reduce heat to simmer. While beans are simmering chop your ham into small chunks. Do not throw out the bones; you will be putting the bones in your soup as well. 1 pound of ham is really just an estimate, you can add as much or as little ham as you like. The next day drain water from beans, keeping the beans in the stock pot. Cover beans again with some more water. You want enough water to just cover the beans leaving only about a half inch of water above the beans. You can always add water later if your soup beans get too thick.
Up here, in the mountains of the south, we know that soup beans and bean soup are not the same thing. Soup beans is a term common in the Southern United States, particularly the regions around the Appalachian Mountains. It refers to pinto or other brown dried beans cooked with smoked pork as flavoring. 1 Follow directions on bean bag for presoaking the beans. 2  Drain and rinse beans, sit aside. 3  In the pan melt butter (or bacon grease) over medium heat. 4  Cook onions and garlic until soft and lightly brown. 5  Add beans, ham hock, and water to pressure cooker.
While soup beans are traditionally pinto beans (called brown beans in the mountain region), other types of beans are also used. 1 Black-eyed peas — While these peas are almost never referred to as soup beans, the preparation in the Appalachian region is almost identical. 2  Black-eyed Peas, sometimes called blackeye peas, are most common where Appalachian culture intersects with lowland soul-food and coastal food cultures.
A pot of bean soup made from scratch with navy beans and a big smoked ham bone is made in the pressure cooker. This favorite family recipe is flavored with molasses, brown sugar, and spices, and finished up with some cooked shell pasta to make a meal in a bowl. 1 Add the salt and the beans and remove from heat. 2  Let beans sit in the hot water for at least 60 minutes. 3  After the 60 minutes of soaking, return the pot to high heat and place the ham bone, carrots, celery, onion, garlic, mustard and bay leaves in the pot.
1 Add ham bone, cubed ham, onion, salt, pepper and bay leaves. 2  Bring to a boil; reduce heat, cover and simmer for 1 hour and 15 minutes or until beans are soft. 3  Occasionally skim service of soup while it is cooking. 4  Add carrots and celery, cook until tender. 1 Bring to a boil; reduce heat, cover and simmer for 1 hour and 15 minutes or until beans are soft. 2  Occasionally skim service of soup while it is cooking. 3
Soup beans is a term common in the Southern United States, particularly the regions around the Appalachian Mountains. 1 Black-eyed peas — While these peas are almost never referred to as soup beans, the preparation in the Appalachian region is almost identical. 2  Black-eyed Peas, sometimes called blackeye peas, are most common where Appalachian culture intersects with lowland soul-food and coastal food cultures.
1 Add water and bring to a boil. 2  Boil gently for 2 minutes; remove from heat, cover and let stand for 1 hour. 3  Add ham bone, cubed ham, onion, salt, pepper and bay leaves. 4  Bring to a boil; reduce heat, cover and simmer for 1 hour and 15 minutes or until beans are soft. 5  Occasionally skim service of soup while it is cooking. 1 Bring to a boil; reduce heat, cover and simmer for 1 hour and 15 minutes or until beans are soft. 2  Occasionally skim service of soup while it is cooking. 3  Add carrots and celery, cook until tender.