Synonyms: epicardium; visceral pericardium. Hypernyms (visceral pericardium is a kind of...): serosa; serous membrane (a thin membrane lining the closed cavities of the body; has two layers with a space between that is filled with serous fluid). Holonyms (visceral pericardium is a part of...): The noun VISCERAL PERICARDIUM has 1 sense: 1. the innermost of the two layers of the pericardium. Familiarity information: VISCERAL PERICARDIUM used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details.
visceral layer. Definitions: 1. the inner layer of an enveloping sac or bursa that lines the outer surface of the enveloped structure, as opposed to the parietal layer that lines the walls of the occupied space or cavity. The visceral layer is usually thin, delicate, and not apparently separate, but instead seems to be the outer surface of the structure itself. Synonyms: lamina visceralis. The definition information for visceral layer is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here
the inner layer of an enveloping sac or bursa that lines the outer surface of the enveloped structure, as opposed to the parietal layer that lines the walls of the occupied space or cavity. The visceral layer is usually thin, delicate, and not apparent as being separate, but rather appears to be the outer surface of the structure itself. Synonym(s): lamina visceralis [TA] .
Visceral: Referring to the viscera, the internal organs of the body, specifically those within the chest (as the heart or lungs) or abdomen (as the liver, pancreas or intestines). In a figurative sense, something visceral is felt deep down.. It is a gut feeling.. 
The visceral layer is usually thin, delicate, and not apparently separate, but instead seems to be the outer surface of the structure itself. See also: serosa. The visceral layer is usually thin, delicate, and not apparent as being separate, but rather appears to be the outer surface of the structure itself. Synonym(s): lamina visceralis [TA] .
Best Answer: The pericardium or the sac that sorrounds the heart is made of 2 layer. The outer is Fibrous pericardium. and the inner is Serous pericardium. The Serous Pericardium is made of two other layers: the Parietal peri.. and the VISCERAL peri.. . parietal pericardium is attached to the fibrous pericardium. Visceral pericardium is attached to the surface of heart and myocard of it. Another name of visceral pericardium is Endocard. The word pericardium means around the heart. The outer layer of the pericardium is called the parietal pericardium. The inner part of the pericardium that closely envelops the heart (the visceral pericardium) is also called the epicardium. Akshav 路 9 years ago.
vis路cer路al lay路er. The inner layer of an enveloping sac or bursa, which covers the outer surface of the enveloped structure, as opposed to the parietal layer, which lines the walls of the occupied space or cavity. The visceral layer is usually thin, delicate, and not apparent as being separate, but rather appears to be the outer surface of the structure itself. Synonym(s): lamina visceralis [TA] .