Target area of interest-definition of target area of interest by The Free Dictionary. Engagement areas plan for the use of all available weapons; target areas of interest might be engaged by a single weapon. Also called TAI. See also area of interest; high-value target; target.
Not all target areas of interest will form part of the friendly course of action; only target areas of interest associated with high priority targets are of interest to the staff. These are identified during staff planning and wargaming. Target areas of interest differ from engagement areas in degree. Engagement areas plan for the use of all available weapons; target areas of interest might be engaged by a single weapon. Also called TAI. See also area of interest; high-value target; target.
In the above step, we have specified ledger group ‘0L’ as target ledger group for master depreciation area 01 that means asset values of depreciation area 01 will be updated in leading ledger ‘0L’ in General Ledger Accounting. The ledger group which we assign to master area must contain leading ledger. Notice that ledger group X1 has assigned in both depreciation area 30, which is for parallel valuation and depreciation area 55 which is delta depreciation area for area 30 to post the difference between area 1 and 30.
The phrase a demographic is a slang term that refers to demographic segmentation, one of the common strategies companies use to segment markets. A target market is a specific group of customers selected as the target of a given ad campaign. A target market is derived from possible market segments identified during the market segmentation process. Target Market. A number of factors are considered in selecting the ideal target market for a given campaign. In general, the goal is to go after the market that offers the best current or long-term profit potential.
An area target would be one that would cover a general area and not need to have pinpoint accuracy to hit such as a squad of soldiers. For example, a sniper takes aim at a point target. Depending on the distance from the target, wind speed and accuracy of the shooter, you will either hit in the general area of the target or a specific point of aim. Thus, the area and point difference.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Point and area targets. When you aim your weapon it is at a target. Depending on the distance from the target, wind speed and accuracy of the shooter, you will either hit in the general area of the target or a specific point of aim. Thus, the area and point difference. So the closer the target and the better the shooter, you will hit the point at which you aiming rather than just spraying bullets in the area that you are hoping to hi
The Patient Target provides Service Area Competition (SAC) applicants with the number of patients that have been served in the service area plus those a grantee has committed to serve through recently-awarded HRSA funding within the timeframe of the SAC measurement period. Using this same three-year UDS average as the base for all FY 2015 – 2017 SAC Patient Targets provides a standard way to build Patient Targets for all service areas, without inadvertently including progress toward new patient projections that were included in the Patient Target. 3.
Defining Your Target Population. Home ›. For example, a target population could be all of the people in an organization's local community, everyone in the state, or people living at or below the poverty level within a given community.
Engagement areas plan for the use of all available weapons; target areas of interest might be engaged by a single weapon. Also called TAI. See also area of interest; high-value target; target. Not all target areas of interest will form part of the friendly course of action; only target areas of interest associated with high priority targets are of interest to the staff. These are identified during staff planning and wargaming.
1 Search for Synonyms for target area of interest. 2  Quotes containing the term target area of interest. 3  Search for Phrases containing the term target area of interest. 4  Search for Abbreviations containing the term target area of interest. The geographical area where high-value targets can be acquired and engaged by friendly forces. Not all target areas of interest will form part of the friendly course of action; only target areas of interest associated with high priority targets are of interest to the staff. These are identified during staff planning and wargaming.