Returning to work ■ If you have been off work for a long time, an informal visit during lunchtime or coffee breaks can help you catch up. ■ Your employer or manager will want to welcome you back and check how you are feeling. Use this opportunity to discuss your return to work plan and any problems you have.
Second, you must have worked for the employer for at least 1250 hours in the 12 months before you take leave. That works out to an average of about 24 hours per week over the course of a year. Lastly, you must work at a location where the employer has at least 50 employees within 75 miles of your worksite.
There is also no law that says you must have nights or weekends off work. If you are over 18, your boss can require you to work any hours, any day of the week. Most workers have the right to at least one day off (24 hours in a row) per week, but this is not always the case. There is no law that says your boss must provide paid vacation, sick, or holiday leave.
With TB infection: You cannot pass TB germs to other people. You can go to work and school. You will need to stay on medicine so you don’t get TB disease. You will need to stay on the TB medicine for 3, 6, or 9 months, depending on what your doctor thinks is best for you. With TB disease: You will need to take TB medicine for at least 2 to 3 weeks before you can no longer spread TB germs to other people. Even if you start to feel better, you will need to stay on medicine to be cured. You will need to take several kinds of pills for at least 6 months.
7Treatment for TB infectionTreatment for TB infection: TB infection and TB disease are not treated the same way. If you have TB infection, you will probably just take INH (Isoniazid) for 6 to 9 months, or you may take INH and Rifapentine (RPT) for 3 months. Together, you and your doctor will decide which medicine is right for you.
You meet the hours of work requirement if, during the 12 months prior to your need for leave, you have worked or been paid for at least 60% of your applicable monthly guarantee, and have worked or been paid for at least 504 hours, not including personal commute time, or time spent on vacation, medical or sick leave.