A. Lice are live, so a person exposed can have live lice relatively fast if the encounter was sufficient. Head to head activities, use of combs/brushes, sharing hats, all can transmit lice from one person to the next almost immediately. Nits are either unhatched eggs or the remnants of hatched egges. 
1 After each treatment, checking the hair and combing with a nit comb to remove nits and lice every 2–3 days may decrease the chance of self–reinfestation. 2  Continue to check for 2–3 weeks to be sure all lice and nits are gone. 1 Many flea combs made for cats and dogs are also effective. 2  After each treatment, checking the hair and combing with a nit comb to remove nits and lice every 2–3 days may decrease the chance of self–reinfestation. 3
The eggs hatch in about 8 or 9 days. The newly hatched louse (nymph) will suck blood for food and shed its skin (molt) three times as it develops into an adult over a 10-day period. The young lice and adults live their entire lives on the head, feeding on blood. The entire life cycle takes about 3 weeks. The eggs are glued to the hair shaft very close to the scalp. Head lice live only about 30 to 40 days. They die in 1 or 2 days when removed from the head, and eggs die soon after being removed from the warm scalp. Head lice do not wander about rugs, furniture, or school buses seeking a host
To survive, adult head lice must feed on blood. An adult head louse can live about 30 days on a person's head but will die within one or two days if it falls off a person. Adult female head lice are usually larger than males and can lay about six eggs each day. Back To Top. Adult louse claws. Although reliable data on how many people in the United States get head lice each year are not available, an estimated 6 million to 12 million infestations occur each year in the United States among children 3 to 11 years of age.
Adult head lice can survive up to two days away from the scalp, which is how they are transmitted by things like combs, brushes, and hats. During this whole life cycle, larvae and adult lice deposit their feces in the scalp, which eventually causes itching as the person develops an allergic reaction to the lice stool. 
If head lice show up again after you treat, it is usually because nits or newly hatched head lice were not removed. This happens often, because some of the lice are so small that they can only be seen under a microscope. Treating head lice is a long process that can take up to 21 days. To get rid of head lice, you must do two things: kill the live lice on the head, and remove all the nits (head lice eggs) from the hair. This involves three necessary treatment steps: 1  Careful combing of the hair (nit-picking). 2  Medications. 3  Treating the house.
Head lice. Head lice and their eggs (nits) can be seen on hair, the nape of the neck, and behind the ears. They can vary in color from white to brown to dark gray. The eggs are tiny round or oval shapes that are tightly attached to the hair near the scalp and do not slide up and down on the hair. 
Malathion is pediculicidal (kills live lice) and partially ovicidal (kills some lice eggs). A second treatment is recommended if live lice still are present 7–9 days after treatment. Malathion is intended for use on persons 6 years of age and older. Malathion can be irritating to the skin. 1 Many flea combs made for cats and dogs are also effective. 2  After each treatment, checking the hair and combing with a nit comb to remove nits and lice every 2–3 days may decrease the chance of self–reinfestation. 3  Continue to check for 2–3 weeks to be sure all lice and nits are gone.
One of the biggest causes of re-infestation is not getting the lice out of your environment. Lice will live up to 48 hours off your head, and nits will survive for up to 10 days on your sofa, your car seats, your bedding, etc. You must treat your head and your home environment to end a lice infestation in one day, and stop it from coming back. 