Edvard Munch created the four versions in various media. The National Gallery, Oslo, holds one of two painted versions (1893, shown here). The Munch Museum holds the other painted version (1910, see gallery, below) and a pastel version from 1893. These three versions have not traveled for years. The original German title given by Munch to his work was Der Schrei der Natur (The Scream of Nature). The Norwegian word skrik usually is translated as scream, but is cognate with the English shriek. Occasionally, the painting also has been called The Cry.
Edvard Munch was born in Norway in 1863, and was raised in Christiania (known as Oslo today). He was related to famous painters and artists in their own right, Jacob Munch (painter), and Peter Munch (historian). Only a few years after he was born, Edvard Munch's mother diet of tuberculosis in 1868, and he was raised by his father.
Materials Used. Munch painted some his works on canvas. In fact, when he lacked painting surfaces, Munch used his bedsheets as canvases for his paintings. Munch also painted on cardboard and wooden boards. The Norwegian artist used oil paints, but also other materials such as tempera, gouaches or waxed crayons. The painted version of The Scream is created in tempera and pastel on cardboard.
Edvard Munch was one of the most famous Norwegian artists, and he lived from 1863 to 1944. During his lifetime, he experienced a lot of deaths in his family, and the pain, anxiety and suffering is reflected in his artwork. Munch is best known for his work called The Scream, which he printed and painted. Munch also painted on cardboard and wooden boards. The Norwegian artist used oil paints, but also other materials such as tempera, gouaches or waxed crayons. The painted version of The Scream is created in tempera and pastel on cardboard.
Munch's palette is not extensive, though he was reasonably willing to introduce new materials, such as his use of a petroleum-based wax crayon in 1893, oil pastel-possibly as early as 1893 and certainly by 1910, and his use of cadmium red by 1927-1929. The two versions of The Scream studied here were found to include oil paints and oil paints thickened with beeswax and also oil crayons containing beeswax and Japan wax, as well as casein pastels, a paraffin wax crayon and at least one gum-bound paint.
The Scream (various media 1893-1910) - Edvard Munch-Painting Location: Oslo, Norway. The Norwegian painter Edvard Munch (1863-1944) did several versions of The Scream, an alter image for himself (more on this later), in oil, pastel,and litohgraph between 1893 and 1910. The Scream is one of the world's most recognizable works of art. It depicts a man in a private moment of anguished despair and anxiety, while the other people in the painting, perhaps his friends, seem blissfully unaware of the man's situation.
Father of Expressionism. The Norwegian artist Edvard Munch is regarded as a pioneer in the Expressionist movement in modern painting. At an early stage Munch was recognized in Germany and central Europe as one of the creators of a new epoch. 
Edvard Munch is best known as being a Norwegian born, expressionist painter, and printer. In the late 20th century, he played a great role in German expressionism, and the art form that later followed; namely because of the strong mental anguish that was displayed in many of the pieces that he created. He was related to famous painters and artists in their own right, Jacob Munch (painter), and Peter Munch (historian). Only a few years after he was born, Edvard Munch's mother diet of tuberculosis in 1868, and he was raised by his father.
The Scream painting by Edvard Munch is one of the most well-known pieces of artwork in history, appealing to a wide audience even today. There are actually four different original versions of The Scream that Edvard Much created using different art mediums including oil paints, tempera, and pastels. Most of Edvard Munch’s work relates to themes of sickness, isolation, fear and death. The Characteristic Techniques Used to Create The Scream. One early version of this scene was created by Edvard Munch on a cardboard surface, using tempera, oil paints, and pastels together.
The National Gallery in Oslo, Norway owns one of The Scream paintings, the Munch Museum holds the other “Scream” painting and one pastel, and another pastel is privately owned by Petter Olsen. Mr. Olsen is auctioning off his original “Scream” pastel artwork by Edvard Munch through Sotheby’s in New York on May 2, 2012. Most of Edvard Munch’s work relates to themes of sickness, isolation, fear and death. The Characteristic Techniques Used to Create The Scream. One early version of this scene was created by Edvard Munch on a cardboard surface, using tempera, oil paints, and pastels together.