As you may, or may not, already know, Type 2 Diabetes is the most common form of Diabetes that can actually be cured with a little bit of effort. It is also known as non-insulin dependent diabetes and it affects 90-95% of the entire 21 million person community who is unfortunate enough to have it. *Blurry vision. The vast difference between people with Type 1 diabetes as opposed to Type 2 is the fact that those people with Type 1 are resistant to insulin and are not able to produce it naturally....at all.
1 Type 2 diabetes (formerly called adult-onset or non-insulin-dependent diabetes) can develop at any age. 2  It most commonly becomes apparent during adulthood. 3  But type 2 diabetes in children is rising. 4  Type 2 diabetes accounts for the vast majority of people who have diabetes-90 to 95 out of 100 people. 1 Type 2 diabetes accounts for the vast majority of people who have diabetes-90 to 95 out of 100 people. 2  In type 2 diabetes, the body isn't able to use insulin the right way. 3  This is called insulin resistance. 4  As type 2 diabetes gets worse, the pancreas may make less and less insulin.
There are two main types of diabetes, type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes. These two diabetes types have several key differences, for instance the differences in cause, symptoms, characteristics, management, incidence, who it affects and what effects the disease has on the body. When blood glucose levels get too high (hyperglycemia) this can cause damage to the tiny blood vessels in the eyes, kidneys, heart and nervous system, which is why diabetes is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease, kidney disease, loss of vision and neurological conditions.
With type 2 diabetes, your body either resists the effects of insulin — a hormone that regulates the movement of sugar into your cells — or doesn’t produce enough insulin to maintain a normal glucose level. Untreated, type 2 diabetes can be life-threatening. Together, both types of diabetes affect about 24 million Americans. Diabetes is one of the biggest drivers of U.S. health care costs, with 1 out of 3 Medicare dollars spent on diabetes-related care. In partnership with the University of Minnesota, Mayo has launched a decade-long research effort to end diabetes.
Diabetes (otherwise known as diabetes mellitus, DM) is described as a metabolic disorder in which the body cannot properly store and use the energy found in food. More specifically, diabetes is a condition that affects the body's ability to use glucose (a type of sugar) as fuel. Glucose is a form of carbohydrate that comes from foods such as breads, cereals, pasta, rice, potatoes, fruits and some vegetables. When blood glucose levels get too high (hyperglycemia) this can cause damage to the tiny blood vessels in the eyes, kidneys, heart and nervous system, which is why diabetes is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease, kidney disease, loss of vision and neurological conditions.
Facts About Type 2. Type 2 diabetes is the most common form of diabetes. In type 2 diabetes, your body does not use insulin properly. This is called insulin resistance. At first, the pancreas makes extra insulin to make up for it. 
medically speaking, type 1 is worse, because the pancreas shuts down, whereas in type 2, the pancreas simply functions improperly. However, as a type 1 diabetic patient, I can tell you that Type 1 is BAD. through constant glucose checks and insulin injections, it is a lot to manage and sometimes quite a hassle. Type 2 diabetics have the problem of having insulin resistance. Yes, their pancreas's still produce insulin, but that does not mean that their body is receiving it. Like type 1's they also have to maintain a strict diet and exercise regularly, but their health is not completely up to them.
1 Type 2 diabetes accounts for 95% of diabetes cases and is usually associated with older age, obesity and physical inactivity, family history of type 2 diabetes, or a personal history of gestational diabetes. 2. 2  There is no known way to prevent diabetes type 1. When blood glucose levels get too high (hyperglycemia) this can cause damage to the tiny blood vessels in the eyes, kidneys, heart and nervous system, which is why diabetes is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease, kidney disease, loss of vision and neurological conditions.
Type 1 is the worst, sorry. And it sucks too because Type 1 is the one that isn't even CHOSEN, and is usually diagnosed in poor kids, sometimes even toddlers have to take shots at age two because of T1, which is autoimmune. :(Type 2 on the other hand, usually bring it upon yourself. . . being type 2 isnt fun. my blood sugar is regulated by medication and diet and exercise. if my blood sugar goes high there isnt much i can do. with a type 1 they can take injections to lower there blood sugar. so im not really sure which would be worse.
Type 1 diabetes, in which the immune system destroys insulin-producing cells in the pancreas, accounts for about 10 percent of all cases. Type 2 diabetes is chronic or environmental, and it’s especially prevalent in populations that overconsume hyperprocessed foods, like ours. We used to think there were two types of diabetes: the type you’re born with (Type 1) and the type you “get.” That’s called Type 2, and was called “adult onset” until it started ravaging kids. Type 2 is brought about by a combination of factors, including overeating, American-style.