- DNA and RNA both have 3 nitrogenous bases: Adenine, Cytosine and Guanine. - DNA and RNA both have a phosphate groups in their nucleotides. Sometimes called phosphoric acid. - They both have the base pair of Guanine and Cytosine. - DNA contains a pentose sugar Deoxyribose, RNA contains the pentose sugar Ribose. A pentose is a 5-carbon sugar molecule. - DNA is limited to the nucleus, RNA is made in the nucleus, but can travel outside of it. - DNA has a nitrogenous base called Thymine, but RNA doesn't. Instead, RNA has Uracil.
RNA and DNA are collectively known as nucleic acids.   DNA-Deoxyribonucleic Acid   RNA-Ribonucleic Acid   DNA is the immutable code that is always stored inside t … he nucleus. It carries the directions with making all RNA and proteins inside a cell. RNA has deoxyribose sugar while DNA has Ribose sugar. 4 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  A Brief Q&A on Genetic Transcription Gene expression is highly important to all life. 2  Without it, the proteins and nucleic acids necessary for life would not exist.
The monomers of both DNA and RNA are composed of three parts: a phosphate group, a pentose (5-carbon sugar), and a nitrogenous base. Both DNA and RNA use a form of ribose as their sugar (RNA uses ribose itself; in DNA, a single oxygen atom has been removed from the 2' carbon of ribose, to form deoxyribose). Both DNA and RNA use the bases adenine, cytosine, and guanine. Both DNA and RNA undergo complementary base pairing (DNA usually between two different strands, and RNA usually between two regions of a single strand). Both DNA and RNA are synthesized in the 5' to 3' direction
b. The templates: DNA polymerase and RNA polymerase use DNA as a template, whereas telomerase copies an RNA template that is part of the enzyme. Reverse transcriptase uses RNA as a template in the life cycle of retroviruses and retrotransposons, but in vitro it can use either DNA or RNA as a template.
RNA is single stranded molecule that copies the code from the DNA and carries it to the ribosomes to make new proteins. It has the same bases except that thymine is replace by uracil. And of course the sugar in DNA is deoxy ribose whereas RNA is just ribose. - DNA contains a pentose sugar Deoxyribose, RNA contains the pentose sugar Ribose. A pentose is a 5-carbon sugar molecule. - DNA is limited to the nucleus, RNA is made in the nucleus, but can travel outside of it. - DNA has a nitrogenous base called Thymine, but RNA doesn't. Instead, RNA has Uracil.
DNA is stored in the nucleus of the cell, which is where the RNA is produced. The RNA then moves out of the nucleus into the cytoplasm where it is translated into protein. So the bottom line is that DNA and RNA can and do coexist in cells. c. have the same five-carbon sugars. INCORRECT-The sugar that is found in the genetic material is a pentose sugar. Both DNA and RNA. a. contain the same four types of nitrogen-containing bases. b. cannot both be present in a cell simultaneously. c. have the same five-carbon sugars. d. contain phosphate groups. e. are single-stranded molecules.
(1) RNA is single-stranded while DNA is a double-stranded helix. (2) RNA also has uracil as its base while the DNA base is thymine. However, even with the differences in their structures, DNA and RNA have cooperating roles in the field of Cell Biology. - DNA contains a pentose sugar Deoxyribose, RNA contains the pentose sugar Ribose. A pentose is a 5-carbon sugar molecule. - DNA is limited to the nucleus, RNA is made in the nucleus, but can travel outside of it. - DNA has a nitrogenous base called Thymine, but RNA doesn't. Instead, RNA has Uracil.
Both DNA and RNA a. contain the same four types of nitrogen-containing bases. b. cannot both be present in a cell simultaneously. c. have the same five-carbon sugars. d. contain phosphate groups. Both DNA and RNA. a. contain the same four types of nitrogen-containing bases. b. cannot both be present in a cell simultaneously. c. have the same five-carbon sugars. d. contain phosphate groups. e. are single-stranded molecules.
DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) and RNA (ribonucleic acid) are polymers of nucleotides linked in a chain through phosphodiester bonds. In biological systems, they serve as information-carrying molecules or, in the case of some RNA molecules, catalysts. 