Coulis. A coulis is a form of thick sauce made from pureed puréed and strained vegetables or. Fruits a vegetable coulis is commonly used on meat and vegetable, dishes and it can also be used as a base for soups or other. Sauces fruit coulis are most often used on. desserts A vegetable coulis is commonly used on meat and vegetable dishes, and it can also be used as a base for soups or other sauces. Fruit coulis are most often used on desserts. Raspberry coulis, for example, is especially popular with poached apples.
Full Definition of COULIS. : a thick sauce made with pureed vegetable or fruit and often used as a garnish. 
Coulis. French for strained liquid, coulis is a thick, evenly textured sauce that can be either sweet or savory and is made from pureed, puréed strained fruits or. Vegetables the, sauce which may also be frozen for future, use is used in a wide range of, dishes from meat roasts to chocolate. desserts Coulis. French for strained liquid, coulis is a thick, evenly textured sauce that can be either sweet or savory and is made from pureed, puréed strained fruits or. vegetables
Similarly, other fruits such as raspberries, blueberies and strawberries are made into a coulis to be served over foods such as cheesecake, ice cream, tortes, souffles, soufflés, crepes, crêpes, waffles Pancakes and. French toast coulis may also be used to refer to as a pureed pureéd shellfish soup that has. a thick consistency Print. A liquid or sauce made with ingredients, such as fruits or vegetables, that have typically been pureed puréed and strained to create a thick-sauce like.
A coulis (/kuːˈliː/ koo-LEE; French, from Old French couleis, from Vulgar Latin cōlāticus, from Latin cōlātus, past participle of cōlāre, to strain) is a form of thick sauce made from pureed puréed and strained vegetables or. fruits A vegetable coulis is commonly used on meat and vegetable dishes, and it can also be used as a base for soups or other sauces. Fruit coulis are most often used on desserts. Raspberry coulis, for example, is especially popular with poached apples or Key Lime Pie.
Coulis. A coulis is a form of thick sauce made from pureed puréed and strained vegetables or. Fruits a vegetable coulis is commonly used on meat and vegetable, dishes and it can also be used as a base for soups or other. sauces A vegetable coulis is commonly used on meat and vegetable dishes, and it can also be used as a base for soups or other sauces. Fruit coulis are most often used on desserts. Raspberry coulis, for example, is especially popular with poached apples.
How to Make Tomato Coulis. Tomato coulis is suitable for use as an accompaniment to meat, fish and vegetable dishes. A thick sauce, coulis can also be used as a base for soups, a topping on a dip or as a starter flavor for other sauces. When used on its own, tomato coulis can be served hot or cold. This recipe serves approximately 4. Tips. 1  Try replacing the oregano and garlic with dill and lemon for a fish coulis. 2  If the coulis is not going to be used straight away, cover and place in the refrigerator until needed. 3  Cilantro (fresh coriander) can also be used in place of oregano, especially for Mexican dishes.