Windley Key real estate is one part of the always popular Islamorada market in the Upper Florida Keys. Homes for sale in Windley Key are some of the most luxurious in the area, with a large proportion of them being waterfront properties in Windley Key. There are a wealth of great options for buyers within the market. Currently as of today October 13, 2015 there are 5 homes for sale in Windley Key, 5 of those houses are waterfront MLS listings. Windley Key also has 0 condos for sale and 0 of those condo listings are waterfront properties for sale. These Realtor listings are in 2 different neighborhoods in this Florida Keys city. This changes daily so be sure to sign up for email alerts, or contact a Windley Key Realtor from our team of experts
Its a great time to buy real estate in Windley Key and our site is a great place to begin your search. With the recent boom in Windley Key short sales, foreclosures and bank owned properties, you can be assured that you have the best tools available for your search. Windley Key real estate is hot and now is the time to act. Have a great time searching for your next Windley Key home! RE/MAX Keys Properties is home to full-time producing Realtors. This graphic indicates the level of experience and productivity of the agents affiliated with the most successful real estate brand in the world.
HISTORY OF WINDLEY KEY By Jerry Wilkinson (This page was created in 1992 for my book History of the Upper Florida Keys which was never published and uploaded in October 1995 as my vision of a virtual museum-JW) (Click on images to enlarge, then Back.). There were five designated FECR quarries: Rockdale, Key Largo, two on Windley's Island and TeaKettle. When compared to marl and sand pits, the quarries produced a very small percentage of fill material: 1.07%. 72% of the 'quarried material' came from Windley's Island.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Windley Key Fossil Reef Geological State Park is a Florida State Park located at mile marker 85.5 near Islamorada. It was a former quarry used by Henry Flagler in the early 1900s to help his building of the Overseas Railroad. Following the railroad's completion, it was a source for decorative stone pieces called Keystone.
If you are not familiar with the general location of Windley Key, click HERE, then 'BACK' for a basic location map. On November 10, 1979, the F.E.C. Railway sold the 36-acre property for six multi-story condominium buildings to the Windley Key Limited group. There were five designated FECR quarries: Rockdale, Key Largo, two on Windley's Island and TeaKettle. When compared to marl and sand pits, the quarries produced a very small percentage of fill material: 1.07%. 72% of the 'quarried material' came from Windley's Island.
Geologically, Windley Key, like the rest of the Florida Keys, dates back to the formation of the southern end of the Appalachian Mountains. More recently, coral reefs were formed during the Sangamon interglacial period, about 100,000 years ago, when the sea level was some 300 feet lower than it is today. There were five designated FECR quarries: Rockdale, Key Largo, two on Windley's Island and TeaKettle. When compared to marl and sand pits, the quarries produced a very small percentage of fill material: 1.07%. 72% of the 'quarried material' came from Windley's Island.
Windley Key was once two islands, shown in the 1870 U.S. Census as the Umbrella Keys.. The census showed John and Matilda Saunders and their two children, Hattie and Mary, as the only residents. John was listed as a farmer. There were five designated FECR quarries: Rockdale, Key Largo, two on Windley's Island and TeaKettle. When compared to marl and sand pits, the quarries produced a very small percentage of fill material: 1.07%. 72% of the 'quarried material' came from Windley's Island.
Windley Key is one of the spectacular islands that make up Islamorada-the village of islands located in the Upper Florida Keys. Islamorada is known as a premier destination for sport fishing and diving, and Windley Key is no exception. Currently as of today October 13, 2015 there are 5 homes for sale in Windley Key, 5 of those houses are waterfront MLS listings. Windley Key also has 0 condos for sale and 0 of those condo listings are waterfront properties for sale. These Realtor listings are in 2 different neighborhoods in this Florida Keys city. This changes daily so be sure to sign up for email alerts, or contact a Windley Key Realtor from our team of experts