Most volcanoes are formed by the movement of tectonic plates on the surface of the earth. These plates are basically huge pieces of rock that float on the mantle (a layer of the earth that is sort-of liquid rock). 
A volcano is a hollow vent in the Earth's surface, through which hot, molten rock, called magma, along with some gases and hot ash, oozes out from the Earth's interior. Magma erupting from a volcano is called lava. This magma is stored in the interior of the Earth in a sort of a large reservoir known as magma chamber. It is in this chamber that the formation of magma takes place by continuous melting of solid rock. Owing to this, the temperature of the magma chamber is immensely high.
A volcano is an opening, or rupture, in a planet's surface or crust, which allows hot, molten rock, ash, and gases to escape from below the surface. Volcanic activity involving the extrusion of rock tends to form mountains or features like mountains over a period of time. 
A caldera is a cauldron-like volcanic feature on large central volcanoes, a special sort of volcanic crater (from one to several kilometers in diameter), formed when a magma chamber was emptied. The depression then originated either in very big explosive eruptions or in erosion and collapse of the magma chamber roof. 
The name volcano comes from Vulcan, the Roman god of fire! A volcano is formed when hot molten rock, ash and gases escape from an opening in the Earth’s surface. The molten rock and ash solidify as they cool, forming the distinctive volcano shape shown here. As a volcano erupts, it spills lava that flows downslope. 
Volcanoes are formed by upwelling of magma (hot molten rock) deep under the earth's surface. No one is quite sure why magma rises in certain areas, but when it does, it forms pockets which create pressure on the rock of the Earth's crust. A volcano is an opening, or rupture, in a planet's surface or crust, which allows hot magma, volcanic ash and gases to escape from below the surface. Volcanoes are formed when magma from within the Earth's upper mantle works its way to
vents or fissures in the earth's crust through which gases, molten rock, or lava lava, molten rock that erupts on the earth's surface, either on land or under the ocean, by a volcano or through a fissure. It solidifies into igneous rock that is also called lava...... volcano. vents or fissures in the earth's crust through which gases, molten rock, or lava lava, molten rock that erupts on the earth's surface, either on land or under the ocean, by a volcano or through a fissure. It solidifies into igneous rock that is also called lava...... Click the link for more information.
A volcano is vent or opening on planet’s surface which allows molten rock called magma, volcanic ash and gas to escape out onto its surface. A volcano gives a look like a mountain from which lava erupts. The hot magma erupting from a volcano is called lava. When that lava cools down, it becomes solid and forms like a mound-like cone. In fact the mountain that we see today are nothing but solidified lava from previous volcanic eruptions. It is said that through volcanoes are earth’s way of renewing itself
A volcano is a vent or fissure in Earth's crust through which lava, ash, rock and gases erupt. A volcano is also a mountain formed by the accumulation of these eruptive products. Let's take a look at how volcanoes form: Earth's crust is 40 to 250 miles (64 to 402 kilometers) thick. It is broken up into 14 major and 38 smaller pieces called tectonic plates.