Periodontists are dentists who specialize in the diagnosis and treatment of periodontal disease. They have had extensive training with three additional years of study after dental school. As specialists they devote their time, energy and skill to helping patients care for their gums. 
A periodontist is a dentist who specializes in treating diseases and conditions of the periodontium. Periodontists have additional training in the specialty after obtaining their dental license. Periodontists specialize in the management of patients with periodontitis, gum recession and surgical placement of implants. Periodontal diseases take on many different forms, but is usually a result of bacterial infection of the gums. Untreated, it often leads to tooth loss and alveolar bone loss.
Periodontists offer a wide range of treatments, such as scaling and root planing (in which the infected surface of the root is cleaned) or root surface debridement (in which damaged tissue is removed). They can also treat patients with severe gum problems using a range of surgical procedures. In addition, periodontists are specially trained in the placement, maintenance, and repair of dental implants. During the first visit, the periodontist usually reviews the patient’s complete medical and dental histories. The periodontist will also take a small measuring instrument called a probe and place it between the teeth and gums to determine the depth of those spaces, known as periodontal pockets; this helps the periodontist assess the health of the gums.
Periodontist. A Periodontist is a dentist who specializes in the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of periodontal disease, and in advanced surgical techniques such as regenerative surgery, periodontal plastic surgery, and the placement of dental implants. 
Reviewed By: W. Peter Nordland, DMD. Periodontists are dentists who specialize in the prevention, diagnosis and treatment (non-surgical and surgical) of periodontal diseases and the placement of tooth implants. They also perform cosmetic oral plastic surgical procedures. It is especially important to see a periodontist if you experience any of the symptoms of periodontal disease, but regular periodontal examinations should be part of everyone's routine oral health care regimen. An evaluation sometimes may be the only way to detect periodontal disease.
Dental Implants. A dental implant is an artificial tooth root that is placed into your jaw to hold a replacement tooth or bridge. Dental implants may be an option for people who have lost a tooth or teeth due to periodontal disease, an injury, or some other reason. Adequate bone in your jaw is needed to support the implant, and the best candidates have healthy gum tissues that are free of periodontal disease. Dental implants are intimately connected with the gum tissues and underlying bone in the mouth.
Periodontists specialize in the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of periodontal disease, the placement of dental implants and bone grafts, and treatment of oral inflammation. Periodontists also perform cosmetic periodontal surgery. 
A periodontist is a dentist who specializes in the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of periodontal disease, and in the placement of dental implants. Periodontists are also experts in the treatment of oral inflammation. The periodontist will also take a small measuring instrument called a probe and place it between the teeth and gums to determine the depth of those spaces, known as periodontal pockets; this helps the periodontist assess the health of the gums.