1 Using the developer tab controls group, select and insert the type of content control you want to use. 2  In the example form, I used plain text and checkbox controls. 3  Repeat for each target fill-in location and type. This Microsoft Word Help & Tips page will show you how to create a functional content control form similar to the insurance application form example that Dian uses in part 2 of her legacy form series.
Content controls are Microsoft Word entities that act as containers for specific content in a document. Individual content controls can contain content such as dates, lists, or paragraphs of formatted text. If you insert a repeating section content control that is mapped to XML data, every time your user reopens the document, Word recreates the repeating section items, based on the information in the data store.
Content controls in Word 2007. Content control. Definition. Example. Restrictions. Rich Text. Formatting can be saved by loading, saving, or closing the document. Use for a short paragraph such as an abstract, a summary, or a legal disclaimer. No restrictions. Limits the formatting to the formatting that is applied around the content control. You can change the formatting by making changes to the surrounding formatting. Picture. Fills the content control with a single picture. Use for a drawing, shape, chart, table, clip art object, or SmartArt graphic.
Add content controls to the form as follows: 1  Place cursor at the desired target fill-in location in the form. 2  Using the developer tab controls group, select and insert the type of content control you want to use. 3  Repeat for each target fill-in location and type. This Microsoft Word Help & Tips page will show you how to create a functional content control form similar to the insurance application form example that Dian uses in part 2 of her legacy form series.
Content controls are individual controls that you can add and customize for use in templates, forms, and documents. For example, many online forms are designed with a drop-down list control that provides a restricted set of choices for the user of the form. Limits the formatting to the formatting that is applied around the content control. You can change the formatting by making changes to the surrounding formatting. Picture. Fills the content control with a single picture. Use for a drawing, shape, chart, table, clip art object, or SmartArt graphic.
1 The checkbox content controls in the basic form are not available in Word 2007. 2  You can't use the tab key to move from a checkbox to the next checkbox in a series of checkboxes or to the next control when the form is protected using traditional editing restrictions type: Filling in forms. This Microsoft Word Help & Tips page will show you how to create a functional content control form similar to the insurance application form example that Dian uses in part 2 of her legacy form series.
The best way to see what these are is to open one of the new boilerplate templates in Word 2007 and have a look. Use Content Control fields. 1  In Microsoft Word, click Office, New to display the New Document dialog box. 2  From the Templates frame click Installed Templates. 3  Find and click on Median Letter, then click Create. 4  Look at the instructions surrounded by square brackets – these are called Place Holders. 1 With Popular highlighted, tick Show Developer tab. 2  in the Ribbon and click OK. 3  Back in your document, click on the Developer tab, and identify the Controls group. 4  Click Design Mode. 5  This is a toggle. 6  Click the Aa button to insert a Rich Text content control.
Structured documents. Structured documents are documents that control where content can appear on a document, what kind of content can appear in the document, and whether that content can be edited. If you insert a repeating section content control that is mapped to XML data, every time your user reopens the document, Word recreates the repeating section items, based on the information in the data store.
These are the content controls available in Microsoft Office Word 2007. You can reuse and distribute your customized content controls, as well as create your own building blocks to include in a content control. You can find the content controls for your document on the Developer tab. Limits the formatting to the formatting that is applied around the content control. You can change the formatting by making changes to the surrounding formatting. Picture. Fills the content control with a single picture. Use for a drawing, shape, chart, table, clip art object, or SmartArt graphic.
Click Popular. Select the Show Developer tab in the Ribbon check box, and then click OK. Note The Ribbon is a component of the Microsoft Office Fluent user interface. Note If content controls are not available, you may have opened a document created in an earlier version of Microsoft Office Word. Limits the formatting to the formatting that is applied around the content control. You can change the formatting by making changes to the surrounding formatting. Picture. Fills the content control with a single picture. Use for a drawing, shape, chart, table, clip art object, or SmartArt graphic.