Calderas are some of the most spectacular features on Earth. They are large volcanic craters that form by two different methods: 1) an explosive volcanic eruption; or, 2) collapse of surface rock into an empty magma chamber. The image at right is a satellite view of one of the most famous calderas-Crater Lake in Oregon. Centuries of rain and snow filled the caldera creating Crater Lake. With a depth of 1932 feet (589 meters), Crater Lake is the deepest lake in the United States and the seventh deepest lake in the world. Collapse calderas form when a large magma chamber is emptied by a volcanic eruption or by subsurface magma movement.
One kind of eruption creates a crater without a volcanic cinder cone at all: a phreatic eruption. This is a situation where magma rises through water-saturated rocks and causes steam to build up under the surface. The pressure from all the steam causes the rock to explode outward and create a volcanic crater. A volcano crater is a circular depression around a volcanic vent. This is where the lava, ash and rock erupt out of a volcano. In most situations, the volcano crater is located at the top of the volcano. Volcano Crater.
Noun. 1. volcanic crater-a bowl-shaped geological formation at the top of a volcano. crater. caldera-a large crater caused by the violent explosion of a volcano that collapses into a depression. geological formation, formation - (geology) the geological features of the earth. maar-a flat-bottomed volcanic crater that was formed by an explosion; often filled with water. 
A volcanic crater is a circular depression in the ground caused by volcanic activity. It is typically a basin, circular in form within which occurs a vent (or vents) from which magma erupts as gases, lava, and ejecta. A crater can be of large dimensions, and sometimes of great depth. During certain types of climactic eruptions, the volcano's magma chamber may empty enough for an area above it to subside, forming what may appear to be a crater but is actually known as a caldera.
A crater may be breached during an eruption, either by explosions or by lava, or through later erosion. Some volcanoes, such as maars, consist of a crater alone, with scarcely any mountain at all. These volcanic explosion craters are formed when magma rises through water-saturated rocks and causes a phreatic eruption. A crater can be of large dimensions, and sometimes of great depth. During certain types of climactic eruptions, the volcano's magma chamber may empty enough for an area above it to subside, forming what may appear to be a crater but is actually known as a caldera.
The crater is the bowl shaped hole in a volcano that is formed after the volcano's eruption. 
And other craters are volcanic in origin. A volcano crater is a circular depression around a volcanic vent. This is where the lava, ash and rock erupt out of a volcano. In most situations, the volcano crater is located at the top of the volcano. Volcano Crater.
Summary. Quick Facts. Ubehebe (pronounced you-bee-hee-bee) Craters, located about 150 miles northeast of Bakersfield in Death Valley National Park, consists of at least a dozen overlapping volcanic craters. The largest crater is about 800 m (0.5 mi) wide and 250 m (800 ft) deep. 
A crater lake is a lake that forms in a volcanic crater or caldera, such as a maar; less commonly and with lower association to the term a lake may form in an impact crater caused by a meteorite, or in an artificial explosion caused by humans. It is located in the caldera of Mount Mazama. It is the deepest lake in the United States with a depth of 594 m (1,949 ft). Crater Lake is fed solely by falling rain and snow, with no inflow or outflow at the surface, and hence is one of the clearest lakes in the world.
But not all volcano craters are found at the top of the volcano. They can also appear on the flanks of large volcanoes, when side vents reach the surface and erupt. These are known as flank craters, while the crater on top is called a summit crater. A volcano crater is a circular depression around a volcanic vent. This is where the lava, ash and rock erupt out of a volcano. In most situations, the volcano crater is located at the top of the volcano. Volcano Crater.