DEFINITION of 'Principal-Agent Relationship'. An arrangement in which one entity legally appoints another to act on its behalf. In a principal-agent relationship, the agent acts on behalf of the principal and should not have a conflict of interest in carrying out the act. Principal. The relationship between the principal and the agent is called the agency, and the law of agency establishes guidelines for such a relationship.
The modern English judicial system has abolished this distinction. Barristers may appear in legal and equitable court proceedings, and solicitors handle out-of-court lawyering. The role of the solicitor is similar to that of a lawyer in the United States who does not appear in court. 
Our vision To make a difference in the justice system and the wider community Our purpose To provide an independent prosecution service to the people of Victoria Our Goals 1. To deliver high quality prosecution services 2. To achieve just outcomes effectively, economically and efficiently 3. • Provide professional opinions and advice to workgroup members, Director and external agencies. • Initiate policy review/development, identification of issues and trends and resolution of problems in the. prosecution of complex criminal cases. 3. Provide guidance to all staff as required.
4. 'solicitor'. In Britain, a solicitor is a lawyer who gives legal advice to clients, prepares legal documents and cases, and in certain limited circumstances may represent a client in court. Anyone with a legal problem had to consult a solicitor. 5. 'attorney'.
6. Principal is used also to denote the more important; as, the principal person. 7. In the English law, the chief person in some of the inns of chancery is called principal of the house. Principal is also used to designate the best of many things as, the best bed, the best table, and the like. In investments and banking, the principal refers to the person for whom a Broker executes an order; it may also mean the capital invested or the face amount of a loan. A principal in the first degree is the chief actor or perpetrator of a crime. A principal in the second degree must be present at the commission of the criminal act and aid, abet, or encourage the principal in his or her criminal activity
Principal. A source of authority; a sum of a debt or obligation producing interest; the head of a school. In an agency relationship, the principal is the person who gives authority to another, called an agent, to act on his or her behalf. In investments and banking, the principal refers to the person for whom a Broker executes an order; it may also mean the capital invested or the face amount of a loan. A principal in the first degree is the chief actor or perpetrator of a crime. A principal in the second degree must be present at the commission of the criminal act and aid, abet, or encourage the principal in his or her criminal activity
a principal is a person legal or natural–who authorizes an agent to act to create one or more legal relationships with a third party. Principal has a specific meaning in the context of commercial law. From Wikipedia : a principal is a person legal or natural–who authorizes an agent to act to create one or more legal relationships with a third party. Effectively, this means that the principal is the business. In the case of a corporation, say General Electric, the principal is General Electric itself, while Jack Welch was one of its agents during the 80s and 90s. A partner or owner of a business. This is primarily the only reason you would use the word principal in the world of business. In Business terms, Principal has one meaning, you would be a part of a company with a financial interest in that company.
In commercial law, a principal is a person, legal or natural, who authorizes an agent to act to create one or more legal relationships with a third party. This branch of law is called agency and relies on the common law proposition qui facit per alium, facit per se (Latin he who acts through another, acts personally). 
Lawyer is a general term for a person who is qualified to advise people about the law and represent them in court. Her lawyer was presenting closing arguments to the jury. 2. 'barrister'. In Britain, a barrister is a lawyer who speaks in the higher courts of law on behalf of either the prosecution or the defence. In Britain, a solicitor is a lawyer who gives legal advice to clients, prepares legal documents and cases, and in certain limited circumstances may represent a client in court. Anyone with a legal problem had to consult a solicitor. 5. 'attorney'.