Granite /ˈɡraenɨt/ ˈɡrænɨt is a common type of felsic intrusive igneous rock that is granular and phaneritic in. Texture granites can be predominantly, white, pink or gray in, color depending on their. mineralogy Granites can be predominantly white, pink, or gray in color, depending on their mineralogy. The word granite comes from the Latin granum, a grain, in reference to the coarse-grained structure of such a holocrystalline rock.
All rocks are made of minerals. Igneous rocks are formed from molten and magma eg. basalt and granite, Sedimentary rocks are mechanically or organically formed eg. sandstone, … limestone and shale and Metamorphic rocks are formed from igneous or sedimentary rocks altered by heat or pressure eg. slate and graphite. There are a lot of processes involved that transform a sedimentary rock into an igneous or metamorphic rock. But in short detail a sedimentary rock becomes metamorphic when it … is exposed to pressure and or heat.
The three types of rocks igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic are all subject to processes that change one rock type into another. The images below show several types of rocks undergoing these processes. 
Metamorphic rocks can form from either sedimentary or igneous rocks. The sedimentary particles from which a sedimentary rock is formed can be derived from a metamorphic, an igneous, or another sedimentary rock. All three rock types can be melted to form a magma. 
Igneous rock is formed through the cooling and solidification of magma or lava. Igneous rock may form with or without crystallization, either below the surface as intrusive (plutonic) rocks or on the surface as extrusive (volcanic) rocks. This magma can be derived from partial melts of pre-existing rocks in either a planet's mantle or crust. Extrusive igneous rocks cool and solidify quicker than intrusive igneous rocks. They are formed by the cooling of molten magma on the earth's surface. The magma, which is brought to the surface through fissures or volcanic eruptions, solidifies at a faster rate.
Major Concepts. 1  Metamorphic rocks can be formed from any rock type: igneous, sedimentary, or existing metamorphic rocks. 2  Involves recrystallization in the solid state, often with little change in overall chemical composition. 3  Driving forces are changes in temperature, pressure, and pore fluids. 
Summary: 1.Igneous rocks are formed when magma (or molten rocks) have cooled down and solidified. Sedimentary rocks are formed by the accumulation of other eroded substances, while Metamorphic rocks are formed when rocks change their original shape and form due to intense heat or pressure. 4.Examples of Igneous rocks include granite and basalt, while examples of Sedimentary rocks include shale, limestone and sandstone. Common examples of Metamorphic rocks are marble, slate and quartzite.
Geologists classify rocks in three groups, according to the major Earth processes that formed them. These are igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic rocks. Sedimentary-Sedimentary rocks are formed on the surface of the Earth, either in water or on land. They are called secondary, because they often result from the accumulation of small pieces broken off from pre-existing rocks. Granite rocks are igneous rocks which were formed by slowly cooling pockets of magma that were trapped beneath the earth's surface. Obsidian rocks are igneous rocks that form when lava cools quickly above ground. Obsidian is actually glass and not a mixture of minerals.