The virus titer estimates by the viable cell diameter method is close to the plaque assay-based estimates, although the cell diameter method may overestimate the titer by threefold relative to the plaque assay method. However, this is not surprising given that the two methods use different methodologies. In this method, the Vi-CELL (Beckman Coulter) was used to measure cell diameter change over a range of virus dilutions, following infection. The cell diameter change data were used to compute the virus titer using a statistical method called the method of moments that we have described previously.
TCID 50 is the measure of infectious virus titer. This endpoint dilution assay quantifies the amount of virus required to kill 50% of infected hosts or to produce a cytopathic effect in 50% of inoculated tissue culture cells. The virus infected cell will lyse and spread the infection to adjacent cells where the infection-to-lysis cycle is repeated. The infected cell area will create a plaque (an area of infection surrounded by uninfected cells) which can be seen visually or with an optical microscope.
Virus quantification involves counting the number of viruses in a specific volume to determine the virus concentration. It is utilized in both research and development (R&D) in commercial and academic laboratories as well as production situations where the quantity of virus at various steps is an important variable. The virus infected cell will lyse and spread the infection to adjacent cells where the infection-to-lysis cycle is repeated. The infected cell area will create a plaque (an area of infection surrounded by uninfected cells) which can be seen visually or with an optical microscope.
Viral load, also known as viral burden, viral titre or viral titer, is a numerical expression of the quantity of virus in a given volume. It is often expressed as viral particles, or infectious particles per mL depending on the type of assay. A higher viral burden, titre, or viral load often correlates with the severity of an active viral infection. The quantity of virus / mL can be calculated by estimating the live amount of virus in an involved body fluid.
Plaque-based assays are the standard method used to determine virus concentration in terms of infectious dose. Viral plaque assays determine the number of plaque forming units (pfu) in a virus sample, which is one measure of virus quantity. The virus infected cell will lyse and spread the infection to adjacent cells where the infection-to-lysis cycle is repeated. The infected cell area will create a plaque (an area of infection surrounded by uninfected cells) which can be seen visually or with an optical microscope.
Renato Dulbecco modified this procedure in 1952 for use in animal virology, and it has since been used for reliable determination of the titers of many different viruses. To perform a plaque assay, 10-fold dilutions of a virus stock are prepared, and 0.1 ml aliquots are inoculated onto susceptible cell monolayers. The titer of the virus stock is therefore 1.7 x 10 8 PFU/ml. Next we’ll consider how the plaque assay can be used to prepare clonal virus stocks, a step that is essential for studying viral genetics. Dulbecco, R., & Vogt, M. (1953). Some problems of animal virology as studied by the plaque technique.
To determine the virus titer, the plaques are counted. To minimize error, only plates containing between 10 and 100 plaques are counted, depending on the size of the cell culture plate that is used. Statistical principles dictate that when 100 plaques are counted, the sample titer will vary by plus or minus 10%. The titer of the virus stock is therefore 1.7 x 10 8 PFU/ml. Next we’ll consider how the plaque assay can be used to prepare clonal virus stocks, a step that is essential for studying viral genetics. Dulbecco, R., & Vogt, M. (1953). Some problems of animal virology as studied by the plaque technique.
In the RFFIT, a total of 20 microscopic fields are read for each serum dilution, and compared against a control slide containing reference serum and virus dilutions. The number of infected fields for each serum dilution is used to determine the rabies virus neutralizing titer. Figure A: An example of a microscopic field where virus has been neutralized. Figure B: An example of a microscopic field where virus was not neutralized. The RFFIT is a rabies virus neutralization test performed in cell culture to determine the rabies virus neutralizing antibody level in human or animal sera. Immunofluorescent staining of infected cells is used as an indicator of rabies virus replication.
In the example shown below, there are 17 plaques on the plate made from the 10 -6 dilution. The titer of the virus stock is therefore 1.7 x 10 8 PFU/ml. Next we’ll consider how the plaque assay can be used to prepare clonal virus stocks, a step that is essential for studying viral genetics. Dulbecco, R., & Vogt, M. (1953). Some problems of animal virology as studied by the plaque technique.
One of the most important procedures in virology is measuring the virus titer – the concentration of viruses in a sample. A widely used approach for determining the quantity of infectious virus is the plaque assay. This technique was first developed to calculate the titers of bacteriophage stocks. The titer of the virus stock is therefore 1.7 x 10 8 PFU/ml. Next we’ll consider how the plaque assay can be used to prepare clonal virus stocks, a step that is essential for studying viral genetics. Dulbecco, R., & Vogt, M. (1953). Some problems of animal virology as studied by the plaque technique.