The Greek alphabet is the script that has been used to write the Greek language since the 8th century BC. It was derived from the earlier Phoenician alphabet, and was in turn the ancestor of numerous other European and Middle Eastern scripts, including Cyrillic and Latin. In its classical and modern form, the alphabet has 24 letters, ordered from alpha to omega. Like Latin and Cyrillic, Greek originally had only a single form of each letter; it developed the letter case distinction between upper-case and lower-case forms in parallel with Latin during the modern era.
Apart from its use in writing the Greek language, in both its ancient and its modern forms, the Greek alphabet today also serves as a source of technical symbols and labels in many domains of mathematics, science and other fields. 1 The Coptic alphabet adds eight letters derived from Demotic. 2  It is still used today, mostly in Egypt, to write Coptic, the liturgical language of Egyptian Christians. 3  Letters usually retain an uncial form different from the forms used for Greek today.
Gill. This page lists the Greek Alphabet, the world's first full alphabet, but first, some notes.... The Greek alphabet has three forms for the voiceless alveolar sibilant letter -- SIGMA, two lower case, and one capitalized. The second lower case SIGMA is only used at the end of the word. These letters are not in our alphabetical order
The table below lists all of the letters in the Greek alphabet, upper-case and lower-case, with their names and pronunciations. The lower-case letters are used more often than the upper-case letters, but the latter are used often enough. 
The greek alphabet has been used since 900 BC to write the Greek Language. It is the first writing system using a separate symbol for each vowel and consonant and the oldest alphabetic system that is still in use. Greek Letters today are used for writing modern greek and symbols in mathematics and science. 
The Greek Alphabet. This table gives the Greek letters, their names, equivalent English letters, and tips for pronouncing those letters which are pronounced differently from the equivalent English letters. (There are actually several acceptable ways to pronounce New Testament Greek. For the gory details, look here .). 
The Greek alphabet has been used to write the Greek language since the 8th century BC. It was derived from the earlier Phoenician alphabet, and was the first alphabetic script to have distinct letters for vowels as well as consonants. 1 The Coptic alphabet adds eight letters derived from Demotic. 2  It is still used today, mostly in Egypt, to write Coptic, the liturgical language of Egyptian Christians. 3  Letters usually retain an uncial form different from the forms used for Greek today.
Below, the letters from the Greek alphabet are images rather than letters in one of the specific Greek fonts. This means that every computer system should display all of the letters of the Greek alphabet. Please refer to the above links to learn more about the Greek language. 
The Greek alphabet has been in continuous use since about 750 BC. It was developed from the Canaanite/Phoenician alphabet and the order and names of the letters are derived from Phoenician. The original Canaanite meanings of the letter names was lost when the alphabet was adapted for Greek. Greek was first written in Mycenae with a script known as Linear B, which was used between about 1500 and 1200 BC. This variety of Greek is known as Mycenaean. On Crete another script, known as the Cypriot syllabary, was used to write the local variety of Greek between about 1200 and 300 BC.