Comments about Similac Advance Baby Formula : I recently tried this Similac: Advance Complete Formula (with Iron) with my 2 weeks baby and it constipated him, gave him colic's! This is my last choice for formula. I really like Similac, but not this kind (Advance), I prefer other types. Comments about Similac Advance Baby Formula : I absolutely love the Similac brand, especially because I was able to receive so many samples/coupons when I had my first child. It was an absolute life saver. I originally transitioned my son to Similac Advance from breast feedin when he was around 3 months old
Similac is formulated to help give your baby a strong start. The formula line includes variations for babies with different nutritional needs. More Moms choose the Similac® Brand*. *Total US infant formula all outlets as of 26 July 2014, Nielsen Data. 
Continue reading the main story. The maker of Similac Advance, the top commercial baby formula brand in the United States, says it will begin selling the first mainstream baby formula made without genetically altered ingredients by the end of the month at Target. 
Similac Advance is a nutritionally complete milk-based iron-fortified infant formula, featuring OptiGRO, an exclusive blend of brain & eye nourishing nutrients for baby's development. Similac Advance is designed to support your baby's developing immune system, brain, and eyes, and to help build strong bones. After reading a lot of reviews on ALL formulas on the market, I decided to try Good Start. I am so glad I did. My baby is happy now. She is not fuzzy, has not colic/gas pains, and she doesn't cry while feeding anymore. On the positive side, I really like the packaging of the Similac formula.
4 years ago. I would start with one and see how your baby does on it. They are all formulated according to what the FDA requires. Some baby's bodies do better on a certain type.Do be careful about switching around too much. I have heard that it isn't good to constantly be switching around. good start really messed up my baby's poo, it came out solid, and I had her on it from week 6 to 8. We stopped after that. HOwever, infamil, similac, as well as babies r us and other grocery store generic brands have all worked out well for us (the advance formulas with DHA).
Similac Advance Baby Formula is all I ever fed my son, till he was old enough for Milk. And for his whole first year, this was all he drank other than water at times. Easily Digested. Similac Advance Baby Formula is so smooth and blends so well that my son never spit it up at all. And there were never any clumps or powdered bits left in his bottle, or stool. It never gave him any problems either. Comments about Similac Advance Baby Formula : I absolutely love the Similac brand, especially because I was able to receive so many samples/coupons when I had my first child. It was an absolute life saver. I originally transitioned my son to Similac Advance from breast feedin when he was around 3 months old
Similac Advance Stage 1 is designed to be closer than ever to breast milk, and has OptiGRO™ to support your baby's brain. Rated 5 out of 5 by Kiran No Problem... Digests well We are giving this Similac Advance from last 6 months right from the Day 1. Similac powder dissolves in water very well. Till now didnt face any problem (Constipation/Gas/Allergy/Vomiting/reluctance etc). Looks like this digest well. And happy to say my kid is healthier, having good weight, height
Good start vs. similac. This is maybe a stupid question, but we were going to try switching DS formula from similac advance to good start with probiotic, hoping that the gentler on the tummy formula helps him sleep better. we didn't have a problem with similac advance per se, it's just that my MIL was saying that DS seems gassy and maybe that's why he doesn't sleep, maybe it's the formula, her boys couldn't handle similac, and it is the cheapest brand you know which made my blood boil....