About PFCs. Perfluorinated compounds (PFCs) are a family of fluorine-containing chemicals with unique properties to make materials stain-and stick-resistant. Some PFCs are incredibly resistant to breakdown and are turning up in unexpected places around the world. There are many forms of PFCs, but the two most commonly found contaminants are: 1  PFOA or perfluorooctanoic acid, used to make Teflon™ products. 2  PFOS or perfluorooctane sulfonate, a breakdown product of chemicals formerly used to make Scotchgard® products.
Perfluorinated Chemicals (PFCs) Many of us have probably seen news stories about something commonly referred to as PFCs or perfluorochemicals. You may not know exactly what they are, but can probably guess that they have something to do with the environment and your health. characterization of the immunotoxic potential of several perfluorinated compounds (PFCs).
Perfluorinated chemicals or Perfluorochemicals (PFC): A chemical family consisting of a carbon backbone fully surrounded by fluorine, which makes them impervious to heat, acid or other forces that typically break down chemical compounds. 
Having higher blood levels of PFCs -- which are compounds involved in the manufacturing of common products, including carpets, mattresses and food packaging -- may affect the functioning of women's thyroids, according to a new study. Getty. There is widespread wildlife and human exposure to several PFCs, including perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS). Both PFOA and PFOS are byproducts of other commercial products, meaning they are released into the environment when other products are made, used, or discarded.
Including PFOA, PFOS PFHxS, and PFHxA. PFCs are a class of chemicals used to repel oil and water from clothing, carpeting, furniture, food packaging, and non-stick surfaces on cookware. These likely human carcinogens are known to contaminate our products, food, and water. Potential health effects include: 1  Cancer. 
Perfluorochemicals (PFCs) are a class of man-made chemicals. In most cases, PFCs are not regulated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). PFCs have been used for many years to make products that resist heat, stains, grease and water. Because of their widespread use, most people in the United States have some PFCs in their body.
How PFCs are contaminating Puget Sound Environmental Working Group's PFCs: A family of chemicals that contaminate the world. chemical profile of PFCs-perfluorinated compounds in Teflon and stain-resistant products. There are many forms of PFCs, but the two most commonly found contaminants are: 1  PFOA or perfluorooctanoic acid, used to make Teflon™ products. 2  PFOS or perfluorooctane sulfonate, a breakdown product of chemicals formerly used to make Scotchgard® products.
Found in blood samples from 10 of 10 Washingtonians in the Pollution in People study. Perfluorinated compounds (PFCs) are a family of fluorine-containing chemicals with unique properties to make materials stain and stick resistant. PFCs are incredibly resistant to breakdown and are turning up in unexpected places around the world. There are many forms of PFCs, but the two getting attention recently are: 1  PFOA or perfluorooctanoic acid, used to make Teflon products. 2  PFOS or perfluorooctane sulfonate, a breakdown product of chemicals formerly used to make Scotchgard products.
A perfluorinated compound (PFC) is an organofluorine compound containing only carbon-fluorine bonds (no C-H bonds) and C-C bonds but also other heteroatoms. Elements commonly incorporated into fluorocarbon based compounds include oxygen, such as in the carboxyl group present in some flourosurfactants, and chlorine, in chlorofluorocarbons, which were formerly used as refrigerants, and are presently implicated in ozone degradation).