Noun. 1. leeward-the direction in which the wind is blowing. direction-the spatial relation between something and the course along which it points or moves; he checked the direction and velocity of the wind. leeward side, to leeward-the side sheltered from the wind. windward-the direction from which the wind is coming
by admin. Leeward vs Windward. Windward and leeward are two terms used to give the position or orientation relative to the direction of the wind and one’s own position or another reference. Windward means on the side of something from which the wind is blowing. Leeward means the side opposite to which the wind is blowing. The terms are often used in sailing; seamen use these terms in relation to their ships. They are used in reference to islands in an archipelago and different sides of a single island too. The side of a ship that is towards leeward is its lee side. The leeward side is protected from the prevailing wind by the elevation of the island and is typically the drier side than the windward side. Therefore, leeward or windward nature is an important weather and climate defining factor on oceanic islands.
Some geographers include Barbados and Trinidad and Tobago in the Windward Islands. The Leeward Islands are located on the eastern edge of the Caribbean Sea and form the northeastern boundary between the Caribbean and the Atlantic Ocean. The Leeward Antilles is a chain of islands in the southern Caribbean Sea off the coast of Venezuela. They include Aruba, Curacao, Bonaire, Isla la Tortuga and Isla la Margarita.
You may hear the words leeward and windward to describe areas of the island, but not know what that means. In a nutshell, they essential describe how much rain an area gets and how tropical or arid an area is. The trade winds blow from the northeast of the Hawaiian islands to the southwest. Then the clouds produce rain on the windward side. The leeward side is the drier side or the side where the trade winds pass after they hit a mountain. The windward side is the wetter side. The way I try to remember it is this way – the winds hang out and
Full Definition of LEEWARD. : being in or facing the direction toward which the wind is blowing; also: being the side opposite the windward. See leeward defined for English-language learners. Full Definition of LEEWARD. : the lee side. See leeward defined for English-language learners. See leeward defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
The Leeward Islands /ˈliːwərd/ are a group of islands in the West Indies. In English, the term refers to the northern islands of the Lesser Antilles chain. As a group they start east of Puerto Rico and reach southward to Dominica. They are situated where the northeastern Caribbean Sea meets the western Atlantic Ocean. 
Leeward is the direction downwind (or downward) from the point of reference. The side of a ship that is towards the leeward is its lee side. If the vessel is heeling under the pressure of the wind, this will be the lower side. In the latter case, the windward side is that side of an island subject to the prevailing wind, and is thus the wetter side (see orographic precipitation). The leeward side is the side protected by the elevation of the island from the prevailing wind, and is typically the drier side of an island. Thus, leeward or windward siting is an important weather and climate factor on oceanic islands
• LEEWARD (noun). The noun LEEWARD has 2 senses: 1. the direction in which the wind is blowing. 2. the side of something that is sheltered from the wind. Familiarity information: LEEWARD used as a noun is rare. 