Support. Krakatoa Tours. Your Local Connection... Krakatoa Tours is a very professional and committed advocate for the tourism industry. We has a deep passion for ensuring his country remains sustainable for the years ahead and does not want irresponsible tourism to lead to his home's demise.
Introduction. Over a century ago, on August 26,1883, the island volcano of Krakatau (Krakatoa) in Indonesia, a virtually unknown volcanic island with a history of violent volcanic activity, exploded with devastating fury. The eruption was one of the most catastrophic natural disasters in recorded history. 
Each of the massive eruptions was accompanied by large tsunamis. Krakatau Before the 1883 Eruption. Impact of 1883 Eruption. Remains of Krakatau After 1883 Eruption. New Lighthouse at Anyer with Fundament of Earlier Lighthouse that was Swept Away by Tsunamis in Foreground. Anyer is Located Directly E of Krakatau on the Coast of Java, about 20km N of Carita where most Boats to Krakatau Depart from Today. 
watch this video on the App. The active volcano island of Krakatoa lies between the islands of Java and Sumatra in the Sundra Strait, and is one of the most dangerous volcanoes in the world. New to Old.
Distant Effects of the Krakatoa Eruption. The sound of the massive volcanic eruption traveled enormous distances across the ocean. At the British outpost on Diego Garcia, an island in the Indian Ocean more than 2,000 miles from Krakatoa, the sound was clearly heard. 
The eruption of Krakatoa, August 27, 1883. Krakatoa was dormant until May 20, 1883, when it erupted catastrophically. By August 11, three vents were regularly erupting on the volcano. During this time tides were unusually high, and phenonema such as windows suddenly shattering were commonplace. 
Overview. 1  Krakatoa is one of many volcanoes located along an area around the Pacific basin where two huge tectonic plates meet. 2  Krakatoa has erupted repeatedly throughout history, but its place in the record books is due to the series of massive explosions which took place on 26th and 27th August 1883. Krakatoa Facts. Krakatoa, arguably the most famous volcano of all time, whose eruption generated the loudest sound ever recorded and went on to inspire one of the most famous paintings of all time, as well as a Hollywood film.
About Krakatoa Volcano. Krakatoa, also known as Krakatau is a small island volcano found in Indonesia, between Java and Sumatra, in the Sunda Strait. For more than 200 years Krakatoa was a quiet, little-noticed island with no eruption occurring. 
History. 1  This 1883 eruption generated the loudest sound ever reported in history. 2  It was heard as far away as Perth in Australia (around 1,930 miles away) and the island of Rodrigues near Mauritius-a whopping 3,000 miles from Krakatoa! 3  When the volcano erupted, the explosion fired up hot ash 50 miles into the air. Krakatoa Facts. Krakatoa, arguably the most famous volcano of all time, whose eruption generated the loudest sound ever recorded and went on to inspire one of the most famous paintings of all time, as well as a Hollywood film.