An Exponent is a mathematical notation that implies the number of times a number is to be multiplied by itself. 
Negative exponents have caused problems for math students as long as they have been defined. This lesson will shed some light on the negative exponent: what it means and how to work with it in a math problem. There is also a quiz at the end of the lesson. For example: 2^3 = 2*2 *2 = 8. The word exponent is from the Latin expo, meaning out of, and ponere, meaning place. The first recorded modern usage of the concept was in the 1500's. However, the concept of squared and cubed numbers dates back to ancient Babylon.
1 Exponent. 2  An exponent is a small number written with another big number that tells how many times to multiply the big number by itself. 3  It looks like this: 4  32 and this means 3 x 3 which equals 9. 1 An exponent is a small number written with another big number that tells how many times to multiply the big number by itself. 2  It looks like this: 3  32 and this means 3 x 3 which equals 9. 4  The little 2 is the exponent. 5  It DOES NOT mean to multiply the 3 by 2. 6  It means to multiply the 3 times itself
The exponent tells a mathematician how many times a certain number should be multiplied to itself. For example: 2^3 = 2*2 *2 = 8. The word exponent is from the Latin expo, meaning out of, and ponere, meaning place. The first recorded modern usage of the concept was in the 1500's. However, the concept of squared and cubed numbers dates back to ancient Babylon. Exponents are useful mathematical and scientific shorthand
The exponent of a number says how many times to use the number in a multiplication. In 82 the 2 says to use 8 twice in a multiplication, so 82 = 8 × 8 = 64. In words: 8 2 could be called 8 to the power 2 or 8 to the second power, or simply 8 squared. Exponents are also called Powers or Indices. A negative exponent means how many times to divide one by the number. Example: 8-1 = 1 ÷ 8 = 0.125. You can have many divides: Example: 5-3 = 1 ÷ 5 ÷ 5 ÷ 5 = 0.008.
A power is the product of multiplying a number by itself. Usually, a power is represented with a base number and an exponent. The base number tells what number is being multiplied. The exponent, a small number written above and to the right of the base number, tells how many times the base number is being multiplied. 
: someone who supports a particular cause, belief, etc. : someone who is known for a particular method, style, etc. mathematics: a symbol that is written above and to the right of a number to show how many times the number is to be multiplied by itself. Full Definition of EXPONENT. 1. : a symbol written above and to the right of a mathematical expression to indicate the operation of raising to a power. 2. a: one that expounds or interprets b: one that champions, practices, or exemplifies. See exponent defined for English-language learners
more ... The exponent of a number says how many times to use that number in a multiplication. It is written as a small number to the right and above the base number. In this example: 82 = 8 × 8 = 64 (The exponent 2 says to use the 8 two times in a multiplication.) Other names for exponent are index or power. Exponents. 