The most common type of viral disease is the common cold, which is caused by a viral infection of the upper respiratory tract (nose and throat). Other common viral diseases include: Chickenpox. Flu (influenza). Herpes. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV/AIDS). Human papillomavirus (HPV). Infectious mononucleosis. 
MVD is a severe and highly fatal disease caused by a virus from the same family as the one that causes Ebola virus disease. These viruses are among the most virulent pathogens known to infect humans. Both diseases are rare, but have a capacity to cause dramatic outbreaks with high fatality. The Marburg virus is transmitted by direct contact with the blood, body fluids and tissues of infected persons. Transmission of the Marburg virus also occurred by handling ill or dead infected wild animals (monkeys, fruit bats).
Ebola virus disease (EVD; also Ebola hemorrhagic fever, or EHF), or simply Ebola, is a disease of humans and other primates caused by ebolaviruses. Signs and symptoms typically start between two days and three weeks after contracting the virus with a fever, sore throat, muscular pain, and headaches. EVD in humans is caused by four of five viruses of the genus Ebolavirus. The four are Bundibugyo virus (BDBV), Sudan virus (SUDV), Tai Taï forest (VIRUS) tafv and one simply Called ebola (VIRUS, ebov Formerly Zaire ebola). virus
Monkeys and other primates can spread many diseases to people and can cause severe injuries. While some states (including Washington) ban monkeys as pets, they may be illegally kept here or legally kept in other states. 
1 Viruses cause about 60 % of disease outbreaks in animals and humans. 2  Examples of diseases in animals caused by viruses are rabies, Newcastle disease and three-day stiffsickness. 3  It is difficult to treat diseases caused by viruses because the viruses live inside animal cells. 1 Bacteria can live in animals and in the environment. 2  Not all bacteria cause disease. 3  People and animals have bacteria living on and in them that do not cause disease. 4  Examples of diseases in animals caused by bacteria are anthrax, blackquarter and tuberculosis.
There are at least 39 important diseases people catch directly from animals. There are at least 48 important diseases people get from the bite of bugs that bit an infected animal. And there are at least 42 important diseases that people get by ingesting or handling food or water contaminated with animal feces.
Virus spread control. Viral diseases can be prevented from spreading by vaccinations and the most successful of these is the small pox vaccine that has completely eradicated the disease in 1980. It is hoped that several other viruses, such as polio and measles, will follow. Viruses and cancer. Some viruses may incorporate their DNA (or DNA copied from viral RNA) into host DNA, with effects on the control of cell growth. This may sometimes lead to transformation, in other words a tumour.
Avian flu is caused by a virus, H5N1, that can be contracted through handling infected birds. Since 1997, more than 120 million birds worldwide have died from the flu or after being destroyed to prevent the disease's spread. H5N1 is highly lethal in humans. 
Marburg virus disease (MVD) (formerly known as Marburg haemorrhagic fever) was first identified in 1967 during epidemics in Marburg and Frankfurt in Germany and Belgrade in the former Yugoslavia from importation of infected monkeys from Uganda. The Marburg virus is transmitted by direct contact with the blood, body fluids and tissues of infected persons. Transmission of the Marburg virus also occurred by handling ill or dead infected wild animals (monkeys, fruit bats).
Recommend on Facebook Tweet ShareCompartir. B virus infection is caused by a herpes virus. B virus is also commonly referred to as herpes B, monkey B virus, herpesvirus simiae, and herpesvirus B. The virus is found among macaque monkeys, including rhesus macaques, pig-tailed macaques, and cynomolgus monkeys (also called crab-eating or long-tailed macaques). 