The staff will help you to get up and walk about as quickly as possible. If you have had minimally invasive surgery or are on an enhanced recovery programme, you may be able to walk on the same day as your operation. Generally, you will be helped to stand within 12-24 hours after your operation. Walking with a frame or crutches is encouraged. However, it may take up to three months for pain and swelling to settle down. It can take up to a year for any leg swelling to disappear. Your new knee will continue to recover up to two years after your operation. During this time, scar tissue will heal and muscles will be restored by exercise.
Most people can leave hospital between one and four days after having knee replacement surgery. You'll need to make arrangements for wound care and you'll usually have follow-up appointments from six weeks after your operation. You’ll only need a knee replacement if your arthritis causes pain, stiffness, instability or loss of function that affects your daily life and activities. Your orthopaedic surgeon will be able to advise you on the surgical options and on the potential pros and cons of having or delaying surgery.
Activities After Knee Replacement. After having a knee replacement, you may expect your lifestyle to be a lot like it was before surgery— but without the pain. In many ways, you are right, but returning to your everyday activities takes time. Your hospital stay will typically last from 1 to 4 days, depending on the speed of your recovery. Before you are discharged from the hospital, you will need to accomplish several goals, such as: 1  Getting in and out of bed by yourself. 2  Having acceptable pain control.
Most patients undergoing total knee replacement surgery want to know when they’ll be able to return to their normal life. Questions about “recovery time” are common. There are many factors that can affect recovery time, but typically patients can return to normal life activities within 3 to 6 months. On days 1 or 2, most total knee replacement patients are given a walker to stabilize them. By the third day after the surgery, most patients can go home. Short-term recovery also involves getting off major pain killers and having a full night’s sleep without pills.
After knee replacement surgery: Common questions when leaving the hospital. Before you go home, you will receive instructions on foods, medicines, an exercise program, activity level, care equipment, follow-up appointments, and signs and symptoms to watch for. 
After knee replacement surgery, you should not pivot or twist on the involved leg for at least six weeks. Also during this time, when lying in bed, you should keep the involved knee as straight as possible. If you are sent to a facility, the average rehabilitation stay is approximately seven to ten days. If you are sent directly home from the hospital, your doctor will usually have a physical therapist come to treat you at home.
You will usually be in hospital for three to five days, depending on what progress you make and what type of knee replacement you have. Patients who have a half knee replacement usually have a shorter hospital stay. However, it may take up to three months for pain and swelling to settle down. It can take up to a year for any leg swelling to disappear. Your new knee will continue to recover up to two years after your operation. During this time, scar tissue will heal and muscles will be restored by exercise.
You can resume driving when you can bend your knee enough to get in and out of a car and control the car properly. This is usually around four to six weeks after your surgery, but check with your physiotherapist or doctor whether it is safe for you to drive. However, it may take up to three months for pain and swelling to settle down. It can take up to a year for any leg swelling to disappear. Your new knee will continue to recover up to two years after your operation. During this time, scar tissue will heal and muscles will be restored by exercise.
After knee replacement surgery, you are usually sent home or to a rehabilitation facility, depending on your condition at that time. If you are sent to a facility, the average rehabilitation stay is approximately seven to ten days. If you are sent directly home from the hospital, your doctor will usually have a physical therapist come to treat you at home.