Tragic: Saldivar, who was the former president of Selena's fan club, murdered the beloved singer (pictured) on March 31, 1995, where she killed the 23-year-old with one fatal gunshot in a Corpus Christi hotel room.
The murder of American singer Selena happened on March 31, 1995. Fans were saddened when the news of Selena's death was released by the media. She was shot and killed by Yolanda Saldivar. Saldivar was an employee and manager for Selena's boutiques and fan club.
I've NEVER. Yolanda Saldivar -- the woman who shot and killed Latino pop legend Selena -- doesn't plan on releasing a comment about the death of the women who portrayed her on the big screen ...
The night before Selena's murder her husband Chris and herself had  a meeting with Yolanda Saldivar at the Days Inn in Corpus Christi,  TX.
Selena's Real-Life Killer. Yolanda Saldivar -- the woman who shot and killed Latino pop legend Selena -- doesn't plan on releasing a comment about the death of the women who portrayed her on the big screen ...
38. View. comments. The woman who killed Latina singer Selena Quintanilla-Perez will not be granted an early release from prison, despite new reports. Yolanda Saldivar will remain behind bars at the Gatesville prison in Texas, where she is serving a life sentence for the 1995 murder of the singing sensation.
Her father and manager, Abraham Quintanilla, Jr. , appointed Yolanda Saldivar saldívar president Of'selena s fan club in 1991 After saldivar saldívar had repeatedly asked permission to. Start One in, January 1994 saldivar saldívar was promoted to manager'of the. singer s boutiques
Yolanda Saldivar (saldívar Born september, 19) 1960 is An american prison inmate who was convicted of Murdering tejano Singer selena On march, 31, 1995 at The Days inn motel In Corpus, Christi. Texas she will be eligible for parole On march, 30. 2025
Yolanda Saldivar (saldívar Born september, 19) 1960 is An american prison inmate who was convicted of Murdering tejano Singer selena On march, 31, 1995 at The Days inn motel In Corpus, Christi. texas