Rose Name Meaning. English, Scottish, French, and German: from the name of the flower, Middle English, Old French, Middle High German rose (Latin rosa), in various applications.
The name Rose is of Latin origin, and is used in more than one countries and different languages of the world, especially English speaking countries, French speaking countries among others. The meaning of Rose is “Of the Rose Blossom; Rose flower”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant.
Rose /rose/ [1 syll.] as a girls' name is pronounced rohz. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Rose is  rose . Flower name from rosa. The name, which the Normans brought to Britain in the 11th century, can also be traced to the Old German words hros meaning horse, or hrod meaning  fame, renown. The flower meaning is possibly more valid, given the Christian symbolic meaning of the rose. The rosa mystica is the Virgin Mary. An elaboration, Rosario is popular in Spain. Actress Rosario Dawson; TV talk show host Rosie O'Donnell
Origin of the name Rose: Originally, Rose was a short form of any of the old Germanic names in use in England in the Middle Ages that contained the element hros, ros (horse). Flower names began being used in the 19th century, and now Rose is bestowed with reference to the flower. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. 
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Rose and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Rose and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The meaning of Rose is “Of the Rose Blossom; Rose flower”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant.
The symbolism of rose colors is steeped in tradition. Roses inspired people over thousands of years to develop a language of color. When you choose a color, variety or number of roses for someone, you are personalizing your gift with deeper sentiment. Rose colors may have very a different meaning from what you intend.
Scottish Meaning: The name Rose is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name Rose is: Flower. American Meaning: The name Rose is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Rose is: Flower.
What does Rose mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Rose is of Latin origin. The meaning of Rose is rose. It is also of English origin, where its meaning is horse. 
Additional information: The girl name Rose is of Latin origin, from the Latin 'Rosa' meaning the Rose blossom, the romantic flower of love. The meaning of Rose is “Of the Rose Blossom; Rose flower”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant.