Cytokines are produced by a broad range of cells, including immune cells like macrophages, B lymphocytes, T lymphocytes and mast cells, as well as endothelial cells, fibroblasts, and various stromal cells; a given cytokine may be produced by more than one type of cell. Part of the difficulty with distinguishing cytokines from hormones is that some of the immunomodulating effects of cytokines are systemic rather than local. For instance, to use hormone terminology, the action of cytokines may be autocrine or paracrine in chemotaxis or chemokinesis and endocrine as a pyrogen.
Medical Definition of CYTOKINE. : any of a class of immunoregulatory proteins (as interleukin, tumor necrosis factor, and interferon) that are secreted by cells especially of the immune system.
As proteins that are produced by white blood cells, cytokines perform several important functions that allow the body to operate at optimum levels. They are often created in response to the presence of some sort of bacterial infection. 
The term cytokine is derived from a combination of two Greek words - cyto meaning cell and kinos meaning movement. Cytokines are cell signalling molecules that aid cell to cell communication in immune responses and stimulate the movement of cells towards sites of inflammation, infection and trauma. Cytokines exist in peptide, protein and glycoprotein (proteins with a sugar attached) forms. The most current terminology used to describe cytokines is immunomodulating agents or agents that modulate or alter the immune system response. Cytokines are important regulators of both the innate and adaptive immune response.
Cytokine function / Function of cytokine. Cytokines are a large group of proteins, peptides or glycoproteins that are secreted by specific cells of immune system. Cytokines are a category of signaling molecules that mediate and regulate immunity, inflammation and hematopoiesis. Cytokines are produced throughout the body by cells of diverse embryological origin. 
Definition of CYTOKINE. : any of a class of immunoregulatory proteins (as interleukin or interferon) that are secreted by cells especially of the immune system. ADVERTISEMENT. cyt- + -kine (as in lymphokine). First Known Use: 1979. : any of a class of immunoregulatory proteins (as interleukin, tumor necrosis factor, and
1 Chapter 13: Cytokines Definition: secreted, low-molecular-weight proteins that regulate the nature, intensity and duration of the immune response by exerting a variety of effects on lymphocytes and/or other cells.- Cytokines bind to specific receptors on target cells. 
cytokine. [sī′təkīn]. one of a large group of low-molecular-weight proteins secreted by various cell types and involved in cell-to-cell communication, coordinating antibody and T cell immune interactions, and amplifying immune reactivity. cytokine. any of many small, secreted proteins such as erythropoietin, G-CSF, interferon, interleukins, that bind to cell surface receptors and transduce signals leading to the differentiation or proliferation of cells.
Cytokine Definition. Cytokines are a large group of proteins, peptides or glycoproteins that are secreted by specific cells of immune system. Cytokines are a category of signaling molecules that mediate and regulate immunity, inflammation and hematopoiesis. Cytokines are produced throughout the body by cells of diverse embryological origin. Cytokine is a general name; other names are defined based on their presumed function, cell of secretion, or target of action.
They are released by cells and affect the behavior of other cells. Cytokines can also be involved in autocrine signaling. Cytokines include chemokines, interferons, interleukins, lymphokines, tumour necrosis factor but generally not hormones or growth factors (despite some terminologic overlap). Part of the difficulty with distinguishing cytokines from hormones is that some of the immunomodulating effects of cytokines are systemic rather than local. For instance, to use hormone terminology, the action of cytokines may be autocrine or paracrine in chemotaxis or chemokinesis and endocrine as a pyrogen.