Tetanus is caused by the Clostridium tetani bacterium. Clostridium tetani spores are able to survive for a long time outside of the body. They are most commonly found in animal manure and contaminated soil, but may exist virtually anywhere.
Tetanus is a potentially deadly infection of the nervous system caused by bacteria known as Clostridium tetani (C. tetani). Tetanus can occur when spores of these bacteria enter the body through an open wound that comes in contact with soil contaminated with the bacteria.
Tetanus: Tetanus (sometimes called lockjaw) is caused by the toxin (poison) of a bacterium. The bacteria can enter the body through a tiny ... more about Tetanus. Tetanus: A disease caused by chemicals which are produced by a bacterium (clostridium tetani) and are toxic to the nerves.
Tetanus is an infection caused by bacteria called Clostridium tetani. Tetanus bacteria are everywhere in the environment, including soil, dust and manure.
Tetanus (or lockjaw) is a serious infection caused by Clostridium tetani bacteria which produce a toxin that affects the brain and nervous system. The toxin leads to stiffness in the jaw muscles as well as other muscles.
Tetanus is a serious bacterial infection that affects the nervous system and causes muscles throughout the body to tighten. Tetanus is also commonly called lockjaw, because the infection primarily causes muscle contractions in the jaw and neck, but can eventually spread to other parts of the body. Without treatment, tetanus infection can be life-threatening. Approximately 10 to 20 percent of tetanus infections are fatal (CDC).
Tetanus is caused by bacteria called Clostridium tetani that can be found in dust, dirt, and animal droppings. A person can become infected when these bacteria enter the bloodstream through a cut or deep wound.
Causes of Tetanus. The old wives' tale is true -- stepping on a rusty nail has the potential to cause tetanus. But so can a perfectly clean nail, a sewing needle or a scratch from an animal. Tetanus is caused by bacteria known as Clostridium tetani, which is commonly found in soil, dust and animal feces.