Research shows folate (folic acid), another important component of the B-vitamins, is important for a healthy pregnancy, reducing your risk of serious birth defects of the spine and brain, also known as neural tube defects. 
There are three ways women can get enough folic acid. They can choose to: 1  Take a vitamin supplement containing 400 micrograms of folic acid daily, or. 2  Eat a fortified breakfast cereal daily which contains 100% of the recommended daily anount of folic acid (400 micrograms). 
Folic acid is a type of B vitamin that is normally found in foods such as dried beans, peas, lentils, oranges, whole-wheat products, liver, asparagus, beets, broccoli, brussels sprouts, and spinach. Folic acid helps your body produce and maintain new cells, and also helps prevent changes to DNA that may lead to cancer. As a medication, folic acid is used to treat folic acid deficiency and certain types of anemia (lack of red blood cells) caused by folic acid deficiency. Folic acid is sometimes used in combination with other medications to treat pernicious anemia.
They also help the nervous system function properly. Folic acid is the synthetic form of B9, found in supplements and fortified foods, while folate occurs naturally in foods. All the B vitamins are water-soluble, meaning the body does not store them. Folic acid is crucial for proper brain function and plays an important role in mental and emotional health. Pregnant women need more folic acid to lower the risk of neural tube birth defects, including cleft palate, spina bifida, and brain damage. Neural tube defects are birth defects caused by abnormal development of the neural tube, a structure that eventually gives rise to the brain and spinal cord.
Overview. Vitamin B9, also called folate or folic acid, is one of 8 B vitamins. All B vitamins help the body convert food (carbohydrates) into fuel (glucose), which is used to produce energy. These B vitamins, often referred to as B-complex vitamins, also help the body use fats and protein. Pregnant women need more folic acid to lower the risk of neural tube birth defects, including cleft palate, spina bifida, and brain damage. Neural tube defects are birth defects caused by abnormal development of the neural tube, a structure that eventually gives rise to the brain and spinal cord.
Folic acid or folate is a B vitamin. It is also referred to as vitamin M, vitamin B9, vitamin Bc (or folacin), pteroyl-L-glutamic acid, and pteroyl-L-glutamate. Children and adults both require folate to produce healthy red blood cells and prevent anemia. Folate and folic acid derive their names from the Latin word folium, which means leaf. Folates occur naturally in many foods and, among plants, are especially plentiful in dark green leafy vegetables.
Folic Acid and Vitamins. Folic acid is a B vitamin. It is used in our bodies to make new cells. If a woman has enough folic acid in her body before she is pregnant, it can help prevent major birth defects of her baby’s brain and spine. These birth defects are called neural tube defects or NTD
Folic acid is synthetically produced, and used in fortified foods and supplements on the theory that it is converted into folate. However, folic acid is a synthetic oxidized form, not significantly found in fresh natural foods. Children and adults both require folate to produce healthy red blood cells and prevent anemia. Folate and folic acid derive their names from the Latin word folium, which means leaf. Folates occur naturally in many foods and, among plants, are especially plentiful in dark green leafy vegetables.
Most over-the-counter multi-vitamins contain the necessary amount of folic acid. Women, and men, are also encouraged to eat foods rich in folate, the type of folic acid found in foods, in addition to taking a multivitamin with folic acid every day. Folic acid is a B vitamin. It is used in our bodies to make new cells. If a woman has enough folic acid in her body before she is pregnant, it can help prevent major birth defects of her baby’s brain and spine.
Folate and folic acid are forms of a water-soluble B vitamin. Folate occurs naturally in food, and folic acid is the synthetic form of this vitamin. Since 1998, folic acid has been added to cold cereals, flour, breads, pasta, bakery items, cookies, and crackers, as required by federal law. 1 Some research shows that taking folic acid with other vitamins including vitamin B6 and vitamin B12 reduces the risk of developing age-related vision loss. 2  Depression. 3  Limited research suggests that taking folic acid along with antidepressants seems to improve symptoms in people with depression. 4  High blood pressure.