You will need: 1  Verizon landline phone/mobile phone. 2  List of numbers you want to block. 3  Computer/laptop. 4  Internet connection. 5  Verizon online customer account. 6  Use the call block service on your landline phone. 7  Verizon subscribers can also block a number on their cell phones.
Dial star 60 (*60). You will receive instructions for call blocking, and you need to follow the prompts to add a new number to your block list, add the last number that dialed you to your block list, remove a number from your block list, or edit/change a number on your block list.
1 Verizon subscribers can also block a number on their cell phones. 2  You need to create an account from the Verizon website. 3  Log on to your customer account and choose the “My Verizon” tab. 4  Then select the “My Services” option. 5  Look for the “Verizon Safeguards” option and select the “Spam Controls” tab.
1 Use the call block service on your landline phone. 2  Make a list of the specific numbers you want to block on your landline phone before you start activating the call block feature for Verizon. 3  To set up your call block list, just lift the receiver and wait to hear the dial tone.
1 Make a list of the specific numbers you want to block on your landline phone before you start activating the call block feature for Verizon. 2  To set up your call block list, just lift the receiver and wait to hear the dial tone. 3  Dial *60 (if you are using a pulse-dialing phone you should dial 1160 instead).
About. Find out how to block unwanted calls and messages. You can block up to 5 phone numbers for each line on your account with no charge with My Verizon. After watching the video, open your Block Calls & Messages page in My Verizon. Sign in if you haven't already, then easily add numbers to block.
1 Verizon online customer account. 2  Use the call block service on your landline phone. 3  Make a list of the specific numbers you want to block on your landline phone before you start activating the call block feature for Verizon. 4  To set up your call block list, just lift the receiver and wait to hear the dial tone.