Restaurants and food processors must pay employees to prepare food and then to get it to customers, either by serving tables or by delivering packaged product at a wholesale or retail level. The food service industry labor cost standard is typically about a third of gross sales. However, this number is subject to multiple variables including the type of foodservice business, the average sale, and the overall sales volume. Labor costs are typically expressed as a percentage of overall revenue. But the relationship between the amount of food that a food service business sells and the amount of labor that it requires rarely breaks down into a simple correlation.
Restaurants whose average ticket totals between $15 and $25 typically spend 33.2 percent of gross sales on labor expenses. These numbers are close enough to indicate that labor costs are relatively consistent throughout the restaurant industry, regardless of the level of service that a establishment provides. Labor costs are typically expressed as a percentage of overall revenue. But the relationship between the amount of food that a food service business sells and the amount of labor that it requires rarely breaks down into a simple correlation.
This is the total amount you spent in a payroll cycle on labor and is your labor cost. For example, if a restaurant has payroll expenses of $4,000, plus $306 in FICA taxes, $600 for unemployment coverage and $444 in worker's compensation, its total labor cost is $5,350 for the period. Step 10. Measure your labor costs as a percentage of sales to ensure you’re not overstaffed. 1 Many restaurants seek to keep labor costs at about 20 percent of total sales, according to Food Service Warehouse. 2  If your labor cost percent is higher, you may be wasting money by overstaffing. 3  View your labor cost as a percentage of total sales on an hourly or shift-by-shift basis
Divide the weekly payroll figure by your total weekly sales. If your restaurant brought in $28,157 and you spent $5,350 on labor, your labor cost percentage would be about 19 percent, or $5,350 divided by $28,157. 1 Many restaurants seek to keep labor costs at about 20 percent of total sales, according to Food Service Warehouse. 2  If your labor cost percent is higher, you may be wasting money by overstaffing. 3  View your labor cost as a percentage of total sales on an hourly or shift-by-shift basis
Varying industry standards put labor costs between 30 to 35 percent of the restaurant's total sales. The standard for manager salaries should be around 10 percent of total labor costs, leaving 20 to 25 percent of labor costs for hourly employees. Labor costs tend to fluctuate depending on your restaurant's busy and slow seasons, so it's a good idea to average your weekly labor costs to obtain your monthly labor cost
Increasing staff productivity can decrease overall labor costs. Steve Baccon/Digital Vision/Getty Images. Labor costs are typically the second-highest cost in the food service industry, after food and beverage costs. Keeping labor costs under control is one of the most important factors of a restaurant's profitability. The standard for manager salaries should be around 10 percent of total labor costs, leaving 20 to 25 percent of labor costs for hourly employees.
Overall Labor Cost. According to the 2010 Restaurant Industry Operations Report compiled by the National Restaurant Association, restaurants whose average ticket runs $15 and under or $25 and over typically spend 33.7 percent of their gross sales revenue on labor. Labor costs are typically expressed as a percentage of overall revenue. But the relationship between the amount of food that a food service business sells and the amount of labor that it requires rarely breaks down into a simple correlation.
Certain fast food restaurants can achieve labor cost as low as 25 percent, while table service restaurants are more likely to see labor in the 30 percent to 35 percent range. If, at the same restaurant, labor (including payroll taxes and benefits) equal $5,000 for the week, then the labor cost is 25 percent. Total prime costs are 60 percent in this example. Related Reading: How to Control Cost of Food & Labor in a Restaurant Service.
How Food and Labor Costs are Calculated. Food and labor costs are calculated as a percentage of the total volume of sales. If a restaurant does $20,000 per week and the total cost of food and beverages is $7,000 for that week, then the food cost is considered 35 percent. If, at the same restaurant, labor (including payroll taxes and benefits) equal $5,000 for the week, then the labor cost is 25 percent. Total prime costs are 60 percent in this example. Related Reading: How to Control Cost of Food & Labor in a Restaurant Service.