National Average Cost. According to statistics compiled by HomeAdvisors.com, the U.S. national average price for central air installation in 2013 ranges from $2,000 (basic) to over $10,000 (top quality). HomeAdvisors.com based these statistics off actual project costs reported by members who contributed 7,325 cost profiles. 
The price to install central air conditioner units with heating unit is between $6,500 and $15,000. The HVAC installation costs are for complete heating and cooling system and labor cost. To get little more accurate price in your area, check out the links below. If we paid HVAC contractor $5,700.00 to replace central air conditioner units with furnace I would said that good deal. Central air cost with duct work. To install central air conditioner units with duct work is between $10,000 and $15,000 or more. There are some areas that will charge less.
Central Air Average Costs. The actual cost of central air installation depends on a number of factors, including the size of the home as well as the unit’s tonnage and SEER rating. 1  In a 2,000 square foot home with existing ductwork, central air conditioning costs $3,000 to $5,000 installed. 1 In a 2,000 square foot home with existing ductwork, central air conditioning costs $3,000 to $5,000 installed. 2  If ductwork is additionally required, costs could reach $6,000 to $10,000 or more. 3  Mini-split central air conditioner prices average $1,500 to $3
For example, homes with forced hot air heating will have the duct work necessary for a fast and easy installation, when the project involves the running of ducts however the prices climb significantly. The average price to install a central air conditioner will range from $2650 to upwards of $15K. This installation cannot be considered a DIY project, and it is traditional for a homeowner to hire a contractor for the job. For a central air conditioning installation, the basic points of payment include: 1  Contractor-this will be the individual who performs the manual J assessment of the home to determine the appropriate size for the unit(s).
Additional considerations and costs. Total costs for a central air conditioning system will depend upon the size of the home, the number of windows, the quality of the insulation, and the tonnage and SEER rating of the unit selected for installation as well. For a central air conditioning installation, the basic points of payment include: 1  Contractor-this will be the individual who performs the manual J assessment of the home to determine the appropriate size for the unit(s).
Pricing for air conditioning will vary depending on a number of factors, but, in the long run, it will always be a better option than sticking to window air units. The national average cost is between $4,500 and $6,200, but it could be much higher (or lower) depending on your individual situation. If you are installing an air conditioner for the first time, then making sure that all of this ductwork is in place can get costly. Generally, ductwork can tack on additional $2,000 to $3,000, and that will vary depending on the home. However, if you are simply replacing your air conditioning unit, then there may be little to no added cost for this component. Adding other updates, like a new thermostat, may also increase the total price
The cost to install a window air conditioner averages between $150 and $300, depending on the size you need. Installing a window air conditioning unit can bring added comfort for a reasonable price, but it will be less powerful than a central air conditioning system. Most homeowners report spending between $3,675 and $7,155 to have air conditioning installed. This price is more typical of a central A/C unit installation rather than a window air conditioner addition which typically averages about $300. Your total cost for the job will depend on the type of system you choose