Characteristics of Phylum Porifera. Sponges have a variety of shapes. Some form crusts, some are simple tubes, some are vase shape while others can be cup shaped, massive clumps, fan shaped, finger like bulges, treelike or even bushy. They maybe soft, brittle or hard. They do not have a definite symmetry.
General Characteristics of Phylum Porifera. 1  An example is the sponge. 2  It's common name is the  pore-bearing  animal. 3  The body develops from two (2) cell layers. 4  It is asymmetrical. 5  It's a free-living organism. 6  Body is covered with pores. 7  They are sessile. 8  They have special cells for digestion and support.
1 Most of them are marine while a few are fresh water forms. 2  Body is cylindrical, asymmetrical or has radial symmetry. 3  Body wall is diploblastic which consists of an outer layer called pinacoderm and an inner layer called choanoderm. 4  The middle layer is called mesenchyme which has various kinds of wandering amoebocytes.
Well, the term Porifera is actually the scientific name given to the group of organisms known commonly as sponges. But, unlike SpongeBob, living sponges are neither square in shape nor in interest-they are actually a really important and diverse phylum within the animal kingdom.
General Characteristics of Porifera. 1  Poriferans are commonly called sponges. 2  These are multicellular organisms which are sessile/sedentary in nature. 3  Most of them are marine while a few are fresh water forms. 4  Body is cylindrical, asymmetrical or has radial symmetry.
Other characteristics of sponges include a system of pores (also called ostia) and canals, through which water passes. Water movement is driven by the beating of flagellae, which are located on specialized cells called choanocytes (collar cells).
Nutrition in sponges is done by the presence of ostia that is found on top of the sponge as a pore or opening. There are numerous pores by means of which water and other plankton enter the sponge body. They are also used to control water flow through the spongocoel (body cavity).
1 Poriferans are commonly called sponges. 2  These are multicellular organisms which are sessile/sedentary in nature. 3  Most of them are marine while a few are fresh water forms. 4  Body is cylindrical, asymmetrical or has radial symmetry.