Blood cultures are used to detect the presence of bacteria or fungi in the blood, to identify the type present, and to guide treatment. Testing is used to identify a blood infection (septicemia) that can lead to sepsis, a serious and life-threatening complication.
Positive blood cultures and diagnosis of bacterial meningitis in cases with negative culture of cerebrospinal fluid. Fuglsang-Damgaard D(1), Pedersen G, Schoenheyder SCHøNHEYDER. Hc author: (information)1 department Of Clinical, Microbiology Aalborg, Hospital Aarhus University, Hospital, Aalborg. denmark
A blood culture is done to: 1  Find a bacterial infection that has spread into the blood, such as meningitis, osteomyelitis, pneumonia, a kidney infection, or sepsis. 2  A culture can also show what type of bacteria is causing the infection. 3  Find a fungal infection, such as yeast, in the blood.
A blood culture is done to: 1  Find a bacterial infection that has spread into the blood, such as meningitis, osteomyelitis, pneumonia, a kidney infection, or sepsis. 2  Find a fungal infection, such as yeast, in the blood. 3  Check for endocarditis, which is an infection of the valves of the heart. 4  Find the best antibiotics to kill the bacteria or fungi. 5  F
If one blood culture set is positive and one set is negative, it may mean that an infection or skin contaminant is present. The health practitioner will consider the person's clinical status and the type of bacteria or fungi found before making a diagnosis.
Other tests that may be done include: 1  Complete blood count, to check for signs of infection. 2  Blood culture, to check for infections. 3  Urine test, to check for infection in the urinary tract. 4  Chest X-ray, to check for lung infections. 5  Biopsy of a skin rash.
In general, whenever the diagnosis of meningitis is strongly considered, a lumbar puncture should be promptly performed. Examination of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is the cornerstone of the diagnosis. The diagnosis of bacterial meningitis is made by culture of the CSF sample.
A health practitioner may order blood cultures when a person has signs and symptoms of sepsis, which indicates that bacteria, fungi, or their toxic by-products are causing harm in the body. A person with sepsis may have: