Fill the pot gently with at least one inch (3 cm) of water. Pour the water against the side of the pan so that it does not disturb the eggs. If you cannot avoid pouring the water onto the eggs, steady them with your hand so that they do not slide around and crack. 1  Add half a teaspoon of salt to the water. Bring the water to a gentle boil using a medium heat. Let the water boil slowly so that the eggs do not crack from a rapid temperature shift. Cover the pot with a lid. The water will boil a bit more quickly with the lid on, but feel free to leave it off if you want to keep an eye on the eggs.
Find a pan large enough to hold all of the eggs you want to boil in a single layer. I then cover that layer of eggs with cold water. The operative word is cold water, not hot from the tap but cold from the tap. Bring that pan of water to a rolling boil for one minute. I then remove the pan from the heat and wait. You want to wait until the water has cooled enough for you to handle the eggs. That usually is 20-30 minutes depending upon your threshold of pain.
Best Answer: First, put them in the pan gently then cover with water, to just about an inch above the eggs. Put them on the stove, put the lid on the pot, turn the heat to high. When steam starts coming from the pot, turn off the heat and set the timer for 14 minutes. What I do is fill a pan with warm water and place in the eggs along with 1-2tb of salt. Do not put the eggs in when the water is boiling. Turn on high. Once it comes to a boil, time it for 10 minutes for a hard boiled egg. Rinse and let sit in cold water.
L.A. Times Test Kitchen and Food Editor Russ Parsons’ tip is simple. Place the eggs in a pan just big enough to hold them in a single layer, Parsons said. Cover them with cold water and bring them to a rolling boil. Cook for one minute, then remove them from the heat. When the water has cooled enough that you can put your hand in (about 20 minutes), the eggs will be perfectly cooked.. Here’s why this method works: Cold water and placing the eggs in a single layer helps prevent cracking. Tips and tricks on how to boil the perfect Easter eggs without cracking them in 2014. Flickr
If you need easy-to-peel eggs and you have fresh eggs, you might want to try steaming the eggs for 15 minutes. Pour an inch of water into a pot and insert a steamer basket.Bring to a boil. Place the eggs in the steamer basket, cover and steam for 15 minutes (more or less, check!). Heat the pot on high heat and bring the water to a full rolling boil. Adding a teaspoon of vinegar to the water may help keep egg whites from running out if an egg does crack while cooking. Also some people find adding 1/2 teaspoon of salt to the water helps prevent cracking as well as making the eggs easier to peel.
Put eggs into a pan of cold water and bring the eggs to a boil. Cover the pan with a lid and remove the pan from the heat. Let the pan stand for 25 minutes. Rinse the eggs under cold water. 
Here is the way I cook my own perfect hard boiled eggs…. 1  Using a heavy bottomed saucepan, cover the eggs with cold water by at least an inch of water. 2  Bring the water to a boil uncovered. 3  Once boiling, remove the pot from the heat and cover it. 4  Let the pot sit for about 15 minutes. 
2. Turn off the heat, keep the pan on the hot burner, cover, and let sit for 10-12 minutes. If you have the type of stove burner that doesn't retain any heat when turned off, you might want to lower the temp to low, simmer for a minute, and then turn it off. Heat the pot on high heat and bring the water to a full rolling boil. Adding a teaspoon of vinegar to the water may help keep egg whites from running out if an egg does crack while cooking. Also some people find adding 1/2 teaspoon of salt to the water helps prevent cracking as well as making the eggs easier to peel.
How to hard boil eggs without cracking them to later color for Easter eggs is the simplest of your Easter Recipes. The eggs should be thoroughly hard boiled if you intend to later conduct an Easter egg hunt with the hard boiled eggs that your family dyed for Easter.1. 
PLACE eggs in saucepan large enough to hold them in single layer. ADD cold water to cover eggs by 1 inch. HEAT over high heat just to boiling. REMOVE from burner. COVER pan. LET EGGS STAND in hot water about 12 minutes for large eggs (9 minutes for medium eggs; 15 minutes for extra large).