1 For a building contract between $3,500 and $20,000, a deposit can be no greater than 10%. 2  Deposits can be negotiated for works costing less than $3,500. These regulations have been put in place for your protection and are based on the reasonable payments builders need to meet their own obligations. Your building contract should include your initial deposit, progress payments and much more.
Some contractors ask for deposits, some don’t. What ever you agree on, make sure it is in the contract. . . . so both parties understand. I think the best answer to this question is, the law in the state I live in, a contractor is limited to a deposit of 10% of the contract and not to exceed $1,000. It is up to you to know those laws and negotiate a deposit with your roofer, that is fair and both parties feel comfortable with. On an average size roof, that just takes a few days, most contractors may ask for a small deposit and the balance on completion. Some may just ask for the full payment at the end of the job
This varies by the contractor. At no time should you pay all money up front. I usually charge 50% up front to schedule and begin work on smaller jobs under $6-8,000 with the remaining due at completion or 50% up front and 1/4 payment midway, the rest when completed. 
Before you sign any contract with the builder or tradesperson you should: 1  make sure there's nothing in your contract which makes you responsible for termite control instead of the builder or tradesperson. 2  ensure that progress payments listed on the contract are for work actually done and not time on the job. However, if the job is several thousand dollars or more, it is reasonable for the builder or tradesperson to ask you to make progress payments. This is usually so they can pay for materials and labour as the job progresses. All contracts over $20,000 in value must have a progress payment schedule.
When building or renovating, your builder will require a deposit before commencing work. Unfortunately, some unscrupulous builders try to take advantage of customers by asking for more than they are legally entitled to. There are laws in place regarding deposits and progress payments for building work. Here's what you need to know. These regulations have been put in place for your protection and are based on the reasonable payments builders need to meet their own obligations. Your building contract should include your initial deposit, progress payments and much more.
It is what you and your landlord agree on. Usually, a security deposit is equal to one month’s rent. This does not have to be the case. The money is paid to the landlord with your first month's rent. You should pay the security deposit by a separate personal check or by a bank money order. If you pay by check, you should write security deposit on it. This receipt should say that it is a receipt for the deposit. Save your canceled check, the carbon copy of your money order, or the receipt that you received from your landlord. These steps will protect you when you move out. Your landlord will not be able to keep your security deposit to pay for damage that you did not cause. IMPORTANT: Before you move out, you should have a witness inspect the apartment with you again. If you can, take photos.
1 You can be asked to pay no more than a 5% deposit for domestic building works over $20,000. 2  For a building contract between $3,500 and $20,000, a deposit can be no greater than 10%. 3  Deposits can be negotiated for works costing less than $3,500. These regulations have been put in place for your protection and are based on the reasonable payments builders need to meet their own obligations. Your building contract should include your initial deposit, progress payments and much more.