Each state has different laws on the resale of used mattresses. Not all states require these mattresses to be labeled – or allow anything but the mattress springs to be reused. In some states, used mattresses can be resold when sanitized or disinfected and covered with new cotton or linen ticking. To find out the laws for your state, contact the department of health, consumer affairs, licensing or agriculture.
The sale of used mattresses fall under specific state and federal laws. To identify a used or rebuilt mattress, look for a yellow, red -- or both -- labels attached to the mattress in states that require them for used mattress resale. In some states, used mattresses can be resold when sanitized or disinfected and covered with new cotton or linen ticking. To find out the laws for your state, contact the department of health, consumer affairs, licensing or agriculture.
Unless you have a local ordinance prohibint it, it is not illegal. State laws allow the sell of used furniture. The consumer protection laws require disclosures to be made, such that the mattress sets could not be advertised as new if they were used. This type of law is covered by state health and sanitation laws.
Of course it's legal to sell a used mattress! Depending on where you sell it and who you sell it to. What I mean buy that is you couldn't sell it legally in the black market a … nd you can't sell a used mattress and tell the buyer that its a new one.
California, for example, prohibits the sale of used mattresses with visible stains or soiling. Used mattresses that contain yellow tags indicate that the mattress has been sanitized and clean. The red label defines the contents of a rebuilt mattress and the types and amounts of used material in the mattress. In some states, used mattresses can be resold when sanitized or disinfected and covered with new cotton or linen ticking. To find out the laws for your state, contact the department of health, consumer affairs, licensing or agriculture.
Some states also require that retailers selling used mattresses display a license from the appropriate state department that allows them to sell these products. In Georgia and other states, for example, it is against the law to sale a used mattress as if it were a new one. In some states, used mattresses can be resold when sanitized or disinfected and covered with new cotton or linen ticking. To find out the laws for your state, contact the department of health, consumer affairs, licensing or agriculture.
In the State of Texas a retailer MUST carry a permit to sell used mattresses in their store. This permit requires that the retailer maintains a separate area where used mattresses are treated with a specific germicidal treatment that is authorized and designated by the State of Texas. In addition to mattresses, the State of Texas requires that any item that has the possiblity of being slept on is also treated. These include: 1  Futon Mattresses. 2  Sleeper Mattresses. 3  Recliners. 4  Reclining Sofas/Loveseats. 5  Chaise Lounges.