Explain the structure of a mucous membrane. Mucous membranes are: - epithelial membranes that line body surfaces opening directly to the exterior, such as the lining of the respiratory, digestive, urinary, and reproductive tracts. 
In vertebrates, mucus (/mjuːkəs/ MYOO-kəss; adjectival form : mucous) is a slippery secretion produced by, and covering, mucous membranes. Mucous fluid is typically produced from cells found in mucous glands. 
A mucous membrane has mucus secreting cells in it (often called goblet cells) - and mucous is formed from complex chains of proteins and sugars that create a sticky mass (usually clear). These membranes line surfaces that are in potential contact with the environment. 
10 most extreme places on Earth. A mucous membrane is a layer of epithelial tissue which lines an area of the body which comes into contact with air. Mucous membranes are moist because of the presence of glands which secrete a thick fluid known as mucus, and they are important for a number of bodily functions. The interior lining of the nose is a mucous membrane. Healthy lung function is aided by a thin mucus lining. The mucous membrane that lines the urogenital tract can make someone vulnerable to infections passed between sexual partners. Mucosa is commonly found in the respiratory tract.
Cells in mucous membranes manufacture mucus and proteins important in defense against bacteria, viruses, fungi, allergens and a variety of irritant particulates. Mucus is a clear slippery fluid that coats the respiratory membranes of the sinuses, nose and lungs. Mucus consists of water, blood cells, digestive enzymes, salt, antibodies, dead cells, bacteria and other microorganisms and foreign pollutants. Respiratory mucous membranes. Mucous membranes line all of the bony surfaces of the sinus cavities. The lining is similar to the surface lining of the nasal passageways and airways of the lungs. The surface of this membrane is lined with microscopic cilia.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A mucous membrane or mucosa (plural, mucosae or mucosas; Latin tunica mucosa) is a lining of mostly endodermal origin. It consists of an epithelium (a layer, or layers of epithelial cells) and an underlying lamina propria of loose connective tissue. In the female, the glans clitoridis and the clitoral hood have mucous membranes. In the male, the glans penis (the head of the penis) and the inner layer of the foreskin
Definition. Mucous is the adjectival form of the more familiar noun, mucus. In other words, mucous is actually the action or ability to make the yucky stuff we blow into tissue, which is mucus. There are mucous cells, mucous fluid, mucous membranes, and mucous glands. They are all different objects that can secrete mucus. 
The urethra is also lined with a mucous membrane. Some mucous membranes are involved with digestion in the absorption of insoluble food molecules and secretion (releasing chemicals from glands). The thick fluid secreted by some mucous membranes and/or associated glands is termed mucus. The mucus can be protective. In the female, the glans clitoridis and the clitoral hood have mucous membranes. In the male, the glans penis (the head of the penis) and the inner layer of the foreskin
Patents. A pharmaceutical composition is provided for the protection of the oesogastroduodenal mucous membrane, which composition has an active antacid component comprising sufficient guar gum to provide antacid and buffering effect at a pH of from 0.8 to 3.5, and at least one antacid agent other than guar gum...
They are found in your nose and in your mouth also around your eyes. Mucous membranes are tissues that line body cavities or canals such as the throat, nose, mouth, urethra, rectum, and vagina. Mucous membranes produce a thick, slippery liquid called mucus that protects the membranes and keeps them moist. 