The answer is that drinking green tea provides many health benefits, including: 1  heart health— drinking tea is associated with lowering one's risk of heart attack and stroke. 2  bone health— antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activity of green tea help diminish bone loss. If you are experiencing symptoms of the change in life we call menopause (technically it is perimenopause), drink green tea! Remember to steer clear of HRT (hormone replacement therapy) because it too is associated with increased risk of breast cancer.
The body breaks down the caffeine in green tea to get rid of it. Estrogens can decrease how quickly the body breaks down caffeine. Taking estrogen pills and drinking green tea can cause jitteriness, headache, fast heartbeat, and other side effects. If you take estrogen pills, limit your caffeine intake. Some estrogen pills include conjugated equine estrogens (Premarin), ethinyl estradiol, estradiol, and others
Green tea is made from the unfermented leaves of the Camellia sinensis plant that is native to East Asia. It is a popular beverage in many parts of the world. It is produced by the ovaries and regulates the menstrual cycle. Low estrogen levels commonly occur during menopause and may lead to symptoms such as hot flashes, night sweats, vaginal dryness and mood swings.
The body breaks down the caffeine in green tea to get rid of it. Birth control pills can decrease how quickly the body breaks down caffeine. Taking green tea along with birth control pills can cause jitteriness, headache, fast heartbeat, and other side effects. Estrogens can decrease how quickly the body breaks down caffeine. Taking estrogen pills and drinking green tea can cause jitteriness, headache, fast heartbeat, and other side effects. If you take estrogen pills, limit your caffeine intake.
Just as important, and the subject of this blog, is that green tea can help balance your hormones. The biochemicals in green tea can change a woman's estrogen metabolism, and as you may know, estrogen dominance is undeniably linked to breast cancer. If you are experiencing symptoms of the change in life we call menopause (technically it is perimenopause), drink green tea! Remember to steer clear of HRT (hormone replacement therapy) because it too is associated with increased risk of breast cancer.
It will help metabolize estrogen and can help in the prevention of breast cancer. If you are pre-menopausal, drink green tea! Even though it will not have the same cancer-reducing results, green tea still has wonderful health benefits. Try other, more natural remedies for PMS symptoms, instead of using the birth control pill (which increases risk of breast cancer). If you are experiencing symptoms of the change in life we call menopause (technically it is perimenopause), drink green tea! Remember to steer clear of HRT (hormone replacement therapy) because it too is associated with increased risk of breast cancer.
The body breaks down the caffeine in green tea to get rid of it. Estrogens can decrease how quickly the body breaks down caffeine. Taking estrogen pills and drinking green tea can cause jitteriness, headache, fast heartbeat, and other side effects. If you take estrogen pills limit your caffeine intake. The caffeine in green tea can stimulate the body. Some medications used for depression can also stimulate the body. Drinking green tea and taking some medications for depression might cause too much stimulation of the body and serious side effects including fast heartbeat, high blood pressure, nervousness, and others.
Green tea may help lower estrogen levels in the body. Photo Credit Jupiterimages/Comstock/Getty Images. Estrogen is a hormone that is essential for the normal sexual and reproductive development of women. It is produced by the ovaries and regulates the menstrual cycle. Low estrogen levels commonly occur during menopause and may lead to symptoms such as hot flashes, night sweats, vaginal dryness and mood swings. They may also indicate other conditions including atherosclerosis and osteoporosis
Do not confuse green tea with oolong tea or black tea. Oolong tea and black tea are made from the same plant leaves used to make green tea, but they are prepared differently and have different medicinal effects. Green tea is not fermented at all. Oolong tea is partially fermented, and black tea is fully fermented. The caffeine in green tea can stimulate the body. Some medications used for depression can also stimulate the body. Drinking green tea and taking some medications for depression might cause too much stimulation of the body and serious side effects including fast heartbeat, high blood pressure, nervousness, and others.