Rhetoric is the study of effective speaking and writing. And the art of persuasion. And many other things. In its long and vigorous history rhetoric has enjoyed many definitions, accommodated differing purposes, and varied widely in what it included. 
Plato 427 347 BC. Rhetoric s issues power, manipulation, relationship to truth. Plato s view: rhet has potential for harm and for good thus there is a sense of moral responsibility here, and Plato sees this morality as an essential, universal good that must be discovered through language. Irony: Plato s arguments against rhetoric are fine examples of efficient rhetoric. Geo Kennedy calls Plato a Consummate rhetorician for this very reason. His treatment of the sophists in his Gorgias is relentless.
For Plato and Aristotle, dialectic involves persuasion, so when Aristotle says that rhetoric is the antistrophe of dialectic, he means that rhetoric as he uses the term has a domain or scope of application that is parallel to, but different from, the domain or scope of application of dialectic. Rhetoric as a course of study has evolved significantly since its ancient beginnings. Through the ages, the study and teaching of rhetoric has adapted to the particular exigencies of the time and venue. The study of rhetoric has conformed to a multitude of different applications, ranging from architecture to literature.
The areas of study known as rhetoric and philosophy have a contentious history stretching back thousands of years. Yet, many of the issues they engage are either complementary or identical. Those studying rhetoric and philosophy engage in a synthetic study of human knowledge, value, and action in a way different from those scholars working in the fields of rhetoric or philosophy proper.
The Great Thinkers on Rhetoric. Sometimes one word can mean a lot of different things. Rhetoric is one of those words. Throughout history, many of the greatest minds had different things to say about this concept. For example, ancient Greek philosopher Plato defined rhetoric as 'the art of winning the soul by discourse.' He thought that rhetoric was a philosophy rather than an art and that it was actually an unnecessary tool. Plato was concerned with the truth, not the ability to persuade. 
Rhetoric (pronounced /ˈrɛtərɪk/) is the art of discourse, an art that aims to improve the capability of writers or speakers to inform, persuade, or motivate particular audiences in specific situations. Rhetoric as a course of study has evolved significantly since its ancient beginnings. Through the ages, the study and teaching of rhetoric has adapted to the particular exigencies of the time and venue. The study of rhetoric has conformed to a multitude of different applications, ranging from architecture to literature.
In the rhetoric field, there is an intellectual debate about Aristotle's definition of rhetoric. Some believe that Aristotle defines rhetoric in On Rhetoric as the art of persuasion, while others think he defines it as the art of judgment. Rhetoric as a course of study has evolved significantly since its ancient beginnings. Through the ages, the study and teaching of rhetoric has adapted to the particular exigencies of the time and venue. The study of rhetoric has conformed to a multitude of different applications, ranging from architecture to literature.
The writers who can satisfy more than one audience are all too few. Philosophy and Rhetoric provides a rare forum in which writers are encouraged to practice something more than the same old professional disabilities.. For over 40 years, Philosophy and Rhetoric has published some of the most influential articles on relations between philosophy and rhetoric.
The following is an extract from Peter G. Platt: Shakespeare and Rhetorical Culture.. George Kennedy has suggested what is at stake in [the] debate between philosophy and rhetoric, truth and persuasion: The disagreement between Plato and the sophists over rhetoric was not simply an historical contingency, but reflects a fundamental cleavage between two irreconcilable ways of viewing the world. 
Aristotle's Rhetoric has had an enormous influence on the development of the art of rhetoric. Not only authors writing in the peripatetic tradition, but also the famous Roman teachers of rhetoric, such as Cicero and Quintilian, frequently used elements stemming from the Aristotelian doctrine. 1 Rhetoric and dialectic are concerned with things that do not belong to a definite genus or are not the object of a specific science. 2  Rhetoric and dialectic rely on accepted sentences (endoxa). 3  Rhetoric and dialectic are not dependent on the principles of specific sciences.