Biblical Meaning: The name Zephaniah is a Biblical baby name. In Biblical the meaning of the name Zephaniah is: The Lord is my secret. Hebrew Meaning: The name Zephaniah is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Zephaniah is: The Lord has concealed; the Lord has protected; treasured by God. 
The most well-known Biblical figure bearing the name Zephaniah is the son of Cushi, and great, great grandson of King Hezekiah, ninth in the literary order of the minor prophets. He prophesied in the days of Josiah, king of Judah (B.C. 641-610), and was contemporary with Jeremiah, with whom he had much in common. 
Meaning of Zephaniah. Hebrew name. In Hebrew, the name Zephaniah means-The Lord has concealed; the Lord has protected; treasured by God.. Other origins for the name Zephaniah include-Hebrew, Israeli.The name Zephaniah is most often used as a boy name or male name. Hebrew Name Meaning-The Lord has concealed; the Lord has protected; treasured by God. Origin-Hebrew.
But treasure up for you treasures in Heaven, where neither moth nor rust cause to vanish, and where thieves do not dig through and steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. (Matthew 6:19-21). For a meaning of the name Zephaniah, NOBSE Study Bible Name List reads Hidden Of Yahweh. Jones' Dictionary of Old Testament Proper Names reads Hid Of The Lord. The name Zephaniah in the Bible. There are four men named Zephaniah in the Bible: 1  A son of Cushi, and author of the Book of Zephaniah (written around 630 BC). 2  A musician in the days of David (1 Chronicles 6:36).
Meaning & History. From the Hebrew name צְפַנְיָה (Tzefanyah) meaning  YAHWEH has hidden. This is the name of one of the twelve minor prophets of the Old Testament, the author of the Book of Zephaniah. Expand Name Links. 
Zephaniah /ze-pha-ni-ah/ [4 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Zephaniah is hidden by God . Biblical: a minor prophet. Zephaniah is an uncommonly occurring first name for males. Zephaniah is an equivalently uncommon last name too for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Zephaniah for boys. Zephaniah has not been recorded in the list so far
The name Zephaniah is a baby boy name. The name Zephaniah comes from the Hebrew origin. In Hebrew The meaning of the name Zephaniah is: The Lord has concealed; the Lord has protected; treasured by God. Similar Names: 1  Stephania (Greek)
A minor prophet who has his own Book, Zephaniah is another Old Testament gem waiting to be rediscovered now that Noah and Abraham are becoming too trendy. While the vowel-sound ending of Zephaniah is classically feminine, ancient boys' names with softer sounds -- think Asher and Elijah -- are very much in fashion. 
The name Zephaniah means Stored By (For) Yah, and reminds of the words of Jesus : Do not treasure up for you treasures on the earth, where moth and rust cause to vanish, and where thieves dig through and steal. The name Zephaniah in the Bible. There are four men named Zephaniah in the Bible: 1  A son of Cushi, and author of the Book of Zephaniah (written around 630 BC). 2  A musician in the days of David (1 Chronicles 6:36).