If you have defaulted, chances are your life cover has lapsed. Of course, insurers provide a grace period after the deadline for premium payments expires. This period is 15 days for monthly premiums and 30 days for other duration premiums. Life Insurance is essentially a contract between you and the insurance company. Herein, you can revive: Term and Whole Life Insurance and Endowment Plans within 2 years. Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) allows 5 year revival durations for certain policies. Nevertheless, revive policies within 6 months of lapse to avoid higher premiums, larger interests, and hefty penalties.
Well, for reviving a lapsed policy, you need to pay the unpaid premiums along with the interest. In certain cases, you may also have to undergo health checkup. As a result your policy lapses and you end up losing life cover. Primarily there are two kinds of insurance policies. One type of policy is simple insurance without any investment, also called as term policy. The other type is an insurance policy with investment option. In case of the former, if you fail to pay the premium regularly, you can say the policy has lapsed. Lapsing of insurance policy is quite common
Meaning of Lapsed Life Insurance Policy – When you fail to pay the premium of your life insurance policy within the given timeframe (including the grace period), your life insurance policy lapses. When your policy lapses the benefits attached to it turn null and void. However, insurers like LIC give you an opportunity to revive your lapsed policy in five years under special schemes. In case you own a Unit Linked Insurance Policy then the revival process at your disposal is of 45 days.
When the insurance premium is not paid on time, all benefits of the policy stops and the policy becomes a Lapsed Policy. The insurance premium needs to be paid on the due date or within the grace period. If the premium is further delayed, then the policy becomes dead which means Lapsed in the insurance language. The most important question is how to revive the lapsed insurance policy in case of failed in paying the premium. It is one of the most common problems for the policyholder; they may miss the due date for several reasons and tend to revive the policy later.
Life insurance is one of the most important things and if your life insurance policy lapses due to one reason or the other, it is a matter of great concern. Learn here how to revive a lapsed insurance policy. However, insurers like LIC give you an opportunity to revive your lapsed policy in five years under special schemes. In case you own a Unit Linked Insurance Policy then the revival process at your disposal is of 45 days.
Normally there is one month grace period for the insurance premium due. One has to pay the premium before end of the grace period to avoid the policy lapse. If the premium paid within six months, policyholder can pay the premium with 8% interest to revive the policy before six months of time. The most important question is how to revive the lapsed insurance policy in case of failed in paying the premium. It is one of the most common problems for the policyholder; they may miss the due date for several reasons and tend to revive the policy later.
Here are three ways in which you can revive your policy: Ordinary revival: If you opt to revive the policy within six months from the period of first unpaid premium, you need not give any personal statement on the condition of your health. As a result your policy lapses and you end up losing life cover. Primarily there are two kinds of insurance policies. One type of policy is simple insurance without any investment, also called as term policy. The other type is an insurance policy with investment option. In case of the former, if you fail to pay the premium regularly, you can say the policy has lapsed. Lapsing of insurance policy is quite common
Lapsed Policy A policy which is no longer in force due to non-payment of the premium due. Every time, before your premium due date, ICICI Prudential will send you a premium reminder with the premium amount and due date. 1 If the policy have been lapsed less than six months, it can be revived by paying the premium along with the applicable interest charges. 2  If the policy have been lapsed for more than six months, the life assured would once again have to go through medical tests.
Some insurers like LIC have special schemes under which policies can be revived for up to five years from being lapsed. If you revive the policy within six months from the date of lapsation, the process might be as simple as paying the overdue premium and interest to catch up on the delay on your part. The most important question is how to revive the lapsed insurance policy in case of failed in paying the premium. It is one of the most common problems for the policyholder; they may miss the due date for several reasons and tend to revive the policy later.