3. Type the username or full name of the user you would like to find. When you've found the search bar on either the Explore tab or the Profile tab, click it and type in your search query. If you're looking for a specific person, this should be his or her username or real name. You should now see a list of Instagram users that appear in your contacts list. Scroll through this list and click Follow next to each user that you'd like to receive updates from on Instagram. 1  Alternatively, click Follow All at the top of the list to automatically send a follow request to every user.
We can help you find and follow your Facebook friends and phone or tablet contacts who are already on Instagram. Android. 1  Go to your profile and then tap in the top right. 2  Tap Find Friends to choose to find friends from Facebook, from your phone's contact list or from a list of suggested Instagrammers. Windows Phone. 1  Go to your profile and then tap in the botom right. 2  Tap Settings. 3  Tap Find & Invite Friends and then choose Follow your friends to find friends from Facebook or from your contact list. 4  Tap Suggested users to see people whose posts you may like.
1 First, tap the profile image on the bottom right of the screen (looks like a contact card), then select “Find Friends”. 2  You can search to see if your Facebook and Twitter friends are using Instagram, as well as search friends from your phone’s Contact List. 1 You can search to see if your Facebook and Twitter friends are using Instagram, as well as search friends from your phone’s Contact List. ( 2 This will help you find the friends you are already connected with on Facebook and Twitter.).
iPhone/iPad. 1  Go to your profile and then tap in the top right. 2  Tap Find People to Follow to choose to find friends from Facebook, from your phone's contact list or from a list of suggested Instagrammers. 3  Tap Follow next to people whose posts you want to see in your Feed. Windows Phone. 1  Go to your profile and then tap in the botom right. 2  Tap Settings. 3  Tap Find & Invite Friends and then choose Follow your friends to find friends from Facebook or from your contact list. 4  Tap Suggested users to see people whose posts you may like.
1 Go to your profile and then tap in the top right. 2  Tap Find People to Follow to choose to find friends from Facebook, from your phone's contact list or from a list of suggested Instagrammers. 3  Tap Follow next to people whose posts you want to see in your Feed. Windows Phone. 1  Go to your profile and then tap in the botom right. 2  Tap Settings. 3  Tap Find & Invite Friends and then choose Follow your friends to find friends from Facebook or from your contact list. 4  Tap Suggested users to see people whose posts you may like.
1 You also may have friends that aren’t on Facebook or Twitter, but DO have an instagram account. 2  You can search for these friends by selecting “search instagram” from the profile tab as well. 3  You can search either by name, username or search through Instagram tags to find people sharing photos you might enjoy. 1 You can search to see if your Facebook and Twitter friends are using Instagram, as well as search friends from your phone’s Contact List. ( 2 This will help you find the friends you are already connected with on Facebook and Twitter.).
Android. 1  Go to your profile and then tap in the top right. 2  Tap Find Friends to choose to find friends from Facebook, from your phone's contact list or from a list of suggested Instagrammers. 3  Tap Follow next to people whose posts you want to see in your Feed. Windows Phone. 1  Go to your profile and then tap in the botom right. 2  Tap Settings. 3  Tap Find & Invite Friends and then choose Follow your friends to find friends from Facebook or from your contact list. 4  Tap Suggested users to see people whose posts you may like.
1 Go to your profile and then tap in the top right. 2  Tap Find People to Follow to choose to find friends from Facebook, from your phone's contact list or from a list of suggested Instagrammers. 3  Tap Follow next to people whose posts you want to see in your Feed. Windows Phone. 1  Go to your profile and then tap in the botom right. 2  Tap Settings. 3  Tap Find & Invite Friends and then choose Follow your friends to find friends from Facebook or from your contact list. 4  Tap Suggested users to see people whose posts you may like.
1 You can search either by name, username or search through Instagram tags to find people sharing photos you might enjoy. 2  Lastly, you can find friends by tapping the “popular” tab to see some of the most interesting photos on Instagram. 1 You can search to see if your Facebook and Twitter friends are using Instagram, as well as search friends from your phone’s Contact List. ( 2 This will help you find the friends you are already connected with on Facebook and Twitter.).