A four-year Bachelor of Social Work (BSW) is required for entry into the field in most parts of Canada. In Alberta, the entry-level requirement is the diploma in social work practice. A Master's degree in Social Work (MSW) is usually required to provide psychotherapy treatment. A social worker, practicing in the United States, usually requires a doctoral degree (Ph.D or DSW), master's degree (MSW) or a bachelor's degree (BSW or BASW) in social work from a Council on Social Work Education (CSWE) accredited program to receive a license in most states.
To become a social worker you will need to study a three-year undergraduate degree or a two-year postgraduate degree in social work that is approved by the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC). You will also need to pass background checks by the Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS). To become a social worker in England, you will need to take
An MSW can be undertaken with any undergraduate degree, though some programs may require certain prerequisite coursework in related areas, such as psychology and sociology, for applicants not holding a BSW. The MSW is required to become a clinical social worker or to work in schools or the healthcare system. These degree programs typically take two years to complete (though some programs offer more flexible 3 and 4-year degree plans) and prepare students for advanced practice in their specialties. In addition, a Masters in Social Work (MSW) is a very versatile degree which can be used as a stepping stool for other career tracks including public health and policy. Most entry-level positions require a Bachelor of Social Work (BSW). An MSW is necessary for other positions, including that of clinical social worker.
How to Become a Social Worker. Although most social workers need a bachelor’s degree in social work, clinical social workers must have a master’s degree and two years of post-master experience in a supervised clinical setting. Clinical social workers must also be licensed in the state in which they practice. For example, clinical social workers must have a master’s degree in social work and two years of post-master experience in a supervised clinical setting. A master’s degree in social work generally takes 2 years to complete.
Entry requirements. To become a social worker in England, you will need to take a three-year undergraduate degree or a two-year postgraduate degree in social work that is approved by the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
Also, most colleges and universities require that you complete a college admissions exam (ACT or SAT) for admission. The baseline educational requirement to become a social worker is a Bachelor's degree, usually in Social Work or a related field. A four-year degree program is comprised of both coursework and a minimum number of hours (usually 400 for accredited programs) of supervised experience in the field. 
Education and training/entrance requirements. In order to become a social worker you will need to complete a degree in social work that is approved by the Australian Association of Social Workers (AASW). The following degrees are approved by AASW as providing eligibility for membership. 