The Human Genome Project was an international research project that sequenced all of the genes found in humans. This ambitious project began in 1990 and concluded in 2003. 
Human Genome Project. A scientific research project designed to study and identify all of the genes in the human genome, to determine the base-pair sequences in human DNA, and to store this information in computer databases. The Human Genome Project began in the United States in 1990. Thesaurus AntonymsRelated WordsSynonymsLegend:
n. An international scientific research project that was conducted between 1990 and 2003 to determine the base-pair sequences in human DNA and to store this information in computer databases for the subsequent identification and analysis of genes and other features of the genome. A scientific research project designed to study and identify all of the genes in the human genome, to determine the base-pair sequences in human DNA, and to store this information in computer databases. The Human Genome Project began in the United States in 1990. Thesaurus AntonymsRelated WordsSynonymsLegend:
noun. An international scientific research project that was conducted between 1990 and 2003 to determine the base-pair sequences in human DNA and to store this information in computer databases for the subsequent identification and analysis of genes and other features of the genome. A bioinformatics project that has identified the 30,000 genes in human DNA. Coordinated by the U.S. Department of Energy and the National Institutes of Health, the U.S. Human Genome Project started in 1990 and released its findings in February 2001 along with findings from a separate project by Celera Genomics Group.
Logo. The Human Genome Project (HGP) was an international scientific research project with the goal of determining the sequence of chemical base pairs which make up human DNA, and of identifying and mapping all of the genes of the human genome from both a physical and functional standpoint. The project did not aim to sequence all the DNA found in human cells. It sequenced only euchromatic regions of the genome, which make up about 90% of the genome. The other regions, called heterochromatic are found in centromeres and telomeres, and were not sequenced under the project.
Part of the Computing fundamentals glossary: The Human Genome Project is a global, long-term research effort to identify the estimated 30,000 genes in human DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) and to figure out the sequences of the chemical bases that make up human DNA. Findings are being collected in database s that researchers share.
The Human Genome Project originally aimed to map the nucleotides contained in a human haploid reference genome (more than three billion). The genome of any given individual is unique; mapping the human genome involves sequencing multiple variations of each gene. The project did not aim to sequence all the DNA found in human cells. It sequenced only euchromatic regions of the genome, which make up about 90% of the genome. The other regions, called heterochromatic are found in centromeres and telomeres, and were not sequenced under the project.
an international effort, begun in the late 1980s, for mapping the sequence and analyzing the structure of all the DNA in the human genome. It is producing a very large amount of genetic information. Ethics has been a major concern in all aspects of the project, including development, design, and implementation. 
The Human Genome Project was an international project that mapped and sequenced the entire human genome. Completed in April 2003, data from the project are freely available to researchers and others interested in genetics and human health. 