Best Answer: Implantation usually occurs 6-8 days after ovulation. That would be between days 20-22 in a 28 day cycle. Some women will notice a spot or two of blood after implantation. This is called implantation bleeding. I had spotting around a week to 10 days after I supposedly ovulated. I never spot like this. It happened on Sunday and Monday, not red at all. It was a very little each day, not throughout the entire day, I don&#39;t think. What I&#39;m not sure of is how soon before your period does the...
If you have normal 28 day cycles, you wouldn’t have ovulated yet. Ovulation usually occurs about 14 days before your period starts. Unless you had a really weird cycle this month, the chances of you being pregnant from the sex 5 days ago is pretty slim. Definitely your ex. Takes at least 3-4 days after implantation to get a positive result on a HPT. So to be the new guy it would have had to be at least 10 days before you got a + and you only had 6. Little one wouldn’t have even implanted yet.
Implantation typically occurs 6 to 10 days after ovulation, or day 20 to 24 of a menstrual cycle. However, it can happen a few days earlier or later. In an average 28-day cycle, ovulation occurs on day 14 with the first day of a woman's period being considered day 1 in a cycle. Once fertilization occurs, the egg stays in the fallopian tube for three days before entering the uterus and begins to implant itself to the uterine lining.
1 Implantation Spotting or Bleeding-A very small amount of spotting or implantation bleeding may occur for a short period of time, around 7 to 10 days after ovulation has taken place. In an average 28-day cycle, ovulation occurs on day 14 with the first day of a woman's period being considered day 1 in a cycle. Once fertilization occurs, the egg stays in the fallopian tube for three days before entering the uterus and begins to implant itself to the uterine lining.
Report Abuse. Implantation bleeding usually occurs 7-10 days after ovulations, so about 4-7 days before your missed period. But that is just the average. Def could be implantation bleeding though. I'd personally wait until at least the 25th to take the test. 
Implantation bleeding does not occur with every woman. Usually only about 30% of women will experience implantation bleeding. You will usually see implantation bleeding 4 to 7 days before your period is due if you are one of the 30%. Definitely your ex. Takes at least 3-4 days after implantation to get a positive result on a HPT. So to be the new guy it would have had to be at least 10 days before you got a + and you only had 6. Little one wouldn’t have even implanted yet.
Answer   Implantation bleeding can occur, on average, 6-12 days after ovulation. So, bleeding can occur before your period or around the same time as your next one is due … . (9 month pregnancy then sometime before your next period) Once the egg is fertilized and implants, you won't have a period. This is called pregnancy. ing the spirit of the question: You can't use your next period as a marker for anything except indicating you aren't pregnant.
Implantation bleeding … is more likely to occur before, during the time of, or a day or two after your missed period. It is quite a stretch to have it appear 9 days after a missed period. If you are having bleeding/spotting and you have already confirmed pregnancy, there are a few reasons why you may be spotting. 1. (9 month pregnancy then sometime before your next period) Once the egg is fertilized and implants, you won't have a period. This is called pregnancy. ing the spirit of the question: You can't use your next period as a marker for anything except indicating you aren't pregnant.
1 Remember the date of your last period. 2  With a stable menstrual cycle of 28-30 days, ovulation occurs on the 13 th -16 th day and implantation is possible within the next 10 days after ovulation. 3  Implantation bleeding may be experienced 2-7 days before the beginning of the regular menstruation. Implantation bleeding starts approximately in a week before period. Thus, bloody discharge after ovulation is likely to indicate possible conception. Bloody discharge after missed period is in question, the majority of gynecologists claim it`s impossible. 1  Character of the bloody discharge.