Your Family’s Carbon Footprint. 1. You will calculate the amount of carbon dioxide you and your family release into the atmosphere each year—your carbon footprint. 2. You will identify ways for you and your family to. reduce your carbon footprint. 3
1 You can get a quick, rough estimate of your carbon footprint by using U.S. average values. 2  They are provided (along with other useful information) in the tool tips throughout the calculator. 3  For a more accurate estimate, use your own numbers. About. 1  Many of our daily activities-such as using electricity, driving a car, or disposing of waste-cause greenhouse gas emissions. 2  Together these emissions make up a household's carbon footprint. 3  The calculator estimates your footprint in three areas: home energy, transportation and waste.
reduce your individual carbon footprint. A whopping 50,000 pounds a year! That’s the average American's total carbon footprint which includes the emissions from your home, car, air travel and everything you use. We are all responsible for climate change and we all must be part of the solution. You can be a leader in the fight against climate change: make a tax-deductible donation to offset your carbon footprint and support our industry-leading carbon reduction projects. Thank you!
We encourage everyone to think about their lifestyle decisions and find opportunities to reduce their climate impact. You can get partway to carbon neutrality through how you live your life, i.e., reducing your carbon footprint, and get the rest of the way there by supporting Carbonfund.org’s carbon offset projects. Here are some good ways to start. Reduce the Carbon Footprint of Your Travel. A lot of our emissions come from just being inefficient or not deliberate with our daily decisions. Every day think about how you could reduce the miles you drive and pretty soon you’ll start identifying lots of opportunities: Combine your trip with another.
how to reduce your carbon footprint. Reduce What You Can, Offset What You Can’t.™. That’s our motto, and we’re proud of it. Everyone has a responsibility to reduce their individual carbon footprint, and there are lots of ways to do so. Reduce the Carbon Footprint of Your Travel. A lot of our emissions come from just being inefficient or not deliberate with our daily decisions. Every day think about how you could reduce the miles you drive and pretty soon you’ll start identifying lots of opportunities: Combine your trip with another.
How To. 1  You can get a quick, rough estimate of your carbon footprint by using U.S. average values. 2  They are provided (along with other useful information) in the tool tips throughout the calculator. 3  For a more accurate estimate, use your own numbers. About. 1  Many of our daily activities-such as using electricity, driving a car, or disposing of waste-cause greenhouse gas emissions. 2  Together these emissions make up a household's carbon footprint. 3  The calculator estimates your footprint in three areas: home energy, transportation and waste.
1 Many of our daily activities-such as using electricity, driving a car, or disposing of waste-cause greenhouse gas emissions. 2  Together these emissions make up a household's carbon footprint. 3  The calculator estimates your footprint in three areas: home energy, transportation and waste. About. 1 
The Cost of Carbon , we've come up with a list of 10 actions you can take to reduce your carbon footprint. The 24 Hours of Reality broadcast streams live from Los Angeles on Oct. 22 and 23, beginning at 2 p.m. ET on Tuesday. Plant a Tree. This classic way to give back to the environment is one of the most efficient ways you can cut your carbon footprint. Trees provide shade and oxygen while consuming carbon dioxide.
25+ Ways to Reduce Your Carbon Footprint. Offsetting your unavoidable CO2 emissions is a practical and immediate way to take ownership of your personal contribution to climate change. 1 Avoid roof-top boxes, which cost much more, increase aerodynamic drag, and decrease fuel economy. 2  Driving style. 3  Speeding and unnecessary acceleration reduce mileage by up to 33% , waste gas and money, and increase your carbon footprint.