Reagan escalated the Cold War with the Soviet Union, marking a sharp departure from the policy of detente détente by his Predecessors Richard, Nixon Gerald, ford And Jimmy. carter The Reagan administration regarded New Zealand's anti-nuclear stance as incongruous with its Cold War policy of only conducting strategic arms reductions from a position of strength.
The foreign policy of the Ronald Reagan administration was the foreign policy of the United States from 1981 to 1989. It was characterized by a strategy of  peace through strength  followed by a warming of relations with the Soviet Union, and resulting in an end to the Cold War when Mikhail Gorbachev rose to power. The Reagan administration regarded New Zealand's anti-nuclear stance as incongruous with its Cold War policy of only conducting strategic arms reductions from a position of strength.
By the end of his second term, Reagan's hard-line foreign policy had produced significant results. His summit meetings with reform-minded Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev yielded the first treaties in history reducing the nuclear arsenals of both nations. Such breakthroughs did not come without stumbling blocks, however. Like many of his contemporaries, Ronald Reagan formed his opinions about America's role in the world based on the experiences and outcome of World War II.
page 1 of 3. When Reagan became President he had only one well-defined foreign policy goal: containing the Soviet Union, or the evil empire as he once referred to it. For the first time since the beginning of the Cold War, a Soviet leader approached the United States to seriously discuss a possible peace. This initiative took the Reagan administration completely by surprise, but Reagan quickly responded in kind.
The invasion of the Caribbean island Grenada in 1983, ordered by President Reagan, was the first major foreign event of the administration, as well as the first major operation conducted by the military since the Vietnam War. The Reagan administration regarded New Zealand's anti-nuclear stance as incongruous with its Cold War policy of only conducting strategic arms reductions from a position of strength.
Among the most pressing foreign affairs problems facing the U.S. during Reagan's tenure was the activity of various rogue terrorist organizations. In 1980, Reagan campaigned on a pledge to take a firm stand on terrorism. Under his watch, he promised, the U.S. would never negotiate with terrorists. Like many of his contemporaries, Ronald Reagan formed his opinions about America's role in the world based on the experiences and outcome of World War II.
The domestic policy of the Ronald Reagan administration was the domestic policy in the United States from 1981 to 1989 under President Ronald Reagan. Though Ronald and Nancy Reagan were both former actors and he had served as president of the Screen Actor's Guild, his administration had a curiously mixed record on support for the arts. Via a 1982 Executive Order, President Reagan established the President's Committee on the Arts and Humanities.
A deeper understanding of Ronald Reagan’s foreign policy doctrine is essential for three reasons beyond its historical significance. First, many of Reagan’s critics and revisionist defenders have distorted his record and the lessons to be derived from it. Throughout the presidential campaign of 1980, Carter attempted constantly to portray Ronald Reagan as a warmonger whose policies would provoke a dangerous arms race and possibly war. Thereafter, Carter vehemently opposed President Reagan’s national security strategy in all of its dimensions.
Foreign Policy: 1981–1989. When Reagan became President he had only one well-defined foreign policy goal: containing the Soviet Union, or the evil empire as he once referred to it. For the first time since the beginning of the Cold War, a Soviet leader approached the United States to seriously discuss a possible peace. This initiative took the Reagan administration completely by surprise, but Reagan quickly responded in kind.
Ronald Reagan’s grand strategy, adapted to the challenges of the 21st century, provides the most prudent framework for America’s foreign and national security policy, as well as the standard of measure for judging all candidates for national office. Throughout the presidential campaign of 1980, Carter attempted constantly to portray Ronald Reagan as a warmonger whose policies would provoke a dangerous arms race and possibly war. Thereafter, Carter vehemently opposed President Reagan’s national security strategy in all of its dimensions.