Listeners. read more. Svetlana Ražnatović (maiden Veličković), also known as Ceca (pronounced Tsetsa) (Serbian: светлана цеца величковић-ражнатовић, Svetlana Ceca Veličković-Ražnatović) was born on June 14, 1973, in Žitorađa, Yugoslavia (now Serbia). 
Started career as professional chef then a district sales manager for a wine & spirits company. Retired in 2005, breeding Araucana chickens. The ceca in the digestive tract of chickens is used for water absorption and trace minerals.
X. By browsing this website, you accept the use of cookies, which helps us provide you with services and offers matching your centers of interest and compile visitor statistics. 
CECA. Welcome to the Committee for Education and Cultural Action (CECA), one of the oldest International Committees of ICOM. With over 1,000 members coming from about 85 countries, CECA is also one of its largest Committees. 
Ceca-Dobro sam prosla - (Audio 2013) HD-Duration: 3 minutes, 35 seconds. Ceca-Turbulentno - (Audio 2013) HD-Duration: 3 minutes, 16 seconds.
The cecum or caecum (/ˈsiːkəm/ , plural ceca /ˈsiːkə/ ; from the Latin caecus meaning blind) is an intraperitoneal pouch, that is considered to be the beginning of the large intestine. It receives chyme from the ileum, and connects to the ascending colon of the large intestine. It is separated from the ileum by the ileocecal valve (ICV) or Bauhin's valve. It is also separated from the colon by the cecocolic junction. The appendix is connected to the cecum. While the cecum is usually intraperitoneal, the ascending colon is retroperitoneal. In herbivores, the cecum stores food material where bacteria are able to break down the cellulose.
who we are ceca is a nonprofit organization of professionals interested in promoting the use of technology throughout schools in connecticut ceca sponsors the only major statewide educational technology conference in connecticut every fall ceca sponsors seminars and workshops throughout the year
CECA vs FTA. • CECA and FTA are both economic agreements that are intended to boost trade between countries. • While CECA is bilateral, FTA normally involves a group of countries that have geographical and cultural similarities. • Both aim to boost trade by gradual elimination of barriers, quotas and preferences. CECA vs FTA. International trade, though now a days guided by the rules and regulations of World Trade Organization, is not free from protectionism in the form of trade barriers.