If you plan to install the washer and dryer in a closet or recessed space, allow a minimum of 18 inches above each unit, recommends Maytag. You can reduce this minimum clearance to 12 inches when using a stacked washer and dryer in a closet or recess.
1 Width: Keep in mind that washers and dryers need 1 inch of space on either side for air circulation. 2  Depth: Add 6 inches of space for door clearance, dryer vents and hookups. 3  Height: Top loaders need an added 20 inches of above-machine clearance for the door.
Wide Loads. The average washer or dryer each measures 27 inches wide, so you'll need at least 54 inches of space just to fit the units themselves. Lowe's Home Improvement recommends adding 1 inch on each side of each of these appliances to allow for proper air circulation, for a total width of 57 inches.
Lowe's also recommends allowing 48 inches of free space in front of your washer and dryer so you have room to move freely when working in your laundry room. Top-loading washers average 36 inches in height, while front-loaders vary from 34 to 39 inches.
Measure your new washer and dryer. Add 1 inch to the width on each side of both machines for air circulation. For depth, add at least 6 inches for plumbing, electrical and vent connections. Add 20 inches to the height measurement for top-loading washers. A stackable unit is useful in a compact space but will require more room for height. To give yourself a clear pathway with room to move around open doors, leave at least 48 inches of clearance in front of the
Measure Your Space. 1  Width: Keep in mind that washers and dryers need 1 inch of space on either side for air circulation. 2  Depth: Add 6 inches of space for door clearance, dryer vents and hookups. 3  Height: Top loaders need an added 20 inches of above-machine clearance for the door.
Washers measure 25 to 28 inches deep, while dryers can vary from 25 to 32 inches in depth. Sears suggests leaving 2 inches free behind the washer to accommodate water hoses, plus 4 inches behind the dryer for ventilation.