The deposit is usually a percentage of the cost of the property. The total cost of which depends on the location, size and other factors about the property itself. You can see … more deposits on our website. The ideal downpayment is usually 20%, but there are some programs that offer less than this. Rock sediments are deposited at the bottom of a body of water, such  as a river or lake. When the flow of water changes direction, the  sediment has different momentum, so i … t does not change direction as  fast, and it will collide with the river bank and then settle
Some form ore deposits if the fluids are directed through a structure where the temperature, pressure and other chemical conditions are favourable for the precipitation and deposition of ore minerals. 1 You can only upload files of type PNG, JPG, or JPEG. 2  You can only upload files of type 3GP, 3GPP, MP4, MOV, AVI, MPG, MPEG, or RM. 3  You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB. 4  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: B, hydrothermal solutions is the best answer. To make a vein however a better answer would be hydrothermal intrusions. To make a vein a hydrothermal solution must intrude upon some existing body, it must intrude upon it. 1 You can only upload files of type PNG, JPG, or JPEG. 2  You can only upload files of type 3GP, 3GPP, MP4, MOV, AVI, MPG, MPEG, or RM. 3  You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB. 4  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB.
vein deposits are usually produced by a. cementation and compaction b. hydrothermal solutions c. weathering d. density sorting. Vein deposits are usually produced by hydrothermal solutions. Question and answer. vein deposits are usually produced by a. cementation and compaction b. hydrothermal solutions c. weathering d. density sorting. Vein deposits are usually produced by hydrothermal solutions. B. hydrothermal solutions is the answer.
A great many valuable ore minerals, such as native gold or silver or metal sulphides, are deposited along with gangue minerals, mainly quartz and/or calcite, in a vein structure. A vein system is a group of discrete veins with similar characteristics and usually related to the same structure. *ribbon structures parallel to vein walls. *includes 'porphyry' copper type deposits. *extensive alteration zones with varying amounts of sericite, quartz, calcite,doIomite, pyrite, orthoclase, chlorite and clay minerals.
1 From 1880 to about 1960 the grade of copper ore showed a steady decrease from about 3% to less than 1%, mainly due to increased efficiency of mining. 2  From about 1960 to 1980 the grade increased to over 1% due to increasing costs of energy and an abundant supply produced by cheaper labor in other countries. 
© A Dictionary of Earth Sciences 1999, originally published by Oxford University Press 1999. vein deposit An ore body that is confined within a sheet-like structure, as a result of magmatic activity or deposition from circulating groundwater. The deposit is usually narrow but persistent. It may pinch and swell and has well-defined walls. 
Vein-type Deposits. Definitions. A vein-type deposit is a fairly well defined zone of mineralization, usually inclined and discordant, which is typically narrow compared to its length and depth. Most vein deposits occur in fault or fissure openings or in shear zones within country rock. *ribbon structures parallel to vein walls. *includes 'porphyry' copper type deposits. *extensive alteration zones with varying amounts of sericite, quartz, calcite,doIomite, pyrite, orthoclase, chlorite and clay minerals.