Delta Air Lines announced the company increased its free checked baggage allotment for U.S. Military traveling on orders in Economy Class to four checked bags. Delta's revised baggage policy also allows U.S. military personnel traveling on orders in First and Business Class to check up to five bags at no charge. Click for details of Delta's baggage policy. Soldiers returning home from Afghanistan have Tough Questions for Delta Airlines. They wanted to know why they had to pay almost $3,000 in baggage fees on their way back to the states.
American Airlines is, and has been, the leading airline in supporting active service members. The previous policy allowed active military personnel, traveling on duty, to travel with up to 190 pounds of luggage at no charge, including a 100 pound checked bag, a 50 pound checked bag, and a 40 pound carry-on bag. As part of the many efforts American Airlines makes to support our active and veteran U.S. military personnel, fees for a third checked bag will now be waived for active service members. Fees for first and second checked bags have always been waived.
1 The second and third bags are free of charge up to 50lbs. and 62 inches. 2  Travel orders must be presented when checking the bag. 3  The 70 lb. maximum bag weight limit for Europe and Asia does not apply for U.S. military baggage if traveling on orders. 4  Military ID must be presented. 5  Traveling in uniform is not required. Military Baggage. 1  Active U.S. Military personnel are allowed to check three pieces of baggage free of charge (changing to 5 pieces). 2  Each checked bag in the free allowance may be up to 62 inches and weigh up to 50 lbs.
United/Continental also announced Wednesday it will allow more bags. United and Continental are waiving the fourth checked bag fee for military personnel traveling on orders in recognition of their sacrifice and service to our country, Christen David, a spokeswoman for United/Continental Airlines, said in an e-mail. 1 NEW: AirTran Airways waives bag fees for active-duty military. 2  Soldiers back from Afghanistan said Delta charged their unit $2,800 to check extra bags. 3  American will go to five free checked bags for military personnel, up from three.
In addition, the first checked bag fee is waived for flights starting or ending in Guadalajara or Mexico City. Active duty U.S. military and their dependents can check up to 5 bags (up to 70 lbs each) for free. Credit cards: Both American and US Airways offer credit cards that give you a free checked baggage allowance: 1  US Airways World MasterCard: first bag free for cardholders plus up to 4 companions on domestic US Airways-operated flights.
1 Delta Air Lines: Military fares must be booked in person or by phone. 2  Active duty military members traveling on orders may check up to four bags on Delta Connection flights for free, and two free checked-bags for personal travel. 3  Dependents and family members are also eligible for discounts. 1 See www.aa.com/military for more information. 2  Delta Air Lines: Military fares must be booked in person or by phone. 3  Active duty military members traveling on orders may check up to four bags on Delta Connection flights for free, and two free checked-bags for personal travel.
If you are: 1) active duty U.S. military personnel on orders to or from duty stations and dependents traveling with them; or 2) active U.S. military dependents traveling on relocation orders, you may check the following at no charge: 1  Up to four bags in Main Cabin on Delta and in all cabins on Delta Connection flights. One golf bag may be accepted as checked baggage, and overweight fees will apply to bags that exceed 50 lbs. For detailed information on traveling with sports equipment, see Special Items.
1 Active U.S. Military personnel traveling on orders are allowed one bag in the free allowance up to 100 lbs. and 115 inches. 2  The second and third bags are free of charge up to 50lbs. and 62 inches. 3  Travel orders must be presented when checking the bag. Military Baggage. 1  Active U.S. Military personnel are allowed to check three pieces of baggage free of charge (changing to 5 pieces). 2  Each checked bag in the free allowance may be up to 62 inches and weigh up to 50 lbs.