You may be a candidate for a Visian ICL™ if you are between 21 and 45 years of age and have moderate to severe nearsightedness. In addition, there must be no significant changes to your vision in the last year and no history of eye surgery or eye diseases such as glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy or infections to the iris. 
You Must Be Over a Certain Age. Certain procedures require you to be 18; others, 21. Patients younger than these ages can be treated as an exception at the discretion of the LASIK surgeon with permission from the patient's parent(s) or guardian. Generally there is no upper age limit to laser eye surgery. However, it is important to note that once you hit your 40s, you may still need reading glasses to correct near vision due to a normal, age-related condition called presbyopia
However, a patient must be at least 18 years old before undergoing the procedure. Having fully developed eyes is vital for a successful procedure, and before 18 years of age it is unlikely that you will be a successful candidate. In fact, many surgeons prefer patients be in their 20s. It depends on the surgeon and the particular patient, as each person’s eyes may develop slightly differently. It’s also important to have stable vision prior to undergoing Houston laser eye surgery to achieve an optimal, lasting outcome.
In all cases, the eyes must be stable. No matter how old you are, your prescription needs to have been without change for at least two years. The most popular technique for this age is Lasik, with the laser eye surgery techniques of PRK, LASEK and Epi-Lasik considered for specific circumstances. If the patient has very high refractive error or very thin corneas, a phakic intraocular lens lens (P-IOL) may be appropriate.
Suitability explained further…. No, there is no upper age limit for laser surgery, as long as your eyes are healthy. Some older patients experience a longer healing period after laser surgery, but we can discuss this with you at your initial screening. Mr Glenn Carp explains at present we do not believe there is an upper age limit. But extensive screening process at London Vision Clinic highlights suitability for laser eye surgery regardless of age.
The FDA requires patients to be at least 18 years old and to have a stable prescription. There is no upper age limit, although in patients in their 60’s and older, we look closely for cataracts since cataract surgery may be a more immediate need. 
5. Certain procedures require you to be 18; others, 21. Patients younger than these ages can be treated as an exception at the discretion of the LASIK surgeon with permission from the patient's parent(s) or guardian. Generally there is no upper age limit to laser eye surgery. However, it is important to note that once you hit your 40s, you may still need reading glasses to correct near vision due to a normal, age-related condition called presbyopia
At present we believe there is no upper age limit for laser eye surgery providing that the eye is healthy and that the patient is healthy so all patients at the London Vision Clinic undergo extensive ocular review. Mr Glenn Carp explains at present we do not believe there is an upper age limit. But extensive screening process at London Vision Clinic highlights suitability for laser eye surgery regardless of age.
As long as your eyes are health and suitable for treatment, there is no legal upper age limit for laser eye surgery. However, Optical Express and Optimax have a policy of not providing surgery to patients who are older than 70. There are three main reasons why those over 70 are not suitable for laser eye surgery. Yes. You have to be at least 18 to be able to have laser eye surgery. As mentioned above this is because your prescription must be stable for 1 -2 years prior to surgery. Although 18 is the minimum age limit it is more important that you have a stable prescription and healthy eyes befor