Adoption of specific EBP competencies for nurses and advanced practice nurses (APNs) who practice in real-world healthcare settings can assist institutions in achieving high-value, low-cost evidence-based health care. The establishment of evidence-based practice competencies for practicing registered nurses and advanced practice nurses in real-world clinical settings: proficiencies to improve healthcare quality, reliability, patient outcomes, and costs. Melnyk BM(1), Gallagher-Ford L, Long LE, Fineout-Overholt E. Author information:
Michael A. Kolodziej, MD. Emerging as one of the many pieces to the puzzle is the adoption of pathways based on evidence-based medicine (EBM). It has long been theorized that the use of standardized care models not only improves the quality of care, but also reduces costs and makes costs more predictable. One way in which EBM can help reduce the costs of cancer care is by optimizing the appropriate use of less expensive drugs. When pathways are developed, it will often be found that evidence supports the use of less expensive therapies, without compromising outcomes or increasing toxicity.
Background: Clinical pathways are structured multidisciplinary care plans used by health services to detail essential steps in the care of patients with a specific clinical problem. They aim to link evidence to practice and optimize clinical outcomes while maximizing clinical efficiency. Objectives: To assess the effect of clinical pathways on professional practice, patient outcomes, length of stay, and hospital costs.
However, until last year’s study of the use of EBM pathways in patients with non–small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) revealed that evidence-based care resulted in an average cost-savings of 35% over 12 months and equivalent outcomes,[1] there was limited evidence to support EBM as an effective cost controller. One way in which EBM can help reduce the costs of cancer care is by optimizing the appropriate use of less expensive drugs. When pathways are developed, it will often be found that evidence supports the use of less expensive therapies, without compromising outcomes or increasing toxicity.
Evidence-based practice = lower cost, fewer health disparities. Atul Gawande, MD. I’m often at odds with Atul Gawande’s views on health care reform in the United States. I’m a staunch supporter of a single-payer, government-run, national health care plan; he supports a market-based system. 
1 (Strength of Recommendation = A, based on consistent, good-quality patient-oriented evidence) The evidence suggests that hospital length of stay and costs are reduced, but it is too heterogeneous to make any conclusive statements. They aim to link evidence to practice and optimize clinical outcomes while maximizing clinical efficiency. Objectives: To assess the effect of clinical pathways on professional practice, patient outcomes, length of stay, and hospital costs.
BACKGROUND: Although it is widely known that evidence-based practice (EBP) improves healthcare quality, reliability, and patient outcomes as well as reduces variations in care and costs, it is still not the standard of care delivered by practicing clinicians across the globe. The establishment of evidence-based practice competencies for practicing registered nurses and advanced practice nurses in real-world clinical settings: proficiencies to improve healthcare quality, reliability, patient outcomes, and costs. Melnyk BM(1), Gallagher-Ford L, Long LE, Fineout-Overholt E. Author information:
Researchers develop list of competencies for nurses that will improve care, safety, costs. COLUMBUS, Ohio – Nursing researchers have come up with an answer for health care systems and professionals struggling with how to most effectively adopt evidence-based practice in their clinical settings. To arrive at the list of competencies, the researchers collected expert input from national leaders in evidence-based practice (EBP) and surveyed 80 nurses who are EBP mentors in health care systems across the United States.