The nucleus of a cell contains chromosomes, which carry genetic information in a long molecule called DNA. Genes are regions of DNA that carry the code to control a particular cell activity or the production of a particular protein. A gene is a section of DNA which controls part of a cell's chemistry-particularly protein production. is a shorter region of DNA that carries the genetic code for a particular characteristic or cell activity. Nucleus, chromosome and gene. DNA molecules contain chemicals called bases.
Best Answer: DNA controls the structure and function of the entire body. its in every cell. It contains genes that control protein production. the proteins they get shipped to their appriopriate destination in the body. It is code telling our body what proteins to make and when. Each gene codes for a set of proteins, these genes can be turned on and off during life. For instance, genes for making eyes and arms are only needed during development in the womb...then they can be turned off.
DNA structure. DNA is made up of molecules called nucleotides. Each nucleotide contains a phosphate group, a sugar group and a nitrogen base. The four types of nitrogen bases are adenine (A), thymine (T), guanine (G) and cytosine (C). The order of these bases is what determines DNA's instructions, or genetic code. Similar to the way the order of letters in the alphabet can be used to form a word, the order of nitrogen bases in a DNA sequence forms genes, which in the language of the cell, tells cells how to make proteins. 
What DNA Does. ­DNA carr­ies all of the information for your physical characteristics, which are essentially determined by proteins. So, DNA contains the instructions for making a protein. In DNA, each protein is encoded by a gene (a specific sequence of DNA nucleotides that specify how a single protein is to be made). The particular sequence of amino acids in the chain is what makes one protein different from another. This sequence is encoded in the DNA where one gene encodes for one protein. The genetic code consists of 3-base words or codons that specify particular amino acids.
DNA can be thought of as a code, containing all the instructions that tell a cell what to do. It is made up of genes. Humans have around 25,000 genes in total. You inherit half your DNA from your mother and half from your father, so you have two copies of every gene. 
DNA stands for Deoxyribo Nucleic Acid Edit by DrBeaver: DNA controls protein production. It is expressed through transcription and translation to form these proteins. DNA contains the 'blueprints' used to create all the products of a cell. It provides instructions for cell activities. Depending on the cell environment, certain genes will … be switched on or off. This causes or restricts the creation of certain enzymes, etc. - thus controlling the functions of the cell.
1 Your genome is made of a chemical called deoxyribonucleic acid, or DNA for short. 2  DNA contains four basic building blocks or ‘ bases ’: adenine (A), cytosine (C), guanine (G) and thymine (T). 3  The order, or sequence, of these bases form the instructions in the genome. 4  DNA is a two-stranded molecule. DNA or deoxyribonucleic acid is a long molecule that contains our unique genetic code. Like a recipe book it holds the instructions for making all the proteins in our bodies. 1 