Dry eye syndrome is a medical condition that is not covered by vision insurance, however its diagnosis and treatment is covered by major medical insurance in the same way that red eyes and sore throats are covered. There are three main components to human tears. 
Carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC) or cellulose gum is a cellulose derivative with carboxymethyl groups (-CH 2 -COOH) bound to some of the hydroxyl groups of the glucopyranose monomers that make up the cellulose backbone. Knitted fabric made of cellulose (eg cotton or viscose rayon) may be converted into CMC and used in various medical applications. 1 Device for epitaxis (nose bleeding). A pvc balloon is covered by CMC knitted fabric reinforced by nylon.
BRAND NAME: Restasis. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Restasis ophthalmic emulsion is a prescription eye drop that helps patients increase their eyes' natural ability to produce tears. It is used to treat a type of chronic dry eye condition caused by inflammation. However, cyclosporine eye drop emulsion is thought to work differently. Restasis is believed to work locally in the eye as a partial modulator of the immune system. Tear production is thought to be decreased when lymphocytes, a type of white blood cell of the immune system, die and accumulate in the tear glands.
RESTASIS ® (cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion) 0.05%  RESTASIS ® , approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in 2002, is currently the only prescription eye drop to help increase the eyes’ natural ability to produce tears in cases where it may be reduced by inflammation due to chronic dry eye. 
Approved Use. RESTASIS® (Cyclosporine. Ophthalmic Emulsion) 0.05% helps increase your eyes’ natural ability to produce tears, which may be reduced by inflammation due to Chronic Dry Eye. RESTASIS® did not increase tear production in patients using anti-inflammatory eye drops or tear duct plugs. To help avoid eye injury and contamination, do not touch the vial tip to your eye or other surfaces. Important Safety Information. Do not use RESTASIS® Ophthalmic Emulsion if you are allergic to any of the ingredients. To help avoid eye injury and contamination, do not touch the vial tip to your eye or other surfaces. RESTASIS® should not be used while wearing contact lense
Shares & Saves. Save. Restasis is a prescription eye drop that is used in the treatment of dry eyes. Dry eyes are usually caused by problematic tear production or inflammation of the eye. This eye drop addresses these issues. Cyclosporine. Restasis is made up of a substance called cyclosporine. Cyclosporine is created by a fungus called Tolypocladium Inflatum. This is a potent medication that is used to prevent organ rejection in transplant situations.
Dry eye is a multifactorial disease of the tears and ocular surface that results in symptoms of discomfort and visual disturbance, related to tear film instability with potential damage to the ocular surface (Lemp, 2007). Sodium hyaluronate ophthalmic solution 0.18% is a patented eye drop formulation for which clinical study results demonstrate efficacy in both signs and symptoms of dry eye disease, with a good safety and tolerability profile.