Park attendance (and prices) surged in the late 2000s and early 2010s, with attendance finally beginning to dip in 2012, as a multi-billion dollar refurbishment and expansion of California Adventure began to draw visitors to Disneyland's sister park in record numbers for the first time.
What time of year to visit Disneyland and Walt Disney World Disneyland Daily Attendance & Queue Length throughout a year For more accurate daily predictions, visit here.
The Magic Kingdom park at Walt Disney World in Florida remains the top theme park not only in North America but in the world with attendance of 17.1 million. Close behind it is Disneyland Park at Disneyland Resort in California with attendance of 16
Disneyland Visitation Guide Time of Year Attendance and queue lengths through a year Time of Day/Week Attendance and queue length through a day/week Disneyland Weather Weather trends & forecasts More Attendance Figures Disney park attendance annual figures, accumulative totals and more.
But the story of Disneyland begins before July 1955. Two years earlier, in July 1953, Walt Disney asked Harrison Buzz Price to calculate the optimal location for a new type of theme park, one with a single entrance, hidden from nearby streets, with custom rides that put storytelling ahead of thrills.
Typhoon Lagoon at Walt Disney World is the world’s top water park with attendance of 2.1 million. Blizzard Beach is third in the world with 1.9 million. See the report for additional data on water parks. For historical attendance data at Disney parks prior to year 2010 and back to 1991 click on this link at Scottware.
The graph depicts the attendance at the Disneyland theme park in California from 2009 to 2014. In 2010, the attendance at the park was 15.98 million. Exclusive Premium statistic. You need a Premium membership to access this
Walt Disney World's Epcot moved up to fifth place worldwide due to a 6.9 percent attendance drop at former fifth-place park Disneyland Paris, which dropped to 10.4 million visitors last year. Epcot was up 1.5 percent, to 11.2 million visitors. Attendance grew 4.3% on average at the top 25 parks in the world