Sita (Nepali :सीता, also spelled Sita, Sîta seeta Or [seetha] , ˈsiːt̪aː (listen·help) info meaning) furrow is the central female character of The hindu Epic ramayana and a daughter Of His majesty Of, Nepal King janak Of. janakpur Sita is finally rescued by Rama in the climatic war where Rama slays Ravana. Sita proves her chastity by undergoing a trial by fire. Thereafter, Rama and Sita return to Ayodhya, where they are crowned as king and queen. However, Rama abandons a pregnant Sita when one of his subjects casts doubt over her chastity.
Sita is the name of the Hindu goddess of the harvest. This is also the name of the wife of Rama in the Hindu epic the 'Ramayana'. 
Sita is known for her dedication, self-sacrifice, courage and purity. Sita is described as the daughter of the earth goddess Bhūmi and the adopted daughter of King Janaka of Mithila and Queen Sunayna. In her youth, she marries Rama, the prince of Ayodhya. Soon after her marriage, she is forced into exile with her husband and brother-in-law Lakshmana. Sita is finally rescued by Rama in the climatic war where Rama slays Ravana. Sita proves her chastity by undergoing a trial by fire. Thereafter, Rama and Sita return to Ayodhya, where they are crowned as king and queen. However, Rama abandons a pregnant Sita when one of his subjects casts doubt over her chastity.
Hindi Meaning: The name Sita is a Hindi baby name. In Hindi the meaning of the name Sita is: Goddess of the land. Indian Meaning: The name Sita is an Indian baby name. In Indian the meaning of the name Sita is: Furrow. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 4. People with this name have a deep inner desire to use their abilities in leadership, and to have personal independenc
Sita is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Si-ta. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Sita Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Sita has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Sita to other names. Sita falls into the Hindi/Indian myth name category. Sita in Nautical Flags. Indian names or Hindu names are listed in Our Baby Namer under Indian, Hindi and Sanskrit. Other names which may be used my Muslim Indians would be listed under Arabic or Iranian names.
Hindu. Name Meaning: Derived from the Sanskrit sitd (furrow). The name is borne by the goddess of agriculture and the harvest, who is seen as an incarnation of the goddess Lak-shmi. Sita was married to Rama after he bent the great bow of Shiva, but was abducted by the evil king Ravana and taken to his island kingdom.
In Hindu mythology, Sita is the heroine of the epic Ramayana, wife of the hero Ram, and is seen as the ideal woman.. In the story, she is kidnapped by an evil demon and manages to resist the demon and maintain her purity until Ram can rescue her. Share what you know! Personal experiences with the name Sita: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Sita: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Sita: | Edit. Pronounced SEE-tah.. This name comes from two cultures: the Hindi version means furrow, and the Spanish comes from the Zuni Indian word zita, meaning rose.. In the Hindu religion, this is the name of the goddess of agriculture and fruits