Definition: Persephone was the daughter of Zeus and Demeter. While she was playing, Persephone was abducted by Hades who had come for her in a chariot. He quickly and secretly dragged her down to his kingdom, where she stayed unwillingly, refusing to eat. Because of this, Persephone was compelled to spend part of her life there with Hades. During this time, Demeter mourns, and so, Earth experiences winter. When Persephone returns, it becomes spring.
In Greek mythology, Persephone, also called Kore, is the daughter of Zeus and the harvest-goddess Demeter, and queen of the underworld. Homer describes her as the formidable, venerable majestic queen of the underworld, who carries into effect the curses of men upon the souls of the dead. 
1. Goddess of Spring and Underworld. 2. Persephone was the beautiful greek goddess who was the daughter of Zeus and Demeter (Goddess of the Harvest). She was picking flowers one day when Hades, god of the Underworld, saw her and fell instantly in love with her. He agreed to this and tricked her into eating a pomegranate. She ate six seeds of the pomegranate which bounded her to the Underworld for six months (fall and winter) and the other six months she spent with her mother (spring and summer).
Per·seph·o·ne. n. Greek Mythology. The daughter of Demeter and Zeus who was abducted by Hades but rescued by her mother and thereafter spent six months of the year on earth and six months in the underworld. 1. Persephone - (Greek mythology) daughter of Zeus and Demeter; made queen of the underworld by Pluto in ancient mythology; identified with Roman Proserpina. Cora, Despoina, Kore. Greek mythology-the mythology of the ancient Greeks. Translations
Definitions. ( 1 Greek mythology) a daughter of Zeus and Demeter, abducted by Hades and made his wife and queen of the underworld, but allowed part of each year to leave it. 1 Trends. ( 2
2. Persephone was the beautiful greek goddess who was the daughter of Zeus and Demeter (Goddess of the Harvest). He agreed to this and tricked her into eating a pomegranate. She ate six seeds of the pomegranate which bounded her to the Underworld for six months (fall and winter) and the other six months she spent with her mother (spring and summer).
Persephone (pəˈsɛfənɪ). ( 1 Greek mythology) a daughter of Zeus and Demeter, abducted by Hades and made his wife and queen of the underworld, but allowed part of each year to leave it. 1 Trends. ( 2
Persephone was abducted by Hades, the god-king of the underworld. The myth of her abduction represents her function as the personification of vegetation, which shoots forth in spring and withdraws into the earth after harvest; hence, she is also associated with spring as well as the fertility of vegetation. In the myth Pluto abducts Persephone to be his wife and the queen of his realm. Pluto (πλούτων, Ploutōn) was a name for the ruler of the underworld; the god was also known as Hades, a name for the underworld itself.
Definition of PERSEPHONE. : a daughter of Zeus and Demeter abducted by Pluto to reign with him over the underworld. ADVERTISEMENT. Latin, from Greek Persephonē.