Dose of Tagamet for Gastric Ulcers. The recommended Tagamet dose for gastric ulcers (stomach ulcers) is either Tagamet 800 mg at bedtime or Tagamet 300 mg four times daily (with meals and at bedtime). However, your healthcare provider may recommend a lower dose (Tagamet 400 mg at bedtime) or a higher dose (Tagamet 1600 mg at bedtime). Other optional dosages are Tagamet 300 mg four times daily (with meals and at bedtime) or Tagamet 400 mg twice daily.
Children ≥ 40 kg may receive adult doses. Below that weight, the oral dosage is ranitidine 2 mg/kg q 12 h and cimetidine 10 mg/kg q 12 h. For GERD, H 2 blockers are now mostly used for pain management. Gastritis heals with famotidine or ranitidine given bid for 8 to 12 wk. Duration of action is proportional to dose and ranges from 6 to 20 h. Doses should often be reduced in elderly patients. For duodenal ulcers, once daily oral administration of cimetidine 800 mg, ranitidine 300 mg, famotidine 40 mg, or nizatidine 300 mg given at bedtime or after dinner for 6 to 8 wk is effective.
The typical dose of Tagamet for treating gastric ulcers is either 800 mg at bedtime or 300 mg four times daily (with meals and at bedtime). However, your healthcare provider may recommend a lower dose (Tagamet 400 mg at bedtime) or a higher dose (Tagamet 1600 mg at bedtime). Other optional dosages are Tagamet 300 mg four times daily (with meals and at bedtime) or Tagamet 400 mg twice daily.
Cimetidine (Tagamet) Dosage. Cimetidine comes as a tablet or liquid to take by mouth. Your dose will depend on your medical condition; whether you use the prescription or OTC form; and your response to treatment. The medicine is typically taken once a day at bedtime. Missed Dose of Cimetidine. If you miss a dose of cimetidine, take it as soon as you remember. However, if it's almost time for your next dose, skip the missed dose and continue on your regular schedule.
Tagamet (cimetidine) is indicated in: (1) Short-term treatment of active duodenal ulcer. Most patients heal within 4 weeks and there is rarely reason to use Tagamet (cimetidine) at full dosage for longer than 6 to 8 weeks (see Dosage and Administration-Duodenal Ulcer). Concomitant antacids should be given as needed for relief of pain. (2) Maintenance therapy for duodenal ulcer patients at reduced dosage after healing of active ulcer. Patients have been maintained on continued treatment with Tagamet (cimetidine) 400 mg h.s. for periods of up to 5 years. (3) Short-term treatment of active benign gastric ulcer.
Cimetidine has been used for the treatment and/or prophylaxis of gastric, abomasal and duodenal ulcers, uremic gastritis, stress-related or drug-induced erosive gastritis, esophagitis, duodenal gastric reflux and esophageal reflux. 5-10 mg/kg PO q6h (do not give with antacids)2. 4 mg/kg PO qidFor prevention of drug-induced gastric erosion/ulceration: 1. 5 mg/kg PO, SC, tidFor chronic gastritis: 1. 5-10 mg/kg PO, IM or IV tid-qid For ulcer disease:1. 5-10 mg/kg PO, IM or IV tid-qid2. 4-5 mg/kg PO, IV, or SC tid-qid3.
Tagamet Dosage for Duodenal Ulcers. The recommended Tagamet dose for duodenal ulcers (upper intestinal ulcers) is Tagamet 800 mg at bedtime. However, your healthcare provider may recommend a lower dose (Tagamet 400 mg at bedtime) or a higher dose (Tagamet 1600 mg at bedtime). Other optional dosages are Tagamet 300 mg four times daily (with meals and at bedtime) or Tagamet 400 mg twice daily.
Cimetidine Tablets. In veterinary medicine, cimetidine has been used for the treatment and/or prophylaxis of gastric, abomasal and duodenal ulcers, uremic gastritis, stress-related or drug-induced erosive gastritis, esophagitis, duodenal gastric reflux and esophageal reflux. Masters Pharmaceutical. In veterinary medicine, cimetidine has been used for the treatment and/or prophylaxis of gastric, abomasal and duodenal ulcers, uremic gastritis, stress-related or drug-induced erosive gastritis, esophagitis, duodenal gastric reflux and esophageal reflux.
3 Reviews. 3 Reviews. Cimetidine is the generic form of the brand name drug Tagamet, which is used to treat and prevent symptoms of heartburn. The medication is commonly taken by people with gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Cimetidine is sometimes used to treat stress ulcers, hives, and itching. Missed Dose of Cimetidine. If you miss a dose of cimetidine, take it as soon as you remember. However, if it's almost time for your next dose, skip the missed dose and continue on your regular schedule.