Telluride is located at an elevation of 8,750 feet in an isolated spot in Southwest Colorado. From the west, Colorado Route 145 is the most common way into Telluride; however, there are two alternate passes to enter the town: Imogene Pass and Black Bear Pass. Telluride’s most famous historic mines are the Tomboy, Pandora, Smuggler-Union, Nellie, and Sheridan mines. Beginning in 1939, the hard-rock mining operations in the Red Mountain and Telluride mining districts began a lengthy consolidation under the Idarado Mining Company (Idarado), now a division of Newmont Mining.
1 Ken Curtis (born in Las Animas, Colorado attended Colorado College in Colorado Springs) – actor, musician; starred in TV series Gunsmoke and western film The Searchers. 2  Pat Day (born in Brush, Colorado) – Hall of Fame jockey, winner of 1992 Kentucky Derby. 1 Matt Stone (lived in Denver and Littleton, alumnus of Heritage High School and the University of Colorado Boulder) – actor, musician, producer, writer; winner of two Emmy Awards (2005 and 2007, nominated seven times); co-creator of South Park.
1 Olin Howland (born in Denver) – film and television actor. 2  Daniel Junge (lives in Denver) – Academy Award-winning documentary filmmaker. 3  Brandy Ledford (born in Denver) – actress, model, former Penthouse Pet of the Year; played Dawn Masterton on Baywatch and Doyle on Andromeda. 1 Matt Stone (lived in Denver and Littleton, alumnus of Heritage High School and the University of Colorado Boulder) – actor, musician, producer, writer; winner of two Emmy Awards (2005 and 2007, nominated seven times); co-creator of South Park.
1 Brian Dietzen (lived in Boulder; attended University of Colorado Boulder) – actor, co-star of NCIS as the young Dr. Jimmy Palmer. 2  Thomas Doerr (lives in Boulder, Colorado) – architect, author, and educator at the University of Colorado Boulder. 1 Matt Stone (lived in Denver and Littleton, alumnus of Heritage High School and the University of Colorado Boulder) – actor, musician, producer, writer; winner of two Emmy Awards (2005 and 2007, nominated seven times); co-creator of South Park.
Telluride Film Festival. Each Labor Day weekend, the tiny mountain village of Telluride, Colorado triples in size. Swells of passionate film enthusiasts flood the town for four days of total cinematic immersion, embarking on a viewing odyssey, blissfully spending entire days in flickering dark rooms. The Telluride Film Festival take great pains to remain not a competition, but a celebration of the best in film—past, present and future—from all around the world. This is one weekend immersed in an unabashed carnival of film: viewing, breathing, eating, and talking cinema. This is The SHOW.
The town of Telluride is the county seat and most populous town of San Miguel County in the southwestern portion of the U.S. state of Colorado. The town is a former silver mining camp on the San Miguel River in the western San Juan Mountains. The first gold mining claim was made in the mountains above Telluride in 1875 and early settlement of what is now Telluride followed. Telluride’s most famous historic mines are the Tomboy, Pandora, Smuggler-Union, Nellie, and Sheridan mines. Beginning in 1939, the hard-rock mining operations in the Red Mountain and Telluride mining districts began a lengthy consolidation under the Idarado Mining Company (Idarado), now a division of Newmont Mining.
Telluride Film Festival’s prestigious annual gathering for film industry insiders, cinema enthusiasts, filmmakers and critics takes place every Labor Day weekend in the picturesque town of Telluride, Colorado. The 42nd edition of TFF will run September 4 – 7, 2015. We present our official program selections for the 42nd edition of the Telluride Film Festival taking place Labor Day Weekend September 4-7, 2015.
Lift lines for the chairlifts up from there are almost unheard of since Telluride is a low-density ski resort. Because of its location, people on the slopes at Telluride tend to be locals or in-house resort guests, not day skiers passing through. The result is a clubby, adventurous kinship on the hill and in the apres ski bars and restaurants. TELLURIDE, Colo. -- They sat shoulder to shoulder in the dark, snuggled into the plush, old-fashioned Nugget Theater on Colorado Avenue in Telluride.
The Telluride Historic District, which includes a significant portion of the town, is listed on the National Register of Historic Places and is also one of Colorado's 20 National Historic Landmarks. Telluride’s most famous historic mines are the Tomboy, Pandora, Smuggler-Union, Nellie, and Sheridan mines. Beginning in 1939, the hard-rock mining operations in the Red Mountain and Telluride mining districts began a lengthy consolidation under the Idarado Mining Company (Idarado), now a division of Newmont Mining.