However, the veteran has to pay for closing costs, or receive enough seller or lender credits to cover them. VA loan closing costs average around 1% – 3% of the loan amount on bigger home purchase prices, and 3% – 5% of the loan amount for less expensive homes. Get a closing cost estimate and check today’s VA loan rates. Click here. The seller is allowed to pay all of the veteran’s closing costs, up to 4% of the home price
Typically, home buyers will pay between about 2 and 5 percent of the purchase price of their home in closing costs. So, if your home cost $150,000, you might pay between $3,000 and $7,500 in closing costs. On average, buyers pay roughly $3,700 in closing costs, according to a recent survey. Lenders are required by law to give you a good faith estimate (GFE) of what the closing costs on your home will be within three days of when you apply for a loan.
Tip: Get the lender to pay the closing costs. If you're short on cash for the closing costs and can't roll the closing costs into the mortgage, some lenders will pay part or all of the closing costs, but in exchange you'll have to pay a higher interest rate on the loan, perhaps 0.25% or 0.50% higher. In addition to the down payment, you'll also have to pay closing costs — miscellaneous fees charged by those involved with the home sale (such as your lender for processing the loan, the title company for handling the paperwork, a land surveyor, local government offices for recording the deed, etc.).
The average closing costs percentage is usually about 2-5% of the purchase price (e.g., ~$4500 on a $180,000 home), but 1-8% is not uncommon. And to be clear, nobody chooses a specific percentage number—the closing costs will just happen to add up to some percentage. In addition to the down payment, you'll also have to pay closing costs — miscellaneous fees charged by those involved with the home sale (such as your lender for processing the loan, the title company for handling the paperwork, a land surveyor, local government offices for recording the deed, etc.).
Examples of Home Purchase Closing Costs. The following examples of closing costs are based on purchasing $55,000 and $165,000 houses with a 9% down payment ($5,000 and $15,000). A likely range of fees is given. Not counting the down payment, closing costs can range from 4.5% to 17% of the amount of the mortgage loan. 
On average, closing costs make up two to five percent of the purchase price of a home. Two percent doesn't seem like a high number, until you remember that houses are pretty expensive. With the average home price at $152,000, that means you can expect to pay an extra $3,000 to $7,600. And that's just on average. This can be quite a surprise to new homeowners, so here's a round-up of closing costs to watch out for.
The amount will vary, somewhere between 2-8% of the price of the home but usually around 2-4%. You can ask the homeowner to chip in or if you really need help, you can ask if the closing costs can be rolled into the mortgage or get a second loan to pay off sooner. As an example if you purchase a home that is $150,000 then the closing costs will be around 3% of the purchase price. You can try to get a seller to pick the closing costs up for you. Also keep in mind that if you buy a home that is $80,000 the percentage will be higher since we are working with a much lower price.
If you don't have enough cash to pay the closing costs, you can often get the closing costs added to the amount of the loan. For example, if the loan amount is for $150,000, and the closing costs are $4500, you'd add the closing costs to the loan amount so you'd actually be borrowing $154,500 total. In addition to the down payment, you'll also have to pay closing costs — miscellaneous fees charged by those involved with the home sale (such as your lender for processing the loan, the title company for handling the paperwork, a land surveyor, local government offices for recording the deed, etc.).
Method 1 of 4: Negotiate with the Seller. Typical closing costs are around 2-5% of the purchase price of the home. So on a $100,000 home, the closing costs will be between $2,000 - $5,000. Add this amount to a typical down payment of 20%, or $20,000, and it is easy to see why a home buyer would want to limit closing costs as much as possible. 1  1 Edit step. Buying a house is an expensive endeavor. Saving for a down payment often takes a potential home buyer years and it typically takes 30 years to pay off a home loan. Added to the down payment and mortgage payments each month is another large cost that comes with buying a house: closing costs.