If you taxi, no that taxi fees in Naples are set rates including to Amalfi, Sorrento, Positano. Taxi rates are listed on the Naples airport website and list Sorrento as 100€, but I think that is for airport to Sorento, not Naples to Sorrento which should be a little less. Page 2 is English. As for the ferry/hydrofoil, you would have to get a taxi to the port from the train station or take the Alibus. Ferries do not run late so it would depend on your arrival time in Naples. Prices would be in the 15-20€ range.
A: Private transfer from Naples Airport to Sorrento is a door to door service. The vehicle is not shared with other passengers. This is the fastest and most comfortable way to travel from Naples Airport to Sorrento. Prices for private transfers are per vehicle, not per passenger. Shuttle is a shared transfer service with two or more stops to your destination. This is the most cost effective ground transportation solution. Airport taxi transfers from Naples Airport as well as a wide range of services that require a car and driver from and to Naples and Naples Airport are available from City Airport Taxis.
How to get from Naples Airport to Naples? You can travel from Naples airport to Naples city centre with the Alibus shuttle service, but the fastest and most convenient way is to pre book a Private Taxi from Naples Airport on-line. Naples airport shuttle-the shared transfer service is the cheapest way to travel from and to the airport. Shuttle from Naples airport is usually available in peak season. Please use the instant quote form to check availability.
Airport taxi transfer cost from Naples International Airport to Pompeii is EUR 47. The cost for private taxi transfer from Naples Airport to Naples Cruise Port is EUR 38 for up to 3 passengers. The price for a transfer from Naples Airport to Naples is EUR 36. Transfer cost from Naples Cruise Port to Sorrento is EUR 75. The taxi fare from Naples Airport to Positano is EUR 90
Please note that the transfer service Sorrento to Naples Airport is for you and your party only and the price is per vehicle, not per passenger. 1  Low Cost Transfers-We offer fixed fare transfers-cheaper than taxi tariff. The default payment is in cash to the driver. Private bus transfers from Sorrento to Naples Airport as well as bus hire for events, weddings and other functions can be arranged on request. The prices shown here are for a private transfer from Sorrento to Naples Airport. You will not be sharing the vehicle with other passengers and the cost is for the private hire of the vehicle and driver. We provide transfers with clean and comfortable, air conditioned, fully licensed and insured vehicles and professional drivers. Fixed taxi fare from Sorrento to Naples Airport
Choose a Naples airport transfer from us, and start your holiday with a smile. Pick a private Naples airport taxi and a driver will be waiting for you on arrival, ready to carry you away, right to the door of your hotel in comfort and safety, completely hassle-free. Alternatively, choose a low cost shuttle from Naples airport, and save money for spending on your trip! 
This may cost significantly more than our fixed taxi cost. The fastest, most comfortable way to get from Sorrento to Naples Airport is by booking a private transfer with Airport-Transfers-Direct.com. The default payment is in cash to the driver. Private bus transfers from Sorrento to Naples Airport as well as bus hire for events, weddings and other functions can be arranged on request. The prices shown here are for a private transfer from Sorrento to Naples Airport. You will not be sharing the vehicle with other passengers and the cost is for the private hire of the vehicle and driver. We provide transfers with clean and comfortable, air conditioned, fully licensed and insured vehicles and professional drivers. Fixed taxi fare from Sorrento to Naples Airport
Comment by Miss S (travelled from Naples airport to Sorrento in a Private Taxi). I was impressed with your service. all went like clockwork-even when I had to bring forward my return pick up time by 20 minutes on advice from my airline re security delays at Naples airport. would definitely use you again. Easy Booking | Reliable Service | Great Prices. We provide reliable, low-cost, door-to-door Naples airport transfers to hotels, holiday villas, holiday apartments & private addresses using a modern fleet of fully licensed & insured taxis, minivans, minibuses and coaches.