Medical Definition of INFERIOR VENA CAVA. : a vein that is the largest vein in the human body, is formed by the union of the two common iliac veins at the level of the fifth lumbar vertebra, and returns blood to the right atrium of the heart from bodily parts below the diaphragm. Tweet. : a vein that is the largest vein in the human body, is formed by the union of the two common iliac veins at the level of the fifth lumbar vertebra, and returns blood to the right atrium of the heart from bodily parts below the diaphragm.
Inferior vena cava: A large vein that receives blood from the lower extremities, pelvis and abdomen and delivers it to the right atrium of the heart. 
Noun. 1. inferior vena cava-receives blood from lower limbs and abdominal organs and empties into the posterior part of the right atrium of the heart; formed from the union of the two iliac veins. postcava. vena cava-either of two large veins that return oxygen-depleted blood to the right atrium of the heart
The inferior vena cava (or IVC) (Latin: vena, vein, cavus, hollow), is one of the venae cavae, two large veins, that carries deoxygenated blood from the body into the right atrium of the heart. The inferior vena cava carries blood from the lower half of the body whilst the superior vena cava carries blood from the upper half of the body. It is formed by the joining of the right and the left common iliac veins, usually at the level of the fifth lumbar vertebra
Vena cava: The superior vena cava is the large vein which returns blood to the heart from the head, neck and both upper limbs. The inferior vena cava returns blood to the heart from the lower part of the body. The return of blood via the vena cava can be compromised and cause disease. 
inferior vena cava. n. Abbr. IVC. A large vein formed by the union of the two common iliac veins that receives blood from the lower limbs and the pelvic and abdominal viscera and empties into the right atrium of the heart. Also called postcava. The inferior vena cava contains a semilunar valve that is rudimentary in the adult but very large and important in the fetus. The vessel receives blood from the two common iliacs, the lumbar veins, and the testicular veins.
Click to read more below. The inferior vena cava is the largest vein in the human body. It collects blood from veins serving the tissues inferior to the heart and returns this blood to the right atrium of the heart. The inferior vena cava forms at the superior end of the pelvic cavity when the common iliac veins unite to form a larger vein. From the pelvis, the inferior vena cava ascends through the posterior abdominal body wall just to the right of the vertebral column....
Inferior vena cava. The inferior vena cava is also referred to as the posterior vena cava. The inferior vena cava is a large vein that carries de-oxygenated blood from the lower body to the heart. De-oxygenated blood means most of the oxygen has been removed by tissues, and therefore the blood is darker. The right atrium is located on the lower right back side of the heart. The inferior vena cava runs posterior, or behind, the abdominal cavity. This vein also runs alongside the right vertebral column of the spine. The inferior vena cava is the result of two major leg veins coming together.