In humans and other hominids, the thorax is the chest region of the body between the neck and the abdomen, along with its internal organs and other contents. It is mostly protected and supported by the rib cage, spine, and shoulder girdle. The thorax includes the thoracic cavity and the thoracic wall. It contains organs including the heart, lungs and thymus gland, as well as muscles and various other internal structures. Many diseases may affect the chest, and one of the most common symptoms is chest pain.
The heart is a muscular organ in humans and other animals, which pumps blood through the blood vessels of the circulatory system. Blood provides the body with oxygen and nutrients, and also assists in the removal of metabolic wastes. The heart is located in the middle compartment of the mediastinum in the chest. Blood in the pulmonary circulation exchanges carbon dioxide for oxygen in the lungs through the process of respiration. The systemic circulation then transports oxygen to the body and returns carbon dioxide and relatively deoxygenated blood to the heart for transfer to the lungs.
mediastinum. pl. mediastina [L.]. 1. a median septum or partition. 2. the mass of tissues and organs separating the two lungs, between the sternum ventrally and the vertebral column dorsally, containing the heart and its large vessels, trachea, esophagus, thymus, lymph nodes, and other structures and tissues. 1. a median septum or partition. 2. the mass of tissues and organs separating the sternum in front and the vertebral column behind, containing the heart and its large vessels, trachea, esophagus, thymus, lymph nodes, and other structures and tissues. It is divided into anterior, middle, posterior, and superior region
The lungs are also closely associated with the cardiovascular system as they are the sites for gas exchange between the air and the blood. The body contains two lungs, of which one is positioned on the left side of the chest cavity and the other on the right side. 
Split and merge into it. Answer by Metla Sushmitha. Confidence votes 195. the area present between two lungs in chest cavity is called mediastenum.this is the place where heart is present.The mediastinum lies between the right and left pleurae pleuræ in and near the median sagittal plane of the. chest 
The organs of the chest are protected by the ribs. The area between the lungs in the middle of the chest is called the mediastinum. It contains the heart, windpipe (trachea), food pipe (esophagus), blood vessels, and many lymph nodes. Figure 1: The Respiratory System* Air moves in and out of the body by the action of muscles. The diaphragm is a large muscle that sits below the lungs. It separates the lungs and other organs in the chest from the organs of the abdomen.
The chest wall is made up of the ribs and the muscles between the ribs. The lungs are separated by the mediastinum mediastinumThe space in the chest between the lungs, breastbone and spine that contains the heart, great blood vessels, thymus, trachea (windpipe), esophagus and lymph nodes. , which contains the heart and other organs. Below the lungs is the diaphragm, a thin muscle that separates the chest cavity from the abdomen. Each lung is divided into lobes (sections): 1  The left lung has 2 lobes.
me•di•as•ti•num. 1. a median septum or partition between two parts of an organ or paired cavities of the body. 2. the area in the chest that lies between the lungs, is bounded by the sternum, the spinal column, and the diaphragm, and contains the heart, esophagus, trachea, and other thoracic structures. mediastīnus middle class, derivative of Latin medius mid 1 ]. me`di•as•ti′nal, adj. 1. mediastinum-the part of the thoracic cavity between the lungs that contains the heart and aorta and esophagus and trachea and thymus. bodily cavity, cavum, cavity - (anatomy) a natural hollow or sinus within the body.
Organs. The chest is the area of origin for many of the body’s systems as it houses organs such as the heart, esophagus, trachea, lungs, and thoracic diaphragm. The circulatory system does most of its work inside the chest. There, the heart beats an average of 72 times a minute and circulates up to 2,000 gallons of blood a day.