Go to Google Maps website, and simply type in the address of the location you want to show or search for a location. Once you have found the location, click on the link button in the right hand panel. This will show you the embed code. Provide a title to your map and choose the map size. Once you are satisfied with the map, click on the save button and then click on Insert into Post button to add the map into your post. Update or publish your post and see the preview. With MapPress you can add multiple maps to a post or page. Even though it works out of the box but it also adds a plugin settings menu in your WordPress admin sidebar. Clicking on it you can change plugin settings, such as map type, border, alignment, controls, etc
1 Create unlimited maps and display on posts/pages using shortcode or in sidebar using widget. 2  Add unlimited locations using an easy to use interface for Google Maps. 3  Display your map perfectly on all devices. 4  Create 100% responsive maps effortlessly. 5  Add any number of Google maps on pages/posts/sidebars. 1 Add unlimited locations using an easy to use interface for Google Maps. 2  Display your map perfectly on all devices. 3  Create 100% responsive maps effortlessly. 4
1 Make your own Google Earth KML-Quickly create KML files with your address data for 3D viewing data in Google Earth. 2  Locate several address coordinates for use in development of a online map mashup using Yahoo Maps or Google Maps. 3  Save your multiple mapped locations and associated data to a web page for later use. 1 Locate several address coordinates for use in development of a online map mashup using Yahoo Maps or Google Maps. 2  Save your multiple mapped locations and associated data to a web page for later use. 3  Import latitude/longitude coordinates into a SQL database for usage in a GIS application.
Print your map. Click the List all steps link beneath the list of destinations. This will change the Maps window to show all of your destinations and the directions to reach each one. Click the printer button and choose to either print the directions only or the directions along with a picture of the map. Reorder your destinations (optional). If you decide that you want to swap the order of your destinations, click and drag the circle next to the destination that you want to move. Drag the destination to its new location in the list, and the route will be automatically recalculated. 8. Adjust your route.
Add a second destination. Click the + button underneath your first destination to add another field. You can then enter in the address or click on the map to set your second destination. Your route from the first to second destination will be calculated. Reorder your destinations (optional). If you decide that you want to swap the order of your destinations, click and drag the circle next to the destination that you want to move. Drag the destination to its new location in the list, and the route will be automatically recalculated. 8. Adjust your route.
000-000-0000. Add a phone number. Email. Website. Click Edit and choose Select a Place. Select a Place on the map to edit. Click Edit link and Select Edit this Place. Add / Edit details and Click Save. Edit Place. Parts of your neighborhood may already be mapped on Google Maps. Improve these further using your knowledge of your locality.
Step 3. Click Untitled Map and enter a name and description for your map using the fields on the pop-up dialog. (Image: Image courtesy of Google). You must enter a name and description in order to be able to share your map. Click the Save button when you're finished. (Image: Image courtesy of Google). Enter an identifying name for the location using the provided pop-up window and then click the Save button. (Image: Image courtesy of Google). Repeat this step until you've added all of your desired locations to the map.
Step 1. Visit the Google Maps website, click the Sign In button in the top-right corner of the window and sign in to your Google account. You need to be signed in in order to use the My Maps feature to create a custom map with multiple locations. (Image: Image courtesy of Google). Enter an identifying name for the location using the provided pop-up window and then click the Save button. (Image: Image courtesy of Google). Repeat this step until you've added all of your desired locations to the map.
Another easier way to add Google maps to your WordPress site is by installing Google Maps Widget plugin. After activating the plugin, go to Appearance » Widgets and drag and drop Google Maps Widget to your sidebar. Enter the address you want to show on the map in Widget settings. Provide a title to your map and choose the map size. Once you are satisfied with the map, click on the save button and then click on Insert into Post button to add the map into your post. Update or publish your post and see the preview. With MapPress you can add multiple maps to a post or page. Even though it works out of the box but it also adds a plugin settings menu in your WordPress admin sidebar. Clicking on it you can change plugin settings, such as map type, border, alignment, controls, etc