The Good Neighbor policy was the foreign policy of the administration of United States President Franklin Roosevelt towards Latin America. Although the policy was implemented by the Roosevelt administration, 19th-century politician Henry Clay paved the way for it and coined the term Good Neighbor.
Roosevelt had pledged the United States to the good neighbor policy, transforming the Monroe Doctrine from a unilateral American manifesto into arrangements for mutual action against aggressors.
The shift in twentieth-century U.S. policy towards Latin America began with the Good Neighbor Policy. From the late nineteenth century to the 1920s, the United States had a rocky relationship with Latin America.
The reason that FDR s Good Neighbor Policy was first applied in U.S. relations with Latin America and the Caribbean stemmed from the root concept of good neighbors. In 1936 Roosevelt explained: Peace, like charity, begins at home.
In addition, Roosevelt had thus far followed a Good Neighbor policy with the countries of Latin America. Whereas Teddy Roosevelt had created an interventionist state with his corollary to the Monroe Doctrine, FDR formally accepted nonintervention in 1933.
The Cold War Museum-Franklin D. Roosevelt. Roosevelt had pledged the United States to the good neighbor policy, transforming the Monroe Doctrine from a unilateral American manifesto into arrangements for mutual action against aggressors. He also sought, through neutrality legislation ...
U.S. exports to Latin America increased, and U.S. investment in the region rose. Militarily, the Good Neighbor Policy eventually brought all of Latin America over to the side of the Allies during World War II. Mexico became a staunch U.S. ally, and it was the only Latin American nation to send troops into combat.
The Good Neighbor Policy and the Pan-American war propaganda were further abandoned when the United States ignored free trade overtures and viewed Latin America merely as a supplier of raw materials and tropical foodstuffs.