The lumbar vertebrae consist of five individual cylindrical bones that form the spine in the lower back. These vertebrae carry all of the upper body’s weight while providing flexibility and movement to the trunk region. They also protect the delicate spinal cord and nerves within their vertebral canal. The lumbar vertebrae are the some of the largest and heaviest vertebrae in the spine, second in size only to the sacrum. A cylinder of bone known as the vertebral body makes up the majority of the lumbar vertebrae’s mass and bears most of the body’s weight.
Among the vertebrae of the spinal column, the cervical vertebrae are the thinnest and most delicate bones. Yet, in spite of their size, the cervical vertebrae have the huge jobs of supporting the head, protecting the spinal cord, and providing mobility to the head and neck. The cervical vertebrae are stacked along the length of the neck to form a continuous column between the skull and the chest.... Click to read more below. The cervical vertebrae of the spine consist of seven bony rings that reside in the neck between the base of the skull and the thoracic vertebrae in the trunk
Your spinal cord is protected by the vertebral column (also known as the spinal column or backbone). The human spinal column is made up of 33 bones - 7 vertebrae in the cervical region, 12 in the thoracic region, 5 in the lumbar region, 5 in the sacral region and 4 in the coccygeal region.
Purpose of the Vertebrae. Although vertebrae range in size; cervical the smallest, lumbar the largest, vertebral bodies are the weight bearing structures of the spinal column. Upper body weight is distributed through the spine to the sacrum and pelvis. 
The spine (also called the vertebral column or spinal column) is composed of a series of bones called vertebrae stacked one upon another. There are four regions of the spine: 1  cervical (neck). 2  thoracic (chest/trunk). 3  lumbar (low back). 
The vertebral column usually consists of 33 vertebrae: 24 presacral vertebrae (7 cervical, 12 thoracic, and 5 lumbar) followed by the sacrum (5 fused sacral vertebrae) and the coccyx (4 frequently fused coccygeal vertebrae). The 24 presacral vertebrae allow movement and hence render the vertebral column flexible. Figure legends. Figure 39-1 The primary (1, thoracic; 2, sacral) and secondary (3, cervical; 4, lumbar) curvatures of the vertebral column. Figure 39-2 The parts of a vertebra (T.V.6) seen from above and from the right side. Adjacent intervertebral notches form intervertebral foramina for the transmission of nerves.
These nerves are divided into 8 cervical, 12 thoracic, 5 lumbar, 5 sacral, and 1 coccygeal nerve (Figure 3.2). Dorsal and ventral roots enter and leave the vertebral column respectively through intervertebral foramen at the vertebral segments corresponding to the spinal segment. The spinal cord extends from the foramen magnum where it is continuous with the medulla to the level of the first or second lumbar vertebrae. It is a vital link between the brain and the body, and from the body to the brain. The spinal cord is 40 to 50 cm long and 1 cm to 1.5 cm in diameter.
The Vertebral Column (also called the Spinal Column). It is formed by 26 irregular bones called vertebrae. The vertebral column has five major regions. 7 cervical vertebrae, 12 thoracic vertebrae, 5 lumbar vertebrae, the sacrum and the coccyx. Features of the Lumbar Vertebrae: L1-L5. Lumbar Vertebrae: L1 through L5 support the most weight. They have a sturdier construction (larger body and shorter porjections) The vertebral foramen is triangular shaped.
The vertebral column (also known as the backbone or the spine), is a column of approximately 33 small bones, called vertebrae. The column runs from the cranium to the apex of the coccyx, on the posterior aspect of the body. It contains and protects the spinal cord. 