Definition of Enjambment. Enjambment is a term used in poetry to refer to lines that end without punctuation and without completing a sentence or clause. When a poet uses enjambment, he or she continues a sentence beyond the end of the line into a subsequent line or lines. Enjambment is also sometimes thought of as the running on of a thought beyond a line or stanza without a syntactical break.
Term: Enjambment. Enjambment is the continuation of a sentence or clause over a line-break. If a poet allows all the sentences of a poem to end in the same place as regular line-breaks, a kind of deadening can happen in the ear, and in the brain too, as all the thoughts can end up being the same length.
In poetry, enjambment refers to a break of a couplet, sentence, clause, or phrase by means of a second line or verse. Instead of the standard straight line sentence, an enjambment may be used to break a particular phrase into two verses. The term “enjambment” has French roots (“enjambement”) and it means “to straddle” or “straddling”. And since an enjambment gives a break from the first line to the second line, this poetry term is also known as a “run-on line”. A common use for enjambment in writing poetry is to somewhat force the reader into completing the entire thought of the line by reading the second line
In poetry, enjambment or enjambement (/ɛnˈdʒaembmənt/ ; ɛnˈdʒæmbmənt from The french Enjambement:Template Rowan x visna weird or widow ow w For owens. Dodo rodney) widbmɑ̃ is incomplete syntax at the end of a; line the meaning runs over from one poetic line to the, next without terminal. punctuation In poetry, enjambment or enjambement (/ɛnˈdʒaembmənt/ ; ɛnˈdʒæmbmənt from The french Enjambement:Template Rowan x visna weird or widow ow w For owens. dodo
Share to: The answer is that enjambment is when a thought runs on from one line to another, and caesura is a pause or sudden break in a line of poetry. An example of enjambment is: He … r eyes shined like the stars in the sky.An example of caesura is: Her eyes shined. Like the stars in the sky. 
Features of an Enjambment. 1  Enjambment lines usually do not have a punctuation mark at the end. 2  It is a running on of a thought from one line to another without final punctuation. 3  It is used in poetry to trick a reader. 4  Poets lead their readers to think of an idea then, on the next line, give an idea that conflicts it. 
The use of the line break or enjambment on the second line creates a surprise and provides anticipation to the reader which is a basic feature of poetry. And because a break in the thought of one sentence is provided, more interest is built at the point of view of the reader. The term “enjambment” has French roots (“enjambement”) and it means “to straddle” or “straddling”. And since an enjambment gives a break from the first line to the second line, this poetry term is also known as a “run-on line”. A common use for enjambment in writing poetry is to somewhat force the reader into completing the entire thought of the line by reading the second line
jher000. Enjambment or enjambement is the breaking of a syntactic unit (a phrase, clause, or sentence) by the end of a line or between two verses. It is to be contrasted with end-stopping, where each linguistic unit corresponds with a single line, and caesura, in which the linguistic unit ends mid-line. What is meaning of enjambment. Enjambment or enjambement is the breaking of a syntactic unit (a phrase, clause, or sentence) by the end of a line or between two verses.