Bacteria enter through a dental cavity, chip or crack in the tooth and spread to the root. The bacterial infection causes swelling and the formation of pus (bacteria, dead tissue and white blood cells). If unchecked, the bacterial infection spreads from the tooth root to different parts of the body. 
1 There is swelling and/or a pimple on the gum that is filled with pus. 2  This pimple is called a draining fistula  and oftentimes can rupture to release pus. 3  This is an obvious sign of infection. 4  Other signs of a tooth abscess are a bad taste or bad odor in the mouth. 
Get help from a doctor now ›. It is possible: A tooth abscess won't go away without treatment and the infection may spread to your jaw, cheeks, sinus, brain and to other areas of your head and neck. A dental abscess is a collection of pus that forms in your teeth or gums as a result of a bacterial infection. 5. Get help from a doctor now ›. Yes: Yes an abscess can spread. Upper tooth infections can spread to the brain; lower tooth infections can spread to the neck and strangle you or worse, go to your heart.
In this article. Font Size. A. A. A. An abscessed tooth is a painful infection at the root of a tooth or between the gum and a tooth. It's most commonly caused by severe tooth decay. Other causes of tooth abscess are trauma to the tooth, such as when it is broken or chipped, and gingivitis or gum disease. 
An acute abscess of an upper tooth can cause cheek swelling and, untreated, lead to a brain abscess or a sinus infection. If bacteria spread from an abscess in a lower tooth, the swelling can constrict the airway. Some patients underestimate how serious the condition can be. 
If you are currently taking antibiotics..the likelihood of any infection from your tooth going to your brain is pretty close to nil. Customer : I had pain in the jaw a few months ago. Went to the doctor because I thought it was my sinuses. hoteego1 : The swelling above the bad tooth is where the infection is trying to drain through. When the swelling in the gum becomes big enough..98% of the time it will burst through a tiny fistula or opening in your mouth. You may even get a bad taste from the pu
Customer : The head psi is usually on one side. The side of the tooth and can move from the temple to the back of the head on that side. hoteego1 : You are most likely having problems with your bite. hoteego1 : The swelling above the bad tooth is where the infection is trying to drain through. When the swelling in the gum becomes big enough..98% of the time it will burst through a tiny fistula or opening in your mouth. You may even get a bad taste from the pu
Best Answer: If the infection spread to your brain you would not be able to type this question. You would be either very sick or dead. An infection will produce pain if the toxins don't have a way to come out. Some how your abscess is draining or you would feel it and would have removed the tooth or had a root canal by now. You are allowing infection to stay in your body and that is not good. 