Definition. A gluten-free diet is a diet that excludes the protein gluten. Gluten is found in grains such as wheat, barley, rye, and a cross between wheat and rye called triticale. A gluten-free diet is primarily used to treat celiac disease. Gluten causes inflammation in the small intestines of people with celiac disease
A Discovery Health answered. Anyone with celiac disease needs to avoid eating gluten. Gluten is in grains like wheat, rye and barley, which means no breads, cereals, pastas or baked goods unless they're made from other grains or are labeled gluten-free.. A Honor Society of Nursing (STTI) answered. Someone with celiac disease must strictly adhere to a diet that is free of gluten. Gluten is found in barley, wheat, and rye, but this does not mean you must eliminate all grains from your diet.
Foods to avoid. Do not eat any foods that contain gluten. These include foods made with wheat, barley, rye, or triticale (a wheat-rye cross). Common foods that contain gluten include: 1  Bagels. 2  Bread. 3  Breakfast cereals made with wheat, barley, or rye, or that have the term malt or malted in their names. 4  Malt is made from barley. 5  Crackers. 6  Pasta. 7  Pizza. Common foods that contain gluten include: 1  Bagels. 2  Bread. 3  Breakfast cereals made with wheat, barley, or rye, or that have the term malt or malted in their names. 4  Crackers. 5  Pasta. 6  Pizza.
Get help from a doctor now ›. Anything but gluten: In celiac disease, antibodies to gluten destroy the lining of the small intestine. However, unless you have developed malabsoroption, you can eat any food that does not contain gluten. Safe grains are rice and corn. Most supermarkets now have gluten-=free sections. 
Celiac Disease: Eating a Gluten-Free Diet. Celiac disease is a problem some people have with foods that contain gluten. Gluten is a type of protein found in the grains wheat, barley, rye, and triticale (a wheat-rye cross). When a person with celiac disease eats gluten, it triggers an immune response that is not normal. Common foods that contain gluten include: 1  Bagels. 2  Bread. 3  Breakfast cereals made with wheat, barley, or rye, or that have the term malt or malted in their names. 4  Crackers. 5  Pasta. 6  Pizza.
People with celiac disease must eat a strictly gluten-free diet and must remain on the diet for the remainder of their lives. In some severe cases, a gluten-free diet alone can't stop the symptoms and complications of celiac disease, and additional treatment is needed. People with celiac disease who eat a gluten-free diet experience fewer symptoms and complications of the disease.
1 Oats may cause symptoms in some people, perhaps as a result of contamination with wheat, barley, or rye during processing. 2  But many people who have celiac disease can eat moderate amounts of oats without having symptoms. 3  Health professionals vary in their long-term recommendations regarding eating foods with oats. 1 Avoiding all foods that contain wheat, rye, triticale, and barley gluten. 2  Bread, bagels, pasta, pizza, malted breakfast cereals, and crackers are all examples of foods that contain gluten. 3  Although some foods are labeled wheat-free, this doesn't mean that they are gluten-free. 4  Avoiding oats, at least initially
Once the diagnosis of celiac disease has been established, a gluten-free diet is indicated. This diet does not contain any wheat, rye, barley, triticale, spelt, kamut, or oats. A Honor Society of Nursing (STTI) answered. Someone with celiac disease must strictly adhere to a diet that is free of gluten. Gluten is found in barley, wheat, and rye, but this does not mean you must eliminate all grains from your diet.