Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: handstand (Noun). A movement or position in which a person is upside down, supported by their arms with their hands on the ground. Handstands are performed in many athletic activities, including acro dance, acrobatics, cheerleading, yoga, and gymnastics. Some variation of handstand is performed on every gymnastic apparatus, and many tumbling skills pass through a handstand position during their execution.
This is a list of brands of vodka. Vodka is a distilled beverage composed primarily of water and ethanol, sometimes with traces of impurities and flavorings. Vodka is made by the distillation of fermented substances such as grains, potatoes, or sometimes fruits or sugar.
In a basic handstand the body is held straight with arms and legs fully extended, with hands spaced approximately shoulder-width apart. There are many variations of handstands, but in all cases a handstand performer must possess adequate balance and upper body strength. Handstands are also commonly used in breakdance, often used for complex 'freezes'. In the nature of breakdance there is no correct style of handstand, with an 'anything goes' mentality. Legs will be bent, shoulders closed, head facing any direction-the goal is to create as interesting and complex shapes as possible.
The Iran-Contra Affair involved a secret foreign policy operation directed by White House officials in the National Security Council (NSC) under President ronald reagan. Although admitting that his administration had negotiated secretly with Iran in order to free the hostages in Lebanon, he publicly denied knowing about the arms-supplying enterprise directed by his own NSC staff. Simultaneously, the Senate and the House of Representatives each created a select Iran-Contra committee.
Handstand. A handstand is the act of supporting the body in a stable, inverted vertical position by balancing on the hands. In a basic handstand the body is held straight with arms and legs fully extended, with hands spaced approximately shoulder-width apart. Handstands are performed in many athletic activities, including acro dance, acrobatics, cheerleading, yoga, and gymnastics. Some variation of handstand is performed on every gymnastic apparatus, and many tumbling skills pass through a handstand position during their execution.
GCIDE (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: handstand (n.). The gymnastic act of supporting oneself by one's hands alone in an upside down position; as, to do handstands for exercise. Handstands are performed in many athletic activities, including acro dance, acrobatics, cheerleading, yoga, and gymnastics. Some variation of handstand is performed on every gymnastic apparatus, and many tumbling skills pass through a handstand position during their execution.
Common handstand variations include: 1  Straight legs held in a side or front split. 2  Stag split, in which legs are front split with bent knees. 3  Back extremely arched, with bent knees and toes touching the back of the head. 4  Hollowback, with hyperextension of the back so that legs go further forward than the head. 5  One-handed, in which only one hand ... Handstands are also commonly used in breakdance, often used for complex 'freezes'. In the nature of breakdance there is no correct style of handstand, with an 'anything goes' mentality. Legs will be bent, shoulders closed, head facing any direction-the goal is to create as interesting and complex shapes as possible.
In an arm's length transaction, neither party has an incentive to act against his/her own interest. That is, the seller seeks to make the price as high as he/she can, and likewise the buyer seeks to make it as low as he/she can. The negotiations for an arm's length transaction result in the arm's length price, which is almost always close to the market value of the asset being sold.
A. wow...getting MRSA is not a walk in the park...the treatment is usually with Vancomycin which is a very strong antibiotic that can cause several adverse affects. i know that it cause damage to some blood cells (white, platelets etc.) and can be toxic to the kidney. 