Streptomyces scabies or Streptomyces scabiei is a streptomycete bacterium species found in soils around the world. Unlike most of the 500 or so Streptomyces species it is a plant pathogen causing corky lesions to form on tuber and root crops as well as decreasing the growth of seedlings. In 1914 H. T. Gussow renamed the species Actinomyces scabies, noting that Oospora was an incorrect classification since the disease was not caused by a fungus. The Streptomyces genus was first proposed by Waksman and Henrici in 1943, meaning 'pliant or bent fungus'.
Competition, infection, predation, or all three by other bacteria, archaea, viruses, fungi, and larger organisms such as protozoa further select the predominant species, particularly in diverse, nutrient-rich zones such as the rhizosphere (soil surrounding a plant root) (Figure 1). 
Streptomyces hygroscopicus-Gram-positive, aerobic, filamentous, biofilm-forming, rod prokaryote (bacterium). Streptomyces spp. belong to the Actinomycetes group and are bacteria that share many characteristics with the fungi. They grow usually as filaments (chains of cells) and often branch to form a network of filaments (mycelium) in the soil.
Streptomyces. Streptomyces is a genus of Gram-positive bacteria that grows in various environments, with a filamentous form similar to fungi. The morphological differentiation of Streptomyces involves the formation of a layer of hyphae that can differentiate into a chain of spores. 7 In some Streptomyces, secondary metabolism and differentiation can be related. Phylogenetically, Streptomyces are a part of Actinobacteria, a group of Gram-positives whose genetic material (DNA) is GC-rich (70%) when compared with other bacteria such as Escherichia coli (50%).
Abstract. Streptomyces is a genus of Gram-positive bacteria that grows in various environments, and its shape resembles filamentous fungi. The morphological differentiation of Streptomyces involves the formation of a layer of hyphae that can differentiate into a chain of spores. 7 In some Streptomyces, secondary metabolism and differentiation can be related. Phylogenetically, Streptomyces are a part of Actinobacteria, a group of Gram-positives whose genetic material (DNA) is GC-rich (70%) when compared with other bacteria such as Escherichia coli (50%).
Streptomyces is the largest genus of Actinobacteria and the type genus of the family Streptomycetaceae. Over 500 species of Streptomyces bacteria have been described. Streptomyces is the largest antibiotic-producing genus, producing antibacterial, antifungal, and antiparasitic drugs, and also a wide range of other bioactive compounds, such as immunosuppressants.
These are the organisms with characteristics common to both bacteria and fungi but yet possessing distinctive features to delimit them into a distinct category. In the strict taxonomic sense, actinomycetes are clubbed with bacteria the same class of Schizomycetes and confined to the order Actinomycetales. They are unicellular like bacteria, but produce a mycelium which is non-septate (coenocytic) and more slender, tike true bacteria they do not have distinct cell-wall and their cell wall is without chitin and cellulose (commonly found in the cell wall of fungi).
Streptomyces scabies is a streptomycete bacteria which means it forms a mycelium made of hyphae, a growth form more usually associated with fungi. The hyphae of Streptomyces, are much smaller than those of fungi (0.5–2.0 μm) and form a heavily branched mycelium. In 1914 H. T. Gussow renamed the species Actinomyces scabies, noting that Oospora was an incorrect classification since the disease was not caused by a fungus. The Streptomyces genus was first proposed by Waksman and Henrici in 1943, meaning 'pliant or bent fungus'.