Shrub rose. Rosa. Shrub roses take the best of the hardiest rose species, and combine those traits with modern repeat blooming and diverse flower forms, colors and fragrances. Some shrub roses may grow tall, with vigorous, far-reaching canes; others stay compact
Comments. Submit. Rose is one of the most popular flowering garden plants worldwide. The texture and fullness of the flower is unique. Rose is the only flower that has such a wide range of sizes, colors, shapes and bloom forms. Cultivating rose plants is not an easy task; it requires a lot time, effort and attention.
Modern Roses are a broad mix which include the following types: Climbing, Floribunda, Grandiflora, Hybrid Musk, Hybrid Rugosa, Hybrid Tea, Landscape (including Groundcover) or Shrub, Miniature, Mini-flora and Polyantha. The American Rose Society currently recognizes 37 classes of roses. ‘Erinnerung an Brod’ a Hybrid Setigera Rose. SHRUB: Shrub roses is sort of another catch-all phrase that is supposed to define roses that are rugged and fuss-free such as the Knock Outs, Flower Carpets, Meidiland, Oso Easy Care, Hybrid Rugosas, Simplicity, Generosa générosa and so. forth
Many shrub roses result from crossing old-rose types with modern roses and therefore combine the best traits of each: repeat flowering rose bushes and a great range of colors from the Modern Roses, and the fragrance, wide range of flower styles, growth habits, and also the delicate color from the Old Garden Roses. Shrub roses encompass a wide range of rose types which makes them a very diverse group.
Shrub rose may be a poor choice of words, and as a result the term is largely artificial because all roses are in fact shrubs –just as is a lilac or a forsythia. Shrub, as applied to roses, is more a case of definition by usage rather than by description. 
Landscape Shrub Rose. Landscape Shrub Roses provide a wide range of growth habits that will fit into formal or informal gardens. With their disease resistance, continuous blooms and wonderful range of colors, these easy-to-grow roses will provide a beautiful and carefree garden. Plants. 
Roses are used as cut flowers, screens, borders, containers, hedges, ground cover, wall cover, and of course, as specimen plants in the landscape. There are literally thousands of rose types. Bloom color, bloom shape, foliage, size, fragrance and plant shape are all things to look at when shopping for roses. This guide will help you sort through all the varieties of roses.
A rose (/ˈroʊz/) is a woody perennial of the genus Rosa, within the family Rosaceae. There are over 100 species and thousands of cultivars. They form a group of plants that can be erect shrubs, climbing or trailing with stems that are often armed with sharp prickles. Species, cultivars and hybrids are all widely grown for their beauty and often are fragrant. Rose plants range in size from compact, miniature roses, to climbers that can reach seven meters in height. Different species hybridize easily, and this has been used in the development of the wide range of garden roses.