A primary example of this involves the energy currency in ecosystems, which is carbon. The amount and form of carbon present in different ecosystem pools — such as plants, animals, air, soil, and water — is controlled by organisms, and ultimately affects their ecological success. 
1 Energy is continually input into an ecosystem in the form of light energy, and some energy is lost with each transfer to a higher trophic level. 2  Nutrients, on the other hand, are recycled within an ecosystem, and their supply normally limits biological activity. 3  So, energy flows, elements cycle. The study of ecosystems mainly consists of the study of certain processes that link the living, or biotic, components to the non-living, or abiotic, components. Energy transformations and biogeochemical cycling are the main processes that comprise the field of ecosystem ecology.
Energy flow is the capture of solar energy through photosynthesis, which is the process used by green plants to convert radiant energy from the sun into organic compounds such as glucose. Solar energy flow is not a cycle, but a flow from the sun to the biosphere. It is one of the four basic ecosystem processes or windows through which we can begin to perceive the ecosystem as a whole. The others are the water cycle, mineral cycles, and community dynamics or ecological succession.
Ecosystems maintain themselves by cycling energy and nutrients obtained from external sources. At the first trophic level, primary producers (plants, algae, and some bacteria) use solar energy to produce organic plant material through photosynthesis. Decomposers process large amounts of organic material and return nutrients to the ecosystem in inorganic form, which are then taken up again by primary producers. Energy is not recycled during decomposition, but rather is released, mostly as heat (this is what makes compost piles and fresh garden mulch warm).
The largest source of energy for an ecosystem is the sun. Energy that is not used in an ecosystem is eventually lost as heat. Energy and nutrients are passed around through the food chain, when one organism eats another organism. Any energy remaining in a dead organism is consumed by decomposers. Producers convert energy from the environment into chemical energy in the form of carbon to carbon bonds. A classic example is the one previously mentioned where the plants convert CO 2 to O 2 and glucose. The second type of organism is the consumer.
The sun emits energy to Earth in the form of heat and light, and the plants in an ecosytem absorb the sunlight to make glucose, a form of chemical energy. Eventually the plant … is eaten, and whatever ate it also obtained the energy of sunlight from the plant. In an ecosystem the point of energy for the new energy is usually  at the base. Energy flows from the primary to the secondary and  finally to the tertiary sources.
Most energy in ecosystems comes from the sun, entering as light, then being converted to chemical energy and ultimately leaving the ecosystem as heat energy. However, energy can exit the ecosystem as heat during any point in the process, which means that energy availability decreases along a continuum. Once energy enters an ecosystem, its transfer basically boils down to which species feed upon which other species. Plants in an ecosystem are considered primary producers because they supply nearly all of the energy, or food, that other species need to survive. Plants -- including flowers, trees, seaweed, algae and much more -- sustain themselves not from other species in the ecosystem, but from mere sunlight.
Nearly all of the energy that drives ecosystems ultimately comes from the sun. Solar energy, which is an abiotic factor, by the way, enters the ecosystem through the process of photosynthesis. You can learn more than you want to know about this process in the unit on photosynthesis. Or, you could just chat with your local botanist
The sun emits energy to Earth in the form of heat and light, and the plants in an ecosytem absorb the sunlight to make glucose, a form of chemical energy. Eventually the plant … is eaten, and whatever ate it also obtained the energy of sunlight from the plant. 
Energy Flow. Refer to the yellow arrows in the diagram to help you understand the way that energy moves through an ecosystem. Energy enters an ecosystem in the form of heat from the sun. This energy is absorbed by organisms such as plants, and is then converted to other forms of energy and stored. Once stored, energy is used for necessary life functions, such as growth, movement and reproduction. In the first step plants convert the sun’s energy to chemical energy through a process called photosynthesis. The chemical energy is stored both as food and as structural elements in the plant.