When trigonelline is heated in closed tubes with barium hydroxide at 120 C, it gives rise to methylamine, and if treated similarly with hydrochloric acid at 260 C creates methyl chloride and nicotinic acid (a form of vitamin B3). Trigonelline is a methyl betaine of nicotinic acid. Trigonelline is an alkaloid with chemical formula C 7 H 7 N O 2. It is a zwitterion formed by the methylation of the nitrogen atom of niacin (vitamin B 3). Trigonelline is a product of niacin metabolism that is excreted in urine. Trigonelline occurs in many plants. It has been isolated from fenugreek seeds (Trigonella foenum-graecum, hence the name), garden peas, hemp seed, oats, potatoes, Stachys species, dahlia, Strophanthus species and Dichapetalum cymosum
1. Contents of trigonelline and caffeine in green coffee: O, Arabica; [], Robusta; x, Liberica; i, Excelsa; Q, Arabusta; O, Stenophylla; d.b., dry matter basis 199 A d c c o L 10 ~v Columbia Arabica India Robusta ~v- 0 [] i ~ I % 5 10 15 organic roasting loss, % Fig. So far, only [12] gives a com-parison between the decomposition of trigonelline and caf-feine in several samples of the same roasting series. The val-ues in Fig. 2 are expressed on a dry green bean basis in order to show the decomposition of both substances and the subli-mation of caffeine more clearly.
Trigonelline and amino acids are natural components in green coffee beans. Model systems mimicking coffee roasting were used to produce heated samples of trigonelline, amino acids and glucose. Trigonelline and amino acids were heated separately or in combinations for 20 min at 250 degrees C. 
Nicotinic acid or also known was vitamin B3 (niacin) is produced by the demethylation of trigonelline at temperatures above 160 ° C-230 ° C where approximately 85% is decomposed. But when compared to green coffee-there is an overall net increase of about 10x from green to roasted. According to lab experiments formation of nicotinic acid depends more on the roasting temperature than on the actual duration of the roast. Interestingly, coffee has been found to contain a significant amount of niacin-providing 10-40mg of niacin/100g of coffee and far exceeding the daily recommended dosage.
While caffeine, trigonelline and nicotinic acid may be analyzed in green and roasted coffee independently of the coffee matrix used to prepare calibration curves, sucrose analysis should be performed using calibration curves prepared in the same type of coffee extract (green or roasted) which is being analyzed. Caffeine, trigonelline, nicotinic acid and sucrose were simultaneously analyzed for the first time by LC–MS in a 6 min run. The developed method showed appropriate recoveries and repeatibilities.
There are several reported chromatographic methods for the individual quantification of caffeine, trigonelline, nicotinic acid and sucrose in coffee (Trugo, 2003, Trugo et al., 1991 and Trugo et al., 1983). Caffeine, trigonelline, nicotinic acid and sucrose were simultaneously analyzed for the first time by LC–MS in a 6 min run. The developed method showed appropriate recoveries and repeatibilities.
To express the amount of trigonelline, caffeine, nicotinic acid and sucrose on a dry weight basis (dwb), the water content of all ground coffee samples was determined according to the AOAC method (AOAC, 2000). Caffeine, trigonelline, nicotinic acid and sucrose were simultaneously analyzed for the first time by LC–MS in a 6 min run. The developed method showed appropriate recoveries and repeatibilities.
TRIGONELLINE. Another less known alkaloid that shadows in the light of caffeine is that of trigonelline. In Arabica coffee, trigonelline concentrations make up roughly 1% by weight with a slightly less concentration (0.7%) found its Robusta counterpart. 
Trigonelline is a novel phytoestrogen in coffee beans. Allred KF, Yackley KM, Vanamala J, Allred CD. Drinking coffee has been associated with the development of several endocrine-related cancers. The interpretation of these data has often been limited to the role that caffeine plays. Trigonelline (Trig), a niacin-related compound, is a natural constituent of coffee accounting for approximately 1% dry matter in roasted beans. Studies exploring the effects of this bioactive compound on mammalian cells are limited. 