If you walk a mile in eight minutes that means you are RUNNING 7.5 mph.   8 min. 60 min.   Sixty divided by eight equals seven with a remainder of four. Four is half of … eight which means you are running seven and five tenths miles per hour. If you walk 5.5 miles in 60 minutes how fast are you walking? Since there are 60 minute to one hour, then your distance in 60 minutes is the same the distance per hour.
GOLDENRODFARM. This is an odd test, one mile in 14 minutes is not a walking test, it is running for me, anything less then 17 minutes is running/jogging, my legs just don't go fast enough at a walk for that without resorting to running. To think someone my age can walk that fast without running is very strange. Goal: Walk one mile as quickly as possible. Execution: We suggest that you DO NOT attempt this test until you are routinely walking for 15 to 20 minutes several times per week. Do not perform this test on a treadmill, as it will skew your results.
The simplest, safest, and least expensive exercise is walking. But how fast should you walk? Research has shown that walking at speeds of 3.5 to 4.5 miles an hour-that's brisk walking, not strolling-produces cardiovascular benefits. A woman of average size can walk comfortably at brisk speeds of 3.5 to 4 miles an hour, while the average-sized man can walk at 4.5 to 5 miles per hour. 1 Over the course of a month, gradually increase your distance to three miles at a pace of four miles per hour five times a week. 2  If you are unable to walk that fast, walk a little farther. 3  You can increase the aerobic benefits of brisk walking in two ways.
If a 125-pound person walks for 30 minutes at a leisurely pace, for example, she'll burn about 120 calories in 30 minutes. A 155-pound person will burn 149 calories during that same walk, and a 185-pound person will burn roughly 178 calories, according to Harvard Medical School. If the 155-pound person walks 1 mile every day at 4 mph -- and eats neither more nor less than she normally eats -- she'll lose 1 pound after 42 days. That might sound like a lot of effort for not a lot of payoff -- but you have some options for losing weight faster.
1 An average fitness walking pace is close to a 15 minute mile. 2  But, a good pace will vary depending on your fitness level, walking technique, walking goals, and terrain. 3  For general fitness walking you should walk at a pace that increases your heart rate, and you can maintain for 30 to 60 minutes. 4  Use the talk test... 1 But, a good pace will vary depending on your fitness level, walking technique, walking goals, and terrain. 2
1 If you're inactive but healthy, start with mile-long walks at a pace of three miles per hour five times a week. 2  Over the course of a month, gradually increase your distance to three miles at a pace of four miles per hour five times a week. 3  If you are unable to walk that fast, walk a little farther. 1 Over the course of a month, gradually increase your distance to three miles at a pace of four miles per hour five times a week. 2  If you are unable to walk that fast, walk a little farther. 3  You can increase the aerobic benefits of brisk walking in two ways.
Calories Burned Walking. If you weigh 155 pounds and walk at a pace of 4 miles per hour, you will burn 83 extra calories for every mile you walk, according to the Harvard Heart Letter. If you walk slower or weigh less, you burn fewer calories. To figure out how much weight you will lose walking, take the number of calories you burn on each walk and divide 3,500 by that number. This will tell you how many days it will take to lose 1 pound if you add nothing but a 1-mile walk to your daily routine.
The average human speed for a brisk walking pace is about 3.5 MPH. At that rate, it would take just about 27 hours to walk 94 miles. Assume walking for 8 hours a day, that w … ould be three days of walking and mid-morning of the fourth day to reach your destination. 2 people found this useful. 
Most of us walk briskly at about 3.5 miles per hour which takes about 17 minutes per mile or about 85 minutes for 5 miles. The faster your pace (MPH), the faster you can walk the 5 miles. If you walk at a pace of 4 MPH, then you will take 15 minutes to walk one mile or 11/4 hours to walk 5 miles. If you walk 5 MPH (which is a jog for most folks), then it will take 12 minutes to walk one mile or 1 hour to walk 5 miles. Some websites equate walking 10,000 steps with only 30 minutes of walking. Nope. That isn't possible.