Highest Average Appraisal Costs. At $620, Hawaii had the highest average cost for a home appraisal in 2014. Alaska had the second highest-priced appraisal fees, with an average of $530.
Average costs for an official home appraisal depends on the size of your home and where it is located geographically. Larger homes are more expensive to appraise than smaller homes. Homes in places with higher costs of living will naturally cost more than a home appraisal in a less expensive area. For the average home, it will cost $300 to $600 for a professional home appraisal.
The average cost of a home appraisal can vary depending on several different factors. Before entering into the appraisal process, it is important to know what an appraisal is, the different approaches taken to appraise your home and how much it costs in order to prepare you for what‘s ahead.
The cost of a home appraisal depends on multiple factors, including region. The average price of a home appraisal was $438 in 2014, according to Bankrate's annual closing-costs survey.
A home appraisal adds several hundred dollars to your closing costs on a purchase or refinance. The appraisal process generally involves an interior and exterior inspection of the property, an evaluation of comparable home prices in the area, and a formal report with a professional opinion of the home's value.
Appraisal Costs. The actual cost of a home appraisal depends largely on the size of a home and the extent of the appraisal. The standard appraisal rate is between $300 and $700 in 2010. Appraisers, though, generally charge more for larger homes and more valuable homes.
According to MortgageNewsDaily.com, the national average cost for an appraisal by a licensed professional is between $300 and $400 and should require roughly two hours of inspection time to complete.
One Los Angeles firm, A1 Los Angeles Home Appraisal, charges $75 to $150 for travel costs for some appraisals. The company also charges $50 when customers require an appraisal within two days of an inspection and $100 more for FHA appraisals, which require a lengthier report.