Bacterial infection in the stomach is mostly obtained thru intake of contaminated food and water or getting close contact with bacteria-infested objects or even animals. Bacterial infection in the stomach can also be acquired from another infected person and poor hygiene. Bacteria may also cause intestinal infection. 
By upu on June 8, 2011. Bacterial infection in stomach is a common infection. As the name suggests, it is caused by bacteria, this infection can be contracted when you eat or drink contaminated food or water, or if you are in close contact with bacteria infested object, or a person. Common symptoms of bacterial infection in stomach are: 1  Pain in stomach with cramps in the stomach. 2  Diarrhea. 3  Gastritis, with retrosternal burning and waterbrash. 4  Dark or black color of stool. 5  Cramps in abdomen. 6  Stomach ulcer. 7  Aggravation of pain in stomach after intake of food. 8  Vomiting and nausea. 9  Weight loss. 10  General feeling of tiredness. 11  Fever.
The symptoms you experience may vary according to the type of bacteria causing your infection, but they could include: 1  loss of appetite. 2  nausea and vomiting. 3  diarrhea. 4  abdominal pains and cramps. 5  blood in your stools. Numerous kinds of bacteria can cause gastroenteritis, including: 1  yersinia (found in pork). 2  staphylococcus (found in dairy products, meat, and eggs). 3  shigella (associated with water and found in swimming pools). 4  salmonella (found in meat, dairy products
Infection of the stomach or intestine is called gastroenteritis. Although gastrointestinal infection is most often caused by viruses, such infections can also be caused due to bacteria. Such infections are caused when bacteria infects the lining of the stomach or the intestine. Sometimes, some bacteria like Staphylococcus aureus produces toxins, which causes symptoms like diarrhea, nausea and vomiting. Most stomach infections are caused due to contaminated water, food, or food which has not been cooked well. Causes. Gastroenteritis is one of the most common cause of stomach infection. When gastroenteritis is caused by bacteria, such as Campylobacter jejuni, E. Coli, Salmonella etc. it is known as bacterial gastroenteritis. Helicobacter pylori, a gram-negative bacterium also causes infection in the stomach. Helicobacter pylori infection can lead to peptic ulcers, gastritis and even stomach cancer
Common symptoms of urinary tract infections include strong urge to urinate, burning sensation when urinating, frequently passing small amounts of urine, blood in the urine, or cloudy, strong-smelling urine. Vagina: When bacteria cause an infection in the vagina, it is called bacterial vaginosis. The most obvious sign of the condition is an unpleasant odor. Other symptoms often include itching and/or burning sensation near the vagina. 
H. pylori normally infect your stomach during childhood. While infections with this strain of bacteria typically don’t cause symptoms, they can lead to diseases in some people, including peptic ulcers, and an inflammatory condition inside your stomach known as gastritis. H. pylori are adapted to live in the harsh, acidic environment of the stomach.
Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) is a type of bacteria. These germs can enter your body and live in your digestive tract. After many years, they can cause sores, called ulcers, in the lining of your stomach or the upper part of your small intestine. For some people, an infection can lead to stomach cancer. Infection with H. pylori is common
If you have bacterial gastroenteritis, bacteria have caused an infection in your gut. This usually results in your stomach and intestines becoming inflamed, and you’ll probably experience unpleasant symptoms such as vomiting, severe abdominal cramps and diarrhea. Numerous kinds of bacteria can cause gastroenteritis, including: 1  yersinia (found in pork). 2  staphylococcus (found in dairy products, meat, and eggs). 3  shigella (associated with water and found in swimming pools). 4  salmonella (found in meat, dairy products
Bacterial digestive infections are diseases that affect the digestive organs as a result of ingesting of infectious bacterial organisms. Infectious bacteria scientifically known as Escherichia coli (E coli) , Salmonella, and Shigella are among the most common causes of bacterial digestive infections. 