Full Definition of SMITE. transitive verb. 1. : to strike sharply or heavily especially with the hand or an implement held in the hand. 2. a: to kill or severely injure by smiting. 3. : to cause to strike. 4. 5. 
Smite (stylized as SMITE) is a third person action multiplayer online battle arena (MOBA) video game developed and published by Hi-Rez Studios for Microsoft Windows and Xbox One. The game features many different game modes, with the most popular being Conquest. Players are formed into two teams, with three to five players to each team. All players begin at opposite sides of a map at their team's 'fountain'.
The following items upgrade Smite by adding it additional effects. 1  Poacher's Knife: Scavenging Smite: If Smite is used on a large monster in the enemy jungle, Smite's cooldown is halved and you gain +30 bonus Gold and 175% increased Movement Speed decaying over 2 seconds when killing the Smited monster. 1 Blasting Smite is especially effective as it deals half damage to all nearby minions as well. 2  An unconventional use of Smite is to instantly and unexpectedly kill a minion to land skillshots such as Rocket Grab or Death Sentence on enemy champions behind it.
smite. vb (mainly tr) , smites, smiting, smote, smitten or smit. 1. to strike with a heavy blow or blows. 2. to damage with or as if with blows. 3. to afflict or affect severely: smitten with flu.
smite. 1. to strike or hit hard, with or as if with the hand, a stick, or other weapon. 2. to deliver or deal (a blow) by striking hard. 3. to strike down, injure, or slay. 4. to afflict or attack with deadly or disastrous effect: smitten by polio. vb (mainly tr) , smites, smiting, smote, smitten or smit. 1. to strike with a heavy blow or blows. 2. to damage with or as if with blows. 3. to afflict or affect severely: smitten with flu.
Verb. 1. smite-inflict a heavy blow on, with the hand, a tool, or a weapon. hit-deal a blow to, either with the hand or with an instrument; He hit her hard in the face. vb (mainly tr) , smites, smiting, smote, smitten or smit. 1. to strike with a heavy blow or blows. 2. to damage with or as if with blows. 3. to afflict or affect severely: smitten with flu.
Smite is a targeted summoner spell that deals 「 390 – 1000 」「 390 / 410 / 430 / 450 / 480 / 510 / 540 / 570 / 600 / 640 / 680 / 720 / 760 / 800 / 850 / 900 / 950 / 1000 (370 + 20 / 30 / 40 / 50 at each level) 」 true damage to a monster or enemy minion. It is available on Summoner's Rift and the Twisted Treeline. 1 Blasting Smite is especially effective as it deals half damage to all nearby minions as well. 2  An unconventional use of Smite is to instantly and unexpectedly kill a minion to land skillshots such as Rocket Grab or Death Sentence on enemy champions behind it.
In Smite, players take on the visage of a mythological god or other mythological figure and take part in arena combat, using powers and team tactics against other player-controlled gods and non-player-controlled minions. The game features many different game modes, with the most popular being Conquest. Players are formed into two teams, with three to five players to each team. All players begin at opposite sides of a map at their team's 'fountain'.
168 pages on this wiki. Smite is a free-to-play Multiplayer-Online-Battle-Arena (MOBA) game developed by Hi-Rez Studios. The game pits two teams of five players against each other in attempt to destroy the enemy's base. Gameplay Edit. Like other MOBA games, Smite pits players in 5v5 matches against each other in a confined arena. The goal of the game is to destroy the other team's base, in this case represented by the enemy Titan, a large boss that must be defeated for the match to end. The first team to destroy the enemy team's Titan wins