USA. The celebrated little person was married on February 10th, 1863. The wedding photo of Charles Sherwood Stratton (Tom Thumb) and Lavinia Warren. Charles Sherwood Stratton seemed a perfectly normal baby when he was born in Bridgeport, Connecticut in 1838, but from the age of six or seven months he stopped growing. 
Meet the world's most premature baby boy: The incredible 'Tom Thumb', who at 25 weeks weighed less than a can of Coke. 
'Tom Thumb' 9.7oz (275g) - Germany-June 2009. This baby boy born after a mere 25 weeks he is so small that the tape measure laid next to him is bigger than his limbs, as a result of his size, the team treating him in G ttingen, Germany nicknamed him 'Tom Thumb'. 9.7 ounces (275 grammes). 'Tom Thumb' 9.7oz (275g) - Germany-June 2009 This baby boy born after a mere 25 weeks he is so small that the tape measure laid next to him is bigger than his limbs, as a result of his size, the team treating him in G ttingen, Germany nicknamed him 'Tom Thumb'.
Meet 'Tom Thumb,' the 25-week-old baby boy who weighed a mere 9.7 ounces at birth-less than a can of soda. Doctors believe the baby is likely to be the smallest premature boy to have survived in the world. He was born 15 weeks early at the University of Gottingen, in western Germany, in June. 
German doctors have revealed photographs of the smallest premature baby boy to have survived against incredible odds after being born at 25 weeks weighing just over half a pound. A boy weighing only 275 grams after being born at University Hospital Goettingen in Germany is the world's lightest ever to have survived a premature birth Photo: EPA. By Allan Hall in Berlin.
Barnum’s dream was for Queen Victoria to see General Tom Thumb. A command performance was arranged, and General Tom Thumb and Barnum were invited to visit Buckingham Palace and perform for the Queen and her family. Continued Success and a Celebrity Wedding. General Tom Thumb continued performing, and in 1856 embarked on a cross-country tour of America. A year later, along with Barnum, he again toured Europe. He began to grow again during his teens, but very slowly, and he eventually reached a height of three feet.
A fairy tale of the Brothers Grimm Grimm. 8.2 / 10 - 211 votes. Tom Thumb. There was once a poor countryman who used to sit in the chimney-corner all evening and poke the fire, while his wife sat at her spinning-wheel. 
Mini Bio (1). Tom Thumb was born on January 4, 1838 in Bridgeport, Connecticut, USA as Charles Sherwood Stratton. He was married to Lavinia Warren. He died on July 15, 1883 in Middleboro, Massachusetts, USA. 