Writer. Hobbies include hiking, genealogy and travel. The Bahamas is governed by an old Parliament Democracy with a Prime Minster as the head of the Executive Branch. Over 270 years of uninterrupted change in form of government, makes The Bahamas one of the most stable countries in the world. In the Bahamas the type of currency is the Bahamian dollar. It is based on the US dollar and people may use either the Bahamian Dollar or the US Dollar in the Bahamas. 12 people found this useful.
Government. The Bahamas are governed under the constitution of 1973 and have a parliamentary form of government. There is a bicameral legislature consisting of a 16-seat Senate and a 40-seat House of Assembly. More on the Government Bahamas from Infoplease: 1  the Bahamas: Government-Government The Bahamas are governed under the constitution of 1973 and have a parliamentary form of ...
Best Answer: The Bahamas is governed by an old Parliament Democracy with a Prime Minster as the head of the Executive Branch. Over 270 years of uninterrupted change in form of government makes The Bahamas one of the most stable countries in the world. Prior to it's independence in 1973, The Commonwealth of The Bahamas was a British Colony. and yes the bahamian government is corrupt. lol but not as bad as america's government.
The Bahamas is governed by an old Parliament Democracy with a Prime Minster as the head of the Executive Branch. Over 270 years of uninterrupted change in form of government, … makes The Bahamas one of the most stable countries in the world. Prior to it's independence in 1973, The Commonwealth of The Bahamas was a British Colony.
Structure of the Bahamas Government. The Bahamas is a parliamentary democracy similar to the of the United Kingdom, with regular elections (typically every 5 years), and an independent member of the Commonwealth of Nations. As a Commonwealth country, the Bahamas’ political and legal traditions parallel that of the United Kingdom. The Bahamas is a member of the British Commonwealth and has a parliamentary democracy, or a constitutional multi-party parliamentary democracy to be precise. The Bahamas achieved independence from Great Britain on July 10, 1973.
Bahamas's government is a Constitutional Monarchy and Parliamentary Democracy with 40 members in its legislature. Executive elections are every 5 years. 
Local government in the Bahamas exists in two forms, namely second-schedule and third-schedule district councils. There are a total of 32 local government districts: 13 second-schedule districts, which are further sub-divided into town areas, and 19 third-schedule districts, which are all unitary authorities. As stated in The Bahamas Local Government Act 1996, Districts councillors shall within two weeks of their election, elect from among themselves a Chief Councillor. The Chief Councillor shall be the representative of a Districts Council for all affairs.
Overview. Bahamas is a Commonwealth, Constitutional, and Parliamentary Democracy whose current leader is Chief Executive Hubert Ingraham. The chief executive in Bahamas typically has a term length of 5 years. Bahamas's Legislature has 40 seats, and the last legislative elections were in 2007.