Another accepted theory is that BPD may be a result of biological and genetic factors. According to research, there is evidence to suggest a genetic component. Parents with BPD have an increased likelihood of having children who are prone to BPD and other psychiatric disorders. 
Although there is no specific cause for BPD, like most other mental disorders, it is understood to be the result of a combination of biological vulnerabilities, ways of thinking, and social stressors (biopsychosocial model). Biologically, individuals with BPD are more likely to have abnormalities in the size of the hippocampus, in the size and functioning of the amygdala, and in the functioning of the frontal lobes, which are the areas of the brain that are understood to regulate emotions and integrate thoughts with emotions.
Home » Borderline Personality Disorder. The symptoms of Borderline Personality Disorder can be summarized as instability in mood, thinking, behavior, personal relations, and self-image. Individuals with the disorder may: 1  demand constant attention and make unreasonable demands. 2  avoid being alone by acting out a crisis or dramatizing a problem. 
Causes. As with other mental disorders, the causes of borderline personality disorder aren't fully understood. In addition to environmental factors — such as a history of child abuse or neglect — borderline personality disorder may be linked to: 1  Genetics. 2  Brain abnormalities. 3  Symptoms. 4  Risk factors.
Biological risk factors for BPD include a family history of this diagnosis, substance abuse, antisocial personality disorder, impulsivity, or mood instability. Many consequences of being the victim of childhood abuse can be features of BPD. 
BPD is a behaviour choice not a disease. A. Snapshot summary: 1. Multiple Personality Disorder (MPD) is a behaviour choice not a disease. 2. Borderline Personality Disorder, BPD is not caused from chemical imbalance theories of unproven Junk science. 3. Treating Multiple Personality Disorder (MPD) with drugs is like smashing a computer because of a software virus.
The main feature of borderline personality disorder (BPD) is a pervasive pattern of instability in interpersonal relationships, self-image and emotions. 
Causes of borderline personality disorder. Most experts agree that there is no single cause of borderline personality disorder (BPD). It is likely to be caused by a combination of factors. These include: 1  genetics – g enes you inherit from your parents may make you more vulnerable to developing BPD, given certain environmental factors (see below). Neurotransmitters. It is thought that many people with BPD may have altered functioning of a neurotransmitter called serotonin in their brain. Altered serotonin activity in the brain has been linked to depression, aggression and difficulty in controlling destructive urges.
Causes. For many years, it was commonly believed that the main cause of borderline personality disorder was poor or uninformed parenting. It now seems most likely that both environmental and biological factors, especially genetic ones, place a person at risk for developing the disorder. For example, psychological and social (environmental) factors, including but not limited to poor parenting, increase the risk of developing the disorder in those people biologically predisposed to it. 9 It appears that no single cause, or risk factor, is responsible by itself for causing the disorder.