Brickwork of 10 Downing Street, showing fine white fillets in carefully matched dark mortar. Tuckpointing is a way of using two contrasting colours of mortar in the mortar joints of brickwork, one colour matching the bricks themselves, to give an artificial impression that very fine joints have been made. Standard tuckpointing tools come in widths from as little as 1 mm to up to 14 mm wide, so these tools can be used for very fine detailed work up to wide stone tuckpointing work. Lengths of tools also vary depending on personal preferences, but the most common lengths are usually between 75 and 125 mm.
Stone and brick masonry is virtually maintenance free. Masonry units, brick, stone, or block can last up to 100 years. The mortar joints typically last for twenty to thirty years depending on exposure to different kinds of weather. The most common form of repair at that time is usually tuckpointing. This, of course, costs more money to repair than it does to tuckpoint the mortar joints in the first place as mentioned earlier in point number 4 above.Well, that's it, tuckpointing in a nutshell. Hopefully, you now understand a whole lot more about tuckpointing, the what, the how, the why, and the when.
1 Tuckpointing helps to prevent water from entering into the chimney system. 2  If the mortar joints are not repaired, water will seep down the chimney and sometimes between the chimney and the flue lining. 3  Moisture can do a serious amount of unseen damage, such as cause mold, mildew, and rotting wood. Tuckpointing is really a crucial procedure, to preserve the life of a chimney. Some of the benefits of performing needed tuckpointing on chimneys follow: 1  Corrosion of the mortar joints is stopped. 2  Structural stability of the chimney is restored. 3  Failing to repair mortar joints will result in a weak chimney structure which will eventually begin to lean or collapse
Tuckpointing is a method of pointing brickwork designed to make the bricks look squarer and the mortar layers look narrower. In other words to make the bricks and brickwork look superior. It is purely cosmetic. For enquiries contact David through the website www.historicbrickpointing.co.uk. 
Tuckpointing Before & After. Before: Eroded, washed out mortar joints can lead to energy loss and leaks. After: Tuckpointing and cleaning the mortar joints gives the masonry wall a clean watertight finish. Before: Separations between brick and mortar allow the ingress of air and water. After: Tuckpointing the mortar joints seals the gaps that could lead to energy loss and leaks. Before: Exposed edges on brick provide an unnecessary ledge for water to sit on and eventually penetrate into the wall. After: Tuckpointing these edges with a tooled joint can prevent a host of water infiltration problems.
The longevity of mortar joints should last about 45 years, but will vary with the exposure conditions and the material used. Since brick can last over 100 years, the occassional maintenance tast for brick masonry is the repair of mortar joints. 
1. What is Tuckpointing Anyway?Tuckpointing in general, refers to the process of repairing mortar joints in stone or brick masonry walls by grinding or raking out the old mortar to a certain depth, and then filling in with new mortar. This, of course, costs more money to repair than it does to tuckpoint the mortar joints in the first place as mentioned earlier in point number 4 above.Well, that's it, tuckpointing in a nutshell. Hopefully, you now understand a whole lot more about tuckpointing, the what, the how, the why, and the when.
Mortar, the main ingredient in tuckpointing, is the cement-type product that is used between bricks to hold them together and keep the weather out. Over the years, it becomes soft or “rotten.” It then starts to fall out, a little at a time. The first step is to determine which areas need repair. for do-self or contracted repairs ALL ABOUT TUCKPOINTING Just about every violations list for an older home includes the need for tuckpointing. Yet, few people who are told to do this repair seem to know just what tuckpointing is, much less how to do it.
1 Grounding or routing out the old mortar at a uniform depth. 2  Filling in red mortar in the newly routed grooves. 3  Cutting thin strips down the middle of the red mortar, to form grooves. 4  Filling in the grooves with a mortar color which matches the original mortar on the outside of the structure. Tuckpointing is really a crucial procedure, to preserve the life of a chimney. Some of the benefits of performing needed tuckpointing on chimneys follow: 1  Corrosion of the mortar joints is stopped. 2  Structural stability of the chimney is restored. 3  Failing to repair mortar joints will result in a weak chimney structure which will eventually begin to lean or collaps