In Australia, there are some individuals who can likewise appreciate the benefits of a cultural identity and who have subsequently created stereotypes to affirm that identity. One such Australian is Peter Cosgrove, the Australian Governor General. According to Cosgrove, 
There is no Australia Beach. Australia is an island continent, so there are brilliant beaches around much of its coastline. Tasmania does have some beaches, yes, but there a … re many more outstanding beaches around Australia, particularly in Queensland, Western Australia, Victoria and New South Wales. The name Australia was first proposed by sea explorer Matthew Flinders in the early 1800s, as part of the full name Terra Australis, meaning Southern Land. The actual … name Australia was then adopted in 1824.
The further in land you go, the hotter and dryer it becomes. It has five major cities including; Sydney, Canberra, Brisbane, Melbourne and Perth. If you drew an imaginary line from Brisbane to Melbourne, around 90% of Australia's population live in the smallest area. The name Australia was first proposed by sea explorer Matthew Flinders in the early 1800s, as part of the full name Terra Australis, meaning Southern Land. The actual … name Australia was then adopted in 1824.
The Australian Cattle Dog is an extremely intelligent, active, and sturdy dog breed. Developed by Australian settlers to handle herds of cattle on expansive ranches, he's still used today as a herding dog. He thrives on having a job to do and on being part of all family activities. Contrary to popular belief, small size doesn't necessarily an apartment dog make — plenty of small dogs are too high-energy and yappy for life in a high-rise. Being quiet, low energy, fairly calm indoors, and polite with the other residents, are all good qualities in an apartment dog.
Aussie Personality & Character. Those of us who love Aussies can't imagine a more perfect breed of dog. Unfortunately, the very characteristics we value in these dogs make them unsuitable for some homes and owners. Consider carefully if your lifestyle can accommodate the exuberance of a typical Aussie. If you have the time and commitment for an Aussie, you won't be disappointed. These special dogs deserve special owners. Their loyalty, drive, character, and whimsical sense of humor place them in a class by themselves.
The phrase  the lucky country , coined by Donald Horne, is a reference to Australia's weather, lifestyle, and history. Ironically, Horne was using the term to criticise the complacency of Australian society in the early 1960s. 
The name Australia comes from the Latin term Terra Australis meaning land of the south. Often known as Terra Australis Incognita, i.e. the unknown land of the South, it … was the name given to the unknown continent believed to exist south of the equator. The name Australia was first proposed by sea explorer Matthew Flinders in the early 1800s, as part of the full name Terra Australis, meaning Southern Land. The actual … name Australia was then adopted in 1824.
The Australian Cattle Dog gets along with other dogs in his household, especially if he's been raised with them from puppyhood. However, because he is so devoted to one person in a family, there can be jealousy or squabbles between the Australian Cattle Dog and other dogs. Contrary to popular belief, small size doesn't necessarily an apartment dog make — plenty of small dogs are too high-energy and yappy for life in a high-rise. Being quiet, low energy, fairly calm indoors, and polite with the other residents, are all good qualities in an apartment dog.
1 Although Australian Shepherds have the reputation for needing wide-open space, they do just fine in cities if they get enough stimulation and exercise. 2  They're not good apartment dogs, though. 3  You'll want at least a small yard to help them get out some of their high energy. Like many herding dogs, Australian Shepherds are by nature loyal to their family but standoffish with strangers. They need early socialization — exposure to many different people, sights, sounds, and experiences — when they're young. Socialization helps ensure that your Aussie puppy grows up to be a well-rounded dog.