Licenses and Your Rights. A license allows an intellectual property rights holder (the licensor) to make money from an invention or creative work by charging a user (the licensee) for product use. Licenses protect proprietary rights in things such as software and other computer products, for example. 
A licensing agreement is a partnership between an intellectual property rights owner (licensor) and another who is authorized to use such rights (licensee) in exchange for an agreed payment (fee or royalty). A variety of such licensing agreements are available, which may be broadly categorized as follows: 
A shorthand definition of license is a promise by the licensor not to sue the licensee.. That means without a license any use or exploitation of intellectual property by a third party would amount to copying or infringement. Territory: a license may stipulate what territory the rights pertain to. For example, a license with a territory limited to North America (Mexico/United States/Canada) would not permit a licensee any protection from actions for use in Japan.
Licensing is the practice of leasing a legally protected property (such as a trademarked or copyrighted name, logo, likeness, character, phrase or design) to another party in conjunction with a product, service or promotion. Licensing can do this by: 1  transferring the values and consumer favour towards the property to the licensed product or service. 2  providing added value and differentiation from competitive offerings. 3  providing additional marketing support or momentum from the core property’s activity provided by the licensor.
History of the Institute. Our Aims & Objectives. Licensing is a business development tool which can best be described as granting permission to a business or an individual to do something that, without the licence, would be an infringement of Intellectual Property rights. The person granting the licence is usually called the licensor, and the person receiving the licence is usually called the licensee. (There may be more than one licensor or more than one licensee in a licence agreement).
IP may be “licensed-out” or “licensed-in”. For example, you may “license-out” to another company or organisation in return for a reward, financial or other “in-kind” benefits or a combination of both. You may wish to “license-in” if you want to use another company’s IP to develop your own business and products. The person granting the licence is usually called the licensor, and the person receiving the licence is usually called the licensee. (There may be more than one licensor or more than one licensee in a licence agreement).
In order to use the licensed trademark in her design work, the artist entered into a licensing agreement with the owners of the trademark, thereby entitling her to use the trademark as a visual enhancement of her work, but with no editorial, or advertising inferred, or directly stated by her usage of it. 
DEFINITION of 'Licensing Agreement'. This term refers to a written agreement entered into by the contractual owner of a property or activity giving permission to another to use that property or engage in an activity in relation to that property. The property involved in a licensing agreement can be real, personal or intellectual
Related Terms: Licensing. A licensing agreement is a legal contract between two parties, known as the licensor and the licensee. In a typical licensing agreement, the licensor grants the licensee the right to produce and sell goods, apply a brand name or trademark, or use patented technology owned by the licensor. Another important element of a licensing agreement establishes the time frame of the deal. Many licensors insist upon a strict market release date for products licensed to outside manufacturers. After all, it is not in the licensor's best interest to grant a license to a company that never markets the product.
A license may be granted by a party (licensor) to another party (licensee) as an element of an agreement between those parties. A shorthand definition of a license is an authorization (by the licensor) to use the licensed material (by the licensee).. In particular, a license may be issued by authorities, to allow an activity that would otherwise be forbidden. It may require paying a fee and/or proving a capability. Territory: a license may stipulate what territory the rights pertain to. For example, a license with a territory limited to North America (Mexico/United States/Canada) would not permit a licensee any protection from actions for use in Japan.