rhyme. 1. identity in sound of some part, esp. the end, of words or lines of verse. 2. a word agreeing with another in terminal sound: Find is a rhyme for mind and kind. 3. verse or poetry having correspondence in the terminal sounds of the lines. 4. a poem or piece of verse having such correspondence. rhyme. 1  assonance-The condition of the words of a phrase or verse having the same sound or termination without rhyming. 2  blank verse-A verse without rhyme. 3  rhyme-From Latin rhythmus, rhythm, from Greek rhein, to flow.. 4  rhyme or reason-A phrase derived from French ni rime ni raison.
A rhyme is a repetition of similar sounds (or the same sound) in two or more words, most often in the final syllables of lines in poems and songs. The word rhyme can be used in a specific and a general sense. In the specific sense, two words rhyme if their final stressed vowel and all following sounds are identical; two lines of poetry rhyme if their final strong positions are filled with rhyming words. A rhyme in the strict sense is also called a perfect rhyme.
Sound: Rhythm & Rhyme. SOUND: Rhythm/Meter/Melody/Rhyme. You probably first read a poem to yourself, silently, but most poems also create sense though sounds, unlike concrete poetry, which operates visually. Try reading the poem aloud. 
Rhyme. Rhyme is the matching up of sounds and syllables, usually at the end of lines. External rhyme is the rhyming of words at the end of lines. Shel Silverstein's poetry is a great example of this. Rhythm is quite literally the heartbeat of a poem and serves as the backdrop from which the ideas and imagery can flow. Rhyme is the musicality behind the words and the way the phrases come together. These two elements represent the framework of poems and the techniques that set poetry apart from other prose writing
Confidence votes 190. Using rhyme in poetry gives a poem a repetitive quality by sound without repeating a line or phrase in a poem. The use of rhyme allows poetry to gain a songlike quality. Rhyme is often used in children's poetry to make the poems easier to remember. In poetry this memory concept is very important as it allows the reader to have a connection to a poem via their memory rather than just by reading the words on the page alone.
A poetry explication is a relatively short analysis which describes the possible meanings and relationships of the words, images, and other small units that make up a poem. Writing an explication is an effective way for a reader to connect a poem’s plot and conflicts with its structural features. This handout reviews some of the important techniques of approaching and writing a poetry explication, and includes parts of two sample explications.
The simple rhymed couplets chosen as a rhyme pattern give the poem a child-like, simplistic tone, almost like a nursery song (“itsy bitsy spider,” etc.) that renders the naivete, the innocence that the poet wants to give the lament. 