The best way to do this is to place the ham on a rack in a roasting pan. Add water to the bottom of the pan and cover tightly with aluminum foil (cover the pan with the ham). Cook approximately 12 to 15 minutes per pound for a whole or boneless ham and approximately 18 to 20 minutes per pound for a half ham. 
3. To Bake: Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Place ham and mix into a large baking pan with deep sides to avoid spillage in oven. Place pineapple slices on ham so they overlap each other and pile on top what's left. 4. Cover with aluminum foil and bake for 1 hour. Take off foil and bake an additional 20 minutes. 
Step 2: Baking the ham. Place the ham on a rack in a shallow roasting pan. Insert an oven-safe thermometer into the center of the ham (it should not touch the bone of a bone-in ham). Bake, uncovered, in the preheated oven until ham registers desired temperature (140°F for cooked ham). Step 1: Preheating the oven and preparing the ham. Preheat the oven to 325°F. You do not need to wash a ham before baking. This versatile meat requires no embellishment; however, scoring a diamond pattern in the skinlike outer layer and brushing on a glaze during baking makes the ham a showy centerpiece and adds flavor.
1 Place the ham, cut side down, on a large piece of foil with the shiny side up. 2  Draw up sides of foil and the add 1/2 cup of water. 3  Fold foil tightly around the ham and then place in the oven to bake. 4  Heat as directed or see the Time and Temperature Chart below. 1 The flour will help prevent the bag from bursting while cooking. 2  Place the ham, skin side up, in the oven bag. 3  Place the bag and ham in a large roaster that is at least 2 inches deep. 4  Add 3 to 4 cups of water or other liquid to the bag.
1 You can also rub some brown sugar directly on the top and sides of the ham for a sweeter ham. 2  If you decide to cook your ham directly in the can it came in, make sure you poke some holes in the top. 3  Otherwise the steam will not be able to vent and it will scold you when you open it up. Tips & Warnings. 1  You can also rub some brown sugar directly on the top and sides of the ham for a sweeter ham. 2  If you decide to cook your ham directly in the can it came in, make sure you poke some holes in the top. 3  Otherwise the steam will not be able to vent and it will scold you when you open it up.
1 Place the ham in an oven preheated to 325°F for 20 to 25 minutes per pound or until internal temperature reaches 155°F on a meat thermometer. 2  Be sure the cooking bag is not touching the sides or top of the oven, otherwise the bag might melt. 1 The flour will help prevent the bag from bursting while cooking. 2  Place the ham, skin side up, in the oven bag. 3  Place the bag and ham in a large roaster that is at least 2 inches deep. 4  Add 3 to 4 cups of water or other liquid to the bag.
Take the canned ham out and place it in a medium sized roasting pan. Pour some apricot juice in the roasting pan. Have it fill up about 1/2 of an inch high. Open a can of sliced pineapples and lay them over the top of the ham. They can overlap each other. Cover the roasting pan with tin foil. Place the roasting pan in the oven for one hour at 350 degrees. You will know the ham is ready when the pineapples begin to darken in color. Remember that the ham is already cooked, you are just heating it up. It should take about 20 minutes per pound to become fully heated. Tips & Warnings. 1  You can also rub some brown sugar directly on the top and sides of the ham for a sweeter ham. 2  If you decide to cook your ham directly in the can it came in, make sure you poke some holes in the top. 3  Otherwise the steam will not be able to vent and it will scold you when you open it up.
Directions. 1  Drain pineapple, reserving 2 tablespoons juice; set aside. 2  Place ham in a baking dish. 3  Bake at 350° for 30 minutes. 4  In a small bowl, combine the brown sugar, mustard, cloves, vinegar and reserved pineapple juice. 5  Score top of ham. 6  Place pineapple slices and cherries over ham; spoon glaze over top. 1 Drain pineapple, reserving 2 tablespoons juice; set aside. 2  Place ham in a baking dish. 3  Bake at 350° for 30 minutes. 4  In a small bowl, combine the brown sugar, mustard, cloves, vinegar and reserved pineapple juice.