In phagocytosis, or cell eating, the cell engulfs debris, bacteria, or other sizable objects. Phagocytosis occurs in specialized cells called phagocytes, which include macrophages, neutrophils, and other white blood cells. Invagination produces a vesicle called a phagosome, which usually fuses with one or more lysosomes containing hydrolytic enzymes.
Phagocytosis and pinocytosis are types of endocytosis, which is the  process of absorbing molecules into the cell. Phagocytosis refers  to cell eating, while pinocytosis mea … ns cell drinking. Pinocytosis is the introduction of fluids into a cell by invagination of the cell membrane, followed by formation of vesicles within the cells. Phagocytosis is the eng … ulfing and ingestion of bacteria or other foreign bodies by phagocytes. 10 people found this useful.
The Process of Phagocytosis. Let's use the example of a white blood cell engulfing an invading bacterium to illustrate the process of phagocytosis. A cell that engages in phagocytosis is called a phagocyte. First, the white blood cell has to recognize the invader and realize that it needs to be destroyed. It recognizes signal molecules released by the bacterium and is drawn toward it. When Pac-Man opens his mouth and consumes one of the dots, it's a little bit like phagocytosis. Phagocytosis is a type of endocytosis. Endocytosis is a process through which a cell absorbs a particle, molecule, bacterium, or other type of matter by engulfing it. Phagocytosis refers to the engulfing of larger, solid particles
Summary. Phagocytosis is a type of endocytosis, a process through which a cell consumes material by engulfing it with its membrane. Phagocytosis is the engulfing of large particles, such as entire cells. When Pac-Man opens his mouth and consumes one of the dots, it's a little bit like phagocytosis. Phagocytosis is a type of endocytosis. Endocytosis is a process through which a cell absorbs a particle, molecule, bacterium, or other type of matter by engulfing it. Phagocytosis refers to the engulfing of larger, solid particle
Phagocytosis is a process used by cells to engulf and subsequently ingest particles of nutrients or bacteria. This process is a very important part of cell function, allowing cells to grab vital nutrients and allowing the body to protect itself from harmful bacteria. Phagocytosis is important in the creation of food vacuoles for unicellular organisms, such as the paramecium. Phagocytosis helps the body protect itself from harmful bacteria. Phagocytes dispose of cells that have undergone apoptosis, or programmed cell death. View slideshow of images above.
Confidence votes 54. Phagocytosis is the cellular process of engulfing solid particles by the cell membrane to form an internal phagosome, or food vacuole.. Pinocytosis is the introduction of fluids into a cell by invagination of the cell membrane, followed by formation of vesicles within the cells. Phagocytosis is the eng … ulfing and ingestion of bacteria or other foreign bodies by phagocytes. 10 people found this useful.
In humans and other multicellular animals, phagocytosis is an important defense mechanism against infection by microorganisms (e.g. bacteria) and the process of removing cell debris (e.g. dead tissue cells) and other foreign bodies. Steps of a macrophage ingesting a pathogen : a. 
Best Answer: PHAGOCYTOSIS Phagocytosis (literally cell-eating) is a form of endocytosis wherein large particles are enveloped by the cell membrane of a (usually larger) cell and internalized to form a phagosome, or food vacuole.. This is called phagotrophic nutrition, as distinguished from osmotrophic nutrition, which takes place by absorption. In some, such as amoebae, phagocytosis takes place by surrounding the target object with pseudopods, as in animal phagocytes. In other protozoa, for instance, ciliates, there is a specialized groove or chamber in the cell where phagocytosis takes place, called the cytostome or mouth