Normal, fertile soils teem with soil microbes. In fact, there may be hundreds of millions to billions of microbes in a single gram [about 4 hundredths of a pound and about the size of a navy bean in volume)(See Table 1)]. Not only are the numbers of soil microbes generally very large, their combined mass (i.e. the soil microbial biomass) is also usually quite substantial. It can range from several hundred to thousands of pounds per acre of soil (Table 2).
How to encourage soil organisms Soil organisms range from bacteria (0.000001 mm) to giant tunnelling earthworms (1 m). They all play an essential role in decomposing organic matter, cycling nutrients and fertilising the soil. 
By far, the most numerous microbes in soil are bacteria, which have just one cell. Also abundant are fungi, which produce long, slender strings of cells called filaments, or hyphae. The actinomycetes are in-between these two organisms. They are advanced bacteria that can form branches like fungi. 
Without soil microorganisms, insects, and worms feeding on organic matter, the nutrients in organic matter would remain bound in complex organic molecules that plants can’t utilize. Second, as soil organisms break down organic matter, their activities help improve soil structure. 1 The bacteria contain more nitrogen than the protozoa can utilize and some ammonium (NH4) is released to plants. 2  Protozoa also prevent some pathogens from establishing on plants and function as a food source for nematodes in the soil food web. 3  Nematodes – Nematodes are small, unsegmented round worms.
Soils rich in organic matter such as beneficial soil microbes and that have been treated with organic fertilizers will require significantly less EM•1® than soils with low organic matter and those that have been treated with conventional synthetic fertilizers. EM•1® lives on the organic matter and clay particles in your soil. To improve soil conditions and accelerate the conversion of plant residue to stable humus, spray all plant residue with EM•1®.
Microbes make nutrients in the soil available to plants in a form the plants can use. Microbes create some of those nutrients, and we (with Nature’s help) add the rest. Because the plants are healthier, they resist disease better, and tolerate environmental stress better. Microbes improve soil structure by the humus they create while digesting organic matter. Microbes help in nitrogen fixing. It is the microbes that convert the NPK and minerals in the soil into a form our plants can use to grow and produce food and flowers for us. Microbes Microbes are everywhere. They are in the air, in the rivers and oceans, in our drinking water, in the soil, and on our skin.
Some bacteria affect water movement by producing substances that help bind soil particles into small aggregates (those with diameters of 1/10,000-1/100 of an inch or 2-200µm). Stable aggregates improve water infiltration and the soils water-holding ability. What bacteria lack in size, they make up in numbers. A teaspoon of productive soil generally contains between 100 million and 1 billion bacteria. That is as much mass as two cows per acre. Figure 1: A ton of microscopic bacteria may be active in each acre of soil.
Most are decomposers that consume simple carbon compounds, such as root exudates and fresh plant litter. By this process, bacteria convert energy in soil organic matter into forms useful to the rest of the organisms in the soil food web. A number of decomposers can break down pesticides and pollutants in soil. What bacteria lack in size, they make up in numbers. A teaspoon of productive soil generally contains between 100 million and 1 billion bacteria. That is as much mass as two cows per acre. Figure 1: A ton of microscopic bacteria may be active in each acre of soil.
This soil food web is the basis of healthy, living soil. Significant soil organisms involved in the soil food web include: 1) bacteria, 2) fungi, 3) protozoa, 4) nematodes, 5) arthropods, and 6) earthworms. 1  Bacteria – Bacteria are simple, single-celled microorganisms. 2  Bacteria inhabit a wide variety of habitats, including soil. 1 The bacteria contain more nitrogen than the protozoa can utilize and some ammonium (NH4) is released to plants. 2  Protozoa also prevent some pathogens from establishing on plants and function as a food source for nematodes in the soil food web. 3  Nematodes – Nematodes are small, unsegmented round worms.
The plant supplies simple carbon compounds to the bacteria, and the bacteria convert nitrogen (N2) from air into a form the plant host can use. When leaves or roots from the host plant decompose, soil nitrogen increases in the surrounding area. What bacteria lack in size, they make up in numbers. A teaspoon of productive soil generally contains between 100 million and 1 billion bacteria. That is as much mass as two cows per acre. Figure 1: A ton of microscopic bacteria may be active in each acre of soil.