Dietitians and nutritionists counsel patients on nutrition issues. Dietitians and nutritionists are experts in food and nutrition. They advise people on what to eat in order to lead a healthy lifestyle or achieve a specific health-related goal. Dietitians and nutritionists who are self-employed may meet with patients, or they may work as consultants for a variety of organizations. They may need to spend time on marketing and other business-related tasks, such as scheduling appointments and preparing informational materials for clients.
A Dietitian is an expert in food and nutrition. Dietitians give dietary advice, help promote healthy eating habits and develop specific diets for people. If you are looking to make an appointment, please feel free to contact me via the website contact form, to call on 07597900041, or email on anne@amdietetics.com. Dietitians work in such a wide variety of areas these days. You will find that most would have been sure to have completed at least a few years “grounding” work in Hospitals, working with a wide range of clinical conditions.They can be general or complex.
Registration, licensure and certification requirements vary by state. Dietitians work in a variety of settings, with the majority working in hospitals, nursing homes, outpatient care centers, physicians' offices, or private consultation. Others work in public health, corporate wellness, or the food industry. Dietitians can help people with a variety of nutrition-related diseases. Dietitians need at least a bachelor's degree and must complete a dietetic internship, ranging in duration from 6 months to 2 years. After the internship, they are eligible to take the registration exam.
Dietitians may work in many of the same settings as Nutritionists, such as public health and community nutrition, research and teaching, food industry and nutrition marketing and communications. However, Dietitians are also qualified to work in private clinical practice, hospitals and the medical nutrition industry. 
A dietitian (or dietician) is an expert in dietetics; that is, human nutrition and the regulation of diet. A dietitian advises people on what to eat in order to lead a healthy lifestyle or to achieve a specific health-related goal. Dietitians work in a variety of settings from clinical to community and public policy to media communications. In addition, a large number of registered dietitians work in community and public-health settings, and/or in academia and research. A growing number of dietitians work in the food industry, journalism, sports nutrition, corporate wellness programs, and other non-traditional dietetics settings.
Dietitians are highly qualified professionals educated in science, management, human development, and health of populations. As trusted professionals, dietitians fill many roles, depending on where they work. Some examples include: Nutrition specialists who counsel and support clients to make changes in their eating habits to promote health and prevent chronic illness such as high blood pressure, diabetes, heart disease, cancer.
Clinical dietitians and nutritionists provide medical nutrition therapy. They work in hospitals, long-term care facilities, clinics, private practice, and other institutions. They create nutritional programs based on the health needs of patients or residents and counsel patients on how to lead a healthier lifestyle. Dietitians and nutritionists who are self-employed may meet with patients, or they may work as consultants for a variety of organizations. They may need to spend time on marketing and other business-related tasks, such as scheduling appointments and preparing informational materials for clients.
Day to day work of a Dietitian may include: 1  educating and advising clients on how food and healthy eating habits can prevent illness and achieve and maintain optimum health. 2  educating and advising a wide range of patients on how therapeutic diets and dietary therapy can improve the management of their conditions. Dietitians work in such a wide variety of areas these days. You will find that most would have been sure to have completed at least a few years “grounding” work in Hospitals, working with a wide range of clinical conditions.They can be general or complex.
Dietitians can work in a range of areas including in acute and community health sectors, as health educators, in private practice (freelance), in food service and industry, in sport, research, in media and in public health. Dietitians work in such a wide variety of areas these days. You will find that most would have been sure to have completed at least a few years “grounding” work in Hospitals, working with a wide range of clinical conditions.They can be general or complex.