Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times/Redux. Annette Gordon-Reed won the Pulitzer Prize for her book, The Hemingses of Monticello. Andrew Johnson, the so-called accidental president, is often cited among America's worst leaders. Annette Gordon-Reed is inclined to agree. In her book Andrew Johnson, she calls attention to the opportunities he missed that might have helped resolve racial inequities that still plague the U.S. today. 
Andrew Johnson (December 29, 1808 – July 31, 1875) was the 17th President of the United States, serving from 1865 to 1869. Johnson became president as he was vice president at the time of President Abraham Lincoln's assassination. A Democrat who ran with Lincoln on the National Union ticket, Johnson came to office as the Civil War concluded.
Confidence votes 5.6K. First off, Andrew Johnson is generally not thought to be the worst president in US history. In a 1962 historians poll, which ranked 31 presidents from Great to Failure, Warren G. Harding was ranked last, Andrew Johnson was ranked 23rd. Answer Yes, Andrew Johnson (NOT Lyndon Johnson) was the first of two US Presidents to be impeached in 1868 by the House of Representatives. He was acquitted by a single vote … in his Senate trial. Answer Yes, he was. But he was not taken out of office. He was sent to trial but was seen as not guilty.
Since then, some presidents have risen in the eyes of historians, like James K. Polk and Andrew Jackson. Andrew Johnson’s ratings have plummeted like a rock. In a recent 2010 Siena College survey, Johnson was called the worst president in history. A 2011 survey from a British academic institute ranked Johnson as 36th out of 40 presidents.
Andrew Johnson is considered by most historians to be the worst  President of the United States. He grossly miscalculated public  policy perceptions and did not have a knack … for peace making. 
Buchanan, Pierce, and Harding have always been considered really bad presidents by historians. Andrew Johnson has taken the place of Ulysses S. Grant, who has received an upgrade from “bad” to “mediocre” in recent years. Andrew Johnson’s ratings have plummeted like a rock. In a recent 2010 Siena College survey, Johnson was called the worst president in history. A 2011 survey from a British academic institute ranked Johnson as 36th out of 40 presidents.
Johnson was born in 1808 in North Carolina. He served in the Senate and the House and as governor, and then military governor, of Tennessee. It was when he was serving as military governor that Abraham Lincoln asked him to replace Hannibal Hamlin as vice president in the 1864 campaign. A Democrat, Johnson switched parties for the election. Andrew Johnson’s ratings have plummeted like a rock. In a recent 2010 Siena College survey, Johnson was called the worst president in history. A 2011 survey from a British academic institute ranked Johnson as 36th out of 40 presidents.
Andrew Johnson was by far the worst. He didn't want to be President, just wanted to cash in for himself. He didn't care for anyone but himself. He was incompetent and unfortunately, he let the U.S. slide into a deep post-war depression that was worse than the 1930's. 
Introduction. Andrew Johnson (1808-1875), the 17th U.S. president, assumed office after the assassination of Abraham Lincoln (1809-1865). Johnson, who served from 1865 to 1869, was the first American president to be impeached. A tailor before he entered politics, Johnson grew up poor and lacked a formal education. Johnson’s political career began in 1829, when he was elected alderman in Greeneville. That same year, Andrew Jackson (1767-1845), a fellow Democrat and Tennessean, became the seventh U.S. president. Like Jackson, Johnson considered himself as a champion of the common man.
No.Andrew Johnson was a white president. Barack Obama is the first African American president. Johnson served from April 15, 1865 - March 4, 1869. and he was served in after L … incoln's assassination. Answer Yes, Andrew Johnson (NOT Lyndon Johnson) was the first of two US Presidents to be impeached in 1868 by the House of Representatives. He was acquitted by a single vote … in his Senate trial. Answer Yes, he was. But he was not taken out of office. He was sent to trial but was seen as not guilty.