Example sentences. 1  Preparation for migration and for winter requires a period of hyperphagia and a laying down of fat reserves. 2  Although hyperphagia is well documented during and prior to migration, it is not known whether it persists until birds reach their breeding grounds. 1 Although hyperphagia is well documented during and prior to migration, it is not known whether it persists until birds reach their breeding grounds. 2  Children with Prader-Willi syndrome show extreme hyperphagia and obsessive-compulsive behavior.
1 Preparation for migration and for winter requires a period of hyperphagia and a laying down of fat reserves. 2  Although hyperphagia is well documented during and prior to migration, it is not known whether it persists until birds reach their breeding grounds. 1 Although hyperphagia is well documented during and prior to migration, it is not known whether it persists until birds reach their breeding grounds. 2  Children with Prader-Willi syndrome show extreme hyperphagia and obsessive-compulsive behavior.
Definition of HYPERPHAGIA. : abnormally increased appetite for consumption of food frequently associated with injury to the hypothalamus. — hy·per·phag·ic \-ˈfa-jik\ adjective. ADVERTISEMENT. Medical Definition of HYPERPHAGIA. : abnormally increased appetite for food frequently associated with injury to the hypothalamus—compare polyphagia. — hy·per·phag·ic \-ˈfaj-ik\ adjective.
Novelty induced hypophagia Edit. Novelty-induced hypophagia: Hypophagia, one of the anxiety symptoms in rodents, is defined as the reduction in feeding in response to novelty, and it can be evoked by various novel features of the environment, including novel food, novel testing environment and novel food containers. Novelty-induced hypophagia (NIH) is a very recently developed test, which measures the latency and consumption of food in a novel unfamiliar environment. The test rather reflects the anxiolytic effects of antidepressants, and the response is seen only after chronic treatment with antidepressants rather than acute.
In biology, polyphagia is a type of phagy, referring to an animal that feeds on many kinds of food. Polyphagia or hyperphagia is excessive hunger or increased appetite. It derives from the Greek words πολύς (polys) which means very much or many, and φαγῶ (phago) meaning eating or devouring. Causes of increased appetite include: 1  Anxiety. 2  Depression. 3  Certain drugs. 4  Diabetes mellitus. 5  Hyperthyroidism. 6  Hypoglycemia.
bu•lim•i•a. 1. Also called bulim′ia ner•vo′sa (nɜrˈvoʊ sə) a habitual disturbance in eating behavior characterized by bouts of excessive eating followed by self-induced vomiting, purging with laxatives, strenuous exercise, or fasting. 2. Also called hyperphagia. abnormally voracious appetite or unnaturally constant hunger
In medicine, polyphagia (sometimes known as hyperphagia) is a medical sign meaning excessive hunger and abnormally large intake of solids by mouth. Causes of increased appetite include: 1  Anxiety. 2  Depression. 3  Certain drugs. 4  Diabetes mellitus. 5  Hyperthyroidism. 6  Hypoglycemia.
hyperphagia (hī´pərfā´jēə) , n a disorder marked by an abnormal appetite and excessive ingestion of food, even to the point of gastric pain and vomiting. It is associated with the malfunction of the hypothalamus and is often linked to conditions such as Kleine-Levin syndrome and central nervous disorders. 