Full Definition of BLUDGEON. 1. : a short stick that usually has one thick or loaded end and is used as a weapon. 2. See bludgeon defined for English-language learners. See bludgeon defined for kids.
Noun. 1. bludgeon-a club used as a weapon. cosh, blackjack, sap-a piece of metal covered by leather with a flexible handle; used for hitting people. club-stout stick that is larger at one end; he carried a club in self defense; he felt as if he had been hit with a club. bludgeon. To domineer or drive into compliance by the use of as threats or force, for example: browbeat, bulldoze, bully, bullyrag, cow, hector, intimidate, menace, threaten. Informal: strong-arm.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: bludgeon (Noun). A short, heavy club, often of wood, which is thicker or loaded at one end. We smashed the radio with a steel bludgeon. bludgeon (Verb). To strike or hit with something hard, usually on the head; to club. The apprehended rioter was bludgeoned to death. Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: bludgeon (verb). a club used as a weapon. bludgeon (verb). overcome or coerce as if by using a heavy club. The teacher bludgeoned the students into learning the math formulas. club, bludgeon (verb). strike with a club or a bludgeon
This morning, our subject is the bludgeonings of chance and I think many of you will recognize that phrase. That title comes from the well known poem by William Henley which many of you learned in school, 
1. (Arms & Armour (excluding Firearms)) a stout heavy club, typically thicker at one end. 2. a person, line of argument, etc, that is effective but unsubtle. vb (tr). 3. to hit or knock down with or as with a bludgeon. 4. (often foll by into) to force; bully; coerce: they bludgeoned him into accepting the job. bludgeon. To domineer or drive into compliance by the use of as threats or force, for example: browbeat, bulldoze, bully, bullyrag, cow, hector, intimidate, menace, threaten. Informal: strong-arm.
The noun BLUDGEON has 1 sense: 1. a club used as a weapon. Familiarity information: BLUDGEON used as a noun is very rare. • BLUDGEON (verb). The verb BLUDGEON has 2 senses: 1. overcome or coerce as if by using a heavy club. 2. strike with a club or a bludgeon. Familiarity information: BLUDGEON used as a verb is rare.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by BTDT. Confidence votes 293. Usually to beat someone with a heavy object or in the figurative sense, to bully or coerce someone into doing something. It means (Instead). I told her to do it this way, where as she insisted on doing it her own way and got it all wrong I told her to do it this way, instead she insisted on d … oing it her own way and got it all wrong.