In a 3.5 ounce serving of cantaloupe there is less than 0.2 grams of fat, which is literally nothing. There are also just 35 calories in the same size serving, again a very minimal amount. Just like other types of melon, the cantaloupe has a high water content, and as we all know water is calorie and fat free. I also hope that you are no longer unsure as to whether or not cantaloupe is fattening. For more information on cantaloupe calories, and exact figures of the nutrients it contains, please check out the cantaloupe page on my calorie site, via the link below.
No it is not fattening. Cantaloupe is mostly water and is very low in calories (about 55-60 calories per 1 cup serving). Whether watching your weight or not, cantaloupe is rich in beta-carotene, potassium, and vitamins C and A. 1 Served alone as a snack or mixed with other fruits in a breakfast fruit salad, cantaloupe is delicious. 2  When 3  …. Cantaloupe: Low in Calories, High in Flavor Cantaloupes, also known as muskmelons, are a great food to eat whether you are trying to lose weight or just wanting to eat better.
What's more is that cantaloupe is crammed full of nutrients, just like other natural foods, so the only effects that the fruit is going to have on your body, your diet, and your weight, are positive ones. I also hope that you are no longer unsure as to whether or not cantaloupe is fattening. For more information on cantaloupe calories, and exact figures of the nutrients it contains, please check out the cantaloupe page on my calorie site, via the link below.
What's New and Beneficial About Cantaloupe. 1  Because the flesh of the cantaloupe is often pastel-like in color (compared to the more vibrant color of fruits like oranges), we sometimes forget how important cantaloupe can be as a fruit source of vitamin A (in the form of carotenoids). 1 This chart graphically details the %DV that a serving of Cantaloupe provides for each of the nutrients of which it is a good, very good, or excellent source according to our Food Rating System. 2  Additional information about the amount of these nutrients provided by Cantaloupe can be found in the Food Rating System Chart.
Boost your vitamin A intake with fresh cantaloupe. A healthy diet should include between 1.5 and 2 cups of fruit daily, recommends the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Melons, such as watermelon, honeydew and cantaloupe, all contribute to this daily fruit intake. Cantaloupe consumed on its own makes for a convenient and healthy snack, but the melon complements the flavors of a range of other meals and snacks. Try topping balled cantaloupe with cottage cheese or Greek yogurt -- both foods provide a source of protein, a nutrient largely absent in cantaloupe alone.
Let’s put your mind to rest at once; watermelons are not fattening! Watermelon is a fruit rich in water content (90% water). It is highly beneficial for health. It helps increase the water content in our body; it contains necessary minerals like potassium and is a great source of vitamin C and vitamin A. 
Aim for 1 to 1.5 cups of fruit daily when trying to lose weight. Photo Credit Jupiterimages/liquidlibrary/Getty Images. Cantaloupe is a low-calorie fruit that can be included in any healthy weight-loss meal plan. But eating too much cantaloupe to lose weight can drain your energy, hinder weight loss and lead to nutrient deficiencies. Adding protein-rich foods to cantaloupe can help boost satiety for overall calorie control. Cantaloupe’s low calorie content makes it an ideal choice during weight loss. Honeydew melon, strawberries and apples are also lower-calorie fruits that are beneficial when you’re trying to lose weight. Examples of higher-calorie choices include canned fruits with added syrup or sugar, dried fruits, grapes and bananas.
1 Because the flesh of the cantaloupe is often pastel-like in color (compared to the more vibrant color of fruits like oranges), we sometimes forget how important cantaloupe can be as a fruit source of vitamin A (in the form of carotenoids). 1 This chart graphically details the %DV that a serving of Cantaloupe provides for each of the nutrients of which it is a good, very good, or excellent source according to our Food Rating System. 2  Additional information about the amount of these nutrients provided by Cantaloupe can be found in the Food Rating System Chart.