The leaves of Asclepias species, and of some species formerly classified as Asclepias such as Gomphocarpus physocarpus, are the only food source for monarch butterfly larvae and other milkweed butterflies. Asclepias species produce some of the most complex flowers in the plant kingdom, comparable to orchids in complexity.
The main monarch host plant is Asclepias syriaca (common milkweed). Other species used by monarchs, in order of their abundance and preference, are A. incarnata (swamp milkweed), A. tuberosa (butterflyweed), A. verticillata (whorled milkweed), and A. exaltata (poke milkweed). Many of these species are rare, threatened, and endangered. Monarchs utilize about 30 of these species as host plants with some regularity. This Fall, Monarch Watch needs seed donations to continue our restoration efforts. Please use the map below to see which milkweed seed is needed in your region.
There are 21 native milkweed species in Florida and eight native species in south Florida (see sidebar). While some of these species may not be quite as showy as A. curassavica, they work perfectly well as monarch attractants. While other butterflies, including others in the Danainae family (the milkweed butterflies), migrate, the monarch is the only butterfly species in the world to undertake a long-distance roundtrip migration.
(Redirected from Common Milkweed). Asclepias syriaca, commonly called common milkweed, butterfly flower, silkweed, silky swallow-wort, and Virginia silkweed, is a species of flowering plant. It is in the genus Asclepias, the milkweeds. This species is native to southern Canada and of much of the conterminous eastern U.S., east of the Rocky Mountains, excluding the drier parts of the prairies. It grows in sandy soils and other kinds of soils in sunny areas. Common milkweed is a perennial herb growing up to 2.6 m tall from a rhizome. All parts of common milkweed plants produce white latex when broken. The leaves are opposite or sometimes whorled; simple, broad ovate-lanceolate; up to 25 cm long and 12 cm broad, usually with undulate margins and reddish main veins.
There are 108 native Asclepias species in North America—so wherever you live along the migration routes, there are native species you can substitute for A. curassavica in a monarch garden. For lists of Asclepias species native to each region of the U.S., visit http://plants.usda.gov/java/profile?symbol=ASCLE. While other butterflies, including others in the Danainae family (the milkweed butterflies), migrate, the monarch is the only butterfly species in the world to undertake a long-distance roundtrip migration.
There are 73 species of native milkweeds in the United States. Many of these species are rare, threatened, and endangered. Monarchs utilize about 30 of these species as host plants with some regularity. This Fall, Monarch Watch needs seed donations to continue our restoration efforts. Please use the map below to see which milkweed seed is needed in your region.
2. © John Anderson, Hedgerow Farms Overview Fifteen species of milkweed are native to California. These drought-tolerant plants play a critical role in supporting a tremendous range of pollinators, and occur in nearly all of the state’s eco-regions. California’s Rare Milkweeds There are nine other milkweed species native to California. Their potential for habitat restoration efforts is limited because they are either uncommon, have a restricted distribution, or have strict habitat requirements. Several occur only in the Mo-jave and Sonoran Deserts.
The monarch's larval host plant is the milkweed (genus Asclepias), of which there are more than 100 species across North America. Milkweeds grow most abundantly in disturbed habitats such as agricultural landscapes and along roadsides, but they are in decline for several reasons. While other butterflies, including others in the Danainae family (the milkweed butterflies), migrate, the monarch is the only butterfly species in the world to undertake a long-distance roundtrip migration.
I was wanting to pretty-up my veggie garden with a small flower garden to the side. I was thinking a butterfly garden b/c of the swallowtails that were on my dill and carrots last year and I wanted to help the Monarchs. I was looking at Milkweed pics and noticed the seed pod. Looks like it disperses in the wind. I find it to be a magnet for Monarchs. Unfortunately, it is VERY invasive in good soil. A note about the Monarch situation: Last spring, my milkweed was covered with Monarch eggs.
Deforestation due to European settlement may have expanded the range and density of common milkweed. This plant can become invasive; it is naturalized in several areas outside of its native range, including Oregon and parts of Europe. Common milkweed is a perennial herb growing up to 2.6 m tall from a rhizome. All parts of common milkweed plants produce white latex when broken. The leaves are opposite or sometimes whorled; simple, broad ovate-lanceolate; up to 25 cm long and 12 cm broad, usually with undulate margins and reddish main veins.