Cast Iron Pans. Many people choose this pan because it seems to be the healthiest option, least toxic. – Pros: There have been discussion of toxins in chemically treated pans, but with a cast iron skillet you avoid these bad toxins. Cast Iron pans are an all-time classic and can be used in the oven or the stove. They spread heat evenly and are consistent heat conductors. If you properly care for your cast iron pan, it can last a lifetime. 
Lodge is a good brand and I try to recommend brands that will be widely available to my readers. There's not much difference in the cost and I recall that my 10 inch Lodge cast iron skillet was about $15.00. When you buy a cast iron pan you need to cure it to keep food from sticking. Here's how: 1  Use an oil without much flavor, like canola oil.
If you decide to purchase a cast iron skillet make sure it is of good quality. I do not recommend the newer 'Lodge' brand as they are rough and food tends to stick to a rough surface. I would recommend that you look for a good skillet in a second hand store. Cornbread just isn't right baked in anything but a cast iron skillet. Heat up the skillet in the oven with a little butter in it while you make the batter. Pour batter into hot skillet and enjoy the sizzling sound. When baked, enjoy the lovely crisp crust
Roasts, stews, and fricassees can also be cooked in a skillet. Skillets are made from a variety of materials. The most popular is cast iron which is also the material used in the making of most frying pans. A frying pan is a flat-bottomed pan which is used for frying, searing, and browning food. It has low sides, a long handle, and has no lid.
Dr. Gourmet Says... I agree with you that the quality of a cast iron skillet is likely to be of little difference between brands. Certainly casting iron is a lower tech manufacturing process than a copper and stainless steel skillet, for instance. There's not much difference in the cost and I recall that my 10 inch Lodge cast iron skillet was about $15.00. When you buy a cast iron pan you need to cure it to keep food from sticking. Here's how: 1  Use an oil without much flavor, like canola oil.
I've used my cast iron skillets for 40+ years and they're still in great shape. I wash them with soap and water and dry with paper towels. If I burn something in one and it sticks on, I will use a nylon scouring pad and re-season-no problem! Cornbread just isn't right baked in anything but a cast iron skillet. Heat up the skillet in the oven with a little butter in it while you make the batter. Pour batter into hot skillet and enjoy the sizzling sound. When baked, enjoy the lovely crisp crust.
We get a lot of questions about cooking with cast iron. Cast iron skillets and pots are attractively inexpensive, and the idea of replacing our nonstick pans with them is appealing. But there's a learning curve to using cast iron. Reader Amanda is interested in getting started. I'm interested in using cast iron cookware, but not sure where to begin. A cast iron pan does have different care instructions. Cast iron pans build up a layer of seasoning, which is a baked-on film of oils and liquids that protects the pan from rusting and also creates a nonstick effect. Most new pans come pre-seasoned, but you still need to season them. • Technique: Seasoning Cast Iron.
Yeah there'a a huge difference between cast iron and non-stick pans. Cast iron is thick, heats like a beast, and holds the heat evenly and well. You do have to know how to care for them if you want to built a finish that's non-stick. Cornbread just isn't right baked in anything but a cast iron skillet. Heat up the skillet in the oven with a little butter in it while you make the batter. Pour batter into hot skillet and enjoy the sizzling sound. When baked, enjoy the lovely crisp crust