Well if you had implantation bleeding, you usually will be able to test in about 4 or 5 days after that. If you have taken a pregnancy test already and it is negative, and then you take another one that is positive, your conception date would be about two weeks ago. I had my period starting on 9/13, lasted for 5 days and my boyfriend and I had unprotected sex 3 times. The 22nd, 23rd, 24th of those days were the start of my fertile days. I ovulated on 9/27. Now today I’ve had a really bad headache, and some very very mild cramps, just feel strange today.
In humans, implantation of a fertilized ovum is most likely to occur about 9 days after ovulation, ranging between 6 and 12 days. With some disparity between sources, it has been stated to occur from 7 days after ovulation until 9 days after ovulation, or days 6-10 postovulation. On average, it occurs during the 20th to the 23rd day after the last menstrual period.
1 Implantation occurs on day 6-10 after the egg retrieval. 2  Which is 1 to 5 days after a blastocyst transfer. 3  Which is equivalent to day 20-24 of a natural menstrual cycle (idealized 28 day cycle). 
Definitely your ex. Takes at least 3-4 days after implantation to get a positive result on a HPT. So to be the new guy it would have had to be at least 10 days before you got a + and you only had 6. Little one wouldn’t have even implanted yet. I had my period starting on 9/13, lasted for 5 days and my boyfriend and I had unprotected sex 3 times. The 22nd, 23rd, 24th of those days were the start of my fertile days. I ovulated on 9/27. Now today I’ve had a really bad headache, and some very very mild cramps, just feel strange today.
Implantation typically occurs 6 to 10 days after ovulation, or day 20 to 24 of a menstrual cycle. However, it can happen a few days earlier or later. In an average 28-day cycle, ovulation occurs on day 14 with the first day of a woman's period being considered day 1 in a cycle. 
Implantation bleeding does not occur with every woman. Usually only about 30% of women will experience implantation bleeding. You will usually see implantation bleeding 4 to 7 days before your period is due if you are one of the 30%. I had my period starting on 9/13, lasted for 5 days and my boyfriend and I had unprotected sex 3 times. The 22nd, 23rd, 24th of those days were the start of my fertile days. I ovulated on 9/27. Now today I’ve had a really bad headache, and some very very mild cramps, just feel strange today.
At this early stage of prenatal development, the embryo is called a blastocyst. Implantation of a fertilized ovum is most likely to occur about 9 days after ovulation, but can range between 6 to 12 days. Use this calculator to find the most likely date range for implantation based on your cycle: 
Soon after implantation occurs, the embryo begins producing human chorionic gonadotropin (HGC), a key pregnancy hormone. HGC is also the hormone that pregnancy tests detect. Implantation can occur anywhere from six to 12 days after ovulation, with it taking an average of about 10 days. However, it can take a couple of days after implantation for the body to produce sufficient levels of HGC for pregnancy tests to measure. 
The journey of the ovaries from the time of bursting to the time that they land at the fallopian tube often take a duration of 24-36 hours and this varies from one woman to another among other related factors. Up to ovulation, it takes only 24-36 hours before a mature egg arrives in the fallopian tube. In conclusion, many medical practitioners have discussed this question of how long after ovulation does implantation occur without agreeing on an exact duration. This is because of the unique characteristics of different women.
The implantation window follows around 6 days after the peak in luteinizing hormone levels. With some disparity between sources, it has been stated to occur from 7 days after ovulation until 9 days after ovulation, or days 6-10 postovulation. On average, it occurs during the 20th to the 23rd day after the last menstrual period.