Brief History of Rockets. Today's rockets are remarkable collections of human ingenuity that have their roots in the science and technology of the past. They are natural outgrowths of literally thousands of years of experimentation and research on rockets and rocket propulsion. 
Nose Cone. The nose cone of the rocket has a shape that causes the air to flow smoothly around the rocket. It could be conical in shape, but at subsonic speeds a rounded shape gives lower aerodynamic drag. The nose cone is typically made from plastic, balsa wood, hardwood, fiberglass, or styrofoam. 
Rocket aerodynamics is the study of how air flows over a rocket and how this affects drag and stability. The nose cone and fins of a rocket are designed to minimise drag (air resistance) and to provide stability and control (keep it pointing in the right direction without wobbling). Fins control direction and stability. The stability of a rocket is its ability to keep flying through the air pointing in the right direction without wobbling or tumbling. Fins are used on smaller rockets to provide this stability and control direction.
Production begins on the “Rocket,” a coach-built carbon fiber 725hp super mustang project by Galpin Auto Sports and Henrik Fisker. 
Official: Rocket explosion tragic but ... 01:09. One thing officials do know is that rocket science is, in the words of NASA Administrator Bill Gerstenmaier, a really tough business.. Tonight's events really show the difficulty that it takes for us to do this task of delivering cargo to the space station, he said. An unmanned NASA-contracted rocket exploded in midair early Tuesday evening, producing huge flames and loud booms along the eastern Virginia coast but no injuries or deaths. Orbital Sciences Corp.'s Antares rocket and Cygnus cargo spacecraft had been set to launch at 6:22 p.m
rock·et 1. n. 1. a. A rocket engine. b. A vehicle or device propelled by one or more rocket engines, especially such a vehicle designed to travel through space. 2. A projectile weapon carrying a warhead that is powered and propelled by rockets. 3. A projectile firework having a cylindrical shape and a fuse that is lit from the rear. 
The Rocket. In 1824 Edward Pease joined with Michael Longdridge, George Stephenson and his son Robert Stephenson, to form a company to make the locomotives. The Robert Stephenson & Company, at Forth Street, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, became the world's first locomotive builder. 
View full size image. Today, rockets routinely take astronauts into space, launch satellites and do tests in the upper atmosphere. But it's really only been in the past 70 years or so that these machines have been used for applications leading to space exploration. 