As a natural stone tile material, travertine emerges pitted from the quarry, but can be finished into tumbled travertine tiles and polished travertine tile for those projects requiring a more refined look. Travertine is a natural stone tile that has been used down through history to enhance the beauty of buildings both public and private. Such famous structures as the Roman Colosseum and the Colonnade of St. Peter’s were constructed, in part, out of travertine.
Some quartzites and onyx are actually subsets of marble, while travertine and limestone are the sedimentary stones that metamorphic marble is formed from. When purchasing a stone tile labeled tumbled marble, always ask what the stone actually is to learn the best way of caring for it. Types of Tumbled Tile. Any type of stone tile can be turned into a tumbled stone tile. This includes marble, granite, travertine, onyx, limestone, quartzite and slate. The most common stone to find tumbled is marble, and many different types of stone may be labeled as tumbled marble when in fact they are onyx, limestone, quartzite or travertine. This is because all of these stones are made of calcium
Store SO SKU # 1000523807. Chiaro is a natural stone travertine that illustrates a rustic old world charm. Perfect for today's casual lifestyle. With a large selection of sizes and accessories to choose from, chiaro can easily be laid in a pattern or single layout. 
Travertine Warehouse has been a direct importer of travertine tile since 2003 and offers a huge selection of finishes, tile sizes, patterns and colors direct to the public at affordable prices. Samples are free, and there are always ongoing specials and discounts available. Travertine is a natural stone tile that has been used down through history to enhance the beauty of buildings both public and private. Such famous structures as the Roman Colosseum and the Colonnade of St. Peter’s were constructed, in part, out of travertine.
1,298 Saves | 5 Questions. Unlike marble, which is soft and scratches easily, travertine is natural stone that’s hard enough to withstand wear and tear. Honed travertine is usually sanded smooth and used in interiors, while the more textured ‘ tumbled ’ travertine is used outside to prevent slips and to disguise dirt. 
Travertine is a natural stone, just like marble, granite, and limestone—in fact, travertine is a type of limestone, as is marble. (We know today that marble actually began as a limestone before it underwent metamorphosis from immense pressures and high temperatures over time.) However they are not the same. Travertine is typically polished to a smooth finish, honed into a matte finish, brushed/tumbled into a textured surface, filled to a smoother finish, or chiseled to an uneven finish. Travertine has some telltale characteristics that separate it from regular limestone.
The tile floor is a tumbled travertine in a custom layout, the countertops are a light emprador marble, the kitchen island is taupe. Eclectic Kitchen & First Floor Remodel. 506 Saves | 2 Questions. The tumbled travertine tile backsplash behind the kitchen’s wine bar has an oil-rubbed-bronze trim for an elegant and rustic look. The back inside wall of the antique glass-front upper cabinets mimics the beadboard seen on the back of the island base.
Travertine and Marble tiles are typically used in interior applications for flooring and walls. Travertine Warehouse offers the most comprehensive exclusive Tile collections available in the US. If you’re interested in the Affordable Elegance of Travertine or Marble tiles for your Home or Commercial space? Our Tiles are available in a multitude of Color Ranges, Sizes, and Finishes designed to offer you the perfect Flooring or Wall Cladding Option s for your Signature Build. Our Travertine and Marble Tiles are the ideal choice for: