The cause of the disorder is a small one-way valve, called the lower esophageal sphincter (LES), located between the esophagus and the stomach. When functioning properly, the LES allows food and water to pass into the stomach, but prevents backward flow. 
Click to read more below. The pyloric sphincter is a band of smooth muscle at the junction between the pylorus of the stomach and the duodenum of the small intestine. It plays an important role in digestion, where it acts as a valve to controls the flow of partially digested food from the stomach to the small intestine. The pyloric sphincter prevents the regurgitation of chyme from the duodenum into the stomach. It also controls the flow of chyme into the intestine, which provides the intestines with a manageable volume of chyme from which to absorb nutrients.
The pylorus is considered as having two parts, the pyloric antrum (opening to the body of the stomach) and the pyloric canal (opening to the duodenum). The pyloric canal ends as the pyloric orifice, which marks the junction between the stomach and the duodenum. The orifice is surrounded by a sphincter, a band of muscle, called the pyloric sphincter. The word pylorus comes from the Greek πυλωρός, gate guard. The pylorus is the furthest part of the stomach that connects to the duodenum. It is divided into two parts, the antrum, which connects to the body of the stomach, and the pyloric canal, which
The pyloric sphincter, or valve, is a strong ring of smooth muscle at the end of the pyloric canal which lets food pass from the stomach to the duodenum. It receives sympathetic innervation from the celiac ganglion. The pylorus is the furthest part of the stomach that connects to the duodenum. It is divided into two parts, the antrum, which connects to the body of the stomach, and the pyloric canal, which
The stomach has three main parts. The top is called the fundus. The middle is called the body of the stomach. The bottom is called the antrum or pylorus. There is a valve called a sphincter at each end of the stomach. The valve between the oesophagus and the top of the stomach is called the cardiac sphincter. The valve between the bottom of the stomach and the duodenum is called the pyloric sphincter
Introducing Your Ileocecal Valve. Between the small intestine and the large intestine is a sphincter-type valve called the Ileocecal Valve (ICV). The purpose of this valve is to “prevent backflow” from the Large Intestine, once any material leaves the Small Intestine. Not all the contents entering the digestive tube are going to be absorbed as food. 
The pyloric sphincter is a valve that controls the movement of the stomach contents from the stomach into the duodenum at the start of the intestines. The pyloric sphincter prevents regurgitation from the intestines into the stomach. An endoscopy may be performed to diagnose conditions involving the pyloric sphincter. An illustration of a human stomach. The pyloric sphincter is located at the bottom of the stomach, where it connects to the duodenum.
Picture of the Stomach. © 2009 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. The stomach is a muscular organ located on the left side of the upper abdomen. The stomach receives food from the esophagus. As food reaches the end of the esophagus, it enters the stomach through a muscular valve called the lower esophageal sphincter. The stomach secretes acid and enzymes that digest food. Ridges of muscle tissue called rugae line the stomach. 
Pyloric Sphincter. The pyloric sphincter is a band of smooth muscle at the junction between the pylorus of the stomach and the duodenum of the small intestine. It plays an important role in digestion, where it acts as a valve to controls the flow of partially digested food from the stomach to the small intestine. The pyloric sphincter prevents the regurgitation of chyme from the duodenum into the stomach. It also controls the flow of chyme into the intestine, which provides the intestines with a manageable volume of chyme from which to absorb nutrients.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. To hold the food within the stomach there are two valves. At the top of the stomach is the lower esophageal sphincter (LES) which prevents backsplash of stomach contents upward into the esophagus. At the bottom of the stomach is the pyloric which controls the drain of the stomach. 