I am not on birth control, but my menstrual cycles seem to be getting lighter and lasting shorter periods. My cycles use to last 7-8 days, but this month and last they have been cut short. Looks like I stopped 3 days into the cycle last month and then started back the next day. And this month. I started a little earlier, instead of going 28 days with no period, I went 26 days. 
As long as a woman's short menstrual period is part of a steady pattern and fits within this range, this is normal menstruation for her body. If your period lasts for three days, month in and month out, that's your pattern, says Maria Arias, MD, a gynecologist at Atlanta Women's Specialists in Georgia. Reasons for a Short Menstrual Period. Estrogen is the all-important hormone required to create the endometrium each month.
The menstrual cycle is from Day 1 of bleeding to Day 1 of the next time of bleeding. Although the average cycle is 28 days, it is normal to have a cycle that is shorter or longer. Girls usually start having menstrual periods between the ages of 11 and 14. Women usually start to have fewer periods between ages 39 and 51. Women in their 40s and teens may have cycles that are longer or change a lot. 
The menstrual cycle, which is counted from the first day of one period to the first day of the next, isn't the same for every woman. Menstrual flow might occur every 21 to 35 days and last two to seven days. For the first few years after menstruation begins, long cycles are common. 
Identification. The length of women's menstrual cycles can vary from woman to woman and even from cycle to cycle, so many are unsure what exactly constitutes abnormal. While the average menstrual flow occurs once every 28 days, most women have cycles between 24 and 34 days long, according to MedlinePlus. 
See a picture of a woman's reproductive system. The menstrual cycle is measured from the first day of menstrual bleeding, Day 1, up to Day 1 of your next menstrual bleeding. Although 28 days is the average cycle length, it is normal to have a cycle that is shorter or longer. 1  A teen's cycles may be long (up to 45 days), growing shorter over several years.
“Normal” menstruation can differ widely from woman to woman — anywhere from three to seven days of bleeding is considered normal, and each full menstrual cycle can last anywhere from 21 to 35 days. Three days of bleeding, which may seem short, is still considered normal as long as you’re menstruating regularly. If your period lasts for three days, month in and month out, that's your pattern, says Maria Arias, MD, a gynecologist at Atlanta Women's Specialists in Georgia. Reasons for a Short Menstrual Period. Estrogen is the all-important hormone required to create the endometrium each month.
A normal menstrual cycle usually has a length of 28 days, where a woman usually ovulates at mid-cycle and menstruates for 5-7 days approximately two weeks after ovulation. The first day of menstruation marks the beginning of a new cycle, two weeks after which another ovulation occurs. This occurs 11-13 times a year, and menstrual cycles may normally vary to be as short as 21 days or as long as 35 days. The duration of a normal menstrual period may also vary among different women. You may have a period that lasts for as short as 3 days and as long as 7 days