Preheat oven to 450째F. Toss parsnips with oil and salt to taste in a shallow (1-inch-deep) baking pan and roast in middle of oven, turning over halfway through cooking, until golden and tender, 30 to 35 minutes total.
Method. 1  Heat oven to 200C/180C fan/gas 6. 2  Cook the potatoes and parsnips in a large pan of boiling salted water for 3 mins. 3  Drain, then separate potatoes from parsnips. 4  Meanwhile, pour the oil into a roasting tin and heat for 5 mins. 5  Coat the potatoes in the hot oil, then roast for 25 mins. 1 Coat the potatoes in the hot oil, then roast for 25 mins. 2  Remove from oven, add the parsnips and garlic, then return to the oven and cook for a further 30 mins, giving the tin a shake halfway through.
1 Heat oven to 200C/180C fan/gas 6. 2  Cook the potatoes and parsnips in a large pan of boiling salted water for 3 mins. 3  Drain, then separate potatoes from parsnips. 4  Meanwhile, pour the oil into a roasting tin and heat for 5 mins. 5  Coat the potatoes in the hot oil, then roast for 25 mins. 1 Coat the potatoes in the hot oil, then roast for 25 mins. 2  Remove from oven, add the parsnips and garlic, then return to the oven and cook for a further 30 mins, giving the tin a shake halfway through.
1 Drain, then separate potatoes from parsnips. 2  Meanwhile, pour the oil into a roasting tin and heat for 5 mins. 3  Coat the potatoes in the hot oil, then roast for 25 mins. 4  Remove from oven, add the parsnips and garlic, then return to the oven and cook for a further 30 mins, giving the tin a shake halfway through. 1 Coat the potatoes in the hot oil, then roast for 25 mins. 2
Scatter rosemary sprigs over. Roast for 10 minutes; turn parsnips and roast until parsnips are tender and browned in spots, 10-15 minutes longer. Crumble leaves from rosemary sprigs over; discard stems and toss to coat. Sprinkle 1/2 teaspoon cumin over. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and more cumin, if desired. 
1 Return the roasting tin to the oven and roast for 10 mins. 2  Turn all the parsnips over and roast for a further 10 mins or until the parsnips are golden brown. 3  Remove from the pan with a slotted spoon, drain on kitchen paper. 1 Preheat the oven to 220째C/425째F/Gas 7. 2  Cut the parsnips into even bite-sized chunks or finger thick wedges. 3  Place them in a large saucepan, cover with cold water and bring to the boil. 4  Once boiling reduce the heat and simmer for 5 mins, the parsnips should be slightly tender but absolutely not soft.
Place the cut vegetables on a sheet pan. Add the olive oil, salt, and pepper and toss well. Roast for 20 to 40 minutes, depending on the size of the vegetables, tossing occasionally, until the parsnips and carrots are just tender. Sprinkle with dill and serve hot
Place the parsnips into a roasting tin. Pour the oil over the parsnips and mix them well so that the oil covers all of the pieces. Pour the maple syrup over the parsnips and transfer the roasting tin to the oven. Roast the parsnips for 35 minutes, or until they are tender and golden-brown. To serve place on a clean serving dish
Toss carrots and parsnips with 2 Tbsp. oil, season with salt, and spread in a single layer on prepared baking sheet. Roast until vegetables begin to brown, 20 to 25 minutes, shaking pan 2 or 3 times during cooking time. Mix remaining oil, garlic and thyme. 
1 Place the oil in a roasting tin and heat in the oven. 2  Meanwhile, peel the parsnips and cut, depending on their size, lengthways in half or quarters to form even-sized pieces. 3  Carefully place the parsnips into the hot oil, and turn to coat. 4  Roast for 40-45 minutes, until golden, turning halfway through. 1 Preheat the oven to 200째C, gas mark 6. 2  Place the oil in a roasting tin and heat in the oven. 3