Shed moving mule will make your life much easier. Other ways to move a backyard shed include lifting it up on a flatbed truck, for longer hauls, rather than across the yard. You can also use a dolly for short trips. And finally, there is an item similar to a forklift, called a mule that can move sheds into place. There are many, many ways to move a shed. The easiest way to move your backyard shed is by using a crane or a forklift. A crane will lift the shed up and over any debris. Heck, you can even move the shed to another yard.
The task of moving a storage shed can be very complicated or straightforward, depending on the size of shed, construction type, or what the shed is made of, where the shed is located and where it will be moved. The shed can be moved by using a crane to pick it up and move it, or it can be moved manually using rollers. Locate the area on the property where the shed will be moved. Determine the route the shed will travel and remove any obstacles in the path, including rocks, debris, and any other items that could block the moving process. Place the plywood or 2-foot by 4-foot boards on the ground if the ground is not paved
How to move a small shed is easy. Just get a few friends and put one on each corner and maybe one in between. Lift the shed and move it across the yard. Or put it on the back of a pickup or flat bed trailer if you have to move it across town. How to move a large shed across town in much more difficult because it takes some specialized equipment. The hard part is getting it up on a trailer. A large shed can weigh anywhere from 1500 pounds to several tons. And getting it up high enough to get a trailer under is the challenging part.
Next up, using a forklift to move your shed will also be the simplest bet. Lifting the shed up with a forklift or a small loader will be simple and save time. If you don’t have a crane or forklift, and need to move your shed by hand, that can easily be done as well. There are many, many ways to move a shed. The easiest way to move your backyard shed is by using a crane or a forklift. A crane will lift the shed up and over any debris. Heck, you can even move the shed to another yard.
Please try again later. http://www.cheapsheds.com/videos/ This video will show you how to move a shed across the yard by hand using fairly common items. I have used this method to move up to 12 x 24 sheds by hand. All you need is a jack, a few pipe rollers and some wood tracks. If you have to move a shed across town or disassemble a shed to move it, I have covered both those topic in other posts which you can read on my website, www.cheapsheds.com.
Moving a shed may be necessary for a few reasons. If you have one in your backyard already, you may need to move it to another location on your property. If you are moving and your new home does not have a shed, you can choose to have your shed moved to your new home. If you do not have a shed but want one, you could look for a used shed and then have it moved to your house from the seller’s house. 1 With most companies, moving a shed is going to depend on the size, the contractor performing the job, geographical location and if there are any complexities. 2  On average, plan on spending anywhere from $125 to $300 to move a shed within 50 miles. 3  This is an ideal price range for sheds that are 10-by-14 or smaller
Move A Large Shed Across The Yard. How to move a large shed across the yard is a little trickier but it only takes some basic equipment and a bit of technique. You will need some pipe to roll it on and a few strong backs to push. I have a detailed article here on how to move a shed by hand. How to move a large shed across town in much more difficult because it takes some specialized equipment. The hard part is getting it up on a trailer. A large shed can weigh anywhere from 1500 pounds to several tons. And getting it up high enough to get a trailer under is the challenging part.
The safest way to move a large shed is to hire a tow truck with a tilt bed. They can drop their bed, hitch on to the shed with a cable and wench it up on the truck. Or you might call a local shed company and see if they can move it. How to move a large shed across town in much more difficult because it takes some specialized equipment. The hard part is getting it up on a trailer. A large shed can weigh anywhere from 1500 pounds to several tons. And getting it up high enough to get a trailer under is the challenging part.