Grover, the satyr and protector helped Percy a lot. He finds Percy at Yancy Academy, escorts him to Camp Half Blood, accompanies him on the quest to retrieve the bolt and so o … n. During the quest, Grover saves Percy's and Annabeth's life many times. Percy calls Grover his best friend.
Grover is played by Brandon T. Jackson in the movies Percy Jackson & the Olympians: The Lightning Thief and Percy Jackson: Sea of Monsters the film adaptations of the first and second books in the series, The Lightning Thief and The Sea of Monsters.
Grover Underwood is a fictional character in Rick Riordan 's Percy Jackson and the Olympians series. He is a satyr, a mythological Greek being that is half goat and half human. He has the upper body of a human and the legs and horns of a goat. He uses fake feet when he wants to look like a human.
Character Analysis. The G-man. Percy's best and only friend in the world. Grover has stuck by Percy throughout sixth grade and has kept watch over him. Percy meets Grover at Yancy Academy and spends much of the time protecting him: Grover was an easy target. He was scrawny. He cried when he got frustrated.
Main article: Percy Jackson and the Olympians: The Lightning Thief (video game) Grover is one of the main characters in the video game for The Lightning Thief. He has no resistance or vulnerability to any types of moves.
In the film, The Lightning Thief, Grover is played by Brandon T. Jackson. Aside from his ethnicity being changed from Caucasian to African American, Grover's personality is also changed from being somewhat timid and self-doubting, to being confident and smooth.
The Lightning Thief, written by Rick Riordan, is the first book in the Percy Jackson and the Olympians series. The book was adapted into a motion picture and a graphic novel in 2010.
The G-man. Percy's best and only friend in the world. Grover has stuck by Percy throughout sixth grade and has kept watch over him. Percy meets Grover at Yancy Academy and spends much of the time protecting him: Grover was an easy target. He was scrawny.