Save. fortification /ˌfoɚtəfəˈkeɪʃən/ noun. plural fortifications. fortification. /ˌfoɚtəfəˈkeɪʃən/. noun. plural fortifications. Learner's definition of FORTIFICATION. 1. [noncount] : the act of building military defenses to protect a place against attack: the act of fortifying something. They began the fortification and reconstruction of the city. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. 2. [count] : a structure (such as a wall or tower) that is built to protect a place — usually plural. The city was protected by massive fortifications
fortification. n. 1. the act, art, or science of fortifying or strengthening. 2. (Fortifications). fortification-the addition of an ingredient for the purpose of enrichment (as the addition of alcohol to wine or the addition of vitamins to food). enrichment-act of making fuller or more meaningful or rewarding.
fortification. system of defense structures for protection from enemy attacks. Fortification developed along two general lines: permanent sites built in peacetime, and emplacements and obstacles hastily constructed in the field in time of war. 
1.1 [mass noun] The action of fortifying or process of being fortified: the fortification of the frontiers. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  Not about to sit by idly as other categories steal their calcium franchise, dairy processors have turned to fortification to recapture share of stomach. 1 A defensive wall or other reinforcement built to strengthen a place against attack: the building and maintenance of fortifications a medieval fortification. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  Mortars were originally developed for siege warfare to lob munitions over walls and other fortifications.
Full Definition of FORTIFICATION. 1. : an act or process of fortifying. 2. : something that fortifies, defends, or strengthens; especially: works erected to defend a place or position. See fortification defined for English-language learners. See fortification defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Mentioned in? 1  beriberi. 2  figure. 3  folic acid. 4  fortification phenomenon. 5  fortification spectrum. 6  fortified food. 7  ground. 8  hemicrania. 9  iron deficiency anemia. 10  maginot line pattern. 11  migraine. 12  mineral deficiency. 13  Natrum muriaticum. 14  phenomenon. 15  premunition. 16  scintillating scotoma. 17  scotoma. 18  sick headache. 19  solar retinopathy. 
Food fortification was identified as the second strategy of four by the WHO and FAO to begin decreasing the incidence of nutrient deficiencies at the global level. As outlined by the FAO, the most common fortified foods are: 1  Cereals and cereal based products. 
fortification. n. 1. the act, art, or science of fortifying or strengthening. 2. (Fortifications). a. a wall, mound, etc, used to fortify a place. 
But she only laughed, ran up the steps, and rang the bell; and while she was waiting for the door to open, kept close in the porch, and talked to him from that point as out of a fortification. Tales and Fantasies by Stevenson, Robert Louis View in context. 