Microtubules are cylindrical tubes, 20-25 nm in diameter. They are composed of subunits of the protein tubulin--these subunits are termed alpha and beta. Microtubules act as a scaffold to determine cell shape, and provide a set of tracks for cell organelles and vesicles to move on.
The long fibers of the cytoskeleton are polymers of subunits. The primary types of fibers comprising the cytoskeleton are microfilaments, microtubules, and intermediate filaments. Microfilaments are fine, thread-like protein fibers, 3-6 nm in diameter.
The cytoskeleton of a cell is made up of microtubules, actin filaments, and intermediate filaments. These structures give the cell its shape and help organize the cell's parts. In addition, they provide a basis for movement and cell division.
Actin filaments are the most abundant of the three types of cytoskeletal filaments. Actin filaments are composed of the protein actin and form long, thin fibers.
The cytoskeleton is responsible for cell shape, motility (movement) of the cell as a whole, and motility of organelles within a cell. There are three types of filaments in the cytoplasm of most vertebrate cells: microfilaments, microtubules, and intermediate filaments. All of these filament systems share a critical feature: They are composed of proteins that have the unique property of being able to self-assemble into a filamentous network.
There are three types of cytoskeleton, each of which plays unique roles within cells. These are actin filaments, microtubules and intermediate filaments. All have thin, fibrous structures and are polymers of basic unit proteins. They have unique characteristics and perform various functions according to their nature. The cytoskeleton has both structural roles and functional roles.
Common to all eukaryotic cells, these filaments are primarily structural in function and are an important component of the cytoskeleton, along with microtubules and often the intermediate filaments. Microfilaments range from 5 to 9 nanometers in diameter and are designed to bear large amounts of tension.