Character Analysis. Hygelac, the king of the Geats, is Beowulf's lord and ring-giver. As a ring-giver, it is Hygelac's job to give land and treasures to his thanes, or lords, in order to reward them for their loyalty and service.
Beowulf is a hero character in the film or the poem of Beowulf. In the story he kills a monster called Grendel who didn't allow people to have feast in the mead Hall { a big h … all where the people have feast and enjoy themselves.
Hrethel—Father of Higlac, Hathcyn, and Herbald; married his daughter to Edgetho; Beowulf’s grandfather; took Beowulf to live with him at age seven and loved him as a son; king of the Geats. Wiglaf—Wexstan’s son; a former Swede; the only soldier who accompanies Beowulf into his last and fatal battle with the dragon.
Wiglaf is a young Geatish warrior in Beowulf's retinue who follows him to the barrow where the dragon is lurking. When all of Beowulf's other thanes, or lords, abandon him, Wiglaf remains loyally with his king, encouraging and supporting him.
Edgetho: Beowulf’s father, who was a renowned warrior and married to Beowulf’s mother, Hrethel’s only daughter. Efor: A Geat warrior who kills the Swedish king named Ongentho, and is given Higlac’s daughter as a reward. Esher: Danish nobleman in the councils of King Hrothgar and his trusted friend.
Beowulf, son of Ecgtheow, is a mighty warrior and a slayer of monsters. He is also a thane (lord) in the hall of the Geats' ring-giver (king.) He first hews down the monster G … rendel, who has been slaughtering folk in huge numbers, at Heorot, the hall of the Danish ring-giver, and then kills the monster's mother.
Wiglaf is the old King Beowulf's most loyal warrior. In Beowulf's last battle as he attempts to slay the dragon, all of his warriors desert him except Wiglaf. Together they slay the dragon. As Beowulf is dying from his wounds, it is Wiglaf who retrieves the dragon's treasure and brings it to Beowulf, as Beowulf had asked him to do.
Beowulf-The protagonist of the epic, Beowulf is a Geatish hero who fights the monster Grendel, Grendel’s mother, and a fire-breathing dragon. Beowulf’s boasts and encounters reveal him to be the strongest, ablest warrior around. In his youth, he personifies all of the best values of the heroic culture.