Arrays can be passed as arguments to method parameters. Because arrays are reference types, the method can change the value of the elements. Passing Single-Dimensional Arrays As Arguments. You can pass an initialized single-dimensional array to a method. For example, the following statement sends an array to a print method. C#. Copy. The following code shows a partial implementation of the print method. C#. Copy. You can initialize and pass a new array in one step, as is shown in the following example.
Passing an Array to and from a Function or Subprocedure in VB6 Passing an Array to and from a Visual Basic 6 Function or Subprocedure In last month's article, I discussed how to use a For…Each statement to 'loop' through the elements of an Array. In fact, if for no other reason, you should get comfortable with the notion since API function and procedure calls frequently require that you pass an Array of some kind to them, and may also have, as a return value, an Array.Let's first see how we can create a procedure that accepts, as an argument
If you want to pass a single-dimension array as an argument in a function, you would have to declare function formal parameter in one of following three ways and all three declaration methods produce similar results because each tells the compiler that an integer pointer is going to be received. 
You can pass static arrays to procedures, just as you can dynamic arrays. As with dynamic arrays, static arrays are passed by reference. The only difference is that you cannot resize a static array. For example, the following code passes a static array to a function. The SumArray function just loops through the array, summing the values, and returns the result.
If you want to pass a single-dimension array as an argument in a function, you would have to declare function formal parameter in one of following three ways and all three declaration methods produce similar results because each tells the compiler that an integer pointer is going to be received. C++ does not allow to pass an entire array as an argument to a function. However, You can pass a pointer to an array by specifying the array's name without an index.
So I tried passing an array as an argument to a function so that the no. of things I can work with can be dynamic, decided by the elements in the array. When I started searching for solutions, I came across this page. add a comment |. up vote 0 down vote. js argument can be any type and no limit to the number of argument, but it is recommanded use 3-4 arguments at most, if there are more args, you can pass it as an object or array. you don't need to worry about the type of args, js will do the job.
In a previous column, I claimed that passing an array as a function argument was impossible. The problem is that the array is implicitly converted, or decays, into a pointer. The pointer, alas, doesn't store the array's dimension; it doesn't even tell you that the variable in question is an array. I recently received an e-mail message from a reader who proposed a technique for passing arrays as arguments without the implicit conversion to pointers.
Outline • Arrays in terms of pointers – Multi-dimensional – Pointer arrays • Pointers as function arguments • Pointers as function return value 2. Pointer Arrays: Pointer to Pointers • Pointers can be stored in arrays • Two-dimensional arrays are just arrays of pointers to arrays. 
Example 1: Passing One-dimensional Array to a Function. C++ Program to display marks of 5 students by passing one-dimensional array to a function. Output. When an array is passed as an argument to a function, only the name of an array is used as argument. Also notice the difference while passing array as an argument rather than variable. The argument used marks in the above code represents the memory address of first element of array marks[5] . And the formal argument int m[5] in function declaration decays to int* m; 