Report Abuse. Refrigerator (4°C or 40°F) Whole chicken (2-3 days) Chicken pieces (2-3 days) Cooked chicken (3-4 days) Ground chicken (1-2 days) You could also freeze it for up to 3 months. Source(s): www.chicken.ca see the page on Storage and Thawing Guidelines: http://www.chicken.ca/DefaultSite/index_... Marty B · 7 years ago.
Cooked chicken could be good up to 4 days. Raw chicken is best used within 1 or 2 days. You should store the chicken in the coldest part of the refrigerator for best shelf life or put it in freezer if not used within that time frame. Thawed chicken should be cooked as soon as possible. If not using the chicken immediately, store in the refrigerator and use within 24 hours of thawing. Thaw frozen chicken using one of three methods: in the refrigerator; in a cold water bath, changing the water every 30 minutes; or in the microwave.
1 Fried chicken: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 4 months (freezer). 2  Cooked ground chicken or turkey: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 2 to 3 months (freezer). 3  Cooked chicken nuggets: 1 to 2 days (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer). 4  Meats with gravy or sauces: 1 to 2 days refrigerator or 6 months (freezer). 1 Cooked ground chicken or turkey: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 2 to 3 months (freezer). 2  Cooked chicken nuggets: 1 to 2 days (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer). 3  Meats with gravy or sauces: 1 to 2 days refrigerator or 6 months (freezer).
Cooked salmon will stay good longer than raw salmon. You can keep cooked salmon in the refrigerator for about 5 days. Any longer than that and it will start to spoil.  … . + 56 others found this useful. Kay Cook. The question and answer are locked and cannot be edited. NEVER thaw chicken at room temperature. USDA recommends 1-2 days of refrigerated storage (40°F). Depending upon the packaging of the chicken, how it was handled in-transit, and the temperature in the refrigerator, the chicken could last longer.
(Also) I feel like I’m limited to what I can do with the chicken once its cooked. Thanks for your help, SS. Dear SS: According to Foodsafety.gov, uncooked poultry is safe in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, and safe in the freezer for 9 months (for pieces) and up to 12 months for whole chickens or turkey. Cooked poultry is safe refrigerated for 3-4 days. You can also freeze your cooked breaded chicken cutlets (tightly wrapped in foil or saran wrap and place in freezer bags) for 1-3 months. Just pull it out the night before you want to have it and thaw in the fridge. 
Eating leftovers saves time and money, but food spoils if you leave it in the refrigerator too long. In general, refrigerated chicken leftovers are safe to eat for three to four days. However, proper storage and handling of leftover food is necessary to prevent dangerous bacterial growth. 
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. 11 people found this useful. Thawed chicken should be cooked as soon as possible. If not using the chicken immediately, store in the refrigerator and use within 24 hours of thawing. Thaw frozen chicken using one of three methods: in the refrigerator; in a cold water bath, changing the water every 30 minutes; or in the microwave.
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container.  . + 42 others found this useful. NEVER thaw chicken at room temperature. USDA recommends 1-2 days of refrigerated storage (40°F). Depending upon the packaging of the chicken, how it was handled in-transit, and the temperature in the refrigerator, the chicken could last longer.