On average, pullets, or juvenile hens, start laying eggs at about 6 months of age, depending on the breed. Larger, heavier birds like Wyandottes, Plymouth Rocks and Orpingtons will lay on the later side whereas lighter, smaller breeds like Leghorns, Stars, and Australorps will start laying sooner. 
Commercial egg producers cull layers (called battery hens) when they're one to three years old. Meat birds are slaughtered at six to eight weeks. Backyard flocks see hens living more than five years, with a few living to eight or more years. The oldest recorded hen lived to a ripe old age of 16. By the time your hen reaches three years old, her egg output has dropped to 65 percent of her maximum laying ability. This declines rapidly to where if your hen lives to 10 years old, she will only lay 20 percent of the maximum egg output of her first year. Matilda, the hen that lived to 16 years old, did not lay eggs
Introduction. The age at which your hens will begin to lay depends on their breed type. Hybrids are the earliest birds to start laying, starting about 1 month earlier than non-hybrids. Non-hybrids, which include our rare and heritage breeds, typically begin laying about one month later than hybrids. Most of the egg laying hybrids start laying at 4 to 5 months of age. These include Pearl White Leghorns, Black Stars, and Red Stars. Hybrid egg layers are bred by crossing two different lines or breeds.
As the hen ages they stop laying every day and eventually stop altogether. The US Department of Agriculture reports the average hen lays about 260 eggs per year, about 5 per week. They have a lifespan of about 10 years and will usually slow egg production as they age. Many other factors can affect the bird's ability to lay, however. This will vary depending on the breed of the hen. You can expect the first eggs sometime around week 20 (5 months) Some hens take a few weeks longer to produce. Give t … hem a boost by feeding a Laying pellet type feed that is a bit higher in protein and minerals needed to form good solid eggs.
Chickens usually don't simply stop laying eggs when they get to a certain age, but they will lay fewer as they get older. That said, most laying breeds will lay more or less productively in backyard terms for five or seven years. 
Yes chickens doo. they start to lay eggs at about … 6-8 weeks of age regardless if there is a rooster around or not. if you have a rooster you can not eat the eggs as they may be fertile. in extreem heat or cold chickens may not lay for a few weeks expectialy if the temprature changed quickley. This will vary depending on the breed of the hen. You can expect the first eggs sometime around week 20 (5 months) Some hens take a few weeks longer to produce. Give t … hem a boost by feeding a Laying pellet type feed that is a bit higher in protein and minerals needed to form good solid eggs.
Egg production peak before age 2 and drop from there. Most hens will stop production at around age 3 with only the occasional egg offered after that. There have been reports of hens laying well past 5 years old but these are exceptions rather than normal. This will vary depending on the breed of the hen. You can expect the first eggs sometime around week 20 (5 months) Some hens take a few weeks longer to produce. Give t … hem a boost by feeding a Laying pellet type feed that is a bit higher in protein and minerals needed to form good solid eggs.
Due to their vulnerability, the average age of a backyard chicken is only about 3 or 4 years, although I feel that with special protection and care it would not be unreasonable to expect 7 or 8 years. My oldest hen is a New Hampshire red/blue bantam cochin mix named Sarah. She is 11 years old and still laying. Believe it or not, chickens have quite an impressive lifespan! The maximum age of a chicken is around 25 years. It's very rare for a chicken to live that long, however, because they are so vulnerable to predators and disease.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Chickens, whether the chicken is brown, white, blue, red or, or... all start laying eggs when they are mature enough to do so. The average age for chickens to start laying eggs is 5-6 months of age. You will notice the wattle and comb begin to appear more red than pink as they become more developed and distinct. This is an indicator that the young hen is about ready to start laying. And brown chickens don't necessarily lay brown eggs. 