Keukenhof is a park where more than 7 million flower bulbs are planted every year. Gardens and four pavilions show a fantastic collection of: tulips, hyacinths, daffodils, orchids, roses, carnations, irises, lilies and many other flowers. You will be overwhelmed by a spectacle of colors and perfumes. Unfortunately, the park is only open 8 weeks a year. You can reach Keukenhof within half an hour from The Hague, Haarlem, Leiden, Delft and Amsterdam. However, traffic is problematic around Keukenhof during the opening weeks.
Keukenhof is located near the small town of Lisse, between Amsterdam and The Hague. It is situated in an area called the Dune and Bulb Region (Duin-en Bollenstreek), a region that features coastal dunes and the cultivation of flower bulbs. Keukenhof is open annually from the last week in March to mid-May. The garden was established in 1949 by the then-mayor of Lisse. The idea was to present a flower exhibit where growers from all over the Netherlands and Europe could show off their hybrids -- and help the Dutch export industry (the Netherlands is the world's largest exporter of flowers).
Keukenhof Gardens – Located near Lisse and Amsterdam in the Netherlands. It is considered one of the most popular attractions in the world. The Garden is also known as Garden of Europe. According to Keukenhof Park, about 7,000,000 (seven million) flower blooms annually in the park, which covers an area of 32 hectares. 
Although you will probably be heading for the Keukenhof when visiting Lisse, the town itself has a few things to offer beside that famous park. Lisse and the Keukenhof park are located in Zuid-Holland close to Hillegom and south of Haarlem, southwest of Amsterdam. The Keukenhof [1] is the main reason why foreigners come to Lisse, and well-worth it. It is an elaborate park and floral exhibition, and actually a promotion for the Dutch flower industry. These are the famous tulip gardens surrounded by tulip fields in Netherlands.
April 23, 2011 - 'Keukenhof' in the Netherlands, also known as the Garden of Europe, is the world's largest flower garden for over 50 years. It is filled with tulips, hyacinths, daffodils and other spring bulbs. The garden was established in 1949 by the then-mayor of Lisse. The idea was to present a flower exhibit where growers from all over the Netherlands and Europe could show off their hybrids -- and help the Dutch export industry (the Netherlands is the world's largest exporter of flowers).
How to Get To Keukenhof. Keukenhof is located in Lisse in Holland. The event is an easy day trip from Amsterdam or Leiden. Buses run regularly from both cities or if driving there is plenty of parking at the event. If you prefer to do a tour from Amsterdam, I recommend this one: 1  Keukenhof Gardens and Tulip Fields Tour.
The Keukenhof is situated in the heart of tulip growing territory between Amsterdam and the Hague. It is not far from Leiden (an old university town where the tulip was first introduced to the Netherlands) and the nearest village is Lisse. Keukenhof-showcasing the splendour of tulips. Back to top. 