This is widely regarded as the most common type of schizophrenia. Among individuals with the paranoid-type, they commonly experience delusions and hallucinations in the form of “voices.” The delusions may involve the fact that other people are conspiring against them and or plotting their demise. A type of Schizophrenia in which symptoms that meet Criterion A are present, but the criteria are not met for the Paranoid, Disorganized, or Catatonic Type.
The specific symptoms a person experiences, such as hallucinations, disorganized thinking, or a lack of pleasure in everyday life, differentiate the various types and allow the healthcare provider to make the proper diagnosis. An Introduction to the Types of Schizophrenia. The different types of schizophrenia are based on the specific symptoms a person is experiencing. Since the symptoms of schizophrenia can change over time, it is possible for a person to have more than one type during his or her lifetime. Schizophrenia types include: 1  Paranoid schizophrenia
The most common type of schizophrenia is the paranoid subtype. Paranoid schizophrenia is predominately associated with disturbances with perception. Auditory and visual hallucinations are common, along with the delusional thinking that comes with attempting to comprehend, rationalize, and justify the hallucinations. But what we haven’t specifically mentioned is that there are sub-types of schizophrenia that are usually experienced. Not everyone’s experience matches, and they are classified as a certain type based on the most predominate symptoms being displayed.
Paranoid schizophrenia is the most common type of schizophrenia in most parts of the world. The clinical picture is dominated by relatively stable, often paranoid, delusions, usually accompanied by hallucinations, particularly of the auditory variety, and perceptual disturbances. 
People with the paranoid subtype may appear to lead fairly normal lives by successful management of their disorder. Paranoid schizophrenia is the most common subtype. People diagnosed with the paranoid subtype may not appear odd or unusual and may not readily discuss the symptoms of their illness. The kinds of symptoms that are utilized to make a diagnosis of schizophrenia differ between affected people and may change from one year to the next within the same person as the disease progresses.
The most common type is paranoid schizophrenia, which causes fearful thoughts and hearing threatening voices. Schizophrenia does not involve multiple personalities and is not the same condition as dissociative identity disorder (also called multiple personality disorder or split personality). Schizophrenia is a severe brain disease that interferes with normal brain and mental function—it can trigger hallucinations, delusions, paranoia, and significant lack of motivation. Without treatment, schizophrenia affects the ability to think clearly, manage emotions, and interact appropriately with other people.
Confidence votes 44. schizophrenia is a mental condition characterized by personality disorders among others. there are more than four types but the most common is the 'paranoid schizophrenia' the patient exhibits suspicious trait and does not feel safe. 1 The Mental Health Definition of Paranoid Schizophrenia Paranoid schizophrenia is a mental disorder mainly characterized by hallucinations and delusions.
With this type of schizophrenia, the primary symptoms are delusions or auditory hallucinations. People with paranoid schizophrenia usually do not have thought disorder, disorganized behavior, or affective flattening. An Introduction to the Types of Schizophrenia. The different types of schizophrenia are based on the specific symptoms a person is experiencing. Since the symptoms of schizophrenia can change over time, it is possible for a person to have more than one type during his or her lifetime. Schizophrenia types include: 1  Paranoid schizophrenia