Normal Range of Metabolism. You may not be aware that the (basal) metabolic rate (BMR) associated with a given body weight can vary ± 20%. Like many things in nature metabolic rates fall into a normal bell curve. The middle of the bell curve is the expected or average metabolic rate. 
At rest, your body burns 1,400 to 1,900 kcal (kilograms) a day. (A kilocalorie is the same amount of energy as a calorie, except that we use the term calories when we're talking about food and kilocalories when we're talking about exercise.) This is your resting metabolic rate..
Your resting metabolic rate is approximately one kcal per kilogram of body weight per hour. (To find your weight in kilograms, divide your weight in pounds by 2.2.) If you weigh 132 pounds, or 60 kilograms, you will burn 60 kcal an hour. (A kilocalorie is the same amount of energy as a calorie, except that we use the term calories when we're talking about food and kilocalories when we're talking about exercise.) This is your resting metabolic rate..
What is Resting Metabolic Rate. Your resting metabolic rate is the calories you burn while at rest. If you got up in the morning and went from your bed to the couch and watched TV the entire day, this would be a pretty good estimate of your daily calories. In fact,RMR is likely to be more appropriate for your needs and is the more accurate estimation. If you are looking for an estimate of how many calories you need or burn in a day, we suggest that you use your Resting Metabolic Rate as basic guide.
If like most people you are searching the internet for information on your metabolic rate then you will also see many of the search terms show up for BMR, or Basal Metabolic Rate. This term is so widely used though the BMR and RMR are a little different.. In fact,RMR is likely to be more appropriate for your needs and is the more accurate estimation. If you are looking for an estimate of how many calories you need or burn in a day, we suggest that you use your Resting Metabolic Rate as basic guide.
This calculator estimates your resting metabolic rate (or. ). Your resting metabolic rate is the the amount of calories that your body burns while you are at complete rest (i.e. reclining with muscles relaxed) to keep itself alive and digest food, but nothing else. For this reason, your resting metabolic rate is typically considered to be a more reliable estimation of your calorie burn during rest than basal metabolic rate, because your body is usually digesting some amount of food at any given moment.
Basal metabolic rate (BMR) affects the rate that a person burns calories and ultimately whether you maintain, gain, or lose weight. Your basal metabolic rate accounts for about 60 to 75% of the calories you burn every day. Basal metabolic rate (BMR) is the minimal rate of energy expenditure per unit time by endothermic animals at rest. (McNab, B. K. 1997). On the Utility of Uniformity in the Definition of Basal Rate of Metabolism. Physiol. Zool. Vol.70; Metabolism refers to the processes that the body needs to function.
You can calculate your resting metabolic rate using our rmr calculator The calculator uses the resting metabolic rate formula in order to give you an estimate of your daily calories. The resting metabolic rate calculator is an ideal tool to help plan your calorie levels in order to lose weight. In fact,RMR is likely to be more appropriate for your needs and is the more accurate estimation. If you are looking for an estimate of how many calories you need or burn in a day, we suggest that you use your Resting Metabolic Rate as basic guide.
Resting Metabolic Rate (RMR) is a form of metabolism measurement that measures the amount of energy used by the bodies of animals in a relaxed, but not post-absorptive, state. RMR measurements require the animals be in a thermal neutral zone (or a preferred temperature range for bradymetabolic animals) and relaxed. 