Answers. Best Answer: Lieu means instead. You want to have two weeks off using annual leave INSTEAD of working those two weeks...or, in lieu of those two weeks. They don't want you to, they want you to work your full notice period
In employment law, payment in lieu of notice or PILON is a payment made to an employee, by the employer, for a notice period that they have been told, by the employer, that they do not have to work. If there is a pay in lieu of notice clause in the employee's contract, the amount the employee will get will normally be set out there.
In-lieu-of-notice pay is wages. A payment should not be viewed as in lieu of notice unless the employer has a collective bargaining agreement, a written plan or a clearly established policy that employees are entitled to advance notice in the event of a layoff, or are entitled to payment in the event no notice if given. The fact that the words 'severance' are used is not controlling.. A payment is not to be considered as in-lieu-of-notice pay, when the payment was contingent upon the recommendation of his supervisor and approval of the manager. For example, an employer elects to terminate one of his employees
So, for instance, if you have a 3 months’ notice period in your employment contract, your employer would pay you three months salary in lieu of notice. If you have a two month notice period in your contract of employment, your employer will pay you two months salary in lieu of notice. The words “instead of” can be used rather than “in lieu of”. Payment in lieu of notice means you would be paid instead of working out the notice period, which you are normally required to give.
Hi Mara! We think you mean “payment in lieu of notice.” The short answer is no. The physician is legally required to pay his employees for all hours worked. Sometimes an employer will offer 2 weeks payment instead of giving an employee two weeks notice, but there is no law that requires it. It usually applies when an employee is being terminated (or fired), not when the employee quits. “In lieu of” simply means instead of. Traditionally, in the past, employers gave workers two weeks notice when they were being laid off or fired.
Best Answer: In lieu means instead of, so if they pay you money in lieu of notice, they are paying you the money you would have earned had you worked your notice, and they no longer expect you to work out that notice. You are then free from their employment. 
It is considered responsible for an employee to give two weeks notice when quitting, but it is very uncommon for employers to give two weeks notice when firing an employee. Occasionally today when an employee gives two weeks notice, the employer will offer payment in lieu of notice. This means that the employee is not required to work the final two weeks, but is paid for them. This is very common when the employee is a salesperson. It usually applies when an employee is being terminated (or fired), not when the employee quits. “In lieu of” simply means instead of. Traditionally, in the past, employers gave workers two weeks notice when they were being laid off or fired.
PILON can either be set out in the contract as an option for the employer or it may simply be paid to cover any potential damages for breach of contract. If there is a pay in lieu of notice clause in the employee's contract, the amount the employee will get will normally be set out there. If not, it is up to the employee to agree to an amoun