Definition of CASBAH. 1. : a North African castle or fortress. 2. : the native section of a North African city. 
casbah. Casbah or Kasbah-Hebrew. Kasbah: Old market-place roofed by arches in an Arab town. The song is refering to political terms of two cultures fighting against each other-the casbah is the place that was rocked by these cultures and their 'clash' with each other along with their bombs. Read the actual lyrics and you will see the political nature of it. The shareef don't like it, Rocking the casbah
Report Abuse. The Casbah (French) or more correctly Qasbah (from Arabic qasbah, قصبة, 'citadel') is specifically the citadel of Algiers and the traditional quarter clustered round it. More generally, kasbah denotes the walled citadel of many North African cities and towns. · just now. Report Abuse. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search The Casbah (French) or as transliterated from Arabic Qasbah (from qasbah, قصبة, 'citadel') is specifically the citadel of Algiers and the traditional quarter clustered round it.
Rock the Casbah  is a song by the English punk rock band The Clash, released in 1982. The king orders jet fighters to bomb any people in violation of the ban. The pilots ignored the orders, and instead played rock music on their cockpit radios. It was inspired by the ban on Western music in Iran after the 1979 Islamic Revolution.
A kasbah, or in older English casbah, and qasbah or qassabah in India, is a type of medina, Islamic city, or fortress (citadel). It was a place for the local leader to live and a defense when a city was under attack. A kasbah has high walls, usually without windows. Sometimes, they were built on hilltops so that they could be more easily defended.
Best Answer: The Casbah (French) or as transliterated from Arabic Qasbah (from qasbah, قصبة, 'citadel') is specifically the citadel of Algiers and the traditional quarter clustered round it. More generally, kasbah denotes the walled citadel of many North African cities and towns. 
Origin [edit]. The song gives a fabulist account of a ban on rock music by the king being defied by the population, who proceed to rock the casbah .. The king orders jet fighters to bomb any people in violation of the ban. The pilots ignored the orders, and instead played rock music on their cockpit radios. It was inspired by the ban on Western music in Iran after the 1979 Islamic Revolution.
Best Answer: Casbah From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search The Casbah (French) or as transliterated from Arabic Qasbah (from qasbah, قصبة, 'citadel') is specifically the citadel of Algiers and the traditional quarter clustered round it. · just now. Report Abuse. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search The Casbah (French) or as transliterated from Arabic Qasbah (from qasbah, قصبة, 'citadel') is specifically the citadel of Algiers and the traditional quarter clustered round it.
The Casbah (French) or more correctly Qasbah (from Arabic qasbah, قصبة, 'citadel') is specifically the citadel of Algiers and the traditional quarter clustered round it. · just now. Report Abuse. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search The Casbah (French) or as transliterated from Arabic Qasbah (from qasbah, قصبة, 'citadel') is specifically the citadel of Algiers and the traditional quarter clustered round it.