And he buried him in a valley in the land of Moab, over against Bethpeor: but no man knoweth of his sepulchre unto this day. There are several traditions that located the tomb of Moses to several sites on the eastern side of the Jordan river. Nebi Musa is an exception, since it is located on the western side.
According to the final chapter of the Book of Deuteronomy, Moses ascended Mount Nebo to view the Land of Israel, that he was commanded by God to not enter, and to die; he was buried in an unknown valley location in Moab (Deuteronomy 34).
And he buried him in a valley in the land of Moab, over against Bethpeor, but no one knows of his sepulchre unto this day. King James 2000 Bible. And he buried him in a valley in the land of Moab, opposite Beth-peor: but no man knows of his grav
King James Bible. And he buried him in a valley in the land of Moab, over against Bethpeor: but no man knoweth of his sepulchre unto this day. Holman Christian Standard Bible. He buried him in the valley in the land of Moab facing Beth-peor, and no one to this day knows where his grave is.
- So Moses the servant of the LORD died there in the land of Moab, according to the word of the LORD. Deuteronomy 34:6And he buried him in a valley in the land of Moab, over against Bethpeor: but no man knoweth of his sepulchre unto this day. See All... - And he buried him in a valley in the land of Moab, over against Bethpeor: but no man knoweth of his sepulchre unto this day. Jude 1:9Yet Michael the archangel, when contending with the devil he disputed about the body of Moses, durst not bring against him a railing accusation, but said, The Lord rebuke thee.
God buried Moses in a secret place:   Deuteronomy 34:5-6 (KJV) 5So Moses the servant of the LORD died there in the land of Moab, according to the word of the LORD. 6And … he buried him in a valley in the land of Moab, over against Bethpeor: but no man knoweth of his sepulchre unto this day. 4 people found this useful.
And Moses the servant of the Lord died there in Moab, as the Lord had said. He buried him in Moab, in the valley opposite Beth Peor, but to this day no one knows where his grave is. Moses was a hundred and twenty years old when he died, yet his eyes were not weak nor his strength gone.