Two solid organs, the liver and the pancreas, produce digestive juices that reach the intestine through small tubes. In addition, parts of other organ systems (for instance, nerves and blood vessels) play a major role in the digestive system. When we eat things like bread, meat, and vegetables, they are not in a form the body can use as nourishment.
The primary function of the digestive system is to break down the food we eat into smaller parts so the body can use them to build and nourish cells and provide energy. The digestive system is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus. Inside this tube is a lining called the mucosa. In the mouth, stomach, and small intestine, the mucosa contains tiny glands that produce juices to help digest food. In addition, parts of other organ systems (for instance, nerves and blood vessels) play a major role in the digestive system. When we eat things like bread, meat, and vegetables, they are not in a form the body can use as nourishment.
Whatever material is left goes into the large intestine. The function of the large intestine, which is about 5 feet long (1.5 meters), is primarily for storage and fermentation of indigestible matter. Even the smell of food can generate saliva, which is secreted by the salivary glands in the mouth, contains an enzyme, salivary amylase, which breaks down starch. Teeth, which are part of the skeletal system, play a key role in digestion. In carnivores, teeth are designed for killing and breaking down meat.
Function of the Digestive System. The digestive system is a series of hollow organs joined in a long tube from the mouth to the anus. The main function of the digestive system is to break down the food we eat into smaller parts so the body can use them for energy and cell nourishment. In addition, parts of other organ systems (for instance, nerves and blood vessels) play a major role in the digestive system. When we eat things like bread, meat, and vegetables, they are not in a form the body can use as
The human digestive system is a series of organs that converts food into essential nutrients that are absorbed into the body and eliminates unused waste material. It is essential to good health because if the digestive system shuts down, the body cannot be nourished or rid itself of waste. Even the smell of food can generate saliva, which is secreted by the salivary glands in the mouth, contains an enzyme, salivary amylase, which breaks down starch. Teeth, which are part of the skeletal system, play a key role in digestion. In carnivores, teeth are designed for killing and breaking down meat.
The gastrointestinal (GI) tract is sometimes referred to as the digestive tract, or the alimentary canal. This is the system of organs in the human body that takes in food, digests it to extract energy and nutrients, and expels the remaining waste. The major functions of the GI tract are digestion and excretion.
The liver has multiple functions, but its main function within the digestive system is to process the nutrients absorbed from the small intestine. Bile from the liver secreted into the small intestine also plays an important role in digesting fat. In addition, the liver is the body’s chemical factory.. The pancreas secretes digestive enzymes into the duodenum, the first segment of the small intestine. These enzymes break down protein, fats, and carbohydrates. The pancreas also makes insulin, secreting it directly into the bloodstream. Insulin is the chief hormone for metabolizing sugar.
Many symptoms can signal problems with the GI tract, including: abdominal pain, blood in the stool, bloating, constipation, diarrhea, heartburn, incontinence, nausea and vomiting and difficulty swallowing, according to the NIH. Among the most widely known diseases of the digestive system is colon cancer. Even the smell of food can generate saliva, which is secreted by the salivary glands in the mouth, contains an enzyme, salivary amylase, which breaks down starch. Teeth, which are part of the skeletal system, play a key role in digestion. In carnivores, teeth are designed for killing and breaking down meat.
The gastrointestinal (GI) system–also known as the digestive system–is a highly organized system of organs and components. These work together intricately to break food down into sugars, amino acids, fatty acids, and other simple molecules that are absorbed into the bloodstream. 
The digestive system is a group of organs working together to convert food into energy and basic nutrients to feed the entire body. Food passes through a long tube inside the body known as the alimentary canal or the gastrointestinal tract (GI tract). The first function of the digestive system is ingestion, or the intake of food. The mouth is responsible for this function, as it is the orifice through which all food enters the body. The mouth and stomach are also responsible for the storage of food as it is waiting to be digested.