Dove. Unilever, a typical house of brands, is the global leader in the personal care market. Each brand in Unilever’s personal care business is precisely targeted to a specific group of consumers with a distinct value proposition to minimize cannibalization. Dove is Unilever’s largest personal care brand. In 1957, Dove launched a revolutionized beauty bar that was less drying to the skin. This promise has remained at the heart of the brand and was used to create the tagline ' Only Dove contains one quarter moisturizing cream '
And it marked the beginning of Dove's quest to understand how women thought about beauty -- a conversation that would eventually become the Dove Campaign For Real Beauty. Ten years after the exhibition opened, the Campaign For Real Beauty is one of modern marketing's most talked-about success stories. THE START OF SOMETHING. In the early 2000s, Dove executives began looking for a way to revive a brand that was being overshadowed by other companies. Their PR agency, Edelman, conducted a study of more than 3,000 women in 10 countries in order to learn about women's priorities and interests.
Dove is a personal care brand owned by Unilever originating in the United Kingdom. Dove products are manufactured in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Germany, India, Indonesia, Israel, Ireland, Mexico, Netherlands, Pakistan, Philippines, South Africa, Thailand, Turkey and United States. The products are sold in more than 80 countries and are offered for both women and men. Dove have created a number of largely online-only short films, including Daughters (which was also broadcast during the Super Bowl XL), Evolution (which won two awards at the Cannes Lions International Advertising Festival), Onslaught, Amy.
According to Advertising Age/Kantar figures, Dove has been Unilever's highest-spending brand in the US for several years, with measured media expenditure in 2013 of $195m, roughly three times any other group brand, and representing almost a quarter of the group's total measured ad spend. The brand competes fiercely with Procter & Gamble's Olay, Beiersdorf 's Nivea and Johnson & Johnson's Neutrogena, all of which have a similarly broad product range. A new line of Dove for Men products was launched in 2010.
From the beginning Dove has always celebrated real women at the heart of everything the brand does and believes. Real beauty embraces diversity-no woman is or should feel excluded from the world of beauty that the brand represents. Real women are the brand’s true inspiration. The Dove brand started its life in 1957 in the US, with the revolutionary new beauty cleansing Bar.
Dove has grown from a US-only soap bar into one of Unilever 's biggest global brands. It is now the world's #1 personal cleansing product, and the #3 business in the Anglo-Dutch company's portfolio behind Knorr and Lipton. The brand competes fiercely with Procter & Gamble's Olay, Beiersdorf 's Nivea and Johnson & Johnson's Neutrogena, all of which have a similarly broad product range. A new line of Dove for Men products was launched in 2010.
Analysis. Dove is Unilever's biggest personal care brand, and certainly one of the group's most high profile brands in recent years as the result of a clever marketing campaign that has consistently generated headlines and accolades since 2004. The brand competes fiercely with Procter & Gamble's Olay, Beiersdorf 's Nivea and Johnson & Johnson's Neutrogena, all of which have a similarly broad product range. A new line of Dove for Men products was launched in 2010.
The intangible sum of a product's attributes: its name, packaging, and price, its history, its reputation, and the way it's advertised. A brand is a product, service, or concept that is publicly distinguished from other products, services, or concepts so that it can be easily communicated and usually marketed. A brand name is the name of the distinctive product, service, or concept. Branding is the process of creating and disseminating the brand name. 
Dove. Share. Dove believes that beauty-feeling and looking your personal best-is the result of proper care. Dove always aims to deliver products which tangibly improve the condition of skin or hair and give a pleasurable experience of care, because when you look and feel beautiful, it makes you feel happier. The Dove brand started its life in 1957 in the US, with the revolutionary new beauty cleansing Bar.