#SIAD. February is our busiest month; it’s the month when Wedge, Rachel and myself, together with our team of volunteers, work tirelessly towards SIAD (self-injury awarenes day on 1st March). The aim, of course, being to ‘raise awareness about self-injury’
And surely not a door-to-door canvassing campaign like politicians do, because you don’t have an army of volunteers. Being told to simply “raise awareness” is frustrating because it is a very broad and largely undefined goal. There are, in fact, many things you can do — on a budget — to get the job done. And I am leading a free webinar on September 3rd, 1:00- 2:00 pm Eastern, to show you how you can please the higher ups without making yourself crazy or breaking your budget. Webinar Take-Aways.
This incident is just one example of the nebulous phenomenon of “raising awareness” for diseases. Days, weeks, months are dedicated to the awareness of different health conditions, often without a clear definition of what “awareness” means, or what, exactly, is supposed to come of it. So in addition to awareness-raising, to try to get people to do something, Autism Speaks fundraises and asks people to sign petitions. “[When we try] to get corporate sponsors, I always tell people here, you can’t just go pitch this as a moral imperative,” Feld says. “There are a lot of moral imperatives.
— Anne Forer. Consciousness raising (also called awareness raising) is a form of activism, popularized by United States feminists in the late 1960s. It often takes the form of a group of people attempting to focus the attention of a wider group of people on some cause or condition. The term awareness raising is used in the Yogyakarta Principles against discriminatory attitudes and LGBT stereotypes, as well as the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities to combat stereotypes, prejudices, and harmful practices toward people with disabilities.
However, in practice, raising awareness is often combined with other activities, such as fundraising, membership drives, or advocacy, in order to harness and/or sustain the motivation of new supporters, which may be at its highest just after they have learned and digested the new information. The term awareness raising is used in the Yogyakarta Principles against discriminatory attitudes and LGBT stereotypes, as well as the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities to combat stereotypes, prejudices, and harmful practices toward people with disabilities.
Awareness-Raising Awareness-raising is understood to be a constructive and potentiallycatalytic force for change. To raise public awareness of a topic orissue is to inform a community's attitudes, behaviours and beliefswith the intention of influencing them positively in the achievementof a defined purpose or goal. 
DEFINITION of 'Brand Awareness'. The likelihood that consumers recognize the existence and availability of a company's product or service. Creating brand awareness is one of the key steps in promoting a product. Next Up
Awareness is the ability to perceive, to feel, or to be conscious of events, objects, thoughts, emotions, or sensory patterns. In this level of consciousness, sense data can be confirmed by an observer without necessarily implying understanding. More broadly, it is the state or quality of being aware of something. 