1 Scooby-Dee: Scooby and his cousin Scooby-Dum compete for the affections of canine movie star Scooby-Dee, who is also their cousin. ( 2 The Scooby-Doo Show: The Chiller Diller Movie Thriller). 3  Sled dog: Scooby falls in love with a sled dog. 1 Like Scooby, she is capable of speech but only shows so as she's about to leave, and unlike Scooby, she speaks like a normal human. ( 2 Scooby-Doo And The Alien Invaders). 3  Sandy Duncan: Scooby fell for Sandy Duncan at a studio, much to Shaggy's annoyance.
In addition to eight new episodes of Scooby-Doo and reruns of the 1969 show, Scooby-Doo also appeared during the All-Star block's Laff-a-Lympics series, which featured 45 Hanna-Barbera characters competing in Battle of the Network Stars-esque parodies of Olympic sporting events. 1 Fred Jones: Frank Welker has always performed the voice of the animated versions of Fred since 1969, with the exception of the 1988–91 ABC series A Pup Named Scooby-Doo, where Carl Steven performed the voice of preteen Fred.
1 Frumkin returned to voice Velma on a recurring basis for The New Scooby-Doo Mysteries in 1984, and Christina Lange voiced pre-teen Velma in A Pup Named Scooby-Doo. 2  B. J. Ward voiced Velma from 1997 to 2001, with Mindy Cohn assuming the role in 2002. 1 Fred Jones: Frank Welker has always performed the voice of the animated versions of Fred since 1969, with the exception of the 1988–91 ABC series A Pup Named Scooby-Doo, where Carl Steven performed the voice of preteen Fred.
The Scooby Store. Scooby doo toys, games, movies, and much more. This cute Scooby Doo Smiling twin sheet set has a blue fitted sheet, white flat sheet with small Scooby’s and a reversible pillowcase. A cotton/polyester blend. This desk clock is perfect for a home, business, or for as a gift for any Scooby fan. Measuring 3.75″ in diameter, it has a black metal frame and glass face. These Scooby Doo charms are certain to make any pair of crocs or similar shoes a whole lot more fun.
Daphne Blake 's family owns an extravagant mansion in Coolsville. Scooby-Doo 's doghouse (when he was a puppy) was located in the back garden of the Rogers home. The inside of the doghouse is much larger than it appears from the outside and has been shown to include a indoor pool, tennis court and many other luxuries such as a humongous kitchen. Fred, Scooby and Shaggy's home. When the gang grew up they split into two houses for the boys and the girls. Here they make stops when they come back to Coolsville. The two houses are close together since both are on the same letter carrier route.
CartoonNetworkShop.com is operated under a license from Cartoon Network by Bolder Road LLC, which is solely responsible for the site's content and all aspects of your purchase. © 2015 All Rights Reserved. The Mystery Inc gang unite on this Scooby-Doo seatbelt belt featuring Fred, Velma, Daphne, Scooby, and Shaggy.
Mystery Incorporated, aired on Cartoon Network from 2010 to 2013, and, Be Cool, Scooby-Doo! , debuted on Cartoon Network in 2015. Repeats of the various Scooby-Doo series are broadcast frequently on Cartoon Network and Boomerang in the United States as well as other countries. 1 Fred Jones: Frank Welker has always performed the voice of the animated versions of Fred since 1969, with the exception of the 1988–91 ABC series A Pup Named Scooby-Doo, where Carl Steven performed the voice of preteen Fred.
The original series, Scooby-Doo, Where Are You! , was created for Hanna-Barbera Productions by writers Joe Ruby and Ken Spears in 1969. 1 Fred Jones: Frank Welker has always performed the voice of the animated versions of Fred since 1969, with the exception of the 1988–91 ABC series A Pup Named Scooby-Doo, where Carl Steven performed the voice of preteen Fred.
Scooby-Doo's doghouse. Scooby-Doo 's doghouse (when he was a puppy) was located in the back garden of the Rogers home. The inside of the doghouse is much larger than it appears from the outside and has been shown to include a indoor pool, tennis court and many other luxuries such as a humongous kitchen. Fred, Scooby and Shaggy's home. When the gang grew up they split into two houses for the boys and the girls. Here they make stops when they come back to Coolsville. The two houses are close together since both are on the same letter carrier route.