Sirolimus, also called rapamycin, is a drug that is used to suppress the immune system in people who have had kidney transplants. It is given in combination with other drugs to prevent rejection of transplanted kidneys. This test measures the amount of sirolimus in the blood. 
The main use of sirolimus is in patients with a kidney transplant. It may be chosen because other immune suppressing drugs are causing side effects, or the patient is developing cancers associated with lowered immunity (including skin cancers). The mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) is a complex of protein kinases that promote cellular survival, cellular growth and catabolic processes. The mTOR pathway is inhibited by sirolimus/rapamycin. The mTOR pathway is also dysregulated in diabetes, obesity, some inflammatory skin diseases and certain cancers.
Sirolimus (trade name Rapamune™) is a selective immune suppressing drug. It is most commonly used in patients that have a transplanted kidney to prevent their body rejecting the new organ. The mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) is a complex of protein kinases that promote cellular survival, cellular growth and catabolic processes. The mTOR pathway is inhibited by sirolimus/rapamycin. The mTOR pathway is also dysregulated in diabetes, obesity, some inflammatory skin diseases and certain cancers.
Abstract. Mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) is a protein kinase that controls cell growth, proliferation, and survival. mTOR signaling is often upregulated in cancer and there is great interest in developing drugs that target this enzyme.
Unlike the similarly named tacrolimus, sirolimus is not a calcineurin inhibitor, but it has a similar suppressive effect on the immune system. Sirolimus inhibits IL-2 and other cytokines receptor-dependent signal transduction mechanisms, via action on mTOR, and thereby blocks activation of T and B cells. 
The mechanistic target of rapamycin, also known as mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) or FK506-binding protein 12-rapamycin-associated protein 1 (FRAP1), is a protein that in humans is encoded by the MTOR gene. Discovery [edit]. MTOR was first named as the mammalian target of rapamycin. Rapamycin was discovered in a soil sample from Easter Island, known locally as Rapa Nui, in the 1970s.