Why EIFS, DRYVIT, STUCCO Can Be A Problem? Homes clad with EIFS (Exterior Insulation and Finish Systems) a.k.a. synthetic stucco have a very strong tendency to retain moisture between the sheathing of the home and the finish system.
Dryvit: What is Stucco/EIFS. Transcript: We all want to make our environment cleaner, and healthier. There is an extraordinary exterior wall system that has a tiny environmental foot print, with a huge economic benefit. Outsulation system from Dryvit – as green as it gets. Stucco is typically what people in the Toronto area use when they're looking for EIFS (Exterior Insulation Finish Systems, or synthetic stucco). We use the two terms interchangeably.
Dryvit Systems, Inc. is the original Exterior Insulation and Finish Systems (EIFS) manufacturer in the. and the company that spawned the highly-successful EIFS industry in. beginning in 1969. 
A historic brick building in Germany covered with EIFS on the right side. Exterior insulation and finishing system (EIFS) is a general class of non-load bearing building cladding systems that provides exterior walls with an insulated, water-resistant, finished surface in an integrated composite material system. 
The Dryvit System. Dryvit is one of the largest EIFS manufacturers in the world and they did an excellent job of marketing the EIFS product. In fact they did such a good job that the entire industry was know as Dryvit until recent years. Dryvit did much like Rollerblade® did with inline skates. We now, for the most part, refer to the industry as the EIFS industry, and there are a few manufacturers of the EIFS product, Dryvit being one of them. Each manufacturer of EIFS has there own terminology of the products, so it is a good idea to familiarize yourself with the basic Dryvit lingo.
Identification. Dryvit is a home wall exterior solution, specifically a synthetic version of cement siding. Dryvit siding provides insulation and offers homeowners several styles. Contractors can make the Dryvit into any shape because of the flexible foam boards. The Dryvit siding is manufactured by Dryvit Systems, a private company that specializes in insulation materials located in the United States since 1969. Its product covers one out of every 11 buildings.
According to Dryvit Systems Inc.,outsulation is an insulating finishing system used as cladding for a building's exterior. The company states that scientists report insulation is most effective when installed on the outside, rather than the inside of a structure. Identification. There are several options when fashioning the exterior of a home or business. Stucco has been used in building construction since 1824 and a newer material called Dryvit since 1969. Traditional stucco may be used alone, or Dryvit may be added as an external insulation finishing system. Some homeowners choose to add Dryvit, based on the manufacturer's claim that it provides increased insulation and protection for the
Dryvit is a brand name for a synthetic stucco product which is generically referred to as EIFS (Exterior Insulation and Finish Systems). Homes made of this material look like traditional stucco homes, but they are not. 
Dakota Wall Systems, Inc. has been a proud distributor of Dryvit Systems since we opened our doors in 1980. Dakota Wall Systems, Inc. carries many of Dryvit’s systems and can help with everything from cement stucco systems to the finest in moisture drainage EIF Systems.