Kiln-Dried Lumber. Kiln-Dried lumber has a much lower moisture content than green lumber. In the case of kiln dried lumber, the wood is dried in giant kilns with carefully controlled temperature and humidity levels. The goal is to get the boards to dry quickly and evenly, and to prevent warping that could render the wood unusable. Lumber Grade Stamps. Kiln-dried lumber will be stamped with the mark “KD” or “SDRY”. If the lumber is imported, it will also be heat-treated to kill any pests. Imported wood is marked “KD-HT” to indicate that it is dried and heat treated.
Wood drying (also seasoning lumber or wood seasoning) reduces the moisture content of wood before its use. When the drying is done in a kiln, the product is known as kiln-dried timber or lumber, whereas air dying is the more traditional method. 1 Wood burning: when wood is burned, it is usually best to dry it first. 2  Damage from shrinkage is not a problem here, and the drying may proceed more rapidly than in the case of drying for woodworking purposes. 3  Moisture affects the burning process, with unburnt hydrocarbons going up the chimney.
Kiln dried lumber is a standard in the lumber industry because dried lumber is generally prepared for manufacture into a finished product. As most valuable lumber is used within a enclosed environment-such as a home or place of business-the lumber must be suitably dried to prevent movement in service. 
Kiln dried lumber is lumber that has been heated in a kiln so that it has a low moisture content. View slideshow of images above. For some applications, lumber that has been kiln dried can be used just as it is. In other instances, it may be necessary for the lumber to acclimate for one to two weeks, and the wood may pick up some additional moisture during this time.
A kiln is a thermally insulated chamber, a type of oven, that produces temperatures sufficient to complete some process, such as hardening, drying, or chemical changes. Various industries and trades use kilns to harden objects made from clay into pottery, tiles and bricks. 
Wood is air-dried or dried in a purpose built oven (kiln). Usually the wood is sawed before drying, but sometimes the log is dried whole. Case hardening describes lumber or timber that has been dried too rapidly. Wood initially dries from the shell (surface), shrinking the shell and putting the core under compression. 1 Wood burning: when wood is burned, it is usually best to dry it first. 2  Damage from shrinkage is not a problem here, and the drying may proceed more rapidly than in the case of drying for woodworking purposes. 3  Moisture affects the burning process, with unburnt hydrocarbons going up the chimney.
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. Kiln dried lumber is lumber that has been heated in a kiln so that it has a low moisture content. When the drying process is complete, the lumber usually has a moisture content of between 6% and 8%, making it significantly dryer than green lumber or air dried lumber. Many hardware stores and lumber companies stock such lumber for their clients, and this type of wood is ideal for a wide range of woodworking tasks. For some applications, lumber that has been kiln dried can be used just as it is. In other instances, it may be necessary for the lumber to acclimate for one to two weeks, and the wood may pick up some additional moisture during this time.
Wood in “green” condition must be kiln-dried in order to be used as construction grade lumber for building purposes, as an example. Lumber production is a complex process in which green timber is sawn, dried and processed. When the relative humidity (RH) in the air rises, wood absorbs moisture from the air; when the RH falls, wood releases moisture into the air. This occurs naturally, and it occurs throughout a wood product’s life span even after it has been harvested and kiln-dried for human use.