Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: it started off really..as an accident! Dr. Albert Hofmann (born January 11, 1906) is a prominent Swiss scientist and best known as the father of LSD. He was born in Baden, Switzerland, and studied chemistry at the University of Zuerich. zürich
Swiss scientist who invented LSD and had first ever 'bad trip' dies at 102. By ALEXANDRA WILLIAMS. Last updated at 21:14 30 April 2008. Pandora's box: Albert Hofmann, who first synthesised the psychedelic drug LSD. The scientist who discovered the psychedelic drug LSD has died aged 102. Albert Hofmann-the first person to experience an acid trip-had a heart attack at his home near Basel on Tuesday. Mr Hofmann had been working as a chemist studying ergot fungus when he stumbled on lysergic acid diethylamide in 1943. 
A+E Networks. In Basel, Switzerland, Albert Hoffman, a Swiss chemist working at the Sandoz pharmaceutical research laboratory, accidentally consumes LSD-25, a synthetic drug he had created in 1938 as part of his research into the medicinal value of lysergic acid compounds. 
Albert Hofmann, the Swiss scientist who invented LSD, asked Apple's founder in 2007 how he enjoyed his problem child.. The Fix offers a rare look. Albert Hofmann was a scientist working for Sandoz chemicals in Basel in 1938 when he first synthesized lysergic acid diethylamide, AKA LSD. That same year, he also became the first person to ingest acid and experience its peculiar psychedelic effects.
Albert Hofmann, 102, Invented LSD. By Staff Reporter of the Sun | April 30, 2008. http://www.nysun.com/obituaries/albert-hofmann-102-invented-lsd/75591/. Albert Hofmann, the Swiss chemist who invented LSD, the first synthesized psychedelic drug, died at home yesterday in Basel, Switzerland. He was 102
Dr. Albert Hofmann, the discoverer of the drug Lysergic Acid Diethlyamide, or LSD, in 1976. He was nearly as famous for having taken the world's first acid trip. http://www.nysun.com/obituaries/albert-hofmann-102-invented-lsd/75591/. Albert Hofmann, the Swiss chemist who invented LSD, the first synthesized psychedelic drug, died at home yesterday in Basel, Switzerland.
Albert Hofmann, a Swiss scientist invented the LSD. He accidentally tested it on himself on April 19, 1943, also known as the Bicycle day, when he absorbed a small amount of the compound Lysergic Acid Diethylamide into his skin. 
Not to be confused with Abbie Hoffman. Albert Hofmann (January 11, 1906 – April 29, 2008) was a Swiss scientist known best for being the first person to synthesize, ingest, and learn of the psychedelic effects of lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD). Hofmann was born in Baden, Switzerland, the first of four children to factory toolmaker Adolf Hofmann and his wife Elisabeth (born Elisabeth Schenk). Owing to his father's low income, Albert's godfather paid for his education.
The psychedelic drug (or entheogen) lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) was first synthesized on November 16, 1938 by the Swiss chemist Albert Hofmann in the Sandoz (now Novartis) laboratories in Basel, Switzerland. Albert Hofmann, born in Switzerland, joined the pharmaceutical-chemical department of Sandoz Laboratories, located in Basel as a co-worker with professor Arthur Stoll, founder and director of the pharmaceutical department.