Retention is also commonly called retainage and is a term referring to the percentage of payment held back from a construction contract. This is a financial term and the owners of a building, or those who are paying for its work to be done, take the lead in drawing up and enforcing the retention plan. Levels of Retention. There are two levels of retention. The first level of retention deals with the owner of a building under construction. That building's owner may establish a retention plan regarding his or her contractors and completion of the contract.
Retention is security held by a procuring contractor to guarantee the performance of a supplying contractor and in particular to safeguard against defects in the event that the supplying contractor fails to satisfactorily rectify them. Retention applies to both headcontractors (both a procuring contractor and a supplying contractor) and subcontractors (generally a supplying contractor only) and is usually set at 5% of the value of the works.
RE: retention in progress billing in a construction. Retention or retainage in construction is a common method of protecting the owner from paying for incomplete processes or materials. It is a progressively collected amount that ultimately accumulates to an agreed amount of money, usually 10% of the construction cost. RE: retention in progress billing in a construction. Retention is an amount of money (usually 10% until half the project is billed, and nothing after if the contractor is behaving) held back from each payment.
Purpose of Retention. Retention provides owners with knowledge that the project a contractor has signed must be completed if the contractor is to be paid for his or her work in its entirety. A retention plan often calls for the withholding of 5 percent to 10 percent of payment until the work is finished as promised. Levels of Retention. There are two levels of retention. The first level of retention deals with the owner of a building under construction. That building's owner may establish a retention plan regarding his or her contractors and completion of the contract.
Retention is money held by the Employer/Client as a safeguard against defects which may subsequently develop and which the Contractor may fail to remedy. Retention is usually set at either 5% of the value of the works or 3% in the case of some (usually larger) contracts. This percentage is then deducted from all the interim payments made to the main contractor who then deducts it from all his sub-contractors.
[edit] Introduction. Retention is a percentage (often 5%) of the amount certified as due to the contractor on an interim certificate, that is deducted from the amount due and retained by the client. The purpose of retention is to ensure that the contractor properly completes the activities required of them under the contract. Retention can also be applied to nominated sub-contractors, and the main contractor may also apply retention to domestic sub-contractors. A possible alternative to retention is a retention bond, where the client agrees to pay the amounts which would otherwise have been held as retention, but instead a bond is provided to secure the amount that would have been retained.
Retention money held by head contractors for projects valued over $20 million must be held in a trust account with an authorised deposit taking institution (ADI). This is required under the amended Building and Construction Industry Security of Payment Regulation 2008. 
Definitions (2). 1. A percentage, usually 10%, withheld from a periodic payment to a contractor, in accordance with the owner-contractor agreement, for work completed. The retention is held until all terms of the contract have been fulfilled. 2
Retention, sometimes called retainage, refers to the amount of payment withheld from a contractor's contract. (article continues below). On a construction job, you will receive invoices each month from architects, engineers, and your general contractor. The contractor should show the amount completed, and then request payment for only 90-95% of that amount. The money held back is the retention, typically 5-10% of the total contract price. There are often two levels of retention on a project. The owner, you, will withhold retention from the general contractor. The general contractor, in turn, withholds retention from each of his subcontractors