Ecosystem. A functional system that includes an ecological community of organisms together with the physical environment, interacting as a unit. Ecosystems are characterized by flow of energy through food webs, production and degradation of organic matter, and transformation and cycling of nutrient elements. ecosystem. see ecology ecology,study of the relationships of organisms to their physical environment and to one another. The study of an individual organism or a single species is termed autecology; the study of groups of organisms is called synecology......
Full Definition of ECOSYSTEM. : the complex of a community of organisms and its environment functioning as an ecological unit. See ecosystem defined for English-language learners. See ecosystem defined for kids. 
noun. This coral reef is an example of an ecosystem. This coral reef is an example of an ecosystem. The definition of an ecosystem is a group of plants, animals and bacteria that work together to remain healthy. An example of an ecosystem is a coral reef.
ecosystem. the fundamental unit in ecology, comprising the living organisms and the nonliving elements interacting in a certain defined area. In more sophisticated terms, a biotic community living in its biotope. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter. 
Ecosystem. a natural complex (biologically integral system) formed by living organisms (biocenosis) and their environment (abiotic, such as the atmosphere, or biotic, such as the soil and bodies of water), which are interrelated by the exchange of matter and energy. ecosystem. see ecology ecology,study of the relationships of organisms to their physical environment and to one another. The study of an individual organism or a single species is termed autecology; the study of groups of organisms is called synecology......
forest ecosystem. (ecology). The entire assemblage of forest organisms (trees, shrubs, herbs, bacteria, fungi, and animals, including people) together with their environmental substrate (the surrounding air, soil, water, organic debris, and rocks), interacting inside a defined boundary. Forest ecosystem. The entire assemblage of
Ecosystem. Definition. noun, plural: ecosystems. A system that includes all living organisms (biotic factors) in an area as well as its physical environment (abiotic factors) functioning together as a unit. Supplement. An ecosystem is made up of plants, animals, microorganisms, soil, rocks, minerals, water sources and the local atmosphere interacting with one another
Ecosystem. A natural unit consisting of all plants, animals, and microorganisms functioning in an area, along with the nonliving factors of the built environment. Factors that affect an ecosystem are temperature, light, moisture, and air currents. ecosystem. see ecology ecology,study of the relationships of organisms to their physical environment and to one another. The study of an individual organism or a single species is termed autecology; the study of groups of organisms is called synecology......
Noun. 1. ecosystem-a system formed by the interaction of a community of organisms with their physical environment. system, scheme-a group of independent but interrelated elements comprising a unified whole; a vast system of production and distribution and consumption keep the country going. Translations.