Phytochemicals are compounds that are produced by plants (phyto means plant). They are found in fruits, vegetables, grains, beans, and other plants. Some of these phytochemicals are believed to protect cells from damage that could lead to cancer. 
Phytochemicals also help indicate the health of a plant, as well as when it is ready to be eaten and which nutrients may be present. These are all ways in which plants advertise to those that may spread their seeds (pollinators and hungry animals/insects) that they are a food source worth paying attention to. 
Cantaloupes provide an excellent source of antioxidants, like vitamin C and vitamin A (in the form of carotenoids). They also contain important nutrients like potassium, folate, copper, B vitamins, vitamin K, magnesium, and fiber. Story at-a-glance 1  +. Cantaloupes provide an excellent source of antioxidants, like vitamin C and vitamin A (in the form of carotenoids), along with
1 Cantaloupes provide an excellent source of antioxidants, like vitamin C and vitamin A (in the form of carotenoids), along with important nutrients like potassium, folate, copper, B vitamins, vitamin K, magnesium, and fiber. Story at-a-glance 1  +.
1 Because the flesh of the cantaloupe is often pastel-like in color (compared to the more vibrant color of fruits like oranges), we sometimes forget how important cantaloupe can be as a fruit source of vitamin A (in the form of carotenoids). What's New and Beneficial About Cantaloupe. 1  Because the flesh of the cantaloupe is often pastel-like in color (compared to the more vibrant color of fruits like oranges), we sometimes forget how important cantaloupe can be as a fruit source of vitamin A (in the form of carotenoids).
Imagine eating a crisp, juicy slice of watermelon on a hot summer's day and receiving great health benefits at the same time! Well, you do. An all-American favorite, watermelon is highly nutritious and packed full of the phytochemical lycopene. It's one of the few foods that contain it in large amounts. Other good sources include tomatoes, red and pink grapefruit, and guava. Lycopene is a red pigment that occurs naturally in certain plant and algal tissues. In addition to giving watermelon and tomatoes their color, it is also thought to act as a powerful antioxidant. 
Studies suggest that lycopene offer certain protection to skin against harmful UV rays. Watermelon fruit is a good source of potassium; Potassium is an important component of cell and body fluids that helps controlling heart rate and blood pressure. It, thus, offers protection against stroke and coronary heart diseases. Watermelon is an excellent source of Vitamin-A, which is a powerful natural anti-oxidant. 100 g fresh fruit provides 569 mg or 19% of daily-required levels of this vitamin. It is one of essential vitamin for vision and immunity.
Phytochemicals are found in plant foods (fruits, vegetables, beans, grains). By maintaining a balanced eating pattern that includes different forms and colors of fruits and vegetables, you’ll provide your body with a wide variety of all beneficial compounds, including phytochemicals! Each phytochemical comes from a variety of different plant sources and has different proposed effects on, and benefits for, the body. Some researchers estimate there are up to 4,000 phytochemicals! Scientists have identified thousands of them, although only a small fraction of phytochemicals have been studied closely.
The term phytochemicals is a broad name for a wide variety of compounds produced by plants. They’re found in fruits, vegetables, beans, grains, and other plants. Each phytochemical comes from a variety of different plant sources and has different proposed effects on, and benefits for, the body. Some researchers estimate there are up to 4,000 phytochemicals! Scientists have identified thousands of them, although only a small fraction of phytochemicals have been studied closely.