1 The mitochondria of eukaryotes evolved from aerobic bacteria (probably related to the rickettsias) living within their host cell. 2  The chloroplasts of red algae, green algae, and plants evolved from endosymbiotic cyanobacteria. 1 The first amino acid of their transcripts is always fMet as it is in bacteria (not methionine [Met] that is the first amino acid in eukaryotic proteins). 2  A number of antibiotics (e.g., streptomycin) that act by blocking protein synthesis in bacteria also block protein synthesis within mitochondria and chloroplasts.
A chloroplast is one of three types of plastids, characterized by its high concentration of chlorophyll (the other two types, the leucoplast and the chromoplast, contain little chlorophyll and do not carry out photosynthesis). One of the main functions of the chloroplast is its role in photosynthesis, the process by which light is transformed into chemical energy, to subsequently produce food in the form of sugars. Water (H 2 O) and carbon dioxide (CO 2) are used in photosynthesis, and sugar and oxygen (O 2) is made, using light energy.
In mesophyll cells, chloroplasts are specialized for the light reactions, so they lack rubisco, and have normal grana and thylakoids, which they use to make ATP and NADPH, as well as oxygen. They store CO 2 in a four-carbon compound, which is why the process is called C4 photosynthesis. One of the main functions of the chloroplast is its role in photosynthesis, the process by which light is transformed into chemical energy, to subsequently produce food in the form of sugars. Water (H 2 O) and carbon dioxide (CO 2) are used in photosynthesis, and sugar and oxygen (O 2) is made, using light energy.
No bacteria do not have chloroplast because bacteria is prokaryotic organism and chloroplast found only in eukaryotic cells. They are photosynthetic bacteria. No, bacteria do not have chloroplasts because they are prokaryotic which means they can't have membrane bound organelles other than ribosomes.. Chloroplasts are membrane bound organelles. As for the cyanobacteria, they are indeed photosynthetic, but they still don't have chloroplasts.
Glaucophyte algal chloroplasts have a peptidoglycan layer between the chloroplast membranes. It corresponds to the peptidoglycan cell wall of their cyanobacterial ancestors, which is located between their two cell membranes. These chloroplasts are called muroplasts (from Latin mura , meaning wall). One of the main functions of the chloroplast is its role in photosynthesis, the process by which light is transformed into chemical energy, to subsequently produce food in the form of sugars. Water (H 2 O) and carbon dioxide (CO 2) are used in photosynthesis, and sugar and oxygen (O 2) is made, using light energy.
Gram-positive bacteria bind a stain known as Gram's stain to the peptidoglycan in their cell walls. Gram-negative bacteria have more complex cell walls and less peptidoglycan and therefore are unable to bind the stain to their cell walls. 
Chloroplasts, like mitochondria, are bounded by a double membrane structure. This double membrane structure is called the chloroplast envelope and it has an intermembrane space between the two membranes. The inner membrane of the chloroplast encloses the interior of the chloroplast which is called the stroma. Mitochondria and chloroplasts are similar in the following ways: 1. Both are thought to have originally been free-living organisms, like bacteria, that were, during the course of evolution, engulfed by a larger cell in which they survived as intracellular symbionts (a.k.a., endosymbionts).
Some bacteria have chloroplasts. For example, cyanobacteria. They are photosynthetic bacteria. No, bacteria do not have chloroplasts because they are prokaryotic which means they can't have membrane bound organelles other than ribosomes.. Chloroplasts are membrane bound organelles. As for the cyanobacteria, they are indeed photosynthetic, but they still don't have chloroplasts. It is somewhat misleading
Hence, the name chloroplast indicates that these structures are chlorophyll containing plastids. Like mitochondria, chloroplasts have their own DNA, are responsible for energy production, and reproduce independently from the rest of the cell through a division process similar to bacterial binary fission. A chloroplast is a type of plant cell organelle known as a plastid. Plastids assist in storing and harvesting needed substances for energy production. A chloroplast contains a green pigment called chlorophyll, which absorbs light energy for photosynthesis.
from small green bodies called chloroplasts within their cells. Chloroplasts are. distant descendants of once free-living green bacteria. They still have their own. DNA, and they still reproduce by asexual division, building up to a substantial. population within each host cell. 