1 Hallux (big toe or great toe), the innermost (most proximal) toe and the closest to the toes of the other foot. 2  Second toe or  long toe  (although commonly shorter than the big toe). 3  Third toe, occasionally described as the ring toe. 4  Fourth toe, sometimes described as the ring toe. 
Some birds have 3 forward-facing toes (tridactyl, for example sanderling) and the ostrich 2 toes (didactyl). The first digit called hallux is homologous to the human big toe and usually projects to the rear. On the extreme phalanx of each toe, claws are located. Birds are generally digitigrade animals (toe-walkers) as reflected in the structure of their leg skeleton. They use only hindlimbs to walk, which is called bipedalism. As mentioned earlier, most bones of the avian foot (except toes) are fused together or with other bones, having over time changed function.
The toe refers to a part of the human foot, with five toes present on each human foot. Each toe consists of three phalanx bones, the proximal, middle, and distal, with the exception of the big toe (Latin: Hallux). The hallux only contains two phalanx bones, the proximal and distal. Outside the hallux bones is skin, and present on all five toes is a toenail. The toes are, from medial to lateral 1  : The first toe, also known as the hallux (big toe or great toe), the innermost toe. 2  The second toe, or long toe.
I agree that toes is sufficient and pretty self-explanatory. Interestingly enough, the more medical term, phalanges, can refer to either the fingers or toes. However, if you were refer to the big toe, it is also called the hallux.. The thumb can be called the pollex.. Written 15 Jun, 2011 • View Upvotes. Related Questions. More Answers Below.
The phalanx bones of the toe join to the metatarsal bones of the foot at the interphalangeal joints. Outside the hallux bones is skin, and present on all five toes is a toenail. The toes are, from medial to lateral 1  : The first toe, also known as the hallux (big toe or great toe), the innermost toe. 2  The second toe, or long toe.
The forefoot is composed of the five toes (called phalanges) and their connecting long bones (metatarsals). Each toe (phalanx) is made up of several small bones. The big toe (also known as the hallux) has two phalanx bones—distal and proximal. It has one joint, called the interphalangeal joint. The big toe articulates with the head of the first metatarsal and is called the first metatarsophalangeal joint (MTPJ for short). Underneath the first metatarsal head are two tiny, round bones called sesamoids. The other four toes each have three bones and two joints
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The medical term for the gaps between your toes (and fingers) is interspaces. The skin at the base of the interspace is a web, and the area underneath the skin and between the adjacent toe bones is the web space. EDIT: The tarsal bones are the bones in the rear part of the foot, including the heel, and intertarsal refers to the joints and ligaments between the various tarsal bones.
The phalanx bones of the toe join to the metatarsal bones of the foot at the interphalangeal joints. Outside the hallux bones is skin, and present on all five toes is a toenail. The toes are, from medial to lateral : Outside the hallux bones is skin, and present on all five toes is a toenail. The toes are, from medial to lateral 1  : The first toe, also known as the hallux (big toe or great toe), the innermost toe. 2  The second toe, or long toe.
The Medical Name for Toes is Phalanges. The name is derived from the Greek word Phalanx which means a straight projection. The big toe has its own name-Hallux-and the other toes are numbered from 2 to 5 at the pinky. The long bones just behind your toes are called the metatarsals. 1  More Great Medical Secrets!