Harassment may be by the employers, co-workers, or customers. Workplace harassment may be based on an individual's race, sex, color, national origin, age, religion, disability, marital status, medical condition, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, family, looks or other characteristics protected by law. (e) Seniority. (Reserved.). Workplace harassment is any unwanted or undesirable conduct that puts down or shows hostility or an aversion toward another person at the workplace. It is an act done by any person at the workplace intending to make the other uncomfortable
The Plain English Definition Of Workplace Harassment. Workplace harassment is a violation of title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. In order to understand the definition of workplace harassment, it is crucial to know what harassment is and what a workplace consists of. Harassment is an act committed by a person that makes another feel uncomfortable, offended, intimidated or oppressed. The most common form of workplace harassment is sexual harassment and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) has aptly declared that any offense establishing harassment on any protected class is subject to federal punishment.
Workplace bullying occurs when an employee experiences a persistent pattern of mistreatment from others in the workplace that causes harm. This form of bullying can include such tactics as verbal, nonverbal, psychological, physical abuse and humiliation. 
Harassment Definition. Sexual harassment is only one type of discriminatory harassment at work. Generally, harassment is any unwelcome discriminatory conduct in the workplace, that no reasonable employee should have to endure. As indicated, workplace harassment is a form of employment discrimination. However, to be the illegal form of employment discrimination, workplace harassment must be based on race, color, religion, national origin, disability, genetics, age or sex; or it must occur in the form of retaliation
Harassment. Harassment is a form of employment discrimination that violates Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, (ADEA), and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, (ADA). Employer Liability for Harassment. The employer is automatically liable for harassment by a supervisor that results in a negative employment action such as termination, failure to promote or hire, and loss of wages.
“Sexual” harassment includes unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors and verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature when: Engaging in such conduct is made an implicit or explicit term or condition of employment. 
Sexual Harassment. Unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature that tends to create a hostile or offensive work environment. Sexual harassment is a form of Sex Discrimination that occurs in the workplace. 
Workplace harassment is the belittling or threatening behavior directed at an individual worker or a group of workers. Recently, matters of workplace harassment have gained interest among practitioners and researchers as it is becoming one of the most sensitive areas of effective workplace management. A common misconception about workplace harassment is that workplace harassment is simply sexual harassment in the context of a workplace. While sexual harassment is a prominent form of workplace harassment, the United States Department of Labor defines workplace harassment as being more than just sexual harassment.
Sexual Harassment. It is unlawful to harass a person (an applicant or employee) because of that person s sex. Harassment can include sexual harassment or unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical harassment of a sexual nature. 