High blood pressure, or hypertension, directly increases the risk of coronary heart disease (heart attack) and stroke (brain attack). With high blood pressure, the arteries may have an increased resistance against the flow of blood, causing the heart to pump harder to circulate the blood. Blood pressure, measured with a blood pressure cuff and stethoscope by a nurse or other health care provider, is the force of the blood pushing against the artery walls. Each time the heart beats, it pumps blood into the arteries, resulting in the highest blood pressure as the heart contracts.
Here are some more things to know about the correlation between blood pressure and heart rate. 1  There is no good correlation between pulse rate and blood pressure. 2  Measuring pulse rate does not indicate high or low blood pressure. 1 For people with high blood pressure, there's no substitute for measuring blood pressure. 2  A rising heart rate does not cause your blood pressure to increase at the same rate. 3  Even though your heart is beating more times a minute, healthy blood vessels dilate (get larger) to allow more blood to flow through more easily.
Normal Blood Pressure. Normal blood pressure for adults is defined as a systolic pressure below 120 mmHg and a diastolic pressure below 80 mmHg. It is normal for blood pressures to change when you sleep, wake up, or are excited or nervous. When you are active, it is normal for your blood pressure to increase. 
The bottom number, called the diastolic pressure, is the measurement as the heart relaxes between beats. Normal blood pressure is a systolic pressure of less than 120 millimeters of mercury (mm Hg) and a diastolic pressure of less than 80 mm Hg, or 120/80 mm Hg, according to the American Heart Association (AHA). Having a blood pressure greater than 140/90 mm Hg is considered high blood pressure or hypertension. A blood pressure level between normal and hypertension, is called prehypertension, meaning it is higher than normal, but not high enough to be considered hypertension.
Ideally, we should all have a blood pressure below 120 over 80 (120/80). This is the ideal blood pressure for people wishing to have good health. At this level, we have a much lower risk of heart disease or stroke. If your blood pressure is optimal, this is great news. If your blood pressure is above 120/80mmHg, you will need to lower it. Most adults in the UK have blood pressure readings in the range from 120 over 80 (120/80) to 140 over 90 (140/90). If your blood pressure is within this range, you should be taking steps to bring it down or to stop it rising any further.
High blood pressure, or hypertension, directly increases the risk of coronary heart disease (heart attack) and stroke (brain attack). With high blood pressure, the arteries may have an increased resistance against the flow of blood, causing the heart to pump harder to circulate the blood. 
1 A rising heart rate does not cause your blood pressure to increase at the same rate. 2  Even though your heart is beating more times a minute, healthy blood vessels dilate (get larger) to allow more blood to flow through more easily. 3  When you exercise, your heart speeds up so the blood can reach your muscles. 1 For people with high blood pressure, there's no substitute for measuring blood pressure. 2  A rising heart rate does not cause your blood pressure to increase at the same rate. 3
Blood pressure reflects the force of blood as it hits the walls of the arteries. When the heart squeezes and pushes the blood out, the blood pushes against the walls of the blood vessels. People are born with very elastic vessels that can expand easily, and bounce back when the pressure on them is low. Having a blood pressure greater than 140/90 mm Hg is considered high blood pressure or hypertension. A blood pressure level between normal and hypertension, is called prehypertension, meaning it is higher than normal, but not high enough to be considered
Blood pressure (BP) is the pressure exerted by circulating blood upon the walls of blood vessels. When used without further specification, blood pressure usually refers to the arterial pressure in the systemic circulation. It is usually measured at a person's upper arm. Blood pressure is usually expressed in terms of the systolic (maximum) pressure over diastolic (minimum) pressure and is measured in millimeters of mercury (mm Hg). It is one of the vital signs along with respiratory rate, heart rate, oxygen saturation, and body temperature