Microsoft acquired Bungie in 2000; the project it was working on was repurposed into a launch title for Microsoft's Xbox console, called Halo: Combat Evolved. At E3 2009, Bungie and Microsoft revealed the company was developing another Halo-related game, Halo: Reach, for release in 2010. Reach was the last game in the Halo franchise to be developed by Bungie.
Halo on a huge screen. YES PLEASE. The Bellevue Offices of Bungie Studios is a brand new facility located in Bellevue, Washington, constructed in 2010 to house the immense awesomeness machine that is Bungie. As of August 1, 2010, Bungie now conducts all operations from this location, including its ongoing Plan for World Domination, and this new, modern fortress has replaced Bungie Towers as the official headquarters of Bungie. Bungie's Bellevue offices are located in a large converted multiplex movie theater.
Bungie, Inc. is an American video game developer located in Bellevue, Washington, United States. At E3 2009, Bungie and Microsoft revealed the company was developing another Halo-related game, Halo: Reach, for release in 2010. Reach was the last game in the Halo franchise to be developed by Bungie.
The company was established in May 1991 as Bungie Software Products Corporation by University of Chicago undergraduate student Alex Seropian, who later brought in programmer Jason Jones after publishing Jones' game Minotaur: The Labyrinths of Crete. At E3 2009, Bungie and Microsoft revealed the company was developing another Halo-related game, Halo: Reach, for release in 2010. Reach was the last game in the Halo franchise to be developed by Bungie.
Bungie Towers is the common (and somewhat ironic, as the building is only two stories tall) name for the former location of Bungie Studios. Bungie Towers was a top-secret high-security facility at 434 Kirkland Way, and served as the physical space where Bungie Studios' employees worked from 2004 until 2010. Requiring a larger space to continue its Plan for World Domination, Bungie moved its offices to a new space outside Seattle
Location Edit. Bungie Towers was located in Kirkland, Washington in the Puget Sound area, west of Microsoft. A more specific indication would be hazardous to health. Nearby is a local Starbucks and a few other commercial venues. The Starbucks building, along with the entire office, can be seen in the Bungie Studio Tour. Bungie Towers was a top-secret high-security facility at 434 Kirkland Way, and served as the physical space where Bungie Studios' employees worked from 2004 until 2010.
On October 5, 2007, Bungie announced that it had split from Microsoft and become a privately held independent company, Bungie LLC (Microsoft retained ownership of the Halo franchise IP). At E3 2009, Bungie and Microsoft revealed the company was developing another Halo-related game, Halo: Reach, for release in 2010. Reach was the last game in the Halo franchise to be developed by Bungie.