Pericoronitis is a dental disorder in which gum tissue becomes swollen and infected around the wisdom teeth, the third and final set of molars that most people get in their late teens or early twenties. If the pericoronitis is limited to the tooth (for example, if the pain and swelling has not spread), treat it by rinsing your mouth with warm salt water. You should also make sure that the gum flap has no food trapped under it. If your tooth, jaw, and cheek are swollen and painful, see your dentist right away.
Pericoronitis is inflammation of the gum tissue surrounding the crown portion of a tooth. Pericoronitis usually affects the lower third molar (wisdom) tooth where gum tissue overlaps the chewing surface of the tooth. Pericoronitis can be either chronic or acute. Chronic pericoronitis is a mild persistent inflammation of the area. Acute pericoronitis is when the symptoms intensify to fever, swelling, and pain, which indicate a spreading infection. Pericoronitis is differentiated from gum disease (or periodontitis) in that it occurs specifically around a partially erupting tooth. The cause of this condition is similar to the formation of a gum abscess in periodontitis by the entrapment of debris under the gum tissue
Pericoronitis is a posh name for saying that the tissue or gum around the top of your wisdom tooth is infected. 'Peri' meaning around, 'coron' meaning the top or crown of the tooth and 'tis' meaning swelling of. 
Signs and symptoms of pericoronitis can range from mild to severe and include pain, swelling of the gums, tenderness, redness of gum tissue, bad breath, bad taste from pus, difficulty opening the jaw, difficulty swallowing, swollen lymph nodes, fever, loss of appetite, and feeling unwell. Acute pericoronitis is when the symptoms intensify to fever, swelling, and pain, which indicate a spreading infection. Pericoronitis is differentiated from gum disease (or periodontitis) in that it occurs specifically around a partially erupting tooth.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Pericoronitis (from the Greek peri, around, Latin corona crown and-itis, inflammation) also known as operculitis, is inflammation of the soft tissues surrounding the crown of a partially erupted tooth, including the gingiva (gums) and the dental follicle. Chronic pericoronitis can present with no or only mild symptoms and long remissions between any escalations to acute pericoronitis. Acute pericoronitis is associated with a wide range of symptoms including severe pain, swelling and fever.
The treatment of pericoronitis is through pain management and by resolving the inflammation. The inflammation can be resolved by flushing the debris or infection from the pericoronal tissues or by removing the associated tooth or operculum. Chronic pericoronitis can present with no or only mild symptoms and long remissions between any escalations to acute pericoronitis. Acute pericoronitis is associated with a wide range of symptoms including severe pain, swelling and fever.
What is Pericoronitis. Pericoronitis is an acute infection which causes swelling or inflammation of gums and surrounding soft tissues of a partially erupted tooth. Pericoronitis usually occurs in lower wisdom tooth area. Wisdom teeth usually erupt in late teens. 
Difference between Pericoronitis and Supracoronitis : Pericoronitis is the inflammation of soft tissues covering the crown of the partially erupted or impacted tooth and is caused by Normal Oral flora. 
Generally, a pericoronitis infection will be caused by: 1  Gum flap infection. 2  In case of a partially erupted wisdom tooth, part of the tooth is exposed, but part of it remains covered by a flap of gum tissue. 3  Food particles and other debris may get trapped under this flap of gums and cause an initial inflammation. Pericoronitis is a condition with an aetiology that is almost always associated with tooth impaction, and especially with impacted wisdom teeth. The third molar teeth, better known as wisdom teeth, start to erupt at the age of 17 and the eruption of all four teeth is usually completed by the age of 24.