Enya. Meaning of the name Enya. Listen and learn how to pronounce Enya so you can get the correct pronunciation for this girl name. MEANING: eithne means “kernel of a nut or seed” but it may also be related to Aidan meaning “little fire.” There are at least nine St. Eithnes.
Aenya /ae-nya/ [3 sylls.] as a name for girls. Aenya's name origins are Irish and Gaelic, and the meaning of the name Aenya is kernel. Aenya is a version of Enya (Irish, Gaelic): version of Eithne. Compare surname Amaya. 
Meaning of Enya. Irish name. In Irish, the name Enya means-little fire.The name Enya originated as an Irish name. The name Enya is most often used as a girl name or female name. Irish Name Meaning-little fire. Origin-Ireland.
Meaning of the name Enya. MEANING: eithne means “kernel of a nut or seed” but it may also be related to Aidan meaning “little fire.” There are at least nine St. Eithnes. One 6th century St. Eithne was the mother of St. Columb
Enya /enya/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Irish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Enya is kernel. Variant of Eithne. Also possibly means fire. Enya is the name of an Irish pop singer. Enya is an uncommon first name for women. Enya is also a rare surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Below is a graphed comparison of the popularity of Enya and corresponding names. Aine, Ena and Etna are the prominent alternative forms of Enya (not in Top 1000) listed in the Top 1000
The name Enya is of Irish origin, and it means Form of Eithne . According to the 1994 U.S. Social Security Administration data, the name Enya is not a popular baby girl's name in California. Imagine that, only 6 babies in California have the same name as you in 1994. Across the entire United States a total of only 23 babies also bear the same first name during the same year.
Enya. MEANING: eithne means “kernel of a nut or seed” but it may also be related to Aidan meaning “little fire.” There are at least nine St. Eithnes.
Enya is largely used in the English and Irish languages, and its origin is Celtic and Latin. Enya is an English and Irish variant transcription of the name Eithne (English, Gaelic, Irish, and Scottish). Enya is also an English variant transcription of the name Ena (English, Irish, and German). Enya is unusual as a baby name for girls. It is not listed in the top 1000 names. 