Weather Cycles. The temperature in the Amazon's Tropical Rain forest is hotter than that outside of the rain forest. Rain comes with the corresponding seasons of Fall and Spring, and there are a few dry months when less than 100 cubic inches of rain fall. No areas in the rain forest are wet throughout the year. The Tropical Rain forest biome is located in Central and South America, Southeast Asia, Africa and Australia. It is found in most equatorial areas. We are specifically looking at the Tropical Rain Forest of the Amazon in South America. Back to the top.
Features of a tropical rainforest. Climate: The tropical rainforest ecosystem is located in a band 5 either side of the equator. This means that it is hot throughout the year, with temperatures ranging between 25 and 30°C.There also is a massive level of precipitation, usually between 2000 and 3000mm each year. Human uses of a tropical rainforest. Logging: Rainforest trees are mainly hardwoods. These can be very lucrative on the international market and as many of the countries of the world with tropical rainforests in them are LEDC's, it is a market that they often exploit.
The majority are found in Central and South America, but tropical rainforests also exist in Southeast Asia, eastern Australia, and central Africa (map of locations) . The largest in tact tropical rainforest in the world is in the Amazon River Basin. As a result, the plants release water vapor which condenses and falls as precipitation. On average, a tropical rainforest is about 80°F (26°C) and has little daily or seasonal variation in temperature. In addition, tropical rainforests have an average of 100 inches (254 cm) of precipitation annually.
A rainforest is a forest differentiated by high levels of precipitation-normally a minimum of at least 68-78 inches (172-198 cm) annually. Rainforests tend to have fairly mild and/or warm climates and feature the highest levels of biodiversity in the world. As a result, the plants release water vapor which condenses and falls as precipitation. On average, a tropical rainforest is about 80°F (26°C) and has little daily or seasonal variation in temperature. In addition, tropical rainforests have an average of 100 inches (254 cm) of precipitation annually.
The geography of the rain forest is moss, rocks, trees,healthy soil, and grass. Also the geography of the rain forest might have trees, vines, and many types of different plants.The geography in the rain forest is usually rocky and covers mountains.Geography in the rainforest are mostly forests, woods, and grassland. - Peter316 Mar 26, 2008 The rain forest has a rich geography. The geography of the rainforest has many trees, vines, and rocks.The trees are very important because it provides shelter for the animals. The vines help the monkeys move from place to place. The reason why there are lots of trees and sunlight is because there is alot of rain and sunlight.
Like plants, rainforests support a large amount of fauna that are all adapted to life in the different layers of the forest. Monkeys for example live in tropical rainforest canopies, while owls do the same in the temperate rainforests. As a result, the plants release water vapor which condenses and falls as precipitation. On average, a tropical rainforest is about 80°F (26°C) and has little daily or seasonal variation in temperature. In addition, tropical rainforests have an average of 100 inches (254 cm) of precipitation annually.
**** Rainforests by Michael G. 2001 In an average year the climate in a tropical rain forest is very humid because of all the rainfall. A tropical rainforest gets about 150 cm of rain per year. It gets lots of rain because it is very hot and wet in rain forests. The hotter the air, the more water vapor it can hold. 
The geography in the Tropical Rain Forest is that there is lots of trees and lots of plants grass. And also there is lots of animals that live in the like monkeys,birds,parrots. Sometimes there can be snakes during certain periods of the year. Many Rainforest's have a lot of different types of trees that grow there. The geography of the rainforest has many trees, vines, and rocks.The trees are very important because it provides shelter for the animals. The vines help the monkeys move from place to place. The reason why there are lots of trees and sunlight is because there is alot of rain and sunlight.
The Tropical Rainforest is a forest occurring in tropical areas of heavy rainfall. It is abundant with many species of wildlife and vegetation. Rainforests cover less than two percent of the Earth's surface. Rainforests receive 160 to 400 inches (400-1000 cm) of rain each year. The largest rainforests are in Brazil (South America), Zaire (Africa) and Indonesia (South East Asia). Other tropical rainforest places are in Hawaii and the islands of the Pacific & Caribbean.