Sections. Conus medullaris is the cone-shaped end of the spinal cord. It is normally located between the end of the thoracic vertebrae (T12) and the beginning of the lumbar vertebrae (L1), though sometimes the conus medullaris is found between L1 and L2. At the pointed end of the conus medullaris, the nerve roots of the spinal cord continue in a dangling formation called the cauda equina, which resembles a horse’s tail.
A cross section of the human spinal cord. Conus medullaris is the is the technical name for the lower end of the spinal cord. Damage to the conus medullaris may cause pain in the lower back. The conus medullaris originates at the base of the brain and extends to the lower end of the spinal cord. Conus medullaris syndrome may cause difficulty walking as well as numbness and weakness in the legs.
The conus medullaris (Latin for medullary cone) is the tapered, lower end of the spinal cord. It occurs near lumbar vertebral levels 1 (L1) and 2 (L2), occasionally lower. The upper end of the conus medullaris is usually not well defined. Conus medullaris syndrome is a collection of signs and symptoms associated with injury to the conus medullaris. It typically causes back pain and bowel and bladder dysfunction but weakness and sensory loss is uncommon.
A person with conus medullaris syndrome has symptoms that occur when the nerves in the conus medullaris malfunction. The malfunction is caused by a structure (e.g. hematoma, tumor, etc.) that places pressure on the conus medullaris. The conus medullaris is the end of the spinal cord, which is located in the lower back. Symptoms of conus medullaris syndrome include low back pain, numbness in the groin or inner thighs, leg numbness, and foot numbness. Other symptoms include leg weakness, loss of bladder control, difficulty walking, and impotence
The conus medullaris is the technical name for the lower end of the spinal cord. Originating at the base of the brain, this thick bundle of nerve tissue passes through the center of the spinal column, penetrating the vertebrae, which protect it from damage. Damage to the conus medullaris may cause pain in the lower back. The conus medullaris originates at the base of the brain and extends to the lower end of the spinal cord. Conus medullaris syndrome may cause difficulty walking as well as numbness and weakness in the legs.
Nerves that pass through the conus medullaris control the legs, genitals, bladder and bowel. At the pointed end of the conus medullaris, the nerve roots of the spinal cord continue in a dangling formation called the cauda equina, which resembles a horse’s tail. Because the conus medullaris resides in the lower back, injuries or conditions of the lumbar spine can affect this terminal end of the spinal cord
The cauda equina (Latin for horse's tail) is a bundle of spinal nerves and spinal nerve roots, consisting of the second through fifth lumbar nerve pairs, the first through fifth sacral nerve pairs, and the coccygeal nerve, all of which originate in the conus medullaris of the spinal cord. 
The conus medullaris is the terminal end of the spinal cord. It occurs near lumbar nerves 1 (L1) and 2 (L2). After the spinal cord terminates, the spinal nerves continue as dangling nerves called the cauda equina. 
Dr Prashant Mudgal et al. Conus medullaris syndrome is caused by and injury or insult to the conus medullaris and lumbar nerve roots. It is a clinical subset of spinal cord injury syndromes. 