In order 1. lac I-constitutively expressed repressor gene, Lac repressor binds to DNA of the operator region and prevents RNA polymerase advance, unless bound by lactose 2. Promoter-where RNA polymerase binds to initiate transcription 3. Operator-where Lac repressor binds unless lactose is present 4. Lac Z-beta galactosidase (breaks down lactose into glucose and galactose) 5. Lac Y-permease (transports lactose into the cell) 6. Mechanism of transcription factors 1. Stabilize or block the binding of x to x 2. 1. binding of RNA polymerase to DNA 2. Catalyze the acetylation or deacetylation of histone proteins. 3. Recruit coactivator or corepressor proteins to the transcription factor DNA complex.
RNA polymerases bind to regions of DNA known as promoters. Promoter regions are comprised of the initiation site and numerous nucleotides upstream from the initiation site. The TATA box is necessary for transcription because RNA polymersase II cannot recognize the initiation sites on its own. The TATA box acts as a binding site for some transcription factors, such as TATA binding protein, and is crucial in transcription factors binding the correct part of DNA to start gene transcription. It is also believed to be crucial in RNA Polymerase II binding of DNA. 10 people found this useful.
(genetics) A site in a DNA molecule at which RNA polymerase and transcription factors bind to initiate transcription of mRNA. Supplement. The site is actually specific DNA sequences that are recognized by transcription factors, which recruit RNA polymerase at the site. In the Operon Model, the promoter is the gene segment that serves as the initiation site where RNA polymerase binds to and initiates the transcription of certain genes. Conversely, in the presence of a repressor protein, this segment binds with the repressor.
In genetics, a promoter is a region of DNA that initiates transcription of a particular gene. Lactose is inhibiting the repressor, allowing the RNA polymerase to bind with the promoter, and express the genes, which synthesize lactase. Eventually, the lactase will digest all of the lactose, until there is none to bind to the repressor.
One possibility is that enhancer-binding proteins — in addition to their DNA-binding site, have sites that bind to transcription factors (TF) assembled at a promoter of the gene. 1 several (4) promoter sites for Sp1 about 300 bases from one end. 2  Sp1 is a zinc-finger transcription factor that binds to the sequence 5' GGGCGG 3' found in the promoters of many genes, especially housekeeping genes. 3  several (5) enhancer sites about 800 bases from the other end.
The TATA box is a motif found in the promoter region of many genes in eukaryotes. It has a consensus sequence of 5'-TATAAA-3', and is found approximately 25 base pairs u … pstream of the transcription site. The TATA box acts as a binding site for some transcription factors, such as TATA binding protein, and is crucial in transcription factors binding the correct part of DNA to start gene transcription. It is also believed to be crucial in RNA Polymerase II binding of DNA. 10 people found this useful.
Promoters. Promoters are DNA sequences whose purpose is not to encode information about the organism itself, but rather they serve as a kind of On switch to initiate the biological process of transcription for the genes which follow the promoter DNA sequence. 
Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) is a nucleic acid that contains the genetic instructions used in the development and functioning of all known living organisms. 
Contact Us. A promoter is a regulatory region of DNA located upstream (towards the 5' region) of of a gene, providing a control point for regulated gene transcription. 