You may have some discomfort when the needles are put into your fistula or graft, but most patients have no other problems. The dialysis treatment itself is painless. However, some patients may have a drop in their blood pressure. If this happens, you may feel sick to your stomach, vomit, have a headache or cramps. To get your blood into the artificial kidney, the doctor needs to make an access (entrance) into your blood vessels. This is done by minor surgery to your arm or leg. Sometimes, an access is made by joining an artery to a vein under your skin to make a bigger blood vessel called a fistula.
Here are some ways to care for your fistula and graft. 1  Keep your access arm clean, and watch for signs of infection such as tenderness, swelling, redness, fever or flu-like symptoms. 2  If an infection is caught early, it can often be easily treated with antibiotics. 1 Watch for signs of infection: redness, swelling, pain, pus or fever. 2  Call your dialysis center right away if you notice any of these. 3  During dialysis, be sure the staff person who will connect your catheter to the dialysis tubing washes his or her hands first and wears gloves and a mask.
Here are some ways to care for your PD catheter. 1  Before you do a PD exchange or exit site care, put on a mask and scrub your hands well with liquid soap. 2  Clean under your fingernails, between your fingers, the backs of your hands, and your palms. 1 Watch for signs of infection: redness, swelling, pain, pus or fever. 2  Call your dialysis center right away if you notice any of these. 3  During dialysis, be sure the staff person who will connect your catheter to the dialysis tubing washes his or her hands first and wears gloves and a mask.
However, if your blood vessels are not adequate for a fistula, the doctor may use a soft plastic tube to join an artery and a vein under your skin. This is called a graft. Occasionally, an access is made by means of a narrow plastic tube, called a catheter, which is inserted into a large vein in your neck. To get your blood into the artificial kidney, the doctor needs to make an access (entrance) into your blood vessels. This is done by minor surgery to your arm or leg. Sometimes, an access is made by joining an artery to a vein under your skin to make a bigger blood vessel called a fistula.
Hospice Care for Kidney Failure/Renal Failure Patients. If you are reading this, it is likely you or someone you love has been waging a difficult physical and emotional battle against kidney disease. Your search for comfort, support and answers does not stop when you choose to forgo dialysis. 
This is often done at a dialysis center or hospital, although some patients on hemodialysis -- along with a family member or friend -- may be taught how to perform the procedure at home. Your health care provider will discuss your options and determine which setting is best for you. 
Average life expectancy on dialysis is 5-10 years, however, many patients have lived well on dialysis for 20 or even 30 years. Talk to your healthcare team about how to take care of yourself and stay healthy on dialysis. To get your blood into the artificial kidney, the doctor needs to make an access (entrance) into your blood vessels. This is done by minor surgery to your arm or leg. Sometimes, an access is made by joining an artery to a vein under your skin to make a bigger blood vessel called a fistula.
Transportation for dialysis treatment. In some cases, Medicare may cover ambulance transportation when you have End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) . There are multiple factors that contribute to whether your ambulance transport is covered for dialysis. If you’re in a Medicare Advantage Plan (Part C) , the plan may cover some non-ambulance transportation to dialysis centers and doctors. Call your plan for more information. Get your plan's contact information from a Personalized Search (under General Search) , or search by plan name.
Being in dialysis therapy can be overwhelming. Your support and care will go a long way in helping someone overcome their condition. Offer to help arrange transportation to and from the dialysis center. Make sure that the doctor or nurse is checking their weight and blood pressure before and after each session. If the results are unsatisfactory, adjustments can be made so that your friend or loved one is receiving optimal care. Dialysis treatment represents the loss of independence for many, which can be emotionally challenging. Your encouragement and understanding during this difficult time will go a long way toward healing.
When chronic kidney disease progresses to end stage renal disease (stage 5 kidney disease), patients will need dialysis to help clear the blood of toxins and fluid usually processed by the kidneys. The two main dialysis modalities are hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis. Hemodialysis involves using a machine that circulates your blood through a filter to help remove fluid and waste. Hemodialysis is most frequently done in a dialysis unit three times a week for three to four hours each time. Dialysis staff will monitor your dialysis while you are on the machine.