Internal means inside. Fertilization occurs when the male gamete (sperm) meets the female gamete (egg). External fe … rtilization is fertilization that occurs outside the body, whereas internal fertilization is fertilization that occurs inside the body (usually the body of the female). External takes place outside the female, as with fish eggs on which the male fish places his sperm. Internal fertilization, in plants and animals, takes place within the organism's structures, where the gametes are joined.
Fertilization which takes place inside the female body is called Internal fertilization in animals is done through the following different ways: 1 Via spermatophore, a sperm-containing cap placed by the male in the female's cloaca. 2  Usually, the sperm is stored in spermathecae on the roof of the cloaca until it is needed at the time of oviposition. 3  It is used by some salamander and newt species, by the arachnida, some insects and some mollusks.
Stony coral spawning. External fertilization is a strategy of fertilization in which a sperm cell unites with an egg cell in the open, rather than inside specialized organs within the bodies of the parents. In contrast, internal fertilization takes place inside the female after insemination through copulation. Hardly any plants make use of external fertilization, except for a minority of aquatic non-vascular plants such as algae; vascular plants retain the ova in the parental body till after fertilisation.
Best Answer: Internal fertilization is when the sperm is directly deposited into the female, who produces eggs and fertilizes them in her body. External fertilization is when the sperm and eggs are released outside of the body and meet outside of the body, not like how chithra described. Birds do not have external fertilization, the fertilization still occurs in the body, they just do not produce live young.
internal fertilization, the union of gametes within the body of the female after insemination. See also artificial insemination. 
External means outside. Internal means inside. Fertilization occurs when the male gamete (sperm) meets the female gamete (egg). External fe … rtilization is fertilization that occurs outside the body, whereas internal fertilization is fertilization that occurs inside the body (usually the body of the female). Internal is internal... the egg/eggs are fertilized inside the  female through the use of a copulatory organ to deposit sperm.    External: the egg is fertilized by sp … erm outside of the body...  males and females release their gametes (eggs & sperm) into a  common environment. Answered. In Science
This is achieved when two sex cells called gametes [gametes: the sex cells-sperm in males, ova (eggs) in females] fuse together. This process is called fertilisation and can happen either outside the female (external fertilisation) or inside (internal fertilisation). The male sex cell is called a sperm. 
External vs Internal Fertilization. Fertilization. Fertilization is one step of the reproduction process both in animals and plants. Reproduction can be categorized as sexual reproduction and asexual reproduction, and fertilization only occurs in sexual reproduction. Animals such as mammals also have internal fertilization, where embryo develops inside mother, which enhances the protection to the embryo1. Internal fertilization facilitates the survival of the embryo, selective fertilization, and longer protection and minimizes the wastage of gametes.
Internal Fertilization. The fertilization process occurs within the body of a female is called internal fertilization. It is a specialization for the protection of egg, but it depends on the birth method. Reptiles and birds have thick shell, covering the egg to protect it from dehydration and destruction. Animals such as mammals also have internal fertilization, where embryo develops inside mother, which enhances the protection to the embryo1. Internal fertilization facilitates the survival of the embryo, selective fertilization, and longer protection and minimizes the wastage of gametes.