Systole. The contraction of the cardiac muscle tissue in the ventricles is called systole. When the ventricles contract, they force the blood from their chambers into the arteries leaving the heart. The left ventricle empties into the aorta and the right ventricle into the pulmonary artery. The atrium then delivers blood to the powerful lower chamber, called a ventricle, which pumps blood away from the heart through powerful, rhythmic contractions. The human heart is actually two pumps in one. The right side receives oxygen-poor blood from the various regions of the body and delivers it to the lungs.
In humans, other mammals, and birds, the heart is divided into four chambers: upper left and right atria; and lower left and right ventricles. Commonly the right atrium and ventricle are referred together as the right heart and their left counterparts as the left heart. Fish in contrast have two chambers, an atrium and a ventricle, while reptiles have three chambers. The heart is a muscular organ in humans and other animals, which pumps blood through the blood vessels of the circulatory system. Blood provides the body with oxygen and nutrients, and also assists in the removal of metabolic wastes.
The upper chamber on each side of the heart, which is called an atrium, receives and collects the blood coming to the heart. The atrium then delivers blood to the powerful lower chamber, called a ventricle, which pumps blood away from the heart through powerful, rhythmic contractions. The human heart is actually two pumps in one. The right side receives oxygen-poor blood from the various regions of the body and delivers it to the lungs.
The inner layer of the pericardium is attached to the heart muscle. A coating of fluid separates the two layers of membrane, letting the heart move as it beats. Your heart has 4 chambers. The upper chambers are called the left and right atria, and the lower chambers are called the left and right ventricles. A wall of muscle called the septum separates the left and right atria and the left and right ventricles. 
Chambers of the Heart. The heart has four chambers: two atria and two ventricles. 1  The right atrium receives oxygen-poor blood from the body and pumps it to the right ventricle. 2  The right ventricle pumps the oxygen-poor blood to the lungs. 3  The left atrium receives oxygen-rich blood from the lungs and pumps it to the left ventricle. 1 The right atrium receives oxygen-poor blood from the body and pumps it to the right ventricle. 2  The right ventricle pumps the oxygen-poor blood to the lungs. 3  The left atrium receives oxygen-rich blood from the lungs and pumps it to the left ventricle. 4  The left ventricle pumps the oxygen-rich blood to the body.
Print. The heart has two upper and two lower chambers. The upper chambers, the right and left atria, receive incoming blood. The lower chambers, the more muscular right and left ventricles, pump blood out of your heart. The heart valves, which keep blood flowing in the right direction, are gates at the chamber openings
There are two types chambers of the heart, called the ventricles and the atria (singular is atrium). Each side of the heart has one ventricle and one atrium, and most people make a common mistake of assuming that the ventricles sit atop the atria. In fact the reverse is true. Each ventricle is located below an atrium. 
The heart is divided into four main areas, or chambers – two upper chambers (called the left and right atrium) and two lower chambers (called the left and right ventricle). There are four valves that control the flow of blood through your heart. 