Public Key Infrastructure or PKI can be a very complex but important subject. We’ll give you a PKI overview to help you understand what PKI is and how it can help you. PKI is a loaded term that involves the hardware, software, policies, and standards that are necessary to manage SSL certificates. A PKI lets you:
How PKI Works. A PKI is based on certificates. A certificate is a digitally signed statement containing a public key and the name of the subject. There can be multiple types of names in the certificate by which the subject is known, such as a directory name, e-mail name, and Domain Name Service (DNS) name.
Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) refers to the technical mechanisms, procedures and policies that collectively provide a framework for addressing the previously illustrated fundamentals of security-authentication, confidentiality, integrity, non-repudiation and access control. Encryption and Decryption. The benefits of PKI are delivered through the use of Public Key Cryptography. A core aspect of Public Key Cryptography is the encryption and decryption of digital data. Encryption is the conversion of data into seemingly random, incomprehensible data.
A PKI is a set of services combined to form an infrastructure for the purpose securing applications. A PKI provides these services to applications: 1  Certificate Authority – Digitally signs a certificate that contains an identity and a key. 2  This process is called certification. 
First, let’s be clear about what a PKI is not. A PKI is not an authentication method; rather it is an infrastructure that uses digital certificates as an authentication mechanism and is built to better manage certificates and their associated keys.
1 (top). 2  The comprehensive system required to provide public-key encryption and digital signature services is known as a public-key infrastructure.The purpose of a public-key infrastructure is to manage keys and certificates. Users retrieving a public key from a certificate can be assured that the public key is valid. That is, users can trust that the certificate and its associated public key belong to the entity specified by the distinguished name.
Diagram of a public key infrastructure. A public key infrastructure (PKI) is a set of hardware, software, people, policies, and procedures needed to create, manage, distribute, use, store, and revoke digital certificates and manage public-key encryption. The purpose of a PKI is to facilitate the secure electronic transfer of information for a range of network activities such as e-commerce, internet banking and confidential email.
vs. CRYPTOCARD BlackShield. A public key infrastructure (PKI) supports the distribution and identification of public encryption keys, enabling users and computers to both securely exchange data over networks such as the Internet and verify the identity of the other party. Problems with PKI. PKI provides a chain of trust, so that identities on a network can be verified. However, like any chain, a PKI is only as strong as its weakest link. There are various standards that cover aspects of PKI -- such as the Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate Policy and Certification Practices Framework (RFC2527) -- but there is no predominant governing body enforcing these standards