Skeletal System Diseases. Our skeletal system provides a framework for the muscles and helps in the basic function of movement. However, due to age and various other factors, the bones become weak and fragile and may get affected by some common disorders. The tissues of the skeletal system are affected by degenerative wear and tear, infectious agents, genetic anomalies, etc. Some of the commonly known diseases, disorders and medical conditions of the skeletal system have been described below.
Your bones intersect at joints, which have different capacities for movement. The most mobile joints are lined with a smooth tissue called cartilage and contain fluid to prevent bone-on-bone friction. Joint disorders are the leading type of skeletal system disease. Osteoarthritis is the most common form, affecting at least 27 million Americans, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Like the frame of a car, the bones and connecting tissues of your skeletal system provide a solid structure for your body. It protects your internal organs and serves as the attachment point for your muscles, enabling movement.
One of the much rarer diseases of the skeletal system is bone cancer. It may originate in the bones or spread there from another part of the body. In the United States, primary bone cancers accounts for less than 1 percent of all cancer cases, according to the American Cancer Society. Bursitis is a disorder that most commonly affects the shoulder and hip joints, Nace said. It is caused by an inflammation of the bursa, small fluid-filled bags that act as lubricating surfaces for muscles to move over bones. The skeletal system is also susceptible to breaks, strains and fractures.
Cancerous and noncancerous tumors can affect the bones and other tissues of the skeletal system. The most common cancerous bone tumors are metastatic. These tumors originate from a cancer elsewhere in the body -- such as the breast, lung or colon -- that has spread to the bones. Like the frame of a car, the bones and connecting tissues of your skeletal system provide a solid structure for your body. It protects your internal organs and serves as the attachment point for your muscles, enabling movement.
The skeletal system can be affected by infectious diseases. Osteomyelitis describes a bone infection, usually caused by bacteria. Septic arthritis is a joint infection, which is also typically caused by bacteria but is sometimes due to a virus or fungus. Like the frame of a car, the bones and connecting tissues of your skeletal system provide a solid structure for your body. It protects your internal organs and serves as the attachment point for your muscles, enabling movement.
Osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis are the most common forms of this disease. 2. Bone cancer. Bone cancer is a skeletal system disease that originates within a bone of the body causing the bones to weaken. Individuals with bone cancer commonly experience fatigue, bone pain and frequent bone fractures. Arthritis is an inflammatory condition. It affects the joints of the body such as the knee joint and portions of the spinal column. In general, typical symptoms of this skeletal system disease include joint pain, swelling, and stiffness accompanied by a reduction in the ability to freely move the joint.
The adult human skeletal system comprises 206 bones and the associated cartilage, tendons, ligaments as well as teeth. The bones are connected to each other through ligaments and to muscles through tendons. The tissues of the skeletal system are affected by degenerative wear and tear, infectious agents, genetic anomalies, etc. Some of the commonly known diseases, disorders and medical conditions of the skeletal system have been described below.
Other common conditions that affect the skeletal system include: 1  Osteoporosis: This is a disease in which the bones become fragile and prone to fracture. 2  Leukemia: This is a cancer of the white blood cells. 3  Osteopenia, osteitis deformans, and osteomalacia: Similar to osteoporosis, these are other types of bone loss. 
Diseases of the Skeletal System. Osteoporosis. Osteoporosis is a disease of the bones that causes them to be fragile, resulting in fractures. The bones actually become thinner and less dense. This is either due to the body not forming enough new bone, or too much bone being reabsorbed into the body, or both.