Intake recommendations for folate and other nutrients are provided in the Dietary Reference Intakes (DRIs) developed by the Food and Nutrition Board (FNB) at the Institute of Medicine (IOM) of the National Academies (formerly National Academy of Sciences) [ 2 ]. The FNB developed DFEs to reflect the higher bioavailability of folic acid than that of food folate. At least 85% of folic acid is estimated to be bioavailable when taken with food, whereas only about 50% of folate naturally present in food is bioavailable [ 2, 3 ].
Thiamin is found in most types of food. Good sources include: 1  vegetables – such as peas. 2  fresh and dried fruit. 3  eggs. 4  wholegrain breads. 5  some fortified breakfast cereals. 6  liver. Folate is found in small amounts in many foods. Good sources include: 1  broccoli. 2  brussels sprouts. 3  liver. 4  spinach. 5  asparagus. 6  peas. 7  chickpeas. 8 
Like the other B complex vitamins, niacin is important in energy production. Two unique forms of vitamin B3 (called nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, or NAD, and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate, or NADP) are essential for conversion of dietary proteins, fats, and carbohydrates into usable energy. Six of these contain 50% or more of the DRI recommendation for the nutrient. The good sources of niacin come from many different food groups. We see legumes (particularly peanuts and green peas) represented. A number of vegetables, particularly root vegetables and leafy greens, also show up as good niacin sources.
B vitamins have an important role in changing carbohydrates, protein and fat to energy. Vitamin B6 also works together with the mineral iron to stabilise levels of homocysteine, an amino acid that, if raised, can increase the risk of heart disease. Vitamin B6 is assisted by vitamin B12 and folate. Vitamin B12 is also important for healthy blood and nerves. Together, folate and vitamin B12 contribute to the making and functioning of our genetic material (DNA), so they impact every cell in the body. Most B vitamins have a number and a name. Riboflavin: milk, eggs, liver, green vegetables and fortified breakfast cereals*. Niacin: Meat, fortified breakfast cereals*. B6: Beef, fish and poultry, eggs, whole-grains and some vegetables. B12: meat, milk and eggs and some yeast extracts*.
Sources of Folate. Food. Folate is found naturally in a wide variety of foods, including vegetables (especially dark green leafy vegetables), fruits and fruit juices, nuts, beans, peas, dairy products, poultry and meat, eggs, seafood, and grains (Table 2) [ 3, 7 ]. The FNB developed DFEs to reflect the higher bioavailability of folic acid than that of food folate. At least 85% of folic acid is estimated to be bioavailable when taken with food, whereas only about 50% of folate naturally present in food is bioavailable [ 2, 3 ].
Folic acid, known as folate in its natural form, is one of the B-group vitamins. Folic acid has several important functions. For example, it: 1  works together with vitamin B12 to form healthy red blood cells. 2  helps to reduce the risk of central nervous system defects, such as spina bifida, in unborn babies. Folate is found in small amounts in many foods. Good sources include: 1  broccoli. 2  brussels sprouts. 3  liver. 4  spinach. 5  asparagus. 6  peas. 7  chickpeas. 8  fortified breakfast cereals.
Also, some products are labeled as enriched because they meet FDA’s definition for a type of food with a name that includes that term (such as enriched bread or enriched rice). For example, a product labeled as enriched flour must contain specified amounts of thiamine, riboflavin, niacin, folic acid, and iron. Food labels may claim that the product is enriched with protein, vitamins, minerals, dietary fiber, or potassium, provided that the product meets the requirements in FDA's regulation for nutrient content claims using the term enriched..
Mean dietary intakes of folate (including food folate and folic acid from fortified foods) range from 454 to 652 mcg DFE per day in U.S. adults of various ages and from 385 to 674 mcg DFE in children aged 1 to 18 years [ 16, 17 ]. The FNB developed DFEs to reflect the higher bioavailability of folic acid than that of food folate. At least 85% of folic acid is estimated to be bioavailable when taken with food, whereas only about 50% of folate naturally present in food is bioavailable [ 2, 3 ].
1 Folate is a generic term referring to both natural folates in food and folic acid, the synthetic form used in supplements and fortified food. 2  Folate is critical in the metabolism of nucleic acid precursors and several amino acids, as well as in methylation reactions. ( 3 More information). Naturally occurring folates exist in many chemical forms; folates are found in food, as well as in metabolically active forms in the human body. Folic acid is the major synthetic form found in fortified foods and vitamin supplements. Other synthetic forms include folinic acid (Figure 1) and levomefolic acid.
All of the food groups have foods rich in vitamins. Milk naturally contains riboflavin and is fortified with vitamins A and D. Enriched grain products contain added thiamin, riboflavin, niacin, and folic acid. Vitamin C is found in fruits and vegetables, while only animal foods naturally contain vitamin B 12. While it's possible to get all the vitamins you need by making healthy food choices, people sometimes need supplements. For example, All women of childbearing age should get 400 micrograms of folic acid each day from fortified foods or a supplement, in addition to folate from a varied diet.