Location and Function of the Occipital Lobe. The occipital lobe is located in the posterior, or back, region of the cerebrum, superior to, or above, the cerebellum. It's protected by cranial bones, with the primary protective bone being the occipital bone. Instructor: John Williams. The cerebrum is the largest portion of the brain and is responsible for multiple bodily functions. The occipital lobe of the cerebrum is a major structural region. This article discusses the location and function of this key region of the cerebrum.
Location: Bottom, back part of the cortexFunction: Responsible for processing visual information from the eyes. The occiptial lobe is important to being able to correctly understand what your eyes are seeing. These lobes have to be very fast to process the rapid information that our eyes are sending. Similar to how the temporal lobe makes sense of auditory information, the occipital lobe makes sense of visual information so that we are able to understand it. If our occipital lobe was impaired, or injured we would not be able to correctly process visual signals, thus visual confusion would result.
Damage to the primary visual cortex, which is located on the surface of the posterior occipital lobe, can cause blindness due to the holes in the visual map on the surface of the visual cortex that resulted from the lesions. Occipital lobe (red) of left cerebral hemisphere. The two occipital lobes are the smallest of four paired lobes in the human cerebral cortex. Located in the rearmost portion of the skull, the occipital lobes are part of the forebrain.
Well, okay, not actual eyes. But at least there are vsion processors for the information that comes from the eyes. The occipital lobe is at the back of the head, just above the neck. This is the primary projection area for vision. Sensory information comes from the eyes, passes through the LGN, reaches the occipital lobe, is processed and then routed to both the parietal and temporal lobes. 
Occipital Lobes: The occipital lobes are one of the four main lobes or regions of the cerebral cortex. They are positioned at the back region of the cerebral cortex and are the main centers for visual processing. Located within the occipital lobes is the primary visual cortex. This region of the brain receives visual input from the retina. These visual signals are interpreted in the occipital lobes. Function: The occipital lobes are involved in several functions of the body including: 1  Visual Perception. 2  Color Recognition.
Thus, the occipital lobe is defined as the part of the cerebral cortex that lies underneath the occipital bone. (See the human brain article for more information.). The lobes rest on the tentorium cerebelli, a process of dura mater that separates the cerebrum from the cerebellum. Occipital lobe (red) of left cerebral hemisphere. The two occipital lobes are the smallest of four paired lobes in the human cerebral cortex. Located in the rearmost portion of the skull, the occipital lobes are part of the forebrain.
The occipital lobes are the visual processing center of mammalian brains. The primary visual area is Brodmann area 17, located in the interior portion of the occipital lobe at the calcarine sulcus and sometimes continuing onto the surface of the lobe. The lobes' Peristriate regions are the sites for center visuospatial processing, for color discrimination and for discrimination of movement. The front edge of the occipital lobe is separated from the parietal lobe by the Parieto-occipital sulcus. The sides of the lobe merge with the parietal lobes along a vague boundary defined by several lateral occipital gyri, which are separated by lateral 
Occipital Lobe: Region in the back of the brain which processes visual information. Not only is the occipital lobe mainly responsible for visual reception, it also contains association areas that help in the visual recognition of shapes and colors. Damage to this lobe can cause visual deficits. 
The occipital lobe is one of the four major lobes of the cerebral cortex in the brain of mammals. The occipital lobe is the visual processing center of the mammalian brain containing most of the anatomical region of the visual cortex. The primary visual cortex is Brodmann area 17, commonly called V1 (visual one). Occipital lobe (red) of left cerebral hemisphere. The two occipital lobes are the smallest of four paired lobes in the human cerebral cortex. Located in the rearmost portion of the skull, the occipital lobes are part of the forebrain.