Report Abuse. Fatal doses are termed LD50, where 50% of the people (or animals based on weight) will die if they ingest that dose. It is not recommended that a person take more than 3.5 grams of Paracetamol in a 24 hour period. A lethal dose of Paracetamol will cause liver failure. It will be extrememly unpleasant and death would not be immediate. It may take days or weeks to die. Furthermore, liver failure may cause other organ system failure prior to death. 
NAPQI (N-acetyl-p-benzoquinone imine) is a toxic byproduct produced during the xenobiotic metabolism of the analgesic paracetamol (acetaminophen). It is normally produced only in small amounts, and then almost immediately detoxified in the liver. The prognosis is good for paracetamol overdoses if treatment is initiated up to 8 hours after the drug has been taken. Most hospitals stock the antidote (acetylcysteine), which replenishes the liver's supply of glutathione, allowing the NAPQI to be metabolized safely.
Paracetamol/acetaminophen can cause liver damage and other dangerous effects at doses much less than fatal. Death from acetaminophen is very slow and painful. Above 2 gr … ams (2000mg) a day for more than a few days can damage your liver. More than 5 grams at any one time can damage your liver. Many people have reported taking 300, 400 … , even 500mg in a single dose. Depending on your weight/body mass index, height, and history of abuse one can overdose or at least have a heart attack on a dose as little as 90mg. Answer: 150mg should do it unless you weigh more than 250 then maybe more.
However, under some conditions in which NAPQI is not effectively detoxified (usually in case of paracetamol overdose), it causes severe damage to the liver. This becomes apparent 3–4 days after ingestion and may result in death from fulminant liver failure several days after the overdose. The prognosis is good for paracetamol overdoses if treatment is initiated up to 8 hours after the drug has been taken. Most hospitals stock the antidote (acetylcysteine), which replenishes the liver's supply of glutathione, allowing the NAPQI to be metabolized safely.
Paracetamol toxicity is caused by excessive use or overdose of the analgesic drug paracetamol (called acetaminophen in North America). Mainly causing liver injury, paracetamol toxicity is one of the most common causes of poisoning worldwide. Toxicity can also occur when multiple smaller doses within 24 hours exceed these levels. Following a normal dose of 1 gram of paracetamol four times a day for two weeks, patients can expect an increase in alanine transaminase in their liver to typically about three times the normal value.
In animal studies, 70% of hepatic glutathione must be depleted before hepatotoxicity occurs. Toxic dose The toxic dose of paracetamol is highly variable. In adults, single doses above 10 grams or 150 mg/kg have a reasonable likelihood of causing toxicity. To prevent overdoses, one should read medication labels carefully for the presence of paracetamol and check with a pharmacist before using over-the-counter medications. Risk factors for toxicity Chronic excessive ethanol (alcohol) consumption can induce CYP2E1, thus increasing the potential toxicity of paracetamol.
Maximum acetaminophen dosages. Historically, the maximum daily adult dose of acetaminophen is 4 g, with a recommended dosage of 352-650 mg every 4-6 hours or 1 g every 6 hours. In 2012, dosage recommendations changed the maximum daily dose for adults to 3 g, with no more than 650 mg every 6 hours, as needed. Toxic acetaminophen dosages. In adults, an acute ingestion of more than 150 mg/kg or 12 g of acetaminophen is considered a toxic dose and poses a high risk of liver damage. In children, acute ingestion of 250 mg/kg or more poses significant risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity.
The therapeutic dose of Paracetamol (acetaminophen) is 10-20mg/kg of body weight per dose. Simply put, this means that if you weigh about 50kgs. then you need to take in an average of 500mg to 750mg of this medication every 4-6 hours for your fever or pain. The maximum adult dose is up to 2.6grams per day. To prevent overdoses, one should read medication labels carefully for the presence of paracetamol and check with a pharmacist before using over-the-counter medications. Risk factors for toxicity Chronic excessive ethanol (alcohol) consumption can induce CYP2E1, thus increasing the potential toxicity of paracetamol.