Shelton's brother, Richie, died in 1990 when Blake was 14 years old. Blake and Lambert wrote about Richie in Lambert's song,  Over You . The song was named CMA Song of the Year for 2012. It was also named Single Record and Song of the Year at the 2013 Academy of Country Music awards. Blake Shelton received a positive review from Maria Konicki Dinoia of Allmusic, who called Austin tremendously imaginative and praised Shelton for including songs written by Braddock and Conley.
It’s the album’s signature song — one as good as ‘The Baby’ and ‘She Wouldn’t Be Gone,’ his two best weepers up until now. Listen to Blake Shelton, ‘Mine Would Be You’. Next: See the Top 10 Blake Shelton Songs. Filed Under: Blake Shelton Category: Country Music News | Country Songs | Critic's Pick | Reviews. 
Mine Would Be You  is a song recorded by American country music artist Blake Shelton. It was released in July 2013 as the third single from his seventh studio album, Based on a True Story… . The song was written by Jessi Alexander, Connie Harrington and Deric Ruttan. The song is a mid-tempo ballad in which the male asks his lover about her thoughts, with the final verse revealing that she is actually departing him. The song is in the key of C major with a vocal range from G3 to E5. The verses are in alternating measures of 3/4 and 4/4 time signatures.
In addition, …Based on a True Story is nominated for Album of the Year and Shelton is up for both Male Vocalist of the Year and Entertainer of the Year. Related: Inside the world of ACM Entertainer of the Year nominee Blake Shelton. “Mine Would Be You” was written by Jessi Alexander, Connie Harrington and Deric Ruttan. “You’d have to be a fool not to hear that as a great song,” said Scott Hendricks, who produced …Based on a True Story, the 2013 Shelton album on which “Mine Would Be You” first appeared.
“Boys ‘Round Here” will forever be in my head. It’s almost as contagious as “Red Solo Cup’. But Blake Shelton’s back with a brand-new tune, “Mine Would Be You”, and if this song goes #1, it will be Blake Shelton’s 10th straight chart-topper and the longest current number one streak in all of country music. Which really proves why this guy is the reigning CMA Entertainer of the Year.
Nobody can sing a heartbreak song quite like Blake Shelton. And his latest single, ‘Mine Would Be You’ is proof in the pudding. The song is almost classically cliche, that is, until the end…. 
Mine Would Be You debuted at number 37 on the U.S. Billboard Hot Country Songs chart for the week of April 13, 2013. It also appeared at number 42 on the U.S. Billboard Country Airplay chart for the week of August 3, 2013. The song is a mid-tempo ballad in which the male asks his lover about her thoughts, with the final verse revealing that she is actually departing him. The song is in the key of C major with a vocal range from G3 to E5. The verses are in alternating measures of 3/4 and 4/4 time signatures.
In 2005, Shelton met fellow country singer Miranda Lambert at the CMT's 100 Greatest Duets Concert. Lambert also sang background vocals on his cover of Michael Buble 'bublé s, Song, home which became A. no 1 single on The Hot Country songs. chart Blake Shelton received a positive review from Maria Konicki Dinoia of Allmusic, who called Austin tremendously imaginative and praised Shelton for including songs written by Braddock and Conley.
Please try again later. Blake Shelton performs his song, Mine Would Be You in an exclusive live recording session at Electric Lady Studios in New York. Subscribe @ http://goo.gl/8LzoM for The Live Room. Get the new album Based On A True Story... on iTunes: http://smarturl.it/basedonatruestory. More on Blake Shelton: https://www.facebook.com/blakeshelton. https ....