It cost me $1200 in supplies to run electric from my house to my barn. The barn is about the same distance from my house (when trenching) as it is from your house. We rented the trencher and did that ourselves and it was not a big deal. We buried the cable 4 feet down. So total cost was about 1/2 of what your quote is. I had electricity done in my barn for $3000. No trenching for that since it was run from the street and not the house. BUT...not directly from the street. A new line added from the street pole to another pole in our driveway that's 170'
Yes, distance is a factor. In my area you would be looking at $1500-$2000 to have someone install power. Rbow. Nov. 13, 2010, 09:29 AM. We have a barn (also close to house) with underground hook up to the barn (from house breaker panel) and do have to manage loads carefully or it pops the breaker. We ran power out to the ex-run in shed, underground and basically used G's method. The weed burner electric fence is out there, tank heaters in the winter, one light and one fan. We gave it it's own circuit off the house box. I think it cost a couple hundred dollars because we bought a whole roll of wire.
Lyn,a little more info on the subject direct from Rick Defazio of Nova Scotia Power. For new residential service: The first 92 meters of service is free (this typically includes one pole). 92 meters + would be approximately $35.00 per meter (single phase)/ $52 per meter (three phase) Price per meter includes pole costs. 
I have a 36 x 32 Pole barn with second story. I plan on running electric, water and cable to the barn. It is about a 75' run from the Main panel in the house to the barn. I plan on putting in a 100 amp service. All services will be split off the service I already have at the house (sub-panel off my main panel for barn). 
Resolved Question: I want to run an electrical line to my pole barn, which is approximately 150 feet from my house, and approximately 300 feet from the nearest power pole. I already have an additional box in my attached garage, which runs a gas furnace and is connected to two sheds approximately 50 feet away. Kevin is online now. I want to run an electrical line to my pole barn, which is approximately 150 feet from my house, and approximately 300 feet from the nearest power pole.
Permanent Power. PERMANENT POWER is the power that services the house for the life of the house. Once the line is run from the street to your home and connected at the meter box, you can remove your temporary power pole from your site. It is very important that you understand this timeline:
the pole belongs to the power company and will be 150 feet from the barn door. i am building a wood shop and want 200 amp service for equipment. The power company would run the underground to the building here for about $4.75 per foot. They are responsible for the wiring to the meter so it's cheaper to begin with and no responsiblity in the future.
If you’re like a lot of people in an older home, the service is probably 60 amps and underrated. With the large demand for power in today’s home, a minimum of 100 amps is required. Larger homes will require 200 amps or more. Just as a guideline, a 100-amp service will run you around $1000. The 200-amp service will run you another $500, depending on the cost of wire and the area that you live. There are many variables involved, so this is a general price quote. On average, you have to figure $30 - $50 an opening. That means every switch, outlet, light, etc. times that rate. An average two to three bedroom home of 1,600 square feet would run you roughly $1800.00 - $3000.00 for a complete installation.