DEFINITION of 'Investment Banking '. A specific division of banking related to the creation of capital for other companies. Investment banks underwrite new debt and equity securities for all types of corporations. Investment banks also provide guidance to issuers regarding the issue and placement of stock. Next Up.
Investment banking is a type of financial service that focuses on helping companies acquire funds and grow their portfolios. Much of this comes in the form of stock and bonds transfer, but investment capital and wholesale corporate acquisitions are also part of the equation. Some of the consultative activities investment banking firms engage in overlap with those of private brokerages which often give buy-and-sell advice to the companies they represent. Investment banking is typically a much more nuanced service, but many of the basic strategies are the same.
Careers-in-Investment-Banking.com Welcome to a comprehensive web site on investment banking careers. Investment Banks help companies and governments issue securities, help investors purchase securities, manage financial assets, trade securities and provide financial advice. 
An investment banker serves as a facilitator between a company and investors when the company wants to issue stock or bonds. The investment banker assists with pricing financial instruments so as to maximize revenue and with navigating regulatory requirements. The Role of an Investment Banker. Generally speaking, the investment banker will save the company in question time and money by identifying risks associated with a project before the company moves forward.
1 Banks are middlemen between a company that wants to issue new securities and the buying public. 2  Mergers & Acquisitions. 3  Banks advise buyers and sellers on business valuation, negotiation, pricing and structuring of transactions, as well as procedure and implementation. 4  Sales & Trading and Equity Research. 1 Raising Capital & Security Underwriting. 2  Banks are middlemen between a company that wants to issue new securities and the buying public. 3  Mergers & Acquisitions. 4
An investment bank may also assist companies involved in mergers and acquisitions (M&A) and provide ancillary services such as market making, trading of derivatives and equity securities, and FICC services (fixed income instruments, currencies, and commodities). On the behalf of the bank and its clients, a large investment bank's primary function is buying and selling products. In market making, traders will buy and sell financial products with the goal of making money on each trade.
Investment bankers may also provide other services to their clients such as mergers and acquisition advice, or advice on specific transactions, such as a spin-off or reorganization. The Role of an Investment Banker. Generally speaking, the investment banker will save the company in question time and money by identifying risks associated with a project before the company moves forward.
An investment bank is a financial institution that assists individuals, corporations, and governments in raising financial capital by underwriting or acting as the client's agent in the issuance of securities (or both). On the behalf of the bank and its clients, a large investment bank's primary function is buying and selling products. In market making, traders will buy and sell financial products with the goal of making money on each trade.
The two main lines of business in investment banking are called the sell side and the buy side. The  sell side  involves trading securities for cash or for other securities (e.g. facilitating transactions, market-making), or the promotion of securities (e.g. underwriting, research, etc.). On the behalf of the bank and its clients, a large investment bank's primary function is buying and selling products. In market making, traders will buy and sell financial products with the goal of making money on each trade.
An investment banker is an individual who works in a financial institution that is in the business primarily of raising capital for companies, governments and other entities, or who works in a large bank's division that is involved with these activities, often called an investment bank. The Role of an Investment Banker. Generally speaking, the investment banker will save the company in question time and money by identifying risks associated with a project before the company moves forward.