Surroundings [edit | edit source]. Volcano itself, much like most of the other peaks, is dead rock, with approach to the summit often patrolled by wild Argentavis and occasional Mammoths. The surrounding area is filled with dense forests and two rivers; one to the north-west and one to the south. The name Volcano is an unofficial one, used by the community. The in-game location is named an Unknown Region, much like Herbivore Island and the areas under the Obelisks.
Bertha Sutliff. An article published in the Arkansas Gazette on January 15, 1856 created an onslaught of speculation about a volcanic eruption in southeastern Logan County, Arkansas. It wasn't until January 15, 1981, that the Gazette republished the story of the volcano
The discovery of Sunshine was another glittering chapter in the legend of Arkansas' Crater of Diamonds State Park, one of the more unusual public attractions in America. For a $6 fee, visitors can scour the mouth of an ancient volcano in search of a priceless stone. 
From ARK: Survival Evolved Wiki. Volcano is the tallest mountain in the game, located near the centre of the Island, towards the Blue Obelisk. See also Far's Peak which is often confused for a Volcano, due to its flat peak. The name Volcano is an unofficial one, used by the community. The in-game location is named an Unknown Region, much like Herbivore Island and the areas under the Obelisks.
A volcanic arc is a chain of volcanoes formed above a subducting plate, positioned in an arc shape as seen from above. Offshore volcanoes form islands, resulting in a volcanic island arc. Generally they result from the subduction of an oceanic tectonic plate under another tectonic plate, and often parallel an oceanic trench. Volcanoes are present in almost any mountain belt, but this does not make it a volcanic arc. Often there are isolated, but impressively huge volcanoes in a mountain belt. For instance, Vesuvius and the Etna volcanoes in Italy are part of separate but different kinds of mountainous volcanic ensembles.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Yes. Arkansas is the one of four places in North America where diamonds are mined, and the only place open to the public, and the diamonds found there are in a lamproite vein; that is, they are found in an extinct volcanic pipe at the Crater of Diamonds State Park.
Crater of Diamonds State Park is a 911-acre (369 ha) Arkansas state park in Pike County, Arkansas, in the United States. The park features a 37.5-acre (15.2 ha) plowed field, the world's only diamond-bearing site accessible to the public. The Crater of Diamonds volcanic pipe is part of a 95-million-year-old eroded volcano. The deeply sourced lamproite magma, from the upper mantle, brought the diamonds to the surface.
The Jackson Volcano is on the east side of this syncline and the Monroe Uplift, another Cretaceous volcano, is on the west side. They’re kind of symmetrical. Further north is the Murfreesboro, Arkansas Volcano. And then, there’s a buried volcano at the mouth of the Mississippi River called the Door Point Volcano. 
Give it a LIKE! The Volcano in ARK might only work well as a temporary base due to its distance from trees, but it could do that very well and really setting up full-time there is less problematic when you have flying dinosaurs. Let me give you a quick look at what the Volcano in ARK: Survival Evolved looks like! It could make for a pretty cool base location! Enjoy the video?