1 To get to an internet speed testing website, simply type Internet speed test into a search engine and find one that will perform a test for free. 2  There should be plenty of options to choose from. 3  Once you are at an Internet speed testing website, input your geographic location (if necessary) and perform the test. 1 There should be plenty of options to choose from. 2  Once you are at an Internet speed testing website, input your geographic location (if necessary) and perform the test. 3  The test should tell you your download speed as well as your upload speed.
CSS is another place where your pages can be slowed down. Large CSS files with styles that are never used are a waste of bandwidth. Learn how to optimize your CSS with these tips. 1  Put CSS in the document head—use the link tag to point to an external CSS style sheet. As I mention above, images are content, but they are one of the areas that beginning web designers use a lot of space and download time. Learn how to optimize your images. 1  Optimize Images —keep the images small. 2  Do Not Resize Images in HTML or CSS — resize images in an image editor, not with the browser.
Speed Up Your JavaScript. JavaScript and Ajax can make pages slower, especially if you have them load right away. Most scripts are not used until the entire page is loaded, and if they load first that makes the page appear slower. The following JavaScript tips will help you speed up your scripts. As I mention above, images are content, but they are one of the areas that beginning web designers use a lot of space and download time. Learn how to optimize your images. 1  Optimize Images —keep the images small. 2  Do Not Resize Images in HTML or CSS — resize images in an image editor, not with the browser.
Speed Up the Content. The content should make up the majority of your pages. But as the majority of your pages, it is what you should focus on optimizing first. Content includes both text and images. As I mention above, images are content, but they are one of the areas that beginning web designers use a lot of space and download time. Learn how to optimize your images. 1  Optimize Images —keep the images small. 2  Do Not Resize Images in HTML or CSS — resize images in an image editor, not with the browser.
Website Optimization = Web Speed. Web site optimization is the art of transforming your content into a smaller, more streamlined form. This book shows you how to cut your content and bandwidth usage in half, while still maintaining the look you want. Your users will be happier, and you'll save money in the process. With Speed Up Your Site, you will learn how to: 1  Speed site load time to satisfy customers. 2  Engage users with fast response times and flow stimulus. 3  Understand how download delays affect user psychology.
1 Speed Up-Increase the maximum number of connections and various other settings that may improve the time it takes to download all elements of a web page to your local system. 2  Internet Explorer users can use Tweak IE for that, Firefox users FasterFox and Google Chrome users FastestChrome. 1 Web Proxy-A web proxy can be one of the easiest options to access a slow loading or blocked website. 2  You find a large selection of proxy servers over at Proxy.org which you can try out. 3  Keep in mind though that you direct all traffic through that site, at least in the browser tab that you have opened the proxy in
Lets take a look at some of the options: 1  Disable chrome://chrome/settings/. 2  Speed Up-Increase the maximum number of connections and various other settings that may improve the time it takes to download all elements of a web page to your local system. 1 Web Proxy-A web proxy can be one of the easiest options to access a slow loading or blocked website. 2  You find a large selection of proxy servers over at Proxy.org which you can try out. 3  Keep in mind though that you direct all traffic through that site, at least in the browser tab that you have opened the proxy in
To change these settings: 1  In Firefox, go to Tools Options Privacy. 2  In Internet Explorer, go to Tools Internet Options Browsing History and make sure Delete browsing history on exit is not checked. 3  For more controlled deletion, go to Delete… and make sure Preserve favorite website data is checked. 1
To change these settings: 1  In Firefox, go to Tools Options Privacy. 2  In Internet Explorer, go to Tools Internet Options Browsing History and make sure Delete browsing history on exit is not checked. 3  In Chrome, go to Tools Settings, scroll down, then go to Show Advanced Settings Privacy Content Settings. 1 In Firefox, go to Tools Options Privacy. 2  In Internet Explorer, go to Tools Internet Options Browsing History and make sure Delete browsing history on exit is not checked. 3  For more controlled deletion, go to Delete… and make sure Preserve favorite website data is checked.