Acrylic is a useful, clear plastic that resembles glass, but has properties that make it superior to glass in many ways. Common brands of high-grade acrylic include Polycast, Lucite and Plexiglass. There are two basic types of acrylic: extruded and cell cast. Extruded or continuous cast acrylic is made by a less expensive process, is softer, can scratch easier and may contain impurities.
The lucite brand of acrylics was first developed back in the 1930s. It was the DuPont Chemical Company that first introduced this type of acrylic or so-called plastic glass. Other companies, meanwhile, were able to create a similar PMMA-based material and labeled them with different trade names. Lucite products are made from PMMA, or polymethylmethacrylate, and this ingredient is typically used to create alternative materials to standard glass and plastic. Lucite materials and products are transparent, similar to standard glass, but have plastic-like properties since they cannot be broken or shattered.
1. Acrylic is a plastic that resembles glass.   2. There are two basic types of acrylic.   3. Acrylic is half the weight of glass.   4. The process to make polymet … hyl methacrylate was determined in  1877.   5.Acrylic plastics are recognized for optical clarity and weather  resistance
Although not a type of familiar silica-based glass, the substance, like many thermoplastics, is often technically classified as a type of glass (in that it is a non-crystalline vitreous substance) hence its occasional historic designation as acrylic glass. This article is about the transparent plastic sometimes called acrylic glass. For the glass/plastic laminate often called safety glass, see Laminated glass. For the neurotoxic designer drug PMMA, commonly sold as MDMA, see para-Methoxy-N-methylamphetamine. For other uses, see Acrylic (disambiguation) .
Acrylic is a useful and clear plastic that resembles glass, but has properties that make it superior to glass in many ways. Acrylic is a plastic that resembles glass.   2. There are two basic types of acrylic.   3. Acrylic is half the weight of glass.   4. The process to make polymet … hyl methacrylate was determined in  1877.   5.Acrylic plastics are recognized for optical clarity and weather  resistance
With its combined transparency and durability, lucite is still used for a variety of reasons today. Lucite is a brand of acrylic glass that basically combines the good features of both glass and plastic. Its clarity is said to be similar to glass, and its durability is similar to the highest quality plastic. Many people prefer acrylics like lucite because of its quality and versatility. Lucite products are made from PMMA, or polymethylmethacrylate, and this ingredient is typically used to create alternative materials to standard glass and plastic. Lucite materials and products are transparent, similar to standard glass, but have plastic-like properties since they cannot be broken or shattered.
The most common acrylic plastic is polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA), which is sold under the brand names of Plexiglas, Lucite, Perspex, and Crystallite. PMMA is a tough, highly transparent material with excellent resistance to ultraviolet radiation and weathering. It can be colored, molded, cut, drilled, and formed. Acrylic is a plastic that resembles glass.   2. There are two basic types of acrylic.   3. Acrylic is half the weight of glass.   4. The process to make polymet … hyl methacrylate was determined in  1877.   5.Acrylic plastics are recognized for optical clarity and weather  resistance
Poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA), also known as acrylic or acrylic glass as well as by the trade names Plexiglas, Acrylite, Lucite, and Perspex among several others (see below), is a transparent thermoplastic often used in sheet form as a lightweight or shatter-resistant alternative to glass. This article is about the transparent plastic sometimes called acrylic glass. For the glass/plastic laminate often called safety glass, see Laminated glass. For the neurotoxic designer drug PMMA, commonly sold as MDMA, see para-Methoxy-N-methylamphetamine. For other uses, see Acrylic (disambiguation) .
These 10 animal facts will amaze you. The term acrylic is used for products that contain a substance derived from acrylic acid or a related compound. Most often, it is used to describe a clear, glass-like plastic known as poly(methyl) methacrylate (PMMA). Yes, Acrylic nails are made from Acrylic, surprisingly. Acrylic itself doesn't damage your nails, but the bonding agent (glue) might. Re: Rust Resistance. Acrylic is not a metal, it is a polymer, it doesn't corrode.