High School. Mechanics typically need a high school degree to find jobs. While in high school, they should take courses in automotive repair, electronics, computers, mathematics and English. Candidates also should work on honing personal qualities needed for the job, such as customer service and communication skills. For those wanting an in-depth education, two-year associate degrees are also available from tech schools and community colleges. The longer training period will help prepare mechanics to work on a wider range of vehicle systems, such as brakes, climate control, steering and suspension and electronics.
The following is by and according to the U.S. Department of Labor and particular to the education and training required for a registered nurse.   The three major educationa … l paths to registered nursing are a bachelor's degree, an associate degree, and a diploma from an approved nursing program. Nurses most commonly enter the occupation by completing an associate degree or bachelor's degree program.
In many ways, mechanics keep the world moving. There are mechanics for cars, semis, buses, trains, and planes. There are specialized mechanics for nearly every vehicle and machine that has gears, spark plugs, oil, and pistons. People interested in becoming a mechanic can go far with specialized training and degrees. An individual interested in a career in mechanics can start their education in high school by taking auto shop or mechanics courses. There are some high schools that offer an advanced courses in mechanics, covering electronics and diagnostics. These courses are called the Automotive Youth Educational System (AYES).
1. You usually need a university degree in mechanical engineering or in a related field of engineering. 2. You may also need a master's degree or doctorate in a related engineering field. 3. You need a licence from a provincial/territorial association of professional engineers to approve engineering drawings/reports and to practise as a professional engineer (P. Eng.)
A college degree isn’t required for this occupation, although most aircraft mechanics obtain at least 18 months of training from an educational program accredited by the FAA. Associate and bachelor's degree programs are available in disciplines related to aviation technology and management. Aircraft mechanics keep careful records of their work, which are often inspected by the FAA. Aircraft mechanics obtain education, on-the-job training or a degree to get started in this career.
Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a mechanic. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about education, job duties and on-the-job training to find out if this is the career for you. View 10 Popular Schools ». While it takes only one certification to become a mechanic, multiple certifications offer more advantages and opportunities. One can become a master mechanic by being certified in all eight automotive specialty areas.
1. In general, you usually need a high school diploma. 2. You usually need a college program in aircraft maintenance or a four-year apprenticeship program. 3. To be an aircraft mechanic, you need several years' on-the-job training. 4.
Certification is required to be a mechanic. The National Institute for Automotive Service Excellence (ASE) is an organization that offers certification in eight specialty areas for auto mechanics, including engine restoration, heating and air-conditioning, electrical structures, brake systems and steering. While it takes only one certification to become a mechanic, multiple certifications offer more advantages and opportunities. One can become a master mechanic by being certified in all eight automotive specialty areas.