Some people consider Wrexham a difficult test centre to pass at. ADI's (Approved Driving Instructors) in your area are currently using these routes. Using your Wrexham driving test centre routes will help you to practise the skills you've learnt in your driving lessons. The examiners at Wrexham are very fair and it all depends on how well you drive during your test.
There is no upper age limit. In addition to a driving licence, a CBT certificate may be required before a moped or motorcycle is ridden. In GB around 1.6 million people sit the practical car test per year, with a pass rate of around 43%, the theory test has a pass rate of around 51.6%. 
THE DRIVING TEST IN Wrexham. There are two practical driving test centres in Wrexham. A centre that conducts tests for cars and a test centre that conducts tests for lorries, large vehicles (LGV) and buses, and car and trailers. The LGV test centre contact address details are featured further down this page. Wrexham Driving Test Centre for cars is situated around challenging test routes. The driving test from Wrexham Driving Test Centre will take from 30 to 40 minutes and include independent driving for around 10 minutes. Knowing each and every test route isn’t essential, though gaining an understanding of the particularly difficult areas of the test routes often proves beneficial.
If you hesitate in a rural area, no one really notices as three cars are a queue.. Figures from DVSA for 2013 to 2014 show that while the average pass rate was 47.1%, you were almost 15 percentage points more likely to fail if you took your test in Belvedere in the London borough of Bexley. 
The national pass rate, and so the average pass rate, for males is 49.1% and for females 42.8%. For pass rates relating to test centres with postcodes N to Z. To view the full postal address of each driving test centre. 
Driving Test Pass Rates. Listed are the UK driving test centre pass rates for 2014. These driving test centre pass rates were last updated in December 2014. Compared to the driving test pass rates of 2011, a significant number of test centres have gained a higher driving test pass rate in the 2014 / 2015 statistics. The 2014 driving test pass rates listed below represent official Driver and Vehicle Standards agency (DVSA) statistics for each of the UK driving test centres. A driving test can be booked and taken at any DVSA practical driving test centre and is not dependent on the location of your residency, or the address on your provisional driving licence. A test centres pass rate may influence where you wish to take your test. 2015 test pass statistics will be updated shortly.
Driving test pass rates continue to rise in the UK with 2013/14 recording the highest level of test passes for seven years, according to Department for Transport (DfT) figures. In total, 47.1 per cent of learner drivers taking their driving test passed, although the total number of tests actually conducted is falling. Barrow-in-Furness, Cumbria has the highest pass rate outside of Scotland – 65.5 percent – followed by Whitby, North Yorkshire – 65.4 per cent. • History of the UK driving test. The test centre where you’re least likely to pass is Belvedere, London where almost 70 per cent go home empty handed.
The DSA revealed that the overall pass rate for Wales was 49% – 5% more than the average in England. Mike Dykes, who runs the Progress School of Motoring in Rhyl, said some of the North Wales test routes were notoriously hard. He said: “It definitely does seem harder to pass in these areas. 
Image caption The theory test pass rate has dropped from 70% to 50%. Changes to the driving theory test have led to pass rates falling by almost a third, according to new figures. Six years ago, seven out of 10 theory tests were passed. The pass rate for the practical test has increased slightly since 2007-08, from 44.2 to 47.1%. Males are around 6% more likely to pass the practical test than females. Females are around 6% more likely to pass the theory test than males.