Iggy Azalea was born Amethyst Amelia Kelly, in Sydney, Australia. Her family later relocated to Mullumbimby, New South Wales, when she was still an infant, into a house on 12 acres that her father built by hand from mud bricks. 
Her father, Brendan Kelly, was a painter and comic artist, while her mother, Tanya, cleaned holiday houses and hotels. Azalea lived in a house that her father built by hand from mud-bricks, surrounded by 5 hectares (12 acres) of land. According to Azalea, she has some Aboriginal (Indigenous Australian) ancestry: My family came to Australia on the First Fleet. My family's been in that country for a long time, over 100 years. If your family's lived in Australia for a long time, everyone has a little bit of [Aborigine blood].
He sat, enraptured by her performance, yelling, “Iggy!” utterly oblivious to the look of chagrin and dismay on my face, as I, too, tuned in to watch this white girl from Australia, turned ATL-style rapper, caricature everything I love about Southern Hip Hop. It is the oldest race tale on American soil, remixed for a new era. And I ain’t got no love for that. Updated, 7/17/14: In the initial version of this post, a hyperlink to a story by blogger Bene Bené viera appeared in the wrong. spot
Born in Sydney and raised in Mullumbimby, Azalea moved to the United States at the age of 16 to pursue a career in hip hop music, residing in the southern part of the country. She earned public recognition after releasing YouTube music videos for her songs  Pu$$y  and Two Times. According to Azalea, she has some Aboriginal (Indigenous Australian) ancestry: My family came to Australia on the First Fleet. My family's been in that country for a long time, over 100 years. If your family's lived in Australia for a long time, everyone has a little bit of [Aborigine blood].
Iggy Pop. by ethnic on. Birth Name: James Newell Osterberg, Jr. Birth Place: Muskegon, Michigan, United States. Birth Date: April 21, 1947. Ethnicity: *Irish, English (father) *Danish, Norwegian (mother). Iggy Pop is an American musician. His father, who was of Irish and English descent, was raised by Minnie Josephine Osterberg; Minnie was born in Illinois, to Swedish parents, Carl J. Hendrick Osterberg and Mathilda Helstrom. Iggy’s maternal grandparents were Harold Legart Christensen and Ragnhild K. Hansen (the daughter of Ole Hansen and Mathilda). Harold was born in Copenhagen, Denmark. 
Iggy Azalea is not a mastermind of this specific system of racial inequality, but that doesn’t negate the toxicity of her role. Iggy Azalea was born Amethyst Amelia Kelly in New South Wales. A white, Australian, female recording artist and model, the woman now known as Iggy is currently the female rapper with the longest-leading number one single on the Billboard Hot 100. 
As an Australian female rapper Iggy Azalea knows a thing or two about being a minority in hip hop, which may point to why she disagrees with Scarface 's claims that the music is being whitewashed. 
Mini Bio (1). Iggy Azalea was born Amethyst Amelia Kelly, in Sydney, Australia. Her family later relocated to Mullumbimby, New South Wales, when she was still an infant, into a house on 12 acres that her father built by hand from mud bricks. 
Iggy Azalea. by me on. Birth Name: Amethyst Amelia Kelly. Place of Birth: Sydney, Australia. Date of Birth: 7 June, 1990. Ethnicity: Irish, Anglo Australian. Iggy Azalea is an Australian hip-hop recording artist, songwriter, and model. Her surname is generally Irish. She has also stated, “My family came to Australia on the First Fleet. My family’s been in that country for a long time, over 100 years
Amethyst Amelia Kelly (born 7 June 1990), better known by her stage name Iggy Azalea (/əˈzeɪljə/), is an Australian rapper, songwriter, and model. According to Azalea, she has some Aboriginal (Indigenous Australian) ancestry: My family came to Australia on the First Fleet. My family's been in that country for a long time, over 100 years. If your family's lived in Australia for a long time, everyone has a little bit of [Aborigine blood].