Oral polio vaccine (OPV) is an attenuated vaccine, produced by the passage of the virus through non-human cells at a sub-physiological temperature, which produces spontaneous mutations in the viral genome. Oral polio vaccines were developed by several groups, one of which was led by Albert Sabin. Other groups, led by Hilary Koprowski and H.R. Cox, developed their own attenuated vaccine strains. In 1958, the National Institutes of Health created a special committee on live polio vaccines.
Two polio vaccines are used throughout the world to provide immunity to the virus that causes poliomyelitis (or polio). The first was developed by Jonas Salk through the use of HeLa cells and first tested in 1952. Oral polio vaccines were developed by several groups, one of which was led by Albert Sabin. Other groups, led by Hilary Koprowski and H.R. Cox, developed their own attenuated vaccine strains. In 1958, the National Institutes of Health created a special committee on live polio vaccines.
Since the introduction of the polio vaccine in 1955, the disease has been eradicated in the U.S. But the disease is still common in some developing countries and until it is eradicated worldwide, the risk of it spreading to the U.S. still exists. If you had the polio vaccination prior to 2000, you may have received the oral polio vaccine (OPV), which was made from a live poliovirus. Although the live virus vaccine was highly effective at protecting against polio, a few cases of polio per year were caused by the oral vaccine itself.
Poliomyelitis Vaccine. I don't think they're are any other names to it than that and the Polio Vaccine. It can be done by OPV (Oral Polio Vaccine) or through inoculation (De … ad Polio Virus is injected into your body). This immunization is known to have side effects
Polio is caused by one of three types of poliovirus, which are members of the Enterovirus genus. In about 95% of all polio cases, the person has no symptoms at all. These are known as asymptomatic cases. The rest of polio cases can be divided into three types: abortive polio, non-paralytic polio, and paralytic polio. 
There are two types of vaccine that protect against polio: inactivated poliovirus vaccine (IPV) and oral poliovirus vaccine (OPV). IPV is given as an injection in the leg or arm, depending on the patient's age. Polio vaccine may be given at the same time as other vaccines. Most people should get polio vaccine when they are children. Children get 4 doses of IPV at these ages: 2 months, 4 months, 6-18 months, and a booster dose at 4-6 years. OPV has not been used in the United States since 2000 but is still used in many parts of the world
Poliomyelitis, shortened, became polio. For a time, polio was called infantile paralysis, though it did not affect only the young. Cause of Polio. Polio is caused by one of three types of poliovirus (which are members of the Enterovirus genus). These viruses spread through contact between people, by nasal and oral secretions, and by contact with contaminated feces. 
Most people should get the polio vaccine when they are children. Children should be vaccinated with four doses of IPV at the following ages: 1  A dose at 2 months. 2  A dose at 4 months. 3  A dose at 6-18 months. 4  A booster dose at 4-6 years. If you had the polio vaccination prior to 2000, you may have received the oral polio vaccine (OPV), which was made from a live poliovirus. Although the live virus vaccine was highly effective at protecting against polio, a few cases of polio per year were caused by the oral vaccine itself.
The Salk vaccine, or inactivated poliovirus vaccine (IPV), is based on three wild, virulent reference strains, Mahoney (type 1 poliovirus), MEF-1 (type 2 poliovirus), and Saukett (type 3 poliovirus), grown in a type of monkey kidney tissue culture (Vero cell line), which are then inactivated with formalin. Oral polio vaccines were developed by several groups, one of which was led by Albert Sabin. Other groups, led by Hilary Koprowski and H.R. Cox, developed their own attenuated vaccine strains. In 1958, the National Institutes of Health created a special committee on live polio vaccines.
Most children get four doses of polio vaccine on this schedule: First dose when they are 2 months old. Second dose when they are 4 months old. Third dose when they are 6 to 18 months old. Last dose when they are 4 to 6 years old. Polio vaccine can be given as all shots (IPV), all drops (OPV), or a combination of both. A vaccine is a medicine you take to keep you from getting a disease. The polio vaccine comes in two forms. Inactivated polio vaccine (called IPV) is given by injection (a “shot”). Oral polio vaccine (called OPV) is given by drops in the mouth.