If you have ever lived next door to an excavation or demolition site in a city, you probably know these little guys all too well. Here are eight facts about Norway rats that might help you to prevent or cope with an infestation. 1. The scientific name for a Norway rat is Rattus norvegicus. They are commonly referred to as rats, brown rats, sewer rats, and wharf rats.. 2. Norway rats are not really from Norway. 
Identification. The Norway rat has many names. It is often referred to as the brown rat, common rat, sewer rat, Hanover rat, Norway rat, Brown Norway rat, Norwegian rat, or wharf rat. Rats have coarse fur that is usually dark grey or brown on the backside and light grey or brown on the underside. 
The Norway rat (Rattus norvegicus, Fig. 1) is a stocky burrowing rodent, unintentionally introduced into North America by settlers who arrived on ships from Europe. Also called the brown rat, house rat, barn rat, sewer rat, gray rat, or wharf rat, it is a slightly larger animal than the roof rat (Fig. 2). Adult Norway rats weigh an average of 1 pound (454 g). Their fur is coarse and usually brownish or reddish gray above and whitish gray on the belly.
Now there is a mystery about the native country of the best known species of rat, the common brown rat. It is frequently called, in books and otherwise, the 'Norway rat', and it is said to have been imported into this country in a ship-load of timber from Norway. Originally called the Hanover rat by people wishing to link problems in 18th century England with the House of Hanover, it is not known for certain why the brown rat is named Rattus norvegicus (Norwegian rat), as it did not originate
For the roller coaster, see Sewer Rat (roller coaster) . The brown rat, also referred to as common rat, street rat, sewer rat, Hanover rat, Norway rat, brown Norway rat, Norwegian rat, or wharf rat (Rattus norvegicus) is one of the best known and most common rats. Originally called the Hanover rat by people wishing to link problems in 18th century England with the House of Hanover, it is not known for certain why the brown rat is named Rattus norvegicus (Norwegian rat), as it did not originate from Norway.
The classic definition of a species is a group of related individuals or populations which are potentially capable of interbreeding and producing fertile offspring. There are many different species of rodent in the wild that bear the common name rat.. Naked mole rats, wood rats, kangaroo rats, cotton rats, pack rats, and many others are examples of different species. 
The best-known rat species are the black rat (Rattus rattus) and the brown rat (Rattus norvegicus). The group is generally known as the Old World rats or true rats, and originated in Asia. Rats are bigger than most Old World mice, which are their relatives, but seldom weigh over 500 grams (1.1 lb) in the wild. The term rat is also used in the names of other small mammals which are not true rats. Examples include the North American pack rats, a number of species loosely called kangaroo rats, and others.
True rats are members of the genus Rattus, the most important of which to humans are the black rat, Rattus rattus, and the brown rat, Rattus norvegicus. Many members of other rodent genera and families are also referred to as rats, and share many characteristics with true rats. The term rat is also used in the names of other small mammals which are not true rats. Examples include the North American pack rats, a number of species loosely called kangaroo rats, and others.