Louisiana iris is a taxonomic group (Iris ser. Hexagonae) of five iris species native to Louisiana and surrounding regions of the southeastern United States: Iris fulva, Iris hexagona, Iris brevicaulis, Iris giganticaerulea, and Iris nelsonii. The red color of the fulva contributes to the red modern hybrids found in the surrounding habitats that the iris thrives. It is found in Louisiana, along with other Mississippi Valley habaitats in Illinois, Kentucky, and Ohio.
Iris is a genus of 260–300 species of flowering plants with showy flowers. It takes its name from the Greek word for a rainbow, which is also the name for the Greek goddess of the rainbow, Iris. Some authors state that the name refers to the wide variety of flower colors found among the many species.
Description: The Pacific Coast Hybrid Iris are some of our most popular plants, with good reason. Equal in beauty to any Iris found elsewhere, elegant flowers in a broad range of colors grace the clumps of evergeen foliage in spring. 
1 Bearded irises must not be shaded by other plants; many do best in a special bed on their own. 2  Soil drainage is very important. 3  Loosen the soil with a tiller or garden fork to a depth of 12 to 15 inches, then mix in a 2- to 4-inch layer of compost. 4  Plant iris in mid-to late summer. When we plant iris rhizomes, we dig a hole about 4 to 5 inches deep. Build a small mound of soil in the middle of the hole. Center the rhizome on top of the soil mound and let the roots fall over either side of the mound. Cover the roots with soil so the rhizome is just slightly exposed.
Today, there are thousands and thousands of Tall Bearded Iris hybrids, with new ones every year. Before World War II, most new hybrids came from Europe, but since, it has been an American passion. Today, the trade is led by the famous Shreiner's Iris Nursery in Oregon and others. Growing Bearded Irises. Bearded Irises have been popular forever, and no wonder. They are very easy to grow, and, especially in recent years, put on one of the truly great flower shows in the garden. Bearded Iris bloom is in “late spring,” after the tulips and daffodils, and often with oriental poppies and peonies.
Many of these are water irises; some are not. The water iris varieties can be grown in marshy ground, at the edge of pools, directly in shallow water, or even under normal garden conditions if given extra water, particularly in the spring before bloom and during dry summers. Included in the water iris varieties are lavigatas, setosas, versicolors, virginicas, and some interspecies hybrids. Check individual descriptions for those adaptable to water or marshy conditions.
Many gardeners are familiar with the colorful Pacific Coast iris hybrids available at nurseries in the spring. There is a member of the Pacific Coast iris group that may have escaped gardeners' attention: Iris douglasiana, commonly referred to as Douglas iris. 
Iris is the flower of the Greek goddess Iris who is the messenger of Love. In the language of flowers Iris symbolizes eloquence. Irises are wonderful garden plants. The word Iris means rainbow. Irises come in many colors such as blue and purple, white and yellow, pink and orange, brown and red, and even black. The genus Iris has about 200 species and is native to the North Temperate regions of the world. The habitat of irises also varies a lot. 
As well as being the scientific name, iris is also very widely used as a common name for all Iris species, as well as some belonging to other closely related genera. A common name for some species is 'flags', while the plants of the subgenus Scorpiris are widely known as ' junos ', particularly in horticulture. It takes its name from the Greek word for a rainbow, which is also the name for the Greek goddess of the rainbow, Iris. Some authors state that the name refers to the wide variety of flower colors found among the many species.