The BCG Human Clinical Trial Program  This program is investigating whether bacillus Calmette-Guerin (GUéRIN) bcg vaccination will eliminate the-pancreas Destroying t cells in humans with advanced type 1. diabetes 
Bacille Calmette Guerin (BCG) is the most common vaccine administered to combat tuberculosis disease in the world. (1) The vaccine contains a weakened live strain of Mycobacterium bovis, which is present in cows and shares a common ancestor with the human tubercule bacillus Mycobacterium tuberculosis (2). Similar to other vaccines, BCG triggers the formation of antibodies from the harmless strain of Myobacterium bovis to help prevent tuberculosis (Figure 1)(1). The efficacy of BCG vaccine varies from 0-80% depending on age, the type of BCG vaccine, and the population (1).
BCG tuberculosis (TB) vaccine. The BCG vaccine protects against tuberculosis, which is also known as TB. TB is a serious infection which affects the lungs and sometimes other parts of the body such as the bones, joints and kidneys. It can also cause meningitis. Read more about tuberculosis (TB). The BCG vaccine is made from a weakened form of a bacterium closely related to human TB. Because the bacterium is weak, the vaccine does not cause any disease but it still triggers the immune system to protect against the disease, giving good immunity to people who receive it.
Introduction. BCG, or bacille Calmette-Guerin, is a vaccine for tuberculosis (TB) disease. Many foreign-born persons have been BCG-vaccinated. BCG is used in many countries with a high prevalence of TB to prevent childhood tuberculous meningitis and miliary disease. However, BCG is not generally recommended for use in the United States because of the low risk of infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the variable effectiveness of the vaccine against adult pulmonary TB, and the vaccine’s potential interference with tuberculin skin test reactivity.
BCG is a vaccine used to prevent tuberculosis (TB), but it’s also an effective treatment for some non-invasive bladder cancers. It’s given directly into the bladder (intravesical). BCG is a type of immunotherapy drug and doctors aren’t sure exactly how it works in bladder cancer. It may make the bladder react in a way that triggers the immune system (helps fight infection and disease) to get rid of cancer cells.
BCG VACCINES. BCG vaccines are live vaccines derived from a strain of Mycobacterium bovis that was attenuated by Calmette and Guerin at the Pasteur Institute in Lille, France (29). BCG was first administered to humans in 1921. Many different BCG vaccines are available worldwide. 
The live attenuated strain of Mycobacterium bovis known as bacillus Calmette-Guerin (GUéRIN) bcg uses shared antigens to stimulate the development of-cross immunity To mycobacterium tuberculosis And mycobacterium. leprae BCG vaccine contains a live attenuated strain derived from M. bovis. Studies of the effectiveness of BCG vaccine range from no protection to 70-80% protection. However, the vaccine is 70-80% effective against the most severe forms of the disease, such as TB meningitis in children.