In January 2008, ETA stated that its call for independence is similar to that of the Kosovo status and Scotland. In the week of 8 September 2008, two Basque political parties were banned by a Spanish court for their secretive links to ETA. In fact, the ETA announcement reinforced the struggle for the Basque homeland, but through the use of democratic means. It is crucial to understand that this event may not alter the goals of the Basque separatist movement, but will change the method of the fight for a more autonomous state.
: the 7th letter of the Greek alphabet — see alphabet table. See eta defined for kids. 
A derogatory term used by the Japanese to refer to the Burakumin in the feudal era. Burakumin were a Japanese social minority group. The burakumin are one of the main minority groups in Japan, along with the Ainu of Hokkaido, the Ryukyuans of Okinawa and Japanese residents of Korean and Chinese descent.
Eta (η, η) is the seventh letter of the Greek alphabet. 1 Eta, derogatory term for the Burakumin in the Japanese feudal era. ' 2 eta, a letter or glottal stop in the Tahitian languages. 3  Eta, a snack food brand owned by Griffin's Foods. 4  Estimated time of arrival, frequently abbreviated to ETA.
ETA – ETA SA is a producer of mechanical and quartz watch movements – in fact, they’re at the top of the heap in this regard. They produce and sell movements to many major watch firms. They have purchased and own several other companies whose names are sometimes still used, such as Lemania and Valjoux. 
Link to this slang definition. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation. 
2. eta-the 7th letter of the Greek alphabet. Greek alphabet-the alphabet used by ancient Greeks. alphabetic character, letter of the alphabet, letter-the conventional characters of the alphabet used to represent speech; his grandmother taught him his letters. Translations. Noun. 1. ETA-a terrorist organization organized in 1959 by student activists who were dissatisfied with the moderate nationalism of the traditional Basque party; want to create an independent homeland in Spain's western Pyrenees; in 1968 ETA launched a campaign of political assassinations of government officials.
On 5 September 2010, ETA declared a new ceasefire that is still in force – on 20 October 2011 ETA announced a definitive cessation of its armed activity. On 24 November 2012, it was reported that the group was ready to negotiate a definitive end to its operations and disband completely. In fact, the ETA announcement reinforced the struggle for the Basque homeland, but through the use of democratic means. It is crucial to understand that this event may not alter the goals of the Basque separatist movement, but will change the method of the fight for a more autonomous state.
a terrorist organization organized in 1959 by student activists who were dissatisfied with the moderate nationalism of the traditional Basque party; want to create an independent homeland in Spain's western Pyrenees. see more on Definitions.net ». 