Bake Until Opaque and Flaky. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F for fillets or 350 degrees F for a dressed fish. You can bake the fillets at a lower temperature, if desired, but remember to increase the cooking time. Bake salmon fillets or steaks, uncovered, for 4 to 6 minutes per 1/2-inch thickness. For a dressed salmon, bake for 6 to 9 minutes per 8 ounces of fish. To test for doneness, insert a fork into the salmon and gently twist. The salmon is done as soon as it begins to flake. Be sure to test at the minimum ba
Directions. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Season salmon with salt and pepper. Place salmon, skin side down, on a non-stick baking sheet or in a non-stick pan with an oven-proof handle. Bake until salmon is cooked through, about 12 to 15 minutes. Serve with the Toasted Almond Parsley Salad and squash, if desired. Mince the shallot and add to a small bowl.
1 Set heat to 425 convection-bake (must use a hot oven). 2  Bake the salmon for 20 minutes or until cooked (do not turn the salmon, the cooking time will vary depending on the size of your fillets). 3  Serve the cooked fillets with lemon wedges. 1 Place a well-greased rack into a greased baking dish and set the salmon (skin-side down) onto the rack. 2  Sprinkle the top of the fillets with seasoning salt. 3  At this point you can cover an refrigerate until ready to bake. 4 
1 Place salmon skin-side down on foil. 2  Spread a thin layer of mustard on the top of each fillet, and season with salt and pepper. 3  Top with bread crumbs, then drizzle with melted butter. 4  Bake in a preheated oven for 15 minutes, or until salmon flakes easily with a fork. 
Place the salmon in the roasting pan: Place the salmon in the roasting pan, skin-side down. Transfer to the oven. Roast for 4 to 6 minutes per half-inch thickness of salmon: Roasting time depends on the thickness of your salmon, as determined by the thickest part of the salmon fillet. For every half-inch of salmon, roast 4 to 6 minutes — 4 minutes will give you salmon that is still a touch rare, 6 minutes will thoroughly cook it. Salmon is done when easily flaked: You can also check the doneness of your salmon with a fork.
Place the bag with the marinade and salmon fillets in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. 1  Salmon, like all fish, is not as dense as red meats and poultry. 2  As a result, it does not need to be marinaded for long in order to absorb flavor. 3  Remove the salmon from the refrigerator at least 10 minutes prior to cooking. Place the bag with the marinade and salmon fillets in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. 1  Salmon, like all fish, is not as dense as red meats and poultry. 2
10 Minutes Per Inch. Bake salmon in a preheated, 425 degree Fahrenheit oven for 10 minutes per inch of thickness. Many salmon fillets are around an inch thick, so plan on baking it for around 10 minutes. Turn the filet halfway through, cooking 5 minutes per inch on each side. 
The best way to cook the thicker fillets is to use 400° as the set temperature and bake the fish for 18-20 minutes. If a lower heat is desired, season the fillet and wrap it in foil, sealing it tightly and bake at 350° for about 25-30 minutes. ● Thin Fillet. When baking a tail wrapped in foil, use 375° as the heat setting and bake the fish for 20-22 minutes. ● Salmon Steak. Steaks of course are much thicker than a fillet. For each 1″ of thickness, figure on 10 minutes of baking time.