A Physician Recruiter earns an average salary of $54,699 per year. People in this job generally don't have more than 20 years' experience. A physician recruiter usually works for a recruiting agency. The recruiter helps to fill physician positions that are needed at a hospital or a medical office. Developing strategies relating to recruitment may necessary, as they can be used by the recruiting department.
Recruiters are often compensated based on the salary of the employee they are recruiting, so working with highly-paid professionals like physicians means you are close to the top of the recruiter totem pole. As their title suggests, physician recruiters place doctors in temporary and permanent positions. Health insurance companies and hospital groups, as well as recruitment firms, hire physician recruiters. Foreign physician recruitment is a growth area in the industry, so make sure to apply to recruitment firms that have cropped up to fill this niche.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Physician Recruiter in the United States is $70,676 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Physician Recruiter in the United States are expected to make less than $70,676. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $70,676. Recruits qualified physicians for medical staff and assists and coordinates the development of strategic and comprehensive physician recruitment plans in accordance with the needs and goals of the employer and staff. Performs initial interviews to determine candidate suitability for placement.
The amount of money that a physician recruiters makes varies depending mainly on level of experience and employer. On average, they make about $71,000. Army recruiters get nothing extra for a person who enlists into the Army, they do not work on compensation, no bonuses nothing. Recruiters do receive an extra $450.00 a month … to offset the difference from living on a Military Installation and having to live off the civilian economy while in Recruiting.
National Averages. As of November, 2010, PayScale reports the average annual amount earned by physician recruiters varies from $43,281 to $68,829. Of these, 87 percent received health benefits and 81 percent received dental benefits. Education and experience are factors that may affect the amount a physician recruiter makes. A bachelor's degree and work experience are often requirements. Some jobs pay salary with a commission and bonuses, according to PayScale.
the salary for someone with the job title physician recruiter in dallas tx varies depending on a number of factors this chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of physician recruiter in dallas tx that make less than that salary for example 50 % of the people who perform the job of physician recruiter in dallas are expected to make less than the median source hr reported data as of october 2015
As of November, 2010, PayScale reports the average annual amount earned by physician recruiters varies from $43,281 to $68,829. Education and experience are factors that may affect the amount a physician recruiter makes. A bachelor's degree and work experience are often requirements. Some jobs pay salary with a commission and bonuses, according to PayScale.
Physician recruiters' salaries vary according to where they are employed. Salary Expert notes that of November 2010, physician recruiters earn as much as $113,963 annually in New York, New York. Lower salaries included Indianapolis, Indiana at $71,798. Education and experience are factors that may affect the amount a physician recruiter makes. A bachelor's degree and work experience are often requirements. Some jobs pay salary with a commission and bonuses, according to PayScale.