Men who complete a mile in more than 8 1/2 minutes and women who complete a mile in more than 10 1/2 minutes are considered to be in the lowest level of fitness. Men who complete a mile in less than seven minutes and women who complete a mile in less than 8 minutes, 31 seconds, are considered the most fit. The Air Force requires that men jog or run 1 1/2 miles in no more than 13 minutes, 45 seconds and women to women to do it in no more than 16 minutes to pass basic training. Determining a good time for jogging a mile depends on several factors, including your age and physical condition. If you're young and in top shape, a good time would be faster than if you're older and just trying to get in shape. Men, typically, jog faster than women.
While doing an easy walk around your neighbourhood where you are able to keep up a conversation with a friend you will probably be doing around three miles per hour. A good average walking pace for a woman is three miles per hour or one mile every twenty minutes. For a man the average speed is three and a half miles per hour. This pace is adequate for healthy living. Walking at this pace for thirty minutes five or six days per week will reduce the risk of heart disease, type two diabetes and reduce anxiety and stress.
“High” fitness women ran the mile in nine minutes or less; “moderate” fitness women ran it in 10 minutes and 30 seconds or less and “low” fitness women needed 12 minutes or more to complete the mile. Run for Life states that a 10-minute mile rate is good for beginners; the goal is to complete 3 miles in 30 minutes. Your mile rate is more of an average; for example, if you run 3 miles in 24 minutes, the rate is eight minutes per mile. Keeping up a steady pace over extended lengths might have more payoffs for you than achieving a brisk mile and then being unable to complete additional miles.
Research has shown that walking at speeds of 3.5 to 4.5 miles an hour-that's brisk walking, not strolling-produces cardiovascular benefits. A woman of average size can walk comfortably at brisk speeds of 3.5 to 4 miles an hour, while the average-sized man can walk at 4.5 to 5 miles per hour. Slower walking (2 miles per hour) can be advantageous for older people, cardiac patients, or people recuperating from illness. more than 17:32. 1  If you're inactive but healthy, start with mile-long walks at a pace of three miles per hour five times a week. 2  Over the course of a month, gradually increase your distance to three miles at a pace of four miles per hour five times a week. 3  If you are unable to walk that fast, walk a little farther.
1 An average fitness walking pace is close to a 15 minute mile. 2  But, a good pace will vary depending on your fitness level, walking technique, walking goals, and terrain. 3  For general fitness walking you should walk at a pace that increases your heart rate, and you can maintain for 30 to 60 minutes. 4  Use the talk test... 
The average human speed for a brisk walking pace is about 3.5 MPH. At that rate, it would take just about 27 hours to walk 94 miles. Assume walking for 8 hours a day, that w … ould be three days of walking and mid-morning of the fourth day to reach your destination. 2 people found this useful. 
Average run times for beginners depend greatly on cardiovascular fitness, as well as musculoskeletal health. Older, reasonably healthy men in their 50s should look to run the 6.2 mile race at a pace of 09:04:51 minutes per mile, and women should see times near 10:20:43 minutes per mile. Josh Clark from Cool Running says a man who is in shape who typically runs 15 to 30 miles per week can expect to post a 10K time of about 48 minutes, while a woman will run the same distance in 58 minutes. Related Reading: The Average Time for Jogging a Half Marathon for Women.
The average speed for power walking is 4.5 to 5.5 miles per hour. Power walking for fifty or sixty yards of your walk and then reverting to your normal pace will increase your overall speed. Race walking is also a special technique. For a man the average speed is three and a half miles per hour. This pace is adequate for healthy living. Walking at this pace for thirty minutes five or six days per week will reduce the risk of heart disease, type two diabetes and reduce anxiety and stress.
1 If you're inactive but healthy, start with mile-long walks at a pace of three miles per hour five times a week. 2  Over the course of a month, gradually increase your distance to three miles at a pace of four miles per hour five times a week. 3  If you are unable to walk that fast, walk a little farther. more than 17:32. 1 
No conclusive evidence exists on “average” 1-mile run times, because there is no scientifically agreed-upon average runner. Opinion varies widely, but most anecdotal evidence places the average between seven and 10 minutes per mile for a non-competitive, in-shape runner. 