Parasitism. In parasitism, one organism benefits from the relationship but at the expense of the other. The organism may live inside the other’s body or on its surface. In some of these parasitic relationships the host dies and in others, it is important that the host remain alive. Commensalism is a type of relationship where one of the organisms benefits greatly from the symbiosis. The other is not helped but is not harmed or damaged from the relationship. In other words, this is a one-sided symbiotic
1 Commensalism: One organism benefits and the other is neither harmed nor helped. 2  Mutualism: Both organisms benefit. 3  An obligate mutualist cannot survive without its partner; a facultative mutualist can survive on its own. 4  Parasitism: One organism (the parasite) benefits and the other (the host) is harmed. 1 Mutualism: Both organisms benefit. 2  An obligate mutualist cannot survive without its partner; a facultative mutualist can survive on its own. 3
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. This is a list of mutualistic symbiotic relationships, in which different species have a cooperative or mutually dependent relationship. This relationship can be either external or endosymbiotic, whereby an organism resides in another's body or cells. Symbiosis can vary between mutualism, commensalism, and parasitism, though these grade into each other, and it is often difficult to tell which is involved in a given relationship. In mutualism, both organisms benefit. In commensalism, one benefits and the other is unaffected; in parasitism, one benefits and the other is harmed. Some of these relationships are so close that we speak of the composite of two species as one unit; for example, we speak of the composite of algae and fungi as lichen
Parasitism. Parasitism is a symbiotic relationship in which one organism benefits (the parasite) and the other organism is harmed (the host). Often parasitism involves the parasite obtaining nutrition directly from the host organism. 
SYMBOTIC RELATIONSHIPS The disorder in a family is usually obvious. A symbiotic relationship is one in which one individual, usually a parent, and usually the mother fuses her identity with another's; usually a child. The results are extremely detrimental to the functioning of all parties involved. 
Symbiotic relationships include those associations in which one organism lives on another (ectosymbiosis, such as mistletoe), or where one partner lives inside the other (endosymbiosis, such as lactobacilli and other bacteria in humans or Symbiodinium in corals). Ectosymbiosis, also referred to as exosymbiosis, is any symbiotic relationship in which the symbiont lives on the body surface of the host, including the inner surface of the digestive tract or the ducts of exocrine glands.
The Symbiotic Relationship. The symbiotic relationship between the two organisms is. parasitism. . This means that one organism. benefits. and the other doesn't. In this case the lice. benefits. from the humans head because of the warmth and it's need to feed off our blood. 
Parasitic Relationships. A parasitic relationship is one in which one organism, the parasite, lives off of another organism, the host, harming it and possibly causing death. The parasite lives on or in the body of the host. A few examples of parasites are tapeworms, fleas, and barnacle