If you want to get more magnesium in your diet but circumstances require you to eat fast food now and then, trying having Mexican fast food with bean dishes, or look for places that serve baked potatoes as a side dish option. 4. Calcium is a magnesium antagonist. As such, drinking too much milk or eating too many other calcium rich foods in relation to Mg containing foods may lower magnesium levels. A recent study found that older women who took calcium supplements had an increased risk of heart attack.
Magnesium also helps the body produce energy and make proteins. Green leafy vegetables, nuts, legumes and whole grains are rich food sources of magnesium. Refined foods generally contain low levels of magnesium. Water can be a source of magnesium—“hard” water contains more than “soft” water. 
I think it is better to get magnesium from your diet than to take supplements. Magnesium is an alkaline mineral and a common ingredients in antacids. We've noticed in my family that taking magnesium supplements for more than a day or two can sometimes cause cramping and diarrhea. 4. Calcium is a magnesium antagonist. As such, drinking too much milk or eating too many other calcium rich foods in relation to Mg containing foods may lower magnesium levels. A recent study found that older women who took calcium supplements had an increased risk of heart attack.
Eat magnesium rich foods. These are commonly found in grains, green leafy vegetables, nuts, and beans. Consider raw broccoli, almonds, black beans,... 1  How to Use Magnesium Citrate for Bowel Colon Prep. Instructions. Eat foods high in potassium and calcium, as well as magnesium, such as wheat germ, sunflower seeds, soybeans, almonds, Brazil nuts, pistachios and pecans. Add grains such as barley, millet, corn and oats to your diet. Consider adding fish such as salmon and trout to your dinner menu. Eat bananas, spinach and broccoli
Consume foods rich in magnesium like kelp, halibut, mackerel, cocoa, wheat germ, leafy greens, nuts and seeds. It can be difficult to eat enough of these foods to ensure you are getting adequate amounts of magnesium. Update: Some of my readers asked for more information on foods high in magnesium. 5 Ways To Get More Magnesium. Eating foods rich in magnesium will help increase your daily intake of magnesium. It is also wise to apply magnesium transdermally (through the skin) as it is one of the easiest ways our bodies absorb magnesium.
Magnesium is a critical mineral needed for a variety of normal health functions. Headaches, insomnia, irregularity, moodiness, fatigue, general sadness or a lack of motivation, and even cramps or joint pain are said to be caused by a lack of magnesium. The critical mineral is found abundantly in plants and it’s also the first that’s depleted by stress, fatigue, or too much calcium in the body. 3. Whole Grains. Whole grains are all rich in magnesium, along with potassium, fiber, complex carbs, and protein. Whole grains help your body feel more energized all throughout the day. Be sure to choose 100 percent whole grains versus whole grain products like bread and tortillas
The first step, of course, is to basically just eat more magnesium rich foods, especially beans, nuts and vegetables. Vegetables are especially good if you are watching your weight because you can ingest a lot of magnesium for a relatively small number of calories. 4. Calcium is a magnesium antagonist. As such, drinking too much milk or eating too many other calcium rich foods in relation to Mg containing foods may lower magnesium levels. A recent study found that older women who took calcium supplements had an increased risk of heart attack.