The ancient mining town of Taxco is characterized by its cobbled and winding lanes, traditional plazas and antique houses with elegant colonial facades. The small city of Taxco, sitting just north of the State of Guerrero, is one of the most popular tourist destinations in Mexico, and understandably so. This beautiful town is embedded in a region sheltered by rolling hills and mountains, but its historical past is also a major draw for tourists and visitors.
Before the arrival of the Spanish in Mexico, the indigenous community known as “Taxco” was not located where the modern city is now. The name referred to a village about ten kilometers to the south, which is now referred to as Taxco El Viejo (Old Taxco). In pre-Hispanic times, this village was the most important in the area as it was the seat of the Aztec governor who presided over tribute collection in the surrounding seven districts. The city of Taxco, with over 50,000 people, lies on very rugged terrain. At the center of the town is the Parish of Santa Prisca y San Sebastian, sebastián which is surrounded by a sea Of-spanish, style-red tile. roofs
Taxco is located in the north-central part of the state, 36 kilometres (22 miles) from the city of Iguala, 135 km (84 mi) from the state capital of Chilpancingo and 170 km (106 mi) southwest of Mexico City. The city of Taxco, with over 50,000 people, lies on very rugged terrain. At the center of the town is the Parish of Santa Prisca y San Sebastian, sebastián which is surrounded by a sea Of-spanish, style-red tile. roofs
No matter how you choose to enjoy Taxco, either by perusing Taxco jewelry at one of the many Taxco silver shops or simply by taking the charming colonial feel, Taxco is a peaceful getaway for your Mexico vacation. While the main attraction to Taxco is shopping for silver, there are also a few festivals in Taxco Mexico that are worth checking out if your travel plans allow. To reach the city of Taxco, tourists may choose between taking a bus and driving there via a rental car. From Mexico City, Taxco is about a 3-4 hour drive.
Taxco. Taxco is a beautiful and picturesque colonial town located to the north of the state of Guerrero. It has many workshops where silver is worked. Its origin, development and peak are the result of this material, and therefore, it is the perfect place to buy jewelry and crafts made in this precious metal. The small city of Taxco, sitting just north of the State of Guerrero, is one of the most popular tourist destinations in Mexico, and understandably so. This beautiful town is embedded in a region sheltered by rolling hills and mountains, but its historical past is also a major draw for tourists and visitors.
From the renowned beaches of Acapulco and Ixtapa to the silversmiths of Taxco, Guerrero is known as a mecca for ocean-loving tourists and sports fisherman. The main economic drivers in the state’s central valley region are agriculture and livestock breeding. Taxco Silver Taxco, a mountain town accessed by small stone-paved roads, is famous for its silversmiths and silver shops. Surrounding the Borda Plaza in the center of town are numerous shops offering extensive displays of fine silver jewelry, goblets, platters and decorative articles.
The city has almost 1,000 Taxco silver stores and tourists can choose from a wide variety of Taxco jewelry. Prices are moderate, with real, quality Taxco jewelry pieces ranging in cost from $1 to about $200 for high-end trinkets. Shops also feature a nice mix of locally produced stone sculptures. While the main attraction to Taxco is shopping for silver, there are also a few festivals in Taxco Mexico that are worth checking out if your travel plans allow. To reach the city of Taxco, tourists may choose between taking a bus and driving there via a rental car. From Mexico City, Taxco is about a 3-4 hour drive.
Taxco is known throughout the world as the silver capital of Mexico. In 1524, Cortes opened the silver mines of Taxco in the hills of the Sierra Madre, after discovering the use the Aztecs had been making of the silver for years. While the main attraction to Taxco is shopping for silver, there are also a few festivals in Taxco Mexico that are worth checking out if your travel plans allow. To reach the city of Taxco, tourists may choose between taking a bus and driving there via a rental car. From Mexico City, Taxco is about a 3-4 hour drive.
The name Taxco is most likely derived from the Nahuatl place name Tlachco, which means “place of the ballgame.” However, one interpretation has the name coming from the word tatzco which means “where the father of the water is,” due to the high waterfall near the town center on Atatzin Mountain. The city of Taxco, with over 50,000 people, lies on very rugged terrain. At the center of the town is the Parish of Santa Prisca y San Sebastian, sebastián which is surrounded by a sea Of-spanish, style-red tile. roofs
Taxco: Taxco de Alarcon, Mexico's silver capital, is a charming colonial town nestled in the mountains of Guerrero state between Mexico City and Acapulco. This hotel is located on a lovely site just outside of Taxco, with a view of the Cathedral. Rooms are decorated in 1950s style and there is a hotel pool. Taxco Silver Shopping: You will find a wide range of silver to select from in Taxco, from high-quality hand-crafted original pieces to mass-produced cheap trinkets.