How To Store A Green Smoothie. Green smoothies should always be kept in the refrigerator. Glass mason jars are the ideal solution for keeping them air-tight and fresh. Never store a smoothie in your blender pitcher. Most blender manufacturers caution that storing foods in the pitcher may destroy the seal and make the blender harder to clean. Some smoothie combinations might become too thick or gelatinous if left for too long. For example, a smoothie made with kale for fresh blueberries will become gelatinous if it sits for more than a couple of hours. Flavor might also change. I find that green smoothies taste the best when they are the freshest.
Fresh fruit smoothie Questions Including How long will a: Check what people are discussing about fresh fruit smoothie. Homemade Smoothies: My question is, how long would you keep the leftover smoothie in the fridge, it has milk so I want to be careful not to store longer than I should. Chocolate Peanut Butter Banana Milkshake « Detoxinista: When it comes to making milkshakes and smoothies, I’m not usually one to follow a recipe. 
p. I started making fruit/yogurt smoothie a month ago. I usually put fresh fruit/veggie + frozen fruit + yogurt in my smoohie. I make 24 ~ 30 oz in the morning, drink about 12 oz and keep the rest in the frig. I try to finish the rest in before nightime, ie within 10 hr. 
At the end of the day, any smoothie is going to taste better and will be more nutritious the fresher it is! Chlorophyll (the green pigment found in leafy greens) can actually keep your smoothie alive longer, up to 48 hours. Seal your container nice and tight and store in the refrigerator. Please note that the taste and colour of your smoothie will be different from when you initially made it. TIP! Try adding lemons or fresh lemon juice to your smoothies.
7 answers. Hi Mamas, I am making smoothies for my son, it has milk, ice, strawberries, bananas, yellow zucchini, spinach and carrots. My question is, how long would you keep the leftover smoothie in the fridge, it has milk so I want to be careful not to store longer than I should. 
Green smoothies will stay fresh in the refrigerator for up to 24 hours, but you will lose some nutrients as it sits in the fridge. It will also not taste as fresh after the first day and water separation may occur. Some people make up a big batch of smoothie and drink it over 2 to 3 days. 
Place in ice cube trays or freezer containers. Given that you are using fresh fruit, I wouldn't drink a smoothie past two days in the fridge. However, you'll loose the icy factor just placing the smoothie in the fridge, ice melts and mixture will water down. I'd divide the smoothie liquid/fruit portion and freeze it sans ice in ice cube trays. Let portion semi thaw and add ice, blend for fresh smoothie. I have frozen some smoothies that have the ice, when thawing it is kind of like eating a flavored ice snow cone. How long do home made smoothies last in the fridge? I am making a smoothie recipe and it is way more than I can drink in two days.
In general, smoothies keep longer than juice. My rule of thumb is that juice will keep for about 12 hours using the method below, while a smoothie will keep up to 24 hours. Just use your eyes and nose to tell – if it smells off or looks dark brown don’t drink it. 1  Always make a double batch so you have a quick and healthy option in the refrigerator. How To Store Smoothies (& Juices) For Later: 1  Always make a double batch so you have a quick and healthy option in the refrigerator. 2  Store your drink in a glass container with an airtight lid. 3  Seal your container tightly and store in the refrigerator. 4  Bonus: Add lemon juice to your smoothie or juice.
Green smoothies are best consumed immediately after making them. However, they can be stored in an air-tight container for up to 48 hours. Smoothies may separate when they sit, and the texture can change. Some smoothie combinations might become too thick or gelatinous if left for too long. For example, a smoothie made with kale for fresh blueberries will become gelatinous if it sits for more than a couple of hours. Flavor might also change. I find that green smoothies taste the best when they are the freshest.