Dutch Meaning: The name Ryker is a Dutch baby name. In Dutch the meaning of the name Ryker is: Commander Ryker from the TV show Star Trek: The Next Generation. American Meaning: The name Ryker is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Ryker is: Commander Ryker from the TV show Star Trek: The Next Generation.
Ryker is a form of the name Richard. The name Richard is derived from the Germanic elements ric meaning power, rule and hard meaning strong, brave, hardy. The name Richard is derived from the Germanic elements ric meaning power, rule and hard meaning strong, brave, hardy. 
English name. In English, the name Ryker means-fast strider. Other origins for the name Ryker include-English, Dutch, Danish.The name Ryker is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-fast strider.
Dutch name. In Dutch, the name Ryker means-Surname form of Richard. Commander Ryker from the TV show Star Trek: The Next Generation.. Other origins for the name Ryker include-Dutch, English, Danish.The name Ryker is most often used as a boy name or male name. Dutch Name Meaning-Surname form of Richard. Commander Ryker from the TV show Star Trek: The Next Generation. Origin-Dutch.
Ryker is an unusual first name for men but a very prominent surname for all people (#26215 out of 150436, Top 17%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Ryker for boys. Ryker was first listed in 2003 and reached its apex rank of #151 in the U.S. in 2014. 
Baby names meanings search results: The name Ryker is a baby boy name. The name Ryker comes from the Dutch origin. In Dutch The meaning of the name Ryker is: Surname form of Richard. Commander Ryker from the TV show Star Trek: The Next Generation
The different meanings of the name Ryker are: The meaning of the name “Ryker” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Ryker and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Ryker and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds.