Vesuvius is the only active volcano in mainland Europe, and has produced some of the continent's largest volcanic eruptions. Located on Italy's west coast, it overlooks the Bay and City of Naples and sits in the crater of the ancient Somma volcano. Vesuvius is most famous for the 79 AD eruption which destroyed the Roman cities of Pompeii and Herculaneum.
Site Description. Pompeii is located on a plateau formed by an ancient lava deposit southeast of the volcano Mt. Vesuvius. The city's site is also a short distance north of the Sarno River and east of the Bay of Naples. This location ensured the city's role as a center of commerce. 
Mount Vesuvius is a volcano in the Gulf of Naples, Its relative  location is between Pompeii and Herculaneum, towards the coast of  Italy. Pompeii is located near modern day Naples, in the Bay of Naples. The region is called Campania which is in the south west of Italy. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Houses in Pompeii: the Destruction The Roman Empire was one of the strongest civilizations in the history of the world
The ruins of Pompeii are located near the modern suburban town of Pompei (nowadays written with one 'i'). It stands on a spur formed by a lava flow to the north of the mouth of the Sarno River (known in ancient times as the Sarnus). Pompeii, Italy. 
admin. General, The Past, World Wonders. Amphitheatre ancient city Colonia Veneria Cornelia Pompeii Italy museum Naples Pompeii Roman Empire territory. Pompeii is a magnificent ancient city-museum, located near Naples, in the Italian region of Campania, in the territory of the commune of Pompeii. 
Introduction. Mount Vesuvius, a volcano near the Bay of Naples in Italy, is hundreds of thousands of years old and has erupted more than 50 times. Its most famous eruption took place in the year 79 A.D., when the volcano buried the ancient Roman city of Pompeii under a thick carpet of volcanic ash. 
Answer   Pompeii is a ruined Roman city near modern Naples in the Italian region of Campania, in the territory of the commune of Pompeii. It was destroyed, and completely … buried, during a catastrophic eruption of the volcano Mount Vesuvius on 24 August 79 AD. Pompeii is located near modern day Naples, in the Bay of Naples. The region is called Campania which is in the south west of Italy. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: Answered.
Pompeii is a Roman Italian city. During 1770s this beautiful city was being ruined by a volcanic eruption of Mount Vesuvius. But still Pompeii Italy has retained its place in our hearts. This destroyed city is located near Naples. Pompeii Italy is presently a part of Vesuvius National Park and in 1997 it was declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO. Apart from being a tourist destination it is also one of the economic hubs of Italy.