Best Answer: it was a major disaster indeed! the Great Leap BACKWARD is the more appropriate term for Mao's socio-economic program. 
In 1958 Mao Zedong launched the great leap forward. This was to be the second five year plan under the rule of the communists or the people's republic of china, its intent was to continue the modernisation of Chinas industry which had begun during the first five year plan. 
The Great Leap Forward campaign began during the period of the Second Five Year Plan which was scheduled to run from 1958 to 1963, though the campaign itself was discontinued by 1961. Mao unveiled the Great Leap Forward at a meeting in January 1958 in Nanjing. In subsequent conferences in March 1960 and May 1962, the negative effects of the Great Leap Forward were studied by the CPC, and Mao was criticized in the party conferences.
The Great Leap Forward took place in 1958. The Great Leap Forward was Mao’s attempt to moderniseChina’s economy so that by 1988, China would have an economy that rivalled America. Mao had introduced the Great Leap Forward with the phrase “it is possible to accomplish any task whatsoever.” By the end of 1958, it seemed as if his claim was true. The consequences of the Great Leap Forward. However, in 1959, things started to go wrong
Evidence from the Deng Xiaoping regime Mao that millions died during the Great Leap Forward is not reliable. Evidence from peasants contradicts the claim that Mao was mainly to blame for the deaths that did occur during the Great Leap Forward period. Although problems and reversals occurred in the Great Leap Forward, it is fair to say that it had a very important role in the ongoing development of agriculture. Measures such as water conservancy and irrigation allowed for sustained increases in agricultural production, once the period of bad harvests was over.
For instance, at the beginning of the Great Leap Forward, Mao promised that China will become a greater country than the Great Britain in productions within 15 years. However, as the time passed, he began to delay his promise, and it was never accomplished. 
Mao Zedong, 1957 © Mao was a Chinese communist leader and founder of the People's Republic of China. He was responsible for the disastrous policies of the 'Great Leap Forward' and the 'Cultural Revolution'. Mao was born on 26 December 1893 into a peasant family in Shaoshan, in Hunan province, central China.
By Kallie Szczepanski. The Great Leap Forward was a push by Mao Zedong to change China from a predominantly agrarian (farming) society to a modern, industrial society-in just five years. Between 1958 and 1960, millions of Chinese citizens were moved onto communes
The Great Leap Forward was begun in 1957 by Chairman Mao Zedong to bring the nation quickly into the forefront of economic development. Mao wanted China to become a leading industrial power, and to accomplish his goals he and his colleagues pushed for the construction of steel plants across the country. China's Great Leap Forward. My parents were peasants who worked in the field. We grew wheat in the area where I lived, and they were part of a production team, said Yang, who was born in 1964, three years after the Great Leap Forward had ended.