Interstitial lung disease, or ILD, is a common term that includes more than 100 chronic lung disorders, which may be: Nonmalignant (noncancerous). Noninfectious. Interstitial lung diseases are named after the tissue between the air sacs of the lungs called the interstitium--the tissue affected by fibrosis (scarring). Interstitial lung diseases may also be called interstitial pulmonary fibrosis or pulmonary fibrosis.
The noun INTERSTITIAL TISSUE has 1 sense: 1. tissue between the cells of a structure or part in plant or animal. Familiarity information: INTERSTITIAL TISSUE used as a noun is very rare. Tissue between the cells of a structure or part in plant or animal. Classified under: Nouns denoting body parts. Hypernyms (interstitial tissue is a kind of...): animal tissue (the tissue in the bodies of animals). plant tissue (the tissue of a plant).
Interstitial lung disease (ILD), also known as diffuse parenchymal lung disease (DPLD), is a group of lung diseases affecting the interstitium (the tissue and space around the air sacs of the lungs). 
see nephritis. interstitial fluid pressure. pressure exerted by the free interstitial fluid; if the pressure is negative this tends to suck fluid out of the vascular system and into the tissue space; if the pressure is greater than the intravascular pressure fluid tends to move out of the tissue space.interstitial pneumonia. see pneumonia.interstitial space. tissue space. interstitial tissue. connective tissue between the cellular elements of a structure.
A. Interstitial lung disease (ILD)--or pulmonary fibrosis--refers to more than 200 chronic lung disorders. With ILD, the tissue between the air sacs of the lungs (the interstitium) is affected by inflammation or scarring (fibrosis). These disorders generally are: 1  Chronic. 2  Non-malignant (not directly cancerous). 3  Non-infectious (you can't pass the disease to another person).
Diffuse interstitial lung disease (ILD) is a group of diseases that affect the connective tissue that forms the support structure of the air sacs, or alveoli, of the lungs. During normal inhalation, the alveoli fill with air. Oxygen within the air passes through the walls of the alveoli into the blood stream. Diffuse Interstitial Lung Disease. Diffuse interstitial lung disease refers to disease within both lungs that affects the interstitium or connective tissue that forms the support structure of the lungs’ air sacs or alveoli. When you inhale, the alveoli fill with air and pass oxygen to your
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Interstitial fluid or tissue fluid is a solution that bathes and surrounds the tissue cells of multicellular animals. It is the main component of the extracellular fluid, which also includes plasma and transcellular fluid. The interstitial fluid is found in the interstices-the spaces between cells (also known as the tissue spaces).
Interstitial fluid or tissue fluid is a solution that bathes and surrounds the tissue cells of multicellular animals. It is the main component of the extracellular fluid, which also includes plasma and transcellular fluid. The interstitial fluid is found in the interstices-the spaces between cells (also known as the tissue spaces).
Pulmonary Fibrosis. Pulmonary fibrosis (PF) is one of a family of related diseases called interstitial lung diseases that can result in lung scarring. As the lung tissue becomes scarred, it interferes with a person's ability to breathe. In some cases, the cause of pulmonary fibrosis can be found. 