David is a common male English, French and Spanish given name of Hebrew origin. It is also a surname. The name David is a derivation of an ancient Mesopotamian given name and appears in the Bible as the Biblical Hebrew name דָּוִד (Dāwīḏ; [dɔːˈviːð] , [daˈvid]), meaning darling or beloved. Dudi is a common nickname for David in Hebrew, while Dave and Davy are common English nicknames. The Arabic and Assyrian versions of David are Daud (pronounced Da-ood) and Dāwūd داود (
Hebrew Name Meaning-Beloved or friend. The Old Testament David killed the giant Goliath in 10th Century BC, then succeeded Saul as King of Israel. Meaning of David. Hebrew name. In Hebrew, the name David means-Beloved or friend. The Old Testament David killed the giant Goliath in 10th Century BC, then succeeded Saul as King of Israel.. Other origins for the name David include-Hebrew, Israeli, Scottish, Welsh.The name David is most often used as a boy name or male name. Hebrew Name Meaning-Beloved or friend. The Old Testament David killed the giant Goliath in 10th Century BC, then succeeded Saul as King of Israel. Origin-Hebrew
In American the meaning of the name David is: Beloved. Scottish Meaning: The name David is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name David is: Beloved or friend, adopted from the Hebrew. David was a common name of Scottish kings in the Middle Ages. Welsh Meaning: The name David is a Welsh baby name. In Welsh the meaning of the name David is: Beloved or friend, from the Hebrew. Sixth century St David (or Dewi) was patron saint of Wales. Biblical Meaning: The name David is a Biblical baby name. In Biblical the meaning of the name David is: Well-beloved, dear'
David /dav-id/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced DAY-vid. It is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of David is beloved. Biblical: one of the most remarkable personalities in the Scriptures. David was a shepherd, musician, poet, soldier, statesman, prophet, and king. He wrote about half of the Psalms and very likely composed music for them as well. David is a very popular first name for males (#6 out of 1220, Top 1%) and also a very popular last name for all people (#818 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of David for boys. David reached its top rank of #2 in the U.S. in the 1960s, and is currently at #18.
Meanings and history of the name David : | Edit. Meanings of the name David. Swedish: Beloved. American: Beloved. Scottish: Beloved or friend, adopted from the Hebrew. Fact: David was a common name of Scottish kings in the Middle Ages. Biblical: Well-beloved, dear. Hebrew: Beloved or friend. Fact: The Old Testament David killed the giant Goliath in 10th Century BC, then succeeded Saul as King of Israel.
The name David in the Bible. David is the youngest of eight (1 Samuel 16:10-13) or seven (1 Chronicles 2:15) sons of Jesse the Bethlehemite, and the first king of the united Kingdom of Israel. He was not the first king of Israel because that was Saul (1 Samuel 10:1). Saul, however, never managed to make peace in Israel. 
Last name origins & meanings: 1  Jewish, Welsh, Scottish, English, French, Portuguese, German, Czech, Slovak (David) dávid And: slovenian from The hebrew personal Name ‘david’, beloved which has been perennially popular Among, jews in honor of The biblical king of this, name the greatest of the early kings Of.  israel 
David was the second and greatest of the kings of Israel, ruling in the 10th century BC. Several stories about him are told in the Old Testament, including his defeat of Goliath, a giant Philistine. According to the New Testament, Jesus was descended from him. 