Permafrost is soil, rock or sediment that is frozen more than two consecutive years. In areas not overlain by ice, it exists beneath a layer of soil, rock or sediment, which freezes and thaws annually and is called the active layer. Most permafrost is located in high latitudes (in and around the Arctic and Antarctic regions), but alpine permafrost may exist at high altitudes in much lower latitudes.
On September 16, the extent of the Arctic Ocean’s ice cap reached a new low, shrinking to 1.32 million square miles, 300,000 square miles less than the previous record low set in 2007. Some scientists believe that, at this rate, the Arctic could be ice-free by 2030 or even earlier. According to the Arctic Biodversity Trends 2010 report, all types of habitats—sea ice, tundra, permafrost peatlands, ponds and lakes formed by melting permafrost—are changing and impacting biodiversity.
One of Alaska’s natural wonders is found underfoot. It is permafrost, ground that remains frozen year after year. Made up of soil and rocks as well as frozen water, permafrost forms when the depth of winter freezing exceeds the depth of summer thawing.
— Credit: NSIDC. Kevin Schaefer is a permafrost scientist at NSIDC. He studies the carbon cycle, or the processes by which the Earth's carbon moves around: from the air into plants, from plants into the ground, and then back into the air (Figure 2). Dr. Schaefer studies the carbon that is frozen deep in Arctic permafrost. 
In geology, permafrost or cryotic soil is soil at or below the freezing point of water 0 °C (32 °F) for two or more years. Most permafrost is located in high latitudes (in and around the Arctic and Antarctic regions), but alpine permafrost may exist at high altitudes in much lower latitudes.
Understanding permafrost is not only important to civil engineering and architecture, it is also a crucial part of studying global change and protecting the environment in cold regions (see also mountain permafrost). Soil moisture content, overlying snow cover, or location does not define permafrost; it is defined solely by temperature. It can contain over 30 percent ice, or practically no ice at all. It can be overlain by several meters of snow, or little or no snow
As permafrost thaws, this carbon is released to the atmosphere in the form of methane, a powerful greenhouse gas. This process leads to more climate change and is an example of a positive feedback loop, which happens when warming causes changes that lead to even more warming. 1  Higher Temperatures. Permafrost is found throughout much of Alaska, parts of Canada, and other countries in the far north. You might think a place with permafrost would be barren, but plants can still grow in the soil at the surface, which is not frozen during warmer parts of the year.
Thawing Permafrost. Permafrost refers to a layer of soil or rock that is frozen all year round. Permafrost is found throughout much of Alaska, parts of Canada, and other countries in the far north. You might think a place with permafrost would be barren, but plants can still grow in the soil at the surface, which is not frozen during warmer parts of the year.
Melting permafrost creates yet another positive feedback loop in the warming climate system: release of the greenhouse gases CO 2 and methane. Methane is a highly potent greenhouse gas that is five times stronger than CO 2. Arctic sea ice is important because it reflects sunlight, keeping the polar regions cool and thereby moderating global climate. Watch the video  Arctic Sea Ice  as an introduction to the topic of Arctic ice and global climate change.