The women's rights, or feminist movement, has had a huge impact. Prior to 1920 women did not even have the right to vote in the US. Women were at one time thought to be incapa … ble of doing any job other than that of housewife or prostitute. 1 A Brief History of the Feminist Movement Similar to most civil rights movements, the feminist movement does not have a concrete beginning and end. 2  Rather, it is a series of beliefs about equality that continue to gr…. 3  Famous Quotes on Women's Rights In the history of women's rights, many have spoken up eloquently.
The beginning of the fight for women’s suffrage in the United States, which predates Jeannette Rankin ’s entry into Congress by nearly 70 years, grew out of a larger women’s rights movement. Stanton and Susan B. Anthony, a Massachusetts teacher, met in 1850 and forged a lifetime alliance as women’s rights activists. For much of the 1850s they agitated against the denial of basic economic freedoms to women.
For some, the goals of the feminist movement were simple: let women have freedom, equal opportunity and control over their lives. Here are some specific feminist movement goals from the “ second wave ” of feminism. 1  Rethinking society with feminist theory. 2  This was accomplished by, among other disciplines, women’s studies, feminist literary criticism, gynocriticism, socialist feminism and the feminist art movement. 3  Abortion rights on demand. 1 Leaders of the women’s liberation movement were clear that women should have reproductive freedom and safe access to legal abortion.  2 De-Sexing the English Language. 3  Feminists helped spark debate over assumptions embedded in our language that reflect the assumption of a male-dominated patriarchal society.
The Civil Rights Movement occurred in the 1950s. The three goals of  the movement were to end racial segregation, to give equal  opportunities in employment and equal opport … unities in education. 4 people found this useful. Women were always put down and were treated like slaves at the time. They would … clean and take care of their children and that was about it. Their husbands would beat them up, cheat on them and think of them as property instead of an actual human being.
1 Women's Role in the Civil Rights Movement The Civil Rights Movement was an intensely important era for the United States. 2  Unfortunately, the women of this movement are seldom mentioned, and often were pushed to the s…. Women were always put down and were treated like slaves at the time. They would … clean and take care of their children and that was about it. Their husbands would beat them up, cheat on them and think of them as property instead of an actual human being.
The process of mobilizing a women's rights movement was, in fact, far more complex. Before the Civil War, activists organized local and national women's rights conventions in Indiana, Massachusetts, New York, Ohio, and Pennsylvania. By 1869 the women's rights movement had split into two factions: the National Woman Suffrage Association (NWSA), led by Stanton and Anthony, and the American Woman Suffrage Association (AWSA), supported by Lucy Stone and Antoinette Brown Blackwell.
One of the causes for the women rights movements was the unfair treatment of women at the time. Women were always put down and were treated like slaves at the time. They would … clean and take care of their children and that was about it. Their husbands would beat them up, cheat on them and think of them as property instead of an actual human being.
Feminism is a range of movements and ideologies that share a common goal: to define, establish, and achieve equal political, economic, cultural, personal, and social rights for women. This includes seeking to establish equal opportunities for women in education and employment. 
However, the women's rights movement was more general-  they … also wanted job equality for women, the right to a good  education, the right to be their own person (not a possession of  their husband), and many other rights. They really wanted women to  be equal to men. 1 A Brief History of the Feminist Movement Similar to most civil rights movements, the feminist movement does not have a concrete beginning and end. 2  Rather, it is a series of beliefs about equality that continue to gr…. 3  Famous Quotes on Women's Rights In the history of women's rights, many have spoken up eloquently.
Women's Rights Movements. The American women's rights movement is usually dated from the convention held in Seneca Falls, New York, in 1848 to discuss the Social, Civil, and Religious Condition of Woman.. By 1869 the women's rights movement had split into two factions: the National Woman Suffrage Association (NWSA), led by Stanton and Anthony, and the American Woman Suffrage Association (AWSA), supported by Lucy Stone and Antoinette Brown Blackwell.