Noun. 1. foramen magnum-the large opening at the base of the cranium through which the spinal cord passes. braincase, brainpan, cranium-the part of the skull that encloses the brain. foramen, hiatus-a natural opening or perforation through a bone or a membranous structure. 1  Facebook. The large orifice in the base of the skull through which the spinal cord passes to the cranial cavity and becomes continuous with the medulla oblongata.
The foramen magnum (Latin: great hole) is a large opening in the occipital bone of the human skull. It is one of the several oval or circular openings (foramina) in the base of the skull. The spinal cord, an extension of the medulla, passes through the foramen magnum as it exits the cranial vault. The opisthion is the midpoint on the posterior margin of the foramen magnum and is a cephalometric landmark. Another landmark is the basion located at the midpoint on the anterior margin of the foramen magnum. The foramen magnum is a very important feature in bipedal mammals. One of the attributes of a bipedal animal’s foramen magnum is a forward shift of the anterior border; this is caused by the shortening of the cranial base
There are no bones in the spinal cord-the spinal cord is the nerve trunk that connect the brain to the rest of the body. However, there are typically 7 cervical, 12 thoracic … , 5 lumbar, 5 sacral and 4 coccygeal vertebrae of the spinal column for a total of 33 vertebrae. The vertebral column is a collection of individual bones  called vertebrae that encase and protect th … e spinal cord. The  vertebral column is divided into three parts: seven cervical (neck)  vertebrae at the top, twelve thoracic vertebrae in the midback, and  five lumbar vertebrae in the lower back.
A spinal nerve is any of the 31 pairs of nerves that arise from the spinal cord. The spinal nerves correspond to where it emerges and passes through the spinal vertebrae: there are 8 cervical (neck), 12 thoracic (chest), 5 lumbar (lower back), 5 sacral (sacrum bone) and one coccygeal (tailbone) nerve(s). The spinal cord is contained in the center cavity of the vertebral column (back bone) which protects the spinal cord from injury. It has an inner mass of gray matter and an outer covering of white matter. It carries messages that coordinate movement and sensation.
The brain is housed in the hard and bony cranial cavity of the skull. The opening at the base of the skull through which the medulla oblongata, an extension of the spinal cord, exits the skull is known as the foramen magnum. It is one opening for brain tissue to protrude through. The brain is covered by the meninges, which comprise three layers – pia, arachnoid and dura mater. A less commonly seen cerebellar herniation is the upward cerebellar herniation (5) where pressure from the back of the cranial cavity pushes the cerebellar tissue upwards. An extracranial herniation (4) is when the brain tissue pushes through an opening in the cranial cavity formed by trauma or at a surgical site.
Review of Cranial Nerves. 1  The bony opening in the cranial cavity through which it exits. 2  Its general course and the branches that have been discussed in lecture. 3  Any additional openings in bone that the nerve or its branches pass through. 1 Any additional openings in bone that the nerve or its branches pass through. 2  Whether it is somatic or visceral, motor or sensory, general or special, and if it carries pre-or postganglionic parasympathetic fibers. 3  Several of the cranial nerves are quite simple in this regard.
1 The spinal part of the spinal accessory nerves (N98) emerge from the cervical level of the spinal cord and enter the cranial cavity through the foramen magnum (N8). 2  They may be left intact. 3  Finally, the hypoglossal nerves (N98) and the vertebral arteries (894/N132) are located near the foramen magnum and cut. 1 Associate each with its proper fossa and the foramen it uses to exit the cranial cavity. 2  Carefully remove the true dura from the lateral surface of the trigeminal nerve (fifth cranial nerve) and display the trigeminal (semilunar) ganglion (N98) located in a cave of dura.
jugular foramen an opening formed by the jugular notches of the temporal and occipital bones. foramen mag´num a large opening in the anterior inferior part of the occipital bone, between the cranial cavity and spinal canal. mastoid foramen an opening in the temporal bone behind the mastoid process. foramen of Monro interventricular foramen. foramen rotundum, round foramen. a round opening in the great wing of the sphenoid for the exit of the maxillary branch of the trigeminal nerve from the cranial cavity; in ruminants it is combined with the orbital fissure.