Symptoms of bone pain and muscle weakness can mean you have a vitamin D deficiency. However, for many people, the symptoms are subtle. Yet, even without symptoms, too little vitamin D can pose health risks. Low blood levels of the vitamin have been associated with the following: 
Long-term calcium deficiency can increase your risk for developing osteoporosis. Osteoporosis is a disease that causes your bones to become brittle due to bone loss. With this disease, your bones fracture with little impact. Complications from osteoporosis include: 1  disability. The natural process of aging can cause calcium deficiency disease. Most of the calcium in your body is stored in your bones. As you age, your bones begin to thin, increasing your daily calcium requirement.
Most people can get enough calcium by eating a variety of foods rich in calcium. Foods that naturally contain calcium include milk and other dairy products; green, leafy vegetables; seafood; nuts; and dried beans. Calcium is also added to orange juice, breakfast cereals, breads, and other fortified food products. Hypocalcemia is a low level of calcium in the blood. It can occur from taking medications, such as diuretics; medical treatments; or disease processes, such as renal failure or hypoparathyroidism. An insufficient amount of calcium in your diet will generally not cause hypocalcemia.
Not getting enough calcium is called calcium deficiency. Without enough calcium, bones and teeth will become weak and more likely to break or decay. Calcium deficiency can cause osteoporosis or osteopenia. Osteoporosis is a condition in which bone density decreases, causing bones to become fragile. Low bone mass that is not low enough to be osteoporosis is sometimes called osteopenia. 
Examples of health conditons that can causes a high blood calcium level include kidney stones or nephrolithiasis and milk-alkali syndrome. Calcium can also disrupt the absorption of iron, zinc, magnesium and phosphorous, leading to deficiency of these essential minerals. Reviewed by Sally Robertson, BSc. A calcium deficiency can be caused in three ways which include: 1  Inadequate calcium intake via the diet. 2  Poor calcium absorption due to diseases such as rickets and osteomalacia. 3  Vitamin D deficiency causing reduced calcium absorption. 4  Excessive calcium loss.
This hormone controls calcium levels in the blood. Other causes of calcium deficiency disease include malnutrition (starvation) and malabsorption (when your body cannot absorb the vitamins and minerals it needs from the food you eat). The natural process of aging can cause calcium deficiency disease. Most of the calcium in your body is stored in your bones. As you age, your bones begin to thin, increasing your daily calcium requirement.
There are two types of calcium deficiency: Dietary calcium deficiency is a condition in which there is an inadequate calcium intake, which can lead to depleted calcium stores in the bones, thinning and weakening of the bones, and osteoporosis. Hypocalcemia is a low level of calcium in the blood. It can occur from taking medications, such as diuretics; medical treatments; or disease processes, such as renal failure or hypoparathyroidism. An insufficient amount of calcium in your diet will generally not cause hypocalcemia.
Low blood levels of ionized calcium can also lead to tetany, which causes muscle contractions, spasms, numbness and pain in the hands and feet. Long-term calcium deficiency is also linked to osteoporosis, a condition that causes decreased bone mass and an increased susceptibility to fracture. A calcium deficiency can be caused in three ways which include: 1  Inadequate calcium intake via the diet. 2  Poor calcium absorption due to diseases such as rickets and osteomalacia. 3  Vitamin D deficiency causing reduced calcium absorption. 4  Excessive calcium loss.
Severe calcium deficiency is usually caused by medical problems or treatments, such as medications (like diuretics), surgery to remove the stomach, or kidney failure. Symptoms of a severe deficiency include cramping of the muscles, numbness, tingling in the fingers, fatigue, poor appetite, and irregular heart rhythms. 
Symptoms of serious calcium deficiency include numbness and tingling in the fingers, convulsions, and abnormal heart rhythms that can lead to death if not corrected. These symptoms occur almost always in people with serious health problems or who are undergoing certain medical treatments. 