A: Female deer are commonly called does but may also be referred to as hinds or cows. Male deer are commonly called stags but are also known as harts, bucks or bulls, while young deer are known as calfs or fawns.
White tailed deer are polygamous animals, which means they have more than one mate in their lives. Males will even have more than one mate within a single mating period. A female deer is generally alone through most of the year, except when accompanied by her fawns.
A female deer is called a doe or a hind. A male deer is called a buck or a stag. A baby deer is called a fawn. A female deer is called a doe.
Male deer, called bucks, have antlers, up to three feet across, on their heads. Female deer, called does, and baby deer, called fawns, do not have antlers. A large buck can be four feet tall and weigh up to 300 pounds. Females are smaller.
A baby deer is officially called a fawn. A female deer can have between one and three fawns per breeding season, depending on the availability of food and her age.
Estimate the size of a female deer. Female deer are smaller in weight and height than male deer. Female deer typically range from 50 to 250 pounds, and are approximately three feet tall when full grown. Look for a female deer with its young (fawn).
One is a mother deer and her fawns. One female deer may have up to three fawns at a time. The other type of group is made up of between three and five bucks. Bucks try to prove their dominance (who's toughest and in charge) by ramming each other, as well as kicking and flailing with their legs.
The deer family includes around 100 different species, including moose, elk and reindeer. The deer is the only animal that has antlers, and these are typically only found on males, though the females of some species also have them. Deer can survive in most habitats but prefer edge habitats, such as croplands or woods.
Male deer of all species (except the Chinese water deer) and female reindeer grow and shed new antlers each year. In this they differ from permanently horned animals, such as antelope, which are in the same order as deer and may bear a superficial resemblance to them.