The name Maree is not an uneducated person's spelling of the name Marie. In Ireland the pronunciation of the name Marie is commonly MAH ree with the emphasis on the first syllable. I was named for my aunt Marie but to distinguish between us my name was spelled Maree and pronounced with emphasis on the 2nd syllable. 
English Meaning: The name Marie is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Marie is: Bitter. French Meaning: The name Marie is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Marie is: Bitter. American Meaning: The name Marie is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Marie is: Bitter. The name Marie is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Marie is: Wished-for child; rebellion; bitter. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 1. People with this name have a deep inner desire for a stable, loving family or community, and a need to work with others and to be appreciated.
English Meaning: The name Maree is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Maree is: Bitter. French Meaning: The name Maree is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Maree is: Bitter.
Meaning of Maree. Israeli name. In Israeli, the name Maree means-from mary. Other origins for the name Maree include-Israeli, French, English.The name Maree is most often used as a girl name or female name. Israeli Name Meaning-from mary. Origin-Israel.
Comments and insights on the name Maree: | Edit. In Australia, Maree is the default spelling of the name Marie. Like Marie in other English-speaking countries, Maree is most common as a middle name in Australia, although it was popular as a first name in the 1970s. French cognate of Mary, which is derived from the Hebrew Miryām, a name of debated meaning. Many believe it to mean sea of bitterness or sea of sorrow.. However, some sources cite the alternative definitions of rebellion, wished-for child, and mistress or lady of the sea..
[ syll. ma-ree, mar-ee ] The baby girl name Maree is pronounced as M-er-IY †. Maree has its origins in the Japanese and Hebrew languages, and it is used largely in English. Maree is a variant transcription of Mari. Maree is also an English spelling variant of Marie (Czech, English, French, and German). Maree is also a variant transcription of Mary (English). Maree is uncommon as a baby name for girls. It is not listed within the top 1000 names. In 2012, among the group of girl names directly related to Maree, Mary was the most widely used. 
Maree /ma-ree/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls. Maree's root is Latin, and the name Maree means star of the sea. Maree is an alternate spelling of Maria (Latin). Maree is also a variant of Marie (French, Latin). Maree is also used as a variant of Mary (Latin). Maree is an uncommon given name for females but a very popular last name for all people (#48293 out of 150436, Top 32%).