Haldol; haloperidol. Hypernyms (haloperidol is a kind of...): antipsychotic; antipsychotic agent; antipsychotic drug; major tranquilizer; major tranquilliser; major tranquillizer; neuroleptic; neuroleptic agent; neuroleptic drug (tranquilizer used to treat psychotic conditions when a calming effect is desired). • HALOPERIDOL (noun). The noun HALOPERIDOL has 1 sense: 1. tranquilizer (trade name Haldol) used to treat some psychotic disorders and Tourette's syndrome. Familiarity information: HALOPERIDOL used as a noun is very rare.
Haloperidol is also used for severe behavior problems in hyperactive children when other treatments or medications have not worked. Haloperidol is a psychiatric medication (antipsychotic-type) that works by helping to restore the balance of certain natural substances in the brain (neurotransmitters). Your doctor may prescribe another medication for you to take with haloperidol to decrease these side effects. Remember that your doctor has prescribed this medication because he or she has judged that the benefit to you is greater than the risk of
haloperidol (ˌhaeləˈpɛrɪˌdɒl). 1  ˌhæləˈpɛrɪˌdɒl a strong sedative that is used as a remedial treatment in several medical conditions Including'tourette s syndrome and senile ⇒ ■ Dementia massive doses of, haloperidol specific for, schizophrenia are the standard treatment for this condition in THE.  ussr 1 a strong sedative that is used as a remedial treatment in several medical conditions including Tourette's syndrome and senile dementia ⇒ ■ Massive doses of haloperidol, specific for schizophrenia, are the standard treatment for this condition in the USSR.
noun. 1  a strong sedative that is used as a remedial treatment in several medical conditions including Tourette's syndrome and senile dementia ⇒ ■ Massive doses of haloperidol, specific for schizophrenia, are the standard treatment for this condition in the USSR. 1 a strong sedative that is used as a remedial treatment in several medical conditions including Tourette's syndrome and senile dementia ⇒ ■ Massive doses of haloperidol, specific for schizophrenia, are the standard treatment for this condition in the USSR.
Haloperidol, marketed under the trade name Haldol among others, is a typical antipsychotic medication. It is used in the treatment of schizophrenia, tics in Tourette syndrome, nausea and vomiting, delirium, agitation, acute psychosis, and hallucinations in alcohol withdrawal. The yearly cost of the typical dose of haloperidol is about 20 to 800 pounds (30 to 1,250 US dollars) in the United Kingdom. The cost in the United States is around 250 US dollars. It is the most commonly used typical antipsychotic.
Synonyms: Haldol; haloperidol. Hypernyms (Haldol is a kind of...): antipsychotic; antipsychotic agent; antipsychotic drug; major tranquilizer; major tranquilliser; major tranquillizer; neuroleptic; neuroleptic agent; neuroleptic drug (tranquilizer used to treat psychotic conditions when a calming effect is desired). • HALDOL (noun). The noun HALDOL has 1 sense: 1. tranquilizer (trade name Haldol) used to treat some psychotic disorders and Tourette's syndrome. Familiarity information: HALDOL used as a noun is very rare.
haloperidol. [hal′ōper′ədol]. ədôl a butyrophenone. antipsychotic Indications it is prescribed in the treatment of, schizophrenia in the control of tics and verbal utterance Of'tourette s, syndrome in the treatment of severe behavioral problems in, children and as a sleep. aid