Best Answer: It really depends on where the oil is leaking from. Valve covers oil leaks or a leak from the oil pressure sending unit are the cheapest and easiest to fix. Oil leaks from oil pan, front seals and cam seals are more expensive. One of the more expensive seals would be the rear oil seal. Just depends on where it's leaking from. it depends where the leak is and from what part. a worn out gasket is inexpensive to replace, a leak from engine-transmission or transmission-drive shafts it might be a bit more expensive. in any case, the labor might be up to 75% of the total cost (parts are usually less expensive).
The average cost for an oil leak diagnosis is between $88 to $111. Labor costs are estimated between $88 to $111 while parts are priced between $0 to $0. Get a personalized estimate based on your location and specific car. Estimate does not include taxes and fees. - Common Symptoms. There are several systems that can leak oil. Each fluid tends to be a different color, which can help to identify the leaking system. 1  Engine oil tends to be brown or black. 2  It can be an amber color if it's new oil. 3  Power steering fluid can be many colors: clear, brown, green or red.
If you put a hole in the oil pan, then they would have to take it off and fix it. Then they would have to put in on with new oil pan gasket and oil change too. So a oil change may run just $20 at a cheap place. But the labor and everything, I would guesstimate at about $125. Dealer, $300. That is at a small garage, and not at the dealer. Well I went over some bump on my car a 2001 Daewoo nubira, and it wasnt till after i got to my friends house that i noticed it was leaking oil badly...then i jsut had to push my car home. Source(s): fixing oil leaks cost: https://trimurl.im/d66/how-much-does-fix...
1 For example, a less expensive job will come from a leak in the valve cover or oil pressure sending unit. 2  Minor expenses shouldn’t cost no more than $100 to $300. 3  Oil leaks that come from the pan or any of the seals can be more on the expensive end of the repair process. 1 Keep in mind that for something such as an oil leak, the labor will be 80 percent of the price. 2  For example, a less expensive job will come from a leak in the valve cover or oil pressure sending unit. 3  Minor expenses shouldn’t cost no more than $100 to $300.
1 On average, the price of an oil leak repair can be anywhere from $400 to as much as $1,800. 2  Keep in mind that for something such as an oil leak, the labor will be 80 percent of the price. 1 Keep in mind that for something such as an oil leak, the labor will be 80 percent of the price. 2  For example, a less expensive job will come from a leak in the valve cover or oil pressure sending unit. 3  Minor expenses shouldn’t cost no more than $100 to $300.
1 Since an oil leak can come from many various places, the mechanic will need to use different tools and strategies to reach the leak. 2  On average, the price of an oil leak repair can be anywhere from $400 to as much as $1,800. 3  Keep in mind that for something such as an oil leak, the labor will be 80 percent of the price. 1 Keep in mind that for something such as an oil leak, the labor will be 80 percent of the price. 2  For example, a less expensive job will come from a leak in the valve cover or oil pressure sending unit. 3  Minor expenses shouldn’t cost no more than $100 to $300.
If its just a valve cover gasket or oil pan gasket they are rather easy and cheaper to have replaced. 3rd, if it's just a small minor leak(doesn't leak much at all or is just wet) you can keep driving as long as you keep an eye on the oil level, at least every other day on so. Best Answer: 1st off, without proper diagnostics you cannot get a proper repair... with that being said... 2nd, depending on which gasket is leaking, make, model, and engine as well as labor costs as to how much its going to cost to fix. If its the head gasket, it will cost more and you will end up replacing other gaskets and seals in the process