Decaffeination processes for coffee [edit]. In the case of coffee, various methods can be used. The process is performed on unroasted (green) beans and starts with steaming of the beans. They are then rinsed with a solvent that extracts the caffeine while leaving other constituents largely unaffected. After this point, the caffeine is the only material removed from the beans, so no coffee strength or other flavorings are lost. Because water is used in the initial phase of this process, indirect method decaffeination is sometimes referred to as water-processed.
Report Abuse. It means it has reduced caffeine. The amounts of caffeine are considered not significant in decaf. But, if you drink 10 cups of decaf, you could be getting as much caffeine as 1 or even 2 cups of regular coffee. http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/200... therefore, unless you are five years old and extremely sensible to caffeine, a cup of decaf should be comparable to drinking a cup of water. also, as you probably noticed, when caffeine is extracted from coffee, the coffee loses much of the original flavor (kinda like normal beer is better than non-alcoholic beer).
For a tea to be legally labeled decaffeinated in the United States, 98% of the caffeine must be removed. This means one cup should contain less than 5 milligram of caffeine or 0.4% in dry weight. For caffeine sensitive individuals, drinking decaffeinated tea may seem an ideal way to enjoy tea health benefits without its side effects. Unfortunately, things do not quite work out this way.
Decaffeination is the removal of caffeine from coffee beans, cocoa, tea leaves and other caffeine-containing materials. After this point, the caffeine is the only material removed from the beans, so no coffee strength or other flavorings are lost. Because water is used in the initial phase of this process, indirect method decaffeination is sometimes referred to as water-processed.
When your coffee label states that the beans are naturally decaffeinated, it is referring to this process, specifically using ethyl acetate. Although it doesn't sound like a natural process, it can be labeled as such because the solvent occurs in nature. If your coffee is labeled naturally decaffeinated or Swiss water processed, you can be assured that no harmful chemicals are used. If you are uncertain, you can ask or call your coffee processor to learn about the method used. A direct decaffeination process involves the use of carbon dioxide as a solvent.
Tea Term of the Month: “Decaffeinated”. Posted by Arbor Teas on February 09, 2010. Decaffeinated tea is a great option for tea lovers who wish to avoid much of the caffeine naturally found in the tea leaf. All forms of tea (black, oolong, green, white, and pu-erh) can be decaffeinated; but really only black and green tea are regularly decaffeinated. It must be noted that decaffeinated tea is NOT caffeine free. The decaffeination process leaves a minute amount of caffeine in the leaf. By law, tea labeled as “decaffeinated” must have less than 2.5 percent of its original caffeine level. Currently, there are four methods of decaffeination: methylene chloride; ethyl acetate; carbon dioxide; and water processing. 
Decaf 'does not mean caffeine-free'. Coffee drinkers beware-decaffeinated is not the same as caffeine-free, according to a new study. In fact, researchers in Florida have discovered that almost all decaffeinated coffee contains some caffeine. 
Definition: Decaf is short for decaffeinated or decaffeination.. Contrary to popular belief, decaf is not the same as  caffeine free.. Most decaf coffee s and teas still contain at least trace amounts caffeine and (due to lack of enforcement of decaf health claims) some decaf drinks contain moderate amounts of caffeine or more.
The most commonly available decaffeinated green tea is naturally decaffeinated. It is made using a chemical solvent called ethyl acetate. During this process, tea leaves are soaked in water to release caffeine and other tea compounds. This means one cup should contain less than 5 milligram of caffeine or 0.4% in dry weight. For caffeine sensitive individuals, drinking decaffeinated tea may seem an ideal way to enjoy tea health benefits without its side effects. Unfortunately, things do not quite work out this way.
While many herbal infusions (or tisanes) are naturally caffeine free, decaf teas are teas that naturally contain caffeine, but have had most of the caffeine removed. Interesting side note: There is actually a naturally caffeine-free coffee out there. It's just very rare. Also Known As: decaffeinated, decaffeination. Contrary to popular belief, decaf is not the same as  caffeine free.. Most decaf coffee s and teas still contain at least trace amounts caffeine and (due to lack of enforcement of decaf health claims) some decaf drinks contain moderate amounts of caffeine or more.