The Different Types of Corporations. Before you incorporate your business, you'll need to decide which type of corporation is right for your company. In addition to the limited liability company (LLC) , Delaware offers several types of corporations: general, close and non-profit. Whether you have a large company, small family business or a not-for-profit organization, there are options for everyone when it comes to choosing corporation types. 
A limited liability company, commonly called an LLC, is a business structure that combines the pass-through taxation of a partnership or sole proprietorship with the limited liability of a corporation. Like owners of a corporation, however, all LLC owners are protected from personal liability for business debts and claims -- a feature known as limited liability.. This means that if the business owes money or faces a lawsuit, only the assets of the business itself are at risk.
Forming a corporation or LLC. To incorporate your business as a corporation or LLC, formation documents—Articles of Incorporation for corporations and Articles of Organization for LLCs—must be filed with the appropriate state agency. To formalize your organization, first learn about and decide which business type is right for you: 1  C corporation. 2  S corporation. 3  Limited liability company (LLC).
Once you decide to establish a business, a primary consideration is the type of business entity to form. Tax and liability issues, director and ownership concerns, as well as state and federal obligations pertaining to the type of entity should be considered when making your determination. To form a corporation in California, Articles of Incorporation must be filed with the California Secretary of State’s office. Forms for the most common types of Articles of Incorporation are available on our Forms, Samples and Fees webpage. You may use the form or prepare your own statutorily compliant document
A Limited Liability Company (LLC) is a hybrid business entity having certain characteristics of both a corporation and a partnership or sole proprietorship (depending on how many owners there are). An LLC, although a business entity, is a type of unincorporated association and is not a corporation. A limited liability company (LLC) is the United States-specific form of a private limited company.
The limited liability company (LLC) is the most popular entity type for small businesses. An LLC combines the personal liability protections of a corporation with the tax flexibility of a partnership. The LLC offers many advantages, including: 1  Pass-through taxation. C and S corporations are the most common types of corporations in the U.S. and they have a number of advantages. Both types of corporations separate the owners' personal assets from the company's liabilities. C corporations provide unlimited growth potential through the sale of common stock.
1 Limited liability company (LLC). 2  Another business type that is formed under state law and gives you personal liability protection is the LLC. 3  Tax-wise, an LLC is similar to an S corporation (or S corp), with business income and expenses reported on your personal tax return. To formalize your organization, first learn about and decide which business type is right for you: 1  C corporation. 2  S corporation. 3 
1 Another business type that is formed under state law and gives you personal liability protection is the LLC. 2  Tax-wise, an LLC is similar to an S corporation (or S corp), with business income and expenses reported on your personal tax return. 3  If you are the only owner of an LLC, you are viewed as a “disregarded” entity. To formalize your organization, first learn about and decide which business type is right for you: 1  C corporation. 2  S corporation. 3  Limited liability company (LLC).
Corporations Compared to LLCs. Limited liability companies (LLCs) are one of the newest types of business entities. Like corporations, they offer many benefits over partnerships and sole proprietorships. Whether an LLC or a corporation is better for a small business depends on the type of business. The best comparison here is between an LLC and an S corporation, because an LLC can choose to be taxed as an S corporation. Social Security Taxes. The owners of an LLC can be foreign persons, other corporations, or any kind of trust, whereas the owners of S corporations cannot. An LLC may have an unlimited number of members, while an S corporation is limited to one hundred.