CLEVELAND, Ohio-Sam Sheppard's murder case documents, including trial transcripts, police investigations and coroner reports, are now online – and sure to draw interest in a case that continues to captivate the nation. 
CLEVELAND (CNN) -- New genetic tests provide conclusive evidence that blood found on Dr. Sam Sheppard's pants and in his home was not his own, pointing toward an intruder as the person who bludgeoned to death Sheppard's wife in 1954, a lawyer for Sheppard's son said Thursday. He believes his mother's killer is Richard Eberling, a former window washer at his parents' home. 'Blood could only have come from the killer' The trail of blood (found at the home) could only have come from the killer. The trail of blood did not come from Marilyn, said Terry Gilbert, an attorney for Sheppard's son.
During the investigation of the Sheppard’s home, investigators discovered a fingerprint on the headboard of Marilyn’s bed. Jerome Poelking testified in court that the finger print he recovered from the bedroom identically matched Sam Sheppard’s left thumb. (Linder, 2006, p. 1). Due to the brutality of the crime a lot of blood was found in Mrs. Sheppard's room. In order to examine all the blood at the crime scene, a proper collection of evidence would have had to occur. The main goal of collecting blood evidence is to have minimal contact in order not to contaminate the evidence.
Samuel Holmes Sam Sheppard ((1923-12-29) December 29, 1923 – April 6, 1970 (1970-04-06)) was an American osteopathic physician and, toward the end of his life, a professional wrestler. He was convicted in 1954 of the brutal murder of his pregnant wife, Marilyn Reese Sheppard, at their Bay Village, Ohio, home. In 2000, Sheppard's son, Sam Reese Sheppard, who was seven at the time of his mother's murder, sued the state of Ohio for his father's alleged wrongful imprisonment. After a ten-week trial, a civil jury returned a unanimous verdict that Sam Reese Sheppard had failed to prove his father had been wrongfully imprisoned
The trial of Sam Sheppard opened on October 18, 1954 in the Cleveland courtroom of seventy-year-old Judge Edward Blythin. Celebrity journalists flocked to the city for a trial that promised sex, mystery, and intrigue in abundance. In the month after the jury returned its verdict of guilty, Sam's mother committed suicide and his father died of cancer. The Ohio courts rejected his appeals. His pre-trial nemesis, Cleveland Press editor Louis Seltzer, published an autobiography trumpeting his role in bringing Sheppard to justice.
DNA evidence, which was not available in the two murder trials, played an important role in the civil trial. DNA analysis of blood at the crime scene showed that there was presence of blood from a third person, other than Marilyn and Dr. Sam Sheppard. In 2000, Sheppard's son, Sam Reese Sheppard, who was seven at the time of his mother's murder, sued the state of Ohio for his father's alleged wrongful imprisonment. After a ten-week trial, a civil jury returned a unanimous verdict that Sam Reese Sheppard had failed to prove his father had been wrongfully imprisone
Examiners in the Sam Sheppard case were able to use this technique to type the blood found at the crime scene. It was determined that both Sam and Marilyn Sheppard were grouped to have Type A blood. All blood found was Type A blood, except in two spots. The one spot which was the largest blood spot in the bedroom was found on the closet door near Marilyn’s bed. (Linder, 2006, p. 1) The second spot that blood was found and was not Type A was on the knee of Sam Sheppard’s trouser pants. Due to the brutality of the crime a lot of blood was found in Mrs. Sheppard's room. In order to examine all the blood at the crime scene, a proper collection of evidence would have had to occur. The main goal of collecting blood evidence is to have minimal contact in order not to contaminate the evidence.
Pursuant to a judge's order, both the bodies of Marilyn Sheppard and Sam Sheppard were exhumed for DNA and forensic analysis. In 2000, in an eight-week trial, a civil jury reconsidered the evidence of Sam Sheppard's guilt. Sheppard's legal team argued Eberling was the actual killer. They suggested that the murder followed an attempted sexual assault, which Marilyn fiercely resisted. In the month after the jury returned its verdict of guilty, Sam's mother committed suicide and his father died of cancer. The Ohio courts rejected his appeals. His pre-trial nemesis, Cleveland Press editor Louis Seltzer, published an autobiography trumpeting his role in bringing Sheppard to justice.
The murder of Marilyn Sheppard and the controversial murder trial of Sam Sheppard in 1954 drew widespread, nationwide attention from the media, creating what the U.S. Supreme Court later described as a carnival atmosphere which denied Sheppard his right to due process. In 2000, Sheppard's son, Sam Reese Sheppard, who was seven at the time of his mother's murder, sued the state of Ohio for his father's alleged wrongful imprisonment. After a ten-week trial, a civil jury returned a unanimous verdict that Sam Reese Sheppard had failed to prove his father had been wrongfully imprisoned