Promax Lean is a protein enriched shake formulated to support lean muscle definition. It is an all-in-one shake that supplies the body with a high amount of protein without exceeding in caloric delivery. There are 5 important ingredients that make Promax Lean what it is. Here they are: BioMAX Whey Protein. This is a proprietary blend of high quality whey protein formulated to assist the body in defining the muscles and support growth.
MaxiNutrition Promax Lean is essentially a whey protein powder with some added ‘special’ ingredients to support weight loss. I’ve used Promax Lean a number of times and have always been very impressed with the results. Obviously you need to complement this supplement with a high-protein, low-calorie diet and regular workouts. Otherwise you’re just going to be pissing into the breeze.
Promax Lean is a product of MaxiMuscle, a brand owned by the company MaxiNutrition. MaxiNutrition is considered to be the European leader in sports nutrition. It was established in 1995 and today has developed other brands like Maxitone, Maxiraw, Maxifuel. There are 5 important ingredients that make Promax Lean what it is. Here they are: BioMAX Whey Protein. This is a proprietary blend of high quality whey protein formulated to assist the body in defining the muscles and support growth.
Supplied as an all-in-one shake, Promax lean will help you achieve a lean and defined body. Promax Lean is a blend of BioMAX whey protein s, caffeine and other active ingredients. It contains easily digestible whey protein s to provide the highest quality protein to support muscle definition. As part of a balanced routine of nutrition and training, Promax Lean can help you towards your goals.
Summary. MaxiNutrition Promax Lean is a high-quality protein supplement which helps enhance weight loss, energy levels and lean muscle gains, helping you to become more shredded than Mrs Wolverine’s panty drawer. I’ve used Promax Lean a number of times and have always been very impressed with the results. Obviously you need to complement this supplement with a high-protein, low-calorie diet and regular workouts. Otherwise you’re just going to be pissing into the breeze.
Every serving of PROMAX LEAN delivers 30g of protein using a triple release protein formula, providing a fast and sustained release of amino acids. Designed to support your lean muscle defi nition goals, PROMAX LEAN is a convenient compliment to your daily diet. PROMAX LEAN is a protein-rich shake, designed to support your goals for a defi ned physique. Every serving is low in fat and contains a source of specially selected B-vitamins and L-carnitine along with 30g of our high-quality protein formula to maintain lean muscle to support your lean muscle definition goals. PROMAX LEAN contains both fast acting and slow release proteins to support your goals for lean muscle definition, making you stronger. Why Promax Lean. At MaxiNutrition we understand what it takes to achieve a great physique.
Promax Lean is the all-in-one shake designed to help you achieve a lean and defined body. It is formulated to deliver a high protein load without excess calories, giving you the nutrition to reach your goals. Promax Lean is a blend of BioMAX whey proteins, caffeine and other active ingredients. It contains easily digestible whey proteins to provide the highest quality protein to support muscle definition. As part of a balanced routine of nutrition and training, Promax Lean can help you towards your goals. PLEASE NOTE: Promax Lean contains many proven active ingredients, but are not weight loss shakes. The protein shakes are a lean definition support designed to help you get results as part of a balanced weight loss or definition plan.
MaxiNutrition Promax Lean (3 flavours available) contains easily digestable whey protein s to provide the highest quality protein s to support muscle definition. It contains easily digestible whey protein s to provide the highest quality protein to support muscle definition. As part of a balanced routine of nutrition and training, Promax Lean can help you towards your goals.
With 38g of BioMAX whey protein, Promax Lean contains a proprietary blend of high quality whey proteins, easily absorbed by the body to support muscle definition and recovery. PLEASE NOTE: Promax Lean contains many proven active ingredients, but are not weight loss shakes. The protein shakes are a lean definition support designed to help you get results as part of a balanced weight loss or definition plan.
To get Paul's diet and workout plans for Lean Definition, and to learn more about the Maximuscle products he used to supplement his diet and achieve his goals, go to www.Maximuscle.sg now! This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. Maximuscle Ambassador Paul Foster took on the New Body Lean Definition Challenge as he set out to shred fat and get ripped. In 30 Days, he achieved an amazing 15.9% decrease in Body Fat with 3.2kg loss in Body Weight and 1.8% increase in Muscle Mass!