Cellular respiration is a series of metabolic processes which all living cells use to produce energy in the form of ATP. In cellular respiration, the cell breaks down glucose to produce large amounts of energy in the form of ATP. Cellular respiration can take two paths: aerobic respiration or anaerobic respiration. Aerobic respiration occurs when oxygen is available, whereas anaerobic respiration occurs when oxygen is not available.
Cellular respiration is a series of set of metabolic reactions and processes. These reactions takes place in the cells of organisms, where the organisms convert biochemical energy from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate. 
Cellular Respiration: is the process that releases energy by breaking down food molecules in the presence of oxygen. Cellular Respiration = Aerobic Respiration. Aerobic respiration occurs in the mitochondria. Some of the energy released by breaking food down is stored as ATP, while some is released as heat. ATP is a short-term energy storage molecule all cells use as their energy source. 
ATP and cells. The hydrolysis of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and phosphoric acid (Pi) releases energy (it is an exergonic reaction). Some chemical reactions that occur in cells require energy. Hydrolysis reactions of ATP can provide this energy. During glycolysis, glucose molecules (six-carbon molecules) are split into two pyruvates (three-carbon molecules) during a sequence of enzyme-controlled reactions. This is the same reaction as occurs in aerobic respiration.
ALL cellular work-all the activities of life-requires energy, either from ATP or from related molecules. A lot of oxygen is required for this process! The sugar AND the oxygen are delivered to your cells via your bloodstream. This process occurs partially in the cytoplasm, and partially in the mitochondria. 
The main reactants of cellular respiration are: glucose(C6 H12 O6), water(6H2 O) and oxygen(6O2). The products of cellular respiration are: carbon dioxide (6C O2), water(12H2 … O) and Energy (36 ATP). The reactants in the equation for cellular respiration are oxygen (O2) and glucose (C6H12O6).
Cellular respiration is the set of metabolic reactions and processes that take place in the cells of organisms to convert biochemical energy from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate (ATP), and then release waste products. The overall reaction occurs in a series of biochemical steps, most of which are redox reactions themselves. Although technically, cellular respiration is a combustion reaction, it clearly does not resemble one when it occurs in a living cell due to slow release of energy from the series of reactions.
Cellular respiration is the process of oxidizing food molecules, like glucose, to carbon dioxide and water. C6H12O6 + 6O2 + 6H2O → 12H2O + 6 CO2. The energy released is trapped in the form of ATP for use by all the energy-consuming activities of the cell. 1  glycolysis, the breakdown of glucose to pyruvic acid. 2  the complete oxidation of pyruvic acid to carbon dioxide and water.
The reactions involved in respiration are catabolic reactions, which break large molecules into smaller ones, releasing energy in the process, as weak so-called high-energy bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the products. Respiration is one of the key ways a cell gains useful energy to fuel cellular activity. The overall reaction occurs in a series of biochemical steps, most of which are redox reactions themselves. Although technically, cellular respiration is a combustion reaction, it clearly does not resemble one when it occurs in a living cell due to slow release of energy from the series of reactions.