Most vehicles have sequentially issued standard license plates that remain with the vehicle when ownership is transferred. If the license plate is a special interest or personalized license plate, you must decide if you want to retain the plate for use on another vehicle, or release your interest in the plate.
You will need your current registration or license plate number, your title to the vehicle to which you want to transfer the license plate (your copy of the title application will be sufficient if you recently applied for your title), and $8.
You still would need to register the new car with the DMV so that the plate number pulls up the correct vehicle if your tag is looked up by police.
License plates are tied to specific cars. You have to register your new car with the DMV, they will issue you new plates. If you purchased your car from a dealer they probably already registered the vehicle and are just waiting on the plates.
If you have New Jersey plates that are not in use you must surrender them to MVC for cancellation. License plates from other states must be returned to the state that issued the plates. MVC does not accept out-of-state plates.
1 Remove or invalidate the month and year tabs, bend the plates so they can’t be used on a vehicle, and recycle them so they can’t be confused with a valid Washington license plate. 2  Don’t put them in curbside recycling unless you contact the recycler first to see if the plates will be accepted.
I just need to defer paying sales tax for a month or 2, but need to... show more Just bought a car from a private seller (I live in MO). I paid cash, so I'm cleaned out for a month or 2. Can I just use the plates from my old car for a month until I have the money to pay the sales tax on the new one when I register it.
Temporary Tags. If you are buying a car and don't have a license plate to transfer, you can get a temporary tag from a PennDOT office. Your vehicle dealer may also be able to issue a temporary tag. Temporary tags are good for 90 days.