Dr. Bijan Bijan, MD http://d1ffafozi03i4l.cloudfront.net/img/silhouettes/silhouette-male_w120h160_v1.jpg Visit Healthgrades for information on Dr. Bijan Bijan, MD. 
Continue reading the main story. Bijan Pakzad, the ritzy fashion designer whose by-appointment-only Rodeo Drive boutique is billed as “the most expensive store in the world,” died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 71. Mr. Pakzad had a stroke on Thursday and was admitted to Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, his company said in a statement. 
About. Bijan Anjomi is an internationally known author, healer, personal coach, speakers and visionary who is making a difference for world peace and is the founder of Effortless Prosperity. 
Pictures. Bijan is a female fragrance launched in 1986. It was created in the cooperation with Peter Bohm, and it opens in notes of ylang-ylang, narcissus, orange blossom, bergamot, neroli and pimeto. There is Persian jasmine, Bulgarian rose, lily-of-the-valley, carnation, honey, orrisroot and tuberose at the heart. 
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Bijan in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Bijan in Nautical Flags page. 
Bijan Perfume by Bijan, Launched by the design house of bijan in 1987, bijan is classified as a refined, oriental, woody fragrance. This feminine scent possesses a blend of sandalwood, oakmoss, and orange flower. It is recommended for evening wear. All products are original, authentic name brands. 
Fashion Icon Bijan Suffers a Stroke. Fashion designer Bijan Pakzad is hospitalized after suffering a stroke at his Beverly Hills home.According to sources Bijan was transported to Cedars-Sinai Medical Center Thursday evening. 
Bijan Pakzad Net Worth is $50 Million. Bijan Pakzad generally known simply as Bijan was an Iranian designer of menswear and fragrances. Bijan Pakzad earned his net worth from his ... [read more]. 
Bijan. There is music coming..video coming.. and maybe ill make up a dance. if i was a chick i'd make a sex tape: ‪#‎viral‬ ...but in the mean time this will hold u over....Thank you for your patience. 
Bijan Pakzad net worth: $50 Million. Bijan Pakzad Net North: Bijan Pakzad is an Iranian designer of menswear and fragrances who has a net worth of $50 million. Bijan Pakzad, who became known to the public as simply 'Bijan', was born April 4, 1944 in Tehran, Iran.