Means dawning, shining in Hebrew. This is the name of a son of Judah and the twin of Perez in the Old Testament.
[ syll. ze-rah, zer-ah ] The baby girl name Zerah is pronounced Z-erAH- †. Zerah has its origins in the Hebrew language. Zerah is a variant transcription of Zera (African, Hebrew, and Swahili). Zerah is seldom used as a baby name for girls. It is not listed within the top 1000 names
Biblical Meaning: The name Zerah is a Biblical baby name. In Biblical the meaning of the name Zerah is: East, brightness. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 4. People with this name have a deep inner desire for a stable, loving family or community, and a need to work with others and to be appreciated.
Please use this list of Hebrew baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Zerah in Hebrew origin/culture for Boy name with history and fame details.
Zerah was the name of an Edomite Chief. He was listed as the second son of Reuel, son of Basemath, who was Ishmael's daughter and one of the wives of Esau the brother of Jacob (Israel) (Genesis 36:13 and 36:17). Zerah is also listed as the ancestor of Achan, who was stoned to death as recounted in the Book of Joshua (Joshua 7:18 and 7:24, where Achan is called the son of Zerah, skipping the father and grandfather). The Bible also identifies Zerah as the name of the founder of one of the Simeonite clans.
The name Zerah in the Bible. The name Zerah is assigned five (or six) times in the Bible: 1  A chief of Edom and son of Reuel, son of Esau and Basemath (Genesis 33:17 — possibly the same as the next). 2  The father of Jobab, successor of Bela a king of Edom, who came from Bozrah (Genesis 36:33). 1 This Zerah is mentioned by Matthew (spelled in Greek as ζαρα, Zara) in the genealogy of Christ as one of two men mentioned that are not directly in Christ's line of descent (Matthew 1:3; the other one being Uriah, who's the only one mentioned who's not at all related to Jesus).
Zerah is an uncommon given name for males. Zerah is a unique surname too for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Zerah for boys. Zerah has yet to be listed in the Top 1000 thus far.
Zerah /zer-ah/ [2 sylls.] as a name for boys is of Hebrew origin, and the name Zerah means glowing. Zerah is a version of Zerach (Hebrew). Zerah is a unique surname too for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Zerah for boys. Zerah has yet to be listed in the Top 1000 thus far.