In his e-mail to Limbaugh, Ciancio relays the story of a grandmother in Illinois who he claims is the foster parent to her eight grandchildren and receives $1,500 per child per month for a total of $144,000 a year.
The basic foster care rates currently range from $657 to $820 per month, depending on the age of the child. For children who have special requirements, there is a specialized care increment, ranging from $79 up to $840 per month, determined by the child’s social worker.
We’ve established that relatives who are foster parents receive between $286 and $471 per month per child, and that any additional money for special-needs children is paid directly to the health care providers.
DCFS agrees and states that the child or children will need to go to foster care. The grandma then volunteers to be the foster parent, and thus receives a check for $1500 per child per month in Illinois.
A foster care subsidy is to care for the foster child’s needs. It is not to be thought of as an income for the fostering family. It is often barely enough to cover the monthly needs of the foster child. Do not note the foster care subsidy on loan applications as income. Remember, the foster care agency is not the foster parent's employer.
Amount-With the Child Tax Credit, you may be able to reduce your federal income tax by up to $1,000 for each qualifying child under the age of 17. Qualification-A qualifying child for this credit is someone who meets the qualifying criteria of six tests: age, relationship, support, dependent, citizenship, and residence.
As foster parents we never know when a child will move from our home or when a new foster child will be placed in our home. It may be devastating financially for a foster family to start depending on the foster care subsidy as income and then for that child to move into a new home.
As a foster parent, the foster care system will provide a foster care subsidy, a monthly amount of money, for each foster child within the home. All too often individuals become foster parents thinking that foster care will become a job or will provide an income for their family. This is not the case.