The three clinical forms of influenza pneumonia are primary influenza pneumonia, secondary bacterial pneumonia, and mixed viral and bacterial pneumonia. Primary influenza pneumonia manifests with persistent symptoms of cough, sore throat, headache, myalgia, and malaise for more than 3-5 days. The common constitutional symptoms of viral pneumonias are fever, chills, nonproductive cough, rhinitis, myalgias, headaches, and fatigue. Symptoms of viral pneumonia are similar to that of bacterial pneumonia, although studies have shown a lower probability of having chest pain and rigors in viral pneumonias.
Posted by Richard Horgan in Pneumonia. Bacterial pneumonia, which is one of five major categories of the disease, has an incubation period of one to three days.(1) The other major forms of pneumonia come from viruses, mycoplasmas, chemicals, and other infectious agents such as fungi. The second and third are much rarer, and really only crop up when there is some kind of localized influenza epidemic. Serious cases of bacterial pneumonia can cause a person’s body temperature to rise as high as 105 degrees.
Organism Incubation period Respiratory syncytial virus 1 to 4 days Influenza virus 18 to 72 hours Streptococcus pneumonia 1-3 days Klebsiella Pneumonia 1-3 days Mycoplasma Pneumonia 2-10 days. Incubation period can be defined as the time taken from being infected with the bacteria or virus to development of symptoms. The incubation period for the most of the bacteria and viruses which cause pneumonia ranges from 1 day to 1 week.
After you've been infected with a pneumonia-causing organism, it takes as little as 1 to 3 days or as long as 7 to 10 days for symptoms to appear. How severe pneumonia is and how long it lasts depend on: 1  Your age and health. 2  Older, sicker people usually have more severe cases. 1 And their cases of pneumonia are more likely to cause complications, such as bacteria in the bloodstream (bacteremia) or throughout the body (septicemia). 2  Whether bacteria or a virus caused the pneumonia. 3  Viral pneumonia usually is less severe than bacterial pneumonia. 4  How quickly you treat it.
The incubation period is 2-5 days, with a mean of 3 days. Symptoms are similar to those from other respiratory viruses, including cough, rhinorrhea, sore throat, headache, and malaise, although fever was only seen in 21-23% of cases. The common constitutional symptoms of viral pneumonias are fever, chills, nonproductive cough, rhinitis, myalgias, headaches, and fatigue. Symptoms of viral pneumonia are similar to that of bacterial pneumonia, although studies have shown a lower probability of having chest pain and rigors in viral pneumonias.
The typical incubation period for influenza is 1—4 days (average: 2 days). Most healthy adults may be able to infect others beginning 1 day before symptoms develop and up to 5 to 7 days after becoming sick. 
Between 60% and 80% of bacterial pneumonia is caused by the organisms known scientifically as Streptococcus pneumoniae. The second and third are much rarer, and really only crop up when there is some kind of localized influenza epidemic. Serious cases of bacterial pneumonia can cause a person’s body temperature to rise as high as 105 degrees.
In theory, the contagious period for pneumonia lasts about two weeks, although a person tends to be most contagious when symptoms are at their worst -- which is usually around day two to four of the infection. A person with either viral or bacterial pneumonia is contagious. However, that person's germs are more likely to cause an upper respiratory infection (such as the common cold or the flu) in another person than pneumonia. Many of the viruses and bacteria that cause pneumonia are the same ones that cause upper respiratory infections. These germs are usually found in the mouth and nose of the infected person. They can be spread easily to another person, either through the air or by touching a contaminated surface.
Factors which determine the incubation period include the type of bacteria or virus causing pneumonia, age of the person and overall health. The incubation period for the most of the bacteria and viruses which cause pneumonia ranges from 1 day to 1 week. Incubation period of some of the common bacteria and virus are given in table 1. Organism. Incubation period. Respiratory syncytial virus. 1 to 4 days