The soma is where the signals from the dendrites are joined and passed on. The soma and the nucleus do not play an active role in the transmission of the neural signal. Instead, these two structures serve to maintain the cell and keep the neuron functional. The axon hillock is located and the end of the soma and controls the firing of the neuron. If the total strength of the signal exceeds the threshold limit of the axon hillock, the structure will fire a signal down the axon.
This nervous system is composed of billions of cells, the most essential being the nerve cells or neurons. There are estimated to be as many as 100 billion neurons in our nervous system! A typical neuron has all the parts that any cell would have, and a few specialized structures that set it apart. The main portion of the cell is called the soma or cell body. It contains the nucleus, which in turn contains the genetic material in the form of chromosome
Basically, dendrites, cell body (soma), and axon. In addition, the part of the soma leading to the axon is called the axon hillock, and the first part of the axon is called th … e initial segment (where the action potential or spike or firing of the neuron occurs). Of course, all the rest of the normal parts and organelles of a cell are present too. The axon hillock is located and the end of the soma and controls the firing of the neuron. If the total strength of the signal exceeds the threshold limit of the axon hillock, the structure will fire a signal down the axon.
At the cellular level, the nervous system consists of a special type of cell, called the neuron, also known as a nerve cell. The neurons connect to each other using a synapse (which is a structure that acts like a pathway connection that transmits the signals to the other cells) to form the nervous system. Dendrites are extensions of the cell with many branches, whose structure can be called as a dendritic tree . They project from the cell body and are sometimes referred to as fibres. They are also called as afferent processes because they transmit impulses to the neuron cell body.
A typical neuron consists of a cell body (soma), dendrites, and an axon. The term neurite is used to describe either a dendrite or an axon, particularly in its undifferentiated stage. At the majority of synapses, signals are sent from the axon of one neuron to a dendrite of another. There are, however, many exceptions to these rules: neurons that lack dendrites, neurons that have no axon, synapses that connect an axon to another axon or a dendrite to another dendrite, etc.
Neuron is the main cell of the Nervous System. It is an electrical excitable cell that is responsible for the transmision of the nerve impulse. With it, they process (in the brain, ganglia and spinal cord) and transmit information. A human brain has 100.000 millions of neurons. 1 It is very similar to other body cells, except for the difference that neurons do not replicate. 2  Axon: it is the longest and most important part of the neuron, it transmit the impulse. 3  A neuron has one only axon.
The other type of cell is glia, which protects the former. Neurons have three main parts: 1  Cell body or Soma: it is the main part of the cell, the one that makes all metabolism and functions. 2  It is very similar to other body cells, except for the difference that neurons do not replicate. 3  Axon: it is the longest and most important part of the neuron, it transmit the impulse. 1 It is very similar to other body cells, except for the difference that neurons do not replicate. 2  Axon: it is the longest and most important part of the neuron, it transmit the impulse. 3  A neuron has one only axon.
In the nervous system, a synapse is a structure that permits a neuron (or nerve cell) to pass an electrical or chemical signal to another neuron. In many synapses, the presynaptic part is located on an axon, but some postsynaptic sites are located on a dendrite or soma. Astrocytes also exchange information with the synaptic neurons, responding to synaptic activity and, in turn, regulating neurotransmission.
Neuron have following structures Dendrites are treelike extensions at the beginning of a neuron that help increase the surface area of the cell body and are covered with synapses. These tiny protrusions receive information from other neurons and transmit electrical stimulation to the soma. The axon hillock is located and the end of the soma and controls the firing of the neuron. If the total strength of the signal exceeds the threshold limit of the axon hillock, the structure will fire a signal down the axon.
Answers. Best Answer: The sodium channel is not part of the neuron cell. In excitable cells such as neurons, sodium channels are responsible for the rising phase of action potential.Sodium channels are integral membrane proteins that form ion channels. The sodiium channel is part of a process to form ion channels. So while there are sodium channels, it is not a anatomical structure as the other choices. Source(s): joe h · 7 years ago.