In the trachea, or windpipe, there are tracheal rings, also known as tracheal cartilages. Cartilage is strong but flexible tissue. The tracheal cartilages help support the trachea while still allowing it to move and flex during breathing. The tracheal cartilages have an order, starting with the peculiar tracheal cartilages. These are the first and last rings in the trachea. The first cartilage is broad and divided at the end. It sometimes blends in with the following cartilage, depending on the structure of
5. Trachea. The trachea is a cartilage tube and represents the initial part of the lower respiratory tract. It connects the pharynx and larynx to the lungs and allows normal passage of the air to and from the lungs. This tube is approximately 3.9 to 6.3 inches long and its inner diameter is around 0.83 to 1.1 inches. 
The 'c' shaped cartilage rings are present in the trachea to prevent it from collapsing and they keep the trachea open for air to come in and out. The Trachea (also known as the wind pipe) has cartilage rings on it. This prevents the pipe collapsing on itself. If the trachea did collapse, it would disallow us from breath … ing. Also the trachea might collapse and damage the esophagus (also known as the food pipe) which is behind it.
Introduction. The trachea is the tube linking the cricoid cartilage of the larynx to the bronchi, forming part of the conducting system which transports air from the external environment to the lungs. The oesophagus lies dorsally to the trachea. 
The trachea (or windpipe) is a wide, hollow tube that connects the larynx (or voice box) to the bronchi of the lungs. It is an integral part of the body’s airway and has the vital function of providing air flow to and from the lungs for respiration. 
Get help from a doctor now ›. Support: The cartilage rings (which aren't really rings because they don't go all the way around) give support to the trachea so it doesn't collapse during respiration and give some protection as well. Bronchi (Definition). Bronchi is also known as Bronchus. Bronchi are the major passageways through which air passes in and out of the lung. The bronchi divide into smaller passageways to distribute air throughout the lung. It is like a system of tubes that divide and spread out through the lungs.
The trachea is an important structure within your respiratory system, which is the organ system that delivers oxygen to your bloodstream. The trachea is a rigid tube that conducts air from your larynx to your bronchi. The trachea's rigidity is maintained by a series of cartilaginous rings arranged along its length called C-shaped cartilage rings. These cartilage rings are C-shaped to provide room for your esophagus, which lies along the backside of your trachea. The gaps between the cartilage rings are bridged by a tough elastic membrane. The trachea is very resistant to compression, but it is capable of stretching lengthwise.
The trachea is made of smooth MUSCLE tissue along the back wall with 16 to 20 C-shaped bands of CARTILAGE running along its length. The cartilage rings give the trachea stability and resistance against the pressure of air flow into and out of the lungs. 
Trachea. The trachea is a wide flexible tube, the lumen of which is kept open by 20 tracheal cartilages, which are C-shaped rings of hyaline cartilage. The gaps between the rings of cartilage are filled by the trachealis muscle-a bundle of smooth muscle, and fibroelastic tissue.
The cartilage rings in the trachea prevent the trachea from collapsing during absence of air and also protect it. These cartilagenous ring are C shaped and are meant for particular purposes such as: 1  they give support and strength to the trachea. 2  they prevent from collapsing and breaking. 