Kousa dogwood trees (C. kousa) grow to a height and width of 20 to 25 feet, according to the Clemson University Extension. This dogwood species displays bracts and flowers in the spring in colors of cream/white that may become pink as trees become established. Green leaves turn purple, red or yellow during autumn. Cornelian Cherry Dogwood. Cornelian cherry dogwood trees (C. mas) grow to a height of 20 to 25 feet with a width of 15 to 20 feet, according to the Clemson University Extension. This species displays showy flowers during the end of winter and beginning of spring.
Cornelian cherry dogwood trees (C. mas) grow to a height of 20 to 25 feet with a width of 15 to 20 feet, according to the Clemson University Extension. Cornelian Cherry Dogwood. Cornelian cherry dogwood trees (C. mas) grow to a height of 20 to 25 feet with a width of 15 to 20 feet, according to the Clemson University Extension. This species displays showy flowers during the end of winter and beginning of spring.
The height ranges from 15 to 20 feet tall (flowering dogwood in the sun) to 40 feet tall (flowering dogwood in the shade). The spread may be even greater than the height. Growth Rate: Dogwoods grow at a slow to moderate rate (about 20 feet in 25 years). Flowering Dogwood (C. florida). Mature Height/Spread: The flowering dogwood will grow 40 feet tall when grown as an understory tree in a woodland setting. In the sun, the same tree may only grow 15 to 20 feet tall and wide. Spread can be greater than height at maturity. It can be grown as a single or multi-trunk tree.
Japanese Kousa dogwoods (Cornus kousa) are small deciduous trees that reach about 15-30 feet tall and wide, depending on the variety. They naturally grow in a pleasing umbrella shape that works well as a specimen or border tree. 
Dogwood trees are flowering trees that reach a height range of 15 to 40 feet. When grown in the sun, these deciduous trees reach a height of 15 to 20 feet, but when grown in the shade, they grow up to 40 feet. Tree width equals or exceeds the height. Cornelian Cherry Dogwood. Cornelian cherry dogwood trees (C. mas) grow to a height of 20 to 25 feet with a width of 15 to 20 feet, according to the Clemson University Extension. This species displays showy flowers during the end of winter and beginning of spring.
Many other dogwood tree species are available and, although the height of most species is limited to under 40 feet, the spread, or width, of the trees will vary widely according to species, light and location. The most important factor for dogwood growth is sunlight. Dogwoods grown in full sun will be shorter but will often have more branches, resulting in a fuller, wider tree that is often wider than it is tall.