1 Kosher for Passover does not mean milk-free or safe for your child. 2  Kosher labeling does not address cross contact issues, therefore it's possible that traces of allergens may be in kosher foods, just like any other manufactured foods. Some things to be aware of: 1  Kosher labeling in general cannot be used as a guide to determine whether a product does or does not contain milk. 2  ¹. 3 
For example, meat and dairy are never prepared or packaged together in kosher-certified foods. A pareve kosher food has no meat or dairy Kosher products labeled for Passover may contain matzos (baked wheat flour) but no other hidden forms of wheat, oats, rye, spelt, and barley. They generally also do not contain any ingredients derived from corn, soy, rice, peanuts or legume
Dairy products, of course, also may not contain non-kosher additives, and they may not include meat products or derivatives (for example, many types of cheese are manufactured with animal fats). Additionally, a number of pre-processed foods contain small portions of milk products, such as whey. According to food product regulations, such tiny additives do not have to be declared on the packaging but may nevertheless render the product non-kosher. This applies especially to bread.
Kosher Labeling and Milk or Dairy Allergy. Kosher foods are foods which meet Jewish dietary laws. These dietary laws prohibit the consumption of certain foods, require that foods be processed in certain ways, and, most importantly for the food allergic, prohibit the mixing of dairy products and meat products. 1 From the food allergy perspective, these foods may be cross-contaminated with dairy ingredients. 2  Kosher foods that are considered neutral (i.e. not dairy or meat) have the word Pareve or Parve after the Kosher symbol. 3  Note: under Kosher laws, fish is considered to be neutral.
The laws of kosher permit 1/60th part of a food to contain accidental dairy and still be considered meat or pareve. However, the major hechshers, such as OU, are aware that their certification is used by people with milk allergy and therefore have a zero-tolerance policy. 
1 Kosher for Passover foods often contain eggs and nuts. 2  In fact, eggs and nuts abound during Passover. 3  If you do want to buy Kosher for Passover foods, shop early and go often as the availability varies in the weeks leading up to Passover. Some things to be aware of: 1  Kosher labeling in general cannot be used as a guide to determine whether a product does or does not contain milk. 2  ¹. 3  Kosher for Passover does not mean milk-free or safe for your child.
A cookie may not list milk as an ingredient, but includes casein, which is a milk derivative. Ice cream may not list eggs, but does list lecithin (which can be egg or soy). Hydrolyzed vegetable protein could be peanut or soy based. Many soy based cheeses contain whey (milk). Some ingredients can have multiple sources. For example, modified food starch can be derived from soy, wheat, peanut, corn or other foods. Manufacturing and Packaging Processes Often, the ingredients in the food products are safe, but the manufacturing equipment or packaging procedures use allergens such as wheat or cornstarch. Current labeling laws do not require this information to be included on labels.
Examples are products made without corn or soy. For some families managing restricted diets, Kosher for Passover foods can offer options not available otherwise. Kosher for Passover foods can be particularly helpful to those managing corn allergy or both milk and soy allergy. For those managing other food allergies, Kosher for Passover foods may not be all that useful. You can buy Kosher for Passover foods in bulk and then freeze or store for use the rest of the year. Some things to be aware of: 1  Kosher labeling in general cannot be used as a guide to determine whether a product does or does not contain milk. 2  ¹. 3  Kosher for Passover does not mean milk-free or safe for your child.
A number of our Quorn products do not contain added milk including meat free, soy free Mince and Pieces. If you have an allergy to milk proteins, then all Quorn products containing milk or milk derivatives should be avoided. Quorn products are the world’s favourite meat free, soy free food. Quorn products are currently available in the UK, USA, Ireland, Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Finland, Switzerland, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, South Africa, New Zealand and Australia.
1 Studies have indicated that a regular intake of soy foods may help to prevent hormone-related cancers such as breast cancer, prostate cancer, and colon cancer. 2  Soy works to lower LDL cholesterol (bad cholesterol) levels in the blood. 1 Soy may reduce triglyceride levels and increases HDL cholesterol levels (good cholesterol), which further reduces the risk of heart disease. 2  Soy isoflavones, which are a natural phytoestrogen source, may help reduce menopausal symptoms such as hot flashes or night sweats.