Dense connective tissue, or collagen, has a much more closely woven matrix than loose connective tissue. The two varieties of this type are called regular and irregular. Tendons and ligaments are considered regular types, with the collagen fibers running parallel to each other to form the structure. Irregular dense connective tissue can be found forming a cover for certain organs including the kidneys. Connective tissue is one of the four main types of tissue that make up the body. These fibrous groups of cells are found throughout the body and hold together the other types of tissues, including muscles, nerves, and epithelium.
The term muscle refers to multiple bundles of muscle fibers called fascicles. All muscles also contain connective tissue arranged in layers of fasciae. Each muscle is enclosed in a layer of fascia; each fascicle is enclosed by a layer of fascia and each individual muscle fiber is also enclosed in a layer of fascia. It is one of three major muscle types, the others being cardiac muscle and smooth muscle. Most skeletal muscles are attached to bones by bundles of collagen fibers known as tendons. Skeletal muscle is made up of individual muscle cells or myocytes, known as muscle fibers.
Fascia. The word fascia means bandage-a fitting analogy as the tissue called fascia takes the form of sheets or broad bands of fibrous connective tissue that cover muscles or organs, forming an outer-wrapping. There are two types of fascia: (1) Superficial Fascia, and (2) Deep Fascia. 
Skeletal muscle is a form of striated muscle tissue which is under the voluntary control of the somatic nervous system. It is one of three major muscle types, the others being cardiac muscle and smooth muscle. Most skeletal muscles are attached to bones by bundles of collagen fibers known as tendons. Skeletal muscle is made up of individual muscle cells or myocytes, known as muscle fibers. They are formed from the fusion of developmental myoblasts (a type of embryonic progenitor cell that gives rise to a muscle cell) in a process known as myogenesis. Muscle fibres are cylindrical, and multinucleated
, which also fills the spaces between the fascicles. Several layers of fibrous connective tissue called the epimysium, which surrounds the entire muscle, then cover the perimysium. Distinguish between deep fascia, subcutaneous fascia, and subserous fascia. Deep fascia. is the portion of the network of the fasciae that surrounds and penetrates the muscles. 
Connective tissue is present in all muscles as fascia. Enclosing each muscle is a layer of connective tissue known as the epimysium; enclosing each fascicle is a layer called the perimysium, and enclosing each muscle fiber is a layer of connective tissue called the endomysium. It is one of three major muscle types, the others being cardiac muscle and smooth muscle. Most skeletal muscles are attached to bones by bundles of collagen fibers known as tendons. Skeletal muscle is made up of individual muscle cells or myocytes, known as muscle fibers.
The connective tissue itself is called Fascia. It not only surrounds muscles and tendons but also organs, nerves and bones--it basically ties the human body together. There … are three types of fascia which surround muscles. They are named for how 'deep' they are and how much of a muscle they surround. 
Skeletal muscles are usually attached to bone by tendons composed of connective tissue. This connective tissue also ensheaths the entire muscle & is called epimysium. Skeletal muscles consist of numerous subunits or bundles called fasicles (or fascicles). 
Dense connective tissue. Often called fibrous connective tissue. 1  Tendons connect muscle to bone. [ 2  View ] The matrix is principally Type I collagen, and the fibers are all oriented parallel to each other. 3  Tendons are strong but not elastic. 4  Ligaments attach one bone to another. 5  They contain both collagen and also the protein elastin.
Each nerve is a cordlike structure that contains many axons. Within a nerve, each axon is surrounded by a layer of connective tissue called the endoneurium. The axons are bundled together into groups called fascicles, and each fascicle is wrapped in a layer of connective tissue called the perineurium