Damper is the great Australian bread! You don't need a camp oven to enjoy it, you can cook it right at home with these recipes. 
Step 2. Add water and milk and use a knife to slowly combine the mixture using a cutting motion, starting form the outside of the continuer and working the flour mixture into the centre. Keep working until dough forms. We had a brassiere so I placed the camp oven in the top. For an open fire, place on hot coals (you can even put coals on the top too. I cooked our loaf for about 40 minutes but cooking times really depend.
2 cups self-raising flour 1 tbsp butter 1/2 cup grated cheese 2 tbsp sugar 1 egg 1/2 cup milk Sift the flour and rub in the butter and cheese. Add the sugar. Beat the egg and milk together and add to the flour, mixing until you have a firm dough. Shape into a loaf and place into a hot camp oven. 
Method. 1  STEP 1 Mix flour, baking powder, salt and warm milk into a dough, adding more milk if needed. 2  STEP 2 Place the camp oven on the fire and make it hot before you put the bread mixture in. 3  STEP 3 Serve with butter and golden syrup. 1 STEP 1 Mix flour, baking powder, salt and warm milk into a dough, adding more milk if needed. 2  STEP 2 Place the camp oven on the fire and make it hot before you put the bread mixture in. 3  Put lid on camp oven and cover with hot coals.
Step 1. In the container you have the salt and flour in, add the butter and rubbed together with finger tips until combined. It will look like fine bread crumbs. Then, make a well in the centre of the mixture for the liquid. We had a brassiere so I placed the camp oven in the top. For an open fire, place on hot coals (you can even put coals on the top too. I cooked our loaf for about 40 minutes but cooking times really depend.
Turn the dough onto a lightly floured surface and knead gently for 1-2 minutes or until smooth. Shape into a disc and place on tray. Bake in a preheated oven for 30 minutes or until the damper is cooked through and sounds hollow when tapped on the base. Transfer to a wire rack for 5 minutes to cool slightly. Serve warm or at room temperature with your favourite spreads. Step 5. Bake in a preheated oven for 30 minutes or until the damper is cooked through and sounds hollow when tapped on the base. Transfer to a wire rack for 5 minutes to cool slightly.
5. Grease the camp oven (Dutch oven) and dust with flour. Add bread dough and cover. 6. Place in your campfire, cover with hot ashes and coals and bake for about 30 minutes. Note: to test if it's done, tap on the loaf and it should sound hollow. Cut into moderately thick slices and serve while still warm. 2. Rub the butter into the flour with your fingertips until it looks like fine breadcrumbs. 3. Add milk slowly and mix to form a soft dough. 4. Knead lightly on a floured board until smooth. Shape into a round loaf, brush with milk and cut a cross in the top surface of the dough. . . .
How to cook a Damper in a Camp Oven will you the simple steps to get a great result every time. Hope you enjoy this video and learn a few tips & tricks along the way. Please share it with your friend and subscribe to The Hook and The Cook You tube channel for the latest videos on Fishing & Cooking. 