Smaller cells have a large surface area compared to cell volume, while larger cells have a reduced ratio of surface area to volume. One reason why bacterial cells are so small is that they need a large surface area to cell volume to take in nutrients. Bacteria accumulate nutrients from the environment by diffusion. 
Heat and water loss. Heat/water loss is affected by surface area: volume. In large organisms heat/water loss is less than in small organisms. This is because the organism has longer pathways and longer distances, probably more insulation so it is harder for the heat to escape. (A large surface area: volume ratio is preferable for carrying out exchange of substances). Such large organisms need special respiratory organs such as lungs for taking in oxygen. Examples. 1  Alveoli in the lungs have a large surface area: volume ratio meaning gas exchange in humans occurs at a fast rate.
Leaves are adapted for photosynthesis by having a large surface area, and contain openings, called stomata to allow carbon dioxide into the leaf. Although these design features are good for photosynthesis, they can result in the leaf losing a lot of water. The cells inside the leaf have water on their surface. Plants absorb water from the soil by osmosis. Root hair cells are adapted for this by having a large surface area to speed up osmosis. The absorbed water is transported through the roots to the rest of the plant where it is used for different purposes: 1  It is a reactant used in photosynthesis.
Leaves enable photosynthesis to happen. Photosynthesis is the process by which leaves absorb light and carbon dioxide to produce carbohydrate (food) for plants to grow. Leaves are adapted to perform their function eg they have a large surface area to absorb sunlight.
Leaves are broad, thin and flat to provide a large surface area, to absorb sunlight for photosynthesis. To improve on the previous answer, the larger the surface area compared to the volume (or size) of the cell, the faster the rate of diffusion through the cell membrane. So with a larger surface area, more particles can diffuse in and out of the cell and at a faster rate for the same volume of cell.
Detailed answers please! 1) How does the surface area to volume ratio affect plants and plant processes? 2) How do plants compensate for their water loss? 3) How would the environment affect water loss in a plant? What types of environments... Best Answer: Plant must balance their need for more surface area to collect sunlight with the fragile nature of the leaves and the rate of water loss. More surface = more sunlight collection but it also means a potentially greater water loss
Answers. Best Answer: Plant must balance their need for more surface area to collect sunlight with the fragile nature of the leaves and the rate of water loss. More surface = more sunlight collection but it also means a potentially greater water los
Therefore, a large surface area means that there is a lot of area for the gas exchange to take place. Therefo … re it is to improve efficiency of gas exchange in the lungs (exchanging carbon dioxide for oxygen). The large surface area is due to the shape of the alveoli-the have many small pockets. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Plants get their chemical energy from a process know as photosynthesis. In order for this to work, plants need sunlight (ie they die if left in darkness). To maximize the amount of light they can absorb in their leaves, they must have a big surface area. Notice the sterm is often cylindric in shape, minimalizing the surface area in order to avoid vaporizing of precious water and to avoid falling over in storm