Function The Golgi complex takes proteins made by the endoplasmic reticulum and exports them out of the cell as needed. It is able to keep dangerous proteins from damaging the cell which made them. It is like a packaging department ready to deliver the protein products made in the cell. Cell Organelle Information-You will need to know both the structure and function of the organelles in a cell. Make sure you know the difference in organelles found in plant and animal cells. Nucleus Back to the Top Function The nucleus is the control center of a cell as such it is the most important part of the cell.
The organelle that produces secretory proteins is the rough  endoplasmic reticulum. The endoplasmic reticulum is also important  in the synthesis and packaging of proteins. Rough endoplasmic reticulum exports protein to the Golgi body in vesicles, the Golgi body then modifies these proteins and then transports them, again in vesicles.
Function Ribosomes are responsible for protein synthesis Structure Cells normally have millions of ribosomes, each ribosome has two parts which come together during protein synthesis. A ribosome is made of numerous proteins and RNA. Cell Organelle Information-You will need to know both the structure and function of the organelles in a cell. Make sure you know the difference in organelles found in plant and animal cells. Nucleus Back to the Top Function The nucleus is the control center of a cell as such it is the most important part of the cell.
All eukaryotic cells have within them a variety of different structures called organelles. Organelles are small and function much like organs function in a large organism. Some organelles are responsible for gathering cell energy, others for controlling cell activities. Nucleus. The nucleus is one of the most important organelles in a cell. It is often the largest organelle in animal cells, but this is not always the case. Nuclei contain the genetic material called DNA that is responsible for controlling and directing all
In cells, structures called Golgi Bodies (also known as Golgi apparatus or Golgi complex) are stacks of membrane-covered sacs that package and move proteins to the outside of the cell. Golgi bodies are the packaging and secreting organelles of the cell. 
There are two types of endoplasmic reticulum; both types are found in plants and animal cells. The ER is a membrane system found throughout the cell. Smooth Endoplasmic Reticulum: The Smooth ER creates the lipid parts of the cell membrane and has enzymes that are used for the detoxification of drugs. Rough Endoplasmic Reticulum: The RER is called rough because of the ribosomes attached to it. The Rough ER is necessary to create and transport proteins throughout the cell. When the ribosomes attached to the Rough ER create proteins, the proteins are sent to the Rough ER to be chemically modified for specific uses.
Ribosomes (usually on the rough endoplasmic reticulum) are  responsible for making the proteins, and the Golgi apparatus is  responsible for packaging the proteins. Confidence votes 332. Ribosomes are the cell organelles that make proteins. They are located throughout the cytoplasm, as well as on the rough endoplasmic reticulum.
Ribosomes. Ribosomes are found in both plant and animal cells and are made in the nucleolus and transported out of the nucleus through endoplasmic reticulum. Ribosomes are important for the process of synthesis, specifically of proteins. Rough Endoplasmic Reticulum: The RER is called rough because of the ribosomes attached to it. The Rough ER is necessary to create and transport proteins throughout the cell. When the ribosomes attached to the Rough ER create proteins, the proteins are sent to the Rough ER to be chemically modified for specific uses.
In cell biology, an organelle /ɔrɡəˈnɛl/ is a specialized subunit within a cell that has a specific function. Individual organelles are usually separately enclosed within their own lipid bilayers. The name organelle comes from the idea that these structures are to cells what an organ is to the body (hence the name organelle, the suffix-elle being a diminutive). Organelles are identified by microscopy, and can also be purified by cell fractionation. There are many types of organelles, particularly in eukaryotic cells. While prokaryotes do not possess organelles per se, some do contain protein-based microcompartments, which are thought to act as primitive organelles.