Best Answer: If you mean, table sugar, it's a compound -- sucrose. One molecule of it consists of 12 C's, 11 O's and 22 H's. If you mean, generic sugar, that can be any single one of many different sugars (making it also a compound), or a mixture of two or more of them. Besides sucrose, other common sugars include glucose (aka dextrose), lactose, fructose, galactose, maltose, mannose, etc. 
A compound is a substance composed of two or more different types of atom held together of chemical bonds. In the case of sucrose, it is made of the elements carbon, oxygen and hydrogen and the atoms are held together by covalent bonds. All sugars are compounds. Presumably you are talking about common table sugar. It is called sucrose and it is a disaccharide. It is formed from 1 unit of fructose and 1 glucose, it contain hydrogen, carbon and oxygen (hence its a compound) and its formula is C12H22O11.
Yes it is. A compound is a substance composed of two or more different types of atom held together of chemical bonds. In the case of sucrose, it is made of the elements carbon, oxygen and hydrogen and the atoms are held together by covalent bonds. RATTY · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. 0. Thumbs down. 1. Comment. All sugars are compounds. Presumably you are talking about common table sugar. It is called sucrose and it is a disaccharide. It is formed from 1 unit of fructose and 1 glucose, it contain hydrogen, carbon and oxygen (hence its a compound) and its formula is C12H22O11.
Table sugar (sucrose-C12H22O11) is a compound.    Sugar is considered a compound. The elements carbon, hydrogen, and  oxygen are bonded chemically together to form tab … le sugar, or  sucrose. 1  The Periodic Table of Elements Life is sustained by a number of chemical elements.
It is amixture of compouds IE sugar (a compound) and water(a compound) are put together to form a mixture that can be separated from without any chemical changes taking … place in either. 6 people found this useful. Jake Weatherby. 117,323 Contributions. The elements carbon, hydrogen, and  oxygen are bonded chemically together to form tab … le sugar, or  sucrose. 1  The Periodic Table of Elements Life is sustained by a number of chemical elements.
Glucose. Glucose is a carbohydrate, and is the most important simple sugar in human metabolism. Glucose is called a simple sugar or a monosaccharide because it is one of the smallest units which has the characteristics of this class of carbohydrates. Glucose is also sometimes called dextrose. Corn syrup is primarily glucose. Glucose is one of the primary molecules which serve as energy sources for plants and animals. It is found in the sap of plants, and is found in the human bloodstream where it is referred to as blood sugar.
The white stuff we know as sugar is sucrose, a molecule composed of 12 atoms of carbon, 22 atoms of hydrogen, and 11 atoms of oxygen (C12H22O11). Like all compounds made from these three elements, sugar is a carbohydrate. Its found naturally in most plants, but especially in sugarcane and sugar beetshence their names. Sucrose is actually two simpler sugars stuck together: fructose and glucose.
Sugar is made of more than one element, so it is a compound. Table sugar, sucrose, contains C, H, O and has the molecular formula C12H22O11. The elements carbon, hydrogen, and  oxygen are bonded chemically together to form tab … le sugar, or  sucrose. 1  The Periodic Table of Elements Life is sustained by a number of chemical elements.
Yes, there are many sugars and they are all compounds. The basic essence of sugar is that it is a hydrocarbon, for example Glucose (the simplest sugar) has a formula of C6H12O6. And all sugars contain Carbon, Hydrogen and Oxygen. All sugars are compounds. Presumably you are talking about common table sugar. It is called sucrose and it is a disaccharide. It is formed from 1 unit of fructose and 1 glucose, it contain hydrogen, carbon and oxygen (hence its a compound) and its formula is C12H22O11.