1 Must be 21 to 68 years of age when renewing your Driver's License (you may not renew your driver license online if you are 69 years of age or older on the expiration date of the driver's license being renewed however, you may renew your ID card). 2  Must be 21 years of age when renewing an ID card. 1 Must be 21 years of age when renewing an ID card. 2  If your current license is the vertical “Under 21” license, you must pass the Alcohol Awareness Test before you can renew your license. ( 3 2 AAC 90.425). * 4 If you are 20 or 21 and attending college outside of Alaska, click here for information.
1 While practicing with your learner's permit, the adult with you must have been licensed for 1 year and must be 21 years of age or older. 2  Your parent, legal guardian or employer must provide proof that you have had at least forty (40) hours of driving experience. You must apply for your provisional license in person at your local DMV office. You must also pass a road test in order to get your provisional license. Please note: The DMV has developed additional services to assist Alaska's rural residents with licensing issues unique to remote communities.
To apply for an M2 permit, you must be at least 14 years old and have your parent's consent. Here's what you must do in order to obtain your M2 permit: 1  Pass a written knowledge test, if you do not hold an Alaska passenger vehicle learner's permit. 2  Pass the written motorcycle knowledge test. 3  Pass a vision test. If you're younger than 18 years old, you are also required to have your parent's consent in order to obtain a motorcycle license. In Alaska, it is the law that a minor must wear a helmet while driving a motorcycle or riding on one as a passenger.
In Alaska, you must be at least 14 years old to apply for a motorcycle instruction permit and if you are younger than 18, will be required to have your parent's consent to obtain a learner's permit. If you're younger than 18 years old, you are also required to have your parent's consent in order to obtain a motorcycle license. In Alaska, it is the law that a minor must wear a helmet while driving a motorcycle or riding on one as a passenger.
To get your learner's permit, you'll need to visit your local Alaska DMV office and: 1  Be at least 14 years old. 2  Have your parent/legal guardian complete a Parent/Guardian Consent for a Minor (Form 433). 3  Complete an Application for Alaska Driver License, Permit or Identification Card (Form 478). Unrestricted Alaska Driver's License. You are eligible for an unrestricted driver's license after you hold your provisional license for at least 6 months OR until you are 18 years old. If you decide to upgrade your driver's license before you turn 18 years old, you'll need to:
1 You must have held a learner's permit for a minimum of six (6) months. 2  While practicing with your learner's permit, the adult with you must have been licensed for 1 year and must be 21 years of age or older. You must apply for your provisional license in person at your local DMV office. You must also pass a road test in order to get your provisional license. Please note: The DMV has developed additional services to assist Alaska's rural residents with licensing issues unique to remote communities.
Learner's Permit must be held for 180 days and learner must be 16 and 180 days before getting a restricted license. If the learner is younger than 18 years of age on receiving the driver's license, it is considered probationary. Pennsylvania's 1909 licensing laws were the first to give an age restriction (18 years of age) and the first state to allow 16-year-olds to drive (accompanied by a licensed driver) was Connecticut in 1921.
Requirements to receive a provisional driver license: 1  You must be at least 16 years old or older. 2  You must have held a learner's permit for a minimum of six (6) months. 3  While practicing with your learner's permit, the adult with you must have been licensed for 1 year and must be 21 years of age or older. You must apply for your provisional license in person at your local DMV office. You must also pass a road test in order to get your provisional license. Please note: The DMV has developed additional services to assist Alaska's rural residents with licensing issues unique to remote communities.
In order to apply for your motorcycle license Class M1, you must be at least 16 years old and if you are younger than 18 years old, you must have had your learner's permit for at least 6 months. If you're younger than 18 years old, you are also required to have your parent's consent in order to obtain a motorcycle license. In Alaska, it is the law that a minor must wear a helmet while driving a motorcycle or riding on one as a passenger.