The field covering the anterior surface of the cornea which consists of lacrimal fluid and of the secretion of the meibomian and conjunctival glands. It is composed of three layers: (1) The deepest and densest is the mucin layer (or mucous layer) which derives from the conjunctival goblet cells, as well as some secretion from the lacrimal gland. (2) The watery lacrimal fluid is the middle layer, called the lacrimal (or aqueous layer).
watery secretion of the lacrimal gland, which is located at the outer corner of the eye socket immediately above the eyeball. Tearing, or lacrimation, is a continuous and largely involuntary process stimulated by the autonomic nervous system. Fluid is secreted into the lacrimal lake, the area between the eyeball and the upper eyelid, and spread across the surface of the eye by blinking. Tears serve to bathe and lubricate the cornea, the sensitive outer covering of
http://www.medicalook.com. SEARCH. The lacrimal apparatus is the collective design of the lacrimal ducts which secrete tears (the lacrimal fluid,) and a few extra ducts that allow extra lacrimal fluid to drain into the nasal cavity. The almond-like lacrimal gland can be found along the superolateral segment of the orbit. Each lacrimal gland of each individual eye is known to produce about 1 milliliter of lacrimal fluid in a 24 hour period. Aggrevating substances cause greater amounts of fluids, such sand, dust, pollen, or onion, as the conjunctiva requires greater amounts to remain moist.
Lacrimal fluid is part of the process of cleansing and wetting the eye, as the blinking of the eye washes the eyeball in the necessary tears. The lacrimal puncta is found on either side of the lacrimal caruncle, and represents the two small drainage vessels required. Each lacrimal gland of each individual eye is known to produce about 1 milliliter of lacrimal fluid in a 24 hour period. Aggrevating substances cause greater amounts of fluids, such sand, dust, pollen, or onion, as the conjunctiva requires greater amounts to remain moist.
having the same tonicity or osmotic pressure as blood. lacrimal fluid. aqueous fluid secreted by the lacrimal glands; called also tears. fluid line. in radiographs, the interface between fluid and gas, as in the gastrointestinal tract, will show as a straight line. fluid loss. by vomiting, diarrhea, polyuria, water deprivation. It is composed of three layers: (1) The deepest and densest is the mucin layer (or mucous layer) which derives from the conjunctival goblet cells, as well as some secretion from the lacrimal gland. (2) The watery lacrimal fluid is the middle layer, called the lacrimal (or aqueous layer).
The lacrimal glands are paired almond-shaped glands, one for each eye, that secrete the aqueous layer of the tear film. They are situated in the upper, outer portion of each orbit, in the lacrimal fossa of the orbit formed by the frontal bone. Inflammation of the lacrimal glands is called dacryoadenitis. The lacrimal gland produces tears which then flow into canals that lead to the lacrimal sac. From this sac, the tears drain through the lacrimal duct into the nose. Anatomists divide the gland into two sections. The smaller palpebral portion lies close to the eye, along the inner surface of the eyelid; if the upper eyelid is everted, the palpebral portion can be seen.
lacrimal fluid. Definitions: 1. a watery physiologic saline, with a plasmalike consistency, but also contains the bacteriocidal enzyme lysozyme; it moistens the conjunctiva and cornea, providing nutrients and dissolved O. Synonyms: tears. The definition information for lacrimal fluid is provided by Stedman's
The clear watery fluid secreted by the lacrimal gland which, together with the secretions from the meibomian glands, the goblet cells, the gland of Zeis, as well as the accessory lacrimal glands of Krause and Wolfring, helps to maintain the conjunctiva and cornea moist and healthy. It is composed of three layers: (1) The deepest and densest is the mucin layer (or mucous layer) which derives from the conjunctival goblet cells, as well as some secretion from the lacrimal gland. (2) The watery lacrimal fluid is the middle layer, called the lacrimal (or aqueous layer).
lacrimal. pertaining to tears. lacrimal apparatus a group of organs concerned with the production and drainage of tears; it is a protective device that helps keep the eye moist and free of dust and other irritating particles. a group of organs concerned with the production and drainage of tears; it is a nutritive and protective device that helps keep the eye moist and free of dust and other irritating particles. Includes lacrimal gland, accessory lacrimal glands, third eyelid glands and the nasolacrimal duct.