Chloroplast are organelles found in plant cells and other photosynthetic eukaryote organisms. Chloroplasts get energy from the sun and use it to make food and to produce … ATP to use by animals and other consumers. Chloroplast have chlorophyll which gives plants their green color. 
1 Chlorophyll: the pigment that gives plants their green color and allows them to absorb sunlight... 2  more. 3  Chloroplast: a part of a cell found in plants that converts light energy into energy plants can use (sugar). 4  Other living organisms such as algae also have cells that contain chloroplasts. Chloroplasts are tiny factories inside the cells of plants. They are also found in the cells of other organisms that use photosynthesis. Chloroplasts take the energy from the sunlight and use it to make plant food.
show/hide words to know. 1  Chlorophyll: the pigment that gives plants their green color and allows them to absorb sunlight... 2  more. 3  Chloroplast: a part of a cell found in plants that converts light energy into energy plants can use (sugar). 4  Other living organisms such as algae also have cells that contain chloroplasts. Chloroplasts are tiny factories inside the cells of plants. They are also found in the cells of other organisms that use photosynthesis. Chloroplasts take the energy from the sunlight and use it to make plant food.
Chloroplasts are organelles present in plant cells and some eukaryotic organisms. Chloroplasts are the most important plastids found in plant cells. It is the structure in a green plant cell in which photosynthesis occurs. Chloroplast is one of the three types of plastids. 
1 Chloroplast: a part of a cell found in plants that converts light energy into energy plants can use (sugar). 2  Other living organisms such as algae also have cells that contain chloroplasts. 3  Thylakoid: the disk-shaped parts of a plant cell where light-dependent reactions occur... 4  more. Chloroplasts are tiny factories inside the cells of plants. They are also found in the cells of other organisms that use photosynthesis. Chloroplasts take the energy from the sunlight and use it to make plant food.
Plant cells have certain distinguishing features, including chloroplasts, cell walls, and intracellular vacuoles. Photosynthesis takes place in chloroplasts; cell walls allow plants to have strong, upright structures; and vacuoles help regulate how cells handle water and storage of other molecules. eBooks. 
Hence, the name chloroplast indicates that these structures are chlorophyll containing plastids. Like mitochondria, chloroplasts have their own DNA, are responsible for energy production, and reproduce independently from the rest of the cell through a division process similar to bacterial binary fission. A chloroplast is a type of plant cell organelle known as a plastid. Plastids assist in storing and harvesting needed substances for energy production. A chloroplast contains a green pigment called chlorophyll, which absorbs light energy for photosynthesis.
All of the green structures in plants, including stems and unripened fruit, contain chloroplasts, but the majority of photosynthesis activity in most plants occurs in the leaves. On the average, the chloroplast density on the surface of a leaf is about one-half million per square millimeter. 
Functions of the leaf. Chloroplasts chloroplast: Microscopic structure containing chlorophyl found in green plant cells where photosynthesis takes place. are the tiny structures in plant cells where photosynthesis happens. Chloroplasts contain chlorophyll chlorophyll: The green chemical inside the chloroplasts of plant cells. It enables photosynthesis to take place. , a green pigment that absorbs light energy for photosynthesis. However, chloroplasts are not found in all plant cells