Not inherently. Having 2 computers on the same connection reduces the bandwidth available to each one by the amount that the other one is using. Besides, most installations have internet speeds that are nowhere near Ethernet speeds, so you get the full internet bandwidth.
Do Ethernet couplers or splitters (between Ethernet cables) reduce Internet speed or performance in any way, in otherwise direct connections from modem to computer/laptop? Having 2 computers on the same connection reduces the bandwidth available to each one by the amount that the other one is using. Besides, most installations have internet speeds that are nowhere near Ethernet speeds, so you get the full internet bandwidth.
The speed depends on the signal/noise ratio. Any splitter used will lower down the signal noise ratio and consequently lower down your. speed. However, if the internet is very slow, the problem may be interferrence caused by reflection. Does the three way splitter cable reduces internet or download speed? My friend uses three way splitter to add one cable to T.V. in the bedroom. I told him that I supsect the internet is so slow due to three way splitter.
I have one ethernet outlet that is hardwired to the modem, and was wondering if hooking up a 2nd computer to that outlet using a splitter or router would slow down the internet speed? My ISP is Bell Fibe. 1 SolvedMy Internet Cable is dsl but my router's input port is ethernet. 2  SolvedSlow Internet speed on my laptop but on other devices perfect speed and they are connected to the same router. 3  Unable to configure my DVR to access internet via my Wifi router using Ethernet cable.
Currently, I have an ethernet cable running through from my router outside in a detached office through to the inside of my house and into my room on the second floor. With this, I plug the other end into my PS3, where I get 100% signal strength and the speed and quality is very good. Now here's the complicated... 
a few situations I have one ethernet port on my pc. will addins a slitter, giving me two ethernet ports from the one reduce the speeds on each of my ports or will i be able to get the equivalent of 1 port full performance If i put two cables from by router into a splitter and put it down a cat6 cable and then... Report Abuse. Yes, a splitter will reduce the throughput performance of the port to half. A single RJ45 port would theoretically be capable of outputting up to 100Mbps, but Gigabit RJ45 ports are capable of 1000Mbps. The splitter would split the speeds to 50Mbps
If i put two cables from by router into a splitter and put it down a cat6 cable and then put it into a pc will the speeds be faster. or. if i put it into a splitter and then put it into two rj45 port on one computer will it increase internet speeds. or. if i put it into a splitter and then put it into two different computers, will both pcs get full internet speed. Report Abuse. Yes, a splitter will reduce the throughput performance of the port to half. A single RJ45 port would theoretically be capable of outputting up to 100Mbps, but Gigabit RJ45 ports are capable of 1000Mbps. The splitter would split the speeds to 50Mbps
All splitters reduce the signal strength approx 3.5 db for each time a split occurs. BUT, if you have a good Signal to Noise Ratio(SNR) and the signal strength stays above a minimal number, internet speed and thruput won't suffer any degradation. Not only do you need to check the high end of the splitter (1ghz) but you need to make sure that it doesn't start the low end above 5mhz. As a general rule, stay away from radio shack and any gold splitters.