Diabetes is a condition where your body can’t properly control the amount of glucose in your blood. A hormone called insulin is needed for transferring glucose from the bloodstream to enter the body cells and be converted to energy. Type 2 diabetes is the most common form of diabetes, affecting 7.1 % of all Australians over the age of 25 years. This type of diabetes most often occurs in people over 40 years of age who are overweight and/or have a family history of type 2 diabetes.
In people with diabetes, blood glucose levels are often higher than normal because either the body does not produce insulin (type 1 diabetes) or cannot use insulin properly (type 2 diabetes). High levels of glucose in the bloodstream can lead to short term complications such as: 1  passing large amounts of urine. Type 2 diabetes is the most common form of diabetes, affecting 7.1 % of all Australians over the age of 25 years. This type of diabetes most often occurs in people over 40 years of age who are overweight and/or have a family history of type 2 diabetes.
Types of diabetes. There are two main types of diabetes. In Type 1 diabetes the cells of the pancreas stop making insulin. In Type 2 diabetes, either the pancreas cells do not make enough insulin, or the body's cells do not react properly to it. This is known as insulin resistance. Type 1 diabetes is an autoimmune condition, and the immune system attacks the cells of the pancreas. Diabetes is an incurable condition in which the body cannot control blood sugar levels, because of problems with the hormone insulin. There are two main variations of the illness, Type I and Type II.
Proper nutrition helps in managing your metabolism. By Diabetic Connect StaffA 9 Comments. Diabetes interferes with how your body processes sugar and actually changes how it absorbs or metabolizes certain vitamins. As a result, not getting proper nutrition or suffering a vitamin deficiency can worsen your condition. • B Vitamins: Thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, folic acid, cyanocobalamin, pantothenic acid and biotin, all B-complex vitamins, can help decrease nerve damage (neuropathy) in diabetics. And they decrease blood sugar levels.
A multivitamin can help you get nutrients that you may not get enough of in your diet. People with diabetes often have lower levels of vitamin C in their bodies than people without diabetes. Folic acid, vitamin D and vitamin E may also help people with diabetes. A good rule of thumb is to take a multivitamin that contains no more than 100% or 150% of the daily value for each nutrient. Taking megadoses may not be beneficial and could cause harm. 
Natural Supplements for People with Diabetes. Sources: 1  Antioxidant vitamins and their influence in diabetes. 2  Role of vitamins and minerals in prevention and management of type 2 diabetes mellitus. • B Vitamins: Thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, folic acid, cyanocobalamin, pantothenic acid and biotin, all B-complex vitamins, can help decrease nerve damage (neuropathy) in diabetics. And they decrease blood sugar levels.
People with diabetes may additionally want to look for a supplement that contains 100% DV for chromium and at least 25% DV for magnesium. (Multivitamins never contain 100% DV for magnesium because it won’t fit into a single pill.). A good diet can supply most if not all of the vitamins and minerals you need. But maintaining such a diet day in and day out can be a challenge, which is why many people take a daily multivitamin–multimineral supplement as a form of insurance.
Carbohydrates. Carbohydrates are found in fruits, vegetables, beans, dairy foods and starchy foods such as breads. Try to have fresh fruits rather than canned fruits, fruit juices or dried fruit. You may eat fresh vegetables and frozen or canned vegetables. For most people who have diabetes (and those without, too), a healthy diet consists of 40% to 60% of calories from carbohydrates, 20% from protein and 30% or less from fat. It should be low in cholesterol, low in salt and low in added sugar.
Diabetes Nutrition. Nutrition is crucial in managing blood sugar levels. Nutrition is a critical part of diabetes care. Balancing the right amount of carbohydrates, fat, protein along with fibre, vitamins and minerals helps us to maintain a healthy diet and a healthy lifestyle.