Origin and meaning [edit]. Marilyn is a blend of the English given names Mary and Lynn. It began to be used in the 1920s, and it reached its peak of popularity in the 1930s, 1940s and 1950s. Variants of the name includes: Maralyn, Marilynn, Marlyn, Marylyn, Merrilyn, Marrilyn, Merilyn and Merrilyn
The name Marilyn is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Marilyn is: Blend of Marie or Mary and Lyn. American Meaning: The name Marilyn is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Marilyn is: Blend of Marie or Mary and Lyn. Hebrew Meaning: The name Marilyn is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Marilyn is: Wished-for child; rebellion; bitter
Meaning of Marilyn. Hebrew name. In Hebrew, the name Marilyn means-Variant of Mary: Wished-for child; rebellion; bitter.. Other origins for the name Marilyn include-Hebrew, Israeli, English.The name Marilyn is most often used as a girl name or female name. Hebrew Name Meaning-Variant of Mary: Wished-for child; rebellion; bitter. Origin-Hebrew.
Marilyn is a very popular first name for females (#80 out of 4276, Top 2%) but a rare surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Marilyn for girls. Marilyn ▲ is pronounced similarly to Marilene. Other recommended similar baby names are Carilyn, Karilyn, Madilyn ▲ , Marcilyn, Marilena, Marlen, Marlin, Marlon, Marlyne, Marlynn, Marrlen, Marrlin and Merlyn. These names tend to be less frequently used than Marilyn.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Marilyn and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Marilyn and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The meaning of Marilyn has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Marilyn are: 1  Hebrew meaning: Uncertain, maybe bitter.
English name. In English, the name Marilyn means-Blend of Marie or Mary and Lyn.. Other origins for the name Marilyn include-English, Israeli, Hebrew.The name Marilyn is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-Blend of Marie or Mary and Lyn. Origin-English.
The name Marilyn is of American origin, and it means Combination of Mary and Lynn . It's a name commonly given to girls. Marilyn Monroe is an actress, model, singer, and film producer with the most prominent portion of her career being from 1945 to 1962. 
[ 4 syll. ma-ri-lyn, mar-il-yn ] The baby girl name Marilyn is pronounced as M EH R-iy-LiyiyN †. Marilyn is largely used in the English language and it is derived from Hebrew origins. The name is a 20th-century elaboration of Mary by combining it with the suffix '- lyn ' or the name Lynn.
It is of English and Latin origin, and the meaning of Marilyn is  star of the sea . Modern blend of Mary and the-lyn ending (see Lynn). Actresses Marilyn Miller, Marilyn Monroe; author Marilyn French; opera celebrity Marilyn Horne. Kreatif forms: Malrilyn, Marilynia, Myrilyn. Marilyn ▲ is pronounced similarly to Marilene. Other recommended similar baby names are Carilyn, Karilyn, Madilyn ▲ , Marcilyn, Marilena, Marlen, Marlin, Marlon, Marlyne, Marlynn, Marrlen, Marrlin and Merlyn. These names tend to be less frequently used than Marilyn.