a shallow depression, or furrow on the surface of an organ, such as cerebral sulcus that separates the convolutions of the cerebral hemisphere. A sulcus is usually not as deep as a fissure, but, in the terminology of anatomy, the words sulcus and fissure are often used interchangeably. sulcate, adj. sulcus (sulˑ·k s) , n any of the narrow grooves in an organ or tissue, such as those that separate the convolutions of the cerebral hemisphere; used interchangeably with. fissure, although a sulcus is not as deep as a fissure.
sulcus (sulˑ·k s) , n any of the narrow grooves in an organ or tissue, such as those that separate the convolutions of the cerebral hemisphere; used interchangeably with. fissure, although a sulcus is not as deep as a fissure. sulcus (sul´kəs) , n 1. a furrow, trench, or groove, as on the surface of the brain or in the folds of mucous membranes. 2. a groove or depression on the surface of a tooth. 3. a groove in a portion of the oral cavity.
sulcus. A depression or a groove found on the surface of an organ or tissue, as on the surface of the brain separating adjacent convolutions. Large sulci that divide the brain into lobes as well as the two hemispheres are more often called fissures. Plural: sulci. sulcus (sul´kəs) , n 1. a furrow, trench, or groove, as on the surface of the brain or in the folds of mucous membranes. 2. a groove or depression on the surface of a tooth. 3. a groove in a portion of the oral cavity.
Central sulcus Definition. It is a furrow or deep groove in the brain. It is said to have a ‘map’ of the body on each side that matches the other side. It is also known as “Fissure of Rolando” or “Rolandic Fissure,” after the noted Italian anatomist Luigi Rolando. 
sulcus. A depression or a groove found on the surface of an organ or tissue, as on the surface of the brain separating adjacent convolutions. Large sulci that divide the brain into lobes as well as the two hemispheres are more often called fissures. Plural: sulci. See fissure. sulcus (sulˑ·k s) , n any of the narrow grooves in an organ or tissue, such as those that separate the convolutions of the cerebral hemisphere; used interchangeably with. fissure, although a sulcus is not as deep as a fissure.
*Gyrus (gyri)-is a ridge on the cerebral cortex. Folds on the brain material. Many ridges called convolutions, or gyri, or gyrus, separated by grooves, mark the cerebrum 's surface. *Sulcus (sulci)- shallow grooves on the brain. Generally, a shallow to somewhat deep groove is called a sulcus, or sulci, and a very deep groove is called a fissure. Posted by Saketh Raghavan (student) on 15/3/13. 
a shallow depression, or furrow on the surface of an organ, such as cerebral sulcus that separates the convolutions of the cerebral hemisphere. A sulcus is usually not as deep as a fissure, but, in the terminology of anatomy, the words sulcus and fissure are often used interchangeably. sulcus (sul´kəs) , n 1. a furrow, trench, or groove, as on the surface of the brain or in the folds of mucous membranes. 2. a groove or depression on the surface of a tooth. 3. a groove in a portion of the oral cavity.
Illustration depicting general brain structures including sulci. In neuroanatomy, a sulcus (Latin : furrow, pl. sulci) is a depression or groove in the cerebral cortex. It surrounds a gyrus (pl. gyri), creating the characteristic folded appearance of the brain in humans and other mammals. Structure [edit]. Sulci are one of three parts of the cerebral cortex, the others being the gyri and the fissures. The three different parts create a larger surface area for the human brain and other mammalian brains. When looking at the human brain, two-thirds of the surface is hidden in the grooves.