Abiogenesis is the natural process of life arising from non-living matter, such as simple organic compounds. The age of the Earth is about 4.54 billion years. The earliest life on Earth arose at least 3.5 billion years ago, during the Eoarchean Era when sufficient crust had solidified following the molten Hadean Eon. The chemistry leading to life may have begun shortly after the Big Bang, 13.8 billion years ago, during a habitable epoch when the Universe was only 10–17 million years old. Though life is confirmed only on the Earth, many think that extraterrestrial life is not only plausible, but probable or inevitable.
Other forms of life support are ventilators and C-pap which breathe FOR a person. Some people are put on ventilators for various reasons and they are NOT considered life support. If a person is put on a ventilator to offer them a chance to get over a nasty pneumonia, this is not considered life support. It becomes life support when they cannot wean a person off a ventilator so they can breathe on their own.
Answer 3: Viruses are not considered alive because they lack many of the properties that scientists associate with living organisms. Primarily, they lack the ability to reproduce without the aid of a host cell, and don't use the typical cell-division approach to replication. Yes, viruses are interesting. Viruses don't fit the definition of life, but they're certainly not dead either! They're an interesting example of how we can't really separate stuff into 2 simple categories-Living and Non-living. Viruses seem to be in between those 2 categories
Best Answer: There are many views to this question. From a biological standpoint, life begins at conception. According to biology, a living being grows, takes in nutrients, and expells metabolic waste. The ova does that immediately after conception, so it can be considered a living organism. From a medical standpoint, life begins either 5 weeks post-conception or 10 weeks post conception, depending on who you're talking to.
Life is a characteristic distinguishing physical entities having biological processes (such as signaling and self-sustaining processes) from those that do not, either because such functions have ceased (death), or because they lack such functions and are classified as inanimate. The chemistry leading to life may have begun shortly after the Big Bang, 13.8 billion years ago, during a habitable epoch when the Universe was only 10–17 million years old. Though life is confirmed only on the Earth, many think that extraterrestrial life is not only plausible, but probable or inevitable.
It is any thing that a person needs to keep them living if they are unable to eat or breathe on their own. If removing the feeding tube or taking a person off a ventilator or c-pap would directly cause them to die, then it is life support. Some people can have a feeding tube for supplemental feeding because for whatever reason, they are not able to eat enough through their mouth. In such a case, this is NOT life support. If a person is put on a ventilator to offer them a chance to get over a nasty pneumonia, this is not considered life support. It becomes life support when they cannot wean a person off a ventilator so they can
Since emerging, life has evolved into a variety of forms, which have been classified into a hierarchy of taxa. Life can survive and thrive in a wide range of conditions. Nonetheless, more than 99 percent of all species, amounting to over five billion species, that ever lived on Earth are estimated to be extinct. The chemistry leading to life may have begun shortly after the Big Bang, 13.8 billion years ago, during a habitable epoch when the Universe was only 10–17 million years old. Though life is confirmed only on the Earth, many think that extraterrestrial life is not only plausible, but probable or inevitable.
The smallest contiguous unit of life is called an organism. Organisms are composed of one or more cells, undergo metabolism, maintain homeostasis, can grow, respond to stimuli, reproduce (either sexually or asexually) and, through evolution, adapt to their environment in successive generations. The chemistry leading to life may have begun shortly after the Big Bang, 13.8 billion years ago, during a habitable epoch when the Universe was only 10–17 million years old. Though life is confirmed only on the Earth, many think that extraterrestrial life is not only plausible, but probable or inevitable.