Construct a bin for your compost. While you still can compost successfully in a pile on the ground, a bin will keep the process neater and will help to discourage animals if you are composting food scraps. Depending on the construction of the bin, it can also help to regulate moisture and temperature. 1 If you believe your compost pile needs more air, turn it, and try adding more dry or brown stuff to open up the structure. 2  Turning a compost pile can be labor intensive and hard on the back. 3  Some people use a shovel or pitchfork.
1 If you use a compost bin with an open bottom, the worms will probably come into your compost pile on their own. 2  Layering is very effective if possible-one layer brown stuff, one layer green stuff, one layer composting worms (as long as the temperature of your compost does not exceed 25ºC). 1 If you believe your compost pile needs more air, turn it, and try adding more dry or brown stuff to open up the structure. 2  Turning a compost pile can be labor intensive and hard on the back. 3  Some people use a shovel or pitchfork.
Yard trimmings can be composted without a bin if you do not mind the appearance of an uncontained compost mound in your yard. What To Do-Find a good location and loosen the soil where your pile will be. Pile your yard trimmings in a mound about 3 feet high and at least 3 feet by 3 feet in area. Alternate wet (green) and dry (brown) materials and add materials as they become available. If you mix your compost pile with a pitchfork or other tool, it speeds up the process
What to put in a compost pile. When adding raw materials to a pile, it's important to balance nitrogen-rich plant scraps (called greens) and carbon-rich leaves, woodchips, coffee grounds and even bits of paper (called browns). But that's what happens in an outdoor compost pile. Microbes, worms, snails, insects and fungi decompose organic material aerobically, which means they use oxygen as they breakdown the materials in the pile. How it works. Bacteria are the powerhouse of a compost pile. They break down plant matter and create carbon dioxide and heat. Run-of-the-mill microbes usually start off the process, but as their consumption of the compost materials raises the temperature of the pile, heat-loving microorganisms take over
Size. The recommended size for a home compost pile is no smaller than 3 feet X 3 feet X 3 feet, and no larger than 5 feet X 5 feet X 5 feet. A smaller pile may not heat up high enough for efficient breakdown, or it may loose heat and quickly slow down the process. Camoflaging a compost pile can be done in many creative ways. Surrounding the pile with tall flowers or plants or using a vine trellis are just a few examples of how to blend a compost pile into its surroundings.
Put a pile of leaves, a cardboard box and a watermelon in your back yard, exposed to the elements, and they will eventually decompose. How long each takes to break down depends on a number of factors: 1  What are the materials made of. Camoflaging a compost pile can be done in many creative ways. Surrounding the pile with tall flowers or plants or using a vine trellis are just a few examples of how to blend a compost pile into its surroundings.
You can also add garden soil to your compost. A layer of soil will help to mask any odors, and micro-organisms in the soil will accelerate the composting process. Do not compost meat, bones or fish scraps (they will attract pests), perennial weeds (they can be spread with the compost) or diseased plants.
A 4- or 5-tined pitch fork for turning your pile is the main item. You will see compost turners advertised in catalogues, and they do work especially for those who lack upper body strength or have back problems. A garden hose or watering can needs to be handy to water your pile. Camoflaging a compost pile can be done in many creative ways. Surrounding the pile with tall flowers or plants or using a vine trellis are just a few examples of how to blend a compost pile into its surroundings.
Compost is a key ingredient in organic farming. At the simplest level, the process of composting simply requires making a heap of wetted organic matter known as green waste (leaves, food waste) and waiting for the materials to break down into humus after a period of weeks or months. It is used in gardens, landscaping, horticulture, and agriculture. The compost itself is beneficial for the land in many ways, including as a soil conditioner, a fertilizer, addition of vital humus or humic acids, and as a natural pesticide for soil.