An alpha-motoneuron innervates the muscle cell, forming a neuromuscular junction. The presynaptic (neuron) side of the NMJ is specialized to allow the release of acetylcholine from the terminal in response to an action potential. NO is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter causing relaxation of smooth muscle in the GI tract, and it is a significant contributor to the relaxation of vascular smooth muscle (Ach causes release of NO in the vasculature).
The acetylcholine molecules then bind to nicotinic ion-channel receptors on the muscle cell membrane, causing the ion channels to open. Sodium ions then flow into the muscle cell, initiating a sequence of steps that finally produce muscle contraction. Acetylcholine has functions both in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) and in the central nervous system (CNS) as a neuromodulator. In the peripheral nervous system, acetylcholine activates muscles, and is a major neurotransmitter in the autonomic nervous system.
Acetylcholine is the neurotransmitter used at the neuromuscular junction —in other words, it is the chemical that motor neurons of the nervous system release in order to activate muscles. This property means that drugs that affect cholinergic systems can have very dangerous effects ranging from paralysis to convulsions. Acetylcholine has functions both in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) and in the central nervous system (CNS) as a neuromodulator. In the peripheral nervous system, acetylcholine activates muscles, and is a major neurotransmitter in the autonomic nervous system.
Acetylcholine’s Effect On Smooth Muscle. Acetylcholine activates a different type of receptor present in smooth muscle: the muscarinic receptor. When this receptor binds acetylcholine, one result is the release of calcium ions from internal stores. The effect of acetylcholine on cardiac muscle, however, is very different from its effects on skeletal or smooth muscle. In the heart, acetylcholine activation of muscarinic receptors causes channels in the muscle membrane to let potassium pass.
Photo Credit XiXinXing/XiXinXing/Getty Images. Acetylcholine is a chemical messenger, a neurotransmitter, released by nerve cells in many parts of the peripheral nervous system. It controls the contraction of all skeletal or voluntary muscles, for instance. It also affects the contraction of smooth and cardiac muscle. The effect of acetylcholine on cardiac muscle, however, is very different from its effects on skeletal or smooth muscle. In the heart, acetylcholine activation of muscarinic receptors causes channels in the muscle membrane to let potassium pass.
In addition, the neurotransmitter can bind to any one of the nearby smooth muscle cells, a flexibility not found in the NMJ. The chemicals that influence smooth muscle cells: As you'll recall, there is only one neurotransmitter released at the neuromuscular junction-acetylcholine. NO is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter causing relaxation of smooth muscle in the GI tract, and it is a significant contributor to the relaxation of vascular smooth muscle (Ach causes release of NO in the vasculature).
Contraction of smooth muscle by acetylcholine is mediated by activation of muscarinic receptors of which M2 and M3 subtypes are present in longitudinal muscle of guinea pig intestine. The rise in internal calcium suppresses the voltage-dependent inward calcium current. A third important effect is the opening of channels which cause depolarization of the membrane and so increase action potential discharge and contraction in the whole muscle. These channels were studied by voltage-clamp of single cells from longitudinal muscle of rabbit small
However, there are many signals that lead to contraction in smooth muscle, not just one (acetylcholine released from the motoneuron) as in skeletal muscle. These differences will be discussed/illustrated in the next several animations, and then summarized at the end of this section. NO is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter causing relaxation of smooth muscle in the GI tract, and it is a significant contributor to the relaxation of vascular smooth muscle (Ach causes release of NO in the vasculature).
In target cells, activates the production of cGMP. NO is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter causing relaxation of smooth muscle in the GI tract, and it is a significant contributor to the relaxation of vascular smooth muscle (Ach causes release of NO in the vasculature).