The City Commission also appoints its members annually to serve on different county and regional boards: 1  Hillsborough County Council of Governments-Commissioner Michael S. Sparkman; Commissioner William J. Keel. 
4. Hillsborough County. 5726 Panther Loop Plant City, FL 33567. School District of Hillsborough County Early Childhood Learning Programs. 2001 E Cherry St Plant City, FL 33563. (813) 930-7893. Rooms & Rates ». Schools Elementary Schools.
Plant City's original name was Ichepucksassa (also known as Idasukshed) after the Indian village that once occupied the territory. Its name caused so much confusion that the city was renamed Cork, after the postmaster's Irish hometown. It was finally given the name Plant City in commemoration of Henry B. Plant and his railroad, which significantly boosted the commerce in this primarily agricultural community by incorporating it with the South Florida Railroad.
*Driver license services offered at the Tax Collector’s office include original, transfer of out of state license, renewal, duplicate and replacement licenses and issuance of identification cards. Florida license reinstatement services and written exams are also available. There is an additional $6.25 service charge for driver license services at Tax Collector offices. Click here for a list of required documents. Hazardous Materials Endorsement Applications are processed at this location by appointment only.
Hillsborough County is a county located in the State of Florida. As of the 2010 census, the population was 1,229,226, making it the fourth-most populous county in Florida. Its county seat and largest city is Tampa. Hillsborough County is included in the Tampa-St. Petersburg-Clearwater, FL Metropolitan Statistical Area. Sandhill crane at Hillsborough River State Park. On the Hillsborough River near Lettuce Lake Park. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the county has a total area of 1,266 square miles (3,280 km 2), of which 1,020 square miles (2,600 km 2) is land and 246 square miles (640 km 2) (19.4%) is water.
Plant City like much of Florida has a humid subtropical climate with humid and hot summers and warm, dry winters. Since the coolest month mean temperature is 61°F, it narrowly misses the definition of a true tropical climate. It was finally given the name Plant City in commemoration of Henry B. Plant and his railroad, which significantly boosted the commerce in this primarily agricultural community by incorporating it with the South Florida Railroad.
Plant City is known as the winter strawberry capital of the world and hosts the annual Florida Strawberry Festival in the late winter (usually in February or early March), which is attended by people from all over the United States as well as many people from around the world. It was finally given the name Plant City in commemoration of Henry B. Plant and his railroad, which significantly boosted the commerce in this primarily agricultural community by incorporating it with the South Florida Railroad.
Plant City is a city in Hillsborough County, Florida, in the United States, approximately midway between Brandon and Lakeland along Interstate 4. The population was 34,721 at the 2010 census. It was finally given the name Plant City in commemoration of Henry B. Plant and his railroad, which significantly boosted the commerce in this primarily agricultural community by incorporating it with the South Florida Railroad.