Shane /sha-ne/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name (also used less generally as girls' name Shane) is pronounced shayn. It is of Irish and Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Shane is God is gracious. Variant of Sean, from John. Popular in the 1950s and 1960s due to the film Shane. See also Shawn. Shane is a very prominent first name for males (#190 out of 1220, Top 16%) and also a very prominent surname for both adults and children (#4637 out of 150436, Top 3%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Shane for boys.
Shane comes from the way the name Sean seán is pronounced in The ulster dialect of The irish, language as opposed To shaun Or. Shawn shane is also a popular surname with the Prefix, Mc, mac Or', o to Form Anglicized irish surname. patronyms It is an Anglicised version of the Irish name Sean, seán which itself is cognate to the Name. John shane comes from the way the Name sean seán is pronounced In the ulster dialect Of the, irish language as Opposed to Shaun. or shawn
Baby names meanings search results: The name Shane is a baby boy name. The name Shane comes from the Irish origin. In Irish The meaning of the name Shane is: Variant of Sean: Irish variant of John: God is gracious; gift from God. Similar Names:
Shane. An English derivitive of the irish name sean, which is an Irish form of John meaning God's gracious gift.. Shane is a very popular variant of the name Sean in Northern Ireland in memory of Shane O'Neill whose forces won notable victories over the armies of Queen Elizabeth 1st in the sixteenth century. 
Hebrew Meaning: The name Shane is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Shane is: Gift from God. American Meaning: The name Shane is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Shane is: Gift from God. Irish Meaning: The name Shane is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Shane is: Irish: God is gracious; gift from God. 
Meaning of Shane. Hebrew name. In Hebrew, the name Shane means-Gift from God.. Other origins for the name Shane include-Hebrew, Irish, Irish.The name Shane is most often used as a boy name or male name. Hebrew Name Meaning-Gift from God. Origin-Hebrew. Alternate Origins-Irish Irish. Expression num - 2.
Shane is a masculine given name. It is an Anglicised version of the Irish name Sean, seán which itself is cognate to the Name. John shane comes from the way the Name sean seán is pronounced In the ulster dialect Of the, irish language as Opposed to Shaun. or shawn
Shane is also a popular surname with the prefix Mc, Mac, or O', to form Anglicized Irish surname patronyms. The surname was first recorded in Petty's census of Ireland (1659), which lists a Dermot McShane (i.e. Son of Shane). It is an Anglicised version of the Irish name Sean, seán which itself is cognate to the Name. John shane comes from the way the Name sean seán is pronounced In the ulster dialect Of the, irish language as Opposed to Shaun. or shawn
Shane is a masculine given name. It is an Anglicised version of the Irish name Sean, seán which itself is cognate to the Name. john It is an Anglicised version of the Irish name Sean, seán which itself is cognate to the Name. John shane comes from the way the Name sean seán is pronounced In the ulster dialect Of the, irish language as Opposed to Shaun. or shawn