Split and merge into it. Answer by Job Thompson. Confidence votes 24. A presidential parliamentary democracy is a democracy in which the chief executive (usually termed the Prime minister or the Premier is selected from among the members of the Parliament (the legislature). France uses a hybrid system, known as the Semi-Presidential system. The people elect a President to be in charge of the country. The President then names a Prime Minister, w … ho will normally be someone from the National Assembly. The President and Prime Minister have shared powers.
A presidential parliamentary democracy is a democracy in which the chief executive (usually termed the Prime minister or the Premier is selected from among the members of the … Parliament (the legislature). A presidential legislative democracy is a system of government that  has a legislative branch that makes laws. The presidential or  executive branch carries out the policies … and laws. Answered. In Political Theory.
Democracy, or democratic government, is a system of government in which all the people of a state or polity ... are involved in making decisions about its affairs, typically by voting to elect representatives to a parliament or similar assembly, as defined by the Oxford English Dictionary. Democracy contrasts with forms of government where power is either held by an individual, as in an absolute monarchy, or where power is held by a small number of individuals, as in an oligarchy.
1 Presidential Democracy definition by the Oxford Dictionary is given as, A presidential system is a republican system of government where a head of government is also head of state and leads an executive branch that is separate from the legislative branch., Find the exact meaning and Presidential Democracy definition right here. You can now define Presidential Democracy from the leading dictionaries like Oxford, Cambridge and Merriam Webster. Also, you can now find out about etymology along with Presidential Democracy definition.
Definition of a Presidential Democracy A presidential system, also called a congressional system, is a system of government where an executive branch exists and presides (hence the term) separately from the legislature, to which it is not accountable and which cannot in normal circumstances dismiss it. The term presidential system is often used in contrast to cabinet government which is usually a feature of parliamentarism. There also exists a kind of intermediate the semi-presidential system.
Confidence votes 151. A presidential democracy is a system of government in which also called an executive branch exist but is separate from the legislature. We elect a president to make informed decisions for us and to represent our needs in political forums. A presidential legislative democracy is a system of government that  has a legislative branch that makes laws. The presidential or  executive branch carries out the policies … and laws. Answered. In Political Theory.
Define Presidential Democracy. While giving an outline of Presidential Democracy, its definition specifies its distinctness. Thus the necessity to define Presidential Democracy arises. Presidential Democracy can be briefly defined as A system of government where the executive branch exists separately from a legislature. Find the exact meaning and Presidential Democracy definition right here. You can now define Presidential Democracy from the leading dictionaries like Oxford, Cambridge and Merriam Webster. Also, you can now find out about etymology along with Presidential Democracy definition.
Parliamentary democracy is a representative democracy where government is appointed by, or can be dismissed by, representatives as opposed to a presidential rule wherein the president is both head of state and the head of government and is elected by the voters. Democracy contrasts with forms of government where power is either held by an individual, as in an absolute monarchy, or where power is held by a small number of individuals, as in an oligarchy.
This is in contrast to a presidential system in a democracy, where the head of state often is also the head of government, and most importantly, the executive branch does not derive its democratic legitimacy from the legislature. 