Located in the heart of Central America, is a place known as Belize. Belize is bordered by Mexico to the north and Guatemala to the west and south. Belize consists of a land area of 8,867 square miles and is known for having the longest living Barrier Reef in the world that stretches out along the Eastern Coast of Belize.
Belize is located on the Caribbean Coast of Central America, bordering Mexico to the north and Guatemala to the west.
Belize City is the largest city in Belize. It is located on a small peninsula protruding into the Caribbean Sea. It was the capital city until flooding and other damage from a hurricane prompted the government to relocated to Belmopan, nearer the geographic center of the country.
The northern part of Belize is mostly low-lying and swampy with a dense tropical rainforest. The Maya Mountains are located in Southern Belize and the highest point is Victoria Peak at 1122m. The Mayan Mountains form the watershed for thousands of streams and rivers such as the Belize and Honda Rivers.
Belize is located on the East Coast of northern Central America. Belize shares a border on the north with Mexico and the state of Quintana Roo, on the south with the Guatemalan Department of Izabal, on the east with the Caribbean and on the west with the Guatemalan Department of Peten. See map of Belize.
The Belize District (Belize City) and the islands of Belize (Caye Caulker, Ambergris Caye) are to the East. And Southern Belize consists of Stann Creek (Placencia, Hopkins) and Toledo. Yes it’s a small country but the terrain is diverse and there’s so much to explore.
Belize City is the largest city in the Central American country of Belize and was once the capital of the former British Honduras. According to the 2010 census, Belize City has a population of 57,169 people in 16,162 households. It is located at the mouth of the Haulover Creek, which is a tributary of the Belize River.
Belize is located in Central America, which is also part of North America. Central America is the narrow piece of land bordered by the Pacific Ocean on the West and the Caribbean Sea on the East, and connects North America to Sou