1 Click the upper-left cell of the destination area for the consolidated data. 2  In this example, click cell A1 on Sheet3. 3  On the Data menu, click Consolidate. 4  In the Function list, select the summary function that you want Microsoft Excel to use to consolidate the data. 5  In this example, use Sum.
To refer to a cell in Column D (col 4) of the same sheet at a specific Row OFFSET to the row. Some alternatives to Hyperlinks within a worksheet or within a workbook. 1  An Event macro such as double-click that asks for the first letter(s) of a lastname and then invokes the Match Worksheet Function to get you there.
1 In this example, click cell A1 on Sheet3. 2  On the Data menu, click Consolidate. 3  In the Function list, select the summary function that you want Microsoft Excel to use to consolidate the data. 4  In this example, use Sum. 5  In the Reference box, type each source area you want to consolidate, and then click Add.
1 In this example, use Sum. 2  In the Reference box, type each source area you want to consolidate, and then click Add. 3  In this example, type the first area, Sheet1!$A$1:$C$6, and then click Add. 4  Type the second area, Sheet2!$A$1:$C$6 and then click Add. 5  Repeat step 6 for all of the source areas that you want to consolidate.
1 In the Reference box, type each source area you want to consolidate, and then click Add. 2  In this example, type the first area, Sheet1!$A$1:$C$6, and then click Add. 3  Type the second area, Sheet2!$A$1:$C$6 and then click Add. 4  Repeat step 6 for all of the source areas that you want to consolidate.
Tip To cancel a selection of cells, click any cell on the worksheet. Do one of the following: Right-click the selected cells and then click Insert. On the Home tab, in the Cells group, click the arrow under Insert, and then click Insert Sheet Columns.
1 Code to count all print pages from all worksheets & from all open workbooks without activating that worksheets\workbooks. 2  Shailesh Shah, programming, 2002-10-30. 3  For Excel 2007 users Shailesh has an add-on, “ Exshail Classic Menu for Excel-2007 to make a usable menu from the less than useless Excel 2007 Ribbon.
Sudhi. 1. add a comment |. up vote 0 down vote. Go to Format Cells-Custom. Type the required format into the list first. To prefix 0 before the text characters in an Excel column, use the Format 0####. Remember, use the character # equal to the maximum number of digits in a cell of that column.
Tip If you change the validation settings for a cell, you can automatically apply your changes to all other cells that have the same settings. To do so, open the Data Validation dialog box, and then select the Apply these changes to all other cells with the same settings check box on the Settings tab.