Dorsal cavity The smaller of the two main cavities is called the dorsal cavity. As its name implies, it contains organs lying more posterior in the body. The dorsal cavity, again, can be divided into two portions. The upper portion, or the cranial cavity, houses the brain, and the lower portion, or vertebral canal houses the spinal cord. Source(s): http://training.seer.cancer.gov/module_a...
Body Cavaties. The cavities, or spaces, of the body contain the internal organs, or viscera. The two main cavities are called the ventral and dorsal cavities. The ventral is the larger cavity and is subdivided into two parts (thoracic and abdominopelvic cavities) by the diaphragm, a dome-shaped respiratory muscle. The abdominal cavity contains most of the gastrointestinal tract as well as the kidneys and adrenal glands. The abdominal cavity is bound cranially by the diaphragm, laterally by the body wall, and caudally by the pelvic cavity. The pelvic cavity contains most of the urogenital system as well as the rectum.
The kidneys are located behind (posterior to) the abdominal cavity, in the retroperotoneum. Yes, the kidneys are located outside of the peritoneal cavity. In anatomy, they are … referred to as being retroperitoneal. Kidneys are retroperitoneal and so lie between the peritoneum and the abdominal wall, in the retroperitoneal space (a part of the abdominal cavity). 2 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Attempting a Kidney Detox Diet Your kidneys are designed to filter your bloodstream of unneeded waste and water.
A few organs, such as the kidneys and pancreas, lie between the peritoneal lining and the muscular wall of the abdominal cavity. Those organs are said to be retroperitoneal (retro, behind). The pelvic cavity is the portion of the ventral body cavity inferior to the abdominal cavity. 
The cavities, or spaces, of the body contain the internal organs, or viscera. The two main cavities are called the ventral and dorsal cavities. The ventral is the larger cavity and is subdivided into two parts (thoracic and abdominopelvic cavities) by the diaphragm, a dome-shaped respiratory muscle. As its name implies, it contains organs lying more posterior in the body. The dorsal cavity, again, can be divided into two portions. The upper portion, or the cranial cavity, houses the brain, and the lower portion, or vertebral canal houses the spinal cord. Source(s): http://training.seer.cancer.gov/module_a...
Thoracic cavity: thoracic means chest, this cavity is located in the anterior portion of the body and the mediastinum. It contains the cavity that surrounds the breast bone and ribs. Containing the lungs, heart, trachea, larynx and bronchial tubes. 3. Abdominal cavity: This cavity includes the diaphragm, stomach, liver, kidneys, gallbladder, and stomach, large intestines and small intestines. 4. Pelvic cavity: This cavity includes the urinary bladder, ureters, urethra, rectum and anus, and the uterus in females, prostate gland in males. 5.
The dorsal (posterior) cavity and the ventral (anterior) cavity are the largest body compartments. These cavities contain and protect delicate internal organs, and the ventral cavity allows for significant changes in the size and shape of the organs as they perform their functions. Mammalian embryos develop two cavities: the intraembryonic coelom and the extraembryonic coelom (or chorionic cavity). The intraembryonic coelom is lined by somatic and splanchnic lateral plate mesoderm, while the extraembryonic coelom is lined by extraembryonic mesoderm.
The abdominal cavity contains most of the gastrointestinal tract as well as the kidneys and adrenal glands. The abdominal cavity is bound cranially by the diaphragm, laterally by the body wall, and caudally by the pelvic cavity. The pelvic cavity contains most of the urogenital system as well as the rectum. As its name implies, it contains organs lying more posterior in the body. The dorsal cavity, again, can be divided into two portions. The upper portion, or the cranial cavity, houses the brain, and the lower portion, or vertebral canal houses the spinal cord. Source(s): http://training.seer.cancer.gov/module_a...
The kidneys are located behind (posterior to) the abdominal cavity, in the retroperotoneum. Yes, the kidneys are located outside of the peritoneal cavity. In anatomy, they are … referred to as being retroperitoneal. No. Unlike the other abdominal organs, the kidneys lie behind the peritoneum that lines the abdominal cavity and are thus considered to be retroperitoneal organs. 
Located at the rear of the abdominal cavity in the retroperitoneal space, the kidneys receive blood from the paired renal arteries, and drain into the paired renal veins. Each kidney excretes urine into a ureter which empties into the bladder. They serve the body as a natural filter of the blood, and remove water-soluble wastes which are diverted to the bladder. In producing urine, the kidneys excrete wastes such as urea and ammonium. They are also responsible for the reabsorption of water, glucose, and amino acids.