From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The anterior inferior iliac spine (abbreviated: AIIS) is a bony eminence on the anterior border of the hip bone, or, more precisely, the wing of the ilium (i.e. the upper lateral parts of the pelvis). 
The anterior superior iliac spine, which develops from an anterior apophysis of the iliac crest, is the site of origin of the sartorius muscle and part of the tensor fasciae latae. Abstract. Avulsion fractures of the anterior superior iliac spine are rare. This injury is usually seen in adolescents, as an avulsion fracture of the apophyses, a result of sudden vigorous contraction or repetitive contraction of the sartorius and tensor fasciae latae muscles.
Therefore, an avulsion fracture of the anterior superior iliac spine is most commonly due to forceful contraction or sudden repetitive actions of these muscles, as occurs when running or kicking a ball [ 3, 4 ]. Abstract. Avulsion fractures of the anterior superior iliac spine are rare. This injury is usually seen in adolescents, as an avulsion fracture of the apophyses, a result of sudden vigorous contraction or repetitive contraction of the sartorius and tensor fasciae latae muscles.
At this point, the Superficial Front Line attaches on the Anterior Inferior Iliac Spine (AIIS), which is the origin of the rectus femoris. This is just below the Anterior Superior Iliac Spine (ASIS). 
The tensor fasciae latae and sartorius muscles of the thigh have their origins at the anterior superior spine. The internal and external oblique muscles and transverse abdominis muscle of the abdomen arise from tendons along the anterior edge of the iliac crest. Iliac Crest. The iliac crest is the curved superior border of the ilium, the largest of the three bones that merge to form the os coxa, or hip bone. It is located on the superior and lateral edge of the ilium very close to the surface of the skin in the hip region
The anterior superior iliac spine (abbreviated: ASIS) is a bony projection of the iliac bone and an important landmark of surface anatomy. It refers to the anterior extremity of the iliac crest of the pelvis, which provides attachment for the inguinal ligament, and the sartorius muscle. The anterior superior iliac spine provides a clue in identifying some other clinical landmarks, including: 1  McBurney's point. 2  Roser-Nelaton nélaton. 3  Line true leg (length see unequal leg).  length
From the anterior superior iliac spine, the iliac crest continues around the superior edge of the ilium as a flattened enlargement of the ilium.... Click to read more below. The iliac crest is the curved superior border of the ilium, the largest of the three bones that merge to form the os coxa, or hip bone. It is located on the superior and lateral edge of the ilium very close to the surface of the skin in the hip region. Iliac Crest. The iliac crest is the curved superior border of the ilium, the largest of the three bones that merge to form the os coxa, or hip bone.