Pseudoephedrine is a drug found in both prescription and over-the-counter products used to relieve nasal or sinus congestion caused by the common cold, sinusitis, hay fever, and other respiratory allergies. 
1 Review. Pseudoephedrine is a drug found in numerous prescription and behind-the-counter medications, including Sudafed Congestion (but not Sudafed PE), Zyrtec-D, and Claritin-D. It's used to temporarily relieve nasal congestion from colds, allergies, and hay fever, and temporarily relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Pseudoephedrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants, which cause smooth muscles around the airway and nasal cavity to relax, allowing more air to flow through. It also causes blood vessels to contract.
Pseudoephedrine can be used to make methamphetamine, or meth, a powerful and highly addictive stimulant. For many years, the drug was available over-the-counter (OTC) without prescription or restrictions. Pseudoephedrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants, which cause smooth muscles around the airway and nasal cavity to relax, allowing more air to flow through. It also causes blood vessels to contract.
Pseudoephedrine (/ˌsjuːdoʊ.ɨˈfɛdrɪn/ or /ˌsjuːdoʊˈɛfɨdriːn/ ; PSE) is a sympathomimetic drug of the phenethylamine and amphetamine chemical classes. It may be used as a nasal/sinus decongestant, as a stimulant, or as a wakefulness-promoting agent. The dextrorotary (+)- or d-enantiomer is (1 S ,2 S)-pseudoephedrine, whereas the levorotating (−)- or l-form is (1 R ,2 R)-pseudoephedrine.
All products from the makers of SUDAFED® contain a nasal decongestant, either pseudoephedrine or phenylephrine. Because, pseudoephedrine can be used to illegally manufacture methamphetamines (also known as meth), federal regulations require that it be sold behind the pharmacy or service counter. A prescription is not required to purchase these products.
In the outdated d/l system (+)-pseudoephedrine is also referred to as l-pseudoephedrine and (−)-pseudoephedrine as d-pseudoephedrine (in the Fisher projection then the phenyl ring is drawn at bottom). Often the d/l system (with small caps) and the d/l system (with lower-case) are confused. The dextrorotary (+)- or d-enantiomer is (1 S ,2 S)-pseudoephedrine, whereas the levorotating (−)- or l-form is (1 R ,2 R)-pseudoephedrine.
Uses of This Medicine. Pseudoephedrine is used to relieve nasal or sinus congestion caused by the common cold, sinusitis, and hay fever and other respiratory allergies. It is also used to relieve ear congestion caused by ear inflammation or infection. You should not use this medicine if you have ever had an allergic reaction to pseudoephedrine. Do not give any over-the-counter (OTC) cough and cold medicine to a baby or child under 4 years old.
Descriptions. Pseudoephedrine is used to relieve nasal or sinus congestion caused by the common cold, sinusitis, and hay fever and other respiratory allergies. It is also used to relieve ear congestion caused by ear inflammation or infection. Some of these preparations are available only with your doctor's prescription. 
Proper Use. Drug information provided by: Micromedex. For patients taking pseudoephedrine extended-release capsules: 1  Swallow the capsule whole. 2  However, if the capsule is too large to swallow, you may mix the contents of the capsule with jam or jelly and swallow without chewing. 3  Do not crush or chew before swallowing. 
How to use Pseudoephedrine Cold/Allergy. Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor. If you are self-treating, follow all directions on the product package. If you are uncertain about any of the information, ask your doctor or pharmacist. If your doctor has directed you to use this product, remember that he or she has judged that the benefit to you is greater than the risk of side effects. Many people using the product do not have serious