People with Poland syndrome are missing part of one of the major chest muscles, called the pectoralis major. In most affected individuals, the missing part is the large section of the muscle that normally attaches to the upper arm on one side and the breastbone (sternum) on the other. Many people with Poland syndrome have hand abnormalities, commonly including an underdeveloped hand with abnormally short fingers (brachydactyly); small, underdeveloped (vestigial) fingers; and some fingers that are fused together (syndactyly). This combination of hand abnormalities is called symbrachydactyly.
Important. It is possible that the main title of the report Poland Syndrome is not the name you expected. Please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report. 
Poland syndrome is a rare congenital condition characterized by a deformity in the chest wall. The deformity in the chest wall includes the following: 1  Absent or hypoplasia of the breast and/or nipple. 2  Absent pectoralis minor muscle. 3  Absent costal cartilages. 4  Absent 2 nd to 5 th rib (on the side affected). 
Poland syndrome is noted for the underdevelopment or absence of the chest (pectoralis) muscles on one side of the body as well as webbing of the fingers (cutaneous syndactyly) on the hand of the same side (ipsilateral side) of the body. 1 Poland syndrome is a congenital malformation affecting the chest muscle and hand on one side of the body. 2  The cause of Poland syndrome is not yet certain. 3  The main chest muscle (the pectoralis major) is absent. 4  The fingers are webbed on the sam
Poland syndrome is a rare birth condition characterized by the absence of the chest muscle on one side of the body and by webbing of the fingers. The cause of this condition is unknown and treatment usually consists of muscle and breast reconstruction, as well as separation of the joined fingers. slide 1 of 3. Poland Syndrome. Poland syndrome is a rare birth condition that affects between one in 10,000 and one in 100,000 children. Also known as Poland’s anomaly, the features of this defect usually vary from person to person.
1 Poland Syndrome: A rare genetic disorder characterized by hand syndactyly and abnormality of one chest muscle. 2  Poland Syndrome: A syndrome which is characterized by symbrachydactyly and aplasia of the sternal head of pectoralis major. 3  Source-Diseases Database. 
Overview. Poland syndrome is characterized by an underdeveloped or absent chest muscle on one side of the body, absence of the breastbone portion (sternal) of the chest muscle, and webbing of the fingers of the hand on the same side. The cause of Poland syndrome is not known. This syndrome is nearly always sporadic. 
Poland syndrome is a disorder in which affected individuals are born with missing or abnormal muscles on one side of the chest wall. Most individuals with Poland syndrome also have abnormalities of the hand, which often involve shortened fingers, partial fusion of the fingers, or both. Many people with Poland syndrome have hand abnormalities, commonly including an underdeveloped hand with abnormally short fingers (brachydactyly); small, underdeveloped (vestigial) fingers; and some fingers that are fused together (syndactyly). This combination of hand abnormalities is called symbrachydactyly.