Enotria Group Limited acquired by BlueGem Capital Partners /. Livingbridge is pleased to announce the sale of Enotria Group Limited to funds managed by BlueGem Capital Partners LLP. Enotria is the UK’s leading specialist wine provider with 40 years experience of supplying both On and Off-Trades. The business was founded by Remo Nardone in 1972 and soon established itself as the leading importer of Italian wines, a reputation it still enjoys today. A main priority at the point of Livingbridge’s investment was to ensure the safeguarding of the family ethos and culture instilled in Enotria by Remo, whilst building the leadership team under the new CEO, Alison Levett, who joined the business in 2006.
Notes for Editors: Enotria is a wine wholesaler and importer. Established in 1972, it has built up a strong business in the UK nationwide On Trade, as well as supplying multiple grocers and independent wine merchants. Great Western Wine was founded 27 years ago by their Managing Director, Philip Addis. Philip will, with immediate effect, be joining the Enotria Board as Regional Sales Director where he will manage both the existing Great Western sales team and the Enotria sales managers outside of London.
Enotria Translations is a specialized translation company, providing certified translations from French, Chinese, Croatian, German, Italian, Japanese, Portuguese and Spanish. We also provide cultural and localization services worldwide. Translation has become a necessity in today's world of global trade and e-commerce. Enotria Translations is a reliable partner in meeting these evolving challenges. Facilitating our clients efforts to communicate and succeed in the global arena is our priority.
UK wine importer Enotria has been taken over in a £25m management buyout. Enotria. Private equity fund BlueGem Capital Partners, alongside CEO Alison Levett and the Enotria management team secured £25m debt finance from Investec Growth & Acquisition Finance for the acquistion. Enotria was founded in 1972 by Remo Nardone, to import mainly Italian wines. It grew, with the acquisition of Wheeler Cellars in 2008 and Great Western Wine in 2010, to one of the UK’s biggest specialist importers and distributors. 
Like Enotria, Great Western Wine has been founded on a passion for wine, a portfolio of fabulous family wine estates and a total commitment to service, so I am extremely confident that we will have an exciting time working together over the coming years. Great Western Wine was founded 27 years ago by their Managing Director, Philip Addis. Philip will, with immediate effect, be joining the Enotria Board as Regional Sales Director where he will manage both the existing Great Western sales team and the Enotria sales managers outside of London.
1 2011: 200-plus suppliers in 13 countries. 2  At 2005: 70 suppliers in 12 countries. 3  The strengthened team, improved financial rigour and systems developed during the first 3 years of the partnership enabled Enotria to turn recession into opportunity and continue on a path of growth. 1 At 2005: 70 suppliers in 12 countries. 2
The region is a long and narrow peninsula which stretches from north to south for 248 km (154 mi), with a maximum width of 110 km (68 mi). Some 42% of Calabria's area, corresponding to 15,080 km 2, is mountainous, 49% is hilly, while plains occupy only 9% of the region's territory. In the 1060s the Normans, under the leadership of Robert Guiscard 's brother Roger, established a presence in this borderland, and organized a government along Byzantine lines that was run by the local Greek magnates of Calabria.
It is bordered to the north by the region of Basilicata, to the west by the Tyrrhenian Sea, and to the east by the Ionian Sea. The region covers 15,080 km 2 (5,822 sq mi) and has a population of just under 2 million. The demonym of Calabria in English is Calabrian. In the 1060s the Normans, under the leadership of Robert Guiscard 's brother Roger, established a presence in this borderland, and organized a government along Byzantine lines that was run by the local Greek magnates of Calabria.