The internal abdominal oblique muscle is an opposing force to the diaphragm, reducing upper chest cavity volume during exhalation. As the diaphragm contracts, the chest cavity is pulled down to increase lung size. The internal abdominal oblique muscle is located closer to the skin than the transverse abdominal muscle.
The oblique muscles are located on both sides of the abdomen running diagonally along the rectus abdominis, which is the center abdominal muscle. There are two sets of oblique … s, the external and the internal. The external obliques are more superficial while the internal obliques are a deeper muscle. 
The oblique muscles are considered part of the abdominal muscles. They are located between the ribs and the pelvis and make up the waist. The obliques help the trunk to rotate and bend. There are the external obliques which are large muscles close to the surface of the skin. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The external oblique muscle (of the abdomen) (also external abdominal oblique muscle) is the largest and the most superficial (outermost) of the three flat muscles of the lateral anterior abdomen. In most humans (especially females), the oblique is not visible, due to subcutaneous fat deposits and the small size of the muscle. It arises from eight fleshy digitations, each from the external surfaces and inferior borders of the fifth to twelfth ribs.
: something (as a line) that is oblique. 2. : any of several oblique muscles; especially: any of the thin flat muscles forming the middle and outer layers of the lateral walls of the abdomen. See oblique defined for English-language learners. 
Structure [edit]. The external oblique is situated on the lateral and anterior parts of the abdomen. It is broad, thin, and irregularly quadrilateral, its muscular portion occupying the side, its aponeurosis the anterior wall of the abdomen. In most humans (especially females), the oblique is not visible, due to subcutaneous fat deposits and the small size of the muscle. It arises from eight fleshy digitations, each from the external surfaces and inferior borders of the fifth to twelfth ribs.
External Abdominal Oblique Muscle. The external abdominal obliques are a pair of broad, thin, superficial muscles that lie on the lateral sides of the abdominal region of the body. Contraction of these muscles may result in several different actions, but they are best known for their lateral flexion and rotation of the trunk known as a side bend. The external obliques get their name from their position in the abdomen external to the internal abdominal obliques and from the direction of their fibers, which run obliquely (diagonally) across the sides of the abdomen....
External oblique. The external oblique muscle is one of the largest parts of the trunk area. Each side of the body has an external oblique muscle. The external oblique muscle is one of the outermost abdominal muscles, extending from the lower half of the ribs around and down to the pelvis
The internal abdominal oblique muscle ends at the bottom edge of the rib cage, the rectus sheath (fibrous tissue that covers the abdominal muscles), and the pubic crest (an area in the lower-front of the pelvis). The internal abdominal oblique muscle is located closer to the skin than the transverse abdominal muscle. This muscle supports the abdominal wall, assists in forced respiration, aids in raising pressure in the abdominal area, and rotates and turns the trunk with help from other muscles