2015 NASCAR at Texas Motor Speedway weather forecast: Let not your heart be troubled. By Brian Neudorff  @NASCAR_WXMAN on Apr 10, 2015, 8:00a +. What looked like a wet forecast for NASCAR earlier in the week, has greatly improved. That's one of the reason I tell people to proceed with caution when they read or look at a weather forecast seven to five days in advance. Despite all the advancements in the field of meteorology, a lot will and usually does change over a course of several days. That's exactly what happened this week.
Rain showers and a few storms storms will pass over Texas Motor Speedway this morning and into the afternoon. The odds of starting the Duck Commander 500 on time this afternoon (green flag at approximately 3:16 p.m. EDT) is less than 10 percent. I’d say the odds are the same for seeing any racing this afternoon. Weather for both tonight’s Sprint Cup All-Star race at Charlotte Motor Speedway and the Nationwide race at Iowa Speedway on Sunday look to be quiet from weather stand point. Fair weather is expected for both and pleasant racing temperatures. Detailed forecasts for both races can be found below.
It's the third time in seven Sprint Cup Series races this season that rain has hampered the event. The season-opening Daytona 500 was stopped for more than six hours, and the race at Bristol Motor Speedway had two delays totaling more than five hours. At least the fans who braved the rain got to enjoy the Robertson family antics. Uncle Si was wearing a sparkly jumpsuit meant to resemble a firesuit.
Rain has postponed NASCAR's Sprint Cup Duck Commander 500 at Texas Motor Speedway until noon EDT, Monday. Driver introductions were held but the race was delayed until early Sunday evening before NASCAR announced the postponement about 7:10 p.m. EDT. Track is going to take longer to dry. A dryer runs on the track before a postponement was announced for the NASCAR Sprint Cup Series auto race at Texas Motor Speedway in Fort Worth, Texas, Sunday, April 6, 2014. The race is now scheduled for noon EDT, Monday. (AP Photo/Ralph Lauer).
It's the third time in seven Sprint Cup Series races this season that rain has hampered the event. The season-opening Daytona 500 was stopped for more than six hours, and the race at Bristol Motor Speedway had two delays totaling more than five hours. At least the fans who braved the rain got to enjoy the Robertson family antics. Uncle Si was wearing a sparkly jumpsuit meant to resemble a firesuit.
Texas Motor Speedway. On a day when the weather was more suitable for ducks than racing, the Sprint Cup Series at Texas Motor Speedway became NASCAR's first rainout of the season. The season-opening Daytona 500 was stopped for more than six hours, and the race at Bristol Motor Speedway had two delays totaling more than five hours. At least the fans who braved the rain got to enjoy the Robertson family antics. Uncle Si was wearing a sparkly jumpsuit meant to resemble a firesuit.
2015 NASCAR at Texas Motor Speedway race day weather forecast. By Brian Neudorff  @NASCAR_WXMAN on Apr 11, 2015, 8:00a +. Forecast all week has been calling for rain during tonight's NASCAR Sprint Cup race at Texas Motor Speedway. This is a tough forecast, one of the toughest so far this year. I am confident we race Saturday night but while I feel good rain will form where it will and some could come over the track either causing a delay or in the very low chance a postponement.
Current weather conditions for Texas Motor Speedway, TX, are obtained from the closest government operated station, a personal station contributing to our PWSweather.com network which may have varying degrees of accuracy or from the Meteorological Assimilation Data Ingest System (MADIS) . 
FORT WORTH, Texas (AP) -- On a day when the weather was more suitable for ducks than racing, the Sprint Cup Series at Texas Motor Speedway became NASCAR's first rainout of the season. The season-opening Daytona 500 was stopped for more than six hours, and the race at Bristol Motor Speedway had two delays totaling more than five hours. At least the fans who braved the rain got to enjoy the Robertson family antics. Uncle Si was wearing a sparkly jumpsuit meant to resemble a firesuit.