Inulin/FOS has been dubbed a prebiotic, essentially serving as. fertilizer for the bacteria in your colon. Certain lactobacillus species of bacteria have been shown to preferentially ferment Inulin/FOS. For this reason, it is being promoted as a supplement to feed the good bacteria in our guts. If you examine the scientific literature about Inulin/FOS, you will find that this is untrue. The best example is concerning Klebsiella. Recent studies have shown that Inulin/FOS encourages the growth of Klebsiella, a bacterium implicated in Ankylosing Spondylitis and increased intestinal permeability.
FOS stands for fructo-oligosaccharides, and these sugars linked together in chain formation. Inulin is a popular version of an FOS that is often added to foods with probiotics and is also marketed under the names Neosugar, Alant Starch, Atlanta Starch, Alantin, Dahlin, Helenin and Diabetic Sugar. FOS is found naturally in certain foods, such as asparagus, garlic, Jerusalem artichokes and chicory root
Recent studies have shown that inulin/FOS encourages the growth of Klebsiella, a bacteria implicated in Ankylosing Spondylitis and in increased intestinal permeability (leaky gut). Although present in the colon of most people, it is held in check by beneficial bacteria and is harmless WITHIN the colon. Inulin/FOS may indeed promote the growth of lactobacillus bacteria, but what other potentially harmful bacteria are being fed at the same time? Furthermore, many different species of yeast are able to utilize inulin/FOS for energy including Candida Albicans.
Inulin is used by some plants as a means of storing energy and is typically found in roots or rhizomes. Most plants that synthesize and store inulin do not store other forms of carbohydrate such as starch. It can be used to replace sugar, fat, and flour. This is advantageous because inulin contains 25-35% of the food energy of carbohydrates (starch, sugar). In addition to being a versatile ingredient, inulin has many health benefits.
INULIN Overview Information. Inulin is a starchy substance found in a wide variety of fruits, vegetables, and herbs, including wheat, onions, bananas, leeks, artichokes, and asparagus. The inulin that is used for medicine is most commonly obtained by soaking chicory roots in hot water. 
It is a soluble fiber as opposed to cellulose which is insoluble. Inulin/FOS also goes by names such as Neosugar, Alant Starch, Atlanta Starch, Alantin, Dahlin, Helenin, and Diabetic Sugar. It also has a slightly sweet taste and is very low on the glycemic index making it suitable for diabetics. There are even some claims it can be used as a sugar substitute. Inulin/FOS may indeed promote the growth of lactobacillus bacteria, but what other potentially harmful bacteria are being fed at the same time? Furthermore, many different species of yeast are able to utilize inulin/FOS for energy including Candida Albicans.
Two different classes of fructooligosaccharide (FOS) mixtures are produced commercially, based on inulin degradation or transfructosylation processes. FOS can be produced by degradation of inulin, or polyfructose, a polymer of. -fructose residues linked by β(2→1) bonds with a terminal α(1→2) linked. 
Fructo-oligosaccharides (FOS) and inulin are types of fructo-polysaccharides, comprised of -(glucose-fructose)- subunits. The only difference between FOS and inulin is polymer chain length. Inulin/FOS also goes by the name of Neosugar, Alant Starch, Atlanta Starch, Alantin, Dahlin, Helenin, and Diabetic Sugar. Inulin tastes sweet, cannot be digested by humans, and is soluble (unlike cellulose). 2. If you examine the scientific literature about Inulin/FOS, you will find that this is untrue. The best example is concerning Klebsiella. Recent studies have shown that Inulin/FOS encourages the growth of Klebsiella, a bacterium implicated in Ankylosing Spondylitis and increased intestinal permeability.
1. Fructo-oligosaccharides (FOS) and inulin are types of fructo-polysaccharides, comprised of -(glucose-fructose)- subunits. The only difference between FOS and inulin is polymer chain length. Inulin/FOS also goes by the name of Neosugar, Alant Starch, Atlanta Starch, Alantin, Dahlin, Helenin, and Diabetic Sugar. Inulin tastes sweet, and it cannot be digested by humans, and it is soluble (unlike cellulose). Inulin/FOS is a soluble fiber that is quickly and easily fermented. The difference between cellulose (a food we are adapted to) and Inulin/FOS (a food we are not adapted to) is like the difference between a slow burning ember and a raging fire.