Total Pay (?XTotal Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job. It does not include equity (stock) compensation, cash value of retirement benefits, or the value of other non-cash benefits (e.g. healthcare).). X 
(2) Annual wages have been calculated by multiplying the hourly mean wage by a year-round, full-time hours figure of 2,080 hours; for those occupations where there is not an hourly mean wage published, the annual wage has been directly calculated from the reported survey data. The median wage is the 50th percentile wage estimate--50 percent of workers earn less than the median and 50 percent of workers earn more than the median.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical File Clerk in the United States is $28,055, so 50% of the people who perform the job of File Clerk in the United States are expected to make less than $28,055. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. 3  Benefits. 4  Purchase Full Report. 
I currently work part time as a law clerk in a legal department and they pay me $30/hour. Edit: I am in the Chicago market and in the legal department of a transportation company. Last edited by Icculus on Fri Dec 14, 2012 5:57 pm, edited 1 time in total. Its not that high of a rate for a contractor in most specialty fields but from what I can see, law firms usually don't pay that much for positions that are essentially overhead and not revenue generating. Anonymous User wrote:I made $42/hr during my 2L & 3L year as a law clerk. Minneapolis office.
X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job. Therefore, law clerks must be skilled at using information systems. The position of law clerk is usually a stepping stone leading to other major positions in law, such as the positions of a lawyer or a judge.
Re: Law clerk pay?? Post by 84weeks » Sun Dec 16, 2012 1:17 am. 3L here: I make $16/hour at a mid-sized plaintiffs firm in a small market (so, $16/hour is big potatoes). However, depending on the case, my billing rate can be ten times that amount. Its not that high of a rate for a contractor in most specialty fields but from what I can see, law firms usually don't pay that much for positions that are essentially overhead and not revenue generating. Anonymous User wrote:I made $42/hr during my 2L & 3L year as a law clerk. Minneapolis office.
Law Clerk Salary. (United States). The average wage for a Law Clerk is $14.98 per hour. A skill in Legal Writing is associated with high pay for this job. People in this job generally don't have more than 10 years' experience. $27,425 - $77,315. Therefore, law clerks must be skilled at using information systems. The position of law clerk is usually a stepping stone leading to other major positions in law, such as the positions of a lawyer or a judge.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Court Clerk in the United States is $36,351, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Court Clerk in the United States are expected to make less than $36,351. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. 3  Benefits. Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at companies of all sizes and industries to present this range of annual salaries for people with the job title Court Clerk in the United States.
If you want to negotiate for a higher salary, please don’t tell a law firm managing partner that you consider his firm’s summer wages to be on par with those of a “McDonald’s hourly worker”…. Last week, a small law firm in Philadelphia was conducting interviews for full-time summer law clerk positions. The firm typically hires three law clerks each summer, and the pay is $10 per hour. According to our tipster, that salary was non-negotiable. 