All dieticians are nutritionists, but not all nutritionists are dieticians. Only a licensed dietician or licensed dietician-nutritionist can legally use the title “dietician.” Licensed nutritionists are also certified and regulated by most states, but use of the title “nutritionist” is less regulated than “dietician.”.
Nutritionist & Dietitian Licensing BodiesThe national licensing department for nutritionists and dietitians in the United States is the American Dietetic Association (ADA). The ADA oversees the registration and certification for all 50 states, yet directly oversees certification for just 27 of these states.
1 The position of ‘Nutritionist’ is not a specifically registered or certified title, as opposed to the term ‘Dietitian’ or ‘Registered Dietitian’, approved only by the American Dietetic Association’s Commission for Dietetic Registration (CDR).
Find the licensure requirements for your state by visiting the website of the Commission on Dieticians and Nutritionists. 1  If you are ever thinking about moving (or practicing with a long commute), consider getting licensed in another state as well.
A nutritionist is not nationally recognized, but individual states sometimes require nutritionists to be licensed. However, in order to communicate a broader concept of wellness, the AND has introduced the registered dietitian nutritionist (RDN) designation.
Clinical dietitians and nutritionists provide medical nutrition therapy. They work in hospitals, long-term care facilities, clinics, private practice, and other institutions. They create nutritional programs based on the health needs of patients or residents and counsel patients on how to lead a healthier lifestyle.
Dietitians and nutritionists counsel patients on nutrition issues. Dietitians and nutritionists are experts in food and nutrition. They advise people on what to eat in order to lead a healthy lifestyle or achieve a specific health-related goal.
It is difficult to pinpoint an average income for Non-Licensed Nutritionists in the United States, as the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) of the U.S. Department of Labor does not maintain separate statistics for nutritionists without licenses. In May 2012, the mean annual income for a Licensed Nutritionist was $56,170.