Many healthy individuals are concerned that they have too much intestinal gas, thinking that their digestive tract could be malfunctioning. While gas in itself is not dangerous, our inability to control its passage might have social implications. Studies have shown that the average person generates 0.6-1.8L of gas per day. This gas comes from two sources, swallowed air (exogenous) and that produced by colonic bacteria (endogenous). Intestinal gas is composed of various amounts of oxygen, nitrogen, carbon dioxide, hydrogen, and methane. Oxygen, nitrogen, and carbon dioxide come from swallowed air and hydrogen and methane are by-products of the breakdown of food residue by good bacteria (probiotics) naturally residing in the colon
Intestinal bacteria is continuously produced. Blended with small amounts of that air, this newly produced gas is passed through with intestinal contractions. To prevent gas from accumulating in the intestines, flatulence, or the passing of intestinal gas, occurs. Gases are formed in the intestines which may lead to stomach indigestion and bloating. When there is stomach flatulence, there is sometimes cramping which leads to intestinal gas and stomach belching. Some may believe that swallowed air is the reasoning behind stomach flatulence.
Some gas after eating – and releasing it through belching or flatulence – is normal. According to the National Digestive Diseases Information Clearinghouse, most people produce as many as one to four pints of gas a day, which they pass, on average, about 14 times a day. 
Intestinal gas is typically caused by the fermentation of undigested food, such as plant fiber, in the colon. Gas can also form when your digestive system doesn't completely break down certain components in foods, such as gluten or the sugar in dairy products and fruit. Other sources of intestinal gas may include: 
Flatus is also the medical word for gas generated in the stomach or bowels. These standard definitions do not reflect the fact that a proportion of intestinal gas may be composed of swallowed environmental air, and hence flatus is not totally generated in the stomach or bowels. Again, it is emphasised that increased volume of intestinal gas will not cause bloating and pain in normal subjects. Abnormal intestinal gas dynamics will create pain, distension and bloating, regardless of whether there is high or low total flatus volume.
There are five general symptoms related to intestinal gas: pain, bloating and abdominal distension, excessive flatus volume, excessive flatus smell and gas incontinence. Furthermore, eructation (an act or instance of belching, colloquially known as burping) is sometimes included under the topic of flatulence. Again, it is emphasised that increased volume of intestinal gas will not cause bloating and pain in normal subjects. Abnormal intestinal gas dynamics will create pain, distension and bloating, regardless of whether there is high or low total flatus volume.
The intestinal bacteria will produce intestinal gas during the digestive process. Gases are formed in the intestines which may lead to stomach indigestion and bloating. When there is stomach flatulence, there is sometimes cramping which leads to intestinal gas and stomach belching. Some may believe that swallowed air is the reasoning behind stomach flatulence.
Intestinal Bacteria. Most of the flatulence your body produces is due to intestinal bacteria, which create methane, and other gases, as a byproduct of digestion. Imbalances between unhealthy bacteria and healthy probiotic colonies can influence how much intestinal gas a person may produce. 
1 Stomach bloating and pain is usually caused by a nuisance of air bubbles produced by our bodies. 2  Intestinal bacteria produces gas during digestion. 3  Sugar can be the culprit of your flatulence problems. 4  Sugar sweeteners like sorbitol and fructose will sometimes initiate the uninvited stomach indigestion problems. Gases are formed in the intestines which may lead to stomach indigestion and bloating. When there is stomach flatulence, there is sometimes cramping which leads to intestinal gas and stomach belching. Some may believe that swallowed air is the reasoning behind stomach flatulence.
The friendly bacteria in our guts help digest foods that our bodies have trouble breaking down. These bacteria also produce gas, usually as they digest food in the large intestines. Foods most often linked to intestinal gas include: 1  Beans and lentils. 2  Asparagus, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, and other vegetables. 3  Fructose, a natural sugar found in artichokes, onions, pears, wheat, and some soft drinks. 