It is most associated with the work of psychologist Albert Bandura, who implemented some of the seminal studies in the area and initiated social learning theory. It involves the process of learning to copy or model the action of another through observing another doing it.
Vicarious reinforcement is a product of Albert Bandura's efforts to define learning in his Observational Learning theory. This theory was developed in the 1970's.
Bandura's social learning theory stresses the importance of observational learning, imitation and modeling. His theory integrates a continuous interaction between behaviors, personal factors-including cognition-and the environment referred to as reciprocal causation model.
Book Definition: There was no book definition for this term, but a definition I found from PsychExchange.co.uk was Vicarious reinforcement is a reinforcement which is received indirectly by observing another person who is being reinforced..
The fact that they can all be used for vicarious reinforcement! When two people are given the same task, and one is excelling and the other is slacking, one way to push the slacker to do more is to reward the positive behavior of the other person.
Vicarious Learning/Observational Learning/Social Learning/Modeling. Observational learning (also known as: vicarious learning or social learning or modeling) is learning that occurs as a function of observing, retaining and replicating behavior observed in others.
Observational learning is exactly what is sounds like; the only difference between the aforesaid and vicarious learning is that vicarious learning applies solely to learning b … y observing the consequences of others' actions.
According to the social learning theory, behaviours are learned through different means, one of them being observation of others. This is sometimes called vicarious rein … forcement. A reinforcement goal is to increase the probability of apparition of a behavior.
1 Learning from observing tutoring collaboratively: Insights about tutoring effectiveness from vicarious learning. 2  Cognitive Science. 3  Craig, S. D., Driscoll, D., & Gholson, B. (2004). 4  Constructing knowledge from dialog in an intelligent tutoring system: Interactive learning, vicarious learning, and pedagogical agents.