Remember, the less you touch your screen the better. Lightly wipe the screen with a dry and clean microfiber cloth. Microfiber is a miracle of modern technology; put it to good use. No paper towels, no kitchen towels, no household rags; only microfiber should touch your screen. How to Safely Clean Your Screen. Now that we’ve made you terrified of Windex and rags (as, on behalf of your beautiful widescreen monitor, you should be), it’s time to get down to the business of properly cleaning your screens.
Wipe the monitor with a clean, soft piece of fabric. Microfiber cloth is ideal. This type of anti-static cloth doesn't leave a lint residue on the screen, and it's soft enough that it won't scratch the surface. Wipe off any visible dust, dirt and grime with the cloth. 1  Don't use towels, paper products or other scratchy cloth to wipe the screen. 1 Don't press hard on the screen or try to scrub it. 2  You might damage it and cause discoloration to occur next time you turn it on. 3  If your screen is very dirty, rinse or change the cloth in-between passes. 4  Clean gently and gradually.
Laptop manufacturers advise against using regular window cleaner on your screen, because the ammonia and other chemicals can ruin the screen&#039;s finish. Safely clean your laptop screen with an LCD screen cleaner or a homemade solution of alcohol and distilled water. Close the bottle and shake it to combine the ingredients. Turn off the laptop. It&#039;s easier to see the dust and smudges when the screen is dark. Spray a lint-free cloth with the homemade cleaning solution or LCD cleaner.
1 ONLY use clean soft microfiber cloths on your LCD TV or computer monitor screens – I have a package of microfiber clothes I keep around the house for other cleaning uses that you can buy here. 2  The microfiber clothes are washable, soft and safe to use on your screens. 1 DO NOT touch your LCD screen, because it will shorten the lifespan of your screen. 2  NEVER use a window or abrasive cleaner on your TV screen as it can cause the screen to yellow and also damage it. 3  If a spot does not come off, do NOT rub harder, because you can kill some of your pixels and ruin your screen.
1 To clean the edges of your LCD screen use a clean cotton ball or swab. 2  ALWAYS clean your screen powered off! ( 3 I know I said this above, but it is important enough to reiterate.). 4  ALWAYS spray directly onto your cleaning cloth and NEVER directly onto the LCD screen. 1 DO NOT touch your LCD screen, because it will shorten the lifespan of your screen. 2  NEVER use a window or abrasive cleaner on your TV screen as it can cause the screen to yellow and also damage it. 3  If a spot does not come off, do NOT rub harder, because you can kill some of your pixels and ruin your screen.
1 The microfiber clothes are washable, soft and safe to use on your screens. 2  To clean the edges of your LCD screen use a clean cotton ball or swab. 3  ALWAYS clean your screen powered off! ( 4 I know I said this above, but it is important enough to reiterate.). 1 DO NOT touch your LCD screen, because it will shorten the lifespan of your screen. 2  NEVER use a window or abrasive cleaner on your TV screen as it can cause the screen to yellow and also damage it. 3  If a spot does not come off, do NOT rub harder, because you can kill some of your pixels and ruin your screen.
1 If a spot does not come off, do NOT rub harder, because you can kill some of your pixels and ruin your screen. 2  NEVER spray any cleaning solution directly onto your screen! 3  You could damage the inside of the monitor or screen. 4  NEVER clean your screen with it powered on, because it can ruin your screen. 1 DO NOT touch your LCD screen, because it will shorten the lifespan of your screen. 2  NEVER use a window or abrasive cleaner on your TV screen as it can cause the screen to yellow and also damage it. 3  If a spot does not come off, do NOT rub harder, because you can kill some of your pixels and ruin your screen.
Remember not to use regular cloth, since this could scratch the screen. Do not soak the cloth; you just want to get it moist, which is the purpose of using the atomizer bottle to wet it. 1  A wet cloth can drip or run when cleaning the screen and the solution can weep behind the bezel and permanently damage your screen.
Instructions. Add 1 part isopropyl alcohol and 1 part distilled water to an empty spray bottle. Close the bottle and shake it to combine the ingredients. Turn off the laptop. It&#039;s easier to see the dust and smudges when the screen is dark. Spray a lint-free cloth with the homemade cleaning solution or LCD cleaner. Wipe the laptop screen thoroughly with the cloth to remove any dust or fingerprints. Clean in one direction to prevent streaks