Halal is the Arabic word for “lawful” or “permitted”. It is a broad term covering what is allowed in the context of Islamic law, but is often used in conjunction with the issue of how meat is dealt with. The opposite of halal is haram, meaning “forbidden”. 
The opposite of halal is haram (forbidden). Food can be forbidden in Islam if it includes: 1  blood. 2  alcohol. 3  meat or any products from a forbidden animal, including pigs and any carnivorous animals or birds of prey. 4  meat or any products of an animal which has not been slaughtered in the correct manner in the name of Allah.
Halal is an Arabic word, meaning lawful, and is the Islamic dietary law that identifies food permitted for Muslims. Non-halal is also referred to in Arabic as Haram (meaning not permissible). For meat and poultry to be Halal, it must be slaughtered according to Islamic guidelines, with prayers said to God (Allah) during the process. 
Halal is an Arabic word that means permissible.. In terms of food, it means food that is permissible according to Islamic law. For a meat to be certified halal, it cannot be a forbidden cut (such as meat from hindquarters) or animal (such as pork.). The slaughter of a halal animal is called zabihah and there are certain guidelines to follow: 1  Allah's (God's) name must be pronounced during slaughter. 2  The instrument must be very sharp to ensure humane slaughter. 3  The animal must be slit at the throat. 4  The animal must not be unconscious.
A food label is stamped halal if the contents of the food conform with Muslim dietary laws. This certification is analogous to a kosher certification, in that it is provided by a certified third party agency, but kosher food is not necessarily halal, and halal food is not always kosher. Halal means it's suitable for Muslims to consume. We Muslims are forbidden to eat things that are not halal or animals that have not been slaughter. e.g., shot in the head, been killed by hammer and not been prayed on-prayers).
Halal simply means permitted or lawful. So when we are talking about halal foods it means any foods that are allowed to be eaten according to Islamic Sharia law. This means that for any food to be considered halal it must comply with the religious ritual and observance of Sharia law. Food can be forbidden in Islam if it includes: 1  blood. 2  alcohol. 3  meat or any products from a forbidden animal, including pigs and any carnivorous animals or birds of prey. 4  meat or any products of an animal which has not been slaughtered in the correct manner in the name of Allah.
The opposite of halal is haram, meaning “forbidden,” and the opposite of kosher is treif, meaning “torn” and referring to the fact that flesh torn from an animal by wild beasts is not kosher. Kosher and halal rules both prohibit consuming pork or animal blood of any kind. Many strict halal butchers and restaurants call their food zabihah halal. The word refers to the process of halal slaughter and generally means that special care has been taken to ensure that all the slaughtering rules have been followed. Glatt kosher is the equivalent on the other side
A halal sign in Chinese (清真) at a restaurant in Taipei, Taiwan. Halal is often used in reference to foods and drinks, i.e. foods that are permissible for Muslims to eat or drink under Islamic Shariʻah (law). The criteria specifies both what foods are allowed, and how the food must be prepared. The food must come from a supplier that uses halal practices. Specifically, the slaughter must be performed by a Muslim, who must precede the slaughter by invoking the name of Allah, most commonly by saying  Bismillah  (In the name of God) and then three times  Allahu akbar  (God is the greatest).
Halal and Haram. HALAL: This is an Arabic term which means permissible or lawful in Islam. In reference to food, it is the Islamic dietary standard, as prescribed in the Shari’ah (Islamic Law). HARAM: This is another Arabic term which means impermissible or unlawful in Isl