Gellan gum is a water-soluble anionic polysaccharide produced by the bacterium Sphingomonas elodea (formerly Pseudomonas elodea). The gellan-producing bacterium was discovered and isolated by the former Kelco Division of Merck & Company, Inc. in 1978 from the lily plant tissue from a natural pond in Pennsylvania, USA. Gellan gum, also branded by few suppliers as GELRITE, Nanogel-TC ,Gelrich Grovgel, AppliedGel or Phytagel, is initially used as a gelling agent, alternative to agar, in microbiological culture. It is able to withstand 120°C heat.
• 0 Comments. Answer: Yes! Gellan gum is produced by culturing bacteria. It is frequently used as a gelling component in food products, mostly in gummy foods or products that may otherwise contain gelatin. Gellan gum is frequently confused with gelatin, as they are both used for similar purposes. But be assured, gellan gum is vegan
Gellan gum is a viscous soluble fiber, artificially produced by non-pathogenic bacteria Sphingomonas elodea from lactose (cheese whey) or glucose (corn starch) [1] . 
Loading ... Gellan Gum is a gelling agent developed specifically for applications where other gelling agents like agar agar and gelatin are not ideal. There are two types of Gellan Gum: gels made with Low-Acyl Gellan Gum tend to be brittle and firm, while gels made with High-Acyl Gellan Gum are flexible and elastic. The two types also vary slightly in other ways, and there is some additional variability in technical characteristics across various brands
Gellan Gum is used as an additive for a number of purposes. For instance, it is used in different food items. Apart from that, its usage in the chemical industry cannot be ignored as well. In case of food products, it is used to improve the energy levels in the human body and the flexibility level of the muscles. 
In pharmaceuticals, for example, gellan gum is used to make tablets that are easy to swallow, as well as to adjust the rate of release of their medicinal compounds in the body. It is also used in biotechnology, as replacement for agar-agar, as a growth environment of bacteria. Gellan gum is used mainly in the food industry as an anti-settling agent, thickener, stabilizer or to structure prepared foods. Used in very small doses, it acts as an anti-settling agent in liquids, while adding only a very light viscosity.
Gellan gum poses laxative effect if ingested in large amount due to fermentation by the intestinal microflora. Other than that, gellan gum is safe for using in food. Research on human consuming large amount(175-200mg/kg bw) of gellan gum for over 3 weeks indicates no side effects. Gellan Gum, CAS# 71010-52-1, is a polysaccharide manufactured through chemical synthesis, available as Off-white powder. Gellan Gum is widely used as thickeners. It is widely accepted as safe food additive in many countries with E number E418.
« Back to additives. A gelling agent produced through fermentation of an algae, gellan gum is used in molecular gastronomy to make all sorts of firm-jellied pieces with distinctive shapes. Gellan gum is used mainly in the food industry as an anti-settling agent, thickener, stabilizer or to structure prepared foods. Used in very small doses, it acts as an anti-settling agent in liquids, while adding only a very light viscosity.