Nomenclature [edit]. Calcitriol usually refers specifically to 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol, but may also sometimes include 24,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol (when specified), the deactivated form of vitamin D. Because cholecalciferol already has one hydroxyl group, only two are further specified in the nomenclature. Many of the effects of calcitriol are mediated by its interaction with the calcitriol receptor, also called the vitamin D receptor or VDR. For instance, the unbound inactive form of the calcitriol receptor in intestinal epithelial cells resides in the cytoplasm.
1 Enhancing absorption of calcium from the small intestine: Facilitating calcium absorption from the small intestine would clearly serve to elevate blood levels of calcium. 2  Parathyroid hormone stimulates this process, but indirectly by stimulating production of the active form of vitamin D in the kidney. Low levels of the hormone are secreted even when blood calcium levels are high. The figure to the right depicts parathyroid hormone release from cells cultured in vitro in differing concentration
Calcitriol (INN), also called 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol or 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3, is the hormonally active metabolite of vitamin D with three hydroxyl groups (abbreviated 1,25-(OH)2D3 or simply 1,25(OH)2D), It was first identified by Michael F. Holick in work published in 1971. Many of the effects of calcitriol are mediated by its interaction with the calcitriol receptor, also called the vitamin D receptor or VDR. For instance, the unbound inactive form of the calcitriol receptor in intestinal epithelial cells resides in the cytoplasm.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The skin produces vitamin D when exposed to sunlight. Vitamin D levels are monitored by the thyroid gland, which produces a hormone when levels are low, causing the skin to produce vit. D. 
1 precursors (vitamin D) ingested in the diet. 2  calciferol is converted in the liver into 25[OH] vitamin D 3. 3  this is carried to the kidneys (bound to a serum globulin) where it is converted into calcitriol. 4  This final step is promoted by the parathyroid hormone (PTH). Calcitriol. 1  calciferol (vitamin D 3) which is synthesized in skin exposed to the ultraviolet rays of the sun. 2  precursors (vitamin D) ingested in the diet. 3  calciferol is converted in the liver into 25[OH] vitamin D 3. 4
Many practitioners become confused when ordering a vitamin D test. Because 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D is the active form of vitamin D, many practitioners think that measuring 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D is an accurate means to estimate vitamin D stores and test for vitamin D deficiency, which is incorrect. Serum levels of 1,25-dihyroxyvitamin D have little or no relationship to vitamin D stores but rather are regulated primarily by parathyroid hormone levels, which in turn are regulated by calcium and/or vitamin D. In vitamin D deficiency, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D levels go up, not down.
1 Parathyroid hormone stimulates this process, but indirectly by stimulating production of the active form of vitamin D in the kidney. 2  Vitamin D induces synthesis of a calcium-binding protein in intestinal epithelial cells that facilitates efficient absorption of calcium into blood. Low levels of the hormone are secreted even when blood calcium levels are high. The figure to the right depicts parathyroid hormone release from cells cultured in vitro in differing concentrations of calcium.
This involves vitamin D, calcium and a hormone called parathyroid hormone. The parathyroid glands are endocrine glands located in your neck near your thyroid glands (but no functional relation to). Their job is to secrete parathyroid hormone (PTH). PTH regulates serum calcium and phosphate, which in return regulate PTH. Your kidney produces vitamin D’s active form, which is called 1,25(OH)₂D.
Vitamin D, an essential nutrient, plays a role in the production or biological activity of select hormones, and might therefore play a role in some types of hormone imbalances. Vitamin D in your body interacts with, and has an effect on the secretion of, hormones from your parathyroid glands. A vitamin D deficiency can lead to the abnormal release of parathyroid hormone: since, in the absence of vitamin D, your body does not respond to parathyroid hormone, your hormone gland begins to produce very large amounts of the hormone to compensate.