You won't believe these 10 facts about people. The Facebook poke is a feature on the Facebook homepage, and it has a number of potential meanings. An option located on the right side of the page allows people to “poke” someone else with the click of a mouse or tap of a touch screen. 
MY face book... www.facebook.com/gradualreport. I tell you the story of how facebook Mark Zuckerberg came up with the poke. Ever wonder where the face book poke came from. well 200 of you lemon drops hit up the comment in the last video so i tought i would do you a solid and investigate it. 
You can see your pokes activity on your pokes page. It will begin showing you how many times you've poked back and forth with a friend after you've poked them more than once. If you're having trouble finding your pokes page, try searching for https://facebook.com/pokes in your browser. 
The recipient must also have the poke app on their phone, and these pokes cannot be viewed or sent from a desktop. To poke someone via the poke app: 1  Download the app onto your phone. 2  Log into your Facebook account in the app. 3  Confirm that you want to use the app under that name. 4  Select Poke a friend with a message, video or chat.. 5  Type in the name of your friend or select a name from your list of contacts. 
What is a poke? People poke their friends or friends of friends on Facebook for a lot of reasons (ex: just saying hello, getting their attention). When you poke someone, they'll receive a notification. To poke someone: 1  Go to your friend's profile. 2  Click on their cover photo. 3  Select Poke.
What is a poke? People poke their friends or friends of friends on Facebook for a lot of reasons (ex: just saying hello, getting their attention). When you poke someone, they'll receive a notification. To poke someone: 1  Go to your friend's profile. 2  Click on their cover photo. 3  Select Poke.
up vote 11 down vote accepted. When we created the poke, we thought it would be cool to have a feature without any specific purpose. People interpret the poke in many different ways, and we encourage you to come up with your own meanings. It's main use is just to get attention-a reminder that you know them on Facebook. Mark Zuckerberg once said during a Facebook webinar: When we created the poke, we thought it would be cool to have a feature without any specific purpose.
Story highlights. 1  Facebook has released a new, free app for iOS called Facebook Poke. 2  It lets users discreetly send messages, photos and videos that are deleted in a few seconds. 3  The Poke app is inspired by the Snapchat app, which is often used to send sexual images. 