The boundary between contagious and non-contagious infectious diseases is not perfectly drawn, as illustrated classically by tuberculosis, which is clearly transmissible from person to person, but was not classically considered a contagious disease. The non-contagious category of infections usually require a special mode of transmission between persons or hosts. These include need for intermediate vector species (mosquitoes that cause malaria) or by non-casual transfer of bodily fluid (such as transfusions, needle sharing or sexual contact).
Infection is the invasion of an organism's body tissues by disease-causing agents, their multiplication, and the reaction of host tissues to these organisms and the toxins they produce. Infectious disease, also known as transmissible disease or communicable disease, is illness resulting from an infection. The symptoms of an infection depend on the type of disease. Some signs of infection affect the whole body generally, such as fatigue, loss of appetite, weight loss, fevers, night sweats, chills, aches and pains. Others are specific to individual body parts, such as skin rashes, coughing, or a runny nose.
Prion Disease and Infection Control. Prion disease is not contagious; there is no evidence to suggest it can be spread from person to person by close contact. Once a person has developed prion disease, central nervous system tissues (brain, spinal cord and eye tissue) are thought to be extremely infectious. Prion diseases, also known as transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSE's) are a group of progressive neurodegenerative conditions. These illnesses exist in both animals and humans. Scrapie, a disease affecting sheep and goats, was the first prion disease to be identified in the 1730s.
Hepatitis C is usually spread through direct contact with the blood of a person who has the disease. It is caused by the virus HCV (hepatitis C Virus). The liver can swell and become damaged. 1 A person can only become infected with hepatitis D if they are already infected with hepatitis B. 2  Person can become infected with the hepatitis E virus (HEV) by drinking contaminated water. 3  Hepatitis that cannot be attributed to one of the viral forms of the disease is called hepatitis X.
1 Hepatitis B is a sexually transmitted disease. 2  Hepatitis C is commonly spread via direct contact with the blood of a person who has the disease. 3  A person can only become infected with hepatitis D if they are already infected with hepatitis B. 1 A person can only become infected with hepatitis D if they are already infected with hepatitis B. 2  Person can become infected with the hepatitis E virus (HEV) by drinking contaminated water. 3  Hepatitis that cannot be attributed to one of the viral forms of the disease is called hepatitis X.
Measles. Read more. Measles is a highly contagious respiratory disease caused by a virus. The virus lives in mucus in the nose and throat of an infected person. The disease can spread through the air by breathing, coughing, or sneezing. 
1 Hepatitis C is commonly spread via direct contact with the blood of a person who has the disease. 2  A person can only become infected with hepatitis D if they are already infected with hepatitis B. 3  Person can become infected with the hepatitis E virus (HEV) by drinking contaminated water. 1 A person can only become infected with hepatitis D if they are already infected with hepatitis B. 2  Person can become infected with the hepatitis E virus (HEV) by drinking contaminated water. 3  Hepatitis that cannot be attributed to one of the viral forms of the disease is called hepatitis X.
Transmission-Based Precautions. There are three types of transmission-based precautions: contact precautions (for diseases spread by direct or indirect contact), droplet precautions (for diseases spread by large particles in the air), and airborne precautions (for diseases spread by small particles in the air). 
A person can not get shingles from a person that has it. However, the virus that causes chickenpox and shingles can be spread from a person with active shingles to a person who has never had chickenpox or been vaccinated through direct contact with the rash. The person exposed would develop chickenpox, not shingles. The virus is not spread through sneezing, coughing or casual contact. A person with shingles can spread the disease when the rash is in the blister-phase. Once the rash has developed crusts, the person is no longer contagious. Shingles, also called herpes zoster or zoster, is a painful skin rash caused by the varicella-zoster virus, the same virus that causes chickenpox. After a person recovers from chickenpox, the virus remains inactive in the body.
Cancer is NOT contagious. A healthy person cannot “catch” cancer from someone who has it. There is no evidence that close contact or things like sex, kissing, touching, sharing meals, or breathing the same air can spread cancer from one person to another.