You can still find veemon if you leave the forest, just talk to the waitress at ... You can still find veemon if you leave the forest, just talk to the waitress at lamb chop. and he resets.
Answers. fatmonkey918 answered: when you first approach kicking forest you'll have a scene with veemon, after the scene just simply enter the forest to start the test. Once inside head toward the south batch of trees closest to the entrance and spam [x] or you action button, until he appears. Good luck with digimon 3.
The first time he can be found in Wind Prairie's exit to Kicking Forest. He will give you a sidequest for the tree kicking boots. To find him there you'll have to speak to the little boy kicking the trees in Plug Cape first.
Permanent Digimon. There are eight partner Digimon you can get. They are Agumon, Patamon, Veemon, Guilmon, Renamon, Kumamon, Kotemon, and Monmon. After the first three you get, you will need to find the Ultimate level Digimon for the rookie that you want.
You will end up in the forest. Hint: Gabumon card: To find the Gabumon card, look in the boxes in the Inn in Asuka City that are being cleaned. Hint: Blue card: Defeat the Sieryu leader and go to East Station in Kicking Forest. Go to the machine and it will say that Guilmon possesses a Blue card.
Information in this section was contributed by chaoswargreymon777. First, learn how to get new partner Digimon. Then, you should have a strong Veemon, a strong Kumamon or Agumon, and finally a strong Guilmon. Information in this section was contributed by Rockysdad32.
Go to west of central park and you'll meet him, he want a gabumon card first, then go to the inn and search near the girl for the card, give it to the kid, he'll tell you about veemon, them you have to go to the lamb shop and talk with the first guy in there, he'll tell you abour veemon.
After talking to Veemon at wind prairie, after you enter the kicking forest, Veemon will be to your left. You won't be able to see him because a tree is in the way, but you don't have to walk down that far at all, he's pratically at the entrance.