DNA-The Molecule of Life. Deoxyribonucleic acid or DNA is the hereditary material present in the cells of all humans and other living organisms. DNA is a nucleic acid generally regarded as a blueprint, a recipe or a code of an organism. The blueprint contains instructions which enable development of cells in to body. In 1953, when they created the model of DNA double helix, it was regarded as an enormous achievement in fields of molecular genetics and biochemistry. For their work Crick, Watson, and Wilkins were awarded the Nobel Prize in 1962.
Sir Alec Jeffreys was the scientist who invented DNA fingerprinting and it has revolutionised forensic science and society. It is a powerful technology that's helped to solve thousands of crimes as well as resolving paternity and immigration disputes. slide 1 of 3. DNA Fingerprinting History. It's the late 1970s and early 1980s and we're in the laboratory of Alec Jeffreys, the man who invented DNA fingerprinting. It's a small lab in the University of Leicester in the UK. He's putting in many hours studying human inherited variation, which starts from differences in the genes
The man who discovered DNA did not know that it was the hereditary material and he also did not call it DNA. He referred to it as 'nuclein' because it had come from the nucleus. He expected it to be present in organs such as the liver and kidney, and he also believed it to be an acid. Miescher discovered DNA in 1869 whilst studying pus-ridden bandages that were being sent to the laboratory by the local clinic. At this time the lab was working on the chemistry of body fluids, particularly blood. To that end the young physician was studying lymphocytes, though these were hard to obtain.
slide 1 of 4. The man who discovered DNA, Frederick Miescher, was a young physician who worked in the laboratory of physiological chemistry of eminent scientist Felix Hoppe-Seyler. At the time of the discovery he was 25 years old and had not long graduated from his studies. The man who discovered DNA did not know that it was the hereditary material and he also did not call it DNA. He referred to it as 'nuclein' because it had come from the nucleus. He expected it to be present in organs such as the liver and kidney, and he also believed it to be an acid.
DNA (Or DeoxyriboNucleic acid) was never invented; it has existed on earth for as long as life has been present, though people did find out about it eventually. The shape of … DNA was discovered in 1953 by Francis Crick and James Watson. DNA was discovered to be the genetic material in the 1944 by Avery and coworkers. 
It was Crick and Watson who worked out the structure of DNA in the 1950's, but its discovery was made nearly 100 years previously by a Swiss physician called Frederick Miescher. Miescher discovered DNA in 1869 whilst studying pus-ridden bandages that were being sent to the laboratory by the local clinic. At this time the lab was working on the chemistry of body fluids, particularly blood. To that end the young physician was studying lymphocytes, though these were hard to obtain.
The man who discovered DNA, Frederick Miescher, was a young physician who worked in the laboratory of physiological chemistry of eminent scientist Felix Hoppe-Seyler. At the time of the discovery he was in his 25th year and had not long graduated from his studies. Miescher discovered DNA in 1869 whilst studying pus-ridden bandages that were being sent to the laboratory by the local clinic. At this time the lab was working on the chemistry of body fluids, particularly blood. To that end the young physician was studying lymphocytes, though these were hard to obtain.
First isolated by Friedrich Miescher in 1869 and with its molecular structure first identified by James Watson and Francis Crick in 1953, DNA is used by researchers as a molecular tool to explore physical laws and theories, such as the ergodic theorem and the theory of elasticity. Deoxyribonucleic acid (/diˌɒksiˌraɪbɵ.njuːˌkleɪ.ɨk ˈaesɪd/ ; ˈæSɪD) dna is a molecule that carries most of the genetic instructions used in the, development functioning and reproduction of all known living organisms and many. viruses