Things can turn ugly when a marriage is breaking apart. It’s not unusual for a husband or wife to destroy, gamble or give away marital property to keep their spouse from getting it in the divorce. In legal terms, this is known as the “dissipation of assets” or wasting marital assets. It can be a husband buying lavish gifts for his mistress or a wife maxing out her credit cards on a spending spree. It involves a spouse wasting property that would otherwise be distributed in the couple’s divorce. The wasting or dissipation of assets involves the frivolous and unjustified spending of assets by a spouse. There must be more than just the mismanagement of property or spending in a way that’s disapproved of by the other spouse. Instead, there must be evidence of intentional misconduct.
Waste is an unreasonable or improper use of land by an individual in rightful possession of the land. A party with an interest in a parcel of land may file a civil action based on waste committed by an individual who also has an interest in the land. Waste, D 2. 10. Waste is frequently committed on cultivated fields, orchards, gardens, meadows, and the like. It is proper here to remark that there is an implied covenant or agreement on the part of the lessee to use a farm in a husbandman-like manner, and not to exhaust the soil by neglectful or improper tillage.
3. dissipation-useless or profitless activity; using or expending or consuming thoughtlessly or carelessly; if the effort brings no compensating gain it is a waste; mindless dissipation of natural resources. waste, wastefulness. dissipation. n. 1. the act of dissipating or condition of being dissipated. 2. unrestrained indulgence in physical pleasures, esp alcohol.
3. a wasting by misuse: the dissipation of a fortune. 4. amusement; diversion. 5. dissolute way of living, esp. excessive drinking of liquor; intemperance. 6. a process in which energy is used or lost without accomplishing useful work, as friction causing loss of mechanical energy. dissipation. n. 1. the act of dissipating or condition of being dissipated. 2. unrestrained indulgence in physical pleasures, esp alcohol.
“Wasteful dissipation” is a term commonly used to describe a spouse’s unnecessary or unjustified use of marital money to justify a disproportionate equitable distribution. What makes wasteful dissipation problematic from a lawyer’s point of view is that its definition is vague and imprecise. It noted that a parent has no legal obligation to provide for or contribute to the support of a child over the age of 21 Therefore, the court erred. One issue that tends to come up in divorce case is wasteful dissipation. While I mentioned it in the past, this post will address it in greater detail.
Wasteful dissipation is one of the statutory factors that must be considered by a trial court upon rendering a determination of the equitable distribution of marital assets as set forth in Domestic Relations Law §236(B)(5)(d): It noted that a parent has no legal obligation to provide for or contribute to the support of a child over the age of 21 Therefore, the court erred. One issue that tends to come up in divorce case is wasteful dissipation. While I mentioned it in the past, this post will address it in greater detail.
Full Definition of WASTE. 1. a: a sparsely settled or barren region: desert b: uncultivated land c: a broad and empty expanse (as of water). 2. : the act or an instance of wasting: the state of being wasted. 3. a: loss through breaking down of bodily tissue b: gradual loss or decrease by use, wear, or decay. 4. 1 waste. noun \ˈwāst\. Tweet. : loss of something valuable that occurs because too much of it is being used or because it is being used in a way that is not necessary or effective.
Cordell & Cordell Divorce Lawyer. Dissipation is defined by the Black’s Law Dictionary as: “The use of an asset for an illegal or inequitable purpose, such as a spouse’s use of community property for personal benefit when a divorce is imminent.”. 