In raster datasets, each cell (which is also known as a pixel) has a value. The cell values represent the phenomenon portrayed by the raster dataset such as a category, magnitude, height, or spectral value. The category could be a land-use class such as grassland, forest, or road. Sometimes you don't have the choice of storing your data as a raster; for example, imagery is only available as a raster. However, there are many other features (such as points) and measurements (such as rainfall) that could be stored as a feature (vector) data type (or both).
Raster images are made of pixels. A pixel is a single point or the smallest single element in a display device. Vector images are mathematical calculations from one point to another that form geometrical shapes. How to determine what size your raster image must be, for good quality printing: Multiply the resolution required by the area to be printed. Examples: If a printer requires a minimum of 300 ppi and you want to print an image in an area that is 5 inches wide, multiply 300 pixels x 5 inches (300 x 5 = 1500).
PC Help Center. Answer: The difference between vector and raster graphics is that raster graphics are composed of pixels, while vector graphics are composed of paths. A raster graphic, such as a gif or jpeg, is an array of pixels of various colors, which together form an image. 
In its simplest form, a raster consists of a matrix of cells (or pixels) organized into rows and columns (or a grid) where each cell contains a value representing information, such as temperature. Rasters are digital aerial photographs, imagery from satellites, digital pictures, or even scanned maps. Sometimes you don't have the choice of storing your data as a raster; for example, imagery is only available as a raster. However, there are many other features (such as points) and measurements (such as rainfall) that could be stored as a feature (vector) data type (or both).
General characteristics of raster data. In raster datasets, each cell (which is also known as a pixel) has a value. The cell values represent the phenomenon portrayed by the raster dataset such as a category, magnitude, height, or spectral value. Data stored in a raster format represents real-world phenomena: 1  Thematic data (also known as discrete) represents features such as land-use or soils data. 2  Continuous data represents phenomena such as temperature, elevation, or spectral data such as satellite images and aerial photographs.
PPI-Pixels per Inch Digital raster images are measured in pixels, or picture elements. How many pixels per inch is determined by the device you create the digital image with: camera, scanner, or graphics software and can be modified with a photo editing software like Photoshop. How to determine what size your raster image must be, for good quality printing: Multiply the resolution required by the area to be printed. Examples: If a printer requires a minimum of 300 ppi and you want to print an image in an area that is 5 inches wide, multiply 300 pixels x 5 inches (300 x 5 = 1500).
In digital imaging, a pixel, pel, or picture element is a physical point in a raster image, or the smallest addressable element in an all points addressable display device; so it is the smallest controllable element of a picture represented on the screen. The address of a pixel corresponds to its physical coordinates. The pixels, or color samples, that form a digitized image (such as a JPEG file used on a web page) may or may not be in one-to-one correspondence with screen pixels, depending on how a computer displays an image. In computing, an image composed of pixels is known as a bitmapped image or a raster image.
Bitmap (or raster) images are stored as a series of tiny dots called pixels. Each pixel is actually a very small square that is assigned a color, and then arranged in a pattern to form the image. When you zoom in on a bitmap image you can see the individual pixels that make up that image. 
A raster is technically characterized by the width and height of the image in pixels and by the number of bits per pixel (a color depth, which determines the number of colors it can represent). The printing and prepress industries know raster graphics as contones (from continuous tones ). It originates from the raster scan of cathode ray tube (CRT) video monitors, which paint the image line by line by magnetically steering a focused electron beam. By association, it came also to refer to a rectangular grid of pixels. The word rastrum is now used to refer to a device for drawing musical staff lines.
In computer graphics, a raster graphics image is a dot matrix data structure representing a generally rectangular grid of pixels, or points of color, viewable via a monitor, paper, or other display medium. Raster images are stored in image files with varying formats. It originates from the raster scan of cathode ray tube (CRT) video monitors, which paint the image line by line by magnetically steering a focused electron beam. By association, it came also to refer to a rectangular grid of pixels. The word rastrum is now used to refer to a device for drawing musical staff lines.