Money transfer companies like Western Union and MoneyGram allow for money to be sent quickly to anyone who can access a money transfer location or has a bank account. In Egypt, these companies provide the means to send money abroad and within the country. If you're sending money to the United States or many other countries, there may be restrictions on sending amounts larger than $10,000 or its equivalent in another currency. Find the location of a money transfer service. MoneyGram partnered with Sphinx Trading Company which allows customers to send money. A visit to the company website (see Resources) will help you find the location nearest to you
The receive locations closest to you are displayed on the right. You can enter a new address or city and country. A new list of locations will be provided. View locations to send money. 
You do not have to be an AAIB customer in order to use its Western Union services; if you opt to send a wire transfer from your bank instead of using MoneyGram or Western Union, simply visit your bank to complete the transaction. Fill out the necessary forms at a money transfer office. At MoneyGram, complete the Send Form and include a 10-word message for the recipient. The message is necessary to ensure that only the person you are sending the money to will be able to collect it. At Western Union, complete the appropriate send form. If you're sending money to the United States or many other countries, there may be restrictions on sending amounts larger than $10,000 or its equivalent in another currency. Find the location of a money transfer service. MoneyGram partnered with Sphinx Trading Company which allows customers to send money. A visit to the company website (see Resources) will help you find the location nearest to you
RE: Cheapest way to send money to Egypt? What is the cheapest way to transfer money to Egypt? My Dad wants me to buy contacts while I'm here in Egypt and wants to transfer the money for them from the USA insha'Allah. I did this last year as well with Western Union and it was kind of expensive according to my Dad. Is there a cheaper...
The Western Union® money transfer service allows you to send money in minutes, the next day, or in three to five business days. Send money online, by phone, or from a nearby agent location. You can’t send and receive money at all locations, so choose “Hours & Info” for a listing of available services. Visit a Western Union® agent location near Cairo, Egypt to send or receive money, purchase a money order, or pay bills. Western Union is a quick and reliable way to send and receive money, send bill payments, purchase money orders, or sign up for a prepaid card. 1  Search By: 2  Address. 3  Agent Name.
3. Select the account from which you want to transfer money. 4. Fill beneficiary and transfer amount details and purpose of transfer. 5. Confirm your transfer. You can also set up transfers to beneficiary accounts for future / recurring payments by saving this transfer instruction as a template for future use. 1 Make your payment or transfer in the currency of the beneficiary account and benefit from our exchange rate. 2  If you choose to send your payment in EGP, the exact converted amount will be subject to the exchange rate applicable by the recipient’s bank.
Send a Western Union® Money Transfer directly to your receiver’s bank account. Send money online or from a nearby agent location. See the list of countries supported and specific information needed from your receiver. Visit a Western Union® agent location near Cairo, Egypt to send or receive money, purchase a money order, or pay bills. Western Union is a quick and reliable way to send and receive money, send bill payments, purchase money orders, or sign up for a prepaid card. 1  Search By: 2  Address. 3  Agent Name.
It's easy. Send money online or on-the-go in a few simple steps. You choose how you want to pay-whether it's with your bank account, debit card, or credit card.2 You also can send money directly to your receiver's bank account. Your family and friends can pick up the money in minutes1 at 500,000 Western Union® agent locations around the world. It's convenient. Whether you're online or on-the-go, we make it convenient for you to send money. Use our 4-star rated mobile app on your Android,® iPhone,® or iPad® to send money today.
Wire transfer services. MoneyGram and Western Union both operate in Egypt. These wire services make it convenient, safe and relatively cheap to send money person-to-person to almost any country overseas, provided you can trust the person who will be receiving the funds outside of Egypt. In order to send a MoneyGram or Western Union transfer, you will need to make sure your transfer funds are in US dollars. Take your passport and the cash to the wire service’s office, and a clerk will provide you with the proper paperwork.