$45.00 - PhosBan Reactor 150. The PhosBan Reactor 150 is designed with the up-flow principle to achieve the most efficient use of GFO and CARBON filter media. By pushing water from the bottom upward through a dispersion plate, it forces an even distribution of water through the media, and prevents channeling. The PhosBan Reactor 550 is designed with the up-flow principle to achieve the most efficient use of GFO or CARBON filter media.
GFO is an essential tool and should be part of regular tank maintenance until you can find the source or sources of your phosphate and silicate problem. GFO-Granular Ferric Oxide Media only treats the symptoms not the source of the problem. Note: Use caution when using GFO-Granular Ferric Oxide Media, it can and will lower you alkalinity values, monitor and adjust you alkalinity as needed. Corals do not like alkalinity fluctuations, especially stony corals.
I've been looking at GFO reactors and was wondering if any has any experience with any of them. BRS GFO & Carbon Reactor. what I like about these is that even with a single reactor, both GFO and carbon can be run. would need to buy a pump. 2 little fishies Phosban reactor 150. i just bought the BRS dual reactor so i could run carbon and gfo. since the carbon will exhaust faster than the gfo, i can change them separately. and, by segregating the two materials, you keep one from grinding down the other. So it sounds like one of the other 2 reactors would better suit me.
DIY-Do It Yourself GFO PVC Media Reactor. Scroll down to see DIY-Do It Yourself PVC GFO-Granular Ferric Oxide Phosphate Remover Media Reactor Parts List And Directions. If you do not want to make this DIY GFO media reactor scroll down and see a media reactor using a R/O-Reverse Osmosis water filter unit. GFO-Granular Ferric Oxide Media should have a simular color and look of coffee grounds. GFO-Granular Ferric Oxide Media only treats the symptoms not the source of the problem. Note: Use caution when using GFO-Granular Ferric Oxide Media, it can and will lower you alkalinity values, monitor and adjust you alkalinity as needed. Corals do not like alkalinity fluctuations, especially stony corals.
http://www.bulkreefsupply.com/reactor... Designed to be easy to use, setup and maintain the BRS fluidized reactor is perfect for utilizing GFO or Carbon in the aquarium. Our reactors are not only easy to use, but they do away with annoying thumbs screws and the leaky lids common with other reactors. 
U se of Granular Ferric Oxide (GFO, or iron oxide hydroxide) is a popular and effective means to reduce reactive phosphate (a non-metal) concentrations in aquaria hence reducing the potential for algal growths. Silicate (a metalloid) is also efficiently removed. 
Guys, I need some help to find a better tumbling gfo reactor. I have used one by 2 little fish, BRS one, and one by reef octopus. They are the same tumbling on one side. Let me know which reactor you are using and are very happy with it. I am looking to find one tumbling evenly. 
$64.00 - PhosBan-Reactor 550 -. The PhosBan Reactor 550 is designed with the up-flow principle to achieve the most efficient use of GFO or CARBON filter media. By pushing water from the bottom upward through a dispersion plate, it forces an even distribution of water through the media, and prevents channeling
Best Answer: GFO is an acronym for Granulated Ferric Oxide-essentially its purpose in a reef aquarium is to bind phosphates and remove them from the water column. 