Maybe I didn't treat you. Quite as good as I should have. Maybe I didn't love you. Quite as often as I could have. 
Elvis Presley recorded his version of Always on My Mind on March 29, 1972, a few weeks after his February separation from wife Priscilla. The song received immense fame and critical appreciation and is considered one of the standout songs of the '70s for Elvis. While Brenda Lee's version had stalled at #45 on the country charts in 1972, other performers would reach the top 20 in the United States and elsewhere with their own versions: Elvis Presley in 1972; John Wesley Ryles in 1979; Willie Nelson 's Grammy Award winning version in 1982; Pet Shop Boys in 1987.
Maybe I didn't treat you. Quite as good as I should have. Maybe I didn't love you. Quite as often as I could have. Little things I should have said and done. I just never took the time. You were always on my mind. You were always on my mind. 
Allmusic lists over 300 recorded releases of the song in versions by dozens of performers. At the 25th Grammy Awards held in 1983, the songwriters won Grammy Awards for Song of the Year and Best Country Song; in addition, Willie Nelson's recording won for Best Male Country Vocal Performance. 
elvis Always On My Mind. Follow elvis Always On My Mind to get e-mail alerts and updates on your eBay Feed. Unfollow elvis Always On My Mind to stop getting updates on your eBay Feed. Yay! You're now following elvis Always On My Mind in your eBay Fee
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. For other uses, see Always on My Mind (disambiguation) .  Always on My Mind  is an American country music song by Johnny Christopher, Mark James and Wayne Carson, recorded first by Gwen McCrae (as You Were Always On My Mind) and Brenda Lee in 1972. While Brenda Lee's version had stalled at #45 on the country charts in 1972, other performers would reach the top 20 in the United States and elsewhere with their own versions: Elvis Presley in 1972; John Wesley Ryles in 1979; Willie Nelson 's Grammy Award winning version in 1982; Pet Shop Boys in 1987.
A common and popular mistake is to state that Elvis recording of Always On My Mind was a cover of an original Brenda Lee country hit. In fact, Always On My Mind was written for Elvis Presley by Mark James (Suspicious Minds) and it was recorded by Elvis in March 1972, before anyone else. 
Related: elvis presley jailhouse rock elvis presley always on my mind rca elvis presley always on my mind cd. Follow elvis presley always on my mind to get e-mail alerts and updates on your eBay Feed. Unfollow elvis presley always on my mind to stop getting updates on your eBay Feed. Yay! You're now following elvis presley always on my mind in your eBay Feed.