The occurrence in a community or region of cases of an illness, specific health-related behavior, or other health-related events clearly in excess of normal expectancy; the word is also used to describe outbreaks of disease in animals or plants. Compare: endemic, sporadic. [epi- + G. dēmos, the people]. propagated epidemic, propagative epidemic, propagating epidemic. outbreaks in which the disease propagates in one or more initial cases and then spreads to others, a relatively slow method of spread. epidemic tremor. see avian encephalomyelitis
1. epidemic - (especially of medicine) of disease or anything resembling a disease; attacking or affecting many individuals in a community or a population simultaneously; an epidemic outbreak of influenza. medical specialty, medicine-the branches of medical science that deal with nonsurgical techniques. 
A few cases of a very rare disease may be classified as an epidemic, while many cases of a common disease (such as the common cold) would not. The conditions which govern the outbreak of epidemics include infected food supplies such as contaminated drinking water and the migration of populations of certain animals, such as rats or mosquitoes, which can act as disease vectors.
Familiarity information: EPIDEMIC used as a noun is very rare. • EPIDEMIC (adjective). The adjective EPIDEMIC has 1 sense: 1. (especially of medicine) of disease or anything resembling a disease; attacking or affecting many individuals in a community or a population simultaneously. Familiarity information: EPIDEMIC used as an adjective is very rare. Dictionary entry details
Pandemic: An epidemic (a sudden outbreak) that becomes very widespread and affects a whole region, a continent, or the world due to a susceptible population. By definition, a true pandemic causes a high degree of mortality (death). By contrast 1  : An epidemic affects more than the expected number of cases of disease occurring in a community or region during a given period of time. 2  A sudden severe outbreak within a region or a group as, for example, AIDS in Africa or AIDS in intravenous drug users.
Epidemic. In epidemiology, an epidemic occurs when new cases of a certain disease, in a given human population, and during a given period, substantially exceed what is expected based on recent experience. An occurrence of a disease or disorder in a population at a frequency higher than that expected in a given time period. epidemic (Adjective). Like or having to do with an epidemic; widespread. Epidemic hysteria occurred upon the incumbentu2019s reelection.
For other uses, see Epidemic (disambiguation) . An epidemic (from Greek ἐπί epi upon or above and δῆμος demos people) is the rapid spread of infectious disease to a large number of people in a given population within a short period of time, usually two weeks or less. The conditions which govern the outbreak of epidemics include infected food supplies such as contaminated drinking water and the migration of populations of certain animals, such as rats or mosquitoes, which can act as disease vectors.
Epidemic: The occurrence of more cases of a disease than would be expected in a community or region during a given time period. A sudden severe outbreak of a disease such as SARS. From the Greek epi-, upon + demos, people or population = epidemos = upon the population.. See also: Endemic; Pandemic. 
epidemic (Noun). A widespread disease that affects many individuals in a population. epidemic (Noun). An occurrence of a disease or disorder in a population at a frequency higher than that expected in a given time period. epidemic (Adjective). Like or having to do with an epidemic; widespread. Epidemic hysteria occurred upon the incumbentu2019s reelection.