Make Google your default search engine. Google Search is installed but not set as your default search provider. To default to Google, here’s how you do it: 1  Click the Tools icon at the far right of the browser window. 2  Select Internet options. 3  In the General tab, find the Search section and click Settings. 4  Select Google. 5  Click Set as default and click Close. 
Choose your homepage. You can control what page appears when you click in the top left of your screen the Home button. 1  Open Chrome. 2  In the top-right corner, click the Chrome menu. 3  Select Settings. 4  Under Appearance, check the box Show Home button. 5  Below Show Home button, click Change to choose your homepage. 
Then, while on that page, click on the Tools menu, Internet Options item, and then click on the General tab. “. First, navigate to the page that you want to use as your home page. You can see the Google page in the background, and that the current Homepage in Internet Options is set to the MSN preview page. First Navigate to the page you want as your new home page. Then click on the Tools menu, Options item, and the Main tab: Once again you can see the Google page in the background, and that the current Home Page in the Options dialog
Make Google your default search engine. Search right from the address bar, wherever you go on the web. Google Search is installed but not set as your default search provider. To default to Google, here’s how you do it: 1  Click the Tools icon at the far right of the browser window. 2  Select Internet options. 3  In the General tab, find the Search section and click Settings. 4  Select Googl
1 Click the Tools icon at the far right of the browser window. 2  Select Internet options. 3  In the General tab, find the Search section and click Settings. 4  Select Google. 5  Click Set as default and click Close. Search right from the address bar, wherever you go on the web. Google Search is installed but not set as your default search provider. To default to Google, here’s how you do it: 1 
If you have Internet Explorer you can click on Tools, then Internet Options then you will see the Home Page section at the top. . To create home page tabs, type each address on its own line .. Note the links below that...which are the tabs that open up when you log in the IE. 
To change your homepage in Google Chrome, open your Chrome browser and click on the menu icon represented by three lines on the top right corner of the screen next to the Web address input field. Choose Settings from the drop-down options. In the Settings screen, check the box labeled Show Home button.. 
Hi Kribnbrew, To set MSN.com as your home page, Open Internet Explorer: 1.Go to your MSN page. 2.Click the Tools button (it looks like a gear), and then click Internet Options. 3.On the General tab, in the Home page section, click Use current. Then click apply and then click ok. 
In reply to: Removing MSN.com as I have set Google for Homepage. Hi, in order to change the homepage from your browsers, go to settings and click on the view home page and edit it then change it to Google and save it. In reply to: Removing MSN.com as I have set Google for Homepage. To make Google my homepage i followed the tuturial in the link above.I believe if you do the same,it will help you.If that doesn't help, then you may have to reinstall your browser and follow the tutorial.
Hey Kenny, Here's how you can set Google as your homepage in Internet Explorer. 1. Close all the Internet Explorer windows. 2. Click on Start and then type inetcpl.cpl to open the Internet options window. 3. In the General tab, under homepage, delete the website that is shown there. 4. Type http://www.google.com and press apply. 5.