Find Safa meaning and definition at Hamariweb.com name dictionary a Best place to find your accurate name meanings in Urdu. Safa name reviews, Origin, gender, rating an many more about Safa. my name is safa and my czn name is marwah safa is a very nice name. Safa is a very nice name because the mountain in Umra is Safa Marwah and my sister name is also Safa thats why I like Safa name very much.
Safa or SAFA may refer to: Safa (Arabic name صفاء) means purity, clarity, serenity, lucidity, fineness and fairness. Safa is purity of spirit, heart, mind, and life. 
The name Safa is of Arabic origin, and it means Pure . It's a name commonly given to girls. According to the 2010 U.S. Social Security Administration data, the name Safa is not a popular baby girl's name in California. Imagine that, only 7 babies in California have the same name as you in 2010.
Arabic Meaning: The name Safa is an Arabic baby name. In Arabic the meaning of the name Safa is: Innocent. Muslim Meaning: The name Safa is a Muslim baby name. In Muslim the meaning of the name Safa is: Clarity. Purity. Serenity.
Muslim Baby and Islamic names database provides meaning of Islamic muslim baby boys or girls (male and female) names both in english and urdu, if there are any errors, please report to the editor or submit additional meanings, names and history of muslim names that you think should be included in our database. 
List of Muslim baby names, Muslim baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Muslim names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Muslim baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Safa in Muslim origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame detail
Safa Name Meaning. The meaning of Safa is “Clearness, purity”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Popularity of the Name Safa. This name is not popular in the US, according to Social Security Administration, as there are no popularity data for the name. This doesn't mean that the name Safa is not popular in other countries all over the world. The name might be popular in other countries, in different languages, or even in a different alphabet, as we use the characters from the Latin alphabet to display the data
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Safa and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Safa and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Safa is fascinating, learn more about it. Popularity of the Name Safa. This name is not popular in the US, according to Social Security Administration, as there are no popularity data for the name. This doesn't mean that the name Safa is not popular in other countries all over the world. The name might be popular in other countries, in different languages, or even in a different alphabet, as we use the characters from the Latin alphabet to display the data