How Muscles Work. Muscles usually work in pairs. A good example of a pair of muscles working together can be seen in the human arm. The muscle at the front of the arm is called the biceps muscle. The muscle at the back of the arm is called the triceps muscle. When the biceps muscle is working (contracted) the triceps muscle is relaxed. When the triceps muscle is contracted the biceps muscle is relaxed. This is called antagonistic action of muscles because they are always working in opposite ways. Contraction of the biceps muscle bends the arm. Contraction of the triceps muscle straightens the arm.
HOW MUSCLES WORK. A voluntary muscles usually works across a joint. It is attached to both the bones by strong cords called tendons. When the muscles contracts, usually just one bone moves. For example when the biceps in the arm contracts, the radius moves but the scapula does not. MUSCLE WORKING IN PAIRS. Muscles usually work in pairs or groups, e.g. the biceps flexes the elbow and the triceps extends it. This is called antagonistic muscle action. The working muscle is called the prime mover or agonist. (it s in agony!) The relaxing muscle is the antagonist. The other main pair of muscle that work together are the quadriceps and hamstrings. The prime mover is helped by other muscles called synergists
That's this one here: the triceps muscle. And, vice versa. When the triceps contracts, pulling the lower arm back down to its starting position, the biceps relaxes. Most, but not all, of the skeletal muscles in your body work in these agonist-antagonist pairs. If the agonist flexes a muscle then its antagonist extends. 
It is controlled by two muscles, the biceps on the front of the upper arm, and the triceps on the back of the upper arm. The biceps and the triceps are antagonistic muscles. when the biceps muscle contracts, the forearm moves up. when the triceps muscle contracts, the forearm moves down. This solves the problem. To lift the forearm, the biceps contracts and the triceps relaxes. 
Muscles are normally arranged in opposition so that as one group of muscles contract another group relaxes or lengthens. Antagonistic pairs of muscles are muscle where one move the bone in one direction and the other moves it back the other way in transmission of nerve impulses to the muscles. That means that it is impossible to fully stimulate the contraction of two antagonistic muscles at the same time. Together the skeletal muscles work with your bones to give your body power and strength. Skeletal muscles are held to the bones with the help of tendons. Tendons are cords made of tough tissue, and they work as special connector pieces between bone and muscle.
1 antagonistic muscles A pair of muscles that act on a joint. 2  As one contracts, the other one relaxes. 3  bone Hard, rigid tissue forming the skeleton in humans and other vertebrates. 4  bone marrow Soft tissue found inside bones that produces new blood cells. 3 of 3. Glossary. 1  antagonistic muscles A pair of muscles that act on a joint. 2  As one contracts, the other one relaxes. 3  bone Hard, rigid tissue forming the skeleton in humans and other vertebrates. 4  bone marrow Soft tissue found inside bones that produces new blood cells. 5  contract Become shorter.
The biceps brachii and triceps brachii are the muscles of your upper arm. The biceps muscle is located on the front of your upper arm and is composed of two heads. The triceps makes up the back of your arm and is made up of three heads. 
the agonist of the muscle is a motion that contracts the body to move in its opposition the antagonist is the muscle that causes movement of the posterior and anterior terms of the human body. Antagonistic muscles are found in pairs called antagonistic pairs.  These consist of an extensor muscle, which opens the joint (i.e.  increasing the angle between the two … bones), flexor muscle, which  does the opposite to an extensor muscle.
Antagonist and agonist muscles often occur in pairs, called antagonistic pairs. As one muscle contracts, the other relaxes. An example of an antagonisic pair is the biceps and triceps; to contract-the triceps relaxes while the biceps contracts to lift the arm. 