Liquefaction occurs when vibrations or water pressure within a mass of soil cause the soil particles to lose contact with one another. As a result, the soil behaves like a liquid, has an inability to support weight and can flow down very gentle slopes.
What do you mean by liquefaction. Liquefaction is the process of liquefying or making liquid.(as told by dictionary.) Liquefaction is the process where soil loses strength and acts like a liquid instead of a s … olid.
Liquefaction. Liquefaction is the process of loose soil acting like a liquid during an earthquake. Most of the time, buildings and homes are built upon solid bedrock. However, building also happens on what seems like solid ground.
Liquefaction is the name given to the process that converts a solid soil mass into a liquid. Liquefaction occurs in cohesionless soils (typically those with a higher content … of larger grains such as sand sized clasts) which have water in the pore spaces, and are poorly drained.
Soil liquefaction describes a phenomenon whereby a saturated or partially saturated soil substantially loses strength and stiffness in response to an applied stress, usually earthquake shaking or other sudden change in stress condition, causing it to behave like a liquid.
Liquefaction is the process of loose soil acting like a liquid during an earthquake. Most of the time, buildings and homes are built upon solid bedrock.
Answer by Zippyo. Confidence votes 2.6K. Liquefaction is the process of liquefying or making liquid.(as told by dictionary.) Liquefaction is the process where soil loses strength and acts like a liquid instead of a solid. Please see the related question for an explanation of the cause of liquefaction.
Confidence votes 23.8K. Liquefaction is the name given to the process that converts a solid soil mass into a liquid. Liquefaction occurs in cohesionless soils (typically those with a higher content of larger grains such as sand sized clasts) which have water in the pore spaces, and are poorly drained.