Herpes during pregnancy. Find out how having herpes can affect your pregnancy and how to protect your baby. Flu during pregnancy. The flu can be especially dangerous for pregnant women. Find out how to tell if you have the flu during pregnancy and what to d... 
Complications of pregnancy are health problems that occur during pregnancy. They can involve the mother's health, the baby's health, or both. Some women have health problems before they become pregnant that could lead to complications. Other problems arise during the pregnancy. Before pregnancy, make sure to talk to your doctor about health problems you have now or have had in the past. If you are receiving treatment for a health problem, your doctor might want to change the way your health problem is managed.
Also, if the fever while pregnant is persistent or of a prolonged duration, then this may also be cause for concern as to what is causing the fever to persist over such a long duration. With fever in pregnancy it is important to know the underlying cause of the fever. Even if the fever is not very high, it could still result in problems since the condition or the infection (such as an intrauterine one) that is causing the fever to occur in the first place could be of concern if it passes to the baby.
1. This is a prime example of how the method of use of the herb changes its safety rating. We know that rosemary sprinkled in your tomato sauce is not a risk to you and your baby. However, if you were to use rosemary in a large dose, like that used in medicinal amounts, it could be dangerous for your pregnancy. The following herbs are considered Likely Unsafe or Unsafe during pregnancy: 3. 1  Saw Palmetto – when used orally, has hormonal activity. 2  Goldenseal – when used orally, may cross the placenta. 3  Dong Quai – when used orally, due to uterine stimulant and relaxant effects.
Here are a few of the specific jobs that are unsafe for pregnant women: 1  Farming. 2  Dry Cleaners. 3  Factory work where there is chemical exposure, too much heavy lifting, or a risk for falls. 4  Print Shops. 5  Craft shops that expose you to drying chemicals, paints, etc. 6  Highway worker. 7  Toll Booth operators. 8  Construction. Jobs that are unsafe for pregnant women include: 1  Any job where you are working with hazardous chemicals such as pesticides, toxic cleaning solutions, lead, second hand smoke, etc. 2  Any position where you are doing heavy lifting.
Congratulations on your pregnancy! Food safety should be important to everyone, but as a pregnant women it is especially important for you to learn how to protect yourself and your unborn baby from foodborne illness. 
For most women it will be perfectly safe to continue working during your pregnancy with no changes. However, there are some jobs out there that are just not safe for pregnant women. The job itself, or other environmental factors surrounding the job could be damaging to the baby growing inside of you. Jobs that are unsafe for pregnant women include: 1  Any job where you are working with hazardous chemicals such as pesticides, toxic cleaning solutions, lead, second hand smoke, etc. 2  Any position where you are doing heavy lifting.
Raw shellfish pose a concern for everybody, and they should be avoided altogether during pregnancy. Raw Eggs: Raw eggs or any foods that contain raw eggs should be avoided because of the potential exposure to salmonella. Eating well balanced meals is important at all times, but it is even more essential when you are pregnant. There are essential nutrients, vitamins, and minerals that your developing baby needs. Most foods are safe; however, there are some foods that you should avoid
Many internet websites post lists of medications that are safe to take during pregnancy. But for many of the medications listed, there is not enough known to determine their safety or risk for use during pregnancy. Don’t make decisions about medication use during pregnancy based on lists you find online. This is because pregnant women are often not included in studies to determine safety of new medications before they come on the market. Less than 10% of medications approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) since 1980 have enough information to determine their risk for birth defects.
If you are pregnant and you are considering eating deli meats, make certain that you reheat the meat until it is steaming. Fish with Mercury: Fish that contain high levels of mercury should be avoided. Mercury consumed during pregnancy has been linked to developmental delays and brain damage. Eating well balanced meals is important at all times, but it is even more essential when you are pregnant. There are essential nutrients, vitamins, and minerals that your developing baby needs. Most foods are safe; however, there are some foods that you should avoid during pregnancy.