Part of the Network security glossary: Active reconnaissance is a type of computer attack in which an intruder engages with the targeted system to gather information about vulnerabilities. In a computer security context, reconnaissance is usually a preliminary step toward a further attack seeking to exploit the target system. The attacker often uses port scanning, for example, to discover any vulnerable ports.
noun. Reconnaissance is preliminary research or a preliminary survey such as checking out the lay-of-the-land before taking a military action. An example of reconnaissance is when the military has a mission to go to an area and survey the enemy positions. » more... 1  Before beginning the work, he made a preliminary reconnaissance of the fortifications on the south of the town from the Valley Gate, which was near the S.E.
The word reconnaissance is borrowed from its military use, where it refers to a mission into enemy territory to obtain information. In a computer security context, reconnaissance is usually a preliminary step toward a further attack seeking to exploit the target system. The attacker often uses port scanning, for example, to discover any vulnerable ports.
Reconnaissance is a mission to obtain information by visual observation or other detection methods, about the activities and resources of an enemy or potential enemy, or about the meteorologic, hydrographic, or geographic characteristics of a particular area. Types of reconnaissance: 1  Terrain-oriented reconnaissance is a survey of the terrain (its features, weather, and other natural observations). 2  Force-oriented reconnaissance focuses on the enemy forces (number, equipment, activities, disposition etc.) and may include target acquisition.
reconnaissance. A mission undertaken to obtain, by visual observation or other detection methods, information about the activities and resources of an enemy or potential enemy, or to secure data concerning the meteorological, hydrographic, or geographic characteristics of a particular area. Also called RECON.
Espionage normally is not reconnaissance, because reconnaissance is a military force's operating ahead of its main forces; spies are non-combatants operating behind enemy lines. Often called  recce  (British and Canadian English) or  recon  (American and Australian English), the associated verb is reconnoitre. Types of reconnaissance: 1  Terrain-oriented reconnaissance is a survey of the terrain (its features, weather, and other natural observations). 2  Force-oriented reconnaissance focuses on the enemy forces (number, equipment, activities, disposition etc.) and may include target acquisition.
Traditionally, reconnaissance was a role that was adopted by the cavalry. Speed was key in these maneuvers, thus infantry was ill suited to the task. From horses to vehicles, for warriors throughout history, commanders procured their ability to have speed and mobility, to mount and dismount, during maneuver warfare. Types of reconnaissance: 1  Terrain-oriented reconnaissance is a survey of the terrain (its features, weather, and other natural observations). 2  Force-oriented reconnaissance focuses on the enemy forces (number, equipment, activities, disposition etc.) and may include target acquisition.
The simplest way to prevent most port scan attacks or reconnaissance attacks is to use a good firewall and intrusion prevention system (IPS). The firewall controls which ports are exposed and to whom they are visible. In a computer security context, reconnaissance is usually a preliminary step toward a further attack seeking to exploit the target system. The attacker often uses port scanning, for example, to discover any vulnerable ports.
Aerial reconnaissance is reconnaissance for a military or strategic purpose that is conducted using reconnaissance aircraft. This role can fulfil a variety of requirements, including the collection of imagery intelligence, observation of enemy maneuvers and artillery spotting. However it was the RAF 's Mosquito that excelled in the photo-reconnaissance role, the converted bomber being given three cameras installed in what had been the bomb bay. It had a cruising speed of 255 mph, maximum of 362 mph and a maximum altitude of 35,000 ft.
reconnaissance by fire-a method of reconnaissance in which fire is placed on a suspected enemy position in order to cause the enemy to disclose his presence by moving or returning fire. reconnaissance in force-an offensive operation designed to discover or test the enemy's strength (or to obtain other information). shufti-a quick look around (originally military slang); take a shufti while you're out there. A mission undertaken to obtain, by visual observation or other detection methods, information about the activities and resources of an enemy or potential enemy, or to secure data concerning the meteorological, hydrographic, or geographic characteristics of a particular area. Also called RECON.