Cervical Radiculopathy. Cervical radicular pain refers to pain that is originating in the nerve roots of the neck. Patients often describe radicular pain as radiating, sharp, shooting, and/or electric-type pain. It is often associated with numbness or weakness in the upper extremit
Cervical radicular pain is defined as pain perceived as arising in the arm caused by irritation of a cervical spinal nerve or its roots. 
Cervical radicular pain is pain derived from injury to a cervical nerve root. Cervical radiculopathy is conduction deficit associated with damage to a cervical nerve root. Cervical radicular pain can occur by itself or in combination with cervical radiculopathy. Presenting Features: 1  Pain: Firstly, cervical radicular pain should be considered if the pain in the neck, scapula, shoulder or arm is severe. 2  This pain does not appear to necessarily have the same lancinating nature as lumbar radicular pain.
Radicular pain, or radiculitis, is pain radiated along the dermatome (sensory distribution) of a nerve due to inflammation or other irritation of the nerve root (radiculopathy) at its connection to the spinal column. A common form of radiculitis is sciatica – radicular pain that radiates along the sciatic nerve from the lower spine to the lower back, gluteal muscles, back of the upper thigh, calf, and foot as often secondary to nerve root irritation from a spinal disc herniation or from osteophytes in the lumbar region of the spine.
1 Pain: Firstly, cervical radicular pain should be considered if the pain in the neck, scapula, shoulder or arm is severe. 2  This pain does not appear to necessarily have the same lancinating nature as lumbar radicular pain. 3  It may or may not have typical other neuropathic features such as burning and dysaesthesia. Presenting Features: 1 
Cervical radicular pain is the pain caused by irritation or inflammation or injury of a cervical spine nerve. The pain is located in the upper arm ipsilateral to the lesion and is acute, stabbing, electric shock-like. (3,4). Cervical radicular pain has to be differentiated from cervical radiculopathy. The most common cause of chronic (over 3 months) cervical radicular pain is the formation of adhesions around a nerve root and its chronic irritation. Adhesions may form as a result of acute inflammation due to disc herniation or after spine surger
Radicular pain is a type of pain that radiates into the lower extremity directly along the course of a spinal nerve root. Radicular pain is caused by compression, inflammation and/or injury to a spinal nerve root arising from common conditions including herniated disc, foraminal stenosis and peridural fibrosis. Leg pain can be accompanied by numbness and tingling, muscle weakness and loss of reflexes
Cervical radiculopathy is the clinical description of pain and neurological symptoms resulting from any type of condition that irritates a nerve in the cervical spine (neck). Cervical nerves exit the cervical spine (neck) at each level, C1 - C7. When any nerve root in the cervical spine is irritated through compression or inflammation, the symptoms can radiate along that nerve's pathway into the arm and hand. The patient's specific cervical radiculopathy symptoms will depend primarily on which nerve is affected.
Symptoms of Cervical Radiculopathy. The main symptom of cervical radiculopathy is pain that spreads into the arm, neck, chest, upper back and/or shoulders. A person with radiculopathy may experience muscle weakness and/or numbness or tingling in fingers or hands. Other symptoms may include lack of coordination, especially in the hands. 