Heliocentric and geocentric are two explanations of the arrangement of the universe, including the solar system. The geocentric model says that the earth is at the center of the cosmos or universe, and the planets, the sun and the moon, and the stars circles around it. The early heliocentric models consider the sun as the center, and the planets revolve around the sun. Heliocentric versus Geocentric: what is the difference between the two models? • In the geocentric model, the earth is considered as the center of the universe, and all celestial bodies move around the earth (planets, moon, sun and the stars). • In the heliocentric model, the sun is considered as the center of the universe, and the celestial bodies mo
The geocentric theory reached its pinnacle with the system devised by Ptolemy. Ptolemy's geocentric theory continued to be the system of choice as the Roman empire succeeded that of the Greeks. With the fall of the Roman empire (circa 450 AD), it was left to the Arabs to keep the Ptolemaic view of the universe alive. Eventually, with the re-emergence of European learning in the 13th century, the geocentric view of the universe would be adopted by the Catholic church. It is interesting that in the early European universities, Ptolemy's theory was relegated to the world of mathematics, calendars, and astrology.
A Geocentric theory is an astronomical theory which describes the universe as a Geocentric system, i.e., a system which puts the Earth in the center of the universe, and describes other objects from the point of view of the Earth. 
Today, with advancements in science and technology, the geocentric model seems preposterous. Simple tools, such as the telescope – which helped convince Galileo that the Earth was not the center of the universe – can prove that ancient theory incorrect. You might want to check out one article on the history of the geocentric model and one regarding the geocentric theory. Here are links to two other articles from Universe Today on what the center of the universe is and Galileo one of the advocates of the heliocentric model
The geocentric model, also known as the Ptolemaic system, is a theory that was developed by philosophers in Ancient Greece and was named after the philosopher Claudius Ptolemy who lived circa 90 to 168 A.D. It was developed to explain how the planets, the Sun, and even the stars orbit around the Earth. Simple tools, such as the telescope – which helped convince Galileo that the Earth was not the center of the universe – can prove that ancient theory incorrect. You might want to check out one article on the history of the geocentric model and one regarding the geocentric theory.
Heliocentric Universe. A heliocentric universe is a universe in which the sun is the center and the planets orbit around it. Copernicus was the first person to formulate this idea. The idea of a heliocentric universe was rejected by the Church because God's prized creation, Earth, should be at the center. A geocentric universe is the model of the universe created by Ptolemy, in which everything in the universe (sun, stars, other planets, etc.) orbits around the Earth.
Geo means earth, and centric means centered.. The geocentric view is therefore the earth centered view. The word typically refers to the view of the earth as the ce … nter of the universe. The earth is the center of human interest. Beyond that the earth/moon system isn't the center of anything. In a geocentric universe the earth is the center of the universe or solar system and everything revolves around it.   In a heliocentric universe the sun or a star is … the center of the universe or solar system. We live in a heliocentric solar system with the sun as the center. 6 people found this useful.