Ore formed-by replacement and recently mined from a deposit near the edge of this pocket contained from 2 to 4 ounces of gold and 2 to 25 ounces of silver to the ton. Ore mined in 1898, that may have represented the central cave filling, had a value of as much as $3,000 per car of 10 tons. ORE DEPOSITION, TJNCOMPAHGRE DISTRICT, COLO. 201 gold; (2) pyritic ores containing copper and gold; (3) pyritic base-metal ores containing native gold, with gold and silver tellurides; (4) siliceous and baritic ores containing silver, lead, and zinc, but commonly little gold.
Structural geology and geological modelling-our philosophy and approach. Our investigation of hundreds of mineral deposits shows that structural geometry represents the fundamental control on the flow of mineralising fluids and the deposition of mineralisation. However, there is a lack of recognition and/or documentation by exploration and mining personnel of the importance of structural geological features. Orefind investigates structural geological issues at all scales. We use observations and data from ongoing outcrop, core, and mine sources to progressively update an interactive 3D model that addresses the needs of exploration or mining optim
14 MINERAL RESOURCES OF THE ILLINOIS-KENTUCKY MINING DISTRICT The major ore control of deposits in the bedded, vein, and solution-slump structures is the intersection of fissures with the Ste. 12 MINERAL RESOURCES OF THE ILLINOIS-KENTUCKY MINING DISTRICT deposits have the shape of very long lenses; they are several times as long as they are wide and several times as wide as they are thick. The stratigraphic position of the major deposits is shown in figure 4
Mineral exploration is the process of finding ores (commercially viable concentrations of minerals) to mine. Mineral exploration is a much more intensive, organized and professional form of mineral prospecting and, though it frequently uses the services of prospecting, the process of mineral exploration on the whole is much more involved.
Orefind has the most experience in the world at using Leapfrog software and we use this software to resolve critical issues in the mineral resource industry. Orefind does not receive any payment in commission or finders fees from the makers of Leapfrog software, or any other software company. However, there is a lack of recognition and/or documentation by exploration and mining personnel of the importance of structural geological features. Orefind investigates structural geological issues at all scales. We use observations and data from ongoing outcrop, core, and mine sources to progressively update an interactive 3D model that addresses the needs of exploration or mining optimisation
Hot-spring gold-silver deposits represent the third major deposit type in northern Nevada. These near-surface deposits, the shallowest setting of ore genesis in northern Nevada, provide a link between the magmatic and hydrologic environments. Figure: Gold ore from the Olinghouse epithermal deposit, Nevada. This project focuses research efforts on fundamental questions still seeking resolution regarding the genesis of gold-sliver deposits in the Great Basin.
Our mission is to make a measurable, material difference to mineral exploration and mining projects through an integrated approach of data collection, modelling, and interpretation. However, there is a lack of recognition and/or documentation by exploration and mining personnel of the importance of structural geological features. Orefind investigates structural geological issues at all scales. We use observations and data from ongoing outcrop, core, and mine sources to progressively update an interactive 3D model that addresses the needs of exploration or mining optimis
These deposits include: (1) world-class sedimentary rock-hosted gold-silver deposits, such as those found along the Carlin trend; (2) pluton-related gold deposits that are peripheral to porphyry copper-gold deposits; and (3) hot-spring gold-silver deposits that are the shallowest deposits in the region. Figure: Gold ore from the Olinghouse epithermal deposit, Nevada. This project focuses research efforts on fundamental questions still seeking resolution regarding the genesis of gold-sliver deposits in the Great Basin.