Transcription is the process by which the genetic information stored in DNA is used to produce a complementary RNA strand. In more detail, the DNA base sequence is first copied into an RNA molecule, called premessenger RNA, by messenger RNA (mRNA) polymerase. 
During transcription, the enzyme RNA polymerase (green) uses DNA as a template to produce a pre-mRNA transcript (pink). The pre-mRNA is processed to form a mature mRNA molecule that can be translated to build the protein molecule (polypeptide) encoded by the original gene. The translation of mRNA begins with the formation of a complex on the mRNA (Figure 4). First, three initiation factor proteins (known as IF1, IF2, and IF3) bind to the small subunit of the ribosome.
The ribosome (/ˈraɪbɵˌzoʊm/) is a large and complex molecular machine, found within all living cells, that serves as the site of biological protein synthesis (translation). Ribosomes link amino acids together in the order specified by messenger RNA (mRNA) molecules. Ribosomes consist of two major components: the small ribosomal subunit, which reads the RNA, and the large subunit, which joins amino acids to form a polypeptide chain. Each subunit is composed of one or more ribosomal RNA (rRNA) molecules and a variety of proteins.
There are three primary types of RNA involved in protein synthesis: messenger RNA, transfer RNA and ribosomal RNA. Messenger RNA. Whereas most types of RNA are the final products of their genes, messenger RNA (mRNA) is an intermediate in the information transfer process. It carries information from DNA to the ribosome in a genetic code that the protein-synthesizing machinery translates into protein. Protein synthesis is the process by which cells build or manufacture proteins. It refers to a multi-step process through which information is transferred from DNA to RNA and then from RNA to proteins. The flow of information from DNA to RNA to proteins is one of the fundamental principles of molecular biology.
In translation, messenger RNA (mRNA) —produced by transcription from DNA —is decoded by a ribosome to produce a specific amino acid chain, or polypeptide. The polypeptide later folds into an active protein and performs its functions in the cell. 
Messenger RNA (mRNA) carries information about a protein sequence to the ribosomes, the protein synthesis factories in the cell. It is coded so that every three nucleotides (a codon) correspond to one amino acid. Three of the rRNA molecules are synthesized in the nucleolus, and one is synthesized elsewhere. In the cytoplasm, ribosomal RNA and protein combine to form a nucleoprotein called a ribosome. The ribosome binds mRNA and carries out protein synthesis. Several ribosomes may be attached to a single mRNA at any time.
During transcription, mRNA is formed. This type of RNA carries codons. The m stands for messenger. This describes the job that mRNA fulfills in the DNA process. 
Report Abuse. If the gene transcribed encodes for a protein, the result of transcription is messenger RNA (mRNA. The transcribed gene may encode for either ribosomal RNA (rRNA) or transfer RNA (tRNA), other components of the protein-assembly process, or other ribozymes. Best Answer: The correct answer is mRNA, tRNA, rRNA, microRNA, and so on. That is, transcription is not limited to just the production of mRNA. However, if it is a beginning biology class, the answer they may want is mRNA.
Messenger RNA (mRNA) is the RNA that carries information from DNA to the ribosome, the sites of protein synthesis (translation) in the cell. The coding sequence of the mRNA determines the amino acid sequence in the protein that is produced. Three of the rRNA molecules are synthesized in the nucleolus, and one is synthesized elsewhere. In the cytoplasm, ribosomal RNA and protein combine to form a nucleoprotein called a ribosome. The ribosome binds mRNA and carries out protein synthesis. Several ribosomes may be attached to a single mRNA at any time.
Report Abuse. mRNA or messenger RNA that travels to the ribosomes. At the ribosomes tRNA is formed to code for amino acids in protein synthesis or nucleic acids in DNA copying. Best Answer: The correct answer is mRNA, tRNA, rRNA, microRNA, and so on. That is, transcription is not limited to just the production of mRNA. However, if it is a beginning biology class, the answer they may want is mRNA.