1. Check if your rabbit is pregnant. Medium to large size rabbits are sexually mature at 4 to 4.5 months, while giant breeds are ready at 6 to 9 months. If your female rabbit is at this stage of maturity and you have reason to suspect that she has been breeding, then check for pregnancy as follows. How to Take Care of a Pregnant Rabbit. If you own a pregnant doe (a female rabbit), you will need to know how to take care of her before, during, and after her pregnancy. It's important to be aware of what is needed to ensure both her health and the safe delivery of her babies.
When referring to the parents of a rabbit, the mother is called the dam, and the father is called the sire. When you mate two rabbits together, this is called breeding. When you check to see if the doe is pregnant or when you breed her again before she is due to give birth, this is called testing. Introduction A small breed doe is normally ready to mate when she is 5 months old, and a buck is ready at 6 months. The medium size doe is ready to breed when she is 6 months old and the buck at 7 months.
When you take the young rabbits away from the mother, this is called weaning. Introduction A small breed doe is normally ready to mate when she is 5 months old, and a buck is ready at 6 months. The medium size doe is ready to breed when she is 6 months old and the buck at 7 months. The heavy breed doe is ready at 8 months and the buck is ready at 9 months. It's usually a good idea to select rabbits to breed whose ancestry has evidence of good productivity and good genetics
1 Until the age of 8 months, keep kits fed on rabbit pellets. 2  Leave the kits with mother until 6-7 weeks of age. 3  At this point, if the litter is large, you can remove the largest pair or trio and place them in their own cage. 4  This will give a chance to the smaller ones to nurse for a week longer and catch up in weight. How to Take Care of a Pregnant Rabbit. If you own a pregnant doe (a female rabbit), you will need to know how to take care of her before, during, and after her pregnancy. It's important to be aware of what is needed to ensure both her health and the safe delivery of her babies.
Info on Rabbits Answer: The answer to your question depends on the breed of rabbit. Very large breeds tend to mature later, and the dwarf breeds tend to mature earlier. A good middle-of-the-road rule of thumb is about 6 months, however don’t think that male rabbits can’t make babies before this age. 
Best Answer: No rabbit should be sold before it is 8 weeks (2 months) old. At 4 weeks they still need their mother's milk. It is wrong to sell kits that young. At this young of an age it is hard to tell what sex they are. But a rabbit can become pregnant as young as 12 weeks. This is very dangerous and will result in the death of the doe. They can become pregnant when they reach 2 years of age or sexual maturaty, and yes the month old rabbits are still trying to get a feel for hopping, so they would be a bit clumbsy,lol! mary b · 7 years ago.
However it is not good practice to allow the doe to become pregnant straight after giving birth. It is better to mate the doe when her young (litter) are 4 weeks old so that they are 8 weeks old when the next litter is born. In this way one doe can produce 6 litters a year. Two weeks after mating you can feel the young through the side of the doe's belly. Does are mature and can breed at 5 to 6 months of age and can continue to have young for 4 years. The length of pregnancy in the rabbit is 31 days and the doe can produce from 1 to 12 young each time she gives birth. She can become pregnant again within a few days of giving birth
1 You're separating papa not because he might harm the babies (many rabbit fathers are very gentle and loving with baby rabbits), but because he can impregnate the mother again within hours after the birth. 2  Because rabbit gestation is only 28 - 31 days, this means she'll give birth again before her first litter is weaned. 