G. stearothermophilus is an aerobic, spore-forming bacterium, that is a chemoautotroph. It is able to complete respiration using simple organic compounds such as sugars, amino acids, and organic acids, and with oxygen as the terminal electron acceptor. Geobacillus stearothermophilus (or Bacillus stearophilus) is a rod-shaped, Gram-positive, spore-forming bacterium, that is able to grow either singly or in chains. [9] The cell wall structures of this bacterium are consistent with features found on typical Gram-positive bacterium
Geobacillus stearothermophilus (formally Bacillus stearothermophilus) is a rod-shaped, Gram-positive bacterium and a member of the division Firmicutes. Biological indicators are used in conjunction with chemical indicators and process indicators to validate sterilization processes. It was first described in 1920 as Bacillus stearothermophilus, but, together with Bacillus thermoglucosidasius, it was reclassified as a member of the genus Geobacillus in 2001.
Since Geobacillus stearothermophilus is a Gram-positive bacteria, its cell wall has a thick peptidoglycan layer [3]. This peptidoglycan layer contains DAP, or meso-diaminopimelic acid, and has a substantial amount of teichoic acids bonded to muramic acid residues, which helps the cell wall during cell division [3]. Geobacillus stearothermophilus (or Bacillus stearophilus) is a rod-shaped, Gram-positive, spore-forming bacterium, that is able to grow either singly or in chains. [9] The cell wall structures of this bacterium are consistent with features found on typical Gram-positive bacterium
Abstract. Geobacillus stearothermophilus (formerly Bacillus stearothermophilus) is a thermophilic, aerobic bacterium, which produces heat-resistant spores. It forms biofilms attaching to stainless steel surfaces in dairy plants. Geobacillus stearothermophilus is included in the usual microflora of cocoa bean fermentation as well as of cocoa powder. It is the dominant microorganism of beet sugar and is isolated from pasteurized milk, ultrahigh-heat-treated milk, and milk powders.
Geobacillus stearothermophilus is a gram positive thermophilic (heat loving) bacteria characterized by a inner cell membrane and a thick cell wall. G. stearothermophilus is a rod shaped anaerob found in thermophilic habitats like thermal vents. No pathogenic strains of Geobacillus stearothermophilus have been found so far. The bacteria is used in the production of enzymes in the commercial food industry where no foodborne cases or food saftey problems have been identified thus far. (11).
Bacillus. a genus of bacteria that are gram-positive, aerobic, spore-forming rods. With the exception of B. anthracis and the occasional wound contamination and bovine mastitis caused by B. cereus, the organisms are largely saprophytic and do not cause disease. However, they may invade devitalized tissue. Any of various rod-shaped, usually gram-positive aerobic bacteria of the genus Bacillus that often occur in chains and include Bacillus anthracis, the causative agent of anthrax. 2. Any of various bacteria, especially a rod-shaped bacterium.
Description and Significance: Geobacillus stearothermophilus (or Bacillus stearophilus) is a rod-shaped, Gram-positive, spore-forming bacterium, that is able to grow either singly or in chains. [9] The cell wall structures of this bacterium are consistent with features found on typical Gram-positive bacterium.
The bacteria is a thermophile and is widely distributed in soil, hot springs, ocean sediment, and is a cause of spoilage in food products. It will grow within a temperature range of 30-75 degrees Celsius. Some strains are capable of oxidizing carbon monoxide aerobically. Biological indicators are used in conjunction with chemical indicators and process indicators to validate sterilization processes. It was first described in 1920 as Bacillus stearothermophilus, but, together with Bacillus thermoglucosidasius, it was reclassified as a member of the genus Geobacillus in 2001.