For a Detailed Description-CLICK HERE. Smudging is the common name given to the indigenous American tradition known as the Sacred Smoke Bowl Blessing. This is a powerful spiritual cleansing technique which calls upon the spirits of various sacred plants to drive away negative energy and to restore balance to an individual, a group, a space, or all three. The History of Smudging. Smudging has only come into the general Western consciousness in the past few decades, so it may seem strange and new age-y to some. However, smudging is a traditional that goes back thousands of years. In a way, it is like the indigenous American form of incense use.
A smudge stick is a bundle of dried herbs, usually bound with string into a small bundle. The herbs are later burned as part of a ritual or ceremony. Plants that are often used include sage and cedar. The American English term smudge stick is usually found in use among non-Indigenous people who believe they are imitating North American Native ceremonies.
As even the happiest homes accumulate in time negative vibrations, it is good to smudge your home thoroughly at least several times a year. You can also smudge your office space (not during busy office hours!); as well as use smudging to clear your own energy or the energy of other people. 
Body purification. Mystics say the Native American practice of smudging, or purifying a room with the smoke of sacred herbs, can help clear negative energy from a space. And the apparent benefits are steeped in science—when burned, sage and other herbs release negative ions, which research has linked to a more positive mood. To practice smudging at home, it’s important to be respectful and learn how to handle the herbs according to traditional protocols, says Cat Criger, aboriginal elder-in-residence at the University of Toronto. When done properly, smudging can be a way to connect with Native American culture, he notes.
Smudging is usually done by lighting the tip of the smudge stick with a candle light, then gently waving it in the air till the tip begins to smoulder. You can then guide the smoke coming from the smudge to specific parts of your house, or parts of your body. Many people are not comfortable with the idea of smudging, either because of the scent, or because of the actual smudging procedure. In order to know if smudging is something you would like to use in your home, let's first have a look at what smudging is and what it actually does.
THE ART OF SMUDGING. Smudging is the burning of herbs with the intent to bring about/manifest a desired change in one’s emotions, thoughts, surroundings and reality. Smudging is a golden thread that connects and runs through all cultures, religions and belief systems and has been practiced throughout the millennia. 
smudging (smuˑ·jing) , n in Native American medicine, the ritual of purifying the location, patient, healer, helpers and ritual objects by using the smoke obtained by burning sacred plants, such as sage, sweetgrass, and cedar. It alters the state of consciousness and enhances sensitivity. 
A smudging ceremony is often carried out for the purpose of clearing negative energy, and inviting peace, harmony, and ease into a person's life, a challenging situation, or an uneasy or negative environment. It can be as involved as you want it to be. 
Smudging is a way of connecting the material plane to the realm of the spirits. And, in fact, any sort of fragrant, medicinal herb can be used in smudging. Some tribes use cedar as a way of carrying prayers up to heaven. The History of Smudging. Smudging has only come into the general Western consciousness in the past few decades, so it may seem strange and new age-y to some. However, smudging is a traditional that goes back thousands of years. In a way, it is like the indigenous American form of incense use.
While the burning of incense, and the use of sacred fires that put off smoke, is found in many cultures worldwide, those activities are not known as smudging.. Smudging with sage, or other herbs sacred to Indigenous Peoples, is a different and culturally-specific practice. The American English term smudge stick is usually found in use among non-Indigenous people who believe they are imitating North American Native ceremonies.