Since a contract is a legally binding agreement, in the typical scenario, once you enter into a contract with another person or business, you and the other party are both expected to fulfill the terms of the contract. For example, a court will never enforce a contract promoting something already against state or federal law (you can never enforce a contract for an illegal marijuana sale) or an agreement that offends the public sensibilities (contracts involving some sort of sexual immorality, for example).
A legal contract is never a void contract, though it may be a voidable contract. What was previously an enforceable contract may become unenforceable in the event laws that make the contracted act illegal are passed after the contract has been created. 
Therefore, oral contracts may be binding in many circumstances. Enforceable Contracts are Important. Contracts provide parties with the assurance that their agreement will be honored or that they will be entitled to damages for the other party’s failure to honor the agreement. They provide security to our business relationships and encourage people to honor their commitments.
In order for a contract to be enforceable, its subject matter cannot be prohibited by law or violate public policy. For example, a contract for the sale of illegal drugs is not enforcable, and a person cannot promise to transfer clear title to real estate if the property is encumbered by a lien or mortgage. The Essential Provisions of an Enforceable Contract. There are six basic requirements in a legally enforceable contract: 1  An offer. 2  An acceptance. 3  Competent parties who have the legal capacity to contract. 4  Lawful subject matter. 5  Mutuality of obligation. 6  Consideration.
The 7 elements of an enforceable contracts are: - the offer-the acceptance of the offer-the capacity to contract for the different parties-no mistake, misreprese … ntation or undue influence-the lawfulness of the object of the contract-the intention to be legally binding-the consideration. 
By definition, contracts are enforceable agreements which people enter so that each party has the reassurance that his or her interests are legally protected. In order for each party’s interests to be protected, the agreement must be a legal contract, as that term is defined by state law. The Elements of a Contract. Enforceable Contracts are Important. Contracts provide parties with the assurance that their agreement will be honored or that they will be entitled to damages for the other party’s failure to honor the agreement. They provide security to our business relationships and encourage people to honor their commitments.
An agreement to purchase marijuana, for example, is not a legal contract. Because the subject matter of the agreement is illegal, the contract is not enforceable and the parties have no legal remedies for breach. Similarly, a contract with a minor is not legally enforceable. A contract is an agreement between two parties that creates an obligation to perform (or not perform) a particular duty. A legally enforceable contract requires: 1  An Offer (I’ll mow your lawn this weekend if you pay me $30). 2  An Acceptance (You’ve got a deal).
Generally, the elements of a contract discussed below must be fulfilled if an agreement is to be considered a legally binding contract in a court of law: 1. Offer and Acceptance: a party must make an offer to do something or provide something to the other party and the other party must accept that offer. Enforceable Contracts are Important. Contracts provide parties with the assurance that their agreement will be honored or that they will be entitled to damages for the other party’s failure to honor the agreement. They provide security to our business relationships and encourage people to honor their commitments.
A contract is a legally enforceable promise or undertaking that something will or will not occur. The word promise can be used as a legal synonym for contract, although care is required as a promise may not have the full standing of a contract, as when it is an agreement without consideration. A bilateral contract is an agreement in which each of the parties to the contract makes a promise or set of promises to each other. For example, in a contract for the sale of a home, the buyer promises to pay the seller $200,000 in exchange for the seller's promise to deliver title to the property.