a hormone produced by the adrenal medulla; called also adrenaline (British). Its function is to aid in the regulation of the sympathetic branch of the autonomic nervous system. A hormone of the adrenal medulla which, instilled in the eye, causes a constriction of the conjunctival vessels, dilates the pupil and diminishes the intraocular pressure. See adrenergic receptors; ocular decongestant; naphazoline; neurotransmitter; noradrenaline (norepinephrine).
Epinephrine is a hormone and a neurotransmitter that's also known as adrenaline. As an injectable medicine, such as EpiPen, epinephrine is used to treat life-threatening allergic reactions (anaphylaxis) caused by foods, insect bites, and other allergens. 
Epinephrine (ep-uh-nef-rin, -reen) is also known as adrenaline. It is a hormone that is secreted by the adrenal glands. (1, 3). Adrenalin, without the e, was originally used as a trademark for a product made by an American pharmaceutical firm Parke, Davis & Co. Epinephrine, along with another hormone called glucagon, is responsible for the breakdown of glycogen in liver cells. Glycogen is a form of energy storage in animals. Epinephrine binds to a receptor on the outside of a liver cell causing a conformational change to occur.
Print | Email article to a friend | Last updated: January 15, 2015. Adrenaline is a hormone released from the adrenal glands and its major action, together with noradrenaline, is to prepare the body for fight or flight. Alternative names for adrenaline Epinephrine. 
The adrenal glands are found directly above the kidneys in the human body, and are roughly 3 inches (7.62 cm) in length. Adrenaline is one of several hormones produced by these glands. Along with norepinephrine and dopamine, it is a catecholamine, which is a group of hormones released in response to stress.
Epinephrine is normally produced by both the adrenal glands and certain neurons. It plays an important role in the fight-or-flight response by increasing blood flow to muscles, output of the heart, pupil dilation, and blood sugar. Racemic epinephrine has historically been used for the treatment of croup. Racemic adrenaline is a 1:1 mixture of the dextrorotatory (d) and levorotatory (l) isomers of adrenaline. The l-form is the active component.
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. Adrenaline is a hormone produced by the adrenal glands during high stress or exciting situations. This powerful hormone is part of the human body's acute stress response system, also called the fight or flight response. Adrenaline is one of several hormones produced by these glands. Along with norepinephrine and dopamine, it is a catecholamine, which is a group of hormones released in response to stress.
Epinephrine, also known as adrenaline, is a medication, hormone and neurotransmitter. As a medication it is used for a number of conditions including: anaphylaxis, cardiac arrest, and superficial bleeding. Inhaled epinephrine may be used to improve the symptoms of croup. Racemic epinephrine has historically been used for the treatment of croup. Racemic adrenaline is a 1:1 mixture of the dextrorotatory (d) and levorotatory (l) isomers of adrenaline. The l-form is the active component.
adrenaline. n. 1. (Biochemistry) a hormone that is secreted by the adrenal medulla in response to stress and increases heart rate, pulse rate, and blood pressure, and raises the blood levels of glucose and lipids. It is extracted from animals or synthesized for such medical uses as the treatment of asthma. adrenaline-a catecholamine secreted by the adrenal medulla in response to stress (trade name Adrenalin); stimulates autonomic nerve action.
Confidence votes 38. Adrenaline is a hormone produced by the adrenal glands. It helps regulate the central nervous system and certain other bodily functions. Another name is epinephrine. adrenaline is a hormone used for transmission of nerve impulses throughout the body. when you get mad and get moving furiosly. 1 Defining Adrenaline: Its Uses, Benefits, and Dangers The definition of adrenaline indicates that it is a hormone discharge by the adrenal medulla during a stressful or exciting event.