It is in general known as the best airline in Peru. Flights to/from: Arequipa, Lima, Chiclayo, Cajamarca, Cuzco, Iquitos, Juliaca, Piura, Puerto Maldonado, Tacna, Tarapoto, Trujilo and Tumbes. Safety: Excellent safety record according to Aero International: 2 accidents since 1983. Latest 21 years ago. Safe airline. It is one of the better airlines in Peru. Flights to/from: Arequipa, Chiclayo, Cuzco, Juliaca, Lima, Piura, Puerto Maldonado, Tarapoto and Trujilo. Safety: Quite a young fleet. No history of accidents in Peru.
LAN Airlines is hands down my favorite airline in South America. If you didn’t know LAN is based out of Chile and they have just begun a massive expansion strategy. They have three affiliates; LAN Argentina, LAN Ecuador, and LAN Peru, that operate in those countries respectively. Chile has long been considered the Switzerland of the south and it’s not just because of the Andes. Chile is the most developed and efficient country in South America. Keyword: Efficient. In a Latin American culture where 2 o’clock means 3 o’clock and everyone is always late, LAN is breaking the rules.
StarPerú, starperú founded in, 1997 began life as a cargo operator and charter flight. Service it became a-fully fledged passenger airline in 2004 and has since grown into one Of’peru s major domestic. Operators the airline is not as big or sophisticated AS lan AND, taca but the lower prices are a definite. advantage It became a fully-fledged passenger airline in 2004 and has since grown into one of Peru’s major domestic operators. The airline is not as big or sophisticated as LAN and TACA, but the lower prices are a definite advantage. Overall, StarPerú starperú is a good option for all major destinations In. peru
LAN Airlines is the flag carrier of Chile, the predominant airline in Chile and Peru, and the second largest carrier in Argentina, Colombia and Ecuador, through its local subsidiaries. LAN is one of the largest airlines in Latin America, serving Latin America, North America, the Caribbean, Oceania, and Europe. The carrier has been a member of the Oneworld airline alliance since 2000. It is the 49th oldest air carrier in the world from its foundation date, and the 10th oldest airline in operation today. LATAM Airlines Group was formed after the takeover by LAN of Brazilian TAM Airlines which was completed on June 22, 2012. In 2002, LAN Chile started its internationalization process through LAN Peru perú AND Lan. Ecuador In march, 2004 Lan chile and its, SUBSIDIARIES Lan, PERU Perú, LAN Ecuador lan DOMINICANA And, lan express became unified under THE unique lan brand, and livery eliminating each airline country name on. the brands
UTC -5. Peru is a country in South America, situated on the western side of that continent, facing the South Pacific Ocean and straddling part of the Andes mountain range that runs the length of South America. Peru is bordered by Ecuador and Colombia to the north, Brazil and Bolivia to the east, and Chile to the south. Peru is a country that has a diversity and wealth not common in the world. 
In answer to the question – Is flying in Peru safe, the answer is certainly yes. However, some airlines have better schedules and prices than others, and one airline had a bad moment a few years back, which damaged its reputation with us. This luxury Peru vacations article about ‘is flying in Peru safe?’ was brought to you by Totally Latin America, experts in Luxury Peru travel and tours.
There is one reason why I love LAN: Efficiency. Chile has long been considered the Switzerland of the south and it’s not just because of the Andes. Chile is the most developed and efficient country in South America. Keyword: Efficient. In a Latin American culture where 2 o’clock means 3 o’clock and everyone is always late, LAN is breaking the rules.
It’s not a bad question to ask, after all this is probably your first time in Peru, if not South America, and things are very different in Latin America. Well, you’ll be pleased to know that yes, actually flying in Peru is safe. There are 4 commercial airlines that operate in Peru, and all of them offer daily flights to major cities around the country. The four airlines are: LAN Airlines, TACA Airlines, Star Peru and Peruvian Airlines. This luxury Peru vacations article about ‘is flying in Peru safe?’ was brought to you by Totally Latin America, experts in Luxury Peru travel and tours.
Booked Star Peru for a flight from Lima to Cusco and will probably book LAN for a flight from Arequipa to Lima. I don’t think they charge a gringo tax on that route. I can not find it on their website at least and for 100 dollar it’s ok :). Thanks. It is one of the better airlines in Peru. Flights to/from: Arequipa, Chiclayo, Cuzco, Juliaca, Lima, Piura, Puerto Maldonado, Tarapoto and Trujilo. Safety: Quite a young fleet. No history of accidents in Peru.