Chemistry of the individual oxides Sodium oxide Sodium oxide is a simple strongly basic oxide. It is basic because it contains the oxide ion, O2-, which is a very strong base with a high tendency to combine with hydrogen ions. In this (and similar reactions with other acids), aluminium oxide is showing the basic side of its amphoteric nature. Reaction with bases. Aluminium oxide has also got an acidic side to its nature, and it shows this by reacting with bases such as sodium hydroxide solution.
Remember, most metals form basic oxides where most non-metals will form acidic oxides because of what they produce when placed in water-Sodium oxide will produce Sodium Hydroxide which is a strong base. 
Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. sodium oxide (solid) is NOT an alkali. sodium oxide forms sodium hydroxide (aqueous) is an alkali. so sodium oxide becomes an alkali only when in aqueous form and in aqueous form it is called sodium hydroxide. 
If a base does dissolve in water, we call it an alkali. Here are two examples: Copper oxide is a base because it will react with acids and neutralise them, but it is not an alkali because it does not dissolve in water. Sodium hydroxide is a base because it will react with acids and neutralise them. It's also an alkali because it dissolves in water
ACID-BASE BEHAVIOUR OF THE PERIOD 3 OXIDES This page looks at the reactions of the oxides of Period 3 elements (sodium to chlorine) with water, and with acids or bases where relevant. Argon is obviously omitted because it doesn't form an oxide. In this (and similar reactions with other acids), aluminium oxide is showing the basic side of its amphoteric nature. Reaction with bases. Aluminium oxide has also got an acidic side to its nature, and it shows this by reacting with bases such as sodium hydroxide solution.
(sulphur dioxide + water → sulphurous acid). Alkaline [alkali: A base which is soluble in water.] solutions are made when soluble metal oxides or metal hydroxides dissolve in water. eg. Na 2 O(s) + H 2 O(l) → 2NaOH(aq). (sodium oxide + water → sodium hydroxide). Here are some acids and alkalis that you may recognise. Video: Acidic, alkaline or neutral. In order to see this content you need to have both Javascript enabled and Flash installed.
The alkali metals are a group (column) in the periodic table consisting of the chemical elements lithium (Li), sodium (Na), potassium (K), rubidium (Rb), caesium (Cs), and francium (Fr). All of the discovered alkali metals occur in nature: in order of abundance, sodium is the most abundant, followed by potassium, lithium, rubidium, caesium, and finally francium, which is very rare due to its extremely high radioactivity and thus occurs only in traces due to its presence in natural decay chains.
Sodium oxide (SOX) is a chemical compound with the formula Na 2 O. It is used in ceramics and glasses, though not in a raw form. It is the base anhydride of sodium hydroxide, so when water is added to sodium oxide NaOH is produced. 