Nouns denoting communicative processes and contents. Synonyms: literary genre; writing style; genre. Hypernyms (literary genre is a kind of...): expressive style; style (a way of expressing something (in language or art or music etc.) that is characteristic of a particular person or group of people or period). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of literary genre):
Writing genres (commonly known, more narrowly, as literary genres) are determined by narrative technique, tone, content and by critics' definitions of the genres. Writing genres may be fictional or non-fictional. This list is incomplete; you can help by expanding it. Genre is a label that characterizes elements a reader can expect in a work of literature. The major forms of literature can be written in various genres. Genre is a category characterized by similarities in style, or subject matter. The classic major genres of literature are:
Poetry is the first major literary genre. All types of poetry share specific characteristics. In fact, poetry is a form of text that follows a meter and rhythm with each lines and syllables. It is further subdivided into different genres such an epic poem, narrative, romantic, dramatic, and lyric. Genre Definition. Genre means the type of art, literature or music characterized by a specific form, content and style. For example, literature has four main genres; poetry, drama, fiction and non-fiction. All of these genres have particular features and functions that distinguish them from one another
A genre is a category of literature, such as mystery, suspense, science fiction or horror. Each genre has its own conventions. Romance, for example, focuses on romantic love between two people and often ends positively. 
A literary genre is a category of literary composition. Genres may be determined by literary technique, tone, content, or even (as in the case of fiction) length. The distinctions between genres and categories are flexible and loosely defined, often with subgroups. Genre should not be confused with age categories, by which literature may be classified as either adult, young-adult, or children's. They also must not be confused with format, such as graphic novel or picture book.
Fiction, of course, is a work that is imagined from the mind, a different world than reality. An argument can be made that there are two types of fiction when it comes to novels: Genre Fiction and Literary Fiction. The former includes many subcategories such as Mystery/Thriller, Horror, Romance, Western, Fantasy, Science Fiction, etc. The latter is more difficult to classify or break apart into subcategories
A literary genre therefore means a category of literary composition or endeavor: a category meant to describe the writing style, technique, tone, length, and content of certain literary forms. As mentioned, the literary genre can be determined by the writing style, technique, tone, length, and content of the composition. Examples of literary genres determined by: 1  Style and technique: poetry, drama. 2  Tone: religious, children's literature, women's fiction. 3  Length: short story, novel