A contract is an agreement between two parties or entities for the exchange of goods, services or money. A contract administrator makes sure the parties employ due diligence to comply with the terms, conditions, rights and obligations of the contract. Ensuring complainance with a contract is a job of a contract administrator. Experience and ability to manage complicated contract structures are both important for
Job Description for Contracts Administrator I. Aids in the preparation of contractual provisions and the administration of contract proposals. Responsible for preparing bids and negotiating specifications and contractual provisions. The annual salary for someone with the job title Contracts Administrator I may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Contracts Administrator I in the United States is $54,322 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Contracts Administrator I in the United States are expected to make less than $54,322. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $54,322. 1  Salary. The annual salary for someone with the job title Contracts Administrator I may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education.
A career as a contract administrator is a great choice for those who want a career that offers a high level of responsibility, the opportunity to negotiate contracts, the opportunity to work in a team environment, and has excellent prospects for growth. If you want to become a contract administrator, you first need to determine if this career path is a good fit for you. If the following description sounds like you, then you’re probably well suited for a career as a contract administrator:
If you want to become a contract administrator, you must be comfortable working closely with others and sharing your opinions with them. You should enjoy working in a business administration environment, and prefer working a typical weekday schedule. If you want to become a contract administrator, you first need to determine if this career path is a good fit for you. If the following description sounds like you, then you’re probably well suited for a career as a contract administrator:
Contract management or contract administration is the management of contracts made with customers, vendors, partners, or employees. The personnel involved in Contract Administration required to negotiate, support and manage effective contracts are expensive to train and retain. A study has found that for 42% of enterprises...the top driver for improvements in the management of contracts is the pressure to better assess and mitigate risks and additionally,nearly 65% of enterprises report that contract lifecycle management (CLM) has improved exposure to financial and legal risk..
1 Oversee the preparation and revision of contracts that involve the purchase of sale of goods and services. 2  Handle the acquisition, distribution, and store of equipment and supplies. 3  Dispose of unclaimed property. 4  Oversee proposal planning and administration of contracts. Primary responsibilities. 1  Oversee the preparation and revision of contracts that involve the purchase of sale of goods and services. 2  Handle the acquisition, distribution, and store of equipment and supplies.
Read More... A contract administrator oversee the specific mandates in a contract and make sure that all parties involved fulfill obligations to which they agreed. The contract administrator must know the ins and outs of a contract and ensure all sides adhere to its specific terms, conditions, rights, and obligations. It is also the administrator's responsibility to coordinate any changes that may transpire, and to make sure that those changes are agreed upon by all involved.