A stipend is a form of payment that is given to people in place of salary or wage. Stipends are often given to people who are participating in an internship, apprenticeship, graduate work, or a fellowship. A stipend is a form of payment that is given to individuals in place of salary or wage. It is generally only intended to cover living expenses, and is often given to people who are participating in an internship, apprenticeship, graduate work, or a fellowship, just to name a few.
noun. The definition of a stipend is a sum of money paid at regular intervals. An example of a stipend is a small sum of money paid to a graduate teaching assistant by the school to cover living expenses. stipend. noun. A fixed and regular payment, such as a salary for services rendered or an allowance. Middle English stipendie, from Old French, from Latin stīpendium, soldier's pay, from *stipipendium: stips, stip- , a small payment + pendere, to weigh, pay; see suspend.
When you are not appointed on salary basis and work under training, you get stipend. Many companies take freshers, train them and for their services the companies pay them stipends which are minimal amount paid for their services. So now you might have got a bit of idea about what is a stipend. Certain companies also pay stipend on less frequent basis than regular paychecks. It can be paid once a month or can be paid as lump sum once. This is why it becomes important for the person to manage money of the stipend accordingly.
DEFINITION of 'Stipend'. A predetermined amount of money that is provided periodically to help offset expenses. Stipends are often provided to those who are ineligible to receive a regular salary in exchange for the duties they perform, such as interns. A stipend is generally lower than a salary would be, but the recipient is at the same time able to gain experience and knowledge in a specific field.
A stipend is a fixed sum of money and its primary purpose is to cover expenses. Taxes are generally not withheld from stipend payments, but the payee is responsible for reporting his stipend payments to the IRS. There is also a form of compensation called a stipend that is less common than hourly or salary pay as stipends are only paid in select situations.
By Penny Loretto. Definition: A stipend is payment made to students for work completed but it is not necessarily based on work performed or hours of work. Many stipends are offered to students who are completing an internship or apprenticeship and used to help defray the costs of housing, food, and transportation. A stipend is a fixed sum of money that is paid periodically and usually agreed upon at the beginning of a work agreement. 
Stipends are usually lower than what would be expected as a permanent salary for similar work. This is because the stipend is complemented by other benefits such as accreditation, instruction, food, and/or accommodation. Universities usually refer to money paid to graduate students as a stipend, rather than as wages, to reflect complementary benefits. Stipend has a specific, different, use in the Church of England, meaning the salary of a stipendiary minister, one who receives payment directly from the diocese (as opposed to other forms of disbursement such as free use of a house in return for clerical duties, known as house-for-duty).
A stipend is a form of salary, such as for an internship or apprenticeship. Stipend has a specific, different, use in the Church of England, meaning the salary of a stipendiary minister, one who receives payment directly from the diocese (as opposed to other forms of disbursement such as free use of a house in return for clerical duties, known as house-for-duty).
Stipend Law & Legal Definition. A stipend is a fixed sum of money paid periodically for services or to defray expenses. The fact that remuneration is termed a fee or stipend rather than salary or wages is immaterial. Wages are generally subject to employment taxes. Payment of stipends is made according to the policies of the governing entity.