The Greek chorus continued to play an important role in classical Greek drama, especially in tragedy. Ranging in number from 50 in the time of Thespis to 15 in later classical Greek drama, the chorus consisted of Athenian citizens and were not professional actors.
Report Abuse. Greek tragedy was a didactic form of theatre, i.e. it taught and as has been said the teaching was often against hubris or pride. The other purpose for the theatre was with regards to celebrating the feasts of the gods and formed part of a more ritualised theatre (look at the feast of Dionysus etc).
by Mark Cartwright. Greek tragedy was a popular and influential form of drama performed in theatres across ancient Greece from the late 6th century BCE. The most famous playwrights of the genre were Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides and many of their works were still performed centuries after their initial premiere. Greek tragedy led to Greek comedy and, together, these genres formed the foundation upon which all modern theatre is based.
Best Answer: The main themes of Greek tragedy were warnings that uncontrolled power corrupted. Hubris, or excessive pride, was the main failing of the tragic heroes. The purpose was to bring the entire person of an audience member to a holistic catharis, a spiritual awakening, that would help them be fuller, more useful and responsibile citizens.
Greek statuette. Two strolling actors with comedy masks in the Louvre, Paris. The Ancient Greeks took their entertainment very seriously and used drama as a way of investigating the world they lived in, and what it meant to be human. The three genres of drama were comedy, satyr plays, and most important of all, tragedy. Comedy: The first comedies were mainly satirical and mocked men in power for their vanity and foolishness. The first master of comedy was the playwright Aristophanes.
In the Roman world, tragedy plays were translated and imitated in Latin, and the genre gave rise to a new art form from the 1st century BCE, pantomime, which drew inspiration from the presentation and subject matter of Greek tragedy.