Pay-as-you-go Landscaping. Sustainable Landscape Rebates. A landscaping project can cost anywhere from $5,000 to over $100,000. When deciding on a budget keep in mind that investing in professional landscaping will greatly add to the value of your home. A general rule of thumb is to spend 10% of your home's value on landscaping
$0.49. $0.88. Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Grade Landscaping! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Landscape Grading project. For a basic 500 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Grade Landscaping ranges between $0.49 - $0.88 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased
Landscaping Cost Calculator. Use the handy landscape calculator below to estimate how much your landscaping will cost using a professional landscaping company in Calgary. Landscaping costs can vary in Calgary and this is not meant to be exact, it will however, provide you with a very good idea of what to expect to pay for landscaping in Calgary. Have a look at our What will landscaping cost page to learn more about landscaping prices in Calgary. How to complete the following form. Fill in the correct square footage or linear footage of each landscaping component that you want an estimate for. The totals of each landscaping component will displayed on the right.
What should be included: Additional costs: 1  A landscape plan can range from a concept design providing various ideas about what to do with the property, to master plan drawings showing a specific vision for the site, to a detailed construction plan that the homeowner or a contractor can use to create the entire project. 1 Computer software programs can help you create your own detailed landscaping plan. 2  Better Homes and Gardens offers a variety of software solutions at prices ranging from $60-$500, while Your Complete Landscape and Garden Designer by Valusoft retails for $20.
Improves property value: A good xeriscape can raise property values, offsetting the cost of installation. Depending on the size and location of the project, it can cost anywhere from $300-$2,500 to have a landscape designer create a detailed plan for your property. For simpler projects, it's also possible to get one to two hours of on-site verbal consultation for $50-$100 an hour. 
Average Costs. Nationally, the average price paid to a landscape designer is about $5,200. The range for most homeowners is between $4,200 and $6,200, but keep in mind that fees can vary considerably. The most in-depth projects may cost more than $10,000 to plan due to the significant number of variables at play
1 A landscape plan can range from a concept design providing various ideas about what to do with the property, to master plan drawings showing a specific vision for the site, to a detailed construction plan that the homeowner or a contractor can use to create the entire project. 1 Computer software programs can help you create your own detailed landscaping plan. 2  Better Homes and Gardens offers a variety of software solutions at prices ranging from $60-$500, while Your Complete Landscape and Garden Designer by Valusoft retails for $20.
Landscape Design Cost. 1  Depending on the size and location of the project, it can cost anywhere from $300-$2,500 to have a landscape designer create a detailed plan for your property. 1 Computer software programs can help you create your own detailed landscaping plan. 2  Better Homes and Gardens offers a variety of software solutions at prices ranging from $60-$500, while Your Complete Landscape and Garden Designer by Valusoft retails for $20.