3McCallum [4] causality between money supply and the deficit and thatconsiders the possible theoreticalvalidity of the following over the long run both the deficit and money supplymonetarist hypothesis: that a constant, positive ‘Granger cause’ inflation. Sargent and Walace [1]between Budget deficit, Money supply and Inflation is a maintain that financing government budget deficit byuniversal phenomenon and it is peculiar to every money creation cause higher
For this purpose, we estimated the relationship between the rate of inflation, money growth, growth in real income, and growth in velocity in Pakistan in the 1960–2005 period. The results from the correlation analysis indicate that there is strong relationship between the money growth and inflation. We tested this hypothesis that inflation and money growth relative to real income are proportional. The results presented in the following equation indicate that there is one to one relationship between the inflation and money growth relative to real income in Pakistan.
Lazano (2008) analyzed the evidence of causal long run relationship between budget deficit, money growth and inflation in Columbia considering the standard (M1), the narrowest (M0) base and the broadest (M3) definition of money supply. Mohammed and Ahmed (1995) studied money supply, budget deficit and inflation in Pakistan based on the monetary quantity theory approach to inflation and came out with the findings that suggest that the domestic financing of budget deficit, particularly from the banking sector is inflationary in the long run.
The relationship between the inflation and the growth in velocity has important policy implication. If growth in the velocity is relatively unimportant then it indicates that inflation and growth in nominal quantity of money supply relative to real income are proportional. We tested this hypothesis that inflation and money growth relative to real income are proportional. The results presented in the following equation indicate that there is one to one relationship between the inflation and money growth relative to real income in Pakistan.
The macroeconomic variables namely: money supply, income velocity of circulation, real effective exchange rate and real income of the economy are the main affect of inflation. The objective of the study was to investigate the impact of real effective exchange rate on inflation in Pakistan. The time series data of real GDP, nominal GDP, real effective exchange rate, prices and money supply for the period of 1973 to 2007 was used in the study. It was concluded that the real effective exchange rate has impact upon inflation in Pakistan. The required econometric model was specified in the logarithmic form. The relationship between inflation and real effective exchange rate in Pakistan was determined by the ordinary least square (OLS) method. The estimated coefficient between inflation and real effective exchange rate was 0.01 and was not significant.
On the other hand Keynesian propose that increase in money supply does not influence prices in the short run but take a certain lag to have its affect on prices. Our particular objective of this paper is to analyse the short run and long run dynamics of inflation to changes in money supply. Her study for the period of 1960-78 indicated that money supply (M1), the degree of openness of trade, expected prices and growth rate of GNP also play a significant role in determining inflation in Pakistan. As indicated this study meant for the period 1960-78 and hence is outdated.
(Pakistan Economic Survey 2008-09). This study will be an attempt to address the issue whether the inflation in Pakistan is related to changes in money supply or if there is long run relationship between inflation and money supply. Her study for the period of 1960-78 indicated that money supply (M1), the degree of openness of trade, expected prices and growth rate of GNP also play a significant role in determining inflation in Pakistan. As indicated this study meant for the period 1960-78 and hence is outdated.
The result of one to one relationship between the growth rate of money supply and the rate of inflation is consistent with the other studies such as McCandless and Weber (1995), Rolnick and Weber (1994) and Lucus (1980), among others. We tested this hypothesis that inflation and money growth relative to real income are proportional. The results presented in the following equation indicate that there is one to one relationship between the inflation and money growth relative to real income in Pakistan.
On the other hand, interest rate, money supply and inflation accounted for 4.2%, 47.9% and 13.4% respectively for the variance in budget deficit in Nigeria. This suggests that money supply and inflation rate seem to be the driving force behind budget deficit variance. Mohammed and Ahmed (1995) studied money supply, budget deficit and inflation in Pakistan based on the monetary quantity theory approach to inflation and came out with the findings that suggest that the domestic financing of budget deficit, particularly from the banking sector is inflationary in the long run.
As a result changes in real income do not affect the price level but there is proportional relationship between the price level and the nominal quantity of money relative to real income [Dwyer and Hafer (1999)]. We tested this hypothesis that inflation and money growth relative to real income are proportional. The results presented in the following equation indicate that there is one to one relationship between the inflation and money growth relative to real income in Pakistan.