Getting to Know Hooch Better. The dog that played Hooch was a Dogue de Bordeaux called Beasley. He was born in 1978 in Peter Curley’s TNT kennels in Merrimac, Wisconsin. He was later purchased along with other three dogs, Barry, Vigor and Cristo, for the production of the Turner and Hooch movie
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Beasley the Dog, born in 1978 (d. 1992), was an acting animal and starred in the Tom Hanks movie Turner & Hooch as the dog Hooch. He was a Dogue de Bordeaux (French Mastiff), and this was his first and only movie. He played the house-wrecking police dog who drank beer. Beasley was owned and trained by Clint Rowe who makes a brief appearance in the film as an ASPCA officer. Source(s): http://www.answers.com/main/ntquery;jses... 
Dogue de Bordeaux. This dog breed 's most famous member co-starred with Tom Hanks in the 1989 movie, Turner and Hooch. Loyal, self-assured, and territorial, the Dogue de Bordeaux requires lots of training and socialization. The Dogue de Bordeaux first came to the attention of the American public with the 1989 release of the Tom Hanks movie Turner and Hooch and has gained popularity ever since. A devoted and affectionate family dog, he has a reputation for being sweet and docile, but he can also be stubborn and arrogant.
Beasley was an acting dog who starred in the 1989 Tom Hanks movie Turner & Hooch as the dog Hooch. He was a Dogue de Bordeaux. Turner & Hooch is Beasley's only film credit. He was owned and trained by Clint Rowe who makes a brief appearance in the film Turner and Hooch as an ASPCA officer. 
The Dogue de Bordeaux was known in France as early as the fourteenth century, particularly in southern France in the region around Bordeaux. Hence, the city lent its name to this large dog. A uniform breed type of the Bordeaux Dog did not exist before about 1920. 
Turner and Hooch Dog Breed, 7.0 out of 10 based on 5 ratings. In 1989, Tom Hanks along with Craig T. Nelson, Mare Winningham, and Reginald Vel Johnson starred in a movie called Turner and Hooch. When first bred, the Turner and Hooch dog breed was used for hunting, herding, and protection, being trained specifically to hunt boars but also to be used as bait for jaguars, bears, and bulls.
Turner & Hooch is a 1989 American comedy-thriller film starring Tom Hanks and Beasley the Dog as the eponymous characters, Turner and Hooch respectively. The film also co-stars Mare Winningham, Craig T. Nelson and Reginald VelJohnson. A pilot for a Turner & Hooch TV series was made and ran as a part of The Magical World of Disney.