Sitting on top of the outer core, we find the mantle. This layer is by far the thickest layer of Earth, about 1,800 miles thick! It also makes up about 85% of Earth's volume. Like the core, the mantle contains mostly iron, but in the form of silicate rocks. You might be surprised to learn that this rock actually moves like a fluid, similar to how silly putty moves.
The interior structure of the Earth is layered in spherical shells, like an onion. These layers can be defined by either their chemical or their rheological properties. Earth has an outer silicate solid crust, a highly viscous mantle, a liquid outer core that is much less viscous than the mantle, and a solid inner core. 
] layers: inner core, outer core, mantle [mantle: A zone of hot rock in the interior of the Earth, located between the outer crust and the molten core. ] and crust [crust: The outer layer of the Earth, on top of the mantle. It is between 6 and 48 kilometres thick and includes the continents and the ocean floor. ] . The Earth is made up of four distinct layers: 1  The inner core is in the centre and is the hottest part of the Earth. 2  The outer core is the layer surrounding the inner core. 3  The mantle is the widest section of the Earth. 4  The crust is the outer layer of the earth.
The layers of the earth are the Crust, Mantle, Outer Core and the Inner Core. There is also a lithosphere in the mantle 100km below the Earth's Crust (top layer). Crust 0-40km … below the surface Lithosphere 40-100km below the surface Mantle 40-2800km below the surface Outer Core 2800-5200km below the suface Inner Core 5200-6400km below the surface. 4 people found this useful. Humans live on the layer of the Earth called the crust. It is the top most layer of the Earth, which is made up of 4 layers. The inner core, outer core, mantel and, finally th … e crust. + 70 others
The upper part of the mantle called the asthenosphere is the layer on which the earth's lithosphere (crust plus uppermost rigid mantle) rides.This soft layer serves as support … for the crust to float and move over time due to its partial suspension. 5 people found this useful. Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. the term crust is suitable for the layer of the earth we live on because it is the rocks that cooled from the outer core under it.
1 The mantle is made up of semi-molten rock called magma. 2  In the upper parts of the mantle the rock is hard, but lower down the rock is soft and beginning to melt. 3  The crust is the outer layer of the earth. 4  It is a thin layer between 0-60 km thick. 5  The crust is the solid rock layer upon which we live. The Earth is made up of four distinct layers: 1  The inner core is in the centre and is the hottest part of the Earth. 2  The outer core is the layer surrounding the inner core. 3  The mantle is the widest section of the Earth. 4
The interior of Earth, similar to the other terrestrial planets, is chemically divided into layers. The mantle is a layer between the crust and the outer core. Earth's mantle is a silicate rocky shell with an average thickness of 2,886 kilometres (1,793 mi). The mantle makes up about 84% of Earth's volume. It is predominantly solid but in geological time it behaves as a very viscous fluid. The mantle lies between the core below and the crust above. The terrestrial planets (Earth, Venus, Mars and Mercury), Earth's Moon, two of Jupiter 's moons (Io and Europa) and the asteroid Vesta each have a mantle made of silicate rock.
The Crust The Earth's Crust is like the skin of an apple. It is very thin in comparison to the other three layers. The crust is only about 3-5 miles (8 kilometers) thick under the oceans (oceanic crust) and about 25 miles (32 kilometers) thick under the continents (continental crust). It is the largest layer of the Earth, 1800 miles thick. The mantle is composed of very hot, dense rock. This layer of rock even flows like asphalt under a heavy weight. This flow is due to great temperature differences from the bottom to the top of the mantle.
The Earth's crust is an extremely thin layer of rock, like the skin of an apple in relative terms. It amounts to less than half of 1 percent of the planet. But the crust is exceptionally important, and not just because we live on it. The crust can be thicker than 80 kilometers in some spots, less than one kilometer in others. Underneath it is the mantle, a layer of rock some 2700 kilometers thick that accounts for the bulk of the Earth. The crust is primarily made of granite and basalt while the mantle beneath is made of peridotite. 