1 Revise the Package Insert and the Patient Product Information sheet for the refrigerator-stable and frozen formulations to include “varicella (vaccine strain)”. 2  September 29, 2011 Approval Letter-Varivax. 3  To extend the storage time for the Frozen Formulation from 3 days to 8 days when stored at 2°C to 8°C. 1 June 3, 2009 Approval Letter-Varivax. 2  To include use of a Patient Package Insert. 3  October 30, 2008 Approval Letter-Varivax. 4  To remove the phrase “(Oka/Merck)” from the generic name on the product carton and container labeling, and from the package insert.
The first dose is usually administered at 12 to 15 months of age but may be given anytime through 12 years of age. If a second dose of measles, mumps, rubella, and varicella vaccine is needed, ProQuad may be used. 7.5 Use With Other Vaccines At least 1 month should elapse between a dose of a measles-containing vaccine such as M-M-R II and a dose of ProQuad, and at least 3 months should elapse between administration of 2 doses of ProQuad or varicella-containing vaccines.
Avoid use of salicylates (aspirin) or salicylate-containing products in children and adolescents 12 months through 17 years of age for six weeks following vaccination with VARIVAX because of the association of Reye syndrome with aspirin therapy and wild-type varicella infection. 4.1 Severe Allergic Reaction. Do not administer VARIVAX to individuals with a history of anaphylactic or severe allergic reaction to any component of the vaccine (including neomycin and gelatin) or to a previous dose of a varicella-containing vaccine.
Adolescents (≥ 13 years of age) and Adults Two doses of vaccine, to be administered with a minimum interval of 4 weeks between doses [see Clinical Studies (14.1)] . 2.2 Reconstitution Instructions When reconstituting the vaccine, use only the sterile diluent supplied with VARIVAX.  Provide a copy of the patient information (PPI) located at the end of this insert and discuss any questions or concerns.  Inform patient, parent, or guardian that vaccination with VARIVAX may not result in protection of all healthy, susceptible children, adolescents, and adults.
These recommendations represent the first statement by the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) on the use of live, attenuated varicella virus vaccine -- VARIVAX -- manufactured by Merck and Company, Inc. and licensed in March 1995 for use in healthy persons greater than or equal to 12 months of age. Because natural VZV infection can be severe in older adolescents and adults, varicella immunity is desirable in these age groups. Persons greater than or equal to 13 years of age should be administered two 0.5-mL doses of vaccine, subcutaneously, 4-8 weeks apart.
Transmission of vaccine virus from a mother who did not develop a varicella-like rash to her newborn infant has also been reported. Herpes Zoster Overall, 9454 healthy children (12 months to 12 years of age) and 1648 adolescents and adults (13 years of age and older) have been vaccinated with VARIVAX in clinical trials.  Provide a copy of the patient information (PPI) located at the end of this insert and discuss any questions or concerns.  Inform patient, parent, or guardian that vaccination with VARIVAX may not result in protection of all healthy, susceptible children, adolescents, and adults.
1 To remove the phrase “(Oka/Merck)” from the generic name on the product carton and container labeling, and from the package insert. 2  April 5, 2005 Approval Letter-Varivax. 3  New Indication: Optional second dose for children 12 months to 12 years of age. 1 June 3, 2009 Approval Letter-Varivax. 2  To include use of a Patient Package Insert. 3  October 30, 2008 Approval Letter-Varivax. 4 
This website is supported in part by a cooperative agreement from the National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (Grant No. 5U38IP000290) at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in Atlanta, GA. 
----------------------------INDICATIONS AND USAGE---------------------------- VARIVAX is a vaccine indicated for active immunization for the prevention of varicella in individuals 12 months of age and older. Nine hundred eighty-one (981) subjects in a clinical trial received 2 doses of VARIVAX 3 months apart. and were actively followed for 42 days after each dose. The 2dose regimen of varicella vaccine had a -. safety profile comparable to that of the 1dose regimen.
VARIVAX® Varicella Virus Vaccine Live Suspension for subcutaneous injection Initial U.S. Approval: 1995 ----------------------------INDICATOI NS AND USAGE---------------------------- VARIVAX is a vaccine indicated for active immunization for the prevention of varicella in individuals 12 months of age and older.  Provide a copy of the patient information (PPI) located at the end of this insert and discuss any questions or concerns.  Inform patient, parent, or guardian that vaccination with VARIVAX may not result in protection of all healthy, susceptible children, adolescents, and adults.