The word sati, which we translate ‘mindfulness’, means ‘memory’, and was originally used by Brahmans in the sense of memorized Vedic scriptures. To effectively recall large bodies of text, you get into a zone of clarity and presence, free of distractions. Satipatthana is the ‘contemplation’ (anupassana) of body, feelings, mind, and principles (dhammas). ‘Anupassana’ means ‘sustained watching’. It is an awareness that stays on one thing and doesn’t jump from object to object.
Mindfulness as a practice is described as:  1 Mindfulness is a way of paying attention that originated in Eastern meditation practices.  2 Paying attention in a particular way: on purpose, in the present moment, and nonjudgmentally.  3 Bringing one’s complete attention to the present experience on a moment-to-moment basis. A deeper understanding of the concept of mindfulness can be obtained by probing into in-depth teachings of Buddhism. For example, the Five-Aggregate Model of the Mind enables one to understand: 1. the moment-to-moment manifestation of subjective conscious experience from a first-person perspective.
By Armen Hareyan G+. 2004-11-01 15:43. Dreams come from your soul and are intended to help you progress along your life path. In sleep the focus of the physical world and the body is on hold and during this period your soul has a perfect opportunity to dialogue with your conscious mind... or so it would appear. The problem here is that the subconscious never sleeps.
(Return to Info Main Page) Where does the word Beat Come from? The word Beat originally derived from circus and carnival argot, reflecting the straitened circumstances of nomadic carnies. In the drug world, beat meant robbed or cheated (as in a beat deal). 
The Ancient Meaning of Mindfulness “Mindfulness,” as used in ancient texts, is an English translation of the Pali word, sati, which connotes awareness, attention, and remembering. (Pali is the language in which the teachings of the Buddha were originally recorded. The next is consciousness, or the act of becoming aware of an object by means of one of the six sense organs (again with the mind as the sixth organ). At this stage the eye sees, the ear hears, the tongue tastes, etc. The third and fourth systems, which shape how consciousness manifests, are perception and feeling.
Mindfulness is a state of active, open attention on the present. When you're mindful, you observe your thoughts and feelings from a distance, without judging them good or bad. Instead of letting your life pass you by, mindfulness means living in the moment and awakening to experience.
The English term mindfulness already existed before it came to be used in a (western) Buddhist context. It was first recorded as myndfulness in 1530 (John Palsgrave translates French pensee), pensée as mindfulnesse in, 1561 and mindfulness in. 1817 A deeper understanding of the concept of mindfulness can be obtained by probing into in-depth teachings of Buddhism. For example, the Five-Aggregate Model of the Mind enables one to understand: 1. the moment-to-moment manifestation of subjective conscious experience from a first-person perspective.
The term mindfulness is derived from the Pali-term sati which is an essential element of Buddhist practice, including vipassana, satipaṭṭhāna and anapanasati. A deeper understanding of the concept of mindfulness can be obtained by probing into in-depth teachings of Buddhism. For example, the Five-Aggregate Model of the Mind enables one to understand: 1. the moment-to-moment manifestation of subjective conscious experience from a first-person perspective.
The foundation of his project is breaking down our idea of a word into its component parts: the concept and the sound-image. Let’s do an experiment. First, picture a tree. It can be a tree you’ve climbed or a generic tree you’ve invented in your head. In his book A Course in General Linguistics (the ground-breaking tome that this is coming from) , Saussure replaces the term “concept” with “signified” (referring to that which is signified, i.e. the image of the tree) and “sound-image” with “signifier” (that which does the signifying, i.e. the written/spoken “tree”).