With the advent of the Second Republic in 1848, Bourbon monarchy in France ended. T he Bourbon pretender to the throne of France, the Comte de Chambord, was offered a restored throne following the collapse of the empire of Emperor Napoleon III in 1870. The Bourbons lost the throne of France for a first time in 1792 and finally in 1830 after a sixteen-year restoration. The Dukes of Orleans, are, since the 17th century, also a branch of the Bourbon royal line. O ther royal lines are descended from the French Bourbon dynasty.
King Louis XVI of the House of Bourbon was overthrown and executed during the French Revolution (1789–1799), which in turn was followed by Napoleon as ruler of France. During the restoration, the new Bourbon regime was a constitutional monarchy, unlike the absolutist Ancien Regime, régime and so it had some limits on its. Power the period was characterized by a sharp conservative, reaction and consequent minor but consistent occurrences of civil unrest and. disturbances
A coalition of European powers defeated Napoleon in the War of the Sixth Coalition, ended the First Empire in 1814, and restored the monarchy to the brothers of Louis XVI. The Bourbon Restoration existed from (about) 6 April 1814 until the popular uprisings of the July Revolution of 1830. There was an interlude in spring 1815—the  Hundred Days —when the return of Napoleon forced the Bourbons to flee France. During the restoration, the new Bourbon regime was a constitutional monarchy, unlike the absolutist Ancien Regime, régime and so it had some limits on its. Power the period was characterized by a sharp conservative, reaction and consequent minor but consistent occurrences of civil unrest and. disturbances
Therefore, this essay will first concentrate on the sense in which the Bourbon monarchy can be said to have failed between 1814 and 1830, before progressing to deal with the reasons for this failure. 
Therefore, this essay allow first concentrate on the sense in which the Bourbon monarchy can be said to have failed among 1814 and 1830, before progressing to thr star with the reasons for this failure. Furthermore, between 1814 and 1830 France was to a largely rehabilitated as a Great Power, and the composition of cut influence in North Africa had began.
Upon the fall of the French Empire, Ferdinand I was restored to the throne of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies in 1815, founding the House of Bourbon-Two Sicilies. His subjects revolted in 1820 and he was forced to grant a constitution; Austria invaded in March 1821 and revoked the constitution. Bourbon kings first ruled Navarre and France in the 16th century. By the 18th century, members of the Bourbon dynasty also held thrones in Spain, Naples, Sicily, and Parma. Spain and Luxembourg currently have Bourbon monarchs.
In April 1814, the Armies of the Sixth Coalition restored to the throne of France Louis XVIII, called the Bourbon pretender by historiographers, especially by those unfavorable to the restoration of the monarchy. A constitution, the Charter of 1814, was drafted. During the restoration, the new Bourbon regime was a constitutional monarchy, unlike the absolutist Ancien Regime, régime and so it had some limits on its. Power the period was characterized by a sharp conservative, reaction and consequent minor but consistent occurrences of civil unrest and. disturbances
The revolution resulted, among other things, in the overthrow of the Bourbon monarchy in France and in the establishment of the First Republic. The advocates of fiscal, social, and governmental reform became increasingly vocal during the reign of Louis XVI. In August 1774, Louis appointed a liberal comptroller general, the economist Anne Robert Jacques Turgot, Baron de L'Aulne, who instituted a policy of strict economy in government expenditures.
The House of Bourbon (English /ˈbɔrbən/ ; [buʁˈbɔ̃]) is a European royal house of French origin, a branch of the Capetian dynasty (/kəˈpiːʃⁱən/). Bourbon kings first ruled Navarre and France in the 16th century. By the 18th century, members of the Bourbon dynasty also held thrones in Spain, Naples, Sicily, and Parma. Spain and Luxembourg currently have Bourbon monarchs.