Cocoa beans are the seeds found in cocoa pods, which grow on trees often found in Africa, and Central and South America. These beans are fermented, dried, crushed, processed a … nd manufactured into chocolate.     Chocolate production begins with the harvesting of the pods of the cacao tree (Theobroma cacao). 
Mulch-Cocoa bean shells can be used an organic mulch and soil conditioner for the garden. Once the beans have been fermented and dried, they can be processed to produce a variety of products. These products include: Cocoa butter-Cocoa butter is used in the manufacture of chocolate. It is also widely used in cosmetic products such as moisturising creams and soaps. Animal feed from cocoa husk-As pelletised dry 100% cocoa pod husk, it can be used as an animal feed. The animal feed is produced by first slicing the fresh cocoa husks into small flakes and then partially drying the flakes, followed by mincing and pelleting and drying of the pellets.
The cocoa bean, also cacao bean or simply cocoa (/ˈkoʊ.koʊ/) or cacao (/kəˈkaʊ/), is the dried and fully fermented fatty seed of Theobroma cacao, from which cocoa solids and cocoa butter are extracted. They are the basis of chocolate, as well as many Mesoamerican foods such as mole sauce and tejate. A typical pod contains 20 to 50 beans and about 400 dried beans are required to make one pound-or 880 per kilogram-of chocolate. Cocoa pods weigh an average of 400 grams (0.88 lb) and each one yields 35 to 40 grams (1.2 to 1.4 oz) dried beans (this yield is 40–44% of the total weight in the pod).
Cocoa beans come from cocoa pods, which are found naturally in jungle biomes. Placing a cocoa bean on the side of jungle wood will plant a new cocoa pod. (The log does not need to be attached to a tree). Cocoa has three stages of growth. During its first, the pod is small and green. 
1 From there, cacao beans can be processed a few different ways. 2  Cacao butter is the fattiest part of the fruit and makes up the outer lining of the inside of a single cacao bean. 3  It is white in color and has a rich, buttery texture that resembles white chocolate in taste and appearance. 1 Cacao nibs contain all of the fiber, fat, and nutrients that the cacao bean does. 2  Cacao paste comes from cacao nibs that have been slowly heated to preserve the nutrients and are melted into a bark known that is a less-processed form of dark chocolate bars.
Cacao beans, better known as cocoa beans, first appeared in the Amazon basin, and grow only in moist, warm and shady climates. Cocoa beans are primarily grown in Africa, Asia and, Central and South America. Cacao beans are produced by the plant Theobroma cacao, which translated, means food of the Gods. That is a good name for them, given the numerous health benefits provided by them. 
Theobroma cacao also cacao tree and cocoa tree, is a small (4–8 m (13–26 ft) tall) evergreen tree in the family Malvaceae, native to the deep tropical regions of Central and South America. Its seeds, cocoa beans, are used to make cocoa mass, cocoa powder, and chocolate. The most prized, rare, and expensive is the Criollo group, the cocoa bean used by the Maya. Only 10% of chocolate is made from Criollo, which is less bitter and more aromatic than any other bean. The cacao bean in 80% of chocolate is made using beans of the Forastero group.
Cocoa beans are the seeds found in cocoa pods, which grow on trees often found in Africa, and Central and South America. These beans are fermented, dried, crushed, processed a … nd manufactured into chocolate.     Chocolate production begins with the harvesting of the pods of the cacao tree (Theobroma cacao). 