These changing quantities are called variables. A variable is any factor, trait, or condition that can exist in differing amounts or types. An experiment usually has three kinds of variables: independent, dependent, and controlled. The independent variable is the one that is changed by the scientist. To ensure a fair test, a good experiment has only one independent variable.
The dependent variable is the variable that you measure or observe. The dependent variable gets its name because it is the factor that is dependent on the state of the independent variable. Example: In the experiment measuring the effect of temperature on solubility, solubility would be the dependent variable.
The two broad types of variables in scientific experimentation are dependent and independent variables. Independent variables are variables (ideally only one or very few) th … at the experimenter manipulates in the experiment. The experimenter is changing the temperature between the groups of plants, so the temperature would be the independent variable. The dependent variables are the effects the independent variable has on the experimental subjects.
In this lesson, you will learn the definition of variables in science. In addition, you will be able to define the specific types of variables in an experiment. Let's use an example that may assist you to understand these two types of variables. You have a plastic container with water inside. You place the container in a metal box and raise the temperature.
In science, a variable is any item, factor, or condition that can be controlled or changed. There are three types of variables in scientific experiments, but we will define them later in the lesson. First, let's discuss why scientists use experiments. Let's use an example that may assist you to understand these two types of variables. You have a plastic container with water inside. You place the container in a metal box and raise the temperature.
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. A variable is any factor that can be changed or controlled. In math, a variable is a quantity that can assume any value from a set of values. A scientific variable is a little more complicated, plus there are different types of scientific variables. Scientific variables are associated with the scientific method. Variables are things which are controlled and measured as part of a scientific experiment. There are three main types of variables: Controlled Variables. As the name implies, controlled variables are factor which are controlled or held constant throughout an investigation.
What you measure is the dependent variable(the variables that change due to the change in independent variable) eg mass of the plant each day or week, number of leaves or height. All other variables are called the control variables(variables that are constant throughout the experiment). The experimenter is changing the temperature between the groups of plants, so the temperature would be the independent variable. The dependent variables are the effects the independent variable has on the experimental subjects.
Types of Variables. Now, let's talk about those three types of variables used in scientific experiments. The first variable type is called the independent variable. This variable is the one that is manipulated or changed by the scientist. Let's use an example that may assist you to understand these two types of variables. You have a plastic container with water inside. You place the container in a metal box and raise the temperature.
For example, if you open a faucet (the independent variable), the quantity of water flowing (dependent variable) changes in response--you observe that the water flow increases. The number of dependent variables in an experiment varies, but there is often more than one. Experiments also have controlled variables. An experiment usually has three kinds of variables: independent, dependent, and controlled. The independent variable is the one that is changed by the scientist. To ensure a fair test, a good experiment has only one independent variable.