For decades we’ve been warned that eating saturated fat, the type found in meat, cheese, and other dairy foods, can lead to heart disease. Instead, we've been told to choose healthy fats from nuts, seeds, fish, and vegetable oils. New research questions that belief. Be smart about the saturated fats in your diet. “Countless studies show that if you replace saturated fat with polyunsaturated fat, you do get a reduction in heart disease risk,” says Alice Lichtenstein, professor of nutrition science and policy at Tufts University in Boston.
Knowing which fats raise LDL cholesterol and which ones don't is the first step in lowering your risk of heart disease and stroke. Your body naturally produces LDL cholesterol. Eating saturated fat,and trans fat raises your blood cholesterol level even further. 
1 Polyunsaturated fat. 2  This is a type of fat found mostly in plant-based foods and oils. 3  Evidence shows that eating foods rich in polyunsaturated fats (PUFAs) improves blood cholesterol levels, which can decrease your risk of heart disease. 4  PUFAs may also help decrease the risk of type 2 diabetes. 5  Omega-3 fatty acids. Some fats are found in foods from plants and animals and are known as dietary fat. Dietary fat is a macronutrient that provides energy for your body. Fat is essential to your health because it supports a number of your body's functions. Some vitamins, for instance, must have fat to dissolve and nourish
Importance of Good Fats. Just because you need to limit saturated and trans fats does not mean you need to follow a diet completely devoid of fat. Your total daily intake of fat from all sources should be between 20 and 35 percent of your total daily calories. Not only do they raise your LDL cholesterol, but they also lower your HDL, or “good,” cholesterol. They can increase inflammation in your body as well, which is associated with an increased risk of heart disease, diabetes and stroke.
Saturated and trans fats raise LDL (or bad) cholesterol levels in the blood, thereby increasing the risk of heart disease. Dietary cholesterol also contributes to heart disease. Unsaturated fats, such as monounsaturated and polyunsaturated, do not raise LDL cholesterol and are beneficial when consumed in moderation. Saturated fat and cholesterol, however, do have a %DV. To choose foods low in saturated fat and cholesterol, use the Quick Guide to %DV. The general rule of thumb is: 5%DV or less is low and 20%DV or more is high.
Processed meat is a common source of saturated fat. Photo Credit Brand X Pictures/Brand X Pictures/Getty Images. Fats are essential to your diet because they have several important functions such as providing your body with energy and contributing to bodily processes like the digestion of vitamins. Not only do they raise your LDL cholesterol, but they also lower your HDL, or “good,” cholesterol. They can increase inflammation in your body as well, which is associated with an increased risk of heart disease, diabetes and stroke.
A fat is made of two kinds of smaller molecules: glycerol and fatty acids. Fats are made of long chains of carbon (C) atoms. Some carbons are linked by single bonds (-C-C-) and others are linked by double bonds (-C=C-). A saturated fat is a fat in which the fatty acids all have single bonds. Double bonds can react with hydrogen to form single bonds. They are called saturated, because the second bond is broken up and each half of the bond is attached to (saturated with) a hydrogen atom. Most animal fats are saturated
Trans fats are even worse for your cholesterol levels than saturated fats. Not only do they raise your LDL cholesterol, but they also lower your HDL, or “good,” cholesterol. They can increase inflammation in your body as well, which is associated with an increased risk of heart disease, diabetes and stroke. Your daily intake of trans fats should be 2 grams or less and preferably zero
This is when hydrogen is added to an unsaturated fat to make it saturated. However, the chemical structure is in the trans configuration, rather than the cis which is natural to our body. Trans fats are terrible and I am sure you can find a wealth of information on why. So please do not confuse ALL vegetable oils as bad. Olive oil, flax oil, fish oil are all great for you.
1 For example, base saturation refers to the fraction of exchangeable cations that are base cations. 2  Similarly, in environmental soil science, nitrogen saturation means that an ecosystem, such as a soil, cannot store any more nitrogen. 3  In organic chemistry, a saturated compound has no double or triple bonds. 1 In physical chemistry, saturation is the point at which a solution of a substance can dissolve no more of that substance and additional amounts of it will appear as a separate phase (as a precipitate if solid or as effervescence or inclusion if gaseous).