Simply use a sheet of foil and create a tent over the salmon. I cook fillets at 275F in the oven or on the grill skin side down until internal temp is 135-140. Just when the fat starts oozing out of the top of the salmon. Doesn't get much better than that. If you are asking the oven temp i would say at 350 F is fine. If you have a meat thermometer, i cook salmon to around 160 F so it is still very moist and not overcooked. Wow....this isn't chicken.
Salmon must always be cooked at about 400° Farenheit for optimal results. Fish cooks fast and must be baked at a high temperature to kill bacteria and cook the flesh evenly. The lowest possible temperature to cook Salmon is 350°, but this may result in a dried fish, unless it is completely wrapped in foil. For optimal baking results, each fillet or steak should be coated with olive oil, margarine or butter and then about 1 teaspoon of lemon juice should be drizzled over it. The best way to cook the thicker fillets is to use 400° as the set temperature and bake the fish for 18-20 minutes. If a lower heat is desired, season the fillet and wrap it in foil, sealing it tightly and bake at 350° for about 25-30 minutes. ● Thin Fillet.
Ideally, start checking the internal temperature a few minutes before the salmon fillet should be done cooking -- this prevents you from overcooking the fish. Once your salmon is cooked, clean the meat thermometer with hot water and soap to prevent cross-contamination. Fortunately, cooking the fillets to an internal temperature of 145 degrees Fahrenheit should eliminate that risk by killing the harmful organisms. But if you undercook your salmon, these organisms might remain intact. When contaminated fish is consumed, it can lead to a variety of food-borne illnesses.
Bake Until Opaque and Flaky. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F for fillets or 350 degrees F for a dressed fish. You can bake the fillets at a lower temperature, if desired, but remember to increase the cooking time. Bake salmon fillets or steaks, uncovered, for 4 to 6 minutes per 1/2-inch thickness. For a dressed salmon, bake for 6 to 9 minutes per 8 ounces of fish. To test for doneness, insert a fork into the salmon and gently twist.
Place the salmon in the roasting pan: Place the salmon in the roasting pan, skin-side down. Transfer to the oven. Roast for 4 to 6 minutes per half-inch thickness of salmon: Roasting time depends on the thickness of your salmon, as determined by the thickest part of the salmon fillet. For every half-inch of salmon, roast 4 to 6 minutes — 4 minutes will give you salmon that is still a touch rare, 6 minutes will thoroughly cook it. Salmon is done when easily flaked: You can also check the doneness of your salmon with a fork. When the salmon flakes easily with a fork, it's ready. Even thick fillets of salmon will cook very quickly so don't wander too far from the oven. Aim for 4 to 6 minutes per half-inch of thickness. Since most fillets are about one inch thick in the thickest part, start checking around 8 minutes.
Safe Temperature. The United States Food and Drug Administration recommends cooking salmon to an internal temperature of 145 degrees Fahrenheit. Push the tip of the meat thermometer gently into the middle of the salmon fillet at its thickest part. Fortunately, cooking the fillets to an internal temperature of 145 degrees Fahrenheit should eliminate that risk by killing the harmful organisms. But if you undercook your salmon, these organisms might remain intact. When contaminated fish is consumed, it can lead to a variety of food-borne illnesses.
Directions. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Season salmon with salt and pepper. Place salmon, skin side down, on a non-stick baking sheet or in a non-stick pan with an oven-proof handle. Bake until salmon is cooked through, about 12 to 15 minutes. Serve with the Toasted Almond Parsley Salad and squash, if desired
I bake salmon all the time. I line my pan with aluminum foil, place the salmon fillet in the pan, put on my favorite seasonings/toppings, seal it up, and bake it in a preheated 400º oven. If the topping is thick, like a mayonnaise topping with onion powder and dill sprinkled over it, my 8 oz piece of salmon takes about 30 minutes to cook