25 Followers. A. Yes, it is safe to take Sudafed with Zyrtec. There are no dangerous interactions between the two medications. Talk to your pharmacist whenever you have questions about medications. He or she can help
2. Get help from a doctor now ›. Yes: You can take them together. Allegra 24 hour is a nonsedating antihistamine and Sudafed PE is a decongestant. This would be similar to taking allegra D. What you do not want to do is take Allegra D with sudafed, then you would get too much decongestant. Also you want to avoid decongestants if you have certain conditions like hypertension. Also don't take the sudafed at bedtime. Took an allegra 24 hr this am, forgot, took another one this pm. 1. Get help from a doctor now ›. Ok: Allegra is a antihistamine. Singulair is a different class if allergy med than Allegra and should not interact. Sudafed is also a different medicine.
Guest. I just saw my Doctor again yesterday. Confirmed again that taking Allegra and Sudafed together are fine. She recommended it. Just don't take the Allegra D and a Sudafed and you are doubling the dosage of recommended PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. It worsens during spring, because allergic rhinitis kicks in and when the symptoms of these two conditions combine, I can hardly wait for the spring to finish. Of all symptoms, strong headaches are giving me the problem, they are especially emphasized when I have to bend or pick up something from the floor.
Before taking fexofenadine and pseudoephedrine, 1  tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to fexofenadine (Allegra), pseudoephedrine (Sudafed, in Dimetapp, in Drixoral, others), any other medications, or any of the ingredients in the tablets. 2  Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. If you are taking fexofenadine and pseudoephedrine 12-hour tablets, you may notice something that looks like a tablet in your stool. This is just the empty tablet shell, and this does not mean that you did not get your complete dose of medication.
A. Yes, it is safe to take Sudafed with Zyrtec. There are no dangerous interactions between the two medications. Talk to your pharmacist whenever you have questions about medications.
Yes: You can take them together. Allegra 24 hour is a nonsedating antihistamine and Sudafed PE is a decongestant. This would be similar to taking allegra D. What you do not want to do is take Allegra D with sudafed, then you would get too much decongestant. Also you want to avoid decongestants if you have certain conditions like hypertension. Also don't take the sudafed at bedtime. ...Read more.