Sales Account Managers bring in $68K after working for 10 to 20 years. Folks who have racked up more than 20 years in the field report incomes that aren't that much higher than less experienced individuals' earnings; the veterans make just $76K on average. 
The average salary of a PetSmart manager is between $60,000 and  $62,000 per year, depending on experience and qualifications. With  bonuses and other benefits, the pay may … be raised to over $71,000  per year. An account manager is usually paid commission on the sales from his/her accounts. Some managers may also get paid a base salary, car allowance, and expenses. The average accou … nt manager should make 75,000+ year.
A Pepsi account manager in Vancouver, Canada makes $45-$60,000 after commission. They also receive a car allowance that is about $350 base + $0.20/km. The pay is decent but th … ey work you like a dog. The average week is 60 hrs and they have no regard for their employees whatsoever. An account manager is usually paid commission on the sales from his/her accounts. Some managers may also get paid a base salary, car allowance, and expenses. The average accou … nt manager should make 75,000+ year.
To make sure these clients continue to do business with the bank, an account manager is assigned to personally handle all of their banking needs. One of the main responsibilities of an account manager is to help clients through the process of securing a loan. Answers. Best Answer: ok Salaries earned by account managers start at a minimum of around $35,000 a year and go up to about $75,000 a year. As they become more experienced and gain seniority, they earn more. The salary range available can vary from bank to bank.
Account Manager Salary. (United States). The average pay for an Account Manager is $50,545 per year. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this field. For the first five to ten years in this position, pay increases sharply, but any additional experience does not have a big effect on pay. The highest paying skills associated with this job are Strategic Sales, Contract Negotiation, Sales Management, and Account Sales. $34,472 - $80,788
Account manager salaries vary widely based on the type of company for which they work. Some work as IT account managers, other as business account managers. An account manager is usually paid commission on the sales from his/her accounts. Some managers may also get paid a base salary, car allowance, and expenses. The average accou … nt manager should make 75,000+ year.
Confidence votes 2. A Pepsi account manager in Vancouver, Canada makes $45-$60,000 after commission. They also receive a car allowance that is about $350 base + $0.20/km. The pay is decent but they work you like a dog. The average week is 60 hrs and they have no regard for their employees whatsoever. There is no such thing as sick days and they expect you to work a minimum of 10 hrs/day and often expect 12 hour days. An account manager is usually paid commission on the sales from his/her accounts. Some managers may also get paid a base salary, car allowance, and expenses. The average accou … nt manager should make 75,000+ year.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Account Management Manager in the United States is $93,900 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Account Management Manager in the United States are expected to make less than $93,900. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $93,900. 1  Salary. The annual salary for someone with the job title Account Management Manager may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education.
An account manager is a person who works for a company and is responsible for the management of sales, and relationships with particular customers. The account manager does not manage the daily running of the account itself. They manage the relationship with the client of the account(s) they are assigned to. The responsibilities of an account manager can vary depending on the industry they work in, size of the company, and nature of the business. For instance, each customer account can vary in demands and an account manager may work with brand managers for one account and a media department for another.