When a driver shifts gears, the encoder motor is triggered to turn to the proper gear position. By using an attached brake, the encoder then locks the chosen gear position into place. If a driver shifts into four-wheel drive, the transfer case commands the encoder to shift to the proper position and lock accordingly. A motor encoder is essential to the functioning of a vehicle's transmission and its four-wheel drive. It consists of a gear-reduction assembly and a permanent magnet motor. 1  How Does an Automobile Differential Work?
An encoder is a sensor of mechanical motion that generates digital signals in response to motion. As an electro-mechanical device, an encoder is able to provide motion control system users with information concerning position, velocity and direction. There are two different types of encoders: linear and rotary. A linear encoder responds to motion along a path, while a rotary encoder responds to rotational motion.
1 Incremental Encoders: The output of an incremental motor encoder is used to control the speed of a motor shaft. 2  Absolute Encoders: The output of an absolute motor encoder indicates both the motion and the position of the motor shaft. The application in which the motor encoder is being utilized will determine the motor encoder technology that needs to be used. The two broad types of motor encoder technologies available are: 1 
Transfer Case Encoder Motor. The encoder motor is an electric motor which is used to shift the transfer case from high to low range. Also included in the encoder motor assembly is a position sensor which sends the actual position of the transfer case shift shaft to the transfer case control module. Related Items: 
A rotary encoder, also called a shaft encoder, is an electro-mechanical device that converts the angular position or motion of a shaft or axle to an analog or digital code. There are two main types: absolute and incremental (relative). Rotary encoders are often used to track the position of the motor shaft on permanent magnet brushless motors, which are commonly used on CNC machines, robots, and other industrial equipment.
REPAIR ENCODER MOTOR. To get a better idea of what a transfer case encoder motor is, you must first know what the transfer case does in your vehicle. The transfer case is responsible for dividing the power between the front and rear axles. It is employed in vehicles that have a four-wheel or all-wheel drive system
A motor encoder is a rotary encoder mounted to an electric motor that provides these closed loop feedback signals by tracking the speed and/or position of a motor shaft. The application in which the motor encoder is being utilized will determine the motor encoder technology that needs to be used. The two broad types of motor encoder technologies available are: 1  Incremental Encoders: The output of an incremental motor encoder is used to control the speed
1 • This is where the transfer case encoder motor comes into play. 2  The encoder motor is what provides the power for your vehicle to switch back and forth between two-wheel and four-wheel drive. 3  source: http://www.buyautoparts.com/howto/what-is-a-encoder-motor.htm. 1 What is a Transfer Case Encoder Motor?• To get a better idea what a transfer case encoder motor is, you must first know what the transfer case does in your vehicle. – 2  A transfer case is also known as a transfer gear case, transfer box, transfer gearbox, or jockey box.