Mapp v. Ohio (1961) BACKGROUND © 2012 Street Law, Inc. and the Supreme Court Historical Society www.landmarkcases.org Background Summary & Questions (••) Suspicious that Dollree Mapp might be hiding a person suspected in a bombing, the police went to her home in Cleveland, Ohio. In Mapp's case, the Supreme Court of the United States had to decide when a search is legal and whether evidence from an illegal search could be used in a criminal case. In 1961 the Supreme Court of the United States ruled in the case of Mapp v. Ohio.
Dollree Mapp (1957). Dollree “Dolly” Mapp was smart, stylish and beautiful. She was born in Texas in 1924 to an interracial couple. Little is known about her childhood except that when she was 10 years old, she somehow made her way to live with an aunt in Cleveland. She had her only daughter when she was a teenager. She was sentenced to serve 20 years to life under new harsh drug laws. Dolly maintained that she was framed by the cops as payback for what happened in Cleveland. Her supporters formed the Dollree Mapp Defense Committee and committed to fight for her freedom.
But Mapp was being tried in a state court. She was found guilty and sentenced to one to eight years in prison. Mapp and her lawyer appealed her case to the Ohio Supreme Court. That court affirmed her conviction on technical grounds related to Ohio state law, not the Fourth Amendment. Mapp then appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court to review her case. In 1961, four years after her conviction, the Court agreed to hear Mapp v. Ohio. When Dollree Mapp's doorbell rang that afternoon of May 23, she went downstairs and saw three police officers at her door. One of the police officers announced that they were looking for a man in order to question him about a recent bombing.
Dollree Mapp's 1957 mug shot. Cleveland Memory Project. 1  Dollree Mapp, the Cleveland woman who successfully checked police power in a landmark US Supreme Court case, died on October 31 at the age of 90 or 91, according to the New York Times.
Four years later, after Ms. Mapp had been sentenced to prison on obscenity charges and after her conviction had been upheld on appeal, the Supreme Court took up the case, ostensibly because of questions it raised about obscenity and the First Amendment. A woman who lived there, Dollree Mapp, refused to admit them. It was a small gesture of defiance that led to a landmark United States Supreme Court ruling on the limits of police power. Ms. Mapp told the officers that she wanted to see a search warrant.
Dolly was sentenced to serve 7 years in prison. She appealed her case all of the way to the Supreme Court where she won in a landmark decision. In 1970, while living in Queens, Dolly’s home was again raided by the police this time with a valid search warrant. Police seized drugs and ‘stolen property’ from her home. She was sentenced to serve 20 years to life under new harsh drug laws. Dolly maintained that she was framed by the cops as payback for what happened in Cleveland. Her supporters formed the Dollree Mapp Defense Committee and committed to fight for her freedom.
1 Dollree Mapp, the Cleveland woman who successfully checked police power in a landmark US Supreme Court case, died on October 31 at the age of 90 or 91, according to the New York Times. Cleveland Memory Project. 1 
In 1957, Dollree Mapp, an African American woman then in her 30s, rented half of a two-family house in Cleveland, where she lived with her daughter. Although she had no criminal record, she had ties to Cleveland’s underworld. Mug shots of Dollree Mapp in 1957. In May of that year, police were investigating a bombing at the house of Don King – a numbers racketeer who later became a famed boxing promoter – when they received a tip that a suspect might be hiding in Mapp’s home. Three officers showed up at Mapp’s place, demanding to be let in.
On May 23, 1957, three police officers arrived at a house in Cleveland and demanded to enter. They wanted to question a man about a recent bombing and believed he was hiding inside. A woman who lived there, Dollree Mapp, refused to admit them. It was a small gesture of defiance that led to a landmark United States Supreme Court ruling on the limits of police power. Ms. Mapp told the officers that she wanted to see a search warrant. They did not produce on