By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Definition: Relative uncertainty is a measure of the uncertainty of measurement compared to the size of the measurement. Also Known As: relative error. Examples: Three weights are measured at 1.05 g, 1.00 g, and 0.95 g. The absolute error is ± 0.05 g. The relative error is 0.05 g/1.00 g = 0.05 or 5%
To calculate the uncertainty of your measurements, you'll need to find the best estimate of your measurement and consider the results when you add or subtract the measurement of uncertainty. If you want to know how to calculate uncertainty, just follow these steps. 1 For example, the uncertainty for this measurement can be 60 cm ± 2 cm, but not 60 cm ± 2.2 cm. 2  If your experimental measurement is 3.4 cm, then your uncertainty calculation should be rounded to .1 cm.
The absolute uncertainty (usually called absolute error-but error connotes mistake, and these are NOT mistakes) is the size of the range of values in which the true value of the measurement probably lies. If a measurement is given as, the absolute uncertainty is 0.1 cm. An uncertainty interval (or error interval) is the   part of a measurement. It is used, along with significant digits, to indicate the precision of a measurement. Thus, in the two-significant-digit measurement 5.4 0.2 meters, the uncertainty interval is 0.2 meters.
That means that the volume reading 25.3 ± 0.1 mL is correct. When a calculation is done with this volume the uncertainty is converted to a percentage uncertainty. The scientist understands that every measurement has some uncertainty in it and this uncertainty is contained in any answer. In science, uncertainty refers to the precision of your measurements. No matter what instrument you use the last figure you write down is the figure with th
Uncertainty in a single measurement. Bob weighs himself on his bathroom scale. The smallest divisions on the scale are 1-pound marks, so the least count of the instrument is 1 pound. Bob reads his weight as closest to the 142-pound mark. 
Indicated by the uncertainty [Bevington, 2], or the fractional (relative) uncertainty [Taylor, 28]. The degree of refinement with which an operation is performed or a measurement stated [Webster]. The total uncertainty of a value [Fluke, G-3]. The error [Taylor, 14]. (Taylor does not distinguish between the terms error and uncertainty. ). relative (fractional) uncertainty-the absolute uncertainty divided by the measured value, often expressed as a percentage or in parts per million (ppm) [Taylor, 28; Baird, 14].
Relative Uncertainty (Relative Error). Relative uncertainty is the ratio of the absolute uncertainty of a measurement to the best estimate. It expresses the relative size of the uncertainty of a measurement (its precision). Symbolically, if is the absolute uncertainty in a measurement. , then the relative uncertainty in x, s x, is: An uncertainty interval (or error interval) is the   part of a measurement. It is used, along with significant digits, to indicate the precision of a measurement. Thus, in the two-significant-digit measurement 5.4 0.2 meters, the uncertainty interval is 0.2 meters.