In Egypt, both a common (short) cubit and a longer Royal or Sacred cubit emerged. The common Egyptian cubit was the length of the forearm from the elbow to the tip of the middle finger (about 18 inches). This common cubit is also found throughout Biblical literature.
The sizes in our references range from the 17.5 inches per cubit that according to the World Almanac, is THE accepted standard, to 25.6 inches. I measured my own arm from the elbow to my index fingertip and it was 20.5 inches; I am 6 feet tall.
Cubit lengths vary. Historically a cubit was the length of a mans forearm and was subdivided into seven Palms of 4 digits each. If we assume a cubit to be 20.6 inches long, th … en 6 cubit equals 123.6 inches.
The cubit, generally taken as equal to 18 inches (457 mm), was based on the length of the arm from the elbow to the tip of the middle finger and was considered the equivalent of 6 palms or 2 spans. In some ancient cultures it was as long as 21 inches (531 mm). 1  Comments.
Definition of CUBIT. : any of various ancient units of length based on the length of the forearm from the elbow to the tip of the middle finger and usually equal to about 18 inches (46 centimeters).
The length of a cubit was based on the distance from the elbow to the fingertips, so it varied between different ancient groups of people. Here are some samples from Egypt, Babylon, and ancient Israel:
A cubit is an ancient Egyptian unit of measurement equating to 18 inches. Thus, 100 cubits = 150 feet = 45.72 meters.   The term is sometimes used to mean square cu … bits, or an area 18 inches by
The cubit (normally defined as the length from elbow to fingertip) is the most widespread unit of measure from the ancient world. However, ancient cubits vary and not all cubits are defined as the distance from elbow to fingertip. Investigation reveals the cubit length to be anywhere from 17 to 24 inches.
Notes for Verse 15 Assuming the cubit to be 21.888 inches, the ark would be five hundred forty-seven feet long, ninety-one feet two inches wide, and forty-seven feet two inches high.