Giant kelp can be harvested fairly easily because of its surface canopy and growth habit of staying in deeper water. Bongo kelp ash is rich in iodine and alkali. In great amount, kelp ash can be used in soap and glass production. Kelp in history and culture [edit]. Some of the earliest evidence for human use of marine resources, coming from Middle Stone Age sites in South Africa, includes the harvesting of foods such as abalones, limpets, and mussels associated with kelp forest habitats. In 2007, Erlandson et al.
Commercial production of kelp harvested from its natural habitat took place in Japan for over a century. Many countries today produce and consume laminaria products, but the largest is China. Laminaria japonica, the important commercial seaweed, was first introduced into China in the late 1920s from Hokkaido, Japan. Kelp in history and culture [edit]. Some of the earliest evidence for human use of marine resources, coming from Middle Stone Age sites in South Africa, includes the harvesting of foods such as abalones, limpets, and mussels associated with kelp forest habitats. In 2007, Erlandson et al.
Kelp that is harvested in California today is primarily used in chemical industrial applications. Algin, which is a product derived from kelp, is used as an emulsifier in processed foods and other products where a smooth texture is required (eg. paints, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals). 
Harvesting Time. Seaweed is harvested during the lowest tide of the month when the ocean waters retreat, revealing tons and tons of seaweed. The tide chart will tell you exactly when the minus tides (low tides) occur. They last for several hours, so you will have plenty of time to pick your sea vegetables. 
nutrition from the sea. Norwegian kelp is a brown seaweed harvested from the Atlantic coastline of eastern North America, Greenland, Norway, Britain and Ireland. Like other varieties of kelp, Norwegian kelp is a rich source of natural iodine. 
This kelp provides precious trace minerals such as potassium, iodine, magnesium, and more. Bullwhip kelp is also high in protein and a good source of dietary fiber. Bullwhip kelp, also called bull kelp, can be harvested in spring and summer, and sometimes there is good kelp available in the fall and winter. We like to gather it from the latter part of May through August. It is best to go at low tide when more of the stipe is floating on the surface
The Abalone Farm, Inc. (AFI) owns and operates a mechanical kelp harvester for the purpose of harvesting Giant Kelp (Macrocystis pyrifera) to use as abalone feed. The kelp harvester, the “Ocean Rose”, is a converted 1968 LCM-6. It is 56 feet long by 15 feet wide, with a gross tonnage of 37 tons. Maximum fuel capacity is 450 gallons. Maximum payload of harvested kelp is 20 tons. When the bag is full, which is approximately 1 ton of wet kelp, the net. is pursed, lifted with an on board crane, and placed in the back of the hold. A new bag is. suspended in the front of the hold, and harvesting resumes until it is full.
Organically certified seaweeds carefully harvested from the North Atlantic. Maine Coast Sea Vegetables specializes in sustainably harvested seaweeds from the North Atlantic. We offer native species of Dulse, Kelp (also known as N. Atlantic Kombu), Alaria (N. Atlantic Wakame), Laver (N. Atlantic Nori), Sea Lettuce, Bladderwrack, Rockweed and Irish Moss
Kelps are large seaweeds (algae) belonging to the brown algae (Phaeophyceae) in the order Laminariales. There are about 30 different genera. Kelp grows in underwater forests  (kelp forests) in shallow oceans, and is thought to have appeared in the Miocene, 23 to 5 million years ago. The organisms require nutrient-rich water with temperatures between 6 and 14 °C (43 and 57 °F). Kelp in history and culture [edit]. Some of the earliest evidence for human use of marine resources, coming from Middle Stone Age sites in South Africa, includes the harvesting of foods such as abalones, limpets, and mussels associated with kelp forest habitats. In 2007, Erlandson et al.
The harvesting of kelp in the state is regulated by the California Department of Fish and Game with the maintenance and improvement of the kelp beds important considerations. The State of California has imposed a number of restrictions on harvesting activities. People often think kelp harvesting is responsible for the seaweed litter on southern California beaches. 11 years of research by Dr. Claude ZoBell of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography answered this question. Harvested kelp amounted to less than 1% of the total litter appearing on beaches.