Canal fishing in Surrey. Fishing on the Basingstoke Canal. The Basingstoke Canal is a 32 mile stretch of waterway running from Greywell in Hampshire to Woodham in Surrey, where it joins the Wey Navigation. Hampshire County Council have a useful guide – CLICK HERE.
The Basingstoke Canal was constructed in the 1770s, and was intended as a means of carrying agricultural produce from the Hampshire/Surrey areas to the markets in London. Such cargoes as timber, grain, malt and chalk were carried over a large distance through the quiet countryside. A visit to the Basingstoke Canal is very well worth the effort-it has nice quiet rural scenery (nothing too dramatic) and some pretty little town and villages, but the main attaraction is the peace and quiet of this canal.
Odiham Castle. Known locally as ‘King John’s Castle’, Odiham Castle is located within a tranquil site adjacent to the Basingstoke Canal. The flint ruins are those of the only octagonal Keep in Britain, and currently being restored under the Heritage Lottery Fund and Hampshire County
The Basingstoke Canal. The Basingstoke Canal is a fully navigable waterway through the Borough and an important feature in St. John's. It has been designated as a Conservation Area to protect its historic character. There are other buildings in the area which are Locally Listed. As well as the Basingstoke Canal Conservation Area, the Council has also designated three other Conservation Areas in St. John's to protect the character of the area. These are St. John's village and Pond Road and Fishers Hill in Hook Heath.
The Basingstoke Canal is a British canal, completed in 1794, built to connect Basingstoke with the River Thames at Weybridge via the Wey Navigation. The canal used to start from the centre of Basingstoke, but the last 5 miles (8 km) of the canal route have now been lost. This section of the canal fell into disuse after the closure of the Greywell Tunnel due to a lack of boat traffic, general neglect and a lack of water.
From Basingstoke, the canal passes through or near Greywell, North Warnborough, Odiham, Dogmersfield, Fleet, Farnborough Airfield, Aldershot, Mytchett, Brookwood, Knaphill and Woking. Its eastern end is at Byfleet, where it connects to the Wey Navigation. This, in turn, leads to the River Thames at Weybridge. The canal used to start from the centre of Basingstoke, but the last 5 miles (8 km) of the canal route have now been lost. This section of the canal fell into disuse after the closure of the Greywell Tunnel due to a lack of boat traffic, general neglect and a lack of water.
The Basingstoke Canal runs for 32 miles, from Greywell Village in Hampshire to Woodham in Surrey. Different parts of the canal hold their own surprises such as the flights of locks in Surrey, the lakes and flashes near Mytchett or the rolling fields and picturesque cottages near Odiham. 
Hants, Surrey. A permissive towpath trail from Penny Bridge, Up Nately to the Basingstoke Canal's junction with the Wey Navigation at Woodham, Surrey. The Canal walk goes through the Surrey and Hampshire countryside along the tree-lined towpath of the recently restored 200 years old canal and through woodland, heathland, wetland and pasture. The canal towpath has been reinstated as far as Up Nately, 3 miles from Basingstoke and currently the limit of the Canal walk.