• HIVE (noun). The noun HIVE has 3 senses: 1. a teeming multitude. 2. a man-made receptacle that houses a swarm of bees. 3. a structure that provides a natural habitation for bees; as in a hollow tree. Familiarity information: HIVE used as a noun is uncommon.• HIVE (verb). The verb HIVE has 3 senses: 1. store, like bees. 2. move together in a hive or as if in a hive. 3. gather into a hive. Familiarity information: HIVE used as a verb is uncommon.
1. a shelter constructed for housing a colony of honeybees; beehive. 2. the colony of bees inhabiting a hive. 3. something resembling a beehive in structure or use. 4. a place swarming with busy occupants: a hive of industry.5. a swarming or teeming multitude. 6. to gather into or cause to enter a hive.
hive-a structure that provides a natural habitation for bees; as in a hollow tree. beehive. honeycomb-a structure of small hexagonal cells constructed from beeswax by bees and used to store honey and larvae. nest-a structure in which animals lay eggs or give birth to their young.. a shelter constructed for housing a colony of honeybees; beehive. 2. the colony of bees inhabiting a hive. 3. something resembling a beehive in structure or use. 4. a place swarming with busy occupants: a hive of industry.
Hives is a reaction of the body's immune system that causes areas of the skin to swell, itch, and become reddened (wheals). When the reaction is limited to small areas of the skin, it is called urticaria.. Involvement of larger areas, such as whole sections of a limb, is called angioedema..
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: hive (Noun). A structure for housing a swarm of honeybees. hive (Noun). The bees of one hive; a swarm of bees. hive (Noun). A place swarming with busy occupants; a crowd. hive (Noun).A section of the registry. hive (Verb).
Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: hive (noun). a teeming multitude. beehive, hive (noun). a man-made receptacle that houses a swarm of bees. beehive, hive (verb). a structure that provides a natural habitation for bees; as in a hollow tree. hive (verb).store, like bees.iktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: hive (Noun). A structure for housing a swarm of honeybees. hive (Noun). The bees of one hive; a swarm of bees. hive (Noun). A place swarming with busy occupants; a crowd
Definition: A hive in the Windows Registry is the name given to a major section of the registry that contains registry keys, registry subkeys, and registry values. All keys that are considered hives begin with HKEY and are at the top of the hierarchy in the registry.
Noun. 1. hives-an itchy skin eruption characterized by weals with pale interiors and well-defined red margins; usually the result of an allergic response to insect bites or food or drugs. nettle rash, urticaria, urtication.rash, roseola, skin rash, efflorescence-any red eruption of the skin.
Hypernyms (hive is a kind of...): nest (a structure in which animals lay eggs or give birth to their young). Meronyms (parts of hive): honeycomb (a structure of small hexagonal cells constructed from beeswax by bees and used to store honey and larvae).amiliarity information: HIVE used as a noun is uncommon. • HIVE (verb). The verb HIVE has 3 senses: 1. store, like bees. 2. move together in a hive or as if in a hive. 3. gather into a hive. Familiarity information: HIVE used as a verb
A. A. A. Urticaria, also known as hives, is an outbreak of swollen, pale red bumps or plaques (wheals) on the skin that appear suddenly -- either as a result of the body's reaction to certain allergens, or for unknown reasons. Hives usually cause itching, but may also burn or sting.