Temporal arteritis is a serious disorder that causes chronic inflammation of the large and medium arteries of the head, which supply oxygenated blood to portions of the head and brain. This inflammatory disease results in an inadequate supply of oxygen and nutrients in the brain and head areas. Temporal arteritis is a relatively uncommon disorder, but it is the most frequent cause of vasculitis (an inflammation of the blood vessels). Temporal arteritis is also called giant cell arteritis and cranial arteritis.
Temporal arteritis is a condition in which the temporal arteries, which supply blood to the head and brain, become inflamed or damaged. It is also known as cranial arteritis or giant cell arteritis. Potential Complications of Temporal Arteritis. Complications can occur as a result of both the condition itself and as a result of the oral corticosteroid treatment. If temporal arteritis is not treated, the following complications can occur: 1  inflammation and damage to other blood vessels in the body. 2  development of aneurysms, including aortic aneurysm. 3  vision loss. 4  eye muscle weakness. 5  blindness. 6  stroke
(Redirected from Temporal arteritis). Giant-cell arteritis (GCA or temporal arteritis or cranial arteritis) or Horton disease is an inflammatory disease of blood vessels most commonly involving large and medium arteries of the head, predominantly the branches of the external carotid artery. Some cases may not involve the temporal artery, and distinguishing between a false negative and the absence of GCA is difficult. The terms giant-cell arteritis and temporal arteritis are sometimes used interchangeably, because of the frequent involvement of the temporal artery.
Temporal arteritis is also called giant cell arteritis or cranial arteritis. It is a rheumatic disease that affects large and medium-sized arteries throughout the body and can occur in a variety of patients. Although the temporal arteries are most commonly affected, other arteries throughout the body may be affected. The term temporal arteritis literally means inflammation of the temporal arteries.. As implied by the name, these blood vessels run along the temples after they branch off from the carotid artery in the neck. They provide the blood supply to portions of the scalp, jaw muscles, and salivary glands
Although this condition usually occurs in the temporal arteries, temporal arteritis can occur in almost any medium to large artery in the body. Older individuals, over 60 years of age, are more likely than younger individuals to develop the condition. Potential Complications of Temporal Arteritis. Complications can occur as a result of both the condition itself and as a result of the oral corticosteroid treatment. If temporal arteritis is not treated, the following complications can occur: 1  inflammation and damage to other blood vessels in the body. 2  development of aneurysms, including aortic aneurysm. 3  vision loss. 4  eye muscle weakness. 5  blindness. 6  stroke
1 Giant cell arteritis (GCA) is a disease of blood vessels, may occur together with polymyalgia rheumatica. 2  GCA occurs only in older adults, mainly those over age of 50, and can cause swelling and thickening of the small artery under the skin called the temporal artery. Fast Facts. 1  Giant cell arteritis (GCA) is a disease of blood vessels, may occur together with polymyalgia rheumatica. 2  GCA occurs only in older adults, mainly those over age of 50, and can cause swelling and thickening of the small artery under the skin called the temporal artery. 3  A new, persisting headache is a common symptom of GCA. 4  If GCA ...
Temporal arteritis (also called giant cell arteritis or cranial arteritis) Temporal arteritis is a common chronic inflammatory disease of large blood vessels occurring primarily in people 50 and older. It most often involves narrowing and sometimes blockage of the arteries that bring blood to the brain. 
Temporal arteritis is inflammation and damage to the blood vessels that supply blood to the head. If the inflammation affects the arteries in your neck, upper body and arms, it is called giant cell arteritis. Back to Top Causes. Temporal, giant cell, and cranial arteritis occur when one or more arteries become inflamed, swollen, and tender. Temporal arteritis commonly occurs in the the arteries around the temples (temporal arteries). These vessels branch off from the carotid artery in the neck.