SQF is GFSI Recognized and benchmarked to provide you with the recognition you need to supply products to leading manufacturers and retailers worldwide. More and more retailers and manufacturers are asking for GFSI recognized certification. SQF Basics. The SQF Code has different requirements specific to different industry segments, meaning that many different types of food companies can use the SQF Code to build a system that is right for them. This is achieved by presenting requirements in different Modules of the code.
SQF Code, Edition 7 is a Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) benchmarked food safety standard that supports industry or company-branded products and offers benefits to suppliers and their customers. Products produced and manufactured under the SQF Code certification retain a high degree of acceptance in global markets. Certification to SQF generally takes an average of six to nine months, depending on a facility’s level of readiness. The process follows nine basic steps: 1  You apply to NSF for certification.
Safe Quality Food (SQF) is a food safety certification scheme. The SQF Food Safety Management System is designed to provide organizations with a rigorous system to manage food safety risks, provide safe product and provide organizations with a recognized food safety certification. SQF Basics. The SQF Code has different requirements specific to different industry segments, meaning that many different types of food companies can use the SQF Code to build a system that is right for them. This is achieved by presenting requirements in different Modules of the code.
The SQF Program is a complete food safety and quality management certification system. It is designed specifically. for the food industry and can be applied at all levels of the food supply chain. SQF provides independent certification that a product, process or service complies with regulatory and other specified standards, and enables a food supplier to develop a system that helps ensure food has been produced, prepared and handled according to the. highest possible standards.
SQF, Safe Quality Food, is a leading, global food safety and quality program recognized by the Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI). It is the only GFSI recognized standard that offers a seamless farm to fork food safety certification program. SQF Certification has several advantages: 1  It is the only food safety program that offers certification for: 2  Primary producers and growers. 3  Manufacturing, processing and distribution sectors. 4  Reduces or eliminates the need for multiple, redundant audits.
SQF certification provides independent verification that a product or process complies with specific international standards. It enables a food supplier to give assurances that food has been produced, prepared and handled according to the most recognized standards. Certification to SQF generally takes an average of six to nine months, depending on a facility’s level of readiness. The process follows nine basic steps: 1  You apply to NSF for certification.
1 There are three levels of certification for the SQF standard. 2  Level 1 is mainly for low risk products and it incorporates fundamental food safety controls. 3  Level 2 is a certified HACCP food safety plan that is benchmarked by GFSI. 1 Level 1 is mainly for low risk products and it incorporates fundamental food safety controls. 2  Level 2 is a certified HACCP food safety plan that is benchmarked by GFSI. 3  Level 3 is a comprehensive implementation of safety and quality management systems that incorporates Level 2.
GFSI promotes continuous improvement in food safety management systems to ensure the delivery of safe food to consumers. Contact us to learn how you can achieve SQF certification or for answers about GFSI (Global Food Safety Initiative): CERT ID LC 1-641-209-1899 1-800-376-7155. 
1 SQF has two levels of certification to choose from that are GFSI recognized: 2  Level 2: This level is focused on food safety, and does not include quality requirements. 3  Level 3: This level includes both food safety and quality management requirements. SQF Basics. The SQF Code has different requirements specific to different industry segments, meaning that many different types of food companies can use the SQF Code to build a system that is right for them. This is achieved by presenting requirements in different Modules of the code.
The SQF Code requires that you have a trained SQF practitioner as an employed staff member on site. There is training available from SQFI or SQF Licensed Training Centers. Your SQF Practitioner, along with the support of an independent SQF Consultant (optional), can implement your SQF Food Safety and Quality system. Thorough preparation and an accurate application are the keys to success in achieving SQF Certification. CERT ID LC or your Account Representative will provide you with an application and answer any questions you may have regarding preparation and completing your application.