What Insulin Does. Specifically, insulin allows the cells in the muscles, fat and liver to absorb glucose that is in the blood. The glucose serves as energy to these cells, or it can be converted into fat when needed. Insulin also affects other metabolic processes, such as the breakdown of fat or protein. 
Your cells cannot use glucose without insulin, a hormone secreted from the beta cells in the pancreas. Insulin helps the cells take in glucose and convert it to energy. Insulin affects several organs and tissues to promote glycogen storage and laying down of fat. Glucose, some amino-acids, and to a much lesser extent fat all promote insulin release. In the liver, insulin increases glucose transport into the liver from the blood, and the synthesis of glycogen. In muscle the effects are similar and in fact the amount of glucose taken up by muscle is a significant contributor to the total glucose disposal rate (GDR). In adipocytes, insulin promotes synthesis of fat
insulin is a hormone that regulates blood sugar. it is produced by the islets of langerham cells in the pancreas. Insulin is a hormone central to regulating carbohydrate and f … at metabolism in the body. Insulin affects several organs and tissues to promote glycogen storage and laying down of fat. Glucose, some amino-acids, and to a much lesser extent fat all promote insulin release. In the liver, insulin increases glucose transport into the liver from the blood, and the synthesis of glycogen. In muscle the effects are similar and in fact the amount of glucose taken up by muscle is a significant contributor to the total glucose disposal rate (GDR). In adipocytes, insulin promotes synthesis of fat
Continue ReadingPatient Guide to Insulin: About Diabetes. Insulin is a hormone made by the pancreas that allows your body to use sugar (glucose) from carbohydrates in the food that you eat for energy or to store glucose for future use. Insulin helps keeps your blood sugar level from getting too high (hyperglycemia) or too low (hypoglycemia). 
Insulin is a hormone made by the pancreas that helps the body store and use glucose. Think of insulin as the U.S. Postal Service and glucose as the mail; insulin is responsible for delivering that glucose (sugar) from the bloodstream into muscle, fat, liver, and most other cells so that your body can use it for fuel. Insulin is a hormone produced and secreted by the pancreas or administered by injection, that is necessary for glucose (in the blood) to be transported into cells where it is converted into energy. The only tissues that do not require insulin to transport glucose into cells are the brain and heart
Insulin has several broad actions including: 1  It causes the cells in the liver, muscle, and fat tissue to take up glucose from blood and convert it to glycogen that can be stored in the liver and muscles. 2  Insulin also prevents the utilization of fat as an energy source. 1 In absence of insulin or in conditions where insulin is low glucose is not taken up by body cells, and the body begins to use fat as an energy source. 2  Insulin also controls other body systems and regulates the amino acid uptake by body cells. 3  It has several other anabolic effects throughout the body as well.
Insulin (from the Latin, insula meaning island) is a peptide hormone produced by beta cells in the pancreas. It regulates the metabolism of carbohydrates and fats by promoting the absorption of glucose from the blood to skeletal muscles and fat tissue and by causing fat to be stored rather than used for energy. 
A. Insulin stimulates the cells of the body to absorb sugar (glucose) out of the blood. It also inhibits the production of glucose by the liver. In type 1 diabetes, the body does not make insulin. In type 2 diabetes, the body is resistant to the insulin the body does make. All people with type 1 diabetes need to take insulin injections.