Although most often the Gleason score is based on the 2 areas that make up most of the cancer, there are some exceptions when on a core sample there is either a lot of high-grade cancer or there are 3 grades including high-grade cancer. Grades 1 and 2 are not often used for biopsies − most biopsy samples are grade 3 or higher. 1  If the cancerous tissue looks much like normal prostate tissue, a grade of 1 is assigned. 2  If the cancer cells and their growth patterns look very abnormal, a grade of 5 is assigned.
These 2 grades are added to yield the Gleason score (also called the Gleason sum). The first number assigned is the grade that is most common in the tumor. For example, if the Gleason score is written as 3+4=7, it means most of the tumor is grade 3 and less is grade 4 and they are added for a Gleason score of 7. The highest a Gleason score can be is 10. Grades 1 and 2 are not often used for biopsies − most biopsy samples are grade 3 or higher. 1  If the cancerous tissue looks much like normal prostate tissue, a grade of 1 is assigned. 2  If the cancer cells and their growth patterns look very abnormal, a grade of 5 is assigned.
T2a or T2b, N0, M0, Gleason score of 7 or less, PSA less than 20: The tumor can be felt by digital rectal exam or seen with imaging such as transrectal ultrasound and is in only one side of the prostate [T2a or T2b]. The cancer has not spread to nearby lymph nodes [N0] or elsewhere in the body [M0]. The PSA can be any value. Stage III: T3, N0, M0, any Gleason score, any PSA: The cancer has grown outside the prostate and may have spread to the seminal vesicles [T3], but it has not spread to nearby lymph nodes [N0] or elsewhere in the body [M0]. The tumor can have any Gleason score and the PSA can be any value. OR. Any T, any N, M1, any Gleason score, any PSA: The cancer may or may not be growing into tissues near the prostate [any T] and may or may not have spread to nearby lymph nodes [any N
A Gleason score of 7, a PSA between 10 and 20 ng/ml, and a medium tumor stage indicates medium risk. This means that the prostate cancer is unlikely to grow or spread for several years. A Gleason score of 7 can be derived from differing primary and secondary grades, for example 3 and 4, or 4 and 3. This can be significant because a primary grade of 3 indicates that the predominant cancer area is less aggressive than the secondary area.
The stage (extent) of a cancer is one of the most important factors in choosing treatment options and predicting a man’s outlook. The stage is based on the prostate biopsy results (including the Gleason score), the PSA level, and any other exams or tests that were done to find out how far the cancer has spread. The PSA can be any value. Stage III: T3, N0, M0, any Gleason score, any PSA: The cancer has grown outside the prostate and may have spread to the seminal vesicles [T3], but it has not spread to nearby lymph nodes [N0] or elsewhere in the body [M0]. The tumor can have any Gleason score and the PSA can be any value. OR. Any T, any N, M1, any Gleason score, any PSA: The cancer may or may not be growing into tissues near the prostate [any T] and may or may not have spread to nearby lymph nodes [any N]
What does the Gleason score mean? The higher the Gleason score, the more aggressive the cancer, and the more likely it is to spread. 1  3+3 - All of the cancer cells found in the biopsy look likely to grow slowly. 2  3+4 - Most of the cancer cells found in the biopsy look likely to grow slowly. When these two grades are added together, the total is called the Gleason score. For example, if the biopsy samples show that: 1  most of the cancer seen is grade 3 and. 2  the highest grade of any other cancer seen is grade 4, then.
1 What are the numbers in the Gleason score, for example 3+4=7 or 3+3=6? 2  Prostate cancer can have several patterns under the microscope, which are each assigned a different number. 3  The first number in the score is the most common and the second number in the score is the next most common pattern seen under the microscope. 1 For example, in a Gleason score 3+4=7, most of the tumor is pattern 3 and less is pattern 4 and they are added together for a Gleason score of 7. 2  In a tumor with a 3+3=6, the tumor is all pattern 3, and they are added together for a Gleason score of 6.
Your doctor may talk about your Gleason grade and Gleason score after your biopsy. Gleason grade. Prostate cancer cells in your biopsy samples are given a Gleason grade. This tells you how aggressive the cancer is – in other words, how likely it is to grow and spread outside the prostate. When cancer cells are seen under the microscope, they have different patterns, depending on how quickly they’re likely to grow. When these two grades are added together, the total is called the Gleason score. For example, if the biopsy samples show that: 1  most of the cancer seen is grade 3 and. 2  the highest grade of any other cancer seen is grade 4, then.