The shape of the articular surfaces in a joint help determine how the joint will work. There is one example that gliding joints are also called as plane joints. A flat rock travels more easily over a flat surface than an uneven rock slides over an uneven surface, the shape of a gliding joint is ideal for gliding motions. 
pivot joint a synovial joint in which one bone pivots within a bony or an osseoligamentous ring, allowing only rotary movement; an example is the joint between the first and second cervical vertebrae (the atlas and axis). See illustration. Called also rotary or trochoid joint. a synovial joint that allows movement in only one plane, through the presence of a pair of collateral ligaments that run on either side of the joint. Examples are the elbow and the interphalangeal joints of the digits. The jaw is primarily a hinge joint, but it can also move somewhat from side to side.
In human body, a joint is where two bones get together. Joints, also called articulations, are where two bones come together. Apart from the hyoid bone, all the bones in the neck, form a joint. Joints are often classified by the amount of motion they permit. Some of the joints are fixed, like those in the skull, permit for no movement
The mortise is a rectangular socket. The ankle is composed of three joints: the talocrural joint (also called talotibial joint, tibiotalar joint, talar mortise, talar joint), the subtalar joint (also called talocalcaneal), and the Inferior tibiofibular joint. In medical terminology, ankle (without qualifiers) can refer broadly to the region or specifically to the talocrural joint. The main bones of the ankle region are the talus (in the foot), and the tibia and fibula (in the leg). The talus is also called the ankle bone. The talocrural joint is a synovial hinge joint that connects the distal ends of the tibia and fibula in the lower limb with the proximal end of the talus. The articulation between the tibia and the talus bears more weight than that between the smaller fibula and the talus
a synovial joint in which the rounded or spheroidal surface of one bone ('ball') moves within a cup-shaped depression ('socket') on another bone, allowing greater freedom of movement than any other type of joint. Called also spheroidal joint. a synovial joint that allows movement in only one plane, through the presence of a pair of collateral ligaments that run on either side of the joint. Examples are the elbow and the interphalangeal joints of the digits. The jaw is primarily a hinge joint, but it can also move somewhat from side to side.
arthrodial joint. gliding joint. ball-and-socket joint. a synovial joint in which the rounded or spheroidal surface of one bone ('ball') moves within a cup-shaped depression ('socket') on another bone, allowing greater freedom of movement than any other type of joint. Called also spheroidal joint. joint. the site of the junction or union of two or more bones of the body. See also arthritis. The primary functions of joints are to provide motion and flexibility to the skeletal frame, or to allow growth. Some joints are immovable, such as certain fixed joints where segments of bone are fused together in the skull.
fibrous joint a joint in which the union of bony elements is by continuous intervening fibrous tissue, which makes little motion possible; the three types are suture, syndesmosis, and gomphosis. Called also immovable or synarthrodial joint and synarthrosis. a synovial joint that allows movement in only one plane, through the presence of a pair of collateral ligaments that run on either side of the joint. Examples are the elbow and the interphalangeal joints of the digits. The jaw is primarily a hinge joint, but it can also move somewhat from side to side.