asteroid belt-the region of interplanetary space between Mars and Jupiter where most asteroids are found. interplanetary space-the part of outer space within the solar system. belt-an elongated region where a specific condition or characteristic is found; a belt of high pressure.
The asteroid belt is the region of the Solar System located roughly between the orbits of the planets Mars and Jupiter.
The asteroid belt is a region of space between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter where most of the asteroids in our Solar System are found orbiting the Sun.
The Asteroid Belt (also known as the Main Belt) is a large region of asteroids (small rocky or metallic bodies) that lies between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter. It formed out of the proton planetary disk which orbited the Sun during the early years of the Solar System.
Asteroid Belt. The asteroid belt is situated between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter around 280 million miles (450 million km) from the sun. There are millions of asteroids residing in this area ranging from 600 miles (950 km) in diameter, all the way down to particles of dust.
The Asteroid Belt is located in an area of space between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter. That places it between 2.2 and 3.2 astronomical units (AU) from the Sun. The belt is about 1 AU thick. The average distance between objects in the Asteroid Belt is quite large.
The main Asteroid Belt in the solar system is located between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter. It contains many millions of rocky objects and dust particles, and the dwarf plan … et Ceres (formerly considered simply the largest of the asteroids).
The vast majority of asteroids in the solar system are found in a region of the solar system out beyond Mars. They form the Asteroid Belt. Others orbit in near-Earth space and a few migrate or are thrown out to the outer solar system by gravitational interactions. The four largest asteroids in the belt are Ceres, Vesta, Pallas, and Hygiea. They contain half the mass of the entire belt.
The asteroid belt probably contains millions of asteroids. Astronomers think that the asteroid belt is made up of material that was never able to form into a planet, or of the remains of a planet which broke apart a very long time ago. The asteroids in the asteroid belt come in a variety of sizes.