The properties of diamond are a logical consequence of its structure. Carbon, with four valence electrons, forms covalent bonds to four neighboring carbon atoms arranged toward the corners of a tetrahedron, as shown in the figure below. Each of these sp 3 -hybridized atoms is then bound to four other carbon atoms, which form bonds to four other carbon atoms, and so on. Carbon therefore forms covalent bonds with many other elements. 3. Carbon forms strong double and triple bonds with a number of other nonmetals, including N, O, P, and S. Elemental Forms of Carbon: Graphite, Diamond, Coke, and Carbon Black. Carbon occurs as a variety of allotropes.
Thus to become a happy atom, Carbon can either gain or lose four electrons. By sharing the electrons with other atoms, Carbon can become a happy atom,. alternately filling and emptying its outer shell, as with the four hydrogens shown in Figure 9. Figure 9. Formation of covalent bonds in methane. 
Compounds with covalent bonds may be solid, liquid or gas at room temperature depending on the number of atoms in the compound. The more atoms in each molecule, the higher a compound’s melting and boiling temperature will be. Since most covalent compounds contain only a few atoms and the forces between molecules are weak, most covalent compounds have low melting and boiling points. However, some, like carbon compounds, can be very large. 
Diamond is a form of carbon in which each carbon atom is joined to four other carbon atoms, forming a giant covalent structure. As a result, diamond is very hard and has a high melting point. It does not conduct electricity. Buckminsterfullerene is yet another allotrope of carbon. It is actually not a giant covalent structure, but a giant molecule in which the carbon atoms form pentagons and hexagons-in a similar way to a leather football. It is used in lubricants. Page: 1  1. 2  2. 3  3. 4  4. 5  5.
Four shared electrons are known as a double bond and six shared electrons are known as a triple bond. The oxygen we breathe consists of two oxygen atoms sharing four electrons in a double bond. Methane, or natural gas, is a covalent compound made of one carbon bonded to four hydrogens via single bonds. Learn about covalent bonds, how covalent compounds are formed and the properties inherent to covalent compounds, such as low melting and boiling points, in this lesson. Also, learn what rules to follow to name simple covalent compounds.
Lewis proposed that an atom forms enough covalent bonds to form a full (or closed) outer electron shell. In the methane diagram shown here, the carbon atom has a valence of four and is, therefore, surrounded by eight electrons (the octet rule), four from the carbon itself and four from the hydrogens bonded to it. A covalent bond is a chemical bond that involves the sharing of electron pairs between atoms.
A covalent bond is a strong bond between two non-metal atoms [atoms: An atom is the smallest part of an element that still has the properties of that element, comprising electrons surrounding a nucleus of protons and neutrons. Substances with covalent bonds often form molecules with low melting and boiling points, such as hydrogen and water. Example-the animation shows a covalent bond being formed between a hydrogen atom and a chlorine atom, to form hydrogen chloride.
Carbon has an electronic arrangement of 2,4. In diamond, each carbon shares electrons with four other carbon atoms-forming four single bonds. In the diagram some carbon atoms only seem to be forming two bonds (or even one bond), but that's not really the case. We are only showing a small bit of the whole structure. 
A covalent bond forms when two non-metal atoms [atoms: An atom is the smallest part of an element that still has the properties of that element, comprising electrons surrounding a nucleus of protons and neutrons. Substances with covalent bonds often form molecules with low melting and boiling points, such as hydrogen and water. Example-the animation shows a covalent bond being formed between a hydrogen atom and a chlorine atom, to form hydrogen chloride.
Properties of Covalent Molecules. The covalent bonds between atoms in a given molecule are very strong, as strong as ionic bonds. However, unlike ionic bonds, there is a limit to the number of covalent bonds to other atoms that a given atom can form. For example, carbon can make four bonds-not more. Oxygen can form two bond