If the size of the undercut is small enough and the material is flexible enough a side action is not always required. In these cases the undercut is stripped or snapped out of the mold. When this is done usually a stripping plate or ring is used instead of stripper pins so that the part is not damaged. In machining the corners may be undercut to remove the radius that is usually left by the milling cutter. Examples of this use are linear bearings for square shafts (i.e. racks) and machined hexalobular sockets.
They are categorized into internal and external undercuts, where external undercuts are on the exterior of the part and interior undercuts are on the inside of the part. Undercuts can still be molded, but require a side action or side pull. This is an extra part of the mold that moves separately from the two halves. In machining the corners may be undercut to remove the radius that is usually left by the milling cutter. Examples of this use are linear bearings for square shafts (i.e. racks) and machined hexalobular sockets.
A rule of thumb is that the undercut should be at least 1.5 threads long and the diameter should be at least 0.015 in (0.38 mm) smaller than the minor diameter of the thread. Strictly speaking the relief simply needs to be equal or slightly smaller than the minor diameter of the thread. In machining the corners may be undercut to remove the radius that is usually left by the milling cutter. Examples of this use are linear bearings for square shafts (i.e. racks) and machined hexalobular sockets.
Noun. 1. undercut-the material removed by a cut made underneath. material, stuff-the tangible substance that goes into the makeup of a physical object; coal is a hard black material; wheat is the stuff they use to make bread. un·der·cut. v. un·der·cut, un·der·cut·ting, un·der·cuts. v. tr. 1. To diminish or destroy the province or effectiveness of; undermine: The partnership between the United States and Western Europe is undercut by diverging economic interests (Scott Sullivan).
undercut, n 1. the portion of a tooth that lies between its height of contour and the gingivae, only if that portion is of less circumference than the height of contour. 2. the contour of a cross-section of a residual ridge of dental arch that would prevent the placement of a denture or other prosthesis. undercut, unusable, n the area of an abutment tooth or soft tissue across which a unit of the removable partial denture must pass without interference and hence must be blocked out (filled with wax or clay) before the master cast is duplicated.
On the other hand, the top part of the Undercut is only trimmed with scissors (never a hair clipper) and the length of the hair on the top ranges from 2 inches to 6 inches, although the hair can be as long as one may decide (i.e. the longer the hair is after 6 inches, the worse the Undercut tends to look). Because of the above 4 main hairstyles for the Undercut’s top, you will always have plenty of hairstyling options to choose from once you have gotten the foundation for the Undercut (i.e. clipped back and sides of the head, while the top of the head is anywhere from 2 to 6 inches long).
Welcome to UndercutHairstyle.com, the official website of the Undercut hairstyle! This website aims to bring you a free comprehensive resource on the Undercut hairstyle and haircut, primarily aimed at men but which can also be of guidance to women. This website is published by a team of expert barbers who regard the Undercut as a classic look for males that is more than a just hairstyle trend. Because of the above 4 main hairstyles for the Undercut’s top, you will always have plenty of hairstyling options to choose from once you have gotten the foundation for the Undercut (i.e. clipped back and sides of the head, while the top of the head is anywhere from 2 to 6 inches long).
In manufacturing, an undercut is a special type of recessed surface. In turning it refers to a recess in a diameter. In machining it refers to a recess in a corner. In machining the corners may be undercut to remove the radius that is usually left by the milling cutter. Examples of this use are linear bearings for square shafts (i.e. racks) and machined hexalobular sockets.
An Undercut hairstyle (aka “Undercut”) is a type of men’s hairstyle that is comprised of a bowl cut and of a top part (i.e. the “bowl”). The hair on the sides and back of the head in an Undercut is buzzed with a hair clipper and with a very short single clipper length. Because of the above 4 main hairstyles for the Undercut’s top, you will always have plenty of hairstyling options to choose from once you have gotten the foundation for the Undercut (i.e. clipped back and sides of the head, while the top of the head is anywhere from 2 to 6 inches long).