A person with A + blood receives B + blood. The B antibodies (yellow) in the A + blood attack the foreign red blood cells by binding to them. The B antibodies in the A + blood bind the antigens in the B + blood and agglutination occurs. AB0 blood grouping system. According to the AB0 blood group system there are four different kinds of blood groups: A, B, AB or 0 (null). Blood group A. If you belong to the blood group A, you have A antigens on the surface of your red blood cells and B antibodies in your blood plasma.
ABO blood type system. The ABO system consists of A, B, AB, and O blood types. People with type A have antibodies in the blood against type B. People with type B have antibodies in the blood against type A. People with AB have no anti-A or anti-B antibodies. People with type O have both anti-A and anti-B antibodies. People with type AB blood are called universal recipients, because they can receive any of the ABO types. People with type O blood are called universal donors, because their blood can be given to people with any of the ABO types. Mismatches with the ABO and Rh blood types are responsible for the most serious, sometimes life-threatening, transfusion reactions. But these types of reactions are rare.
1 Blood group B individuals have the B antigen on the surface of their RBCs, and blood serum containing IgM antibodies against the A antigen. 2  Therefore, a group B individual can receive blood only from individuals of groups B or O (with B being preferable), and can donate blood to individuals with type B or AB. 1 Blood group A individuals have the A antigen on the surface of their RBCs, and blood serum containing IgM antibodies against the B antigen. 2  Therefore, a group A individual can receive blood only from individuals of groups A or O (with A being preferable), and can donate blood to individuals with type A or AB.
Agglutination, or clumping, occurs when red blood cells of A, B, AB, or Rh positive blood are added to the bloodstream of a person whose red blood cells lack the protein or sugar. People with blood type AB have some red blood cells that include the A sugar molecule and some that have the B sugar molecule.
Which of the following blood types is a person whose blood cells were agglutinated by both anti-A serum and anti-B serum, but not by anti-Rh serum? 
Therefore you need to know which blood types are “compatible”, that is which other blood types fit a patient with a certain blood type. For example, a person with blood type B Rh-has got A and Rh antibodies and cannot receive a blood transfusion with red blood cells which have A and Rh antigens like A Rh+ or AB Rh+. If the blood is not compatible in a blood transfusion,then the red blood cells from the donated blood will clump or agglutinate. The agglutinated red cells can clog blood vessels and stop the circulation of the blood to various parts of the body.
If the Rh protein is present on the red blood cells, a person's blood type is Rh+ (positive); if it is absent, the person's blood is type Rh- (negative). Our bodies naturally produce antibodies against the A and B antigens that we do not have on our red blood cells. For example, a person who is blood type A will have anti-B antibodies directed against the B antigens on red blood cells and someone who is type B will have anti-A antibodies directed against the A antigens. People with type AB blood have neither of these antibodies, while those with type O blood have both. If a person who is group A with antibodies directed against the B antigen, for example, were to be transfused with blood that is type B, his or her own antibodies would target and destroy the transfused red blood cells, causing severe, potentially fatal complications.
This is based on the fact that on the surface of the red blood cells there may be one or more proteins, called antigens. These antigens are called A and B. Antibodies are produced in the blood plasma against these A and B antigens, and continue to be produced throughout a person s life. The 4 blood types are known as A, B, AB and O. Blood type O (persons with neither A or B antigens) is the most common in the United States (45% of the population). Type A is found in 39% of the population. Type B is 12% of the population, and type AB is found in only 4% of the population