Using a pastry brush, spread the mixture all over the pork shoulder. Set the meat on a rack set into a roasting pan. Roast for 20 minutes, and then reduce the heat to 325 degrees F. Continue to cook until an instant-read thermometer inserted into the shoulder reads 185 degrees F, about 4 hours. Remove the pork from the oven and let stand until cool enough to handle, about 30 minutes. 
Continue cooking about 50-80 minutes or until the meat registers 145 degrees on a meat thermometer. Some roasts are long and thin and others are short and fat, consequently the cooking times will vary depending on the shape of your roast. The meat thermometer is the best way to judge the right amount of cooking time. Cooking to this temp, then allowing the roast to rest for 15 minutes after removing from the oven, will take the roast to approximately 150 degrees, at which point you can serve it and it will be the juiciest, most tender pork you can get. Don’t mind it if it’s a bit pink in the middle – it’s ok.
Remove the roast from the oven and set on a cutting board. Cover the meat with tin foil and let it rest for about 15 minutes before slicing it. The temperature of the roast will continue to rise about another 5 degrees. Cooking to this temp, then allowing the roast to rest for 15 minutes after removing from the oven, will take the roast to approximately 150 degrees, at which point you can serve it and it will be the juiciest, most tender pork you can get. Don’t mind it if it’s a bit pink in the middle – it’s ok.
1 Place pork loin into oven, turning and basting with pan liquids. 2  Cook until the pork is no longer pink in the center, about 1 hour. 3  An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read 145 degrees F (63 degrees C). 4  Remove roast to a platter. 1 Rub the meat with the remaining garlic mixture and olive oil. 2  Place pork loin into oven, turning and basting with pan liquids. 3  Cook until the pork is no longer pink in the center, about 1 hour. 4  An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read 145 degrees F (63 degrees C). 5
3. Heat the oven to 500 degrees for a raw roast, 375 for a pre-browned one. 4. Place the roasting pan in the oven; cook for 10 minutes, then lower the heat to 300 degrees. 5. Cook for about 45 minutes, then start checking the roast's temperature with an instant-read thermometer. Remove the roast when the internal temperature, measured as deep into the roast as you can get, reads 165 degrees. 6. 
Roast. Roasting, very similar to baking, is a method of cooking pork in the oven in a shallow, uncovered pan, and without adding liquid to the pan. Any cut of pork can be roasted, and should be roasted at 350° F unless otherwise noted. This chart will help you decide how long you need to roast the cut of pork you have
Always position the pork roast in the pan so that fat side is on the top. Measure one tablespoon of olive oil in a small dish. Add 1 Tablespoon of dried spices to the oil. You can use rosemary, sage, thyme, or oregano; or a combination of these that equal 1 tablespoon. Cooking to this temp, then allowing the roast to rest for 15 minutes after removing from the oven, will take the roast to approximately 150 degrees, at which point you can serve it and it will be the juiciest, most tender pork you can get. Don’t mind it if it’s a bit pink in the middle – it’s ok.
1 Cook the pork roast in the oven on 325 degrees Fahrenheit (163 degrees Celsius). 2  Cooking time will be 35 minutes per lb. (0.45kg) of meat. 3  A pork roast with the bone in will cook faster than a boneless roast. 4  It will result in a crispier surface texture with less moisture. 1 Cooking time will be 35 minutes per lb. (0.45kg) of meat. 2  A pork roast with the bone in will cook faster than a boneless roast. 3
Swirl to coat the bottom. Roast the pork for 10 minutes: Set the pork in the pan. (It's fine if your pork tenderloin is a little long for the pan; just bend it to fit as we did here.) Return the pan to the oven. Roast for 10 minutes. Flip the pork, reduce the heat, and roast another 10 to 15 minutes: Flip the pork to the other side.