Making the world better, one answer at a time. Sazonador Total Seasoning from Goya contains granulated garlic, granulated onion, monosodium glutamate or MSG, salt, parsley, oregano, cumin, and tricalcium phosphate. It's considered a complete seasoning. Every brand name seasoning is bound to have special or select spices.     However, the earliest cookbooks define poultry seasoning as consisting of only: sage … , thyme, marjoram, rosemary, nutmeg and black pepper.
Goya Sazonador Total has all the ingredients you need to season your food, all in one product. Goya Sazonador Total (complete seasoning) contains the most aromatic spices with the most flavor to make your dishes super special. Rub it on meats, poultry and fish. Add to salads, soups, sauces and vegetables. Descripcion DESCRIPCIóN EN. Espanol Español Goya sazonador total has all the ingredients you need to season, your food all in. One Product Goya (sazonador total) complete seasoning contains the most aromatic spices with the most flavor to make your dishes. super special
This seasoning sauce is primarily used for soups and sauces, but can also be used to prepare snacks, marinade sauces or to add flavor to dishes that include fish, poultry or meat. Maggi is made with salt, spices and pepper. Maggi Jugo Sazonador. Este jugo sazonador es comunmente utilizado en sopas y salsas, aparte para prepar botanas, salsa para marinar o para darle sabor a platillos que incluyen pollo, carne o pescado. Maggi esta hecho con sal, especias y pimienta.
A new way to give your meals an extra flavor. Its combination of spices enhances the natural flavor of your foods, making any dish something truly special. 
Maggi Seasoning Sauce-Salsa Maggi-Jugo Sazonador 3.38 oz. Nestle's famous seasoning sauce is similar to East Asian soy sauce, except it doesn't contain soy. Este jugo sazonador es comunmente utilizado en sopas y salsas, aparte para prepar botanas, salsa para marinar o para darle sabor a platillos que incluyen pollo, carne o pescado. Maggi esta hecho con sal, especias y pimienta.
Inside this box you'll find the secret to creating the authentic flavors of Latino cuisine. Goya Saz n s special blend of seasonings makes every dish it graces taste truly exceptional. Just one packet makes a world of difference. For those watching their sodium intake, try Saz n Natural & Complete for the same great Saz n flavor and only a fraction of the salt. 
Best Answer: Maggi seasoning is a liquid vegetable based seasoning. It is most commonly used in soups and sauces and gravies for added flavor. It is very concentrated and very salty! So, if you use it, omit any salt from your original recipe. It is a very good product when used properly. 