Explore the trend with our interactive chart. | Graphic by Daniel Wood, Energy Department. Fossil energy sources, including oil, coal and natural gas, are non-renewable resources that formed when prehistoric plants and animals died and were gradually buried by layers of rock.
Today, fossil fuel industries drill or mine for these energy sources, burn them to produce electricity, or refine them for use as fuel for heating or transportation. Over the past 20 years, nearly three-fourths of human-caused emissions came from the burning of fossil fuels. | Graphic by Daniel Wood, Energy Department. Fossil energy sources, including oil, coal and natural gas, are non-renewable resources that formed when prehistoric plants and animals died and were gradually buried by layers of rock.
Fossil Fuels. The United States gets 84% of its total energy from oil, coal, and natural gas, all of which are fossil fuels. We depend on fossil fuels to heat our homes, run our vehicles, power industry and manufacturing, and provide us with electricity.
Fossil fuels are sources of energy that have developed within the earth over millions of years. Because fossil fuels-oil, natural gas, and coal-take so long to form, they are considered nonrenewable. Fossil fuels are sources of energy that formed from the accumulated remains of living organisms that were buried millions of years ago. Pressure, heat and time allow the organic matter to transform into one of the three major types of fossil fuels, which are coal, oil and natural gas.
Full Definition of FOSSIL FUEL. : a fuel (as coal, oil, or natural gas) formed in the earth from plant or animal remains. — fos·sil–fueled \-ˌfyue(-ˌfyü)ə\ ld. Adjective see fossil fuel defined For-english language. Learners see fossil fuel defined for. kids : a fuel (such as coal, oil, or natural gas) that is formed in the earth from dead plants or animals.
In a fossil fuel power plant the chemical energy stored in fossil fuels such as coal, fuel oil, natural gas or oil shale and oxygen of the air is converted successively into thermal energy, mechanical energy and, finally, electrical energy. Each fossil fuel power plant is a complex, custom-designed system. A fossil-fuel power station is a power station which burns fossil fuel such as coal, natural gas or petroleum to produce electricity. Central station fossil-fuel power plants are designed on a large scale for continuous operation. In many countries, such plants provide most of the electrical energy used
Coal, the first of the fossil fuels to make its presence felt in the modern era, remains a major contributor to the world’s energy pool. Once burned in chimneys to produce heat, today coal is widely used as fuel for power plants that generate electricity for residential and commercial customers. Fossil fuels —coal, petroleum (oil), and natural gas — are concentrated organic compounds found in the Earth’s crust.
Fossil fuels, including coal, oil and natural gas, are currently the world's primary energy source. Formed from organic material over the course of millions of years, fossil fuels have fueled U.S. and global economic development over the past century. 
Fossil fuels are fuels formed by natural processes such as anaerobic decomposition of buried dead organisms. The age of the organisms and their resulting fossil fuels is typically millions of years, and sometimes exceeds 650 million years. Fossil fuels contain high percentages of carbon and include coal, petroleum and natural gas. Other more commonly used derivatives of fossil fuels include kerosene and propane