In general, the amount of office space you need is estimated according to head count and your industry type. The customary range for office space is 150-350 square feet (SF) per person employed. It is the type of space you need to accommodate your business that plays a large part in narrowing that range.
Typical presidential offices range from 150-400 square feet. Secretarial and administrative space, on the other hand, will range from 60-110 square feet. Don't forget about meeting room space. Conference rooms should allow 25-30 square feet per person for a traditional conference room arrangement.
Accurately working out how much office space per person you require, or the amount of office space needed for circulation space, can be extremely complicated – every organisation’s requirements are different.
According to OfficeFinder.com, in typical office scenarios, you can estimate 175-250 square feet per employee. If you know, however, that you'll need a couple of large executive offices then you need to estimate more square footage for those.
How much office space you are going to need will vary depending on your individual office space requirements. Some businesses require meeting rooms, kitchen facilities, break out and reception areas – others just need desk space.
Calculating how much office space your business needs is not an exact science. Your real estate agent will ask you what your requirements are in terms of how many square feet you will need. This will give him/her a relative measurement of which properties are in the ball-park and which ones are not.
For a 50/50 mix of private office and open cubicle area: 250 SF per person. For 100% open cube area: 200 SF per person. How dense you pack your office space also is limited by the availability of parking in areas without mass transit and the capacity of the HVAC systems (especially in warmer climates).
In the initial planning process, you can estimate you will need approximately 250 square feet per person and it will provide a rough estimate of your office space needs to begin shopping for space.