Ozone is released naturally in the troposphere by plants and soil. These are such small amounts that they are not harmful to the health of humans, animals or the environment. Ozone that increases because of certain human activities does become a problem at ground level and this is what we think of as 'bad' ozone. You may have heard of the ozone hole problem-that is a lack of ozone in the stratosphere (the 2nd layer of the Earth's atomsphere). But ozone is also found in the troposphere, the first layer of the Earth s atmosphere. In the troposphere, ozone is NOT wanted! It can actually do a lot of damag
1 Tropospheric ozone is often called bad ozone because it can damage living tissue and break down certain materials. 2  Concentrations of ozone are not uniform in the troposphere. 3  Longer exposure to ozone will increase the negative effects. Ozone affects plants in several ways. High concentrations of ozone cause plants to close their stomata. These are the cells on the underside of the plant that allow carbon dioxide and water to diffuse into the plant tissue. This slows down photosynthesis and plant growth.
Tropospheric ozone is a greenhouse gas and initiates the chemical removal of methane and other hydrocarbons from the atmosphere. Thus, its concentration affects how long these compounds remain in the air. The troposphere extends from the Earth 's surface to between 12 and 20 kilometers above sea level and consists of many layers. Ozone is more concentrated above the mixing layer, or ground layer. Ground-level ozone, though less concentrated than ozone aloft, is more of a problem because of its health effects.
Ozone occurs in two layers of the atmosphere. The layer closest to the Earth's surface is the troposphere. Here, ground-level or bad ozone is an air pollutant that is harmful to breathe and it damages crops, trees and other vegetation. It is a main ingredient of urban smog. The troposphere generally extends to a level about 6 miles up, where it meets the second layer, the stratosphere.
1 Ozone is a naturally occurring gas found in the troposphere and other parts of the atmosphere. 2  Tropospheric ozone is often called bad ozone because it can damage living tissue and break down certain materials. Ozone affects plants in several ways. High concentrations of ozone cause plants to close their stomata. These are the cells on the underside of the plant that allow carbon dioxide and water to diffuse into the plant tissue. This slows down photosynthesis and plant growth.
Nitrogen oxide can combine with ozone to reform nitrogen dioxide, and the cycle repeats. Ozone can also be found in the troposphere, the lowest layer of the atmosphere. Tropospheric ozone (often termed bad ozone) is man-made, a result of air pollution from internal combustion engines and power plants. 
Ozone (O 3) is a constituent of the troposphere (it is also an important constituent of some regions of the stratosphere commonly known as the ozone layer). The troposphere extends from the Earth 's surface to between 12 and 20 kilometers above sea level and consists of many layers. Ozone is more concentrated above the mixing layer, or ground layer. Ground-level ozone, though less concentrated than ozone aloft, is more of a problem because of its health effects.
The ozone in this layer of air protects plants, animals, and us by blocking the most harmful rays of the sun. Tropospheric ozone, (ground-level ozone) is found in the troposphere, which is the layer of air closest to the Earth's surface. The troposphere is the air from the ground to about 8 miles up into the atmosphere-it's the air we breathe. Ozone does not naturally occur at harmful levels in the troposphere. Our ground-level ozone problems are caused by human activities. Ozone affects plants in several ways. High concentrations of ozone cause plants to close their stomata. These are the cells on the underside of the plant that allow carbon dioxide and water to diffuse into the plant tissue. This slows down photosynthesis and plant growth.
Ozone’s Effects on Human Health. Shortness of breath, dry cough or pain when taking a deep breath, tightness of the chest, wheezing, and sometimes even nausea are common responses to ozone. Ozone reacts with molecules in the lining of our airways. 