In the legume family (Fabaceae), Baptisia tinctoria and some species of Psoralea produce tumbleweeds. In Psoralea the tumbleweed detaches from the plant by abscission of the stem. In the Plantaginaceae, Plantago cretica forms tumbleweeds. In the Brassicaceae, Sisymbrium altissimum, Crambe maritima, Lepidium, and a resurrection plant, Anastatica form tumbleweeds. In the Caryophyllaceae, the garden plant baby's-breath (Gypsophila paniculata), produces a dry inflorescence that forms tumbleweeds.
Other members of the Amaranthaceae (s.l.) that form tumbleweeds include Kochia species, Cycloloma atriplicifolium, and Corispermum hyssopifolium, which are called plains tumbleweed. In the Brassicaceae, Sisymbrium altissimum, Crambe maritima, Lepidium, and a resurrection plant, Anastatica form tumbleweeds. In the Caryophyllaceae, the garden plant baby's-breath (Gypsophila paniculata), produces a dry inflorescence that forms tumbleweeds.
More Tumbleweed Trivia. 1  There may be another value to tumbleweeds--a study has revealed that tumbling tumbleweeds soak up depleted uranium from contaminated soils at weapons testing grounds. 2  The song Tumbling Tumbleweeds was written in 1932 by Bob Nolan of the Sons of the Pioneers. The tumbleweed really is a weed, and its real name is the Russian thistle. Tumbleweeds aren't considered as having any redeeming value except for the fact that they are interesting to watch as they tumble about.
Same two tumbleweeds as the two photos above, their progress as of May 1. I pulled other kinds of weeds out around them so you could see them better. I put a tomato frame on them too and told the others in my family not to pull them out. That's hard, to see a tumbleweed in the yard and not pull it. 
Tumbling Tumbleweeds  is a song composed by Bob Nolan. Although one of the most famous songs associated with the Sons of the Pioneers, the song was composed by Nolan in the 1930s, while working as a caddy and living in Los Angeles. 
Tumbleweed, Russian thistle and wind witch are common names for this symbol of the American west. Russian thistle alludes to its Eurasian origin. Scientific names for tumbleweed include Salsola kali, S. pestifer, S. australis, S. iberica, and S. tragus. Salsola is derived from the Latin sallere, to salt, in reference to the plant’s salt tolerance. There does not yet appear to be a consensus on the preferred scientific name, although S. tragus is the leading candidate for the inland variety of tumbleweed and S. kali, for the more coastal variety
1 There may be another value to tumbleweeds--a study has revealed that tumbling tumbleweeds soak up depleted uranium from contaminated soils at weapons testing grounds. 2  The song Tumbling Tumbleweeds was written in 1932 by Bob Nolan of the Sons of the Pioneers. The tumbleweed really is a weed, and its real name is the Russian thistle. Tumbleweeds aren't considered as having any redeeming value except for the fact that they are interesting to watch as they tumble about.
Among the Amaranthaceae (s.s. ) that form tumbleweeds there are several species of Amaranthus, such as Amaranthus albus, native to Central America but invasive in Europe, Asia, and Australia; and Amaranthus graecizans, native to Africa, but naturalized in North America. In the Brassicaceae, Sisymbrium altissimum, Crambe maritima, Lepidium, and a resurrection plant, Anastatica form tumbleweeds. In the Caryophyllaceae, the garden plant baby's-breath (Gypsophila paniculata), produces a dry inflorescence that forms tumbleweeds.
The tumbleweed, also known as the Russian Thistle, came to the prairies of the United States in the late 1870’s. It found its way here in grains and seeds imported from Russia. The Mennonites imported the tumbleweed in flax seed in 1877 to South Dakota. The tumbleweed first sprouted in Bon Homme County, South Dakota. Some people believe the Mennonites brought the tumbleweed deliberately, due to the discriminating way they had been treated.