More Information: grammatical function, infinitive, infinitive marker, p-word, preposition, verb. Infinitive markers in English grammar are function words that distinguish the base forms from the infinitive forms of English verbs. Function words perform definite grammatical functions but lack definite lexical meaning. Infinitive marker is a grammatical function. The grammatical form that can function as the infinitive marker in English grammar is the p-word, specifically the p-word to. Infinitive markers are constituents of the verb phrase. References. Brinton, Laurel J. & Donna M. Brinton. 2010. 
Linguistic marker. Find the definition, function, examples or stated rules of the following: Linguistic markersCause and effectCompare and contrastClassificationDefinitionThis is what I got from my teacher for my assignment. I've searched about linguistic markers everywhere but I couldn't find any info about it. 
Examples and Observations.  1 The underlying structure of a sentence or a phrase is sometimes called its phrase structure or phrase marker. . . . 2  Phrase-structure rules provide us with the underlying syntactic structure of sentences we both produce and comprehend. . . .  3 There are different types of phrase-structure grammar. Examples and Observations.  1 The underlying structure of a sentence or a phrase is sometimes called its phrase structure or phrase marker. . . .  2 There are different types of phrase-structure grammar. ( 3 Trevor A. Harley, The Psychology of Language: From Data to Theory, 4th edition. 4  Rewrite Rules. -  5 The idea of a PSG [phrase structure grammar] is ...
Note that the base form of the only irregular English verb in the simple present is be. The p-word to functioning as an infinitive marker distinguishes the base form from the infinitive of English verbs. For example: 1  Base Form – Infinitive. 2  jump – to jump. 3  crawl – to crawl. 4  watch – to watch. 5  pickle – to pickle. 
PRO (linguistics). From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In generative linguistics, PRO (called big PRO, distinct from pro, small pro or  little pro ) is a pronominal determiner phrase (DP) without phonological content. As such, it is part of the set of empty categories. The null pronoun PRO is postulated in the subject position of non-finite clauses. For a sentence such as (14a), there is a debate about whether PRO moves from Spec-VP (where it is introduced) to Spec-TP in non-finite clauses. Baltin (1995) argues that the tense marker to does not have an EPP feature, and that therefore PRO does not move to Spec-TP; this yields the structure in (14b).
M.A. in Slavic Linguistics. A linguistic marker is a meaningful sound (morpheme) indicating the grammatical function of of a word, phrase or sentence. Some languages use markers more than others. For instance, Russian uses more markers than the current use of English which has fewer markers than it did in the past. The unmarked form of the word is what you usually find in the dictionary. Word: The sound ed in the word worked marks the verb as being a past tense.
In linguistics, a marker is a free or bound morpheme that indicates the grammatical function of the marked word, phrase, or sentence. More characteristically, markers occur as clitics or inflectional affixes. In analytic languages and agglutinative languages, markers are generally easily distinguished. In fusional languages and polysynthetic languages, this is often not the case. For example, in Latin, a highly fusional language, the word amo (I love) is marked by suffix-o for indicative mood, active voice, first person, singular, present tense. Analytic languages tend to have a relatively limited number of markers. Markers should be distinguished from the linguistic concept of markedness. An unmarked form is the basic neutral form of a word, typically used as its dictionary lemma, such as—in English—for nouns the singular (e.g. cat versus cats), and for verbs the infinitive (e.g. to eat versus eats, ate and eaten)
A linguistic marker is a meaningful sound (morpheme) indicating the grammatical function of of a word, phrase or sentence. Some languages use markers more than others. For instance, Russian uses more markers than the current use of English which has fewer markers than it did in the past. The unmarked form of the word is what you usually find in the dictionary. Word: The sound ed in the word worked marks the verb as being a past tense.