The average grocery store in the U.S. measures under 50,000 square feet. Home Depots average about 100,000 square feet, and the typical Costco or Walmart Supercenter—generally considered the biggest of all big box retailers —runs 100,000 to 150,000 square feet. But a new breed of home improvement store in the Midwest blows them all away. While the brand is growing, in terms of store size and number of stores alike, it’s got a long way to catch up with Home Depot (2,200 locations) and Lowe’s (1,750 stores).
Full Description. The Home Depot, Inc. (The Home Depot), incorporated on June 29, 1978, is a home improvement retailer. The Home Depot stores sell an assortment of building materials, home improvement products and lawn and garden products and provide services. The Home Depot stores average approximately 104,000 square feet of enclosed space, with approximately 24,000 additional square feet of outside garden area. The Home Depot stores serve three primary customer groups: do-it-yourself (DIY) customers, do-it-for-me (DIFM) customers and professional customers
Store Manager. 1  Salary: You will be paid on a salary basis. 2  Depending on experience, you can make anywhere from $65,000 to as much as $115,000 a year. 3  Bonuses: Home Depot pays out very attractive bonuses. 4  These are all determined on your store performance. 5  They can range from $1,000 to $45,000 extra annually. 1
Home Depot roof prices vary greatly depending on the type of shingles you want for your roof, the type of underlayment you choose, and the quality of the nails and other products that you will need to complete the project. 
The Home Depot was founded in 1978 by Bernard Marcus, Arthur Blank, Ron Brill, and Pat Farrah. The Home Depot's proposition was to build home-improvement superstores, larger than any of their competitors' facilities. Investment banker Ken Langone helped Marcus and Blank to secure the necessary capital. The acquisition gave the Home Depot an immediate presence in China, with 12 stores in six cities. Beginning of April, 2011, Home Depot recently shut its last Beijing store, the fifth Home Depot to close in China in the past two years.
1. Assemble your project list. Build your cart in the store. If your total adds up to at least $2500, you probably qualify for a volume discount. 2. Get a quote. Talk to a dedicated Pro associate at your local Pro Desk and request a quote to see how much you can save.
A sprawl-busters article includes this clip: To rennovate an existing store, Home Depot may spend as much as $5 million a year, one-third the cost of building a new one.. Which suggests a new store price tag of 15mil. The Beaverton Valley Times cited the cost of a Lowe's built in 2001 at $6.4mil. 
With 69 stores and at least nine more on the way this year, Home Depot is Mexico's largest home improvement retailer with annual sales of more than $1 billion. But Lowe's plans to mount a challenge, opening its first stores this year. Jeremy (Schwartz/Cox Newspapers). The company started with four stores and now operates 69, with at least nine stores set to open this year. The chain, which has annual Mexico sales of more than $1 billion, is the country's largest home improvement retailer.
In 2007, the Home Depot sold its $13 billion revenue wholesale (trade) division, HD Supply, to a consortium of three private equity firms, The Carlyle Group, Bain Capital and Clayton, Dubilier and Rice (with each agreeing to buy a one-third stake in the division). The acquisition gave the Home Depot an immediate presence in China, with 12 stores in six cities. Beginning of April, 2011, Home Depot recently shut its last Beijing store, the fifth Home Depot to close in China in the past two years.
104 months ago. I got an offer from Home Depot-they offered 45K with a small bonus based on store performance. They wanted 50 -55 hours a week, also you had to be there for the second and third shift during the week, as well as working Saturday and Sunday periodically. There is much burnout I understand. 