A distribution deal is different. A major record label or record distributor distributes your music all over the world. In addition, they have no involvement in the recording process, production, and own little to no portion of the music song rights.
A distribution deal is every recording artists’ dream. Most record deals are every recording artists’ nightmare. However, most recording artists’ don’t know the difference between the two. Standard recording contracts require the artist and or songwriters to give up song rights and publishing.
The standard music distribution deal is based on what used to be the only distribution model in the music business. The music distribution deal use to come, and still does in many cases, as part-and-parcel of the record deal you signed with the label. You would find a record company which would finance, manufacture, distribute, promote and handle your publicity for you.
The old model went a little something like this... The music distribution deal use to come, and still does in many cases, as part-and-parcel of the record deal you signed with the label. You would find a record company which would finance, manufacture, distribute, promote and handle your publicity for you.
Definition: Distribution is how albums get into shops. Distribution companies sign deals with record labels (or very rarely, directly with artists) that gives them the right to sell that label's products to record stores that have an account with that distributor.
A music distribution deals law attorney will be instrumental in making sure you get the best deal and understand what is being offered to you, especially if you are new to the industry. This article is provided for informational purposes only.
You had to therefore accept the fact that in order to get your CD distributed in stores, you needed a record deal. This is no longer the case because the Internet flipped the old world of music distribution on it's head, as it did for most of the rest of the music business.
The Music Distribution Deal ... The music distribution deal use to come, and still does in many cases, as part-and-parcel of the record deal you signed with the label. You would find a record company which would finance, manufacture, distribute, promote and handle your publicity for you.