Since the density of water is 1 g/cm^3, therefore sand weighs 2.2 /1 = 2.2 times as much as water for a given volume. ie... 1 gallon of water weighs 8.35 lbs so 1 gallon of sand weighs 8.35 x 2.2 = 18.4 lbs so the sand weighs more... Source(s): Dr W · 8 years ago. The gallon of water would be lighter I believe because its a question of the densities of the two. Sand would be more dense than water, around 1600kg/m^3 and water is 1000 or 1026 for salt water.
A gallon of water weighs about 8 pounds or about 1000 kg/cu m A gallon of sand weighs: in kg/cu m Sand, wet 1922 Sand, wet, packed 2082 Sand, dry 1602 Sand, loose 1442 Sand, rammed 1682 Sand, water filled 1922 So, as you can tell, sand is heavier for the same volume. So last night my husband and his buddies wanted to mess around with the punching bag on a stand and usually you can fill those with water or sand to weight them down so it doesn't come back and hit you or fall over when you hit it. Well then him, his two buddies, me, and the buddies' wives all got into a..
Depends on the volume. Also the kind of sand. A gallon of water weighs about 8 pounds or about 1000 kg/cu m. A gallon of dry sand weighs 1602 kg/cu m. report this answer. Updated on Thursday, February 02 2012 at 12:17AM EST. Source: www.simetric.co.uk/...
And each sand particle is different in size and density as well. So you'd really have to weigh it. scoop a cup of that sand and use it as the general sample for the overall weight of the sand. then measure the weight for the cup of water. trojan · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. 3. Thumbs down. 3. 1 comment. Loading ... So last night my husband and his buddies wanted to mess around with the punching bag on a stand and usually you can fill those with water or sand to weight them down so it doesn't come back and hit you or fall over when you hit it. Well then him, his two buddies, me, and the buddies' wives all got into a
So equal volumes of wet and dry sand would not weigh the same; the wet sand would weigh more because it has more mass, the mass of the water in-between the sand and the mass of the sand itself. The dry sand has only the mass of the sand and the air between the grains of sand. After all, water is not a heavy (or dense) as sand and if the sand in the bucket has to make room for the water it would have to hold less sand and therefore the sand and water combination should weigh less than the sand alone! Now, there is a good question!
A gallon is a volume measurement, not weight. The gallon of water would be lighter I believe because its a question of the densities of the two. Sand would be more dense than water, around 1600kg/m^3 and water is 1000 or 1026 for salt water. So the Gallon of sand would be heavier if weighed in the same manner. The gallon of water would be lighter I believe because its a question of the densities of the two. Sand would be more dense than water, around 1600kg/m^3 and water is 1000 or 1026 for salt water
Milk weighs more because it is more dense. Answer: Milk is a complex mixture containing sugars, salts, lipids and proteins. As a consequence its mass/volume or density and … its specific gravity vary with the type of cow and the specific cow. Answer   the water weighs more, ice is an 'expanded form of water-because it is less dense there is more space between the molecules and therefore lighter.
Finer sand may weigh more because you can pack a lot more of the fine particles of sand in a particular area than bigger grains. But if you try to see which is denser, the finer sand will float on the water while the bigger sand grains will sink. So last night my husband and his buddies wanted to mess around with the punching bag on a stand and usually you can fill those with water or sand to weight them down so it doesn't come back and hit you or fall over when you hit it. Well then him, his two buddies, me, and the buddies' wives all got into a..