More types of organic compound Carboxylic acids Carboxylic acids contain the-COOH group, which is better written out in full as: Carboxylic acids are shown by the ending oic acid. When you count the carbon chain, you have to remember to include the carbon in the-COOH group. 
Esters have a very sweet fruity smell. Naturally occurring esters are found in fruits. An ester is a product of the reaction of an acid (usually organic) and an alcohol (the hydrogen of the acid R-COOH is replaced by an alkyl group R'). Esters mainly result from the condensation (a reaction that produces water) of a carboxylic acid and an alcohol. The process is called esterification. Common names of esters are derived from the organic acid and the alcohol from which they are derived. For example, when acetic acid reacts with ethyl alcohol, the ester formed is called ethyl acetate. The IUPAC name is different.
· just now. Report Abuse. Propyl ethanoate is produced when propyl alcohol reacts with ethanoic (acetic) acid. This compound belongs to a group of organic compounds known as esters. This would be an ester. Esters form when an organic acid reacts with an alcohol. The-OH from the carboxyl group of the organic acid reacts with an-H from the-OH group of the alcohol. These-OH and-H combine to form water and the two remnants of the organic acid and alcohol combine to form an ester.
An organic acid has a structure: O This compound, which contains two carbon atoms with a group on one end of the molecule is ethanoic acid, commonly called acetic acid or vinegar (a 5% solution of acetic acid). 
Propyl acetate, also known as propyl ethanoate, is a chemical compound used as a solvent and an example of an ester. This clear, colorless liquid is known by its characteristic odor of pears. Due to this fact, it is commonly used in fragrances and as a flavor additive. It is formed by the esterification of acetic acid and 1-propanol (known as a condensation reaction), often via Fischer–Speier esterification, with sulfuric acid as a catalyst and water produced as a byproduct.
Making ethyl ethanoate. Ethyl ethanoate is the ester made from ethanol and ethanoic acid. Sulfuric acid is added to act as a catalyst [catalyst: A catalyst changes the rate of a chemical reaction without being changed by the reaction itself.] in the reaction. ethanol + ethanoic acid ethyl ethanoate + water. 
In chemistry, esters are chemical compounds derived from an acid (organic or inorganic) in which at least one-OH (hydroxyl) group is replaced by an-O- alkyl (alkoxy) group. Usually, esters are derived from a carboxylic acid and an alcohol. 
Ethyl ethanoate, is the organic compound with the formula CH3COOCH2CH3. This colorless liquid has a characteristic sweet smell (similar to pear drops) and is used in glues or nail polish removers. Ethyl acetate is the ester of ethanol and acetic acid; it is manufactured on a large scale for use as a solvent. 