There are a large number of hydrocarbons, but the simplest is CH4 (methane). One important thing about hydrocarbons is that they are all flammable. When combined with oxygen (combustion), a hydrocarbon ALWAYS produces carbon dioxide (CO2) and water (H2O). Burning oil releases carbon dioxide, a  powerful greenhouse gas which is causing gl … obal warming. Cars are not bad for the environment. The car in your driveway produces zero issues with the environment. USING The car is another issue.
Hydrocarbons and alkanes. Most of the compounds in crude oil are hydrocarbons. This means that they only contain hydrogen and carbon atoms, joined together by chemical bonds. There are different types of hydrocarbon, but most of the ones in crude oil are alkanes. The alkanes are a family of hydrocarbons that share the same general formula. This is: C n H 2n+2. The general formula means that the number of hydrogen atoms in an alkane is double the number of carbon atoms, plus two. For example, methane is CH 4 and ethane is C 2 H 6.
1 Saturated hydrocarbons (alkanes) are the simplest of the hydrocarbon species. 2  They are composed entirely of single bonds and are saturated with hydrogen. 3  The general formula for saturated hydrocarbons is C n H 2n+2 (assuming non-cyclic structures). 
Halogenated hydrocarbons are a subgroup of aromatic hydrocarbons, in which one of the hydrogen molecules is substituted by a halogen group. The most important halogenated hydrocarbons include carbon tetrachloride, trichloroethylene, tetrachloroethylene, trichloroethane, chloroform, and methylene chloride. Hydrocarbon pneumonitis results from a direct toxic affect by the hydrocarbon on the lung parenchyma. The type II pneumocytes are most affected, resulting in decreased surfactant production. This decrease in surfactant, results in alveolar collapse, ventilation-perfusion mismatch, and hypoxemia.
Over 55,000 of these poisonings involve small children swallowing hydrocarbons. Hydrocarbons are a broad group of chemicals that contain hydrogen and carbon atoms. They are found in every home. Gasoline, kerosene, lamp oil and furniture oil are all examples of hydrocarbons. If someone accidentally drinks a hydrocarbon product and it enters the lungs, breathing problems can develop. 
Hydrocarbons are chemical compounds made up of only hydrogen and  carbon. Hydrocarbons usually have a carbon skeleton to which the  hydrogen atoms are attached. The simpl … est hydrocarbon is methane,  with one carbon atom and four hydrogen atoms. A hydrocarbon is a molecule that consists primarily of hydrogen and carbon. Other atoms may be present in place of the hydrogen atoms in some places. Examples of hydrocarbo … ns include Methane (CH4), toluene. A hydrocarbon contains only hydrogen atoms and carbon atoms. There are a large number of hydrocarbons, but the simplest is CH4 (methane). One important thing about hydrocarbons is that they are all flammable. When combined with oxygen (combustion), a hydrocarbon ALWAYS produces carbon dioxide (CO2) and water (H2O)
Hydrocarbons. Most of the compounds in crude oil are hydrocarbons. This means that they only contain hydrogen and carbon atoms, joined together by chemical bonds. There are different types of hydrocarbon, but most of the ones in crude oil are alkanes. The alkanes are a family of hydrocarbons that share the same general formula. This is: C n H 2n+2. The general formula means that the number of hydrogen atoms in an alkane is double the number of carbon atoms, plus two. For example, methane is CH 4 and ethane is C 2 H 6.
Indirect Effects of Hydrocarbons on the Environment. There are indirect effects such as burning them to release carbon dioxide, and NOX, SOX and POX etc, these might then be further altered in to photochemical smog in the right conditions (doubly indirect). In the geo environmental sphere hydrocarbon can be split in to two subsets, in relation to their behavior in ground water / aquifers, LNAPLS and DNAPLS (Light / Dense Non aqueous phase liquids.
Cars are bad for the environment because they release bad toxins  and fumes into the air. Burning oil releases carbon dioxide, a  powerful greenhouse gas which is causing gl … obal warming. Cars are not bad for the environment. The car in your driveway produces zero issues with the environment. USING The car is another issue.