The tiger snake is a usually timid species which, like most snakes, usually retreats at the approach of a human. They are an interesting snake which despite the name may not have any striping at all. There is no maternal care amongst Tiger snakes. Tiger snakes do not become more aggressive during the breeding season, but a male snake tracking a female may well have his mind on other things and may be more easily surprised or be in an unfamiliar environment.
In one survey taken on Carnac Island, a high proportion of the tiger snakes were blind in one (6.7 percent) or both eyes (7.0 percent) due the attacks by nesting gulls. Unlike most other Australian elapids, tiger snakes climb well on both vegetation and human constructions, and have been found as high as 10 m above the ground. Altitudinally, tiger snakes range from sea level to above 1000m (Tasmania).
Australian Snake Bites. In Australia there are about 3,000 snake bites per year, of which 200 to 500 receive antivenom; on average one or two will prove fatal. About half the deaths are due to bites from the brown snake; the rest mostly from tiger snake, taipan and death adder. Some deaths are sudden, however in fact it is uncommon to die within four hours of a snake bite. In 1906, the untreated death rates were as high as 40% to 50% for death adder and tiger snake bites! Improved supportive treatment and the availability of effective antivenoms has reduced this considerably.
• TIGER SNAKE (noun). The noun TIGER SNAKE has 1 sense: 1. highly venomous brown-and-yellow snake of Australia and Tasmania. Familiarity information: TIGER SNAKE used as a noun is very rare. 
The common name refers to the prominent yellow and black cross-bands typical of some populations of tiger snakes, however not all have this pattern. The most commonly seen form is dark olive brown to blackish-brown, with off-white to yellowish cross-bands that can vary in thickness. Unlike most other Australian elapids, tiger snakes climb well on both vegetation and human constructions, and have been found as high as 10 m above the ground. Altitudinally, tiger snakes range from sea level to above 1000m (Tasmania).
Tiger snake Facts. Tiger snake is a venomous snake that belongs to the family of elapid snakes. It can be found in subtropical and temperate parts of southwestern and southeastern Australia. Tiger snake inhabits swamps, lagoons, areas near the rivers and open forests. Tiger snake is diurnal animal (active during the day). Tiger snake spends most of its life on the ground (terrestrial animal), but it can easily climb on trees and various man-made objects. Tiger snake is also able to swim and dive. It can spend 9 minutes under the water without returning to the surface to breathe
The present-day fragmented distribution of tiger snakes is due to a combination of geologically recent climatic changes (increasing aridity) and sea-level changes (islands cut off from the mainland in the past 6000-10000 years). Unlike most other Australian elapids, tiger snakes climb well on both vegetation and human constructions, and have been found as high as 10 m above the ground. Altitudinally, tiger snakes range from sea level to above 1000m (Tasmania).
Tiger snakes are largely diurnal and hunt for prey during the daylight hours; however they will forage on warm evenings. They will readily search underwater and can stay under for at least 9 minutes. A bat was found in the stomach of one museum specimen, demonstrating the tiger snake’s ability to climb. Unlike most other Australian elapids, tiger snakes climb well on both vegetation and human constructions, and have been found as high as 10 m above the ground. Altitudinally, tiger snakes range from sea level to above 1000m (Tasmania).
Tiger snakes feed mainly on mammals and birds under 300 g in weight. Tiger snakes habitually raid birds nests and have been found climbing trees to a height of 8 m. A good indicator of the presence of a Tiger snake is the alarm calls of small birds such as honeyeaters and thornbills. They also eat other vertebrates including lizards, smaller snakes, frogs and occasionally fish. There is no maternal care amongst Tiger snakes. Tiger snakes do not become more aggressive during the breeding season, but a male snake tracking a female may well have his mind on other things and may be more easily surprised or be in an unfamiliar environment.