A Samnite (Latin Samnis, plural Samnites) was a Roman gladiator who fought with equipment styled on that of a warrior from Samnium: a short sword (gladius), a rectangular shield (scutum), a greave (ocrea), and a helmet.
The Fullonica at Sepino dates to the Samnite period, used to card and tan sheep wool for clothing. Materials from a Samnite house, which included decorations with rhombus and swastika patterns. The anchor was 2 meters (6.5 feet) long and weighed more than 300 kg (650 lb).
In 327 BC, the Romans drove out the Samnite garrison, beginning the Second Samnite War. The Samnites were a loose alliance of four separate tribes occupying the mountainous regions of central Italy. By the beginning of the Second samnite War, they controlled twice as much territory as the Romans.
The House of the Faun was built in the second century BC during the Samnite period (200-80 BC). It was repaired after an earthquake in AD 62 and survived until the eruption of Mount Vesuvius in AD 79.
564 pages on this wiki. The Samnite was an early class of gladiator, quite popular during the period of the Roman Republic. Eventually, other gladiator types joined the roster, such as the Gaul-inspired Murmillo and the Thracian-inspired Thraex.
The Second and Third Samnite Wars. The period from about 350 to 280 BC saw the expansion of Roman power into southern Italy, the final elimination of Samnite power, and Roman conquest and assimilation of several Greek colonial cities in Italy.
Roman Samnium: Towns. In the time between the Samnite and Social Wars, a few Samnite cities acquired the “quality and dignity” of municipi. A municipium was a self governing community of non-Roman origin, annexed by Rome. Not sovereign, they kept their cultural identity, laws, religion, language and customs.
The Samnite was an early class of gladiator, quite popular during the period of the Roman Republic. Eventually, other gladiator types joined the roster, such as the Gaul-inspired Murmillo and the Thracian-inspired Thraex.