Myth: My dog or cat is too old to be spayed or neutered. Truth: Because early spaying or neutering is optimal, and with advanced techniques and safer anesthetic drugs, your pet can be safely spayed or neutered at 8 weeks of age and a weight of 2 pounds. 
Congratulations on your new kitten! Male kittens are usually neutered at between 4 to 6 months of age. However, the AVMA has endorsed early age neutering of dogs and cats 8 to 16 weeks of age. You and your vet can decide what is the best time starting in a few weeks. In sum, neutering your cat or kitten will increase your cat's expected life span and the quality of his life. As to cost, neutering should cost somewhere between $50 to $100. The amount may exclude blood work fees which could add another $50-100 to your cost. - Simba.
Weight. Kittens are generally eligible for spaying once they hit 6 weeks of age as long as they weigh enough. Female kittens must weigh a minimum of 2 pounds in order to get fixed. Make sure your cat is the appropriate weight before she undergoes the procedure. While 6 weeks of age may be healthy and effective for some kittens, this time frame may not be the wisest choice for others -- consider the runt. When it comes to the health and well-being of your little one, always proceed with the utmost care and caution.
Weight is usually a factor when spaying or neutering. Some vets will wait until the kitten weighs more than 2kgs, or 4lbs as to limit any possible risk with the anaesthetic. A … ge is also a factor. Usually 4-6 months is ideal for a spay, but it can be done any time after that. What age can you get a kitten spayed or neutered? Both male and female kittens can be spayed as early as 12 weeks of age, although this depends on the vet; many will now advocate early spaying whereas as others will prefer do … ing the procedure when the kitten is near four or five months old.
Common domestic (not purebred) cats probably ought to weigh from 8 to 12 pounds, and a male will weigh about 2 to 4 pounds more than a female. However, if you have a purebred Maine Coon, which is a naturally large cat, 18 pounds would be an acceptable weight. 4. Cats need about a cup of water (8 fluid ounces) per 8 to 10 pounds of body weight. If your cat eats only dry food, you need to be watchful of his fluid intake because his only source of liquid is the water bowl.
Neutering is a must for many reasons: In sum, neutering your cat or kitten will increase your cat's expected life span and the quality of his life. As to cost, neutering should cost somewhere between $50 to $100. The amount may exclude blood work fees which could add another $50-100 to your cost. - Simba.
Re: Kitten Weights, for early spay/neuter. There are four vets where I take my cats. Although they routinely spay and neuter kittens at eight weeks, three of the vets advise against it. I was told that the youngsters have a much higher chance of reacting adversely to anesthesia. Re: Kitten Weights, for early spay/neuter. With TNRing some feral kittens I get them done whenever I catch them. One place that does ferals for free has the rule of 2 lbs, 2 months and the other is 3 lbs, 3 months.
Weight is usually a factor when spaying or neutering. Some vets will wait until the kitten weighs more than 2kgs, or 4lbs as to limit any possible risk with the anaesthetic. Age is also a factor. Usually 4-6 months is ideal for a spay, but it can be done any time after that. A female tuxedo cat usually should weigh no more then 8 pounds. It is a very small cat, average house cats weigh ten pounds. If it is a mix of some bigger cat then it's normal … to be over that size. Also males will be a little bigger.
Domestic cats come in a huge variety of shapes and sizes, so the weight of a cat depends on how large or small it is. The average weight for a healthy domestic cat is around 3 … to 4 kilograms (6 to 9 pounds), but many can weigh more or less than that. The smallest adult domestic cats weigh about 1.3 kg (3 pounds) and the largest breeds weigh up to 6.5 kg (15 pounds). 2 people found this useful. A female tuxedo cat usually should weigh no more then 8 pounds. It is a very small cat, average house cats weigh ten pounds. If it is a mix of some bigger cat then it's normal … to be over that size. Also males will be a little bigger.
Both male and female kittens can be spayed as early as 12 weeks of age, although this varies somewhat from vet to vet. Cats usually reach sexual maturity around six months old … and some even younger at four months, so it is best to spay the kitten before then. 7 people found this useful. What age can you get a kitten spayed or neutered? Both male and female kittens can be spayed as early as 12 weeks of age, although this depends on the vet; many will now advocate early spaying whereas as others will prefer do … ing the procedure when the kitten is near four or five months old.