Most kinds of butterflies can be found in fields, but the most-well known is the Monarch which is easily-identified by its orange and black-veined wings (the females having da … rker veins). The Monarch can be found in a wide range of habitats such as fields, meadows, prairie remnants, urban and suburban parks, gardens, trees, and roadsides. It overwinters in conifer groves.
Different types of Butterflies. Butterflies can be found in fields, forests and residential areas of all fifty states. When people talk about different types of butterflies, often they are referring to the different buttefly families and subfamilies, whose names reflect shared physical characteristics of member species. The catepillar is fond of garden vegetables. Marbles, orangetips, yellows and dogfaces are also in the family. Riodinidae (metalmarks): They are typically small brown butterflies, found in the Southwest and Rio Grande valley. Butterflies can be found in fields, forests and residential areas of all fifty states.
Tags: families, skippers, species, swallowtails. Butterflies can be found in fields, forests and residential areas of all fifty states. When people talk about different types of butterflies, often they are referring to the different buttefly families and subfamilies, whose names reflect shared physical characteristics of member species. The catepillar is fond of garden vegetables. Marbles, orangetips, yellows and dogfaces are also in the family. Riodinidae (metalmarks): They are typically small brown butterflies, found in the Southwest and Rio Grande valley. Butterflies can be found in fields, forests and residential areas of all fifty states.
Types of Butterflies. The types of butterflies native to the world's fields, forests and residential areas, present themselves to humans both formally and informally. Informally, butterfly species present themselves as the colorful, winged insects associated with flowers and warm, sunny days. 
There are many types of butterflies that can be found in fields. They include Monarch butterflies, Painted Lady butterfly, Red Admiral butterfly, Summer Azure butterfly, and the Tiger Swallowtail butterfly. The Monarch can be found in a wide range of habitats such as fields, meadows, prairie remnants, urban and suburban parks, gardens, trees, and roadsides. It overwinters in conifer groves.
There are many types of butterflies that can be found in fields.  They include Monarch butterflies, Painted Lady butterfly, Red  Admiral butterfly, Summer Azure butterfly, a … nd the Tiger  Swallowtail butterfly. 14 people found this useful. Peter Forrest. The Monarch can be found in a wide range of habitats such as fields, meadows, prairie remnants, urban and suburban parks, gardens, trees, and roadsides. It overwinters in conifer groves.
This field guide to Indiana’s rich butterfly fauna covers all 149 species of butterflies and their close relatives, the skippers. Over 500 color photographs illustrate the undersides and uppersides of most species and highlight the variations found among them, both seasonally and between males and females. 