Species richness, very simply, is a count of the different species in a given ecosystem, region or particular area. You make the assumption that each organism constitutes a single species. Definition. Species richness, very simply, is a count of the different species in a given ecosystem, region or particular area. You make the assumption that each organism constitutes a single species. Imagine a picture of a lake.
Tropical rain forest have the biggest diversity.From both flora and fauna. ;-) In fact, some biome lists omit the ocean biome entirely, which is really unfort … unate. Ocean biomass does tend to be less dense than that of rainforests (per unit volume), but the original question seemed to be about size, not density.
The rainforest biome contains 50% of all the species in the world, making it the most diverse biome, and home to the greatest amount of species. 1 person found this useful. ;-) In fact, some biome lists omit the ocean biome entirely, which is really unfort … unate. Ocean biomass does tend to be less dense than that of rainforests (per unit volume), but the original question seemed to be about size, not density.
Lesson Summary. Species richness is a count of the number of species in a given habitat or ecosystem. Unlike species diversity, species richness does not take species abundance into account. One factor which is important to consider when measuring species richness is sampling methodology. Definition. Species richness, very simply, is a count of the different species in a given ecosystem, region or particular area. You make the assumption that each organism constitutes a single species. Imagine a picture of a lake.
– the number of kinds of things, and. the relative abundance of things. Most commonly these terms are used with reference to species diversity, a concept that includes species richness (the number of species) and species evenness (the relative abundances of the different species). That makes 8 habitat types. For fine-scale richness, count all the total number of habitat types that are represented by summing the indented types and the non-indented habitats which have no finer-scale classification (e.g. Open water and Developed).
So, in this lake community, the species richness would have a value of three. One important thing to keep in mind is the difference between species richness and species diversity. Species diversity takes the abundance, or number of individuals, of different species into account, while species richness does not. Definition. Species richness, very simply, is a count of the different species in a given ecosystem, region or particular area. You make the assumption that each organism constitutes a single species. Imagine a picture of a lake.
Tropical rain forests occur in regions near the equator. The climate is always warm (between 20° and 25° C) with plenty of rainfall (at least 190 cm/year). The rain forest is probably the richest biome, both in diversity and in total biomass. The tropical rain forest has a complex structure, with many levels of life. 
Species Diversity Introduction [edit]. Species Richness (s) is a relative term that refers to the number of species in a community, and is directly associated with measuring the diversity of species in a given area. 
Figure 1.2. Comparisons for the 14 Terrestrial Biomes of the World in Terms of Species Richness, Family Richness, and Endemic Species. Figure 1.3. The 8 Biogeographical Realms and 14 Biomes Used in the MA. Figure 1.4. Biodiversity, Ecosystem Functioning, and Ecosystem Services. Figure 2. Direct cross-links to the Global Assessment Reports of the Millennium Assessment. Box 1. Biodiversity and Its Loss— Avoiding Conceptual Pitfalls. Box 1.1. Linkages among Biodiversity, Ecosystem Services, and Human Well-being. Box 1.2.
Comparisons for the 14 Terrestrial Biomes of the World in Terms of Species Richness, Family Richness, and Endemic Species. Figure 1.3. The 8 Biogeographical Realms and 14 Biomes Used in the MA. Figure 1.4. Direct cross-links to the Global Assessment Reports of the Millennium Assessment. Box 1. Biodiversity and Its Loss— Avoiding Conceptual Pitfalls. Box 1.1. Linkages among Biodiversity, Ecosystem Services, and Human Well-being. Box 1.2.