Glucose syrup is used in foods to sweeten, soften texture and add volume. By converting some of the glucose in corn syrup into fructose (using an enzymatic process), a sweeter product, high fructose corn syrup can be produced. Maize (corn) is commonly used as the source of the starch in the US, in which case the syrup is called  corn syrup , but glucose syrup is also made from potatoes and wheat, and less often from barley, rice and cassava. p. 21.
Corn syrup is a food syrup which is made from the starch of maize (called corn in some countries) and contains varying amounts of maltose and higher oligosaccharides, depending on the grade. Corn syrup is distinct from high-fructose corn syrup (HFCS), which is manufactured from corn syrup by converting a large proportion of its glucose into fructose using the enzyme D-xylose isomerase, thus producing a sweeter compound due to higher levels of fructose.
Glucose Syrup and Corn Syrup. Glucose syrup is a liquid sweetener made from hydrolyzing glucose molecules from the strings of glucose that make up starchy foods. Starches used to make glucose syrup include potato, wheat, rice and corn. Corn syrup is a also a liquid sweetener that's made by hydrolyzing cornstarch into glucose. As added sugars, glucose syrup and corn syrup aren't much different. In fact, glucose syrup is usually made from cornstarch, so the terms glucose syrup and corn syrup are sometimes used interchangeably. No matter what sweetener you use, however, for good health it's best to limit your intak
Glucose-Fructose Syrup is a liquid sweetener used in the manufacturing of foods and beverages. GFS is composed of different simple sugars, mainly glucose and fructose, with varying compositions. The fructose content can range from 5% to 50%. If the fructose makes up more than 50% of the syrup, the name on the ingredient listing should read Fructose-Glucose Syrup.
Glucose is a monosaccharide, which means it is a single molecule and often referred to as a simple sugar. Glucose is found naturally in fruits and honey, and it's also found in processed foods. Glucose syrup is created by hydrolyzing, or breaking apart, the strings of glucose molecules that make up starchy foods. Glucose syrup is most commonly made from cornstarch, but wheat, potatoes and rice are also used to make the sweetener. Glucose Syrup Uses. Glucose syrup is a liquid sweetener that is well-tolerated and very versatile. It's often used in commercial canned and baked goods as well as to make beer.
Glucose syrup containing over 90% glucose is used in industrial fermentation, but syrups used in confectionery contain varying amounts of glucose, maltose and higher oligosaccharides, depending on the grade, and can typically contain 10% to 43% glucose. Maize (corn) is commonly used as the source of the starch in the US, in which case the syrup is called  corn syrup , but glucose syrup is also made from potatoes and wheat, and less often from barley, rice and cassava. p. 21.
Glucose syrup, also known as confectioner's glucose, is a syrup made from the hydrolysis of starch. Glucose is a sugar. Maize (corn) is commonly used as the source of the starch in the US, in which case the syrup is called  corn syrup , but glucose syrup is also made from potatoes and wheat, and less often from barley, rice and cassava. p. 21.
Ingredients. The basic ingredient in glucose syrup is glucose itself. Glucose may also be called d-glucose, dextrose, grape sugar or corn syrup; it is naturally occurring in most plants such as corn, grapes and other fruits. It can also be created when water is added to sugars such as lactose or cellulose. 