Horses with kidney disease can develop elevated calcium because the kidneys excrete excess calcium into the urine. Blood sodium, chloride, and potassium can be low because the renal tubules normally maintain the correct concentrations of these electrolytes between the urine and blood.
The kidneys consist of an outer part (cortex) and an inner part (medulla). The nephrons filter the blood and produce urine. Determining the cause of chronic kidney disease, especially in the early stages, will help determine the appropriate treatment and allow your veterinarian to determine the outlook for your horse.
The loss of protein through the urine can cause loss of muscle tissue. Most horses with glomerular disease eventually develop chronic kidney disease and kidney failure. A biopsy of the kidneys is often required to determine the cause of the glomerular disease. Additional tests may be necessary in some cases, including x-rays, ultrasonography, and special blood tests.
Some clinicians have recommended supplementing omega-3 fatty acids to horses with kidney disease. Omega-3 fatty acids have beneficial anti-inflammatory activity and may reduce renal inflammation without the possible adverse effects of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.
There are many causes of chronic kidney disease. The kidneys may be affected by diseases such as diabetes and high blood pressure. Some kidney conditions are inherited (run in families). Others are congenital; that is, individuals may be born with an abnormality that can affect their kidneys.
Kidney stones in both kidneys are common in adult horses that have been used for performance. Over time, these stones may repeatedly block the ureter and cause kidney failure (see Kidney and Urinary Tract Disorders of Horses: Chronic Kidney Disease and Kidney Failure).
Of course, the extremely low incidence of equine kidney disease makes it a pretty safe bet that your horse won't be stricken. But you can keep your mind at ease and deepen your appreciation for that wet bedding you remove each day from his stall by gaining some vital insights on those truly remarkable kidneys.
Serious kidney (renal) disease in horses is fairly uncommon. Clinical signs of kidney disease can be difficult to differentiate from other conditions but include lethargy, depression, inappetence, ulcers on the mouth or tongue, and edema or swelling of the legs and lower abdomen.
Anemia may be seen in horses with liver dysfunction due to parasitic diseases, chronic copper toxicity, some plant poisonings, or longterm inflammatory diseases or destruction of red blood cells. Weight loss is a common sign in longterm liver disease and may be the only sign associated with liver abscesses.