Early Origins. The Continental is one of the largest and oldest breeds of rabbit, with documentary records suggesting that they may have been around as far back as the mid-16th Century. Most Continentals are descended from the even more ancient Flemish Giant, a breed that originated in Ghent, Belgium. 
The father and son are a pair of continental rabbits, which are the largest breed of rabbit and have been known to grow up to 4 feet. Darius already bounced passed that mark, at 4 feet 4 inches long -- and his son isn't far behind. They are big rabbits for sure-but I raise Flemish Giants (the largest breed recognized by the American Rabbit Breaders Association) and I have PLENTY of rabbits over three feel and topping twenty+ pounds ... None at four feet-but I notice what is MISSING from this story is weight of the rabbit. Share.
Caring for large rabbit breeds will be even more of a problem as some giant rabbit breeds can grow to be as big as spaniels. One of the largest rabbit breeds is known as the German Grey Giant and these animals are known to grow as large as some mid sized dogs. Giant rabbit breeds can be fed appropriate quantities of dry pellets during the day that should be available at your local pet store and substantial quantities of good quality hay towards the evenings to allow them their more natural diets.
The largest breed of rabbit is the Flemish Giant. The full grown Flemish Giant had a minimum weight of 13 pounds for bucks and a min. of 14 pounds for does. They have no maximum weight. And I know the other guy said that they have a way better temperment than small breeds but this is not true. You can find the sweetest rabbit in any breed and also the meanest in any breed. It's not the breed it's the rabbit. All rabbits have different personalities. Not entirely sure what this question is asking. But to cover all the bases: All breeds of rabbits can be mixed to created a mixed breed rabbit. At the fundamental level, they … have all been descended from the same species, the wild European rabbit.
The Flemish Giant is a breed of domestic rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus) known for its large size. The first standards for the breed were written in 1893. The Flemish Giant is an ancestor of many rabbit breeds all over the world, one of which is the Belgian Hare, imported into England in the mid 19th century. The Flemish Giant was exported from England and Belgium to America in the early 1890s to help improve the size of meat rabbits during the great rabbit boom
As a generalization of giant rabbit breeds, however, the biggest of them is known as the Flemish giant and, on an average, they are likely to weight in about 15 pounds. One of the distinctive features of these giant rabbit breeds is the kind of fur that they sport. Giant rabbit breeds can be fed appropriate quantities of dry pellets during the day that should be available at your local pet store and substantial quantities of good quality hay towards the evenings to allow them their more natural diets.
Today, one of the largest varieties of rabbits is the Flemish Giant. There is some ambiguity to how they first came into existence, but they entered the English rabbit scene in 1860. Originally they were raised as a source of meat among families. Today, they are mostly seen in 4H shows and as pets. In 2011, the skeleton of the world’s largest rabbit breed was discovered on the Spanish Island of Minorca. Known as the Minorcan King of Rabbits, they weighed nearly 30 pounds, about six times the weight of your average rabbit.
Continental Giants are the largest breed of rabbit and can grow to around 4ft when fully grown but Darius-who is officially four foot four inches long-and Jeff come from a bumper crop. Jeff was born after Ms Edwards introduced Darius to one of her other rabbits Sally-another Continental Giant who measures 3ft 5 inches. 