The basic concept behind hemispheric dominance is that most people tend to naturally be more strongly left-brained or right-brained. Much like most people have a dominant hand, eye, and foot, most people also have a dominant hemisphere of the brain. Hemispheric dominance refers to which side of the brain is dominant in a person, and this often reflects how a person thinks and learns best.
Cerebral Dominance. Each hemisphere of the brain is dominant for other behaviors. For example, it appears that the right brain is dominant for spatial abilities, face recognition, visual imagery and music. The left brain may be more dominant for calculations, math and logical abilities. Are you right-handed or left-handed? As you probably know, most people (about 90% of the population) are right-handed-they prefer to use their right hand to write, eat and throw a ball. Another way to refer to people who use their right hand is to say that they are dominant.
Left-brain dominant people are more likely to be clinical and cold in their judgments and problem solving. Language recognition is a function of the left hemisphere, too, and that makes languages easier for those with left-brain dominance. 
Most theories suggest that right-brain dominant people are guided by the more emotional, intuitive right hemisphere while left-brain people respond in sequential, logical ways, guided by the left hemisphere. To a great degree, your personality is shaped by your brain type. Your dominant brain type has a very significant affect on your study skills, homework habits, and grades. For instance, some students may struggle with specific assignment types or test questions, based on their specific brain types.
right brain; right hemisphere (the cerebral hemisphere to the right of the corpus callosum that controls the left half of the body). Holonyms (hemisphere is a part of...): cerebrum (anterior portion of the brain consisting of two hemispheres; dominant part of the brain in humans). neural structure (a structure that is part of the nervous system). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of hemisphere): left brain; left hemisphere (the cerebral hemisphere to the left of the corpus callosum that controls the righ
Hemispheric dominance refers to the way in which the two major sides of the brain function and how the processes and thoughts of a person are typically guided by each side. The human brain is, essentially, separated into two major sections referred to as the right brain and left brain. Hemispheric dominance refers to which side of the brain is dominant in a person, and this often reflects how a person thinks and learns best.
The control of speech and handedness by one hemisphere of the brain. In 90% to 95% of human beings, the left cerebral hemisphere is functionally dominant; as a result most people are right-handed. A lesion (such as a stroke or tumor) to the left cerebral hemisphere of such people will produce aphasia and right-sided paralysis.
Answer by SapphireMoon. Confidence votes 12.2K. One side (hemisphere) of the brain--right or left--tends to dominate. A person who is left-hemisphere-dominant tends to be a more logical, linear thinker and more verbally oriented. A person who is right-hemisphere-dominant tends to think more in whole concepts and is more attuned to images and visual thinking.
dominant hemisphere. n. The cerebral hemisphere that is more involved than the other in governing certain body functions, such as controlling the arm and leg used preferentially in skilled movements. See also brain. cerebellar hemisphere either of the paired portions of the cerebellum lateral to the vermis. dominant hemisphere the cerebral hemisphere that is more concerned than the other in the integration of sensations and the control of many functions. See also laterality