Lab Refrigerator and Freezer Temperature Capability. Laboratory refrigerators typically operate from 2⁰C to 10⁰C and freezers from -10⁰C to -25⁰C although there are exceptions based on models. Low-temperature freezers again depending on models are available for temperatures to – 25⁰, -30⁰ and -40⁰C. Ultra-low temperature freezers can be set from -50⁰ to -86⁰C. Undercounter/Countertop Laboratory Refrigerators and Freezers. Undercounter, countertop and stackable lab freezers and refrigerators are great for saving space but are more susceptible to temperature fluctuations because of their size.
A freezer temperature range of –20 to –40 °C provides safe and stable storage conditions for many types of cells and reagents. The quality and suitability of the lab freezer, however, are often taken for granted when in reality the lab may be using an outdated or even a malfunctioning unit. Lab freezers with auto-defrost. Temperature stability is one of the most important features of a laboratory freezer. The choice of a manual or auto-defrost freezer will depend on the stability needs of the samples stored inside.
That can mean a lifecycle energy cost saving of $1,500 for a lab refrigerator and $2,500 for a freezer.” And, when it comes to ultra-low temperature (ULT) freezers, the energy and cost savings can be even greater. A Temperature For Every Taste. Lab refrigerators and freezers are arguably the most common appliance in laboratories. Lab units are similar in construction to household refrigerators and freezers, and come in a variety of temperature ranges, shapes and sizes.
Blood, biological samples, and vaccines typically require temperatures of –30 to –40 °C. Laboratory freezers often resemble the freezers that many people have in their homes, but with upgraded features like auto-defrost and programmable alarms for research applications. Lab freezers with auto-defrost. Temperature stability is one of the most important features of a laboratory freezer. The choice of a manual or auto-defrost freezer will depend on the stability needs of the samples stored inside.
This refrigerator/freezer has an independent door for both the refrigerator section and the freezer section. Overall capacity is 18.2 cubic feet. Refrigerator temperature ranges from 1° to 12°C (34° to 54°F); freezer temperature ranges from -10° to -21°C (14° to -6°F). With ABS plastic interior, and textired powder coated steel exterior. Automatic defrost only. Refrigerator temperatures range from 1° to 12°C (34° To 54°F); freezer temperatures from -12° to -20°C (10° to -4°F). Some models are available in either 120 volts/60 Hz or 240 volts/50 Hz.
Choose from a complete line of refrigerators, freezers, and combination refrigerator/freezers designed for general laboratory use. Capacities range from 1.7 to 20 cubic feet (0.05 m³ to 0.6 m³). Refrigerator temperatures range from 1° to 12°C (34° To 54°F); freezer temperatures from -12° to -20°C (10° to -4°F). Some models are available in either 120 volts/60 Hz or 240 volts/50 Hz. All models come with a 24-month warranty
In the life science lab, most valuable samples and materials are stored in refrigerator freezers. Key specifications for choosing a lab freezer include usage/application, freezer type, configuration, temperature range, temperature stability, and energy efficiency. Lab freezers with auto-defrost. Temperature stability is one of the most important features of a laboratory freezer. The choice of a manual or auto-defrost freezer will depend on the stability needs of the samples stored inside.
By Other Author | August 10, 2012. Freezers and refrigerators are an integral part of any laboratory that requires temperature controlled storage. Maintaining samples at an optimal temperature while in storage is vital for many lab professionals and this makes choosing the right freezer or refrigerator a crucial task
Section 1: Scope 1.1 This SOP covers the monitoring of temperatures in refrigerators/freezers used for the chilling and storage of vaccines and pharmaceuticals in the medical clinic and pharmacy sections of UCSC Student Health. A separate policy applies to the Laboratory. 1.2 The applicable range of the digital thermometer used for refrigerators is 2 to 8 degrees Celsius or 36 to 46 degrees Fahrenheit. The range for freezers is -5 to -30 degrees Celsius. Section 2: Applicable Instrumentation 2.1 An electronic digital thermometer with high/low temperature alarm function is used to continuously monitor temperatures of refrigerators where vaccines and medication are chilled or stored