Confirm that the mother is not feeding the kittens. Before you take a baby rabbit away from its mother or think it’s orphaned, make sure the mother is not feeding it or that she is a risk to the kitten. Mother rabbits feed their kittens about twice a day. Baby rabbits may begin eating solid foods when their eyes open, at about 10 days after birth. You can slowly add solid foods to their formula diet until they are weaned at about 6 weeks old. Don’t feed baby rabbits solid foods before their eyes open. Their intestinal tracts cannot handle solids before this point.
Once the baby bunnies open their eyes, at about 2 weeks, you can start introducing them to solid foods. You can feed the same sort of food you feed adult rabbits -- timothy or grass hay and commercial pellets -- to the little guys. If the mother rabbit died shortly after giving birth, you must make sure the babies receive colostrum, the nutrient-packed first milk. Your vet should provide you with colostrum or colostrum tablets to mix into the formula. Ask your vet how long you should feed the colostrum.
With good care and luck, orphaned rabbits can grow up to be healthy bunnies. Digital Vision/Photodisc/Getty Images. If you know the mother of domestic baby rabbits is dead or seriously ill, you can attempt to raise the kits, as they're called. If the mother rabbit died shortly after giving birth, you must make sure the babies receive colostrum, the nutrient-packed first milk. Your vet should provide you with colostrum or colostrum tablets to mix into the formula. Ask your vet how long you should feed the colostrum.
1-2 weeks: 5-7 cc/ml each feeding (two feedings per day). (depending on bunny..may be much LESS if smaller rabbit!) Newborn babies (if eyes closed) all need to be stimulated to urinate and defecate prior to or following feeding until their eyes open. (Except Jackrabbits do not). *See how to below. You will not see the mom. The mom will only come back in the middle of the night to feed her babies. If the mom was killed, the best thing you can do for a wild orphaned baby bunny is to get in touch with a skilled rehabilitator.
Purchase replacement milk for the baby rabbits. If you are going to feed baby rabbits, you’ll need to purchase replacement milk for them. Rabbit milk is the most caloric of all mammals’ milk, so you’ll need to make sure you get the proper replacement and amounts. Baby rabbits may begin eating solid foods when their eyes open, at about 10 days after birth. You can slowly add solid foods to their formula diet until they are weaned at about 6 weeks old. Don’t feed baby rabbits solid foods before their eyes open. Their intestinal tracts cannot handle solids before this point.
Older baby bunnies who are found outside of the nest may not be orphaned or in need of assistance. This is most often the case. Baby cottontails are born without fur but develop a full coat in a week. Their eyes open in 10 days, and in three to four weeks they are weaned. You will not see the mom. The mom will only come back in the middle of the night to feed her babies. If the mom was killed, the best thing you can do for a wild orphaned baby bunny is to get in touch with a skilled rehabilitator.
WHAT TO FEED THE BABIES. Baby rabbits should be fed Kitten Milk Replacer (KMR) or goat milk, which you can buy at pet stores, or sometimes even a local veterinarian’s office. Because rabbit milk is the most caloric of all mammals, we add in one tablespoon of 100% heavy whipping cream (no sugar) to each can of KMR. 
Feeding Amounts for DOMESTIC/PET Orphaned babies*: Feed twice a day up to these amounts: Newborn– 2.5 cc/ml each feeding. One week old: 6-7 cc/ml each feeding. Two weeks old: 12-13 cc/ml each feeding. You will not see the mom. The mom will only come back in the middle of the night to feed her babies. If the mom was killed, the best thing you can do for a wild orphaned baby bunny is to get in touch with a skilled rehabilitator.
Baby rabbits are small, sweet and furry animals that can require a lot of care. Whether you find a nest of orphaned babies, which are also called kittens, or your pet rabbit has rejected her babies, you may need to feed the rabbits to help them thrive. Baby rabbits may begin eating solid foods when their eyes open, at about 10 days after birth. You can slowly add solid foods to their formula diet until they are weaned at about 6 weeks old. Don’t feed baby rabbits solid foods before their eyes open. Their intestinal tracts cannot handle solids before this point.
Feeding Baby Rabbits. Feeding baby rabbits falls mostly to the mother rabbit for the first 3 weeks of the bunny’s life. Between 3 weeks and around 6 weeks old, the baby rabbits need less and less of mom, and more and more pellets and hay. Survival rate for bottle-fed infant bunnies is as low as 0 - 10% , especially if the babies are orphaned before their eyes open. That means 9 out of 10 (or worse) usually don’t survive. There’s a number of reasons bunnies fail to survive without their mums.