The stretch reflex; which is also often called the myotatic reflex, knee-jerk reflex, or deep tendon reflex, is a pre-programmed response by the body to a stretch stimulus in the muscle. The stretch reflex can be activated by external forces (such as a load placed on the muscle) or internal forces (the motor neurons being stimulated from within.) An example of the former is a person holding an empty tray in their outstretched arm and then having a plate of food set on it.
These findings demonstrate that post-activation depression is an important factor in the evaluation of stretch reflex excitability and muscle stiffness in spasticity, and they strengthen the hypothesis that reduced post-activation depression plays a role in the pathophysiology of spasticity. Similarly, the stretch-evoked torque decreased. In the spastic participants, the post-activation depression of both reflexes and the stretch-evoked torque was significantly smaller than in healthy participants.
The stretch reflex is caused by a stretch in the muscle spindle. When the stretch impulse is received a rapid sequence of events follows. The motor neuron is activated and the stretched muscles, and its supporting muscles, are contracted while its antagonist muscles are inhibited. The stretch reflex can be activated by external forces (such as a load placed on the muscle) or internal forces (the motor neurons being stimulated from within.) An example of the former is a person holding an empty tray in their outstretched arm and then having a plate of food set on it.
1 Nerve root: Stretch reflexes subserved by the root are depressed in proportion to the contribution that root makes to the reflex. 2  Superficial reflexes are rarely depressed since there is extensive overlap in the distribution of individual nerve roots of the skin and muscle tested in the superficial reflexes. Normal muscle stretch reflexes result in contraction only of the muscle whose tendon is stretched and the agonist muscles (i.e., muscles that have the same action). There is also inhibition of antagonist muscles. Reflexes are graded at the bedside in a semi-quantitative manner.
Another example of the stretch reflex is the knee-jerk test performed by physicians. When the patellar tendon is tapped with a small hammer, or other device, it causes a slight stretch in the tendon, and consequently the quadriceps muscles. The stretch reflex can be activated by external forces (such as a load placed on the muscle) or internal forces (the motor neurons being stimulated from within.) An example of the former is a person holding an empty tray in their outstretched arm and then having a plate of food set on it.
10 most extreme places on Earth. A stretch reflex, also referred to as a deep tendon reflex or myotatic stretch reflex, is a physical response to the extension of a muscle. In essence, it is a process that causes a contraction, thereby stopping a stretch. The stretch reflex prevents people from overextending their muscles. Protective response is what prevents muscles from being stretched too far. Before a workout, take time to gently and slowly stretch the muscles in order to help prevent any muscle damage.
Some reflexes, such as the muscle stretch reflex, are semi-quantitatively graded. This is also true for responses such as the pupillary light reflex, where the speed of reaction may indicate a sluggish response. On the other hand, many reflexes are simply noted as present or absent. Normal muscle stretch reflexes result in contraction only of the muscle whose tendon is stretched and the agonist muscles (i.e., muscles that have the same action). There is also inhibition of antagonist muscles. Reflexes are graded at the bedside in a semi-quantitative manner.
The stretch reflex (myotatic reflex) is a muscle contraction in response to stretching within the muscle. It is a monosynaptic reflex which provides automatic regulation of skeletal muscle length. When a muscle lengthens, the muscle spindle is stretched and its nerve activity increases. A sudden stretch, such as tapping the Achilles' tendon, causes a reflex contraction in the muscle as the spindles sense the stretch and send an action potential to the motor neurons which then cause the muscle to contract; this particular reflex causes a contraction in the soleus-gastrocnemius group of muscles.
Examination of myotatic (deep tendon) reflexes. The muscle stretch (myotatic) reflex is a simple reflex, with the receptor neuron having direct connections to the muscle spindle apparatus in the muscle and with the alpha motor neurons in the central nervous system that send axons back to that muscle (Figure 8-1). Normal muscle stretch reflexes result in contraction only of the muscle whose tendon is stretched and the agonist muscles (i.e., muscles that have the same action). There is also inhibition of antagonist muscles. Reflexes are graded at the bedside in a semi-quantitative manner.
The stretch reflex is very important in posture. It helps maintain proper posturing because a slight lean to either side causes a stretch in the spinal, hip and leg muscles to the other side, which is quickly countered by the stretch reflex. This is a constant process of adjusting and maintaining. The stretch reflex can be activated by external forces (such as a load placed on the muscle) or internal forces (the motor neurons being stimulated from within.) An example of the former is a person holding an empty tray in their outstretched arm and then having a plate of food set on it.