Rental Availability Key. Your HOA fees can be deducted even if the property is temporarily vacant as long as it’s still available for rent. However, if you use the property yourself for part of the year and rent it our seasonally, you only can deduct the HOA fees for the time it is available for rent. You’ll have to pay taxes on the income you make from rental properties, but you also can deduct expenses associated with getting the property ready to rent and maintaining it thereafter. Homeowner association dues and condo fees fall into this category
All your rental expenses are deductible, though not always right away. Along with HOA fees, you can write off repairs, maintenance, landscaping, advertising, legal costs of eviction and money you pay to property managers. Loss Limit. If you turn a profit on your rental or rentals this year, you can deduct 100 percent of your expenses, including HOA fees. When you run in the red, the IRS won't let you write off the loss against your non-rental income. Instead, you carry it forward to deduct from next year's rental revenue.
If you live in your property year-round, then the HOA fees are not deductible. Though many costs of owning a home are deductible on your income taxes, including your mortgage interest and property taxes, the IRS does not allow you to deduct HOA fees, because they are considered an assessment by a private entity. If the home is a rental property, however, HOA fees do become deductible. In this case, the IRS considers HOA fees to be a deductible cost of maintaining the rental property You report the fees on Schedule E on your tax return. If your property is a second home or vacation home that you use personally but also rent out, things get a bit more complicated. You still can deduct HOA fees but only for the time the property is used as a rental. Say, for example, you live in the house from December through March and rent it out the rest of the year. In that case, you would be able to deduct two-thirds of your HOA fees, because you use it as a rental eight months out of 12
Best Answer: I've never heard of an HOA covering property taxes before, but.... Mortgage interest and property taxes are deductible IF you itemize deductions. Renting out one room of the house makes most expenses (partially) deductible, to the extent of gross rental income. · just now. Report Abuse. Only the portion of the HOA fee that represents the property taxes on YOUR unit is deductible. Normally your property taxes are not included in HOA fees and the portion that represents the taxes on the common areas isn't deductible by you.
Landlords and resident owners all have to pay the association dues. Tax write-offs are much more generous for rental property than for personal homes. For example, on personal homes, your homeowners association dues are a personal expense, and not an allowed deduction. A rental property is a business, however, so HOA fees are a business expense -- and a valid tax write-off. Loss Limit. If you turn a profit on your rental or rentals this year, you can deduct 100 percent of your expenses, including HOA fees. When you run in the red, the IRS won't let you write off the loss against your non-rental income. Instead, you carry it forward to deduct from next year's rental revenue.
If the HOA fees are for a separate rental property, you're in luck. Expenses on a rental house -- depreciation, repairs, property taxes, mortgage interest and HOA fees -- are 100 percent deductible against your rental income. If you use the house part of the time, you have to divide up HOA fees and other expenses. Home Office. If you use part of your home as an office, you can deduct part of your home expenses, including the fees. With an office that takes up 10 percent of the house you can write off 10 percent of utilities, mortgage interest, property taxes and HOA dues as business expenses.
Thinkstock/Stockbyte/Getty Images. You’ll have to pay taxes on the income you make from rental properties, but you also can deduct expenses associated with getting the property ready to rent and maintaining it thereafter. Homeowner association dues and condo fees fall into this category