Wilcannia is a small town in the Far West (Outback) region of the Australian state of New South Wales, some 974 km from the capital Sydney. It is located where the Barrier Highway crosses the River Darling in an isolated, low-rainfall area of the state. Founded in 1866 as a port on the upper Darling River, Wilcannia formed a base for European pastoral expansion into the region, previously occupied by its Aboriginal inhabitants, the Barkindji people. Most travellers arrive in Wilcannia by road along the Barrier Highway, a surfaced and well-used highway. Broken Hill is a couple of hours' drive west, and Cobar is a couple of hours' east. A slightly more adventurous route is from the south, along the Cobb Highway.
A lot of the schools that seem to do well in the awards were doing things like vegetable gardens, composting and recycling and then using using the product of the vegetable garden in the school canteen, so they are the sorts of things that can be done here, she said. There is quite a number of things that we could work on in Wilcannia to make the entry next year even better, we are just about to start here our driver reviver that will be starting after Christmas, she said.
Latest Women’s Group News. The Wilcannia Safe House invites all women of all nationalities in the Wilcannia and outlaying communities to come and be a part of the newly reviewed and refreshed Women’s Group. Wilcannia Safe House provides: 1  A drug and alcohol free environment where women can experience time out from violence and drunkenness, even if it’s just for the night. 2  Up to 3 months crisis accommodation with wrap around support women escaping domestic and family violence.
Location: Riverina. Re: Is Wilcannia safe. Don't know about now but about ten years ago a mate & myself were coming back to Brisbane from Perth with a truck load of racing cars & a trailer on the back. About 2 in the morning we broke the A frame on the trailer between Broken Hill & Wilcannia. There is quite a number of things that we could work on in Wilcannia to make the entry next year even better, we are just about to start here our driver reviver that will be starting after Christmas, she said.
Established in 2007 as part of a regional network of Safe Houses, the Wilcannia Safe House provides assistance to all women regardless of heritage, with specific skills to empower Aboriginal women to escape from violence and drunkenness. Wilcannia Safe House provides: 1  A drug and alcohol free environment where women can experience time out from violence and drunkenness, even if it’s just for the night. 2  Up to 3 months crisis accommodation with wrap around support women escaping domestic and family violence.
Re: Is Wilcannia safe. We had to stop for petrol, last year on the way to Broken Hill. The Shell servo on the highway was expensive, the BP around the back cheaper. I asked the bloke at the BP about the town, he said it was quiet, no worries. There is quite a number of things that we could work on in Wilcannia to make the entry next year even better, we are just about to start here our driver reviver that will be starting after Christmas, she said.
Wilcannia Bridge (1896) The bridge that crosses the Darling River at Wilcannia is an unusual centre–lift construction (if the paddlesteamers were too high it could be raised to allow them safe passage) which is now classified by the National Trust. Other Attractions in the Area. Tilpa The tiny township of Tilpa (it comes from a Barkindji word thulpa meaning flood waters) lies 145 km north east of Wilcannia on the Darling River. It is located on the Wilcannia-Bourke Road.
The unique stories of locals who live in the Central Darling Shire. You will find the stories quirky, humorous, but it will leave you with a warm and fuzzy feeling about the delights and unique qualities of living in the Central Darling Shire. These links will take you to youtube and away from our site. 
Wilcannia is located 948 km north west of Sydney via the Great Western, Mitchell and Barrier Highways. It is only 78 m above sea-level and the average rainfall is 252 mm per annum. Wilcannia reputedly means a gap in the bank where the flood waters escape in the Barkindji language of the local Aborigines. Other Attractions in the Area. Tilpa The tiny township of Tilpa (it comes from a Barkindji word thulpa meaning flood waters) lies 145 km north east of Wilcannia on the Darling River. It is located on the Wilcannia-Bourke Road.