Although soil erosion is a natural occurrence on all land, there are certain factors that call accelerate erosion making it more noticeable and problematic. While there are many different factors that can cause soil erosion, most can be broken down into two main categories: 1  Erosion by Water. 2  Erosion by Wind.
Water erosion comes in several different forms with various causes. No matter the differences, each form can be impacted by humans both negatively and positively. While the causes of erosion by water are generally natural, human impact will always play a role.
Soil erosion is a naturally occurring process that affects all landforms. In agriculture, soil erosion refers to the wearing away of a field's topsoil by the natural physical forces of water (Figure 1) and wind (Figure 2) or through forces associated with farming activities such as tillage.
Human Causes of Erosion. Human activity on and around the earths surface whether it is in your backyard or down the park are known to cause erosion 10 times more than naturally occurring processes. Human life has been the number on cause of erosion dating back to the first millennium.
Erosion is the process by which the surface of the Earth gets worn down. Erosion can be caused by natural elements such as wind and glacial ice. But anyone who has ever seen a picture of the Grand Canyon knows that nothing beats the slow steady movement of water when it comes to changing the Earth.
Soil erosion occurs when soil is removed through the action of wind and water at a greater rate than it is formed.
Erosion by Wind. Wind is a major type of erosion, especially in dry areas. Wind can erode by picking up and carrying loose particles and dust away (called deflation). It can also erode when these flying particles strike the land and break off more particles (called abrasion).
Erosion is the break down of soil particles contained in soil and dirt. Erosion occurs just as fast as it takes the soil to form so erosion consequences can be devastating if it is not controlled. Erosion problems whether they are little or small can definitely be controlled and prevented against soil erosion problems.
Erosion is a continual process, and it can be caused naturally or through artificial means. While many people associate erosion with negative things like land slides and poor soil conditions, it is an important part of the geologic processes which make the Earth what it is.
The movement of material by wind, water, ice, and gravity causes erosion, although mankind is increasingly assisting in that movement.