Polymyalgia and fibromyalgia are inflammatory conditions with symptoms that may be hard to tell apart. When you have polymyalgia, you feel pain and stiffness in the muscles in your shoulders, arms, hips, and neck. This feeling often comes after you’ve spent time resting. 
The exact cause of polymyalgia rheumatica is unknown, although immunological factors and familial tendencies (genetic predisposition) have been mentioned in the medical literature. Polymyalgia rheumatica is closely related to giant cell arteritis, another inflammatory disorder. Giant cell arteritis is characterized by progressive inflammation of many arteries of the body. These two disorders have been described in the medical literature as possible variants of the same disease process
Polymyalgia rheumatica is a disorder that results in severe pain and stiffness of large muscle groups in the body. Although its exact cause is not known, it may be due to a disruption in the function of the body’s immune system. Symptoms of polymyalgia rheumatica tend to appear suddenly and are usually moderate to severe in intensity. Muscle pain and stiffness are the characteristic symptoms. The neck, hips and shoulders are the areas most commonly affected.
Polymyalgia rheumatica is a rare inflammatory disease characterized by muscle pain (myalgia), stiffness, and additional generalized systemic symptoms such as fatigue, low-grade fever, and/or a general feeling of ill health (malaise). Polymyalgia rheumatica is closely related to giant cell arteritis, another inflammatory disorder. Giant cell arteritis is characterized by progressive inflammation of many arteries of the body.
Definition. Polymyalgia rheumatica is an inflammatory disorder that causes muscle pain and stiffness, especially in the shoulders. Symptoms of polymyalgia rheumatica (pol-e-my-AL-juh rue-MAT-ih-kuh) usually begin quickly and are worse in the morning. Most people who develop polymyalgia rheumatica are older than 65.
Polymyalgia rheumatica (which takes its name from the word πολυμυαλγία polymyalgia which means pain in many muscles in medical-scientific Greek) abbreviated as PMR, is a syndrome with pain or stiffness, usually in the neck, shoulders, upper arms, and hips, but which may occur all over the body. A wide range of symptoms can indicate if a person has polymyalgia rheumatica. The classic symptoms include: 1  Pain and stiffness (moderate to severe) in the neck, shoulders, upper arms, thighs, and hips, which inhibits activity, especially in the morning/after sleeping.
Polymyalgia rheumatica affects adults 55; the female:male ratio is 2:1. Because polymyalgia rheumatica is closely associated with giant cell arteritis (see Giant Cell Arteritis), some authorities consider the two disorders to be different phases of the same process. Multiple myeloma: In polymyalgia rheumatica, monoclonal gammopathy is absent. Fibromyalgia: In polymyalgia rheumatica, symptoms are more localized, ESR is typically elevated, and pain is present with palpation and range of motion (active and passive) of the shoulders, even when the patient is distracted.
As with polymyalgia rheumatica, the symptoms of giant cell arteritis quickly disappear with treatment; however, high doses of corticosteroids are typically maintained for 1 month. Once symptoms disappear and the sed rate is normal, there is much less risk of blindness. The treatment of choice for both polymyalgia rheumatica and giant cell arteritis is corticosteroid medication, such as prednisone. 2. 2 All medicines can have side effects. Some medicines and side effects are mentioned in this publication. Some side effects may be more severe than others.
Polymyalgia Rheumatica. Polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR) is an autoimmune disease that causes an inflammatory reaction affecting the lining of joints, especially the shoulders and hips, and sometimes the arteries and some major branches of the aorta. 