This form should be used to notify the Department of Immigration and Border Protection (the department) that you are:• appointing an authorised recipient to receive documents that the department would otherwise have sent to you; or• withdrawing the appointment of your authorised recipient.
If the visa applicant wants to appoint an authorised recipient who is not a migration agent/exempt person, then they will need to complete Form 956A-Appointment or withdrawal of an authorised recipient. 956A Appointment or withdrawal of Authorised Recipient (116KB PDF file) Notes: This is a new form.
l The agency must appoint an authorized representative if the client is not able to do so and is not able to provide information necessary to determine eligibility. This could be a relative or friend who is able to provide the necessary information. l The agency must appoint a social service professional as the applicant’s or enrollee’s authorized representative if no qualified person is available to act as an authorized representative.
A representative payee is a person or an organization. We appoint a payee to receive the Social Security or SSI benefits for anyone who can’t manage or direct the management of his or her benefits. . A payee’s main duties are to use the benefits to pay for the current and future needs of the beneficiary, and properly save any benefits not needed to meet current needs.
You may use this form for that purpose. Dependent applicants All persons listed on this form will be considered to have appointed the same authorised recipient.If a person 16 years of age or older wants to appoint a different authorised recipient they should complete a separate form 956A.
A representative payee is a person or organization authorized by the Social Security Administration (SSA) to cash and manage certain benefits checks -- Supplemental Security Income (SSI) and Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) -- for a person deemed unable to do so.
(f) (1) The following individuals shall not serve as an authorized representative for an applicant or recipient: (A) An individual who is prevented from being a provider of services pursuant to Section 12305.81. (B) An individual who is prevented from being a provider of services pursuant to Section 12305.87.