Steps On How To Fix Tire Cupping. Tire cupping is usually caused by worse tear, wear, and pressure on the surface of the tire. Tire cupping is sometimes referred to as tire scalloping. It is an uneven wear pattern that looks like little dips around the tread area. When there is cupping, you might notice a slight rumbling sound as the vehicle moves. Causes Of Tire Cupping. Tire cupping can be the result of either poor vehicle alignment, manufacturing defect, or improper inflation. Tire cupping causes may vary also. If the cupping is not that severe, you could still fix it. But if it severe, then you don’t have any choice but to change it into a new one.
When you slide your hand across the tire, you get the impression of the tread feeling like the teeth on a saw. This type of wear is more pronounced on some tires than others and is caused by the fact that in a motorcycle tire, the tread is rounded instead of flat like a car tire. It sounds to me that the tire is under-inflated which causes more wear on the outsides of the tread, than on the center. Over inflating causes the opposite and wears more on the center of the tread. I hope that ois what you were asking about, and with Motorcycle tires, when in doubt through it out!!!
Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co. says cupping is more common on front tires and the most likely causes are that the wheels are out of balance, the vehicle is misaligned or that suspension or steering parts are worn out. Tommy S. , Kansas City, Kan. Cupping, also known as dipping, tends to occur between the center of the tread and the edges in a “scalloped” or “feathered” wear pattern.
If not then you probrably have a tread wear problem. Cupping usually is the result of a suspension issue. i.e tire is bounceing thus causing a cupping pattern along the tread. Feather can be caused by improper alignment and or break / bearing issues. I would suggest a third opinion, as the first and second are not very detailed. 
TOM: Cupped tires are usually caused by bad struts. The purpose of the struts is to keep the tires from bouncing off the ground when you go over bumps. RAY: If the struts are really bad, the tires can literally bounce up and down like a basketball....badaboom... badaboom...badaboom... badaboom. Dear Tom and Ray: What is the cause of cupped tires?. We drive a 1988 Chrysler New Yorker. We rotate the tires every 5,000 miles. At 23,000 miles the Goodyear tires cupped and were replaced by Goodyear. Now, at 45,000 miles, the tires are cupped again. Chrysler blames the tires
What It Is. Tire cupping -- aka scalloping -- is a kind of tire wear consisting of regular divots or scoops carved out of the tire's tread. Depending on the location of the cupping, you may feel it as a vibration that increases with vehicle speed before you start seeing scoops of flat spots appear on the tire. Middle of the Tread. Scalloping can happen along the center of the tire's tread, or along one side. If it occurs down the middle of the tread, the cause usually goes back to the tire or suspension on that wheel regularly bouncing as it goes down the road.
When you have cupping wear on a tire it is from the tire bouncing on the road. You will want to check the air pressure in the tire and make sure you are running the maximum air pressure that is indicated on the tire. The load range (B, C) of the tire or the tire construction (bias, radial) will not make a difference in the problem with the cupping wear. The ST205/75-15 tire size in a load range B is rated at 1,480 lbs. at 35 psi. So total capacity of two tires on your single axle is 2,960 lbs.