THE SUMATRAN TIGER. It is estimated that only between 500-600 Sumatran tigers remain in the wild, and the actual number may be as low as 400. And their population is dwindling rapidly. A 1978 a tiger census reported around 1,000 Sumatran tigers still in the wild. This means over the last 25 years, the population of Sumatran tigers has been cut in half. The Sumatran tiger is considered to be a ‘critically’ endangered species. The Sumatran tiger is found only on the Indonesian island of Sumatra off the Malaysian Peninsula. Their habitat ranges from lowland forest to mountain forest and includes evergreen, swamp and tropical rain forests. 
The South China tiger is classified as critically endangered by the IUCN. Sumatran tigers (Panthera tigris sumatrae) are found only on the Indonesian island of Sumatra off the Malaysian Peninsula. Their habitat ranges from lowland forest to mountain forest and includes evergreen, swamp and tropical rain forests. The major threats to Sumatran tigers are habitat loss due to expansion of palm oil plantations, the planting of acacia plantations and illegal trade for tiger parts and products. The Sumatran
The Sumatran Tiger is mainly endangered by the destruction of its habitat and poaching. There is only about 500-600 in the world. The Sumatran tiger is endangered because the forests are getting cut down and their food is leaving so they can't eat. Also, people are hunting, they are selling their body parts, like bones. There are some in zoo's, but that's going to soon be the only place anyone will be able to see one
Zoos around the world, including Melbourne Zoo, have become part of the battle to prevent the extinction of this species. The Sumatran Tiger is classed as ‘critically endangered’ by the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (on the IUCN ‘red list’), with numbers in the wild falling. The animals remaining in the wild may number in the hundreds. The Sumatran Tiger is critically endangered with around 240 remaining in the wild. Despite hunting being illegal, tigers continue to be killed by poachers. You can help us fight extinction by adopting the Sumatran Tiger.
Sumatran tigers are the smallest surviving tiger subspecies and are distinguished by heavy black stripes on their orange coats. The last of Indonesia’s tigers—now fewer than 400—are holding on for survival in the remaining patches of forests on the island of Sumatra. This tiger subspecies is found only on the Indonesian island of Sumatra. Fewer than 400 Sumatran tigers exist today. In 1978, experts estimated the population of Sumatran tigers at 1,000.
The Sumatran tiger (Panthera tigris sumatrae) is a rare tiger subspecies that inhabits the Indonesian island of Sumatra. The Sumatran tiger is the only surviving member of the Sunda Islands group of tigers that included the now extinct Bali tiger and Javan tiger. Sequences from complete mitochondrial genes of 34 tigers support the hypothesis that Sumatran tigers are diagnostically distinct from mainland populations
Each tiger needs wide space. Sumatran Tigers are only live on the Indonesian island of Sumatra. The number of humans on the island is growing, and the forests are being lost. For each tiger to have enough prey, they need a wide space for themselves. On the island of Sumatra where the Sumatran Tigers live, forests are disappearing. Sumatran Tigers need a wider place to live. Forests get smaller, and the number of Sumatran Tigers is shrinking.
Sumatran tigers are critically endangered and according to the latest estimates there are currently less than 500 Sumatran tigers living in the wild. The main reason why Sumatran tigers are at the very brink of extinction is a rapid deforestation of Indonesian rainforests. Deforestation is taking heavy toll in Indonesia for more than a decade now and this has resulted in fewer habitats for these majestic animals. Despite the fact that the Indonesian Forestry Ministry has established programs for tiger conservation such as the foundation of Senepis Buluhala Tiger Sanctuary, Sumatran tigers still haven't been able to recover population, mostly because the Indonesian rainforests is still being heavily destroyed by illegal logging.