Compare To: See the name popularity of Breyah since 1880 and compare it to other names in both chart and table forms. View Breyah popularity trends, and how the popularity of Breyah has changed over time. All of our U.S. data comes from the Social Security Administration, which provides year popularity data for all names that have more than 5 occurences by gender. Mouse over the chart entries or scroll down to the table for data details. About the popularity data | Popular Name Data By Year.
Hello, Guest. Freya, the name of the Norse goddess of love, beauty and fertility, has long been popular in the U.K. but just beginning to be appreciated here. Freya could make a possible namesake for an ancestral Frieda. There is a Joseph Conrad novel titled Freya of the Seven Isles. Freya was one of the fastest-rising names of 2014, reaching 584 in the US Top 1000. In England and Wales, Freya is even more popular, reaching #21 in 2013. 
Meaning of Breya. Irish name. In Irish, the name Breya means-pure and spirited.The name Breya originated as an Irish name. The name Breya is most often used as a girl name or female name. Irish Name Meaning-pure and spirited
A person would be called by the word for an animal or force of nature in orde … r to bring valued attributes to that person. Later names described something about a person and referred to what they did, what they looked like or where they came from. As a result, most names derive from a word with some meaning. The meaning of a person's name can make them feel more noble or comfortable with who they are... being named after someone can cause a lot of introspection and either rebellion against that example, or close following of the same. + 3 others found this useful. Gerlie White.
Do not choose a baby first name based on these short name descriptions. Your baby's name must be in harmony with: your baby's birthdate (inner potential) and your family's surname (last name) It is essential that you understand the qualities of your family name. (viewable to Premium Members only). Below is a brief analysis of the first name only. For an analysis of your full name and destiny, see our full free Name and Birth Date Report service for further details.
Brea /brea/ [1 syll.] as a girls' name. Brea's name origins are English, Irish, Gaelic and Celtic, and the meaning of the name Brea is high, noble, exalted. Brea is a version of Breanna (English, Irish, Gaelic, Celtic): form spelling of Brianna. Braa is a conventional surname. Kreatif forms: Bebrea, Breabe, Brearu. 
Extended Description of this Name (viewable to Premium Members only). In the home you assume your responsibilities capably, having the self-confidence to form your own opinions and make your own decisions. Others can rely on you; once you have given your word you will do your utmost to fulfil a responsibility. (viewable to Premium Members only). Below is a brief analysis of the first name only. For an analysis of your full name and destiny, see our full free Name and Birth Date Report service for further details.
You also spelled especially wrong. If your name meaning starts out w … ith goddess of... as the name meaning, then it was either derived from the name of a mythological goddess or is the same name as the goddess in a given mythology. The meaning of a person's name can make them feel more noble or comfortable with who they are... being named after someone can cause a lot of introspection and either rebellion against that example, or close following of the same. + 3 others found this useful. Gerlie White.