The major causes of failure in hip replacement are: dislocation of the joint, loosening of the stem and cup, and failure of the stem. How to Recognize a Failing Hip Replacement. The major causes of failure in hip replacement are: dislocation of the joint, loosening of the stem and cup, and failure of the stem. Dislocation of the prosthesis can occur immediately after surgery if you move your leg into a prohibited position.
Brooks PJ(1). Author information: (1)Cleveland Clinic, 9500 Euclid Ave, A-41, Cleveland, Ohio, 44195, USA. Dislocation is one of the most common causes of patient and surgeon dissatisfaction following hip replacement and to treat it, the causes must first be understood. Late dislocation may result from polyethylene wear, soft-tissue destruction, trochanteric or abductor disruption and weakness, or infection. Understanding the causes of hip dislocation facilitates prevention in a majority of instances.
Motor vehicle collisions are the most common cause of traumatic hip dislocations. The dislocation often occurs when the knee hits the dashboard in a collision. This force drives the thigh backwards, which drives the ball head of the femur out of the hip socket. 
Common Hip Replacements Symptoms. Dislocation most commonly occurs within three months of hip replacement surgery, while the muscles and ligaments are still healing. It can happen instantaneously and without warning. Sometimes the patient will notice no symptoms at all. However, many patients report experiencing the following symptoms of dislocation : Hip Replacement Dislocation: Symptoms and Treatment. Hip replacement surgery has been a successful treatment for many people suffering from hip injuries or painful conditions such as arthritis. After surgery, patients can often return to activities like walking, swimming, biking, and other forms of recreation in time.
Acquired hip dislocation has the highest incidence rate immediately after hip replacement surgery and continues to have a high level for possibility of incidence throughout the first three months following the surgery. The incidence of hip dislocation following hip replacement surgery greatly depends on patient, surgical and hip implant factors. Preoperative hip range is the most likely the most influential contribution as to whether a hip is able to remain stable or not.
Dislocation of the hip is a common injury to the hip joint. Dislocation occurs when the ball–shaped head of the femur comes out of the cup–shaped acetabulum set in the pelvis. This may happen to a varying degree. The incidence of hip dislocation following hip replacement surgery greatly depends on patient, surgical and hip implant factors. Preoperative hip range is the most likely the most influential contribution as to whether a hip is able to remain stable or not.
The risk for dislocation is greatest in the first few months after surgery while the tissues are healing. If the ball does come out of the socket, your doctor can perform a procedure (called a closed reduction) that can usually put it back into place without the need for more surgery. 