Cost of living in Seattle, Washington (United States) is about the same as in Atlanta, Georgia (United States). 
We need your help: Add data for Atlanta, GA! You would need around 5,141.41$ in Seattle, WA to maintain the same standard of life that you can have with 4,200.00$ in Atlanta, GA (assuming you rent in both cities). This calculation uses our Consumer Prices Including Rent Index. Restaurant Prices in Seattle, WA are 10.81% higher than in Atlanta, GA. Groceries Prices in Seattle, WA are 4.61% higher than in Atlanta, GA. Local Purchasing Power in Seattle, WA is 3.4
Washington Cost of Living-Seattle. Compare average wages and the cost of living index for Seattle, Washington with cities in Washington or other states. Select one of the cost comparison and wage adjustment tools below. Cost of Living Comparison for Relocation.
Rent Prices in Seattle, WA are 53.61% higher than in Atlanta, GA. Restaurant Prices in Seattle, WA are 10.81% higher than in Atlanta, GA. Groceries Prices in Seattle, WA are 4.61% higher than in Atlanta, GA. Local Purchasing Power in Seattle, WA is 3.41% higher than in Atlanta, GA.
Unless, of course, you happen to be moving from an even pricier city such as New York or San Francisco. To see how the cost of living in Seattle compares to other areas, use PayScale's Cost of Living Calculator to get a Cost of Living Comparison for Seattle and other U.S. cities. 
Seattle is 59% more expensive than Atlanta. Housing is the biggest factor in the cost of living difference. Housing is 213% more expensive in Seattle. For Sale, ApartmentsSingle Family Rentals. Seattle Housing Options. For Sale, ApartmentsSingle Family Rentals. Atlanta Housing Options. Salary in Atlanta, GA | More details for Atlanta Jobs | Salary. Salary in Seattle, WA | More details for Seattle Jobs | Salary. A salary of $100,000 in Atlanta, Georgia should increase to $159,401 in Seattle, Washington. Atlanta U.S. Avg.
Salary.com's cost-of-living calculator will compare living-cost indexes and salary differentials to help you make an informed comparison. Learn how your disposable income will be affected by a relocation between any combination of 300-plus U.S. cities. 
7. Seattle: Seattle is the seventh most expensive city in America, says Expatistan. Worldwide, Seattle outranks cities like Shanghai, Milan, Madrid and Dubai for cost of living, making it the 44th most expensive city in the world. A sampling of Expatistan's Seattle prices : Dozen eggs: $2.42.