Turkey bacon is healthier than regular bacon when you’re trying to lose weight and reduce your chronic-disease risks. Additionally, turkey bacon provides you with numerous essential nutrients that are beneficial during weight loss. Sodium Concerns. Eat turkey bacon in moderation. Photo Credit bhofack2/iStock/Getty Images. Because turkey bacon is rich in sodium, choose lower-sodium varieties of bacon to help reduce your risk for high blood pressure and heart disease.
Micronutrients. Turkey bacon isn't a good source of vitamins and minerals. While each serving of turkey bacon provides 129 milligrams of phosphorus, or 13 percent of the DV, it also contains 640 milligrams of sodium, or 28 percent of the recommended daily limit of 2,300 milligrams per day for healthy people. Choosing bacon or turkey bacon made without nitrates will make your bacon a little bit less unhealthy, but processed meats in general tend to be the least healthy options when it comes to protein sources.
Although turkey bacon is lower in calories than regular bacon, turkey bacon is not a low-calorie food. According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s National Nutrient Database for Standard Reference, 1/2 cup of cooked turkey bacon contains 157 calories and provides about 12 grams of dietary protein. Sodium Concerns. Eat turkey bacon in moderation. Photo Credit bhofack2/iStock/Getty Images. Because turkey bacon is rich in sodium, choose lower-sodium varieties of bacon to help reduce your risk for high blood pressure and heart disease.
While turkey bacon definitely contains less fat and sodium than regular pork bacon, this does not mean it is a healthy food. It is a bit healthier, but both types of bacon are processed meats that are cured with sodium nitrate. Bacon is eaten with breakfast meals and as an ingredient in salads, but there is concern that its high fat and sodium content is not healthy. Many companies have gotten the word, and now offer turkey bacon, a lower sodium, lower fat alternative to pork bacon. Several companies now sell turkey bacon. While turkey bacon is not considered an overall healthy food, it stacks up a bit better in the numbers game compared to pork bacon
Turkey bacon is a more diet-friendly option than bacon. While turkey bacon may be healthier than regular pork bacon, it still isn't very healthy, especially for people who are on a diet. When you're dieting, every calorie counts, and you should try to get as many essential nutrients as you can along with each calorie consumed. Choosing bacon or turkey bacon made without nitrates will make your bacon a little bit less unhealthy, but processed meats in general tend to be the least healthy options when it comes to protein sources.
Most people switch over to Turkey bacon for health benefits, either they do not eat pork or they are looking for a leaner meat. Yes Turkey is a leaner meat than pork or beef, but what people tend to forget is that Turkey bacon is not 100% made from Turkey. There are tons of chemical additives added to the Turkey in order to make the strip. Bacon is a cut of meat from a pig – you cannot cut a slab of turkey bacon off of a turkey.
. . one answer at a time. No. Turkey bacon is not considered healthy. Honestly, there is not a lot of difference in the nutritional content of pork bacon as compared with turkey bacon. A serving of turkey bacon has slightly fewer calories and less fat, but not by much. A 2-ounce serving of pork bacon contains 268 calories, while a 2-ounce serving of turkey bacon has 218 calories.
Although it’s generally OK to include small portions of turkey bacon in a weight-loss meal plan, other protein-rich options contain just much – if not more -- protein but contain fewer calories than turkey bacon– which is beneficial when you’re trying to shed pounds. Sodium Concerns. Eat turkey bacon in moderation. Photo Credit bhofack2/iStock/Getty Images. Because turkey bacon is rich in sodium, choose lower-sodium varieties of bacon to help reduce your risk for high blood pressure and heart disease.
1 Fact: Turkey bacon contains more sodium than regular bacon – usually twice as much. 2  Fact: Not all Turkey bacons are equal – There is a huge difference between the turkey bacon in the supermarket and what you find at Trader Joe’s and Whole Foods, both in taste and in chemicals. Yes Turkey is a leaner meat than pork or beef, but what people tend to forget is that Turkey bacon is not 100% made from Turkey. There are tons of chemical additives added to the Turkey in order to make the strip. Bacon is a cut of meat from a pig – you cannot cut a slab of turkey bacon off of a turkey.