The Ganges River, also called Ganga, is a river located in northern India that flows toward the border with Bangladesh (map). It is the longest river in India and flows for around 1,569 miles (2,525 km) from the Himalayan Mountains to the Bay of Bengal. Pollution of the Ganges River. Despite the religious significance and daily importance of the Ganges River for the people of India, it is one of the most polluted rivers in the world. Pollution of the Ganges is caused by both human and industrial waste due to India's rapid growth as well as religious events.
The River Ganges, also known as the Ganga, flows 2,700 km from the Himalaya mountains to the Bay of Bengal in northern India and Bangladesh. Regarded as sacred by Hindus, the river is personified as the goddess Ganga in ancient texts and art. Ritual bathing in the Ganges was and is an important part of Hindu pilgrimage and the ashes of the cremated are often spread across her waters.
The Ganges river is an important cultural aspect to the Hindu population, however researches have found that the Ganges water is not clean and actually contains many harmful bacteria. Hindus consider the Ganges as a holy river because they believe that the Ganges had been sent by the god Shankar, because he was pleased by a sage who wanted the region to hav … e water. The river had came from heaven, so if they worship the river it would not dry.
the river ganges is supposedly the holiest of the holy trinity of rivers in India.(the indus,the brahmaputra and the ganges..).. and yes even though the banks of the river are completely filled with piles of garbage and there are hundreds of mutilated bodies floating in it... It is the longest river of India and is the second greatest river in the world by water discharge.[4] The Ganges basin is the most heavily populated river basin in the world, with over 400 million people and a population density of about 1,000 inhabitants per square mile (390 /km2).
It is a perennial river which crosses several states in its 2500 km or so trajectory. The river is considered holy by Hindus (the majority population in India) and there are quite a few pilgrimage sites along the banks of the Ganga (Ganges, in English). It is considered holy because it sustains life on a huge and fertile delta and ancient Indians worshipped nature. Clara · 7 years ago. While proposals have been made for re mediating this condition, little progress has been achieved. The Ganges river is an important cultural aspect to the Hindu population, however researches have found that the Ganges water is not clean and actually contains many harmful bacteria.
The Ganges Basin with its fertile soil is instrumental to the agricultural economies of India and Bangladesh. The Ganges and its tributaries provide a perennial source of irrigation to a large area. Chief crops cultivated in the area include rice, sugarcane, lentils, oil seeds, potatoes, and wheat. While proposals have been made for re mediating this condition, little progress has been achieved. The Ganges river is an important cultural aspect to the Hindu population, however researches have found that the Ganges water is not clean and actually contains many harmful bacteria.
the reason that the ganges river is so important to the Hindu religion is because it is believed to be lord shiva's hair. Besides irrigation, food and tourism, It has long … been considered a holy river by Hindus and worshiped as the goddess Ganga in Hinduism.. It is the longest river of India and is the second greatest river in the world by water discharge.[4] The Ganges basin is the most heavily populated river basin in the world, with over 400 million people and a population density of about 1,000 inhabitants per square mile (390 /km2).
The river known as the Ganges is officially and popularly known by its Hindu name, Ganga. The river has its source in the Himalayas, at Gaumakh in the southern Himalayas on the Indian side of the Tibetan border. It is 1 560 miles (2 510 km) long and flows through China, India, Nepal and Bangladesh. 
In Hinduism, the river Ganges is considered sacred and is personified as a goddess known as Ganga. It is worshipped by Hindus who believe that bathing in the river causes the remission of sins and facilitates Moksha (liberation from the cycle of life and death) the water of Ganga is considered very pure. Ganga is mentioned in the Rigveda, the earliest and theoretically the holiest of the Hindu scriptures. Ganga is mentioned in the nadistuti(Rigveda 10.75), which lists the rivers from east to west. In RV 6.45.31, the word Ganga is also mentioned, but it is not clear if the reference is to the river.
the reason that the ganges river is so important to the Hindu religion is because it is believed to be lord shiva's hair. Besides irrigation, food and tourism, It has long been considered a holy river by Hindus and worshiped as the goddess Ganga in Hinduism.. Hindus consider the Ganges as a holy river because they believe that the Ganges had been sent by the god Shankar, because he was pleased by a sage who wanted the region to hav … e water. The river had came from heaven, so if they worship the river it would not dry.