Getting Started. As a general rule of thumb, puppies can hold their bladders for one hour per month of age, plus an hour. So at 8 weeks old, or about 2 months, your puppy can hold her bladder for approximately three hours, max. Take your pup outside on a leash to a certain spot in the yard so she can do her business. While you can start taking puppies 5 or 6 weeks of age outside to encourage elimination, true housebreaking should start around 7 or 8 weeks.
· just now. Report Abuse. Usually dogs are fully house trained by their 6-8 month, because that is when they can hold their bladder in for a long time, my two dogs were house broken by i think their 7th month, and my new puppy is 6 months and he is house broken. Sometimes he has an accident, but then he'll stop and run to the door. 
A puppy can be well on her way to being housebroken, but her bladder isn't fully developed before 4 months of age, so accidents can and will happen. There are a couple of things that need to be done before you can begin properly housebreaking puppies. Your Golden Retriever will need to be leash trained. 
Housebreaking Age. While you can start taking puppies 5 or 6 weeks of age outside to encourage elimination, true housebreaking should start around 7 or 8 weeks. This is the age at which puppies are able to start understanding routines and rules, so the learning process is easier for them to comprehend
Best Answer: A pup raised by a reputable breeder is housebroken at 8 weeks and just needs to be let out but knows it is supposed to go outside and will whine to tell you. I have had several that never had an accident in the house as pups because the breeder did their work. Puppymill PetStore dogs can be 5 yrs old or never housebroken at all. I have had some of them too. They could never be trusted and had to be crated if out of my sight for even 5 mins.
A puppy is not physically able to control the muscle that allows him to hold it until he is about 12 weeks of age. Before this time, good housebreaking routines should be practiced to avoid having your puppy urinate and defecate all over your house. Puppies need to relieve themselves approximately six times a day. A puppy should be taken out immediately after each meal since a full stomach puts pressure on the colon and bladder. After about 8, 9, 10 weeks of age, or when the puppy arrives at it's new home, the dog should be taught to go potty outside. Do not have paper or potty pads inside your home. Peeing is for outside only, or you are teaching your new pup it is okay to potty inside your hom
First-Breed. Large breed dogs are much easier to potty train. A lab puppy can effortlessly be pretty confidently house broke by 6-8 weeks. However, a small breed puppy, like a papillon typically takes much longer. Usually they're dependably house broke between 6 months and 1 year. 
Some people believe that young puppies (those less than 16 weeks of age) should not be exposed to any sort of a puppy training program. They feel that people should be using this time to simply allow the puppy time to get acquainted with her new home and family. 
First-Breed. Large breed dogs are much easier to potty train. A lab puppy can easily be pretty confidently house broke by 6-8 weeks. However, a small breed puppy, like a papillon typically takes much longer. Usually they're dependably house broke between 6 months and 1 year. I have had several that never had an accident in the house as pups because the breeder did their work. Puppymill PetStore dogs can be 5 yrs old or never housebroken at all. I have had some of them too. They could never be trusted and had to be crated if out of my sight for even 5 mins.