Granite differs from granodiorite in that at least 35% of the feldspar in granite is alkali feldspar as opposed to plagioclase; it is the potassium feldspar that gives many granites a distinctive pink color. Granites can be predominantly white, pink, or gray in color, depending on their mineralogy. The word granite comes from the Latin granum, a grain, in reference to the coarse-grained structure of such a holocrystalline rock. By definition, granite is an igneous rock with at least 20% quartz and up to 65% alkali feldspar by volume
Granite is an igneous rock composed of mostly two minerals: quartz and feldspar. It is an intrusive rock, meaning that it crystallized from magma that cooled far below the earth's surface. Its name is derived from the Latin word 'granum', which means 'grain', a reference to the easily-seen minerals in the rock. Granite contains mostly quartz and orthoclase feldspar; other minerals make up less than half of the rock. The magma that crystallizes into granite likely forms in the upper mantle or lower lithosphere, where other rocks partially melt. Granite is used in buildings and some granite is mined for rare elements.
granite is an igneous rock and they are formed when molten rock (magma) solidifies. this rock has large crystals because it cooled slowly under the surface of the earth. Confidence votes 68.3K. Rockhound. Granite is composed mainly of the minerals quartz, different types of feldspars, micas, and hornblende, along with varying amounts of the elements aluminum, calcium, iron, magnesium, manganese, oxygen, and titanium.
Granite is a light-colored igneous rock with grains large enough to be visible with the unaided eye. It forms from the slow crystallization of magma below Earth’s surface. Granite is composed mainly of quartz and feldspar with minor amounts of mica, amphiboles and other minerals. This mineral composition usually gives granite a red, pink, gray or white color with dark mineral grains visible throughout the rock. Granite is the best-known igneous rock
First, granite is made of large mineral grains (which is where its name came from) that fit tightly together. Second, granite always consists of the minerals quartz and feldspar, with or without a wide variety of other minerals (accessory minerals). Granite is the signature rock of the continents. More than that, granite is the signature rock of the planet Earth itself. The other rocky planets— Mercury, Venus and Mars—are covered with basalt, as is the ocean floor on Earth. But only Earth has this beautiful and interesting rock type in abundance.
In the commercial stone industry a granite is a rock with visible grains that is harder than a marble. Under this definition gabbro, basalt, pegmatite, schist, gneiss, syenite, monzonite, anorthosite, grannodiorite, diabase, diorite and many other rocks will be called granite. It forms from the slow crystallization of magma below Earth’s surface. Granite is composed mainly of quartz and feldspar with minor amounts of mica, amphiboles and other minerals. This mineral composition usually gives granite a red, pink, gray or white color with dark mineral grains visible throughout the rock.
Granite is a plutonic rock in which quartz makes up between 10 and 50 percent of the felsic components and alkali feldspar accounts for 65 to 90 percent of the total feldspar content. Applying this definition requires the mineral identification and quantification abilities of a competent geologist. It forms from the slow crystallization of magma below Earth’s surface. Granite is composed mainly of quartz and feldspar with minor amounts of mica, amphiboles and other minerals. This mineral composition usually gives granite a red, pink, gray or white color with dark mineral grains visible throughout the rock.
Granite is a intrusive igneous rock that is typically found in the earth's crust. In the grand scheme of igneous rocks it is relatively 'light' or low density. The magma that cools to form a granite is dominated by the minerals: Potassium Feldspar (known as Orthoclase) and Quartz. Granite is composed of the following minerals: 40% Orthoclase, 35% Quartz, and 25% Plagioclase, Biotite and Hornblende. 
Granite /ˈɡraenɨt/ ˈɡrænɨt is a common type of felsic intrusive igneous rock that is granular and phaneritic in. Texture granites can be predominantly, white, pink or gray in, color depending on their. mineralogy Granites can be predominantly white, pink, or gray in color, depending on their mineralogy. The word granite comes from the Latin granum, a grain, in reference to the coarse-grained structure of such a holocrystalline rock. By definition, granite is an igneous rock with at least 20% quartz and up to 65% alkali feldspar by volume.