Modern pizza, as we know it today, originated in Italy as the Neapolitan pie with tomato and the cheese was added in 1889. The pizza is from Italy, but was not developed until after the cultivation of the tomato, brought back to Spain from Central America in the 1500's. 1 Ironically a cheese, basil and tomato pizza was already popular in Naples, but it did not have quite the same impact in the annals of pizza history. 2  Baker's shops in Pompeii show evidence of flat breads that could have been amongst the world's first pizzas.
The origin of the word pizza is uncertain. It is Italian for ‘pie’ and may have come from Latin pix ‘pitch’ or Greek pitta. It is common belief that pizza was an invention by the Italians. However, the history of pizza goes back to the ancient times in the Middle East. The Greeks, Egyptians, Armenians, Israelis, and Babylonians were making some derivative of pizza in the ancient times. They would cook flat bread in mud ovens. During that time, it is believe that Raffaele Esposito made the first pizza with tomato, cheese, and other toppings and seasonings. The first known pizza shop opened in Port Alba in Naples and is still there today.
The word pizza was first documented in 997 AD in Gaeta, Italy, and successively in different parts of Central and Southern Italy. The precursor of pizza was probably the focaccia, a flat bread known to the Romans as panis focacius, to which toppings were then added. Foods similar to pizza have been made since the neolithic age. Records of people adding other ingredients to bread to make it more flavorful can be found throughout ancient history. 1  In Sardinia, French and Italian archaeologists have found bread baked over 7,000 years ago.
The Margherita is regarded as the authentic Naples pizza Getty Images. Pizza, the pride and joy of Naples cuisine, actually originated in a town in the neighbouring region of Lazio, a food historian has claimed – to the chagrin of the southern port city. The earliest use of the word pizza has been found in church records in Gaeta, Lazio, as part of a Dark Ages rent agreement that was written AD997, according to researcher Giuseppe Nocca.
The ingredient ratios for this recipe originate from someone who took a pizza making class at Dewey’s Pizza. I created my own directions based on the fact that it is rumored online that Dewey’s also uses a 2 day cold rise. 
Pizza dates back to the ancient greeks, who topped flat bread with herbs, oils, and cheese. Pizza as we know it (with tomato sauce and cheese) probably dates back to mid-nineteenth century Naples. The first pizzerias in the United States date to around 1900. Totonno's in Coney Island, Brooklyn, NY, which recently had a severe fire, famously laid claim to being the longest continually-operating US pizzeria. 1 Ironically a cheese, basil and tomato pizza was already popular in Naples, but it did not have quite the same impact in the annals of pizza history. 2  Baker's shops in Pompeii show evidence of flat breads that could have been amongst the world's first pizzas.
1 The pizza as we know it today began to originate in Naples; they were flavored with oil and garlic, cinciielli (a small fish), or anchovies, and mozzarella cheese. 2  Up to 1830 the pizzas were sold from Neapolitan market stalls. 3  The first pizza restaurant was called Port' Alba. 1 Ironically a cheese, basil and tomato pizza was already popular in Naples, but it did not have quite the same impact in the annals of pizza history. 2  Baker's shops in Pompeii show evidence of flat breads that could have been amongst the world's first pizzas.
The history of pizza has been, and is contentious, for we can never know which nation invented pizza, but pizza history is no less colorful for that fact. As we cannot know the date when the first pizza was invented ,we can only speculate who invented pizza. 1 Mozzarella is made from buffalo's milk and had never before been used to make a pizza. 2  Ironically a cheese, basil and tomato pizza was already popular in Naples, but it did not have quite the same impact in the annals of pizza history.
Yet tomatoes did not appear on European menus until the Sixteenth Century, when they were brought over from the New World by the Spanish conquistadors. Pizza as we know it today, with a crust, tomato and other toppings, was even later in history; it did not originate until the eighteenth Century in Naples. 1 Mozzarella is made from buffalo's milk and had never before been used to make a pizza. 2  Ironically a cheese, basil and tomato pizza was already popular in Naples, but it did not have quite the same impact in the annals of pizza history.
Some of Canada’s successful pizza brands include: Boston Pizza, Pizza Pizza, and Vanelli’s. Boston Pizza, also known as BP’s in Canada, and Boston's—the Gourmet Pizza in the United States and Mexico, is one of Canada’s largest franchising restaurants. Foods similar to pizza have been made since the neolithic age. Records of people adding other ingredients to bread to make it more flavorful can be found throughout ancient history. 1  In Sardinia, French and Italian archaeologists have found bread baked over 7,000 years ago.