Medically, yohimbine is a pre-synaptic alpha-2-adrenergic blocking agent, also referred to as an alpha 2-adrenergic antagonist. This action increases sympathetic nervous system activity, and can result in increasing the amounts of epinephrine (also known as adrenaline) and norepinephrine in the blood stream.
Yohimbe contains a chemical that can affect the brain. This chemical is called yohimbine. Naloxone (Narcan) also affects the brain. Taking naloxone (Narcan) along with yohimbine might increase the chance of side effects such as anxiety, nervousness, trembling, and hot flashes.
Side effects reported using yohimbine include: nervousness, irritability, insomnia, headache, skin flushing, anorexia, nausea, gastric distress, diarrhea, vomiting, palpitations, tachycardia, dysuria, pain, increased blood pressure, dizziness, sweating, weight gain, constipation, and anxiety.
1 Erectile dysfunction (ED). 2  There is evidence that yohimbine, the active ingredient of yohimbe, can be helpful for ED. 3  Some herbalists suggest that the yohimbe bark actually works better than the yohimbine ingredient alone. 4  However, so far yohimbe bark has not been evaluated in research studies.
Yohimbe contains a chemical that affects the body. This chemical is called yohimbine. Yohimbine might affect the body in some of the same ways as some medications for depression called MAOIs. Taking yohimbe along with MAOIs might increase the effects and side effects of yohimbe and MAOIs.
Yohimbine is a drug derived from the bark of the yohimbe tree. ... Muira Puama www.lifescript.com/health/centers/pms/alternative_treatments/muira_puama.aspx. One study is commonly cited as showing that muira puama is more effective for impotence than the drug yohimbine (from the herb yohimbe).
The bark of the tree contains a chemical called yohimbine. The amount of yohimbine in dietary supplements may vary; some yohimbe products have been found to contain very little yohimbine. A drug form of yohimbine—yohimbine hydrochloride—has been studied for erectile dysfunction.
Yohimbine is an active chemical (an alkaloid) found in said bark and is cultivated into supplement form. Yohimbine hydrochloride is a standardized form of yohimbine that is available as a prescription drug in the United States.
Yohimbe contains a chemical called yohimbine which can increase blood flow and nerve impulses to the penis or vagina. It also helps counteract the sexual side effects of certain medications used for depression.
Recently yohimbe, or more accurately, its active ingredient yohimbine, has been the subject of some heated debates among fitness enthusiasts and industry insiders alike.