Vitamins and minerals are essential nutrients your body needs in small amounts to work properly. Most people should get all the nutrients they need by eating a varied and balanced diet. The pages in this section contain advice and information on vitamins, minerals and trace elements essential for health, including: Water-soluble vitamins are found in a wide range of foods, including fruit, vegetables, potatoes, grains, milk and dairy foods. Unlike fat-soluble vitamins, they can be destroyed by heat or being exposed to the air. They can also be lost in water used for cooking.
Your body must have vitamin D to absorb calcium and promote bone growth. Too little vitamin D results in soft bones in children (rickets) and fragile, misshapen bones in adults (osteomalacia). You also need vitamin D for other important body functions. 
Your body does not store water-soluble vitamins -- B vitamins and vitamin C -- because they dissolve in bodily fluids. Eating a variety of healthy foods, such as fruits, vegetables, fish and whole grains, each day helps prevent deficiencies. Fat-soluble vitamins, which include A, D, E and K, circulate in your blood. As a fat-soluble vitamin, vitamin D in excess is not flushed from your body through urine. Although your body can become toxic from excessive supplemental intake, the toxicity does not derive from vitamin D–rich foods or sun exposure, according to the Office of Dietary Supplements.
Vitamins A, D, E and K are classed as fat-soluble vitamins and are transported and utilized in the body in the presence of dietary fats. Your body stores excess fat-soluble vitamins for use when needed. Vitamins B and C are water soluble and cannot be stored in your body. Vitamin E is linked to skin, hair and nail health, and the B vitamins are involved in the breakdown of carbohydrates for energy. Vitamin K is necessary for forming blood clots, and vitamin A is important for ocular health and vision.
Vitamin Function. Many vitamins have identifiable roles in maintaining the function and health of your body. For example, vitamin C is associated with your immune system and your ability to fight off infections. Vitamin D works alongside the mineral calcium to promote healthy bones. Vitamin E is linked to skin, hair and nail health, and the B vitamins are involved in the breakdown of carbohydrates for energy. Vitamin K is necessary for forming blood clots, and vitamin A is important for ocular health and vision.
Vitamins are classified as fat-soluble or water-soluble, referring to where they are stored in the body. Fat-soluble vitamins include A, D, E and K and are stored for up to six months in your various fat stores. Getting Enough. A diet rich in a variety of fresh vegetables, fruits, fortified dairy, whole grains, dried beans and lentils, and lean meat and fish helps you get all the vitamins you need. Whole foods, rather than a supplement, provide an optimal synergy of compounds that your body absorbs and us
When you eat plants such as fruits and vegetables, you absorb the vitamins into your body. Animals have the same ability to absorb vitamins from plants, so you obtain some vitamins secondhand by eating animal products such as eggs, fish or meat. You also can consume supplements to meet your vitamin needs. Vitamin E is linked to skin, hair and nail health, and the B vitamins are involved in the breakdown of carbohydrates for energy. Vitamin K is necessary for forming blood clots, and vitamin A is important for ocular health and vision.
Vitamin C is a very important part of our diet. It is found in fruit and fresh vegetable-they have to be fresh because cooking the vegetables destroys the vitamin C. The reas … on that they are so important is because they help to keep membranes healthy, as well as keeping our tissues linked together. Yes, you can take vitamins on the HCG Diet, but it's not necessary. What you need to look out for in vitamins is any ingredient that is a form of sugar, including what is used … to bind and coat the pills. Often, a form of sugar is used on coated tablets or those big horse pill vitamins.