If you like, you can also move some certain contacts to the specific group you choose. If you have Outlook account on your Android phone already, you can sync contacts in it to your Android phone in an ease. Android Transfer is not only a contact transfer, but also a handy and effective Android phone data manager. Click “ Contacts ” tab on the left column then click “ Import/Export ” to select “ Import contacts from your computer ”. In the drop-down box, select import contacts from Outlook 2003/2007/2010 or Outlook Express. Select a contact account to save the contacts
Import/Export Microsoft Outlook contacts to Android phone. Follow these steps to transfer your Microsoft Outlook contacts to Android: 1  Run vCard ImportExport application to export contacts to vCard file: 2  Select second task in wizard tasks. 1 Click Export to SD card. 2  Copy exported file from SD card (shoold be named something like 00001.vcf) to your PC. 3  Run vCard ImportExport application to import resulting vCard files to Microsoft Outlook: 4  Select first
Visit the Gmail site to sign in to your account or create a new one (see Resources for link). From the main account page, click the “Gmail” menu and choose “Contacts.” Open the Import window by clicking “More” and choosing “Import.” Click “Choose File,” and then select your exported CSV file in the browser window. Download the Outlook.com application from the Play Store. Tap “All Apps,” choose “Play Store” and search for “Outlook.” Tap the program name in the search results to view the download page. Add the program to your phone by tapping “Install,” and launch it by tapping “Open.”. Step 2.
The info will be shown at the main window as the sample below. Step 2 Copy contacts from Android to Outlook. Click Contacts under your Android phone list in the left column. Tick the contacts you desire to transfer to outlook, click Import/Export on the menu bar. You may choose either “ Export selected contacts to computer ” or “ Export all contacts to computer ”. 
On your PC, go to the contacts piece of Outlook, and then click File | Options | Advanced. Click on the Export button, select Export to a file (see Figure A), and click Next. Figure A. In the next window, select Comma Separated Values (Windows), and click Next. Select the Contacts entry from the Select folder to export from list (see Figure B), and click Next. Figure B. Log into your Gmail account on the PC where you exported your contacts. 
To sync an Android phone directly with Outlook requires the use of a third party utility. Outlook has no part in the sync process, it only supplies the data you want to sync. Sync software does all of the work. Your phone manufacturer may include sync software, if not, you'll need to purchase sync software. 
Follow these steps to transfer your Android contacts to Microsoft Outlook 1  : On your Android phone go to address book (contacts app), select Contacts tab. 2  Hit menu button to open the menu. 3  Choose Import/Export option. 1 Click Export to SD card. 2  Copy exported file from SD card (shoold be named something like 00001.vcf) to your PC. 3  Run vCard ImportExport application to import resulting vCard files to Microsoft Outlook: 4  Select first task in wizard tasks.
Step 2 Transfer contacts from Outlook to Android. Click “ Contacts ” tab on the left column then click “ Import/Export ” to select “ Import contacts from your computer ”. In the drop-down box, select import contacts from Outlook 2003/2007/2010 or Outlook Express. Select a contact account to save the contacts
1 On your Android phone go to address book (contacts app), select Contacts tab. 2  Hit menu button to open the menu. 3  Choose Import/Export option. 4  Click Export to SD card. 5  Copy exported file from SD card (shoold be named something like 00001.vcf) to your PC. 1 Click Export to SD card. 2  Copy exported file from SD card (shoold be named something like 00001.vcf) to your PC. 3  Run vCard ImportExport application to import resulting vCard files to Microsoft Outlook: 4  Select first task in wizard tasks.