In unicellular organisms such as bacteria, mitosis is a type of asexual reproduction, making identical copies of a single cell. In multicellular organisms, mitosis produces more cells for growth and repair.
What types of cells and organisms undergo mitosis and meiosis. Mitiosis undergo cells and organisms that can reproduce asexually and create indentical copies of their DNA. Meiosis uses organisms that rely on sexual reproduction however the process of mitosis is still needed for growth. Tweet.
There is a process some unicellular organisms use to reproduce sexually, but that involves inputting DNA from one organism into another. There are still only two cells at the end of the process, but the recipient is a new organism. This process doesn't involve cell division or meiosis, though.
Mitosis in Unicellular Organisms. In unicelullar (single-celled) organisms, mitosis is a common and important form of asexual reproduction. It can also be called binary fission, and plays a role in a similar process called multiple fission. Organisms that reproduce through mitosis make exact copies of themselves. This is why bacterial colonies are able to form from genetically identical individuals. Not all unicellular organisms reproduce through mitosis, but all bacteria, some unicellular protists and some fungi may undergo fission.
Only eukaryotic organisms, or those whose cells contain nuclei, undergo mitosis. Eukaryotic organisms include animals, plants, fungi, and others (traditionally called protista). Bacterial cells, which lack nuclei and are classified as prokaryotic, divide through a different process, called binary fission.
Cellular differentiation is for cells that are to become  specialized parts of a larger organism. Think along the lines of  brain cells, skin cells, heart, cells, etc.   …  Unicellular organisms are, by definition, a single-celled organism,  and that is why they do not go through cellular differentiation.
Mitosis is the reproduction of skin, heart, stomach, cheek, hair etc. cells. These cells are Autosomal cells. This is also a form of Asexual reproduction, where one organism or cell reproduces itself. Some organisms that reproduce asexually are hydra, bacteria, and single celled organisms.