The ocean's second-deepest place is also in the Mariana Trench. The Sirena Deep, which lies 124 miles (200 kilometers) to the east of Challenger Deep, is a bruising 35,462 feet deep (10,809 m). As deep as the trench is, it is not the spot closest to the center of Earth. Because the planet bulges at the equator, the radius at the poles is about 16 miles (25 km) less than the radius at the equator. So, parts of the Arctic Ocean seabed are closer to the Earth's center than the Challenger Deep.
The average depth of the world's oceans is 12,430 feet with the deepest point being the Mariana Trench with a depth of 6.8 miles. 
Confidence votes 66. Its average depth is 4,637 meters (2.8 miles). It is home to the deepest known point in the ocean-the Mariana Trench off Guam-which plunges to a depth of about 10,924 meters (nearly 7 miles). Because of the depth of the Pacific Ocean, tsunamis (huge waves created by earthquakes) can reach speeds of 750 kilometers an hour, the same velocity as a jet airplane
down! The average depth of the ocean is about. . The deepest part of the ocean is called the Challenger Deep and is located beneath the western Pacific Ocean in the southern end of the Mariana Trench, which runs several hundred kilometers southwest of the U.S. territorial island of Guam. Challenger Deep is approximately. deep
The scientists and their diving vehicle traveled aboard Schmidt Ocean Institute’s Research Vessel Falkor. Mariana Trench in the western Pacific. The trench is some 1,580 miles long (about 2,550 km), with an average width of only 43 miles (69 km). Image via Wallace at Wikimedia Commons. Bottom line: An international team of scientists has set a new record for the deepest known ocean fish. They were filming in the Mariana Trench – the deepest part of the ocean. 
Deepest Part of the Ocean The Challenger Deep in the Mariana Trench is the deepest known location in Earth's oceans. 
The Challenger Deep, in the southern end of the Mariana Trench (sometimes called the Marianas Trench), is the deepest spot in the ocean. Its depth is difficult to measure from the surface, but modern estimates vary by less than 1,000 feet (305 meters). As deep as the trench is, it is not the spot closest to the center of Earth. Because the planet bulges at the equator, the radius at the poles is about 16 miles (25 km) less than the radius at the equator. So, parts of the Arctic Ocean seabed are closer to the Earth's center than the Challenger Deep.
Answer: The ocean's deepest area is the Mariana Trench (also called the Marianas Trench), which is about 11 km (almost 7 miles, or almost 36,000 feet) deep. The trench is 1,554 miles long and 44 miles wide, and is like the Grand Canyon of the ocean, although it is 120 times larger. Contrary to what you might picture, the trench is wide-according to NOAA, almost 5 times wider than it is deep. The Mariana Trench is located in the western North Pacific Ocean
62 Miles Beneath the Sea! The deepest ocean on Earth is the Pacific Ocean's Marianas Trench, which reaches a depth of 6.8 miles awesomely trumped by the depth of the ocean on the Jupiter's moon, Europa, which some measurements put at 62 miles. Deepest Ocean in the Solar System Discovered on Jupiter's Europa. The deepest ocean on Earth is the Pacific Ocean's Marianas Trench, which reaches a depth of 6.8 miles awesomely trumped by the depth of the ocean on the Jupiter's moon, Europa, which some measurements put at 62 miles.