Spraying After Neutering. A cat that is currently spraying urine will typically continue this behavior for up to six months after the neutering procedure, according to VetInfo. This is due to the testosterone remaining in the cat's system.
Sometimes cats begin to spray because they can smell outside cats and they do this to mark their territory, even in your home. Neutering can increase the odds that cat will then stop spraying (although not 100%).
Even if the spraying behavior is more common in male cats, females may spray also, when in heat. If neutered, most cats stop spraying. In rare cases, cats may continue to spray and this behavior is not linked to any medical condition. Typically, these cats are neutered at a more advanced age, when the cat has already developed a habit out of spraying.
Cat spraying is a common problem and in most cases may be stopped by neutering the cat. Typically, over 90% of cats stop spraying within 6 months after the neutering procedure. However, even neutered cats may spray; typically this is due to a medical condition or stress.
Spraying after Neutering. Spraying after neutering may occur in some cats. While in rare cases, the spraying is just a behavioral problem, in most cases this behavior may point to a medical problem or stress. If a neutered cat is spraying, this can indicate that the cat has a urinary tract infection.
Have kittens neutered before they reach sexual maturity to prevent spraying. Cleaning and smelling cat urine spray around your home can be an unpleasant experience. In 90 percent of cases, neutering eliminates this unwanted behavior in male cats, according to VetInfo. If your furbaby continues to spray urine after being neutered, another issue may be to blame, including a medical problem.
Yes, a male cat can still spray after being neutered. Just call up any vet and they will tell you-- that just because you have them neutered doesn't mean that they will quit spraying. I myself have 2 male cats, both have been neutered.