Functions of the small intestine. The small intestine is the part of the intestines where 90% of the digestion and absorption of food occurs, the other 10% taking place in the stomach and large intestine. The main function of the small intestine is absorption of nutrients and minerals from food. The small intestine is a tubular structure within the abdominal cavity that carries the food in continuation with the stomach up to the colon from where the large intestine carries it to the rectum and out of the body via the anus. The main function of this organ is to aid in digestion.
Small Intestine. The small intestine is a long, highly convoluted tube in the digestive system that absorbs about 90% of the nutrients from the food we eat. It is given the name “small intestine” because it is only 1 inch in diameter, making it less than half the diameter of the large intestine. The small intestine is, however, about twice the length of the large intestine and usually measures about 10 feet in length. The small intestine winds throughout the abdominal cavity inferior to the stomach. Its many folds help it to pack all 10 feet of its length into such a small body cavity...
The small intestine is the largest in the digestive system because it has the largest surface area. The whole inside of the small intestine is covered in villi and micro villi … and when spread out it would be about the size of 4 tennis courts! 
Anatomy of the Digestive System: Digestion is the process in which food is broken into smaller pieces so the body can use them to build and nourish cells and provide energy. The digestive system is comprised of the mouth and salivary glands, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, and large intestine. Anatomy Involved in Crohn's Disease The digestive system is made up of the digestive tract, which is a long series of organs, including the esophagus, the stomach, the small intestine, and the large intestine, that ...
Despite its name, the small intestine is the largest part of the digestive tract. Even though the small intestine is only about one inch in diameter, the small intestine is approximately 20 to 23 feet long. Because the small intestine is long, the small intestine has a lot of surface area. This large surface area helps to ensure that the nutrients are absorbed. The small intestine has three parts called the duodenum, the jejuneum, and the ileum. These villi are largest in the duodenum and become smaller as the tube progresses away from the stomach. These villi make the walls of the small intestine look like a shag carpet. On the inside of the villi is a network of blood vessels and lymphatic vessels called a lacteal.
Your small intestine and digestion. The small intestine is a long tube that is approximately 18 feet long (6 meters). The small intestine is called small because the diameter or the width of the tube is much less than the large intestine. The parts of the small intestine include the duodenum, jejunum and the ileum. The duodenum is a segment of intestine between the stomach and the jejunum that is very active in digestion where many different enzymes mix from the stomach, liver, gallbladder and pancreas. Ileum. The ileum is the final part of the small intestine. It opens into the large intestine via the ileocecal valve. The ileum is preceded by the jejunum. This section of the small intestine is approximately 6 to 12 feet (3.5 meters) long. The ileum absorbs mainly vitamin B12, other water soluble vitamins, bile salts, and nutrients that were not absorbed in the jejunum