When the Fed decreases the money supply, there is a shortage of money at the prevailing interest rate. Therefore, the interest rate must increase in order to dissuade some people from holding money. This is shown in the right-hand side of the diagram above. When the Federal Reserve adjusts the supply of money in an economy, the nominal interest rate changes as a result. When the Fed increases the money supply, there is a surplus of money at the prevailing interest rate. In order to get players in the economy to be willing to hold the extra money, the interest rate must decrease. This is what is shown in the lef
If the real money supply increases, real interest rates decline. The more money is available, the more loans are available. Competition for borrowers reduces the real interest rate. The NOMINAL interest rate may increase if the increase in the real money supply causes inflation. 
An increase in the supply of money works both through lowering interest rates, which spurs investment, and through putting more money in the hands of consumers, making them feel wealthier, and thus stimulating spending. Business firms respond to increased sales by ordering more raw materials and increasing production. From the founding of the Federal Reserve in 1913 until the end of World War II, the money supply tended to grow at a higher rate than the growth of nominal GNP. This increase in the ratio of money supply to GNP shows an increase in the amount of money as a fraction of their income that people wanted to hold.
The long run equilibrium is shown by the green dot (1) with the price level at 105. If starting from this situation, the Fed increases the money supply, banks will increase their lending activity. When the supply of loans goes up, the real interest rate will fall. As the interest rate falls, aggregate demand will increase (move to the right). The following short run equilibrium results. 
Thus interest rates also are influenced by the laws of demand and supply. When the money supply increases it means that more money is available in the economy for borrowing and this increased supply, in line with the law of demand tends to reduce the interest rates, or the price for borrowing money down. Similarly when the money supply decreases, it will tend to push up the interest rates. Of course, supp;u of money is one of the two factors that determine the interest rates. The other factor is the demand for money. This means the demand for borrowing money for investing in business or for consumer purchase on credit. The interest rates tend to increase when demand increases and decrease when demand increases. The equilibrium rate of interest is the rate at which the demand for money equals the supply of money.
Report Abuse. decrease in money supply will not cause in increase in interest rate. It should be oppose. Too high money supply will cause inflation, simplily means very high price for overall product on the market. Inflation is an economic problem. To solve the problem, US government usually raise the interest rate. 
1. Interest rates. An increase in the interest rate will lead to a reduction in the demand for money because higher interest rates will lead investors to put less of their portfolio in money (that has a zero interest rate return) and more of their portfolio in interest rate bearing assets (Treasury bills). 2. While under flexible exchange rates this increase in the money supply would lead to a currency depreciation, under fixed exchange rate this monetary financing of the budget deficit cannot increase the overall money supply, as the money supply is endogenous given the level of world interest rates.