Angina itself is a symptom (or set of symptoms), not a disease. Any of the following may signal angina: 1  An uncomfortable pressure, fullness, squeezing, or pain in the center of the chest. 2  It may also feel like tightness, burning, or a heavy weight. 3  The pain may spread to the shoulders, neck, or arms. 4  It may be located in the upper abdomen, back, or jaw.
Angina pectoris is the medical term for pain or other discomfort in the chest that is due to coronary heart disease. The chest pain or discomfort associated with angina occurs when an area of the heart muscle does not receive enough oxygen-rich blood. 
A. Angina (angina pectoris-Latin for squeezing of the chest) is chest discomfort that occurs when there is a decreased blood oxygen supply to an area of the heart muscle. In most cases, the lack of blood supply is due to a narrowing of the coronary arteries as a result of arteriosclerosis. Angina may be felt as: 1  pressure. 
Angina Symptoms. Most people feel angina symptoms in the chest. The most common symptom is chest pain or pressure, or a strange feeling in the chest. But you might feel symptoms in other parts of your body. Some people feel pain, pressure, or a strange feeling in the back, neck, jaw, or upper belly, or in one or both shoulders or arms.
Signs and symptoms such as nausea (feeling sick to your stomach), fatigue (tiredness), shortness of breath, sweating, light-headedness, and weakness also may occur. Women are more likely to feel discomfort in the neck, jaw, throat, abdomen, or back. Angina often is described as pressure, squeezing, burning, or tightness in the chest. The pain or discomfort usually starts behind the breastbone. Pain from angina also can occur in the arms, shoulders, neck, jaw, throat, or back.
Symptoms also vary based on the type of angina you have. Because angina has so many possible symptoms and causes, all chest pain should be checked by a doctor. Chest pain that lasts longer than a few minutes and isn't relieved by rest or angina medicine may be a sign of a heart attack. Call 9–1–1 right away. Angina often is described as pressure, squeezing, burning, or tightness in the chest. The pain or discomfort usually starts behind the breastbone. Pain from angina also can occur in the arms, shoulders, neck, jaw, throat, or back.
Angina pectoris is the medical term for chest pain or discomfort due to coronary heart disease. It occurs when the heart muscle doesn't get as much blood as it needs. This usually happens because one or more of the heart's arteries is narrowed or blocked, also called ischemia. 
Symptoms of angina. The most common symptom of angina is a feeling of pain or discomfort in your chest. The pain can feel tight, dull or heavy. The pain can spread from your chest to your left arm, neck, jaw and back. In some cases, the pain is similar to indigestion. Chest pain may also occur with: 1  breathlessness. 2  feeling sick (nausea).
Angina (an-JI-nuh or AN-juh-nuh) is chest pain or discomfort that occurs if an area of your heart muscle doesn't get enough oxygen-rich blood. Angina may feel like pressure or squeezing in your chest. The pain also can occur in your shoulders, arms, neck, jaw, or back. Angina pain may even feel like indigestion. 
Pain and discomfort are the main symptoms of angina. Angina often is described as pressure, squeezing, burning, or tightness in the chest. The pain or discomfort usually starts behind the breastbone. Pain from angina also can occur in the arms, shoulders, neck, jaw, throat, or back.