An organelle found in large numbers in most cells, in which the biochemical processes of respiration and energy production occur. The main function of the mitochondria is the … production of energy, in the form of adenosine triphosphate (ATP). The mitochondria provide energy for the cell. They are known as the powerhouse of the cell because they provide the location for the production of ATP (adenosine tri-phosphate). ATP is produced by aerobic respiration such as glycolysis, the Krebs cycle, and electron transport
Mitochondria are the cell's power producers. They convert energy into forms that are usable by the cell. Located in the cytoplasm, they are the sites of cellular respiration which ultimately generates fuel for the cell's activities. Mitochondria are also involved in other cell processes such as cell division and growth, as well as cell death. 
The function of the mitochondria in a plant cell is to support the  function of the cell and the structure. The mitochondria usually  has a membrane which has folds that are … stretched to provide a  wider surface area for cellular activities. 1 person found this useful. The mitochondria provide energy for the cell. They are known as the powerhouse of the cell because they provide the location for the production of ATP (adenosine tri-phosphate). ATP is produced by aerobic respiration such as glycolysis, the Krebs cycle, and electron transport
The mitochondrion (plural mitochondria) is a double membrane-bound organelle found in most eukaryotic cells. The word mitochondrion comes from the Greek μίτος, mitos, i.e. thread, and χονδρίον, chondrion, i.e. granule or grain-like. Mitochondria range from 0.5 to 1.0 μm in diameter. A dominant role for the mitochondria is the production of ATP, as reflected by the large number of proteins in the inner membrane for this task. This is done by oxidizing the major products of glucose: pyruvate, and NADH, which are produced in the cytosol.
Mitochondria are well-defined cytoplasmic organelles of the cell which take part in a variety of cellular metabolic functions. Survival of the cells requires energy to perform different functions. The mitochondria are important as the fact that these organelles supply all the necessary biological energy of the cell, and they obtain this energy by oxidizing the substrates of the Krebs cycle. Functions of Mitochondria. The most prominent function of mitochondria is to produce energy to the cell in the form of ATP through oxidative respiration process. It also regulates the metabolic activity of the cell.
Mitochondria are unusual organelles. They act as the power plants of the cell, are surrounded by two membranes, and have their own genome. They also divide independently of the cell in which they reside, meaning mitochondrial replication is not coupled to cell division. At the inner mitochondrial membrane, a high energy electron is passed along an electron transport chain. The energy released pumps hydrogen out of the matrix space. The gradient created by this drives hydrogen back through the membrane, through ATP synthase.
The main function of mitochondria is the production of energy during the production of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) via the TCA Cycle (which is also as the Krebs Cycle and the Citric Acid Cycle). That process is an important metabolic pathway (see also what is metabolism). Production of energy. ATP Synthesis. The main function of mitochondria is the production of ATP. According to many textbooks: Energy production within cells is the main function of mitochondria. However, some students are told not to state that mitochondria produce or create energy.