Chris A. Gillespie, MEd, ATC, LAT. THE FACTS Since 2000 exertional sickling is the leading cause of non-traumatic death in NCAA Football … All Divisions. In FBS --- if you add heat, heart, and asthma --- Combined, match the total dead from sickling. 
Exertional Sickling. Exertional sickling is a medical emergency occurring in athletes carrying the sickle cell trait. When the red blood cells(RBC) change shape or “sickle” this causes a build up of RBCs in small blood vessels, leading to decreased blood flow. The drop in blood flow leads to a breakdown of muscle tissue and cell death, known as fulminant rhabdomyolysis. Exertional sickling is most common when exercise is high intensity and has short or small amounts of recovery time between drills. Sports settings common for exertional sickling collapse are: 1  Football conditioning. 2  Basketball training. 3  Cross-country racing. 4  University track tryout. 5  Golden Gloves boxing bout
Sickle cell anemia is caused by a mutation in the gene that tells your body to make hemoglobin — the red, iron-rich compound that gives blood its red color. Hemoglobin allows red blood cells to carry oxygen from your lungs to all parts of your body. In sickle cell anemia, the abnormal hemoglobin causes red blood cells to become rigid, sticky and misshapen. The sickle cell gene is passed from generation to generation in a pattern of inheritance called autosomal recessive inheritance.
the development of sickle cells in the blood. sickling test a method of demonstrationg hemoglobin S and the sickling phenomenon in erythrocytes, performed by reducing the oxygen concentration to which the erythrocytes are exposed.
Exertional rhabdomyolysis (ER) — sometimes called exercise-induced rhabdomyolysis — is the breakdown of muscle from extreme physical exertion. It is one of many types of rhabdomyolysis that can occur and because of this the exact prevalence and incidence are unclear. 
Athletes with sickle cell trait (SCT) are at increased risk of life-threatening heat stroke from a condition called exertional sickling, with heat, dehydration, asthma, high-intensity exercise and high altitude known risk factors. Yvette L. Coursey, DPA, talks about how sickle cell trait, ordinarily a relatively benign condition, can cause youth engaged in sustained, intense exercise to suffer a potentially life-threatening condition called exertional sickling. Coursey emphasizes that the condition is survivable if treated promptly
If you believe your child is experiencing exertional sickling during or after exercise, here's what to do: 1  Remove the child from the activity. 2  Call 911 and explain that urgen care needed to prevent explosive rhabdomyolysis. 3  Make the child comfortable, including cooling for comfort. 4  Give her something to drink. Exertional sickling signs and symptoms. Children who exercise intensely, particularly in the heat, can experience a condition called exertional sickling. This can commonly occur in organized sports as a result of: 1  Low blood oxygen levels; 2  Increased muscle heat; and/or. 3  Dehydration.