Red blood cells, most white blood cells, and platelets are produced in the bone marrow, the soft fatty tissue inside bone cavities. Two types of white blood cells, T and B cells (lymphocytes), are also produced in the lymph nodes and spleen, and T cells are produced and mature in the thymus gland.
The lymphatic system is composed of lymph vessels, lymph nodes, and organs. The functions of this system include the absorbtion of excess fluid and its return to the blood stream, absorption of fat (in the villi of the small intestine) and the immune system function. Some lymphocytes migrate to the thymus and become T cells that circulate in the blood and are associated with the lymph nodes and spleen. B cells remain in the bone marrow and develop before moving into the circulatory and lymph systems. B cells produce antibodies. Macrophage Attacking E.coli (SEM x8,800).
Lymph Nodes. A rounded mass of lymphatic tissue that is surrounded by a capsule of connective tissue. Lymph nodes filter lymph (lymphatic fluid), and they store lymphocytes (white blood cells). They are located along lymphatic vessels. Also called lymph gland. 
Lymphocytes. Lymphocytes are a type of white blood cell generated by the immune system to defend the body against cancerous cells, pathogens, and foreign matter. Lymphocytes circulate in blood and lymph fluid and are found in body tissues including the spleen, thymus, bone marrow, lymph nodes, tonsils, and liver.
The white blood cells or lymphocytes produced by these lymph nodes kill bacteria and viruses entering the body. Lymph nodes are very small organs, only about 1-2 cm in size and are found as a network throughout the body. What Are Lymph Node, Locations And Diseases. Humans generally have immunity against pathogens and accidental infections that is owed to the presence of lymph nodes which form a part of the lymphatic system. They behave like mechanical filters and kill and eliminate microbes present in the blood stream.
White blood cells known as lymphocytes arise from by mitosis of stem cells in the bone marrow. Some lymphocytes migrate to the thymus and become T cells that circulate in the blood and are associated with the lymph nodes and spleen. B cells remain in the bone marrow and develop before moving into the circulatory and lymph systems. B cells produce antibodies. Macrophage Attacking E.coli (SEM x8,800).
This system-composed of lymph nodes in your neck, armpits, groin, chest, and abdomen-removes excess fluids from your body and produces immune cells. Abnormal lymphocytes, a type of white blood cell that fights infection, become lymphoma cells, which multiply and collect in your lymph nodes. 
Lymph organs include the bone marrow, lymph nodes, spleen, and thymus. Bone marrow contains tissue that produces lymphocytes. B-lymphocytes (B-cells) mature in the bone marrow. T-lymphocytes (T-cells) mature in the thymus gland. Other blood cells such as monocytes and leukocytes are produced in the bone marrow. Lymph nodes are areas of concentrated lymphocytes and macrophages along the lymphatic veins. Some lymphocytes migrate to the thymus and become T cells that circulate in the blood and are associated with the lymph nodes and spleen. B cells remain in the bone marrow and develop before moving into the circulatory and lymph systems. B cells produce antibodies. Macrophage Attacking E.coli (SEM x8,800).
Lymph nodes are major sites of B, T, and other immune cells. Lymph nodes are important for the proper functioning of the immune system, acting as filters for foreign particles and cancer cells. Lymph nodes do not deal with toxicity, which is primarily dealt with by the liver and kidneys.
1 About 2 litres of lymph fluid circulate in the body every day while collecting, destroying and eliminating foreign agents and disease causing microbes. 2  There are two types of lymphocytes or white blood cells produced in the lymph nodes, called B & T lymphocytes. What Are Lymph Node, Locations And Diseases. Humans generally have immunity against pathogens and accidental infections that is owed to the presence of lymph nodes which form a part of the lymphatic system. They behave like mechanical filters and kill and eliminate microbes present in the blood stream.