The name and character of Jade is associated with many cultures, all referring to its reputed medicinal property of curing calculus stones and disorders of the kidneys or bladder. Yu-Stone to the ancient Chinese, it was called spleen-stone by the Mesoamericans. Nephrite is from the Greek word nephros, the kidney. Jade which is olive in color is one of the natural birthstones of those born in the magical month of awakening, as the greens of spring are giving way to the bright yellows of the approaching summer (May 21 - June 20). Olive crystals bring you awakening, exuberance, learning, and meaning.
Jade is an ancient stone that has historically been used to attract love. Carved into a butterfly, in China it is a powerful symbol used to draw love. Jade is also a protective stone, guarding against accidents and misfortune. Place a piece of jade between two purple candles and let the candles burn for a short while. Then carry the jade with you as a protection amulet.
~ Whitehorse woman. Confidence Builder-Jade is a stone that helps you to realize the needs of others. It is also good for helping you to understand what is of prime importance for you to do on this day. It brings confidence and self-assuredness, self-sufficiency and to be self-reliant. Jade is a confidence booster and makes you spiritual. No wonder it is called Stone from Heaven. ~David777. Calming, healing, and much more-Green Jade is not only calming and healing to the nervous system, but it also emits healing energy into the liver, bladder, gallbladder and kidneys.
Crystal Information-Products Below. Jade Crystal Meaning. Jade is as magical as it is healing. Thought in the orient to protect one from evil spirits, a travel guardian, cleanser of the environment as well as the wear, it's also stated to be one the lucky stones.
Nephrite generally occurs in creamy white, mid-to deep olive green, brown and black. It has a smooth surface polish with a waxy sheen and is more commonly found. Jadeite may be a white-gray green, leafy green, blue or blue-green, emerald green, lavender, pink, red, orange, greenish-black or black. 
Jade is also very helpful as a stone of abundance. Physically, jade is used in crystal healing for lung problems, kidney problems, immune system weakness, PTSD, and nervous system overwork. Jade is also energized by its color, and relates to those color energies as well. Jade. Jade is a stone of the heart. As such it is related to the heart chakra and has a beneficial effect on all heart chakra related issues. So, of course, it can attract and enhance love of all kinds. It is also a stone of fidelity and generosity
In this article, the word jade will be used for undifferentiated materials. Jadeite or nephrite will be used when the identity of the material is known. The word nephrite is also an imprecise term. It is used for materials composed of the minerals actinolite and tremolite. People have used jade for at least 100,000 years. The earliest objects made from jade were tools. Jade is a very hard material and is used as a tool because it is extremely tough and breaks to form sharp edges. Most jade does not have a color and translucence that is expected in a gemstone.
New Jade is not a type of jade at all. Rather, it is a type of light green Serpentine. Serpentine, the light green variety of which is also called New Jade, is a beneficial and versatile stone. It is said by mystics to help with emotional cleansing, psychic powers, and attract love and money.
(JADEITE, NEPHRITE). Jade is the gem name for mineral aggregates composed of either or both of two different minerals, Jadeite and Nephrite. Jadeite is a sodium-rich aluminous pyroxene; nephrite is a fine-grained, calcium-rich, magnesium, iron, aluminous amphibole. 