If you place the meat directly over the coals, you will burn the meat. Depending on the size of your pork belly, cook at between 150 – 180 degrees c for 4-7 hours or until the internal temperature of the pork belly is 170 oC.
Once you have applied the rub, leave the pork belly skin side up, wrapped in a cling film or a plastig bag in the fridge. Take the meat out of the fridge 1 hour before you want to put on the BBQ.
Leave the pork to dry overnight in the fridge; do not cover as you want it to dry. Heat a barbecue or griddle and slice the pork into thin slices. Place the pork slices onto the hot griddle or barbeque and brush with the marinade. Cook each side for a few minutes, or until cooked through and the skin is crisp.
Firstly, lets start with the BBQ, we recommend a charcoal BBQ with a lid and a thermometer. I tried this on a gas BBQ and couldn’t get the heat I needed in the larva rock needed to fill the whole BBQ with the heat needed. And over 5-8 hours of cooking you use a lot of gas! So charcoal it is.
This belly pork takes no time to cook on the barbecue, but an overnight preparation gets you an aromatic marinated flavour and lots of perfect crackling.
Toss in the whole thyme leaves. Put the seasoned pork belly on top of the vegetables and then put into your very hot oven for 10-15 minutes or until the skin of the belly starts to bubble and is golden brown. Turn the oven temperature down to 170°C/325°F/gas 3 then roast for 1.5 hours.
Pork belly is cut from the side of the pig; it is the same cut used to make bacon. A full pork belly is about 7 pounds, though your butcher can provide you with smaller cuts. Many recipes for barbecued pork don't involve an outdoor grill. These recipes roast or braise the pork using a barbecue sauce for flavor.
Pork belly is ideal for roasting or slow cooking. Most people love a good hog roast and indirect cooking a pork belly joint or shoulder or pork on the BBQ is just as good. You can cook the pork as it is or to create a wonderful aroma from the BBQ and great flavour, create a rub for the pork.
Place the pan with the seasoned pork belly into the preheated oven and roast for 2.5-3 hours, depending on the thickness of your meat. Halfway through the process you may want to remove the pork belly and transfer it to a new pan, as the rendered fat will begin to smoke if gets too hot.