The reform era of policing America was heavily influenced by the Progressive political movement which emphasized government reform and regulation of society to improve the living conditions of citizens. The negative aspects of the Reform Era was the emphasis on defining policing as enforcing the law with insufficient regard for the impact of police methodology on the citizenry.
Three Eras of American Policing American policing began in the middle 1800’s. Policing began to change America with the first era of policing. There are a total of three eras of policing. Each era of policing changed over time and advanced during each era. The first era is called the political era. It... Because of the apparent political ties corruption was very common. This policing era is referred to as the political era. During the political era residents were not able to “call” upon an officer for assistance.
While the Political Era of policing emphasized close relationships and contact between police and the communities they served on foot patrol with very little oversight from command structure, the Reform era put police officers in patrol cars, with much closer supervision by their chain of command. The negative aspects of the Reform Era was the emphasis on defining policing as enforcing the law with insufficient regard for the impact of police methodology on the citizenry.
POLITICAL POLICING. Political Policing is the way in which the process of policing the community acts in the maintainance and reinforcement of deference to authority. Political Policing can also mean more narrowly the way in which police activity, while superficially about maintenance of the criminal law, can be about the control or surveillance of particular social groups and communities.
The first major era of policing is known as the political era, it was called the political era because the police and the government were closely tied. The police needed both legitimacy and resources to operate. The third, and current era of policing is the community-policing era. The fear of crime started to increase during the 70’s as did the publics view of the police. Citizens began to appreciate, and even demand more foot patrols. During this era the police sought legitimacy from public support, and from the law.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The community era of policing started in 1980 and continues to the present day. The primary function of this era is to continue to control crime while providing a broader range of social services. The police are returning to the community and becoming more involved with the problems of the people. 
Policing as we know it today has developed from various political, economic, and social forces. To better understand the role of police in society, one has to know the history of how policing became what it is today. Policing has been categorized into three basic eras, which include the Political Era... Because of the apparent political ties corruption was very common. This policing era is referred to as the political era. During the political era residents were not able to “call” upon an officer for assistance.
There are three specific periods of policing that the 19th and 20th centuries embraced: political era, reform era, and community era. During the political era (1840s-1930s) the functions of law enforcement were controlled by the local politicians. 
Political Era & Policing. ~ During this era, police were used by politicians to maintain their power. ~ Police officers were considered a political reward. ~ They were driven by a community's interests in improving their quality of life, political influence was the reason they were so involved in their neighborhood. Corruption reduction. ~ Progressives supported prohibition in order to destroy the political power of local bosses. ~ There were efforts made by August Vollmer, a pioneer of police professionalism who railed police executives around the idea of reform during the 1920-1930's.
The police have had three major eras throughout their history. Which was the political era, the professional era, and the community-policing era. The police had distinctly different goals, structure, and results during each of these eras. Each of the shifts from one era to another was brought on by a demand from citizens, the government, and at times a minority group. The third, and current era of policing is the community-policing era. The fear of crime started to increase during the 70’s as did the publics view of the police. Citizens began to appreciate, and even demand more foot patrols. During this era the police sought legitimacy from public support, and from the law.