The economies of Chile and Venezuela differ based on the fact that they have different trades. For Chile it is considered to be the leader in the export destination and has de … feated Venezuela. 
Basic Facts on Venezuela. Venezuela, named the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela since 1999, is located on the northern coast of South America. The country comprises a continental mainland and numerous islands in the Caribbean Sea. It borders Guyana to the east, Brazil to the south, and Colombia to the west. Venezuela, named the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela since 1999, is located on the northern coast of South America. The country comprises a continental mainland and numerous islands in the Caribbean Se
The economy of Venezuela is largely based on the petroleum sector and manufacturing. Revenue from petroleum exports accounts for more than 50% of the country's GDP and roughly 95% of total exports. Venezuela is the fifth largest member of OPEC by oil production. From the 1950s to the early 1980s the Venezuelan economy experienced a steady growth that attracted many immigrants, with the nation enjoying the highest standard of living in Latin America.
Manufacturing contributed 17% of GDP in 2006. Venezuela manufactures and exports heavy industry products such as steel, aluminium and cement, with production concentrated around Ciudad Guayana, near the Guri Dam, one of the largest in the world and the provider of about three-quarters of Venezuela's electricity. Venezuela is the fifth largest member of OPEC by oil production. From the 1950s to the early 1980s the Venezuelan economy experienced a steady growth that attracted many immigrants, with the nation enjoying the highest standard of living in Latin America.
Venezuela’s economic freedom score is 34.3, making its economy the 176th freest in the 2015 Index. Its score has decreased by 2.0 points since last year, reflecting declines in half of the 10 economic freedoms including labor freedom, monetary freedom, investment freedom, and business freedom. Venezuela’s top individual and corporate income tax rates are 34 percent. Other taxes include a value-added tax. The overall tax burden amounts to 13.6 percent of the domestic economy.
Venezuela has an economy that is based on free trade, but has a heavy socialist bent. Many companies in agribusiness, steel, oil, tourism and banking have been nationalized. It is ranked by the Her... Read More ». Kuwait has a free-market economy. As of 2010, Kuwait does not tax personal income or domestic businesses. The main tax is a 15 percent tax on foreign-owned firms.
China once had a socialist, planned economy where the government (one party) controlled and owned all the means and methods of production. China currently has a very strange m … ix of socialist, capitalist, and communist ideas for their economy. It is unique in the world, and often really defies categorization. While many capitalist ideas are in place, several core tenets of capitalism do not exist (sanctity of contracts, private property ownership). The US has a Mixed Economy. This means that the system is a mix of a Free/ Market Economy (no government interference) and a Centrally Planned Economy (controlled by governmen … t).
Follow The Money. Venezuela ’s economic structure has undergone a significant change since Hugo Chavez’s government came into power in 1999. President Chavez has announced the nationalization of several industries in the nation since 2007, including the communications and electricity sectors. 
In spite of strained relations between the two countries, the United States is Venezuela's most important trading partner. U.S. exports to Venezuela include machinery, agricultural products, medical instruments, and cars. Venezuela is the fifth largest member of OPEC by oil production. From the 1950s to the early 1980s the Venezuelan economy experienced a steady growth that attracted many immigrants, with the nation enjoying the highest standard of living in Latin America.