The Rouffignac cave and the Villars cave possess the most extensive cave system of the Perigord périgord with more than 8 kilometers of underground passage. Ways there are 10 natural shafts that lead to a deeper. level The Rouffignac cave and the Villars cave possess the most extensive cave system of the Perigord périgord with more than 8 kilometers of underground passage. ways
visitor information. Directions to Rouffignac Caves : The Rouffignac Caves are located around 5km south of the commune of Rouffignac in the Dordogne region of France, approx. 35km south of Perigueux, which has a train station with routes to Limoges and Paris. It is also 60km northeast of Bergerac, 140km south of Limoges and 161km east of Bordeaux.
Visit Grotte de Rouffignac. The Grotte de Rouffignac is home to over a hundred engravings and line-drawings of mammoths earning it the nickname of the cave of a hundred mammoths. The images date back to the Upper Paleolithic period, about 13000 years BP. Explore the Grotte de Rouffignac. The cave is over eight kilometers long and is explored whilst riding on an electric train-making it a favourite with children, though be aware you are plunged into darkness at one point! There are over 250 images in total and 158 of these are mammoths
Site: Rock Art. Boarding the electric train. Rouffignac is one of the largest caves in the area, certainly the largest open to the public. There are over 8 kilometres of underground caverns and tunnels. Visitors are taken to the prehistoric art on an electric train, a journey deep into the cave that lasts about an hour. 
Location. Rouffignac Cave, also known as Miremont cave, Cro de Granville or Cro des Cluzeau, is located on a hill slope alongside the La Binche river, in the French commune of Rouffignac-Saint-Cernin, in the department of the Dordogne. They account for about a third of all mammoth-images in European cave art-hence Rouffignac's nickname Cave of the Hundred Mammoths. (3) Its extraordinary ceiling (Le Grand Plafond de Rouffignac) decorated with a swirling ensemble of 60 large black drawings of horses, mammoths, ibex and bison.
One of the largest caves in the region, Rouffignac is a development of about eight kilometres of galleries on three levels with corridors unusually voluminous in the Perigord. périgord 
The entry to the Rouffignac cave. The Cave of the hundred mammoths, also known as Miremont cave, Cro des Cluzeau or Cro de Granville, is situated about 5 kilometers south of Rouffignac on a hill slope along the right hand side of the La Binche river, a left tributary of the Manaurie. The Rouffignac cave and the Villars cave possess the most extensive cave system of the Perigord périgord with more than 8 kilometers of underground passage. ways