The average cost of a rehearsal dinner is $1,330—about one-twentieth of the price of the wedding. While some in-laws foot the bill, more couples are paying for it themselves. You can still have a fun night. You just have to be strategic, says Leslie Lukas, an event planner in Bozeman, Montana. The costs for planning your wedding includes more than just those for the day of: You have to take into account everything you might need for your bridal party, your bridal shower and bachelorette party, and, of course, your rehearsal dinner.
However, it is best to budget for all wedding expenses, including the rehearsal dinner. As CNN notes in a May 2005 article entitled Ka-ching! Wedding price tag nears $30K, the 2005 average cost of a rehearsal dinner was $1153, up 51 percent from 1999. CNN also noted that the average wedding in 2005 cost $26,327. With this number and at the cost of $15 per person, she was able to have a fun rehearsal dinner with an organic, vegetarian menu for only $525 (plus tax and gratuities). Compare that to a Dallas bride who spent $4000 on her rehearsal BBQ dinner for 100 guests. Keeping guest numbers low can really make a difference.
1 A rehearsal dinner can cost as little as $10 to $30 per person for a simple affair held in the host's home. 2  Examples include an Italian-themed event with lasagna and Chianti, a back-yard cookout with burgers, a pizza party or a cocktail party. 3  TheKnot.com offers a list of casual rehearsal dinner ideas. 1 Some restaurants charge a small room rental fee and do not charge for use of flatware and stemware. 2  Brides.com offers ideas. 3  An elaborate rehearsal dinner can cost $70 to $250 per person and even higher. 4  Ideas include a catered meal at a reception hall or a multi-course meal in a high-end restaurant or upscale hotel.
1 An elaborate rehearsal dinner can cost $70 to $250 per person and even higher. 2  Ideas include a catered meal at a reception hall or a multi-course meal in a high-end restaurant or upscale hotel. 1 Some restaurants charge a small room rental fee and do not charge for use of flatware and stemware. 2  Brides.com offers ideas. 3  An elaborate rehearsal dinner can cost $70 to $250 per person and even higher. 4  Ideas include a catered meal at a reception hall or a multi-course meal in a high-end restaurant or upscale hotel.
One Philadelphia bride from WeddingBee cites that she threw a rehearsal dinner in the Chinatown section of Philadelphia and only invited 35 people. With this number and at the cost of $15 per person, she was able to have a fun rehearsal dinner with an organic, vegetarian menu for only $525 (plus tax and gratuities). Compare that to a Dallas bride who spent $4000 on her rehearsal BBQ dinner for 100 guests. Keeping guest numbers low can really make a difference.
Enjoy the fabulous view on the eve of your wedding by booking one of our three rooms. We have space to accommodate 25–150 guests. The average cost of a dinner is $30 per person plus room rental charges. Please see Reservoir Pointe dinner menu for menu options. When booking both Rehearsal Dinner and Reception, enjoy a $200 discount on both days' room rental charges. 
Typical costs: Related articles: Bridal Shower, Wedding Caterer. 1  A rehearsal dinner can cost as little as $10 to $30 per person for a simple affair held in the host's home. 2  Examples include an Italian-themed event with lasagna and Chianti, a back-yard cookout with burgers, a pizza party or a cocktail party. 1 Some restaurants charge a small room rental fee and do not charge for use of flatware and stemware. 2  Brides.com offers ideas. 3  An elaborate rehearsal dinner can cost $70 to $250 per person and even higher. 4  Ideas include a catered meal at a reception hall or a multi-course meal in a high-end restaurant or upscale hotel.
$1,306. In 2015, the average cost of a wedding rehearsal dinner is between $1198 - $1414. A rehearsal dinner is a pre-wedding ceremony, usually held after the wedding rehearsal and the night before the wedding. 1  Rehearsal dinners can be informal or formal. 2  Factors that most effect price: type of venue, type of food, staff wages and gratuity. A rehearsal dinner is an excellent time to introduce your guests to one another before they gather for your wedding. Especially if you have people coming from far and wide, you'll want to make sure there are no awkward silences at the dinner table. $1,306.