Compressed Nerve Definition. A compressed nerve results when the nerve roots in the spinal cord are irritated or pinched. Sciatica is the lay term usually used to describe the pain caused by compression of the spinal nerves, and radiculopathy and radicular pain are the terms usually used by clinicians. If a nerve is compressed in the low back, the affect of the disc material against the nerve root causes pain to radiate into the buttocks and back of the thigh and calf, and may extend down to the foot. Numbness, tingling, and/or a burning or prickling sensation are also common symptom
Pinched median nerve. A pinched nerve occurs when too much pressure is applied to a nerve by surrounding tissues, such as bones, cartilage, muscles or tendons. This pressure disrupts the nerve's function, causing pain, tingling, numbness or weakness. A herniated disk in your lower spine, for example, may put pressure on a nerve root, causing pain that radiates down the back of your leg. Likewise, a pinched nerve in your wrist can lead to pain and numbness in your hand and fingers (carpal tunnel syndrome).
Nerve compression syndrome or compression neuropathy, also known as entrapment neuropathy, is a medical condition caused by direct pressure on a single nerve. It is known colloquially as a trapped nerve, though this may also refer to nerve root compression (by a herniated disc, for example). 
A pinched nerve is a nerve under pressure. This pressure often comes from surrounding bone or soft tissues. A nerve under enough pressure will lose its ability to carry accurate signals, and its wayward signals can cause a variety of sensations in the body. For example, when a nerve is pinched or compressed, it can trigger the nerve to falsely signal pain. The compression also can limit the nerve’s ability to control the muscles it serves. One of the most common places for a pinched nerve to occur is within the spine.
Nerve compression: Introduction. Nerve compression is a condition of the nervous system in which a nerve is pressed or compressed. Nerve compression results in abnormal functioning of the nerve. Typical symptoms of nerve compression include numbness, pain, and loss of function of the affected area
Pinched nerve describes one type of damage or injury to a nerve or set of nerves. Nerves are important for carrying signals to and from the brain, for example to make limbs move and to use senses, like touch. The injury may result from compression, constriction, or stretching. 
A pinched nerve is the name given to the uncomfortable sensation, pain, or numbness caused when increased pressure leads to irritation or damage to a peripheral nerve (A peripheral nerve is one that is outside the brain and spinal cord .). If the nerve is compressed for a short amount of time, it is often able to repair itself but it may take several weeks or months for the symptoms to fully resolve. However, if the compression remains present for a long time, permanent nerve injury may occur.
Causes of Pinched Nerves. A pinched nerve occurs when there is compression (pressure) on a nerve. The pressure may be the result of repetitive motions. Or it may happen from holding your body in one position for long periods, such as keeping elbows bent while sleeping. 
The term pinched nerve describes one type of damage or injury to a nerve or set of nerves. The injury may result from compression, constriction, or stretching. Symptoms include numbness, pins and needles or burning sensations, and pain radiating outward from the injured area. 