Conservation Actions: White-nosed coatis are classified as an endangered species in New Mexico and they are given total legal protection there. However, in Arizona, where most of the coatis in the United States live, they are subject to year round hunting. Coatis are listed in Appendix III of CITES by Honduras. Range Description: The range of the white-nosed coati extends from Arizona and parts of southern New Mexico in the United States through Mexico (except the Baja peninsula and central Sierra Madres) and Central America to Panama and marginally into South America in areas west of the Andes (Glatston, 1994).
Conservation Actions. White-nosed coatis are classified as an endangered species in New Mexico and they are given total legal protection there. However, in Arizona, where most of the coatis in the United States live, they are subject to year round hunting. Coatis are listed in Appendix III of CITES by Honduras. The range of the white-nosed coati extends from Arizona and parts of southern New Mexico in the United States through Mexico (except the Baja peninsula and central Sierra Madres) and Central America to Panama and marginally into South America in areas west of the Andes (Glatston, 1994).
Ring-tailed coati inhabits dense forests and wet jungles. This animal is listed as least concern, which means that is not on the list of endangered species. Interesting Ring-tailed coati Facts: Ring-tailed coati is a medium sized animal. Ring-tailed coati Facts. Ring-tailed coati is a mammal that belongs to the order Carnivores. It is also known as South-American coati, because it can be found only in South America. Ring-tailed coati lives in tropical and subtropical areas of Andes, Colombia, Guianas, Uruguay and Argentina
GEOGRAPHICAL RANGE AND HABITAT: There are four different species of coati, two of which, the Ring-tailed Coati and the Mountain Coati, are found in South America, and the remaining two coati species, the White-nosed Coati and the Cozumel Island Coati, are both found in Mexico.
The coatimundi live in the tropical rainforests of South America  and in parts of Mexico. The species named the ring-tailed  coatimundi and mountain coati are found in many … countries of South  America. While the species named the white-nosed coati and Cozumel  Island coati live in Mexico. The Coatimundi belongs to the raccoon  family. 
The above measurements are for the White-nosed (nasua narica) and Brown-Nosed coatis. The Brown-Nosed (Nasua nasua) is also commonly called a ring-tailed coati, or South-American Coati. The Cozumel Island (Nasua narica nelsoni) and the Mountain Coatis (Nasuella olivacea) are in the lower range of these measurements. There are four different species of coati, two of which, the Ring-tailed Coati and the Mountain Coati, are found in South America, and the remaining two coati species, the White-nosed Coati and the Cozumel Island Coati, are both found in Mexico.
Coatis belong to the larger raccoon family, which comprises 18 species, all native to the Americas. The White-nosed Coati is native to Arizona, Texas, New Mexico, Mexico, Central America and Colombia. Coatis are omnivorous and are often seen feeding on invertebrates, fruits, small vertebrates (such as lizards and rodents) and eggs. In New Mexico they are classed as an endangered species and are protected. Meeting the coatis at Melbourne Zoo is more than just a fascinating experience. A visit to Melbourne Zoo helps to raise much needed funds, contributing to the care and upkeep of animals like the coati.
The South American coati, or ring-tailed coati (Nasua nasua), is a species of coati from tropical and subtropical South America. In Brazilian Portuguese it is known as quati. The only documented records of white-nosed coatis in South America are from far northwestern Colombia (Gulf of Uraba urabá, region Near colombian border With). Panama the smaller mountain coatis are mainly found at altitudes above The South american, coati but there is considerable. overlap