Later that year, the production staff of World News Now took over production responsibilities for the network's early-morning news program World News This Morning, with both programs sharing anchor staffs as a result.
Millions of early bird TV viewers had their hearts broken Friday when ABC News anchor Vinita Nair broke the news she was leaving World News Now.. Nair has anchored the early morning news show since Sept. 2008. She joined ABC News in 2007.
ABC World News Now co-anchor Vinita Nair called it quits this morning. Nair, who has co-hosted the somewhat unusual news show since 2008, has been praised for her light-hearted on-air personality. She leaves behind a number of fun memories, including an on-air wedding polka.
Team — I’m thrilled to announce that T.J. Holmes is officially joining “America This Morning” and “World News Now” as co-anchor.
Read Goldston’s full memo below: Team — I’m thrilled to announce that T.J. Holmes is officially joining “America This Morning” and “World News Now” as co-anchor. In addition to his anchor duties, he will also report across our all broadcast and digital platforms.
He did fill-in anchor work at MSNBC and ABC. Read the full memo, below: Team—. I’m thrilled to announce that T.J. Holmes is officially joining America This Morning and World News Now as co-anchor. In addition to his anchor duties, he will also report across our all broadcast and digital platforms.
ABC News has named T.J. Holmes co-anchor of “America This Morning” and “World News Now,” network president James Goldston announced Tuesday.
James. Reena Ninan has been named co-anchor of America This Morning and World News Now, ABC News announced this morning. Ninan joins former CNN anchor T.J. Holmes at the anchor desk, where she has been filling in for some time.
T.J. Holmes is officially joining “America This Morning” and “World News Now” as. co-anchor. In addition to his anchor duties, he will also report across. our all broadcast and digital platforms. T.J. has impressed us all for the past few months with his vibrant storytelling, engaging style, and quick wit.