Skylar /sky-lar/ [2 sylls.] as a name for boys (also used more generally as girls' name Skylar) is of Danish origin, and the name Skylar means scholar, protection; fugitive; giving shelter. Skylar is a version of Schuyler (Danish). Skylar is also a form of Skyler (Danish). Kreatif forms: Shalar, Skylarro, Skylom. 
The meaning of Skylar has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Skylar are: 1  Dutch meaning: Guarded; scholar, learned one. 2  American meaning: The Sky. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Skylar and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Skylar is fascinating, learn more about it.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Skylar and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Skylar and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Skylar is fascinating, learn more about it.
Meaning of Skylar. Dutch name. In Dutch, the name Skylar means-A spelling variation of the surname Schuyler.. Other origins for the name Skylar include-Dutch, Scandinavian, English.The name Skylar is most often used as a girl name or female name. Dutch Name Meaning-A spelling variation of the surname Schuyler. Origin-Dutch
The name Skyler or Skylar is an anglicized spelling of the surname and given name Schuyler. Schuyler was originally introduced as to America by 17th century as a Dutch surname by settlers arriving in New York. 
Skylar /sky-lar/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls (also used less regularly as boys' name Skylar) is of Dutch derivation, and the meaning of the name Skylar is fugitive. Skylar is an alternate spelling of Skyler (Dutch). Siglar is a common last name. See also Skye. Skylar is a rare first name for females but a somewhat popular surname for all people (#138741 out of 150436, Top 92%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Skylar for girls. Skylar was first listed in 1990 and reached its top rank of #48 in the U.S. in the year 2014.
[ 2 syll. (s)ky-lar, sk-yl-ar ] The baby girl name Skylar is also used as a boy name, though it is more frequently a girl name. It is pronounced as SK AY LaaR †. Skylar is of Dutch origin and it is used mainly in English. The meaning of Skylar is 'student, scholar'. It represents the transferred use of the surname as a given name. See Skylar for more information. Forms of Skylar include the name Skylare, the name Skylarr, the English Skyler, the name Skylir, the name Skyllar, the name Skylor, the name Skylur, and the name Skyylar. Skylar is popular as a baby girl name.
What does Skylar mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Skylar is of Dutch origin. The meaning of Skylar is sheltering, scholar. It is also of English origin, where its meaning is protection, shelter. View the Skylar Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Skylar has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Skylar to other names. Skylar is a variant spelling of Schuyler. Variants of the name Skylar include Skyler.
English Meaning: The name Skylar is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Skylar is: Phonetic spelling of Schuyler. American Meaning: The name Skylar is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Skylar is: Phonetic spelling of Schuyler.