A legume (/ˈlɛɡjuːm/ or /ˌləˈɡjuːm/) is a plant in the family Fabaceae (or Leguminosae), or the fruit or seed of such a plant. Legumes are grown agriculturally, primarily for their food grain seed (example beans and lentils, or generally pulse), for livestock forage and silage, and as soil-enhancing green manure. Legumes are notable in that most of them have symbiotic nitrogen-fixing bacteria in structures called root nodules.
A legume fruit is a simple dry fruit that develops from a simple carpel and usually dehisces (opens along a seam) on two sides. A common name for this type of fruit is a pod, although the term pod is also applied to a few other fruit types, such as that of vanilla (a capsule) and of radish (a silique). Legumes are grown agriculturally, primarily for their food grain seed (example beans and lentils, or generally pulse), for livestock forage and silage, and as soil-enhancing green manure. Legumes are notable in that most of them have symbiotic nitrogen-fixing bacteria in structures called root nodules.
All types of legumes and all types of beans are healthy for your body in all different ways. The more variety you can find a way to incorporate into your diet, the more balanced and whole your system will be. Otherwise, they're pressed in tofu, tempeh, and soy milk, and the byproducts are used for everything from oil to rubber tires. I hope you've enjoyed this list of the different types of legumes and beans. Add as many different kinds as you can to your diet.
Types of Legumes. Legumes include all forms of beans and peas from the Fabaceae (or Leguminosae) botanical family. There are thousands of different species of legume plants. The legume family of plants includes pulses which are the dried seed of l
Types of Legumes. The most popular legume plants are peas and beans. Pole or bush beans provide long slender pods, while peas may be shell or edible pods. Stringless varieties of beans are easier to eat and snow or sugar peas have such soft shells that the entire pea is delicious eaten whole. The range of legume plant forms includes vine types to creeping ground covers. All legumes are flowering and most have a flower that produces a thickened petal or keel that is formed by two petals that fuse together.
This arrangement means that the root nodules are sources of nitrogen for legumes, making them relatively rich in plant proteins. All proteins contain nitrogenous amino acids. Nitrogen is therefore a necessary ingredient in the production of proteins. Hence, legumes are among the best sources of plant protein. Legumes are grown agriculturally, primarily for their food grain seed (example beans and lentils, or generally pulse), for livestock forage and silage, and as soil-enhancing green manure. Legumes are notable in that most of them have symbiotic nitrogen-fixing bacteria in structures called root nodules.
Legumes encompass a wide range of edible nuts and vegetables. There are also legume plants that are not edible but have many of the same benefits for soil health. Legume pods easily break into two equal hemispheres, but not all legumes produce pods. The range of legume plant forms includes vine types to creeping ground covers. All legumes are flowering and most have a flower that produces a thickened petal or keel that is formed by two petals that fuse together.
These are kidney, cranberry and black beans, among others. Outside of these popular legume plants, there are also other types of legumes. There are 18,000 species of plants in the family. The tipu tree, Moreton Bay chestnut, Acacia and Albizia are all forms of legumes from around the globe. Even the common peanut is a member of the legume family. The range of legume plant forms includes vine types to creeping ground covers. All legumes are flowering and most have a flower that produces a thickened petal or keel that is formed by two petals that fuse together.