SEARCH. The motion of flexion and extension of the elbow joint is directed by the muscles of the brachium. The powerful muscles of this group include the biceps brachii, the brachioradialis, the brachialis, and the triceps brachii. Just along the rim of the elbow joint, over the distal portion of the triceps brachii, there lies and additional muscle bearing the shape of a triangle. This short muscle is known as the anconeus.
Best Answer: The agonist for flexion at the elbow is the brachialis, the antagonist is the triceps. The agonist muscle is: The antagonist muscle is: There is also an agonist and an antagoninst muscle involved in the extension of your elbow. The agonist muscle is: The antagonist muscle is: Follow. 2 answers 2. Report Abuse.
Agonist muscles and antagonist muscles refer to muscles that cause or inhibit a movement. Agonist muscles cause a movement to occur through their own contraction. For example, the triceps brachii contracts during the up phase of a push-up (elbow extension). During the down phase of a push-up, the same triceps brachii actively controls elbow flexion while relaxing. Antagonist muscles oppose a specific movement. This controls a motion, slows it down, and returns a limb to its initial position. Antagonism is not an intrinsic property; it is a role that a muscle plays depending on the motion. If a motion is reversed, agonist and antagonist muscles switch roles.
The biceps brachii is an agonist for elbow flexion. It is assisted by the brachialis and the brachioradialis. These are the agonists of elbow flexion, all of which are capable of flexing the elbow joint to some extent. During elbow flexion, the angular component, the one that makes the radius move around the elbow joint, is the swing component. The brachioradialis is an example of a shunt muscle, which is able to provide a compressive force. A certain muscle may exert a stronger spurt or shunt force.
During elbow flexion where the bicep is the agonist, the tricep muscle is the antagonist. While the agonist contracts causing the movement to occur, the antagonist typically relaxes so as not to impede the agonist, as seen in the image above. Agonist: The agonist in a movement is the muscle(s) that provides the major force to complete the movement. Because of this agonists are known as the ‘prime movers’. In the bicep curl which produces flexion at the elbow, the biceps muscle is the agonist, as seen in the image below.
When the elbow joint flexes, a synergistic contraction of the brachialis and the biceps brachii is required. The most obvious and easily discernable muscle of the forearm, which runs along the radial side, is the brachioradialis. This muscle is also responsible for the flexing of the elbow joint. The powerful muscles of this group include the biceps brachii, the brachioradialis, the brachialis, and the triceps brachii. Just along the rim of the elbow joint, over the distal portion of the triceps brachii, there lies and additional muscle bearing the shape of a triangle. This short muscle is known as the anconeus.
With elbow extension, the triceps would be the agonist and the biceps would be the antagonist. With elbow flexion, the biceps would be the agonist and the triceps would be the antagonist Stabilizer-the muscle may contract to hold a body part immobile while another body part is moving. Examples: the biceps can flex the elbow and supinate the forearm. If only elbow flexion is wanted, the supination component must be ruled out. Therefore, the pronator teres, which pronates the forearm, would contract to counteract the supination component of the biceps, and only elbow flexion would occur.
The elbow is a synovial hinge joint located between the upper arm and forearm. It is formed by the meeting of three bones: the humerus in the upper arm and the ulna and radius in the lower arm. Like all other hinge joints, the elbow permits movement in one plane, namely the flexion and extension of the forearm relative to the upper arm. Although it is found mostly in the forearm, the brachioradialis is the third flexor muscle of the elbow, running from the distal end of the humerus to the distal end of the radius.
synergist on elbow flexion & antagonist on elbow extension. biceps brachii, brachialis, brachioradialis, flexor carpi radialis, flexor carpi ulnaris, palmaris longus, pronator teres, extensor carpi radialis, extensor carpi radialis brevis. 