Photo Credit Thinkstock/Stockbyte/Getty Images. The hamstrings consist of three main muscles -- biceps femoris, semitendinosus and semimembranosus -- extending from your sit-bones to your knees. These muscles are responsible for bending your knees. Key Functions. Because your hamstrings cross the knee and hip joints, they work to bend your knees and draw your hips backwards. When executing explosive movement, these muscles play an important part in shifting the load from your knees to your hips.
The hamstrings muscle group comprises just three muscles. The muscles of the quadriceps are the rectus femoris, vastus intermedius, vastus lateralis and vastus medialis. The hamstrings are located on the back of the upper leg, and the quadriceps are located on the front of the upper leg. The hamstrings run from an attachment point just below the knee all the way up to the pelvis.
In human anatomy, a hamstring is any of the three tendons contracted by three posterior thigh muscles (semitendinosus, semimembranosus and biceps femoris), and the term is often also used to refer to the muscles themselves. 
The function of the quads is to extend the knee, which in turn straightens the leg, and the Rectus Femoris also flexes the hip. The quadriceps are the largest and most powerful muscles group in the body, which makes sense really as they are required to move and support the largest bone in the body, the Femur. A very important point about the quadriceps muscle in relation to runners is that all four of those powerful muscles attach to the Patella, that tiny knee bone! These muscles, especially the vastus medialis play the role of stabilising the knee joint.
Quadriceps and Hamstring Exercises. Quadriceps, Hamstrings (also, gluteus and calves): The quadriceps (the muscles on the front of your thigh) are the most important muscles in sports. They determine how fast you run, how high you jump, and how hard you can push. Coming in second are the combination of hamstring and gluteus (butt) muscles. For this reason some hamstring exercises have also been included at the end of the list. Note that you gluteus (butt) and lower leg (calve) muscles will also get a workout as they support the quads and hamstrings in each exercise. Prerequisites: 1  How to Warm Up. 2  How to Stretch.
Injury Prevention. Because the hamstrings and quadriceps perform such important functions, avoiding injuries is crucial for athletes. Lack of strength and conditioning and tightness can cause injuries, so performing strengthening exercises and stretching can help you avoid strains. The hamstrings are located on the back of the upper leg, and the quadriceps are located on the front of the upper leg. The hamstrings run from an attachment point just below the knee all the way up to the pelvis.
The importance of quadriceps and hamstring muscle loading on knee kinematics and in-situ forces in the ACL. Li G(1), Rudy TW, Sakane M, Kanamori A, Ma CB, Woo SL. Author information: (1)Musculoskeletal Research Center, Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of Pittsburgh, PA, USA. gli@obl.bidmc.harvard.edu. 
Before stretching your hamstrings it is important to ask why these muscles get tight in the first place. Like with most things, it is important to address the cause of the problem rather than the symptom. You have 3 Hamstring muscles that run up the back of your thighs, the Semimembranosus, Semitendinosus, and Biceps Femoris. Your hamstring muscles are responsible for knee flexion (pulling your heels to your buttocks) and hip extension (driving your upper leg backwards).
Stretching Hamstrings is always a challenge. The hamstrings are a group of muscles in the back of your thigh that you use constantly to hold yourself upright. Hence, they are prone to becoming tight. They consist of the biceps femoris, semimembranosus, and the semitendinosus. 