While for the most part humans and elephants work well together, that isn’t always the case. When we hear stories of these animals being violent we have to remember that they are wild animals. The fact that we have become used to seeing them around people doesn’t mean that as a whole they have become domesticated. This is because they elephant is well known to being intelligent and capable of experiencing the same emotions as humans. Humans are the only real predators of elephants. The fact that we continue to destroy the natural habitat where these animals live is upsetting. Thanks to the efforts of many conservation groups pressure is being placed on governments and on society to stop these changes
Basic facts about Elephants. An Elephant is the largest living land animal, they are mammals. There are three species of elephants the African Bush Elephant, the African forest elephant and the Asian Elephant. Elephants are classified as a Pachydermata, the scientifc name for the African Elephant is Loxodonta Africana. 
Usually in mammals tusks are enlarged canine teeth, but in elephants they are actually elongated incisors and are essentially no different from other teeth. One third of the tusk is actually hidden from view, embedded deep in the elephant’s head. Hunting for Ivory. Ivory poaching for tusks is the main reason that elephants have been so heavily hunted. Elephant ivory has been used in huge amounts to make billiards balls, piano keys, identification chops and many other items for human enjoyment.
Relation Between Elephants and Humans. The relationship between humans and elephants has had its ups and downs. Some people are out to destroy them, thinking that hunting of these massive animals is the ultimate thrill. This is because they elephant is well known to being intelligent and capable of experiencing the same emotions as humans. Humans are the only real predators of elephants. The fact that we continue to destroy the natural habitat where these animals live is upsetting. Thanks to the efforts of many conservation groups pressure is being placed on governments and on society to stop these changes
The elephant's brain is similar to that of humans in terms of structure and complexity—such as the elephant's cortex having as many neurons as a human brain, suggesting convergent evolution. Elephants are thought to be highly altruistic animals that even aid other species, including humans, in distress. In India, an elephant was helping locals lift logs by following a truck and placing the logs in pre-dug holes upon instruction from the mahout (elephant trainer).
Elephants use their tusks for a variety of tasks. Principally, they are formidable weapons against potential predators like the tiger (although tigers will only ever attack young or juvenile elephants) or in battle against other elephants. Hunting for Ivory. Ivory poaching for tusks is the main reason that elephants have been so heavily hunted. Elephant ivory has been used in huge amounts to make billiards balls, piano keys, identification chops and many other items for human enjoyment.
Elephants are among the world's most intelligent species. With a mass of just over 5 kg (11 lb), elephant brains have more mass than those of any other land animal, and although the largest whales have body masses twenty-fold those of a typical elephant, whale brains are barely twice the mass of an elephant's brain. Elephants are thought to be highly altruistic animals that even aid other species, including humans, in distress. In India, an elephant was helping locals lift logs by following a truck and placing the logs in pre-dug holes upon instruction from the mahout (elephant trainer).
A war elephant was an elephant trained and guided by humans for combat. Their main use was to charge the enemy, trampling them and breaking their ranks and instilling terror. A division of war elephants is known as elephantry. 
For whatever purposes elephants are being domesticated, it is important that they are trained from young. Over the centuries, elephants have been domesticated for 3 main tasks: 1.WARFARE. Elephants were trained and used in warfare in India, China and Persia over the centuries. Domestication And Use Of Elephants. When dealing with creatures that possess as high a level of understanding and insight, elephants have proved to be most industrious and helpful to mankind. It is imperative that, in recognising their value and potential, we take the utmost care to protect this most precious resource.