Full Definition of FELDSPAR. : any of a group of crystalline minerals that consist of aluminum silicates with either potassium, sodium, calcium, or barium and that are an essential constituent of nearly all crystalline rocks. See feldspar defined for English-language learners. See feldspar defined for kids
moonstone-a transparent or translucent gemstone with a pearly luster; some specimens are orthoclase feldspar and others are plagioclase feldspar. spar-any of various nonmetallic minerals (calcite or feldspar) that are light in color and transparent or translucent and cleavable. Translations. 1 Orthochrysotile. 2  orthoclase. 3  orthoclase. 4  orthoclase ceramic feldspar. 5  orthoclase ceramic feldspar. 6  orthoclase ceramic feldspar. 7  orthoclase ceramics. 8  orthoclase ceramics. 9
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: orthoclase (Noun). Potassium aluminum silicate, KAlSiO, a common feldspar of igneous, plutonic, and metamorphic rocks. Orthoclase is the main feldspar of pegmatite occurrences, where it is most commonly flesh-colored. Orthoclase is an important tectosilicate mineral which forms igneous rock. The name is from the Greek for straight fracture, because its two cleavage planes are at right angles to each other. Alternate names are alkali feldspar, potassium feldspar and K-feldspar.
Definition of ORTHOCLASE. : a monoclinic mineral of the feldspar group consisting of a silicate of potassium and aluminum. See orthoclase defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
feldspar. n. 1. (Minerals) any of a group of hard rock-forming minerals consisting of aluminium silicates of potassium, sodium, calcium, or barium: the principal constituents of igneous rocks. The group includes orthoclase, microcline, and the plagioclase minerals. 1 Orthochrysotile. 2  orthoclase. 3  orthoclase. 4  orthoclase ceramic feldspar. 5  orthoclase ceramic feldspar. 6  orthoclase ceramic feldspar. 7  orthoclase ceramics. 8  orthoclase ceramics. 9
The Gemstone Orthoclase. Orthoclase as a mineral is a common feldspar, but when described as a gemstone it refers to a rare transparent yellowish form of the mineral Sanidine that is found in Madagascar. The color of Orthoclase gemstones is natural and is not enhanced by heat treatment. Occasionally the colorless, transparent forms from Switzerland are also cut as gemstones, but in general Orthoclase gemstones are yellow.
orthoclase. n. 1. (Minerals) a white to pale yellow, red, or green mineral of the feldspar group, found in igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic rocks. It is used in the manufacture of glass and ceramics. Composition: potassium aluminium silicate. Formula: KAlSi3O8. or路tho路clase. A type of feldspar consisting of potassium aluminum silicate. Orthoclase is typically white, pink, yellow, or brown, but it can also be colorless. It is especially common in igneous rocks.
Orthoclase Gemstone Information. About Orthoclase-History and Introduction. Orthoclase is a rare gemstone that belongs to the feldspar group, which also includes moonstone, amazonite, spectrolite and labradorite. Therefore, orthoclase is sometimes also called K-spar. Orthoclase gemstones are typically champagne yellow, golden yellow or greenish, though they can be other colours. The name, orthoclase is a Greek word meaning straight fracture, which refers to the cleavage planes of orthoclase being at right angles to each other. Orthoclase is faceted into attractive gemstones and also has an industrial use as a scouring agent in the making of some glasses and ceramics.
Noun. 1. orthoclase-a white or colored monoclinic feldspar. feldspar, felspar-any of a group of hard crystalline minerals that consist of aluminum silicates of potassium or sodium or calcium or barium. or路tho路clase. A type of feldspar consisting of potassium aluminum silicate. Orthoclase is typically white, pink, yellow, or brown, but it can also be colorless. It is especially common in igneous rocks.