Interpreters convert information from one spoken language into another—or, in the case of sign language interpreters, between spoken language and sign language. The goal of an interpreter is to have people hear the interpretation as if it were the original.
An ASL, or American Sign Language, interpreter uses hand motions to translate the English language into American Sign Language. ASL interpreters are needed to interpret communication from individuals who are deaf to individuals who are able to hear the English language, and vice versa.
Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a sign language interpreter. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about degree programs, job duties and certification to find out if this is the career for you.
With many years of experience and a college degree, a sign language interpreter may earn as much as $35,000 to $45,000 a year. 1 Another example that this is an accurate pay scale is a source from El Camino College. They pay their experienced sign language interpreters $36,000 to $44,000 a year (2).
Interpreting students learn how to help Deaf and hearing people communicate with each other so that Deaf people can participate fully in society. If you major in sign language interpretation, you’ll prepare for work as an interpreter of American Sign Language (ASL). There's a shortage of qualified interpreters for the Deaf.
A bachelor's degree in interpreting is normally required to become an ASL interpreter and to take the certification exam administered by the Registry of Interpreters for the Deaf. RID also provides an alternative pathway for certification.
You can then begin the degree program, which will take two years for an associate degree or four years for a bachelor's degree. The Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that many employers desire a bachelor's degree for ASL interpreters, but the degree does not necessarily have to be in American Sign Language.
The first step in becoming an ASL interpreter is learning to sign. Some students study ASL during the first two years of a four-year degree program. Others learn to sign by taking courses at community colleges.