It is caused by a DNA poxvirus called the molluscum contagiosum virus (MCV). MCV has no nonhuman-animal reservoir (infecting primarily humans, though equids can rarely be infected). Four types of MCV are known, MCV-1 to -4; MCV-1 is the most prevalent and MCV-2 is seen usually in adults. The virus that causes molluscum is spread from person to person by touching the affected skin. The virus may also be spread by touching a surface with the virus on it, such as a towel, clothing, or toys. This common viral disease has a higher incidence in children, sexually active adults, and those who are immunodeficient, and the infection is most common in children aged one to 11 years old. MC can affect any area of the skin, but is most common on the trunk of the body, arms, groin, and legs
S. Shingles – This is a skin rash caused by the varicella zoster virus. In children, this virus causes chickenpox. Symptoms of shingles include skin pain and burning and a rash. Smallpox – The variola virus causes smallpox. M. Measles – The measles virus is the cause of the disease measles. The virus only infects humans and is spread through respiratory secretions. Complications may occur and can include pneumonia, encephalitis, and even death. Mumps – The mumps virus causes the disease mumps in people.
Symptoms of the illness may be mild, such as muscle aches, fever, or headache, or they may become severe, such as meningoencephalitis or meningitis. V. Varicella Zoster Virus – This is the virus that causes chickenpox in children and causes shingles in adults. M. Measles – The measles virus is the cause of the disease measles. The virus only infects humans and is spread through respiratory secretions. Complications may occur and can include pneumonia, encephalitis, and even death. Mumps – The mumps virus causes the disease mumps in people.
Symptoms of the New Virus. The most common symptoms of human metapneumovirus infection in children are similar to other respiratory infections -- cough, fever, irritability, and runny nose. There is no known treatment for human metapneumovirus.
RSV stands for respiratory syncytial virus, and it's the top cause of bronchiolitis (inflammation of the small airways) and pneumonia in U.S. infants. The infection begins with flu-like symptoms, including a fever, runny nose, and cough. Tearing, redness, itching, and crusty eyelashes are all signs of conjunctivitis, commonly called pinkeye. Often caused by the same viruses as the common cold, pinkeye spreads rapidly in schools and day care centers. Consult your pediatrician to determine whether your child needs treatment.
Overview. Viral infections are the most common cause of illness in children. They are highly contagious. Most viruses cause symptoms over a short period of time and produce mild illness. Some viruses can cause significant disease, especially in those who have chronic or debilitating conditions. The most common viral causes of meningo-encephalitis are enteroviruses, arboviruses (the most recognized arbovirus is the West Nile virus), and the herpes virus. Herpes can cause a devastating disease, usually presenting with seizures. In newborns, it can lead to permanent brain damage.
In fact, over 200 different varieties of viruses can cause the symptoms of a cold. The most common viruses that cause colds are called rhinoviruses. Other virus types include coronavirus, parainfluenza, adenovirus, enterovirus, and respiratory syncytial virus. An upper respiratory infection (URI), also known as the common cold, is one of the most common illnesses, leading to more health care provider visits and absences from school and work than any other illness every year. It is estimated that during a 1-year period, people in the U.S. will suffer 1 billion colds.
Other than using acetaminophen or ibuprofen to treat a child's fever, medications are usually not recommended for treating viral stomach flu (antibiotics may help treat bacteria-triggered cases, but these are much less common in babies and young children). Officially called gastroenteritis, stomach flu is an infection of the digestive system -- and is totally unrelated to the regular flu (influenza), which affects the respiratory system. Stomach flu is the second most common illness kids get, after respiratory infections like colds.
Viral infections are common among people of all ages but often seem to be concentrated in infants and children. Most childhood viral infections are not serious and include such diverse illnesses as colds with a sore throat, vomiting and diarrhea, and fever with a rash. Several types of viral infections that children can acquire are discussed in the chapter on adult viral infections (see Overview of Viral Infections). Most children with viral infections get better without treatment, and many viral infections are so distinctive that a doctor can diagnose them based on their symptoms.