The leopard gecko (Eublepharis macularius) is native to the arid regions of Pakistan and India. Male leopard geckos reach a size of 10 to 12 inches long, and female leopard geckos can measure from 7 to 10 inches long. Leopard geckos are known to live more than 20 years. 
Leopard geckos will generally live for 10-20 years in captivity if cared for properly. The eldest recorded leopard gecko was Dink who died at 27 years of age. It depands on the leopard gecko usally 1 or 2 weeks.
Know when to put your gecko back in its tank. Geckos need warmth to keep their energy levels up. When they are climbing or running around in an area that is not as warm as their tank, they can become fatigued. A good rule of thumb is to check your leo’s belly after you have been playing with them for 10 minutes. If its belly is cold to the touch, place your gecko back in its tank so that it can warm back up.
How long does it take until a Gecko gets used to you? I bought a male leopard gecko 2 days ago and she is just staying in the log i put in her vivarium. 
Leopard Gecko. Leopard geckos are one of the easiest lizards to keep, making them ideal pets for anybody new to reptile care. Popular for their beautiful mottled skin and docile nature, they don't need as much space as many other lizards and can live for 20 years or more. Find out more. 
A single Leopard gecko can be housed in a ten gallon tank, two or more should have more room. Obviously a ten gallon tank is the minimum and your Leo won't complain about extra room. Typically, a group of three Leos will be comfortable in a 20 gallon-long tank. The tank needs a hide box for the gecko to sleep in. 
Leopard Gecko Life Span. Leopard geckos are long-lived compared to some reptiles. On average you can expect your gecko to live six to 10 years, but many males live 10 to 20 years. At least one male is still breeding at 27½ years of age. A 10- to 20-gallon aquarium houses one or two leopard geckos from hatchling to adult size. Larger tanks tend to cause the geckos to stray away from their proper heat and hide box. Although visibility is reduced, many people use plastic storage boxes as housing. Any cage you choose should be at least 1 foot tall.
How long does it take for a leopard gecko to shed? if it was just hatched then probably 2 or 3 months. after that it will shed about 1 time a month. You may not know it sheded the night before because a lot of leo's will eat t … heir shedding. It depands on the leopard gecko usally 1 or 2 weeks.
1. Get the right environment. A Leopard gecko does great in 10–15 gallon (37.9–56.8 L) tanks pretty much all of their life. Although they are desert geckos, it is recommended that Leopard geckos have paper towels as substrate until they reach an age of two years old, after that you may use a tile substrate. 5. Feed your leopard gecko. Leopard geckos should be fed crickets and meal worms as a staple diet. For newborns, feed only two to five meal worms everyday for about two months of age, then introduce a serving of two to three crickets plus two to three meal worms, add an extra cricket and meal worm as the gecko ages.