Occupational therapy (OT) is the use of assessment and treatment to develop, recover, or maintain the daily living and work skills of people with a physical, mental, or cognitive disorder. Although only a small percentage of occupational therapists continue to work in the field of mental health, many universities place a strong emphasis on training students in psycho-social occupational therapy.
Do... Occupational Impact is a private practice managed by Vicki Strelan from her base in Townsville. With more than two decades of experience in occupational therapy, Vicki offers experienced consultancy to the general public, employers, insurers and health providers. Find our more about Vicki ».
1. Helping you overcome your disability. An occupational therapist may help you overcome your disability by: A. Educating or instructing you on how to do things with the abilities you have. Some examples: 1  how to remember things when your memory is poor. 2  how to dress or cook using one arm. 3  how to manage your time and money. 
In the years following the 2010 passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA), I’ve been studying up on how the new law will change the face of health care in the United States—particularly, how it will affect occupational therapy. 
Results: Only two occupational therapy journals (American Journal of Occupational Therapy and Occupational Therapy Journal of Research) are currently listed on the Institute for Scientific Information data and therefore have impact factors calculated for them. Purpose: The purpose of this paper is to compare the impact factors of occupational therapy journals with other journals in physiotherapy, speech therapy, rehabilitation, and special education.
The Arts and Crafts movement that flourished between 1860 and 1910 also impacted occupational therapy. In a recently industrialized society, the arts and crafts societies emerged against the monotony and lost autonomy of factory work. Although only a small percentage of occupational therapists continue to work in the field of mental health, many universities place a strong emphasis on training students in psycho-social occupational therapy.
OT can address these issues. For example, an OT can evaluate these components and provide ways to improve safety to eliminate risk of injuries. The Affordable Care Act will cover services in the essential health benefits categories. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act was signed into law on March 23, 2010. This presentation will describe what the law is and how it impacts occupational therapy.
Occupational therapists also focus much of their work on identifying and eliminating environmental barriers to independence and participation in daily activities. Occupational therapy is a client-centered practice that places emphasis on the progress towards the client's goals. Although only a small percentage of occupational therapists continue to work in the field of mental health, many universities place a strong emphasis on training students in psycho-social occupational therapy.
Occupational therapy is a health care profession aimed at improving performance, preventing illness and disability and promoting adaptation to life changes. Occupational Science and Occupational Therapy. Human life comprises hundreds of daily activities that occupy our waking hours. These activities—defined as “occupations”—have a profound impact on how we feel physically, emotionally, socially and even spiritually.