Chartered Secretaries Southern Africa is the formal professional Institute for the enabling of corporate governance and company secretaryship as well as the expert commentator and thought leader in Southern Africa on governance matters. 
£35,000 + per year. As a company secretary or chartered secretary, it would be your job to make sure that your company and its directors follow company law and financial regulations. If you have an organised approach to work, and would like a job dealing with business law and finance, this job could suit you. To be the secretary of a public limited company, you must qualify with the ICSA, or be an accountant, solicitor or barrister. Taking ICSA examinations may also improve your chances of finding employment if you wish to become a company secretary of a private limited company.
For more information on how you can become a chartered secretary visit www.icsa.org.uk. Use Hays' job search engine to find chartered secretary jobs. Speak to a recruitment expert at your local Hays Company Secretarial office. Qualifying as a Chartered Secretary opens up a wealth of career opportunities – across sectors, internationally, within organisations and in practice. Chartered Secretaries work in a number of different careers and across a variety of sectors including corporate, not-for-profit and charity.
To become a full Member of ICSA and a Chartered Secretary you also need to demonstrate a certain level of professional experience. Many students study while they work and are able to gain their professional experience at the same time as studying. Qualifying as a Chartered Secretary opens up a wealth of career opportunities – across sectors, internationally, within organisations and in practice. Chartered Secretaries work in a number of different careers and across a variety of sectors including corporate, not-for-profit and charity.
The Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators (ICSA) is a professional body that certifies company secretaries through examination and post qualifications programmes. 
Welcome to the Chartered Secretaries Qualification. The Chartered Secretaries qualification is an international qualification which is currently recognised in more than 70 countries. Chartered Secretaries Southern Africa is a division of ICSA which is the global Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators. The qualifications in Southern Africa are provided at 4 levels, each of which enables students to be employable at any stage during their stud
Chartered Secretaries Qualifying Scheme (CSQS). BPP is proud to have accredited status with the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators (ICSA) – the international qualifying and Membership body for the Chartered Secretary profession and the world's leading authority on governance and compliance. In professional practice, the Chartered Secretary has to be competent in financial accounting and reporting. In public practice and in some other organisations, the Chartered Secretary may also be called upon to fulfil the role of corporate accountant.
Chartered Secretaries are high-ranking professionals with a broad base of skills unique among the professions. Trained in corporate law, finance, governance, company secretaryship and management, Chartered Secretaries are the focal point for independent advice about the conduct of business, governance and compliance. Qualifying as a Chartered Secretary opens up a wealth of career opportunities – across sectors, internationally, within organisations and in practice. Chartered Secretaries work in a number of different careers and across a variety of sectors including corporate, not-for-profit and charity.
The first stage to becoming a Chartered Secretary is to study the qualifying scheme and pass the relevant exams. Once you have successfully completed the exams and paid your graduate fee you will be given the grade Graduate and designated the title GradICSA, which you can use after your name. Qualifying as a Chartered Secretary opens up a wealth of career opportunities – across sectors, internationally, within organisations and in practice. Chartered Secretaries work in a number of different careers and across a variety of sectors including corporate, not-for-profit and charity.