Some people have allergies or sensitivities to foods which are not problematic to most people. This occurs when a person's immune system mistakes a certain food protein for a harmful foreign agent and attacks it. About 2% of adults and 8% of children have a food allergy. In fact, the majority of food consumed by human beings are seed-based foods. Edible seeds include cereals (corn, wheat, rice, et cetera), legumes (beans, peas, lentils, et cetera), and nuts. Oilseeds are often pressed to produce rich oils-sunflower, flaxseed, rapeseed (including canola oil), sesame, et cetera.
Some foods not from animal or plant sources include various edible fungi, especially mushrooms. Fungi and ambient bacteria are used in the preparation of fermented and pickled foods like leavened bread, alcoholic drinks, cheese, pickles, kombucha, and yogurt. Another example is blue-green algae such as Spirulina. In fact, the majority of food consumed by human beings are seed-based foods. Edible seeds include cereals (corn, wheat, rice, et cetera), legumes (beans, peas, lentils, et cetera), and nuts. Oilseeds are often pressed to produce rich oils-sunflower, flaxseed, rapeseed (including canola oil), sesame, et cetera.
Seeds of plants are a good source of food for animals, including humans, because they contain the nutrients necessary for the plant's initial growth, including many healthful fats, such as Omega fats. In fact, the majority of food consumed by human beings are seed-based foods. Edible seeds include cereals (corn, wheat, rice, et cetera), legumes (beans, peas, lentils, et cetera), and nuts. Oilseeds are often pressed to produce rich oils-sunflower, flaxseed, rapeseed (including canola oil), sesame, et cetera.
You used food like a countable noun(foods)...but in the dictionary food appears like an unncontable noun. Chris K said: ↑. Food is a singular, so it has to be followed by is.. To use are you need the plural. My favourite food is...../are....? Discussion in ' Spanish-English Grammar / Gramatica Gramática-Espanol ' español ingles inglés, Started by, myrys. feb 9 2012
Food is any substance consumed to provide nutritional support for the body. It is usually of plant or animal origin, and contains essential nutrients, such as fats, proteins, vitamins, or minerals. In fact, the majority of food consumed by human beings are seed-based foods. Edible seeds include cereals (corn, wheat, rice, et cetera), legumes (beans, peas, lentils, et cetera), and nuts. Oilseeds are often pressed to produce rich oils-sunflower, flaxseed, rapeseed (including canola oil), sesame, et cetera.
Uncountable nouns are always singular. Use the singular form of the verb with uncountable nouns: There is some water in that pitcher.That is the equipment we use for the project._________________con text-The part of a text or statement that surrounds a particular word or passage and determines its meaning. #4 (permalink) Wed Apr 08, 2009 14:08 pm Is the word food singular or plural? Food is an uncountable noun.Uncountable nouns are materials, concepts, information, etc. which are not individual objects and can not be counted. information, water, understanding, wood, cheese, etc.
Yes-for no logical reason, you would buy food for the family from a food shop (food store) and you would buy feed for the animals from a feed store. (Though one dictionary says FEED-Food, especially for animals or babies !). He tested many types/kinds of food.Or, He tested many (of the) dishes. Then, there is foodstuff. This is anything that can be made into food. A great many people will think they are thinking when they are merely rearranging their prejudices.
Cheese is a food made from milk. Italy is the source of many delicious foods -- pizza, pasta, salami, biscotti.... Food in its commonest sense is a non-countable noun, with all the effects of that. It's already a plural. You would eat some food not a food. You would say less food not fewer foods. However, there is a less common usage where a food means a type of food: Cheese is a food made from milk. ... and in this form, you can pluralise it ...
my favorite food is Explanation: You would only use are if you were to say, my favorite foods are. Your favorite food is salad, or your favorite food is salads. Stephanie EzrolUnited StatesLocal time: 04:04Works in fieldNative speaker of: EnglishPRO pts in category: 150. my favorite food is. 
Food is singular or plural .And also is foods a correct word to be used.In the following sentence is the usage of the word foods correct here because food is refered as it in the next part of sentence. #4 (permalink) Wed Apr 08, 2009 14:08 pm Is the word food singular or plural? Food is an uncountable noun.Uncountable nouns are materials, concepts, information, etc. which are not individual objects and can not be counted. information, water, understanding, wood, cheese, etc.