Neuronal intestinal dysplasia, type A: Neuronal intestinal dysplasia, type A is listed as a type of (or associated with) the following medical conditions in our database: 1  Intestine conditions. 2  Abdominal conditions. Neuronal intestinal dysplasia, type A: Related Diseases. Neuronal intestinal dysplasia, type A: Neuronal intestinal dysplasia, type A is listed as a type of (or associated with) the following medical conditions in our database: 1  Intestine conditions. 2  Abdominal conditions. 3  Digestive conditions.
Abstract. Purpose: Intestinal neuronal dysplasia (IND) is a disease of the enteric nervous system, which clinically resembles Hirschsprung's disease. The authors reviewed their experience of IND over an 8-year period. Methods: Between 1992 and 1999, 418 patients underwent rectal suction biopsy for persistent constipation. Twenty-nine of the 33 patients with IND were diagnosed purely on rectal suction biopsy findings; 4 children required an additional full-thickness biopsy to make the diagnosis. There were 26 male and 7 female patients. Their ages on presentation ranged from 1 day to 10 years.
Neuronal intestinal dysplasia. Rintala R(1), Rapola J, Louhimo I. Author information: (1)Children's Hospital, University of Helsinki, Finland. A series of 21 patients with NID is presented. A histologic and histochemical picture of NID was seen in an heterogenous group of patients. NID was associated with bowel obstruction and/or perforation in six neonates and infants. One neonate died. During follow-up the bowel histology gradually normalized in four of the five patients.
neuronal intestinal dysplasia. A disorder of bowel motility in which the innervation of the intestines is ectopic (the ganglions that provide nervous control of intestinal musculature being misplaced). See also: dysplasia. 
Neuronal intestinal dysplasia: an entity of chronic intestinal pseudobstruction 97 segment in Hirschsprung’s disease. Z kinderchir 1973;12:236.11. MacMahon RA, Moore CCM, Cussen LJ. Hirschsprung-like syndromes in patients with normal ganglion cells onsuction rectal biopsy. J Pediatr Surg 1981; 16:835.12. Current views Neuronal intestinal dysplasia: an entity of chronic intestinalpseudo-obstruction V.A. Komborozos, G.J. Skrekas ANNALS OF GASTROENTEROLOGY 2000, 13(2):95-972nd Department of Surgery, Evangelismos.
Intestinal neuronal dysplasia (IND) is a disorder of the enteric nervous system that was first described by Meier-Ruge in 1971. IND may be associated with Hirschsprung's disease or may occur as an isolated disorder. The incidence of isolated IND varies from 0.3% to 40% of suction rectal biopsies. The uncertainty regarding the incidence of IND has resulted from considerable confusion concerning essential diagnostic criteria.
Neuronal intestinal dysplasia, type A as a Disease. Neuronal intestinal dysplasia, type A: Another name for Intestinal pseudoobstruction chronic idiopathic (or close medical condition association). Neuronal intestinal dysplasia, type A: Related Diseases. Neuronal intestinal dysplasia, type A: Neuronal intestinal dysplasia, type A is listed as a type of (or associated with) the following medical conditions in our database: 1  Intestine conditions. 2  Abdominal conditions. 3  Digestive conditions.
Intestinal neuronal dysplasia (IND) is a histologic entity that affects mainly the colon and is frequently associated with aganglionosis. Most publications related to IND have appeared in European journals. 
Neuronal intestinal dysplasia, type A is listed as a  rare disease  by the Office of Rare Diseases (ORD) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). This means that Neuronal intestinal dysplasia, type A, or a subtype of Neuronal intestinal dysplasia, type A, affects less than 200,000 people in the US population. Neuronal intestinal dysplasia, type A: Related Diseases. Neuronal intestinal dysplasia, type A: Neuronal intestinal dysplasia, type A is listed as a type of (or associated with) the following medical conditions in our database: 1  Intestine conditions. 2  Abdominal conditions. 3  Digestive conditions.