Cytokinesis follows, dividing the cytoplasm of the two cells. At the conclusion of meiosis, there are four haploid daughter cells that go on to develop into either sperm or egg cells. Meiosis is a type of cell division that reduces the number of chromosomes in the parent cell by half and produces four gamete cells. This process is required to produce egg and sperm cells for sexual reproduction. 
Haploid cells are a result of the process of meiosis, a type of reductional cell division in which diploid cells divide to give rise to haploid germ cells or spores. During meiosis, a diploid germ cell divides to give rise to four haploid cells in two rounds of cell division. Diploid cells contain two complete sets (2n) of chromosomes. Haploid cells have half the number of chromosomes (n) as diploid-i.e. a haploid cell contains only one complete set of chromosomes. Cell Division and Growth. Diploid cells reproduce by mitosis making daughter cells that are exact replicas
Haploid refers to a cell that has has only one copy of each chromosome, like in a gamete such as a sperm cell or egg cell. Upon fertilization, the two haploids come together t … o form a full diploid cell (two copies of each chromosome) which then goes on to form the complete organism. A diploid cell is a cell that has two of each type of chromosome. A haploid … cell is found in bacteria, archaea, many algae, and most eukaryotic gametes.
Haploid cells are cells that contain only one complete set of chromosomes. The most common type of haploid cells is gametes, or sex cells. Haploid cells are produced by meiosis. They are genetically diverse cells that are used in sexual reproduction. In humans, the haploid cells have 23 chromosomes, versus the 46 in the diploid cells. There is a difference between haploid and monoploid cells. Haploid cells have one complete set of chromosomes, whereas the term monoploid refers to the number of unique chromosomes in a biological cell.
In humans, n = 23. Gametes contain half the chromosomes contained in normal diploid cells of the body, which are also known as somatic cells. Haploid gametes are produced during meiosis, which is a type of cell division that reduces the number of chromosomes in a parent diploid cell by half. Some organisms, like algae, have haploid portions of their life cycle. In humans, gametes are haploid cells that contain 23 chromosomes, each of which a one of a chromosome pair that exists in diplod cells. The number of chromosomes in a single set is represented as n, which is also called the haploid number.
Meiosis is a special type of nuclear division which segregates one copy of each homologous chromosome into each new gamete. Mitosis maintains the cell's original ploidy level (for example, one diploid 2n cell producing two diploid 2n cells; one haploid n cell producing two haploid n cells; etc.). 
The gametes (sperm and unfertilized egg, or ovum). In humans, body cells are diploid. To form gametes, specialized cells in the gonads (primary spermatocytes in males, and primary oocytes in females) must go through meiosis. Strictly, there are more than two types of cell that are haploid. The cells formed by meiosis I are haploid, and these are (in males) secondary spermatocytes, and (in females) secondary oocytes. These divide (meiosis II) to form more haploid cells that differentiate into the gamete
Haploid describes a cell that contains a single set of chromosomes. The term haploid can also refer to the number of chromosomes in egg or sperm cells, which are also called gametes. In humans, gametes are haploid cells that contain 23 chromosomes, each of which a one of a chromosome pair that exists in diplod cells. The number of chromosomes in a single set is represented as n, which is also called the haploid number.
There are two types of cells in the body-haploid cells and diploid cells. The difference between haploid and diploid cells is related to the number of chromosomes that the cell contains. Diploid cells contain two complete sets (2n) of chromosomes. Haploid cells have half the number of chromosomes (n) as diploid-i.e. a haploid cell contains only one complete set of chromosomes. Cell Division and Growth. Diploid cells reproduce by mitosis making daughter cells that are exact replica