We refer to this document as a voluntary code of practice – or simply the Code. Whereas a mandatory set of rules runs the risk of inviting dispute and division – it is hoped that this voluntary code can provide the basis for a self regulating community. By setting this 'benchmark', we hope to deter bogus imitators. 
These are my opinions. A voluntary code, codes of practice, codes of conduct, can be defined as: - a set of voluntary commitments-agreed to by one or more parties-designed to influence or control behaviour-to be applied in a consistent manner. 
The care tags on clothing, for example, are part of a familiar standard adopted voluntarily by the garment industry. Voluntary codes go by several names, including codes of conduct, codes of practice, voluntary initiatives, guidelines and non-regulatory agreements. 1 While codes are voluntary (they are not legislatively required commitments), they operate within a legal environment that includes consumer, competition, health and safety, labour and environmental legislation and regulations, and contract and tort (personal injuries) law. 2  Sometimes codes supplement legislation.
voluntary. adj. 1. performed, undertaken, or brought about by free choice, willingly, or without being asked: a voluntary donation. 2. (of persons) serving or acting in a specified function of one's own accord and without compulsion or promise of remuneration: a voluntary social worker. 1. Done or undertaken of one's own free will: a voluntary decision to leave the job. 2. Acting or done willingly and without constraint or expectation of reward: a voluntary hostage; voluntary community work. 3.
They can also serve as a sign to consumers that the organization's product, service or activity meets certain standards. Voluntary codes exist for a range of industries, products and services, and address many aspects of marketplace behaviour. 1 While codes are voluntary (they are not legislatively required commitments), they operate within a legal environment that includes consumer, competition, health and safety, labour and environmental legislation and regulations, and contract and tort (personal injuries) law. 2  Sometimes codes supplement legislation.
Core business practices, as the term suggests, are the day-to-day or regular activities or policies of a company that fundamentally guide the company as a whole. An example of a core business practice might be a thorough quality check by at least two separate employees before any shipment leaves the factory. 
Voluntary codes are codes of practice and other arrangements that influence, shape, control or set benchmarks for behaviour in the marketplace. They encourage companies and organizations to conduct themselves in ways that benefit both themselves and the community. 1 While codes are voluntary (they are not legislatively required commitments), they operate within a legal environment that includes consumer, competition, health and safety, labour and environmental legislation and regulations, and contract and tort (personal injuries) law. 2  Sometimes codes supplement legislation.
Voluntary Benefits. Employers often provide benefits that are not required by law, which are referred to as voluntary benefits. Let's look at some voluntary benefits that Michael is provided: 1  Michael gets paid time off, sick leave, and vacation time. 2  In other words, he gets paid even if he's not working. 
Simple living encompasses a number of different voluntary practices to simplify one's lifestyle. These may include reducing one's possessions, generally referred to as Minimalism, or increasing self-sufficiency, for example. 
Synonym Discussion of VOLUNTARY. voluntary, intentional, and deliberate mean done or brought about by choice. voluntary is used of an act that results from freedom of will. It can also be used of an act that is controlled by the will. intentional is used of something that is done for a reason and only after some thought. deliberate is used of an act that is done purposefully and with full understanding of the likely results. : done or given because you want to and not because you are forced to: done or given by choice. : provided or supported by people who do work without being paid. : doing