Bacteria causes many diseases such as whooping cough, diarrhoea, typhoid fever, bacterial pneumonia and many more! :). When bacteria in the body and cause disease, hence this phenomenon is called infection. Diseases caused depending on the type and place of occurrence of bacterial infections. An example is typhoid, caused by the bacterium Salmonella thypi. Other bacteria is tuberculosis bacterium, which attacks the lungs causing TB disease, and if spread to the brain, can cause meningitis. In general bacteria that cause disease are called pathogenic bacteria. The ones that do not cause disease are often referred to as healthy bacteria or good bacteria See Re … lated Links for a good discussion on types of bacteria.
Tuberculosis is an infectious disease. The bacteria that cause tuberculosis are called mycobacterium tuberculosis. People with TB or tuberculosis cough excessively and suffer a terrible pain in the chest. They cough up blood and display excessive weight loss, fatigue, loss of appetite, and persistent fever. The disease spreads by inhaling the bacteria or through contact with a person suffering from the disease. Legionella also cause a flu-like illness called Pontiac fever. Yaws disease is a relatively lesser known disease caused by the bacteria Treponema pertenue.
Conversely, a number of diseases that impact humans are caused by bacteria. Bacteria that cause disease are called pathogenic bacteria, and they do so by producing poisonous substances called endotoxins and exotoxins. These substances are responsible for the symptoms that occur with bacteria related diseases. The symptoms may range from mild to serious, and some can be deadly. Cholera is an intestinal infection caused by the bacteria Vibrio cholerae. Cholera is a food-borne disease typically spread by food and water contaminated with Vibrio cholerae. Around the world, approximately 3 to 5 million cases per year with approximately 100,000 plus deaths occur.
The bacterium legionella causes Legionnaires' disease, a lung infection which is a severe form of pneumonia. The disease spreads by inhaling the bacteria or through contact with a person suffering from the disease. Legionella also cause a flu-like illness called Pontiac fever. Yaws disease is a relatively lesser known disease caused by the bacteria Treponema pertenue. It affects the skin, bones, and cartilage, and spreads through skin contact
Bacterial diseases: Introduction. Bacterial diseases include any type of illness or disease caused by bacteria, a type of microbe. Microbes are tiny organisms that cannot be seen without a microscope and include viruses, fungi, and some parasites as well as bacteria
Staphylococcus aureus causes a variety of infections in the body, including boils, cellulitis, abscesses, wound infections, toxic shock syndrome, pneumonia, and food poisoning. Streptococcal bacteria cause a variety of infections in the body, including pneumonia, meningitis, ear infections, and strep throat. Harmful bacteria may also emit toxins that damage the body. Common pathogenic bacteria and the types of bacterial diseases they cause include: Escherichia coli and Salmonella cause food poisoning. Helicobacter pylori cause gastritis and ulcers. Neisseria gonorrhoeae causes the sexually transmitted disease gonorrhea. Neisseria meningitidis causes meningitis
Although most bacteria are harmless or often beneficial, several are pathogenic. One of the bacterial diseases with the highest disease burden is tuberculosis, caused by the bacterium Mycobacterium tuberculosis, which kills about 2 million people a year, mostly in sub-Saharan Africa. Pathogenic bacteria contribute to other globally important diseases, such as pneumonia, which can be caused by bacteria such as Streptococcus and Pseudomonas, and foodborne illnesses, which can be caused by bacteria such as Shigella, Campylobacter, and Salmonella.
Bubonic Plague. Bubonic plague is another life-threatening disease caused by bacteria. The bacteria that cause the plague are the yersinia pestis variety. The different kinds of bubonic plague include the common form that spreads through certain rats and fleas. The disease spreads by inhaling the bacteria or through contact with a person suffering from the disease. Legionella also cause a flu-like illness called Pontiac fever. Yaws disease is a relatively lesser known disease caused by the bacteria Treponema pertenue.