D. Other mammals commonly found in research are guinea pigs, rabbits, hamsters, and farm animals such as pigs and sheep. Most of these animals are specifically bred and raised for research. Researchers choose the species that best parallels the biology of what they want to study. Species such as dogs, cats, and non-human primates account for less than 1% of all mammals in research. Although not used widely, these animals have characteristics that make them vitally important for the study of heart disease, neurological disorders, and diseases such as HIV/AIDS.
While most animals are purposely bred for research, others, like cats and dogs, may be acquired through different sources, such as auctions, advertisements, or from pounds and shelters (known as “pound seizure”). Of the many species used in biomedical research, specific animals are preferred in certain areas.ats, birds, amphibians, and fish are also used, and invertebrates such as fruit flies and worms are heavily used in genetic research. “Historically, animal use in research was synonymous with bas
In 2009, over 222,000 rabbits were used in research, more than any other species covered under the Animal Welfare Act (AWA), followed next by guinea pigs and hamsters, who are both used a great deal in toxicity testing and as models for infectious, cardiovascular, and neurological diseases, and drug abuse research.ats, birds, amphibians, and fish are also used, and invertebrates such as fruit flies and worms are heavily used in genetic research. “Historically, animal use in research was synonymous with bas
The use of animals in medical research is not the only resource available: computers, molecular models, in-vitro tissue cultures, epidemiology, and other processes are all part of the quest for treatments and cures. The use of animals is but one link in the research chain, but it is a vital link.8.
Types of animals. British law protects vertebrate animals such as mammals, fish and birds and these are the animals which are counted by government every year. Most research animals are rodents, followed by fish and birds. Dogs, cats and monkeys together represent two in every 1000 animals used in UK research. Invertebrate animals such as fruit flies and worms are used in large numbers in research but are not protected by the law or counted. Numbers relate to procedures on animals in Great Britain in 2013: 1  Rats, mice and other rodents, all purpose-bred laboratory species 84.5%. 2  Fish, amphibians, reptiles and birds 16.3%
Specially bred rats and mice are the mammals used most often in medical research. Because rats and mice have so many biological similarities to humans, they make up 90–95% of the mammals in biomedical research. Species such as dogs, cats, and non-human primates account for less than 1% of all mammals in research. Although not used widely, these animals have characteristics that make them vitally important for the study of heart disease, neurological disorders, and diseases such as HIV/AIDS.
The research is usually conducted in universities, medical schools, pharmaceutical companies, defense establishments, and commercial facilities that provide animal-testing services to industry.he Three Rs are guiding principles for the use of animals in research in most countries. Whilst replacement of animals, i.e. alternatives to animal testing, is one of the principles, their scope is much broader.
The majority of research animals are used in experiments focused on disease treatment and prevention, and the treatment of injuries. Laboratory animals are also used in basic medical research, breeding other research animals and diagnosis. Rats and mice account for about 95 percent of all animals used in research. Most of the remaining research animals are rabbits, guinea pigs, hamsters, farm animals, fish and insects. Combined, less than one percent of the remaining research animals are cats, dogs and non-human primates.