The CIM system, which is sometimes referred to as the integrated computer aided manufacturing system, operates on both hard and software. Simply put, the software is what runs the factory, or the brains. The hardware is what makes the machines run, or the muscles. The CIM system runs on an efficient output process. CAD, or computer aided design, has been able to aid the operators in the formulation and blueprints of more sophisticated products and technology. CAM, or computer aided manufacturing, has offered the means by which to produce the more sophisticated items. CAM also enhances the productivity of the factory's output. Together the CAD and CAM systems reduce cycle times, enhance productivity, and aid in the streamlining of the overall production
Computer-integrated manufacturing (CIM) is the manufacturing approach of using computers to control the entire production process. Computer-integrated manufacturing is used in automotive, aviation, space, and ship building industries.
Computer-integrated manufacturing. A system in which individual engineering, production, and marketing and support functions of a manufacturing enterprise are organized into a computer-integrated system. Computer-integrated manufacturing is also known as integrated computer-aided manufacturing (ICAM). Autofacturing includes computer-integrated manufacturing, but also includes conventional machinery, human operators, and their relationships within a total system.
Photo by: Andrea Danti. Computer-integrated manufacturing (CIM) is the use of computer techniques to integrate manufacturing activities. These activities encompass all functions necessary to translate customer needs into a final product. Computer-integrated manufacturing can be applied to nonmanufacturing organizations by changing the manufacturing focus toward a service orientation. CIM and Job Definition Format (JDF) are becoming increasingly beneficial to printing companies to streamline their production process.
Computer integrated manufacturing was used to optimize our processes to ensure that we were operating as efficiently and cost effective as possible. 7 people found this helpful. Combination of separate applications, such as computer aided design (CAD) , computer aided engineering (CAE) , computer aided manufacturing (CAM) , robotics, and manufacturing resource planning (MRP-II) .
The heart of computer integrated manufacturing is CAD/CAM. Computer-aided design(CAD) and computer-aided manufacturing(CAM) systems are essential to reducing cycle times in the organization. CAD/CAM is a high technology integrating tool between design and manufacturing. CAD techniques make use of group technology to create similar geometries for quick retrieval. Electronic files replace drawing rooms. CAD/CAM integrated systems provide design/drafting, planning and scheduling, and fabrication capabilities. Computer integrated manufacturing can include different combinations of the tools listed above. The Issues. One of the key issues regarding CIM is equipment incompatibility and difficulty of integration of protocols.
The term computer-integrated manufacturing is both a method of manufacturing and the name of a computer-automated system in which individual engineering, production, marketing, and support functions of a manufacturing enterprise are organized. Computer-integrated manufacturing is used in automotive, aviation, space, and ship building industries.
A computer-integrated manufacturing system is not the same as a lights-out factory , which would run completely independent of human intervention, although it is a big step in that direction. Computer-integrated manufacturing is used in automotive, aviation, space, and ship building industries.
CIM & production control system: Computer Integrated Manufacturing is used to describe the complete automation of a manufacturing plant, with all processes running under computer control and digital information tying them together. Computer-integrated manufacturing is used in automotive, aviation, space, and ship building industries.