After Jupiter, the next largest planet is Saturn. Saturn is extremely large, in fact Jupiter is only about 15% bigger than Saturn. However, the mass of Saturn is extremely smaller than Jupiter's. Jupiter has a mass of over 3 times the size of Saturn. There are 8 planets in our solar system. These planets are: Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus & Neptune. Pluto was the 9th planets, but a few years ago it was classified as a dwarf planet.
The smallest planet in regards to both mass and volume is Mercury—this tiny world is nearly 20 times less massive than Earth, and its diameter is about times 2 ½ smaller. In fact, Mercury is closer in size to our Moon than to Earth. The largest planet in our solar system by far is Jupiter, which beats out all the other planets in both mass and volume. Jupiter’s mass is more than 300 times that of Earth, and its diameter is about 11 times larger than Earth’s diameter. 
Eris (minor-planet designation 136199 Eris) is the most-massive and second-largest dwarf planet known in the Solar System. 
Jupiter also has 63 moons which is the most in the solar system. Jupiter is also famous for the Great Red Spot which is visible on Jupiter. The Red Spot was created by a storm that has been happening for hundreds of years. Jupiter is an enormous planet-however life could never exist on Jupiter. There are 8 planets in our solar system. These planets are: Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus & Neptune. Pluto was the 9th planets, but a few years ago it was classified as a dwarf planet.
The largest planet in the solar system is Jupiter. Jupiter is actually over 300 times larger than earth-and if Jupiter was a hollow shell-you could fit over 1,000 Earths inside of it. There are 8 planets in our solar system. These planets are: Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus & Neptune. Pluto was the 9th planets, but a few years ago it was classified as a dwarf planet.
Jupiter is the largest planet and Mercury is the smallest planet in our solar system. Extra-solar radii extremes would be HAT-P-32b as the largest and Kepler-42d as the small … est. TrES-4 Has the largest diameter but is very rarefied so weighs very  little.     The largest planet in the solar system is Jupiter, then Saturn,  Neptune, Uranus, Earth, Venus, Mars, Mercury, then, the smallest  and former planet, Pluto.    Jupiter.
by Fraser Cain on July 8, 2008. The biggest planet in the Solar System is Jupiter. But the title for the second biggest planet in our Solar System goes to Saturn. Just for a comparison, Jupiter measures 142,984 km across its equator. Saturn for comparison is only 120,536. So Jupiter is only 1.18 times as big of Saturn. Saturn is big, but it has a much lower mass. 
The largest planet in the solar system is Jupiter, then Saturn,  Neptune, Uranus, Earth, Venus, Mars, Mercury, then, the smallest  and former planet, Pluto. TrES-4 Has the largest diameter but is very rarefied so weighs very  little.     The largest planet in the solar system is Jupiter, then Saturn,  Neptune, Uranus, Earth, Venus, Mars, Mercury, then, the smallest  and former planet, Pluto.    Jupiter.
Jupiter is the largest planet in our Solar System    As of 2007:    XO-3b The planet has a radius of 1.92 times Jupiter, the largest of  any known extrasolar pl … anets.   TrES-4 Has the largest diameter but is very rarefied so weighs very  little.     The largest planet in the solar system is Jupiter, then Saturn,  Neptune, Uranus, Earth, Venus, Mars, Mercury, then, the smallest  and former planet, Pluto.    Jupiter.
If you’re wondering, here’s how big planets can get with a lot of mass, and here’s what is the biggest star in the Universe. And here’s the 2nd largest planet in the Solar System. Here’s another article about the which is the largest planet in the Solar System, and here’s what’s the smallest planet in the Solar System. We have recorded a whole series of podcasts about the Solar System at Astronomy Cast. Check them out here. 