DNA Replication. The rule of base pairing helps explain how DNA is replicated prior to cell division. Enzymes unzip the DNA by breaking the hydrogen bonds between the base pairs. The unpaired bases are now free to bind with other nucleotides with the appropriate complementary bases
1 The separation of the two single strands of DNA creates a ‘Y’ shape called a replication ‘fork’. 2  The two separated strands will act as templates for making the new strands of DNA. 3  One of the strands is oriented in the 3’ to 5’ direction (towards the replication fork), this is the leading strand. 1 Chunks of DNA, called Okazaki fragments, are then added to the lagging strand also in the 5’ to 3’ direction. 2  This type of replication is called discontinuous as the Okazaki fragments will need to be joined up later.
DNA Replication is the process by which two identical pieces of DNA are produced from one original piece of DNA. This process ensures that new cells that are made contain exactly the same information as the original cell. Firstly you need to recall the structure of DNA in order to understand the process of replication. Recall that the molecule is double stranded and that those strand are antiparallel to each other. You can see this on the video by the labeled prime ends.
DNA is double-stranded. The semi-conservative idea of replication means that the two strands split apart and each strand is used as a template to make a new strand. This metho … d allows each daughter cell to have one old strand and one new strand. RNA primers attach to single stranded DNA and DNA polymerase extends from the primers to form new strands of DNA, adding nucleotides matched to the template strand. The unwinding of DNA and synthesis of new strands forms a replication fork.
3.4.1 Explain DNA replication in terms of unwinding the double helix and separation of the strands by helicase, followed by formation of the new complementary strands by DNA polymerase. DNA replication is semi-conservative as both of the DNA molecules produced are formed from an old strand and a new one. 
DNA replication is the process by which DNA makes a copy of itself during cell division. 1  The first step in DNA replication is to ‘unzip’ the double helix structure of the DNA molecule. 1 Chunks of DNA, called Okazaki fragments, are then added to the lagging strand also in the 5’ to 3’ direction. 2  This type of replication is called discontinuous as the Okazaki fragments will need to be joined up later.
DNA replication is the process of producing two identical replicas from one original DNA molecule. This biological process occurs in all living organisms and is the basis for biological inheritance. Unwinding of DNA at the origin and synthesis of new strands results in replication forks growing bidirectional from the origin. A number of proteins are associated with the replication fork which helps in terms of the initiation and continuation of DNA synthesis.
Before a cell divides, its DNA is replicated (duplicated.) Because the two strands of a DNA molecule have complementary base pairs, the nucleotide sequence of each strand automatically supplies the information needed to produce its partner. If the two strands of a DNA molecule are separated, each can be used as a pattern or template to produce a complementary strand. Each template and its new complement together then form a new DNA double helix, identical to the original.
DNA is made up of two strands and each strand of the original DNA molecule serves as a template for the production of the complementary strand, a process referred to as semiconservative replication. Cellular proofreading and error-checking mechanisms ensure near perfect fidelity for DNA replication. Unwinding of DNA at the origin and synthesis of new strands results in replication forks growing bidirectional from the origin. A number of proteins are associated with the replication fork which helps in terms of the initiation and continuation of DNA synthesis.