The cause of hypertrichosis is unknown. Congenital hypertrichosis is believed to be a genetic disorder that is inherited or occurs as a result of spontaneous mutation. Acquired hypertrichosis lanuginosa sometimes occurs in people who at a later stage are diagnosed with a cancer of some form.
Hypertrichosis is excessive hair growth over and above the normal for the age, sex and race of an individual, in contrast to hirsutism, which is excess hair growth in women following a male distribution pattern. Hypertrichosis can develop all over the body or can be isolated to small patches.
Hypertrichosis is caused by a genetic birth defect or a side effect of certain medications. Hypertrichosis may also be related to an underlying illness.
Hypertrichosis is an abnormal hair growth that can occur despite of your sex, age and race. Unlike hirsutism, defined as a condition that can only be found in women and children caused by excessive androgen hormone in the body, hypertrichosis can give other underlying causes.
Hypertrichosis can be congenital or acquired. The acquired condition is usually caused by an illness or drugs. Illnesses that might cause this condition are hypothyroidism, malnutrition, AIDS, dermatomyositis (a connective tissue disease), and porphyria cutanea tarda (a condition involving enzymes).
Hypertrichosis is a condition that is characterized by excessive hair growth. The disease can be localized, meaning a particular region of the body can be affected by it and show excess hair growth. The disorder may also be generalized.
Congenital hypertrichosis terminalis. This is a variation of congenital hypertrichosis. This condition involves all over body hair growth, but the hair is fully pigmented terminal hair and the condition is almost always associated with gingival hyperplasia (teeth defects).
Problems with your central nervous system can also cause hypertrichosis. Drugs that are known to cause the acquired form of this condition are phenytoin (Dilantin), minoxidil (Rogaine), and cyclosporine. Body builders who use of anabolic steroids can develop this condition as well.
Hypertrichosis is the term used to describe excess hair growth in any part of the body as compared to that of a normal person of the same race, age or sex excluding androgen induced growth.