Inhaling droplets from coughs or sneezes is the most common way to catch the flu. Symptoms appear 1 to 7 days later (usually 2 to 3 days). Symptoms (except the cough) usually disappear within 4 to 7 days. Sometimes there is a second wave of fever at this time. The cough and tiredness usually lasts for weeks after the rest of the illness is over. 
Cold vs. Flu. If you experience a faster onset of symptoms, you may have the flu instead of a cold. For example, you may feel significantly worse within three to four hours if you have the flu. Flu-like symptoms may include a painful sore throat, a deep cough, extreme fatigue, and a sudden fever. Usually these can be treated at home. 
Cold symptoms usually begin with a sore throat, which usually goes away after a day or two. Nasal symptoms, runny nose, and congestion follow, along with a cough by the fourth and fifth days. Fever is uncommon in adults, but a slight fever is possible. Children are more likely to have a fever with a cold. A cold is a milder respiratory illness than the flu. While cold symptoms can make you feel bad for a few days, flu symptoms can make you feel quite ill for a few days to weeks. The flu can also result in serious health problems such as pneumonia and hospitalizations.
Flu symptoms are usually more severe than cold symptoms and come on quickly. Symptoms of flu include sore throat, fever, headache, muscle aches and soreness, congestion, and cough. Swine flu in particular is also associated with vomiting and diarrhea. A cold is a milder respiratory illness than the flu. While cold symptoms can make you feel bad for a few days, flu symptoms can make you feel quite ill for a few days to weeks. The flu can also result in serious health problems such as pneumonia and hospitalizations.
A Honor Society of Nursing (STTI) answered. The first symptoms of influenza (flu), including fever, chills, headache, and body aches, often begin to go away after about 2 or 4 days. In some cases, these symptoms will last 5 days or longer. The respiratory symptoms of influenza, such as coughing, throat irritation, and congestion may last for days or weeks. However, most people are not contagious after about a week from the beginning of symptoms.
Flu symptoms are usually more severe than the symptoms of a common cold. Symptoms typically develop one day to seven days after exposure, and can last from a few days to two weeks. They may include any or all of the following: 1  Fever (usually 100°F or warmer, lasting for several days), often with chills. 
All symptoms of the flu are usually gone in 7 to 10 days, although sometimes a cough can last for a couple of weeks after the other symptoms are gone. Answer by D4est. Confidence votes 40.4K. Usually a high fever lasts only a few days for a normal bout of the flu without secondary infections, perhaps 3 days at the most, although low grade fevers can accompany flu symptoms for slightly longer.
It usually takes around 4-5 days for the fever to mellow down and then later on it takes about a week for other symptoms to go away altogether. It is a long process because a lot of viruses are involved and without proper care a low degree influenza can turn into a terrible mess. Even if they do, it goes off pretty quickly. People getting the flu with fever often stay head bent on the question of how long does a fever last with the flu. In such cases people need to know that fever mostly stays till the entire virus is fought away.