Rosenhan published his findings in Science, criticizing the reliability of psychiatric diagnosis and the disempowering and demeaning nature of patient care experienced by the associates in the study. His article generated an explosion of controversy. Rosenhan himself and seven mentally healthy associates, called pseudopatients, attempted to gain admission to psychiatric hospitals by calling for an appointment and feigning auditory hallucinations. The hospital staffs were not informed of the experiment.
Below is a very brief summary of the Rosenhan study. You will need to use the more detailed summary here to revise for the exam. You can also find all of the past exam questions on Rosenhan's study here. 
This definition also implies that the presence of abnormal behavior in people should be rare or statistically unusual, which is not the case. Instead, any specific abnormal behavior may be unusual, but it is not unusual for people to exhibit some form of prolonged abnormal behavior at some point in their lives. Abnormal psychology is a division of psychology that studies people who are  abnormal  or  atypical  compared to the members of a given society. There is evidence that some psychological disorders are more common than was previously thought
For this experiment, Rosenhan used a well-known research and teaching hospital, whose staff had heard of the results of the initial study but claimed that similar errors could not be made at their institution. Rosenhan himself and seven mentally healthy associates, called pseudopatients, attempted to gain admission to psychiatric hospitals by calling for an appointment and feigning auditory hallucinations. The hospital staffs were not informed of the experiment.
Instructor: Tara DeLecce. Tara has taught Psychology and has a master's degree in evolutionary psychology. Although it can be helpful to use diagnostic labels to identify people with mental disorders for the purposes of treatment, the use of labels can come with negative consequences. The Dangers of Labeling. As demonstrated by this experiment, being labeled as mentally ill changes people's expectations of someone, and consequently they will treat that person in a manner differently than they treat people who are not labeled mentally ill.
Definition of Participant Observation. The participant observation technique that Rosenhan used differs from naturalistic observation in that the observer is not only part of the observed environment but also a participant in the situation being studied.
The study is considered an important and influential criticism of psychiatric diagnosis. It was while listening to one of R. D. Laing 's lectures that Rosenhan wondered if there was a way in which the reliability of psychiatric diagnoses could be tested experimentally. Rosenhan's study was done in two parts. Rosenhan himself and seven mentally healthy associates, called pseudopatients, attempted to gain admission to psychiatric hospitals by calling for an appointment and feigning auditory hallucinations. The hospital staffs were not informed of the experiment.
Biography [edit]. Rosenhan received his Bachelor of Arts degree from Yeshiva University. At Columbia University in 1953 he earned his master's degree, and five years later his Ph.D in psychology. Rosenhan was a leading expert on psychology and the law. He was a pioneer in the application of psychological methods to the practice of trial law process, including jury selection and jury consultation. Professor Rosenhan held a joint appointment with the Stanford University Department of Psychology and later became professor emeritus at Stanford University. He died on February 6, 2012, at the age of 82.
Introduction to the study. The history of mental illness is full of demons and witches, insane asylums and barbaric treatments. Early humans thought that there were demons inside a person’s head and, if they made holes in the person’s skull, the demons could come out. This procedure was called trepanning. Learning Objectives. You should be familiar with the experimental method used in this study, and be able to discuss issues of reliability in studies that involve ‘participant observation’. You should have an appreciation of the difficulty involved in the objective diagnosis of abnormality.