American Meaning: The name Cassidy is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Cassidy is: Clever. Welsh Meaning: The name Cassidy is a Welsh baby name. In Welsh the meaning of the name Cassidy is: Curly-headed. Irish Meaning: The name Cassidy is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Cassidy is: Intelligent; from Caiside; curly-headed.
It is of Irish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Cassidy is curly-headed. From the surname Caiside meaning descendent of Caiside, where the name Caiside means curly-headed, from Gaelic cas. Can also be taken as an elaborated form of Cass. Kreatif forms: Calsidy, Carsidy, Casdo. Cassidy has 1 masculine form: Kassidy. Cassidy is a very popular first name for females (#1817 out of 4276, Top 42%) and also a very popular surname for all people (#1240 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Cassidy for girls
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Cassidy and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Cassidy and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. 
Origin of the name Cassidy: Transferred use of the surname that is derived from the Irish surname O'Caiside which is of uncertain meaning. One historian believes it is derived from the Gaelic elements cas (a twisted lock of hair; ingenious, clever, sly) and the personal suffix-idhe: hence, clever one, one with the twisted locks..
Meaning of Cassidy. Irish name. In Irish, the name Cassidy means-clever. Other origins for the name Cassidy include-Irish, Gaelic, Welsh, Gaelic.The name Cassidy is a unisex name and can be used for a boy or girl name (male or female). Irish Name Meaning-clever.
Look up Cassidy in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Cassidy is a given name derived from an Irish surname and ultimately from the Gaelic given name Caiside, meaning clever or curly-haired.. The name Caiside comes from the Gaelic word element cas, according to Behindthename.com. Cassidy was the 244th most popular name for girls born in the United States in 2009. 