Currently, more than 500 different brands of tequila are on the market, while mezcal boasts only 100. To make mezcal, the sugar-rich core of the agave plant called the pina, piña is baked in a-rock lined pit oven over. Charcoal it is covered with layers of-palm fiber mats and, dirt giving the drink a, strong smoky. flavor 
1 The debut of Partida Tequila, estate-grown and made from 100% blue agave. 2  Partida Tequila makes a Blanco, Reposado (6 months in French-Canadian oak barrels) and Anejo (18 months in French-Canadian oak barrels), all awarded a rare 5-stars by acclaimed spirits critic F. Paul Pacult. There are, however, premium tequilas made from 100% blue agave. If it is not made from 100% agave, tequila is called mixto. Tequila made only from agave sugars must be made in Mexico, and is marked Hecho en Mexico (méxico made In). mexico
In Mexico, tequila's homeland, people often drink it straight, sometimes with a side of sangrita. Outside Mexico, however, it's common for tequila to be served as a shot, along with salt and a slice of lime or lemon. 1 It is also possible to attempt the Tequila Strong Love. 2  One person takes the salt in his/her mouth, and then makes out with the drinker. 3  After that the person takes the lime in his/her mouth, a bit stuck out, so the drinker can easily bite it
Tips. 1  It is also possible to attempt the Tequila Strong Love. 2  One person takes the salt in his/her mouth, and then makes out with the drinker. 3  After that the person takes the lime in his/her mouth, a bit stuck out, so the drinker can easily bite it. 1 It is also possible to attempt the Tequila Strong Love. 2  One person takes the salt in his/her mouth, and then makes out with the drinker.
From The Webtender Wiki. Tequila is a strong distilled alcoholic beverage produced from fermented Agave plant, made primarily in the area surrounding Tequila, a town in the western Mexican state of Jalisco, 50 km from Guadalajara. It is made from the agave plant (also called maguey) - a succulent, similar to the lily, which is native to Mexico. There are, however, premium tequilas made from 100% blue agave. If it is not made from 100% agave, tequila is called mixto. Tequila made only from agave sugars must be made in Mexico, and is marked Hecho en Mexico (méxico made In). mexico
Tequila is very strong..i brought her home from the hospital because she had alcohol poisoning.take only couple of shots or in a cocktail...and don't eat the worm...remember when the dad in that 2nd poltergeist and that worm came out of mouth. Source(s): T. Dodgegirl62 · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 
Tequila is an alcoholic beverage made through a distillation process involving the blue agave plant which is grown in Mexico. Pure Tequila is made solely from the agave plant, but some varieties of this drink are mixed with other ingredients, like corn, to come up with a different taste or save costs. As an alcoholic drink, Tequila has the reputation of being a strong drink. With Tequila bottles formulated with up to 40 percent alcohol, in itself it is a strong liquor. But aside from its alcohol content, many people also consider Tequila as a strong drink because of its taste. The bitter and sour flavor of this alcoholic beverage literally makes the impression that this drink is a strong one. And when flavors are smooth, they also give the sense of strength to the alcoholic drink. Some alcoholic beverage lovers also think that Tequila is stronger because of its color. With these drinkers, the drink color is usually associated with its strength.
In Mexico, the most traditional way to drink tequila is neat, without lime and salt. It is popular in some regions to drink fine tequila with a side of sangrita —a sweet, sour, and spicy drink typically made from orange juice, grenadine (or tomato juice), and hot chiles. If the bottle of tequila does not state on the label that it is manufactured from 100% blue agave (no sugars added), then, by default, that tequila is a mixto (manufactured from 51% blue agave). Some tequila distilleries label their tequila as made with blue agave or made from blue agave..