Mild TBI Symptoms. A traumatic brain injury (TBI) can be classified as mild if loss of consciousness and/or confusion and disorientation is shorter than 30 minutes. Even though this type of TBI is called “mild”, the effect on the family and the injured person can be devastating. Other Names For Mild TBI. 1  Concussion. 2  Minor head trauma. 3  Minor TBI. 4  Minor brain injury. 5  Minor head injury.
Symptoms. The signs and symptoms of a concussion can be subtle and may not be immediately apparent. Symptoms can last for days, weeks or even longer. Common symptoms after a concussive traumatic brain injury are headache, loss of memory (amnesia) and confusion. The amnesia, which may or may not follow a loss of consciousness, usually involves the loss of memory of the event that caused the concussion. 
Head trauma, brain trauma, traumatic brain damage and traumatic brain injury are common causes of the loss of taste and the loss of smell. The reliability and validity of this test as an objective determination of traumatic loss of smell has been widely established. We are New York brain injury lawyers who understand that your loss of smell and loss of taste as a result of a traumatic brain injury or a head injury will have a severe affect upon your life.
Our personal injury attorneys know that the ability to taste and smell can be lost or impaired after a head injury or traumatic brain injury. Mild, moderate, or severe brain injury can cause a loss of smell. Most individuals have never contemplated what life would be like without their sense of smell. The reliability and validity of this test as an objective determination of traumatic loss of smell has been widely established. We are New York brain injury lawyers who understand that your loss of smell and loss of taste as a result of a traumatic brain injury or a head injury will have a severe affect upon your life.
Common mild traumatic brain injury symptoms include dizziness, temporary loss of consciousness (less than 30 minutes), temporary memory loss, blurred vision, bad taste in the mouth, and confusion or daze. Mild traumatic brain injury symptoms may not be immediately apparent. 
Smell and taste dysfunction after traumatic brain injury. There is a hidden epidemic of smell and taste dysfunction in the United States following traumatic brain injuries (TBI). While this epidemic is well known to the patients who suffer with TBI most medical professionals are unfamiliar with its presence, common occurrence or social or emotional consequences.
###. About TBI and anosmia. Traumatic brain injury (TBI) occurs when the head suddenly and violently hits an object or when an object pierces the skull and enters brain tissue. Symptoms of a TBI can be mild, moderate or severe and the condition is most common among adolescents, young adults and the elderly. Anosmia is the inability to smell
Moderate to severe traumatic brain injuries. Moderate to severe traumatic brain injuries can include any of the signs and symptoms of mild injury, as well as the following symptoms that may appear within the first hours to days after a head injury: 
Typically, complete loss of smell — or what is called anosmia — will be quite noticeable to a person following a traumatic brain injury and may affect numerous aspects of their life. Unfortunately, there is no good treatment cure for post-traumatic anosmia. My friend had a brain hemorrhage from a blow to the head 10 years ago and has completely lost his sense of smell. Apparently, the part of his brain that controls his sense of smell was permanently damaged.
Problems with smell loss can result from craniofacial trauma, specifically damage to nasal passage ways, shearing injury of the olfactory nerve, or injury to primary or secondary smell centers in the frontotemporal regions of the brain. My friend had a brain hemorrhage from a blow to the head 10 years ago and has completely lost his sense of smell. Apparently, the part of his brain that controls his sense of smell was permanently damaged.