The first syllable of a word is the initial syllable and the last syllable is the final syllable. In languages accented on one of the last three syllables, the last syllable is called the ultima, the next-to-last is called the penult, and the third syllable from the end is called the antepenult. The rime is usually the portion of a syllable from the first vowel to the end. For example, /aet/ æt is the rime of all of the words, at, sat and. Flat, however the nucleus does not necessarily need to be a vowel in some. languages
A syllable is made up of either a single vowel sound (as in the pronunciation of oh) or a combination of vowel and consonant(s) (as in no and not). A syllable that stands alone is called a monosyllable. A word containing two or more syllables is called a polysyllable. See Examples and Observations below. 1 [T]he only essential element of a syllable is a nucleus. 2  Because a single sound can constitute a syllable and a single syllable can constitute a word, a word can consist of a single vowel--but you already knew that from knowing the words a and I 3  .. (Edward Finegan, Language: Its Structure and Use, 6th ed.
2. : one or more letters (as syl, la, and ble) in a word (as syl*la*ble) usually set off from the rest of the word by a centered dot or a hyphen and roughly corresponding to the syllables of spoken language and treated as helps to pronunciation or as guides to placing hyphens at the end of a line. 3. 2. : one or more letters (as syl, la, and ble) in a written word (as syl*la*ble) usually separated from the rest of the word by a centered dot or a hyphen and used as guides to the division of the word at the end of a line.
1 The number of times that you hear the sound of a vowel is the number of syllables in a word. 2  When two (or more) vowels are next to each other, the number of syllables depends on the number of vowel sounds. 3  examples: free (1 syllable), eat (1 syllable), & bio (2 syllables). 1 When two (or more) vowels are next to each other, the number of syllables depends on the number of vowel sounds. 2  examples: free (1 syllable), eat (1 syllable), & bio (2 syllables). 3  If a vowel is silent, it is not counted as a syllable.
1 A syllable is the sound of a vowel (A, E, I, O, U) that is created when pronouncing the letters A, E, I, O, U, or Y. 2  The letter Y is a vowel only if it creates an A, E, I, O, or U sound. 3  examples: fry, try, cry, & dry. 4  The number of times that you hear the sound of a vowel is the number of syllables in a word. 1 When two (or more) vowels are next to each other, the number of syllables depends on the number of vowel sounds. 2  examples: free (1 syllable), eat (1 syllable), & bio (2 syllables). 3  If a vowel is silent, it is not counted as a syllable.
In linguistics, stress is the relative emphasis that may be given to certain syllables in a word, or to certain words in a phrase or sentence. Stress is typically signaled by such properties as increased loudness and vowel length, full articulation of the vowel, and changes in pitch. 
1 The letter Y is a vowel only if it creates an A, E, I, O, or U sound. 2  examples: fry, try, cry, & dry. 3  The number of times that you hear the sound of a vowel is the number of syllables in a word. 4  When two (or more) vowels are next to each other, the number of syllables depends on the number of vowel sounds. 1 When two (or more) vowels are next to each other, the number of syllables depends on the number of vowel sounds. 2  examples: free (1 syllable), eat (1 syllable), & bio (2 syllables). 3  If a vowel is silent, it is not counted as a syllable.
A syllable is a unit of organization for a sequence of speech sounds. For example, the word water is composed of two syllables: wa and ter. The rime is usually the portion of a syllable from the first vowel to the end. For example, /aet/ æt is the rime of all of the words, at, sat and. Flat, however the nucleus does not necessarily need to be a vowel in some. languages
A syllable is typically made up of a syllable nucleus (most often a vowel) with optional initial and final margins (typically, consonants). Syllables are often considered the phonological building blocks of words. They can influence the rhythm of a language, its prosody, its poetic meter and its stress patterns. The rime is usually the portion of a syllable from the first vowel to the end. For example, /aet/ æt is the rime of all of the words, at, sat and. Flat, however the nucleus does not necessarily need to be a vowel in some. languages