1 Bell’s palsy is a rapid unilateral facial nerve paresis (weakness) or paralysis (complete loss of movement) of unknown cause. The condition leads to the partial or complete inability to voluntarily move facial muscles on the affected side of the face.
The pressure on the facial nerve that results causes the paralysis of the face. There are other conditions that may lead to facial paralysis, like a stroke or a brain tumor, but if no cause is found, Bell's Palsy is used as the diagnosis of exclusion.
1 Bell's palsy is a condition whereby the inner ear becomes inflamed, resulting in pressure on the facial nerve, which in turn causes facial paralysis on the affected side. 2  Facial palsy is the most common acute condition involving only one nerve, with Bell's palsy being the most common cause of acute facial paralysis.
Knowledge center. Bell's Palsy is the paralysis or severe weakness of the nerve that controls the facial muscles on the side of the face-the facial nerve or seventh cranial nerve. Patients typically find they suddenly cannot control their facial muscles, usually on one side.
Bell's palsy is named for Sir Charles Bell, a 19th century Scottish surgeon who described the facial nerve and its connection to the condition. The disorder, which is not related to stroke, is the most common cause of facial paralysis. Generally, Bell's palsy affects only one of the paired facial nerves and one side of the face, however, in rare cases, it can affect both sides.
Denying emotions of anger such as in the case of Bell’s Palsy causes a dramatic and sudden onset of symptoms, often overnight. Corticosteroids, a powerful anti-inflammatory, can treat the condition effectively. Anti-viral drugs surprisingly do not help.
When the facial muscle malfunctions, the following symptoms may emerge-symptoms of Bell's palsy: 1  Sudden paralysis/weakness in one side of the face. 2  It may be difficult or impossible to close one of the eyelids. 3  Irritation in the eye because it does not blink and becomes too dry.
Bell's palsy is a form of temporary facial paralysis resulting from damage or trauma to the facial nerves. The facial nerve-also called the 7th cranial nerve-travels through a narrow, bony canal (called the Fallopian canal) in the skull, beneath the ear, to the muscles on each side of the face.