The average salary for credit union jobs is $48,000. Average credit union salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. The credit union salary comparisons feature allows job seekers to get the information required to make important career decisions and negotiate salary ranges. For additional credit union salary information, we recommend visiting Payscale.com.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Credit and Collections Manager in the United States is $78,321, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Credit and Collections Manager in the United States are expected to make less than $78,321. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Credit and Collections Manager in the United States that make less than that annual salary.
Working at home can be a dream or a nightmare, depending on the job, your preferences, and the disposition of your colleagues. It's pretty easy to fin... Key Results of the 2015 Women In the Workplace Study. Women in the Workplace, a recent study conducted by LeanIn.org and McKinsey & Company – building off of similar work done by the latter in 2012 – exam... How to Influence Without Authority. 
Among these, 19% of CEOs work for credit unions that expect to have a plan in place by year-end 2011, while 16% lead credit unions with no such plans.The average age of a credit union CEO is 52.5 years, with 25% nearing retirement age. Nineteen percent of CEOs are 60 to 64 years of age, and 6% are 65 or older. And 12% of credit unions had already adjusted their salary structures for 2011 at the time the data was collected. Formal salary ranges Nearly 20% of credit unions with $1 million to $35 million in assets and at least one full-time employee have formal salary ranges.
Average Credit Union Salaries. The average salary for credit union jobs is $48,000. Average credit union salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term credit union anywhere in the job listing. The credit union salary comparisons feature allows job seekers to get the information required to make important career decisions and negotiate salary ranges. For additional credit union salary information, we recommend visiting Payscale.com.
Credit Union Salary Information. This free salary calculator uses salary data from millions of job listings indexed by Simply Hired's job search engine. The credit union salary comparisons feature allows job seekers to get the information required to make important career decisions and negotiate salary ranges. For additional credit union salary information, we recommend visiting Payscale.com.
The annual salary for someone with the job title Credit and Collections Manager may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Credit and Collections Manager in the United States that make less than that annual salary.
Credit unions spent an average of $10,073 per full-time employee on benefits in 2010.When expressed as a ratio of gross income, salary and benefits expenses account for 45.8% and 9.5% of gross income, respectively.Almost 60% of credit unions with $1 million to $35 million in assets have a sponsor. And 12% of credit unions had already adjusted their salary structures for 2011 at the time the data was collected. Formal salary ranges Nearly 20% of credit unions with $1 million to $35 million in assets and at least one full-time employee have formal salary ranges.
Written by: n Beth Soltis, senior research analyst Companion products: CUNA’s 2011-2012 Small Credit Union Staff Salary Survey covers the most common full-time and part-time positions at credit unions with $1 million to $35 million in assets. These findings are based on a sub-sample of a larger survey. And 12% of credit unions had already adjusted their salary structures for 2011 at the time the data was collected. Formal salary ranges Nearly 20% of credit unions with $1 million to $35 million in assets and at least one full-time employee have formal salary ranges.