This explanation suggests that psychological disorders are the result of faulty/maladaptive thoughts. Thus, in terms of eating disorders, this may involve misperception of their own body and involve faulty reasoning about the self, body and eating. COGNITIVE EXPLANATIONS OF ANOREXIA NERVOSA. 2 main ideas: Personality and faulty cognitions. Evaluation. • The cognitive explanation provides a good account of what can help to maintain an eating disorder, such as anorexia, but not what causes them in the first place as other factors may trigger the disorder which also results in misperceptions in the sufferer’s thinking processes.
Connecting feelings, thoughts and deeds: Cognitive Behavior Therapy and eating disorders. Cognitive-behavioral therapy, or CBT, is the leading evidence-based treatment for adults with eating disorders and is also adapted for use with younger patients. Structured treatment that focuses on the present and the future. The cognitive-behavioral model emphasizes the important role that both thoughts (cognitive) and actions (behavioral) can play in maintaining an eating disorder.
“Among anorexia nervosa patient populations, at least one-half no longer suffered from anorexia nervosa at follow up [after cognitive-behavioral therapy treatment], but many continued to have other eating disorders; mortality was significantly higher than would be expected in the population. With the support of decades’ worth of research, CBT is a time-limited and focused approach that helps a person understand how their thinking and negative self-talk and self-image can directly impact their eating and negative behaviors. Cognitive behavioral therapy is the gold standard treatment for anorexia.
Pages: 1 2 All. Treatment of anorexia, as with all eating disorders, can be challenging. Effective treatment addresses the underlying emotional and mental health issues, issues that often date back to childhood and a person’s self-perception and self-image. With the support of decades’ worth of research, CBT is a time-limited and focused approach that helps a person understand how their thinking and negative self-talk and self-image can directly impact their eating and negative behaviors. Cognitive behavioral therapy is the gold standard treatment for anorexia.
The Cognitive Explanation of Anorexia. Evaluation of the Cognitive Explanation. The cognitive explanation of Anorexia Nervosa states that the disorder is a result of defective and maladaptive thought processes. Often sufferers of Anorexia Nervosa have misperceptions of their body and have flawed reasoning behind their eating habits about themselves and their body. Faulty thinking may either be distortions to thinking or errors in thinking.
Treating anorexia. The treatment for anorexia nervosa usually involves a combination of psychological therapy and supervised weight gain. It is important to start treatment as early as possible, particularly if someone has already lost a lot of weight, to reduce the risk of serious complications of anorexia. Medication alone is not usually effective in treating anorexia. It is usually only used in combination with the measures mentioned above to treat associated psychological problems, such as obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) or depression.
1 The cognitive explanation states the obvious, in this case that people who suffer with anorexia see themselves as overweight when they are under weight. 2  Women are generally more dissatisfied with their bodies more than men are, however, not all women develop eating disorders, such as anorexia. Often sufferers of Anorexia Nervosa have misperceptions of their body and have flawed reasoning behind their eating habits about themselves and their body. Faulty thinking may either be distortions to thinking or errors in thinking.
Among patients with severe and enduring anorexia nervosa, treatments that focus on recovery may not match patients' readiness to improve and can result in dropout. A novel approach for this population may be to focus on improving treatment retention and quality of life rather than on eating disorder recovery. The efficacy of CBT and IPT for adults with anorexia nervosa was evaluated against a comparison treatment, specialist supportive clinical management (SSCM; an eating disorder education intervention focused on weight restoration) in a randomized controlled trial (RCT).