Accountants, managers and senior analysts are usually paid on salary; they get the same pay check if they work 40 or 60 hours in a week, but their performance is measured against the quality of their work, not against the time it took to complete it.
Essentially, the exemption covers most white-collar jobs that are typically paid by salary. In other words, employers are generally not required to pay overtime to salaried white-collar professionals for working more than 40 hours in a particular workweek.
Salary is a regularly paid amount of money, constituting all or part of an employee's wages, paid on a weekly or less frequent basis, that is not subject to reduction due to the quality or quantity of work performed. This is the general definition in federal law (29 CFR 541.118).
I get paid by salary. On a typical pay period I work 80 hours, but when the month is long I may work up to 96 hours. Why do I still get the same pay when I work 96 hours as I do 80. If I miss a day when I do have the long pay periods I get paid less.
For the employer, offering a paid salary means negotiating. Naturally, employees considering accepting a salaried position want to make sure that they're paid as much as they think they'e worth --- and although you may want to compensate them accordingly, you have your bottom line to think about.
The salary cap refers to a set amount of money that each of the NFL's 32 teams is allowed to spend on player salaries for any given league year. When the league introduced the cap in 1994, it was set at $34 million. By 2014, the cap had soared to $133 million, a $10 million increase over 2013.
Example: A non-exempt employee is paid a salary of $500 per week, and works 50 hours in a given week. Since the agreement is just that the employee will be paid a $500 salary, that sum would cover any number of hours worked. The regular rate for this week is the salary ($500) divided by the 50 hours worked, or $10.00.
Definition. According to the U.S. Department of Labor, when an employee is paid on a salary basis, this means essentially that she receives regular pay on a regular basis, and that this amount doesn't fluctuate in regard to the quality or quantity of work actually performed.