-Formal Region- (uniform, homogeneous) or homogenous region is an area within which everyone shares in common one or mare distinctive characteristics. The shared feature could be a cultural value such as a common language, or an environmental climate.
This is in contrast to a substance that is heterogeneous Usually homogeneous in chemi … stry refers to a homogenous mixture which is a substance that can technically be separated but still blends with all other materials in the mixture or in uniform. + 49 others found this useful. Freanne Garin. Graham Howarth.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. adjective. The definition of homogeneous is all the same, or of a similar structure or quality. When there are a group of kids who all look and dress exactly the same, this is an example of ahomogeneous group.
This is in contrast to a substance that is heterogeneous Usually homogeneous in chemi … stry refers to a homogenous mixture which is a substance that can technically be separated but still blends with all other materials in the mixture or in uniform. + 49 others found this useful. Freanne Garin.
Homogeneous Area. In accordance with Asbestos Hazard and Emergency Response Act (AHERA) definitions, an area of surfacing materials, thermal surface insulation, or miscellaneous material that is uniform in color and texture. Try searching Homogeneous Area across the entire website.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Keesha101544. Confidence votes 276. Homogeneous Region: An area defined by a common characteristic or set of characteristics throughout its whole area.
homogeneous. adjective. 1  Consisting of parts that are the same; uniform in structure or composition: “a tight-knit, homogeneous society” (James Fallows). 2  Of the same or similar nature or kind: “Professional archivists &ellipsis; developed more or less homogeneous conservation practices” (David Howard).
Home Green Dictionary A-Z Homogeneous Area. Homogeneous Area. In accordance with Asbestos Hazard and Emergency Response Act (AHERA) definitions, an area of surfacing materials, thermal surface insulation, or miscellaneous material that is uniform in color and texture.