Students will classify organisms based on the distinguishing characteristics of the domains and/or kingdoms of living organisms. Students will identify and/or describe how and/or why organisms are hierarchically classified based on evolutionary relationships. 
Archaea are prokaryotic cells that often live in extreme environments. Bacteria are prokaryotic cells that include other bacteria including cyanobacteria. Eukarya have eukaryotic cells and are subdivided into the following Kingdoms: Protista, Fungi, Plantae, and Animalia. There are six kingdoms that are currently recognized: Archaebacteria, Eubacteria, Protista, Fungi, Plantae, and Animalia.
The two three characteristics that best define an organism from the kingdom Animalia are: 1. Eukaryotic cell type 2. Motility (meaning they can move independantly, or at least … change positions) 3. They are ALL heterotrophic, meaning they must consume other organisms. Here is how the five kingdoms are organized. Monera Monera are single-celled organisms that don't have a nucleus. Bacteria make up the entire kingdom. There are more forms of bacteria than any other organism on Earth.
Bacteria Domain: Bacteria are prokaryotic cells that include other bacteria that are found everywhere and are the ones people are most familiar with. Eukarya Domain: Eukarya have eukaryotic cells and are subdivided into the following kingdoms: Protista, Fungi, Plantae, and Animalia. Eukarya have eukaryotic cells and are subdivided into the following Kingdoms: Protista, Fungi, Plantae, and Animalia. There are six kingdoms that are currently recognized: Archaebacteria, Eubacteria,
Kingdom Animalia Characteristics. General characteristics of the Kingdom Animalia are as follows: Animals are eukaryotic, multicellular and heterotrophic organisms. They have multiple cells with mitochondria and they depend on other organisms for food. Habitat-Most of the animals inhabit seas, fewer are seen in fresh water and even fewer on land. The Kingdom Animalia is characterized by eukaryotic and heterotrophic organisms. They are multicellular and lack cell wall. They depend directly or indirectly of plants for their food.
SC.912.L.15.6 Discuss distinguishing characteristics of the domains and kingdoms of living organisms. Organisms classified as fungi have unique characteristics. A. single cells without a nucleus B. multicellular with chloroplasts C. multicellular filaments that absorb nutrients D. colonies of single, photosynthetic cells that reproduce asexually.
Lesson Summary. Kingdom Protista contains the protists, or all the organisms that do not fit into the other kingdoms of life. Protists can be heterotrophic or autotrophic, mobile or immobile, single-celled or multi-celled, solo or a member of a colony. They are categorized into three main categories based on how they obtain nutrients. Characteristics of Protists. Protists are eukaryotic organisms that cannot be classified as a plant, animal, or fungus. They are mostly unicellular, but some, like algae, are multicellular. Kelp, or 'seaweed,' is a large multicellular protist that provides food, shelter, and oxygen for numerous underwater ecosystems.
1 Heterotrophic, which means they have to get their own food. 2  Plants are autotrophic because they make their own food through photosynthesis. 3  Because they cannot make their own food, members of the Animalia Kingdom must ingest, or eat, other organisms. 4  Eukaryotes: this is the type of cells animals have. Characteristics of Animalia Kingdom. It's hard to imagine that a sponge attached to a rock and a lion are in the same kingdom, but they share certain characteristics that land them together. For instance, creatures in the Animalia Kingdom are: 1  Multicellular, which means that they are made up of more than one cell.