Standard deviation is a measure of how spread out a data set is. It's used in a huge number of applications. In finance, standard deviations of price data are frequently used as a measure of volatility. In opinion polling, standard deviations are a key part of calculating margins of error. 
The more spread apart the data, the higher the deviation. The standard deviation is calculated as the square root of the variance. (2) In finance, standard deviation is applied to the annual rate of return of an investment to measure the investment's volatility. An analyst may wish to calculate the standard deviation of historical returns on a stock or a portfolio as a measure of the investment's riskiness. The higher the standard deviation of an investment's returns, the greater the relative riskiness because of uncertainty in the amount of return. See also risk, variance.
The standard deviation of a random variable, statistical population, data set, or probability distribution is the square root of its variance. It is algebraically simpler, though in practice less robust, than the average absolute deviation. First, calculate the deviations of each data point from the mean, and square the result of each: The variance is the mean of these values: and the population standard deviation is equal to the square root of the variance: This formula is valid only if the eight values with which we began form the complete population.
Standard Deviation Definition. Standard Deviation is a statistical term used to measure the amount of variability or dispersion around an average. Technically it is a measure of volatility. Dispersion is the difference between the actual and the average value. The larger this dispersion or variability is, the higher is the standard deviation. 
Standard deviation is a statistical measurement of how far a variable quantity, such as the price of a stock, moves above or below its average value. The wider the range, which means the greater the standard deviation, the riskier an investment is considered to be. An analyst may wish to calculate the standard deviation of historical returns on a stock or a portfolio as a measure of the investment's riskiness. The higher the standard deviation of an investment's returns, the greater the relative riskiness because of uncertainty in the amount of return. See also risk, variance.
standard deviation. A statistical measure of the variability of a distribution. An analyst may wish to calculate the standard deviation of historical returns on a stock or a portfolio as a measure of the investment's riskiness. The higher the standard deviation of an investment's returns, the greater the relative riskiness because of uncertainty in the amount of return. See also risk, variance.
The standard deviation is also important in finance, where the standard deviation on the rate of return on an investment is a measure of the volatility of the investment. First, calculate the deviations of each data point from the mean, and square the result of each: The variance is the mean of these values: and the population standard deviation is equal to the square root of the variance: This formula is valid only if the eight values with which we began form the complete population.
Email. Meaning and definition of Standard Deviation. The general definition of standard deviation can be given as a measure of the dispersion of a set data from its mean. A higher dispersion in the data indicates a higher deviation
DEFINITION of 'Standard Deviation'. 1. A measure of the dispersion of a set of data from its mean. The more spread apart the data, the higher the deviation. Standard deviation is calculated as the square root of variance. 2. In finance, standard deviation is applied to the annual rate of return of an investment to measure the investment's volatility. Standard deviation is also known as historical volatility and is used by investors as a gauge for the amount of expected volatility