1 Sodium ions are one of the dominant extracellular ions. 2  Aldosterone increases sodium reabsorption from the filtrate. 3  ADH increases water reabsorption from the nephron, and atrial natriuretic hormone increases sodium loss in the urine. 4  Aldosterone increases potassium secretion
Aldosterone causes an increase in salt and water reabsorption into the bloodstream from the kidney thereby increasing the blood volume, restoring salt levels and blood pressure.
Diuretics reduce Na reabsorption from the lumen of the nephron. Water reabsorption is also reduced. Therefore, Na and water are lost in the urine, which increases urine flow. The decreased reabsorption of Na and water from the nephron reduces blood volume, thereby reducing blood pressure.
ADH (Antidiuretic Hormone). The brain and kidneys regulate the amount of water excreted by the body. When the blood volume is low, the concentration of solutes in the blood is high. When the hypothalamus senses this low blood volume and increased serum osmolality it synthesizes ADH, a small peptide molecule.
adrenal mineralocorticoid hormone; causes retention of sodium (Na +) and excretion of unwanted potassium (K +) and hydrogen (H +) ions via urine. n an adrenal hormone that causes elevation of blood pressure through the retention of sodium and the resultant increase in blood plasma volume.
The latter two effects reduce the reabsorption of water by the kidneys. So the volume of urine increases as does the amount of sodium excreted in it. The net effect of these actions is to reduce blood pressure by reducing the volume of blood in the circulatory system.
Antidiuretic Hormone. Antidiuretic hormone, or ADH, is produced by the hypothalamus and released by the posterior pituitary gland as a result of either low blood volume or increased sodium concentration. When released, ADH acts in the kidneys to increase the reabsorption of water.
Aldosterone also causes water to be reabsorbed along with sodium; this increases blood volume and therefore blood pressure. Thus, aldosterone indirectly regulates blood levels of electrolytes (sodium, potassium and hydrogen) and helps to maintain the blood pH.
hormone secreted by the adrenal glands, at a rate regulated by the level of sodium in body fluids. Acts in the kidneys to enhance reabsorption of sodium, reducing its loss in the urine. Similar action on sweat glands reduces sodium loss when sweating rate is high. See also hormones; Table 1.