The Mediterranean Sea to the north of Egypt and the Red Sea, the Gulf of Suez, and the Gulf of Aqaba to the east endow the country with a coastline stretching over 1820 miles in all. Egypt covers an area of 386,660 sq mi and is the 30th largest country in the world. Geography of Egypt: Egypt is located in the northeastern fringes of Africa and shares international boundaries with Libya to the west (692 miles), Sudan to the south (791 miles), and Israel to the north-east (165 miles).
The longest straight-line distance in Egypt from north to south is 1,024 km (636 mi), while that from east to west measures 1,240 km (771 mi). More than 2,900 km (1800 mi) of coastline on the Mediterranean Sea, the Gulf of Suez, the Gulf of Aqaba, and the Red Sea constitute Egypt's maritime boundaries. Despite covering only about 5.5% of the total area of Egypt, the Nile Valley and Nile Delta are the most important regions, being the country's only cultivable regions and supporting about 99% of the population. The Nile valley extends approximately 800 km from Aswan to the outskirts of Cairo.
Cairo (/ˈkaɪroʊ/ KYE-roh; Arabic: القاهرة ‎; Coptic: Ⲕⲁϩⲓⲣⲏ) is the capital of Egypt and the largest city in the Middle-East and second-largest in Africa after Lagos. Its metropolitan area is the 15th largest in the world. Located near the Nile Delta, it was founded in 969 CE. Nicknamed the city of a thousand minarets  for its preponderance of Islamic architecture, Cairo has long been a center of the region's political and cultural life. The Egyptian name for Cairo is said to be: Khere-Ohe, meaning: The Place of Combat, supposedly, in reference to a battle which took place between the Gods Seth and Horus. Sometimes the city is informally also referred to as كايرو Kayro [ˈkaejɾo] . ˈkæjɾo
Some of the largest are Cairo University, the American University in Cairo and Ain Shams University. 8) Cairo is located in the northern part of Egypt about 100 miles (165 km) from the Mediterranean Sea (map). It is also about 75 miles (120 km) from the Suez Canal. 6) Today Cairo is the economic center of Egypt and much of the Egypt's industrial products are either created in the city or pass through it on the Nile River. Despite its economic success, its rapid growth has meant that city services and infrastructure cannot keep up with demand.
By Amanda Briney. Cairo is the capital of the north African country of Egypt. It is one of the largest cities in the world and it is the largest in Africa. Cairo is known as being a very densely populated city as well as being the center of Egypt's culture and politics. 6) Today Cairo is the economic center of Egypt and much of the Egypt's industrial products are either created in the city or pass through it on the Nile River. Despite its economic success, its rapid growth has meant that city services and infrastructure cannot keep up with demand.
Arab Republic of Egypt enjoys a strategic location in the northeast corner of the African continent. Egypt shares its boundary with Mediterranean Sea in the North, Sudan in the South, Israel and Red Sea in the East and Libya in the West. Egypt has played a major role in transportation between the continents of Africa, Asia and Europe due to its important geographical location. The approximate land area of Egypt is 9,97,738 sq km and it is 1085 km north to south and 1255 km east to west. 
Egypt GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION. The Egypt geographic location is the North Africa, between the Mediterranean Sea in North, the Red Sea and Israel in East, Sudan in South and Libya in West. Egypt is traversed by the Nile, the longest river in the world. Indirectly, the Nile contributed to the making of the without precedent architectural masterpieces. No other history don` t fascinate more than the one of the ancient Egyptians. The more you try to elucidate it, the more it gets deeper in mystery.
Cairo International Airport is located in the North-East of Cairo, the Capital of Egypt. The Arab Republic of Egypt is a country marked by its unique geographical location & convenient weather. 
detailed map of Cairo and near places. Welcome to the Cairo google satellite map! This place is situated in Al Qahirah (Cairo), Urban Governates, Egypt, its geographical coordinates are 30° 3' 0 North, 31° 15' 0 East and its original name (with diacritics) is Cairo. See Cairo photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Cairo in Egypt.