Atypical Ribs. Ribs 1, 2, 11 and 12 can be describes as ‘atypical’ – they have features that are not common to all the ribs. Rib 1 is shorter and wider than the other ribs. It only has one facet on its head for articulation with its corresponding vertebrae (there isn’t a thoracic vertebrae above it). The superior surface is marked by two grooves, which make way for the subclavian vessels.
They form the region of the spinal column inferior to the cervical vertebrae of the neck and superior to the lumbar vertebrae of the lower back.... Click to read more below. The thoracic vertebrae are a group of twelve small bones that form the vertebral spine in the upper trunk. Thoracic vertebrae are unique among the bones of the spine in that they are the only vertebrae that support ribs and have overlapping spinous processes. The first nine thoracic vertebrae (T1 through T9) contain a pair of demi-facets, where a facet is split between two adjacent vertebral bodies. Meanwhile, the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth (T1, T10, T11 and T12) vertebrae all contain a pair of full facets on their vertebral bodies to support ribs.
Among the vertebrae of the spinal column, the cervical vertebrae are the thinnest and most delicate bones. Yet, in spite of their size, the cervical vertebrae have the huge jobs of supporting the head, protecting the spinal cord, and providing mobility to the head and neck. The cervical vertebrae are stacked along the length of the neck to form a continuous column between the skull and the chest.... Click to read more below. The cervical vertebrae of the spine consist of seven bony rings that reside in the neck between the base of the skull and the thoracic vertebrae in the trunk
In humans, there are twelve thoracic vertebrae and they are intermediate in size between the cervical and lumbar vertebrae; they increase in size going towards the lumbar vertebrae, with the lower ones being a lot larger than the upper. By convention, the human thoracic vertebrae are numbered T1-T12, with the first one (T1) located closest to the skull and the others going down the spine towards the lumbar region.
Functionally these articulations in combination with the articulations with the head of the rib at the body of the vertebrae are important because they limit the mobility of the thoracic vertebrae. Thoracic vertebrae 11 and 12 do not have costal facets. 
The Costal Facets (p. 33). 1  Thoracic vertebrae are unique in that they have facets on their bodies and transverse processes for articulation with ribs (T11 and T12 are exceptions). 2  Two demifacets are located laterally on bodies of T2 to T9. 
The human vertebral column consists of 33 vertebrae. These are divided into different regions, which correspond to the curves of the spinal column. These regions are called the cervical spine, thoracic spine, lumbar spine, sacrum and coccyx. There are a total of 33 vertebrae in the vertebral column. The articulating vertebrae are named according to their region of the spine. There are seven cervical vertebrae, twelve thoracic vertebrae and five lumbar vertebrae. Vertebrae in these regions are essentially alike, with minor variation.
In other animals the number of thoracic vertebrae can vary greatly; for example, most marsupials have 13, but koalas have only 11. 12 to 15 is common among mammals, with 18 to 20 in horses, tapirs, rhinoceroses, and elephants, and extremes in mammals are marked by certain sloths with 25 and cetaceans with 9. By convention, the human thoracic vertebrae are numbered T1-T12, with the first one (T1) located closest to the skull and the others going down the spine towards the lumbar region.
The vertebral column is composed of a series of 31 separate bones known as vertebrae. There are seven cervical or neck vertebrae, 12 thoracic vertebrae, and five lumbar vertebrae. The sacrum is composed of five fused vertebrae, and there are two coccygeal vertebrae which are sometimes fused (fig. 