The Epistle to the Ephesians, also called the Letter to the Ephesians and often shortened to Ephesians, is the tenth book of the New Testament. In the Epistle to the Romans, Paul writes from the point of view of the demonstration of the righteousness of God — his covenant faithfulness and saving justice — in the gospel; the author of Ephesians writes from the perspective of union with Christ, who is the head of the true church.
Patient discussion about EPH. Q. after a pedicure, the soles of my feet are dark w/freckles, skin is itchy/thick, my derm says its eczema,help! the pedicure was in fall, 2002. I mad a mistake and wore nylon boots during a storm, the dye never fully disappeared. I would scrub the soles of my feet until I couldn't walk. A gene on chromosome 7q32-q36 that encodes a member of the ephrin-A receptor subfamily of receptor tyrosine kinases, which promiscuously bind membrane-bound ephrin-A family ligands residing on adjacent cells, leading to contact-dependent bidirectional signalling into neighbouring cells.
References for Ephesians 2:1. 2 in which you used to live when you followed the ways of this world and of the ruler of the kingdom of the air, the spirit who is now at work in those who are disobedient. References for Ephesians 2:11. 12 remember that at that time you were separate from Christ, excluded from citizenship in Israel and foreigners to the covenants of the promise, without hope and without God in the world.
Another major theme in Ephesians is the keeping of Christ's body (that is, the Church) pure and holy. Therefore be imitators of God, as beloved children. And walk in love, as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us, a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. In the Epistle to the Romans, Paul writes from the point of view of the demonstration of the righteousness of God — his covenant faithfulness and saving justice — in the gospel; the author of Ephesians writes from the perspective of union with Christ, who is the head of the true church.
EPH. A gene on chromosome 7q32-q36 that encodes a member of the ephrin-A receptor subfamily of receptor tyrosine kinases, which promiscuously bind membrane-bound ephrin-A family ligands residing on adjacent cells, leading to contact-dependent bidirectional signalling into neighbouring cells.
Pronounced Eefs, this title is short for Ephraim Williams, whose will and determination led to the founding of the college. Varsity teams at Williams are referred to as Ephs and on occasion men's teams are called Ephmen and women's teams are called Ephwomen. 
Themes [edit]. The main theme of Ephesians is “the Church, the Body of Christ.”. As a prisoner for the Lord, then, I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling you have received. Be completely humble and gentle; be patient, bearing with one another in love. In the Epistle to the Romans, Paul writes from the point of view of the demonstration of the righteousness of God — his covenant faithfulness and saving justice — in the gospel; the author of Ephesians writes from the perspective of union with Christ, who is the head of the true church.
Ephesians. n. 1. (Bible) (functioning as singular) a book of the New Testament (in full The Epistle of Paul the Apostle to the Ephesians), containing an exposition of the divine plan for the world and the consummation of this in Christ. (ɪˈfi ʒənz). n. (used with a sing. E·phe·sian. n. 1. A native or inhabitant of ancient Ephesus. 2. Ephesians (used with a sing. verb) See Table at Bible. adj. Of or relating to ancient Ephesus or its people, language, or culture. [From Latin. , inhabitants of Ephesus, from Greek.
Ephesians Summaryby Jay SmithThe book of Ephesians is a Prison Epistle (letter written while in prison). Paul wrote it about 60-62 A.D. The key personalities of Ephesians are the Apostle Paul and Tychicus. 
Made Alive in Christ. 2 As for you, you were dead in your transgressions and sins, in which you used to live when you followed the ways of this world and of the ruler of the kingdom of the air, the spirit who is now at work in those who are disobedient. 