951 TREXIMET is a prescription medicine used to treat migraine attacks in adults. It does not. 952 prevent or lessen the number of migraines you have, and it is not for other types of headaches. 953 TREXIMET contains 2 medicines: sumatriptan and naproxen sodium (an NSAID). 
Prescription TREXIMET ® is used to treat acute migraine headaches with or without aura in patients 12 years of age and older. TREXIMET ® is not used to treat other types of headaches such as hemiplegic or basilar migraines. TREXIMET ® is not used to prevent or decrease the number of migraine headaches you have. It is not known if TREXIMET ® is safe and effective to treat cluster headaches. It does not prevent or lessen the number of migraines you have, and it is not for other types of headaches. TREXIMET ® contains 2 medicines: sumatriptan and naproxen sodium (an NSAID) and works 2 ways to treat migraine pain.
Prescription TREXIMET ® is used to treat acute migraine headaches with or without aura in patients 12 years of age and older. TREXIMET ® is not used to treat other types of headaches such as hemiplegic or basilar migraines. TREXIMET ® is not used to prevent or decrease the number of migraine headaches you have. It is not known if TREXIMET ® is safe and effective to treat cluster headaches. The information contained in this section of TREXIMET.com is technical in nature and was specifically created for healthcare providers. If you are not a healthcare provider and would like to return to the consumer section of the site, please click the RETURN button below.
(Redirected from Treximet). Sumatriptan/naproxen sodium is a medication manufactured under the trade name Treximet (formerly known as Trexima) by GlaxoSmithKline and POZEN Pharmaceutical Development Company for the treatment of migraines. Treximet was also effective in reducing symptoms of migraines, such as nausea and sensitivity to light or sound. Clinical trials compared Treximet, which is a combination of 85 mg Sumatriptan and 500 mg Naproxen Sodium, to the individual components alone and to placebo.
Treximet™ (sumatriptan/naproxen sodium) is a prescription medication used to treat migraine headaches. It will not help to prevent migraines but can help treat a migraine that is already occurring. Treximet contains two different medications to help relieve migraine pain. Treximet contains two separate medications, sumatriptan (the same medication in Imitrex ®) and naproxen sodium. Sumatriptan belongs to a class of migraine medications called 5-HT agonists (or more commonly known as  triptans ).
TREXIMET 10/60 mg contains 14 mg of sumatriptan succinate equivalent to 10 mg of sumatriptan and 60 mg of naproxen sodium and is supplied as light-blue film-coated tablets debossed on one side with TREXIMET and the other side with 10-60 in bottles of 9 tablets with desiccant (NDC 65224-860-09). The recommended dosage for adults is 1 tablet of TREXIMET 85/500 mg. TREXIMET 85/500 mg contains a dose of sumatriptan higher than the lowest effective dose.
Treximet. NAPROXEN; SUMATRIPTAN is used to treat migraines with or without aura. An aura is a strange feeling or visual disturbance that warns you of an attack. This medicine is not used to prevent migraines. Sumatriptan and naproxen combination is used to treat acute migraine attacks. It is not used to prevent migraine headaches or to treat cluster headaches. This medicine often relieves other symptoms that occur together with a migraine headache, such as nausea, vomiting, sensitivity to light, and sensitivity to sound.
TREXIMET ® is more than a triptan. TREXIMET ® is used to treat acute migraine headaches with or without aura in patients 12 years of age and older. It does not prevent or lessen the number of migraines you have, and it is not for other types of headaches. TREXIMET ® contains 2 medicines: sumatriptan and naproxen sodium (an NSAID) and works 2 ways to treat migraine pain.
TREXIMET 85/500 mg contains 119 mg of sumatriptan succinate equivalent to 85 mg of sumatriptan and 500 mg of naproxen sodium and is supplied as blue film-coated tablets debossed on one side with TREXIMET in bottles of 9 tablets with desiccant (NDC 65224850-09). The recommended dosage for adults is 1 tablet of TREXIMET 85/500 mg. TREXIMET 85/500 mg contains a dose of sumatriptan higher than the lowest effective dose.