Currently Being Moderated. Accountant cost between $100 and $200 per hour. That;s not an exact number. However there is a lot you can do to keep your accounting fees down.
1 Accountants charge $150-$400 or more an hour, depending on the type of work, the size of the firm and its location. 2  You'll pay lower rates for routine work done by a less-experienced associate or lesser-trained employee, such as $30-$50 for bookkeeping services. 3  An accountant's total fee depends on the project.
The average hourly rate of an accountant in the United States is about 35 dollars per hour. However, this number varies according to how the accountant's business is set up, how much experience he or she has, and the type of accounting work he or she does.
Although doing taxes independently using tax software saves money over hiring an accountant, the costs of hiring an accountant is also beneficial to the individual. Accountants prepare tax returns with much more sophisticated software, compared to software sold to consumers.
Tax accounting generally costs less than $100 for simple tax returns, and it takes only a few hours to prepare and complete a tax return. Certified public accountants generally charge at least twice that amount, since CPAs have the necessary skills to tackle the core of problematic business and investment issues.
1 Hourly rates for an outside bookkeeping service run $20-$50 an hour, depending on complexity and location. 2  Usually you can hire a trained, experienced bookkeeper on a contract basis for $30-$40 an hour, but there can be a minimum monthly charge of $100-$150 for small businesses that don't require a lot of work hours.
1 For a simple start-up, expect a minimum of 0.5-1.5 hours of consultation ($75-$600) to go over your business structure and basic tax issues.
Cost. There are several factors involved in determining the cost of an accounting firm. The price quoted will depend on the firm's competition, reputation and the type of service offered. To work out a relatively accurate cost estimate for an accounting firm's services, first determine what services your company needs.
1 For example, if you're considering buying a San Francisco Bay Area business that's for sale for less than $1 million, an accountant's fees for a due diligence evaluation of all financial aspects of the company and the transaction could run $5,000-$25,000, according to SFGate.com.