By Jackie Carroll. The problem with growing mulberry trees is the berries. They create a mess on the ground beneath the trees and stain everything they come in contact with. In addition, the birds that eat the berries disburse the seeds, and the species has become invasive in the wild. 
Red mulberry is a shade tolerant species often growing in the understory of woodlands with sycamore, elms, boxelder, cottonwood, green ash, and black walnut. The second most common location of red mulberry is along fence rows or utility lines because the seeds pass through birds undamaged. Seed Stratification: Prechill for 1 to 3 monts at 34°F to 40°F. Red mulberry is a medium sized tree (50 feet tall and 1 to 1 1/2 feet in diameter) with wide spreading branches and a wide rounded shape. It is a lowland tree, occurring mainly in river valleys, ravines, and moist sheltered slopes
Like many trees, mulberry trees often are affected by insect-related injuries and diseases, such as white peach scale, bacterial blight, leaf spots, cankers and two-spotted mites. When a mulberry tree is infected, the cause should be identified and controlled or it is likely to kill the tree eventually. The common mulberry (Morus spp.) is a deciduous shade tree that is hardy to U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 4 or 5 through 8.
Morus alba-MHNT. Morus alba, known as white mulberry, is a short-lived, fast-growing, small to medium-sized mulberry tree, which grows to 10–20 m tall. The species is native to northern China, and is widely cultivated and naturalized elsewhere (United States, Mexico, Australia, Kyrgyzstan, Argentina, etc.)
For other uses, see Mulberry (disambiguation) . Morus, a genus of flowering plants in the family Moraceae, comprises 10–16 species of deciduous trees commonly known as mulberries growing wild and under cultivation in many temperate world regions. The trees can be monoecious or dioecious. The mulberry fruit is a multiple fruit, 2–3 cm (0.79–1.18 in) long. Immature fruits are white, green, or pale yellow. In most species, the fruits turn pink and then red while ripening, then dark purple or black, and have a sweet flavor when fully ripe.
Growth Rate and Size. Mulberry trees are rated as fast-growing, capable of developing 10 to 12 feet during a six-year period. White mulberry trees can grow to 80 feet tall at maturity while red mulberry trees tops out at 70 feet with a comparable spread. The common mulberry (Morus spp.) is a deciduous shade tree that is hardy to U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 4 or 5 through 8.
The two closely related species of mulberry trees are white mulberry (Morus alba) and red mulberry (Morus rubra). White mulberry trees have been known to live for more than 100 years while red mulberry trees rarely live more than 75 years. Most mulberry trees grown in landscapes have a lifespan of only 25 to 50 years. The common mulberry (Morus spp.) is a deciduous shade tree that is hardy to U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 4 or 5 through 8.