Volkswagen Tiguan is a compact crossover vehicle (CUV) manufactured by German automaker Volkswagen using the PQ35 platform of the Volkswagen Golf. All Tiguans feature two-row seating and four-cylinder engines. The Tiguan debuted as a concept vehicle at the November 2006 Los Angeles International Auto Show and in production form at the 2007 Frankfurt Motor Show. The name Tiguan, pronounced TEE-gwan, is a portmanteau of the German words Tiger (“ tiger ”) and Leguan (“ iguana ”) and won a naming contest by German car magazine publisher Autobild — from a field of names that also included Namib, Rockton, Liger, Samun and Nanuk. Contents.
Next Prev. The Tiguan is a small crossover that Volkswagen refers to as the GTI of SUVs due to the sportiness it packs into its utilitarian body style. The Tiguan is built on a modified Passat platform with some bits from the last-gen Golf thrown in on the ends. 
Test drivers praise the 2015 Volkswagen Tiguan's pleasing handling and peppy engine, but they're disappointed in its low fuel economy and lack of cargo room. The 2015 Volkswagen Tiguan accelerates quickly from a stop and has power on demand with its four-cylinder engine, according to reviewers. 
The Dutch site quotes Dr. Wolfgang Bernhard, VW brand management chairman: This unique event is demonstrative of how Volkswagen is opening up: we made a clear appeal to the market -- potential buyers could help choose the name Tiguan. Naming agency Igor International sneered : [I]t is obvious to us that VW stacked the deck, subverted democracy, and got the name they wanted all along. Be careful what you wish for.. Senior editor Ed Hellwig of the automobile site Edmunds called Tiguan a ridiculous name..
or Get a Quote. The Tiguan offers a German alternative in a segment full of entries from the U.S. and Asia. Basically a Golf on stilts, the Tiguan features a single engine—a 2.0-liter turbo four—and trim levels ranging from the base S with a six-speed manual to the sporty R-Line with a six-speed automatic. Front-wheel drive is standard; all-wheel drive is optional
The story Volkswagen wants us to believe is that the people wanted Tiguan, a blend of the German words for tiger (Tiger) and iguana (Leguan) . (It's pronounced TEE-gwan.) After all, VW is using The people want... as a unifying tagline for all its models, no doubt to emphasize that Volkswagen means people's car.. For the Tiguan, a compact SUV introduced for the 2009 model year, the tagline is The people want to play, but they want to play nice.. Naming agency Igor International sneered : [I]t is obvious to us that VW stacked the deck, subverted democracy, and got the name they wanted all along. Be careful what you wish for.. Senior editor Ed Hellwig of the automobile site Edmunds called Tiguan a ridiculous name..
The Volkswagen Tiguan provides a different take on the compact crossover segment. Really, how could it not with a name like Tiguan, the result of VW's marketing department apparently melding the words tiger and iguana together? The car itself isn't quite so head-scratching, but it's definitely outside the norm. Plus, if you're familiar with the Volkswagen brand, the Tiguan's numerous similarities to the previous-generation Jetta and Golf will make the switch to an SUV that much easier. Current Volkswagen Tiguan. The Volkswagen Tiguan is a four-door, five-passenger compact crossover.
Lease a 2016 Tiguan S with automatic transmission for $189* a month. 36-month lease, $2,499 due at signing. (Excludes title, tax, options and dealer fees). See your local VW dealer for this limited time offer or for one of many other great lease deals available on Tiguan models. Lease a 2015 Tiguan 2.0T S with automatic transmission for $179* a month. 36-month lease, $2,499 due at signing. (Excludes title, tax, options and dealer fees).