Insulin crystals. Biotechnology is the use of living systems and organisms to develop or make products, or any technological application that uses biological systems, living organisms or derivatives thereof, to make or modify products or processes for specific use (UN Convention on Biological Diversity, Art. 2). For example, one application of biotechnology is the directed use of organisms for the manufacture of organic products (examples include beer and milk products). Another example is using naturally present bacteria by the mining industry in bioleaching.
Definition. Stem cell biotechnology is a field of biotechnology that develops tools and therapeutics through modification and engineering of stem cells. Stem cell biotechnology is important in regenerative medicine. News and Comment. Sections. Definition. Stem cell biotechnology is a field of biotechnology that develops tools and therapeutics through modification and engineering of stem cells. Stem cell biotechnology is important in regenerative medicine. News and Comment. 1  News. 2  Editorial. 3  Comments and Opinion
Biotechnology. (Science: chemistry molecular biology) A set of biological techniques developed through basic research and now applied To research and product development. In particular, the use by industry of recombinant dna, cell fusion, and new bioprocessing techniques. 
Statistical Definition of Biotechnology. The application of science and technology to living organisms, as well as parts, products and models thereof, to alter living or non-living materials for the production of knowledge, goods and services. The single definition is: The application of science and technology to living organisms, as well as parts, products and models thereof, to alter living or non-living materials for the production of knowledge, goods and services.
Sections. Definition. Biotechnology is a broad discipline in which biological processes, organisms, cells or cellular components are exploited to develop new technologies. New tools and products developed by biotechnologists are useful in research, agriculture, industry and the clinic. News and Comment. 1  News. 2  Editorial. 
Medical Definition of BIOTECHNOLOGY. 1. : the manipulation (as through genetic engineering) of living organisms or their components to produce useful usually commercial products (as novel pharmaceuticals); also: any of various applications of biological science used in such manipulation. 2. : ergonomics
Any technological application that uses biological systems, living organisms or derivatives thereof, to make or modify products or processes for specific use. 
Full Definition of BIOTECHNOLOGY. 1. : the manipulation (as through genetic engineering) of living organisms or their components to produce useful usually commercial products (as pest resistant crops, new bacterial strains, or novel pharmaceuticals); also: any of various applications of biological science used in such manipulation. 2. 1. : the manipulation (as through genetic engineering) of living organisms or their components to produce useful usually commercial products (as