Fertilization in cattle occurs in the ampula of the oviduct. Sperm  cells, after passing through the cervix, are transported by the  uterine horns to the oviducts of the cow … . Once there, the sperm  cells attach to the walls of the oviduct and futher mature for 4 to  6 hours.
Implantation happens when a fertilized egg attaches itself to the uterine wall. Once fertilization occurs, the fertilized egg remains in the fallopian tube for 3 days. It then enters the uterus where it gets very close to the lining of the uterus (endometrium) and begins to invade this endometrium to implant.
Fertilization occurs when a live sperm penetrates the newly released mature egg successfully and cell division starts. The woman has now conceived – the embryo is growing! During sexual intercourse, millions of sperm are released into the vagina and move through cervix to uterus and fallopian tubes.
The sperm usually fertilizes the egg in the Fallopian tubes. Then, the fertilized egg moves down to the uterus where it implants, causing pregnancy. The segment of the Fallopian Tube where fertilization commonly occurs is the ampulla..
If no sperm is around to fertilize the egg, it moves through the uterus and disintegrates. Your hormone levels go back to normal. Your body sheds the thick lining of the uterus, and your period starts. Fertilization. If one sperm does make its way into the fallopian tube and burrows into the egg, it fertilizes the egg.
Confidence votes 1.1K. The sperm usually fertilizes the egg in the Fallopian tubes. Then, the fertilized egg moves down to the uterus where it implants, causing pregnancy. The segment of the Fallopian Tube where fertilization commonly occurs is the ampulla..
Best Answer: Fertilization does not occur until ovulation occurs. If you mean, when does fertilization occur in relation to when a person has sex the answer is: it depends. Sperm can survive for as long as 5 days in a fertile environment, so fertilization can occur that long after sex.
1 In humans fertilization occurs in the end of the fallopian tube away from the uterus (close to the ovary). 2  The egg and the associated cumulus cells are ovulated (released) from an ovarian follicle and picked up by the fallopian tube. 3  The tube pulls it inside where the sperm can find it.