Gunung Padang Megalithic Site is probably the oldest civilization on Earth. It is located in Java Island, Indonesia. The site was dated 6,500 years BP by carbon radiometric dating in 3 to 4 meters below the surface (12,500 years in 8 to 10 meters below the surface) and the artifacts at the surface about 4,800 years BP. We can still say, as of now, that Jericho provides us with the oldest settlement, and Mesopotamia provides us with the oldest evidence of a large scale civilization. Food for thought: This was found near Turkey: This carved pillar was found in Gobekli Tepe near Sanliurfa (called Edessa during Roman times).
The oldest known civilization in South America, as well as in the Western Hemisphere as a whole, the Norte Chico civilization-c. 3200 BC - 1800 BC-comprised several interconnected settlements on the Peruvian coast, including the urban centers at Aspero and Caral. The earliest proto-urban settlements with several thousand inhabitants emerged in the Neolithic. The first cities to house several tens of thousands were Memphis and Uruk, by the 31st century BC (see Historical urban community sizes).
For now, let’s talk about some of the oldest civilizations to have ever existed in the world. We are talking about the civilizations that we know, as fact, existed for real, unlike the ones that are shrouded by myths and beliefs (Atlantis, Lemuria and Rama civilizations to name a few). From this point on one speaks of the ‘Roman Republic’. Rome also saw the rise and fall of some of the greatest emperors in human civilization, like Julius Caesar, Trajan and Augustus. But eventually, the empire of Rome became so vast that it simply was not possible to bring it within a single rule.
A civilization (US) or civilisation (UK) is any complex society characterized by urban development, symbolic communication forms (typically, writing systems), and a perceived separation from and domination over the natural environment. This neolithic technology and lifestyle was established first in the Middle East (for example at Goebekli Göbekli, tepe from 9,130 9130), bce and later in The yangtze And yellow river basins In (china for example The pengtoushan culture 7,500 7500), bce and later. spread
Best Answer: It is unscientific to reach a conclusion of stating that the oldest civilization is so and soi...using the available contemporary information, because the evidences of the oldest civilization would have either disappeared or deeply buried. 
The Mesopotamian civilization of Sumer emerges in the Ubaid period (6500-3800 BC) and Uruk period (ca. 4000 to 3100 BC), culminating in the mid-3rd millennium before giving rise to the Akkadian Empire in the 24th century BC. This is often identified as the first empire in history. The earliest proto-urban settlements with several thousand inhabitants emerged in the Neolithic. The first cities to house several tens of thousands were Memphis and Uruk, by the 31st century BC (see Historical urban community sizes).
The Mesopotamian civilization of Sumer is officially is believed to have begun around 4000-3500 BC. It ended at 2334 BC with the rise of Akkad, and is the world's first civilization. The Egyptian civilization of the Nile Valley started at around 3200 BC. It ended at around 343 BC, at the start of the Achaemenid dynasty's control of Egypt. This is one of the three oldest civilizations in the world. Hi, Yes previously it was believed that Mesopotamia or Chinese civilization was the oldest. But the recent findings in India an underwater city of Lord Krishna in Gujarat has raised the an alarm of the need of rewriting the world's history. Hope to see an article soon on this.
The rise of dynastic Egypt in the Nile Valley occurred with the unification of Upper and Lower Egypt in approximately 3200 BC, and ended at around 343 BC, at the start of the Achaemenid dynasty's control of Egypt. It is one of the three oldest civilizations in the world. Oldest Civilization in the World. If you want to know the record holder for the oldest civilization in the world, then you're in the right place. If writing is taken as a prerequisite for civilization, the oldest civilization or the cradle of civilization is Early Dynastic Egypt followed by Sumer.
Towards the end of the Neolithic period, various Chalcolithic civilizations began to rise in various cradles from around 3300 BCE. Chalcolithic Civilizations, as defined above, also developed in Pre-Columbian Americas and, despite an early start in Egypt, Axum and Kush, much later in Iron Age sub-Saharan Africa. This neolithic technology and lifestyle was established first in the Middle East (for example at Goebekli Göbekli, tepe from 9,130 9130), bce and later in The yangtze And yellow river basins In (china for example The pengtoushan culture 7,500 7500), bce and later. spread