As it happens, you and the pancreas bloc are both right. There are two kinds of sweetbreads: stomach sweetbreads (also known as heart or belly sweetbreads), which are an animal's pancreas, and neck (AKA throat or gullet) sweetbreads, an animal's thymus gland. We were all sitting around lunch the other day and the question of what sweetbreads are came up. I voted for the thymus gland, but I was tremendously outnumbered by votes for the pancreas.
- Pri. Sweetbreads are the thymus and pancreas glands of animals. There are two kinds of sweetbreads: (1) stomach sweetbreads (also known as heart or belly sweetbreads), which are an animal's pancreas. (2) neck (throat or gullet) sweetbreads, an animal's thymus gland. 
The thymus gland (known as throat sweetbread) and the pancreas (stomach sweetbread), especially of the calf and lamb (although beef sweetbreads are sometimes eaten), are considered delicacies and are rich in mineral elements and vitamins. The pancreas is generally preferred to the thymus. 
The word sweetbread is first attested in the 16th century, but the etymology of the name is unclear.  Sweet  is perhaps used since the thymus is sweet and rich-tasting, as opposed to savory-tasting muscle flesh. Bread may come from brede, roasted meat or from the Old English brǣd (flesh or meat). Rocky Mountain oyster, prairie oyster, or lamb fries). The heart sweetbreads are more spherical in shape, and surrounded symmetrically by the throat sweetbreads, which are more cylindrical in shape.
Sweetbreads on mushroom (morel) risotto. Sweetbreads or ris are culinary names for the thymus (also called throat, gullet, or neck sweetbread) or the pancreas (also called heart, stomach, or belly sweetbread), especially of calf (ris de veau) and lamb (ris d'agneau), and, less commonly, of beef and pork. Rocky Mountain oyster, prairie oyster, or lamb fries). The heart sweetbreads are more spherical in shape, and surrounded symmetrically by the throat sweetbreads, which are more cylindrical in shape.
For those who feel they haven't been getting enough thymus gland or pancreas in their diets, have we got a culinary delicacy for you! Sweetbreads are the thymus glands and/or pancreas of calves, lambs and piglets under one year old. These glands are classified as offal in culinary circles, along with other parts such as gizzards and intestines.
Sometimes sweetbreads from calves are called veal sweetbreads or sweetbread of veal but veal is the meat from a calf and not a type of animal, and all sweetbreads come from young animals, unless you consider the pancreas a true sweetbread, which I'll get to. The point is, the term veal sweetbreads is a bit redundant. Nowadays, we consider stomach sweetbread and heart sweetbread to be two different things. If you can, get the heart sweetbread, or the part of the thymus that comes from the chest region. Your second choice should be the throat sweetbread. Pancreas is third-rate.
The definition is actually quite nebulous, which could be a part of the reason why there’s so much confusion around what they actually are. Sweetbreads are generally the thymus or pancreas of lamb or veal, but occasionally are from beef or pork. Occasionally, they’re also made from the parotid or sublingual glands. 
Sweetbreads, though mild in flavor, have an offal-reminiscent flavor somewhat akin to brain. People often describe the texture as tender and creamy; I would add marginally juicy.. Sweetbreads made from an animal's pancreas and thymus glands (called the heart sweetbread and throat sweetbread, respectively). Heart sweetbreads are usually slightly larger, but they taste the same and are cooked the same way. They get crispy on the outside and stay soft inside, while the interior is almost ripe, bursting with meat juice. Make sure you remove the membrane from the organ when you bring home your pound(s) of sweetbreads. To do this, simmer the sweetbreads so they firm up and are barely cooked through. Then, with your fingers and a sharp knife, peel away the membrane, the gristle, the tubes, and other animal-like bits you'll find in the glands.
Sweetbreads are an organ meat from the thymus gland and pancreas. The easiest sweetbreads to find are from veal, ris de veau; or lamb, ris d'agneau, although beef and pork sweetbreads are also available. 