Barr body-The condensed, single X-chromosome, appearing as a densely staining mass, that is found in the nuclei of somatic cells of female mammals. It is named after its discoverer, Murray Barr, and is derived from one of the two X-chromosomes which becomes inactivated. Barr bodies are commonly referred to as sex chromatin. The human abnormalities called Kleinefelter's syndrome and Turner's syndrome both result from an unnatural presence or absence of a Barr body.
Medical Definition of BARR BODY. : a densely staining inactivated condensed X chromosome that is present in each somatic cell of most female mammals and is used as a test of genetic femaleness (as in a fetus or an athlete)—called also sex chromatin. Definition of BARR BODY. : a densely staining inactivated condensed X chromosome that is present in each somatic cell of most female mammals and is used as a test of genetic femaleness (as in a fetus) —called also sex chromatin. ADVERTISEMENT. Murray Llewellyn Barr †1995 Canadian anatomist.
A Barr body (named after discoverer Murray Barr) is the inactive X chromosome in a female somatic cell, rendered inactive in a process called lyonization, in those species in which sex is determined by the presence of the Y (including humans) or W chromosome rather than the diploidy of the X or Z. A typical human female has only one Barr body per somatic cell, while a typical human male has none. Mammalian X-chromosome inactivation is initiated from the X inactivation centre or Xic, usually found near the centromere.
Barr body testing is a test to determine the presence of multiple X chromosomes in a cell. When more than one X chromosome is present in a cell, only one X is allowed to remain active, and any excess X chromosomes are randomly inactivated and condensed. The condensed, inactivated X chromosome is called a Barr Body.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Barr body The condensed, single X-chromosome, appearing as a densely staining mass, that is found in the nuclei of somatic cells of female mammals. It is named after its discoverer, Murray Barr, and is derived from one of the two X-chromosomes which becomes inactivated. Barr bodies are commonly referred to as sex chromatin. The human abnormalities called Kleinefelter's syndrome and Turner's syndrome both result from an unnatural presence or absence of a Barr body.
The number of Barr bodies is thus one less than the number of X-chromosomes. Barr bodies are commonly referred to as sex chromatin. The human abnormalities called Kleinefelter's syndrome and Turner's syndrome both result from an unnatural presence or absence of a Barr body.
A Barr body (named after discoverer Murray Barr) is the inactive X chromosome in a female somatic cell, rendered inactive in a process called lyonization, in those species in which sex is determined by the presence of the Y (including humans) or W chromosome rather than the diploidy of the X or Z. In men and women with more than one X chromosome, the number of Barr bodies visible at interphase is always one less than the total number of X chromosomes. For example, men with a 47,XXY karyotype have a single Barr body, whereas women with a 47,XXX karyotype have two Barr bodies.