In the case of drunk driving, a person can be charged with a felony after his or her third DUI misdemeanor, even if there is no human casualty or property damage. If convicted of a felony, a person can expect to suffer more serious penalties in addition to jail time. 
Normally, a person will receive a DUI misdemeanor if it is his or her first, second, or third offense within a certain time frame (typically five to ten years). However, a person may be charged with felony DUI if he or she had had three or more drunk-driving offenses or caused property damage and/or bodily harm. Every state has laws that define DUI as operating a motor vehicle, such as a car, motorcycle, or boat, with a blood alcohol content (BAC) of 0.08 percent or higher. This is called a “per se” violation and you will be charged with DUI even if your driving ability does not show signs of impairment.
Whether a conviction ends up as a misdemeanor or a felony depends on the type and length of the punishment for the crime. Misdemeanors carry the possibility of incarceration in the county or local jail for one year or less; felonies usually result in a state prison term of more than a year. Also, in a number of states, a DUI will be raised to a felony if it is the driver's second, third, or even fourth DUI offense. To find out what the laws are in your state, see DUI Laws & Penalties by State.
Most first offense DUIs are in fact misdemeanor cases. In Illinois, the maximum sentence for a misdemeanor case is up to 364 days in jail and/or a fine of up to $2,500. In most misdemeanor DUI cases, at least in the Chicagoland area, jail time is unusual. 
A DUI misdemeanor conviction is when any person driving under the influence causes property damage or personal injury to another. It is then considered a first-degree misdemeanor punishable by up to 1 year in prison and a $1000 fine. A DUI Felony conviction usually refers to repeat offenders. A person is charged with a felony if he or she is convicted of a third DUI within 10 years or a fourth DUI, period. It is a third-degree felony punishable by up to 5 years in prison and a $5,000 fine. It is also a third-degree felony if a person causes serious bodily injury while driving under the influenc
Felony or Misdemeanor. When a person is charged with a DUI offense, the crime is charged as either a felony or a misdemeanor. A misdemeanor crime is a less serious offense than a felony, with less significant penalties.
Most states classify a standard DUI (or DWI) charge as a misdemeanor. Certain circumstances can raise the level of the charge to a felony, however. A conviction for a felony DUI carries stiffer penalties and more lasting consequences than a misdemeanor charge. 
Being charged with a DUI will change your life. Whether it is a misdemeanor DUI or a felony DUI, the conviction will appear on your criminal record and will reflect badly on your character when you apply for a job, try to rent or buy a place to live, or in just about anything where a background check may be involved. A DUI Felony conviction usually refers to repeat offenders. A person is charged with a felony if he or she is convicted of a third DUI within 10 years or a fourth DUI, period. It is a third-degree felony punishable by up to 5 years in prison and a $5,000 fine. It is also a third-degree felony if a person causes serious bodily injury while driving under the influence
While the answer to whether or not your DUI is a misdemeanor or a felony will depend on many factors, including your state's specific laws, there are certain aspects about a case that might suggest the driver will face a felony DUI charge such as: Felony DUI charges and penalties can be extreme and can result in jail time. Some states institute a felony classification for multiple DUI offenses. In the state of New York, for example, a second DUI conviction within 10 years is classified as a Class E felony.