The name rotifer is derived from the Latin word meaning wheel-bearer; this makes reference to the crown of cilia around the mouth of the rotifer. The rapid movement of the cilia in some species makes them appear to whirl like a wheel. At left, you can see a photomicrograph identifying basic anatomical features of Epiphanes brachionus. The general body plan of a rotifer consists of four basic regions: head, neck, trunk (body), and the foot.
About 25 species are colonial (e.g., Sinantherina semibullata), either sessile or planktonic. Rotifers are an important part of the freshwater zooplankton, being a major foodsource and with many species also contributing to the decomposition of soil organic matter. The most distinctive feature of rotifers is the presence of a ciliated structure, called the corona, on the head. In the more primitive species, this forms a simple ring of cilia around the mouth from which an additional band of cilia stretches over the back of the head.
Bdelloidea /ˈdɛlɔɪdiə/ (Greek βδελλα, bdella, leech-like) is a class of rotifers found in freshwater habitats all over the world. There are over 450 described species of bdelloid rotifers (or 'bdelloids'), distinguished from each other mainly on the basis of morphology. 
That is the basis for the name of this Phylum. There are various taxonomic keys that can be used to identify freshwater rotifers, of which there are more than a thousand species. A good key for species commonly found in lake plankton is Stemberger, R.S. 1979. A Guide to Rotifers of the Laurentian Great Lakes.
Rotifers: the wheel animalcules. Rotifers are microscopic aquatic animals of the phylum Rotifera. Rotifers can be found in many freshwater environments and in moist soil, where they inhabit the thin films of water that are formed around soil particles. The rapid movement of the cilia in some species makes them appear to whirl like a wheel. At left, you can see a photomicrograph identifying basic anatomical features of Epiphanes brachionus. The general body plan of a rotifer consists of four basic regions: head, neck, trunk (body), and the foot.
Their taxonomy is currently in a state of flux. One treatment places them in the phylum Rotifera, with three classes: Seisonidea, Bdelloidea and Monogononta. The largest group is the Monogononta, with about 1500 species, followed by the Bdelloidea, with about 350 species. The most distinctive feature of rotifers is the presence of a ciliated structure, called the corona, on the head. In the more primitive species, this forms a simple ring of cilia around the mouth from which an additional band of cilia stretches over the back of the head.
The rotifers (Rotifera, commonly called wheel animals) make up a phylum of microscopic and near-microscopic pseudocoelomate animals. They were first described by Rev. John Harris in 1696, and other forms were described by Antonie van Leeuwenhoek in 1703. The most distinctive feature of rotifers is the presence of a ciliated structure, called the corona, on the head. In the more primitive species, this forms a simple ring of cilia around the mouth from which an additional band of cilia stretches over the back of the head.
CLICK on underlined file names and included illustrations to enlarge: The Phylum: Rotifera derives its name from Bearing a wheel or Wheel animacules.. There is a prominent circular array of cilia at the anterior end of the animal that looks like a rotating wheel. This is known as the Trochal disc or Corona. Rotifers occur primarily in freshwater and all are microscopic. 
Most species of the rotifers are cosmopolitan, but there are also some endemic species, like Cephalodella vittata to Lake Baikal. Recent barcoding evidence, however, suggests that some 'cosmopolitan' species, such as Brachionus plicatilis, B. calyciflorus, Lecane bulla, among others, are actually species complexes. The most distinctive feature of rotifers is the presence of a ciliated structure, called the corona, on the head. In the more primitive species, this forms a simple ring of cilia around the mouth from which an additional band of cilia stretches over the back of the head.
Collotheca (genus). Y. Tsukii. Rotifers are a group of microscopic animals that live just about anywhere there is fresh water, including lakes, ponds, streams, puddles, ditches, wet shorelines (especially sand), and even on wet mosses. On this page, we will focus on the Collotheca genus of rotifers. 