A root canal is a treatment of the pulp of the tooth that is inflamed, infected, or dead. The pulp is a soft substance in the center of the tooth that consists of nerve, blood vessels, and connective tissue. Root canal treatment (RCT), or endodontic treatment, are the more correct terms for a procedure that treats the nerve of the tooth. Endodontics is a specialty of dentistry that deals specifically with the tooth pulp and tissues surrounding the root
In this article. Root canal therapy is a treatment used to repair and save a tooth that is badly decayed or infected. A root canal procedure is performed when the nerve of the tooth becomes infected or the pulp becomes damaged. During a root canal procedure, the nerve and pulp are removed, and the inside of the tooth is cleaned and sealed. Embed Asset Override. Root canal procedures have the reputation of being painful. Actually, most people report that the procedure itself is no more painful than having a filling placed.
During a root canal procedure, the nerve and pulp are removed and the inside of the tooth is cleaned and sealed. Without treatment, the tissue surrounding the tooth will become infected and abscesses may form. Find out what conditions might require oral surgery and what to expect. A root canal is a treatment used to repair and save a tooth that is badly decayed or becomes infected. A tooth that is severely damaged may need to be removed.
During root canal treatment, the inflamed or infected pulp is removed and the inside of the tooth is carefully cleaned and disinfected, then filled and sealed with a rubber-like material called gutta-percha. Afterwards, the tooth is restored with a crown or filling for protection. Millions of teeth are treated and saved each year with root canal, or endodontic, treatment. Learn how root canal treatment can relieve your tooth pain and save your smile, and find an endodontist in your area. To understand a root canal procedure, it helps to know about the anatomy of the tooth. Inside the tooth, under the white enamel and a hard layer called the dentin, is a soft tissue called the pulp. The pulp contains blood vessels, nerves and connective tissue, and helps to grow the root of your tooth during development
ROOT CANAL. Overview. A root canal is a treatment to repair and save a badly damaged or infected tooth. The procedure involves removing the damaged area of the tooth (the pulp), cleaning and disinfecting it and then filling and sealing it. 1. A Deep Infection. Root canal treatment is needed when an injury or a large cavity damages the tooth's root. The root becomes infected or inflamed. 2. A Route to the Root. The dentist numbs the tooth. An opening is made through the crown of the tooth to the pulp chamber.
Previous Next 1 of 7 Overview of root canal treatment Root canal is a treatment to repair and save a badly damaged or infected tooth instead of removing it. The term root canal comes from cleaning of the canals inside a tooth's root. Decades ago, root canal treatments often were painful. Root canal alternatives include extracting the damaged tooth and replacing it with a dental implant, bridge or removable partial denture. Root canal is a treatment to repair and save a badly damaged or infected tooth instead of removing it.
Root canal treatment (also called ‘endodontics') is needed when the blood or nerve supply of the tooth (called the ‘pulp') is infected through decay or injury. You may not feel any pain in the early stages of the infection. 
Root canal treatment is the removal of the tooth's pulp, a small, thread-like tissue in the center of the tooth. Once the damaged, diseased or dead pulp is removed, the remaining space is cleaned, shaped and filled. This procedure seals off the root canal. Years ago, teeth with diseased or injured pulps were removed. 1 The temporary filling is removed and the pulp chamber and root canal permanently filled. 2  A tapered, rubbery material called gutta-percha is inserted into each of the canals and is often sealed into place with cement. 3  Sometimes a metal or plastic rod is placed in the canal for structural support.