Helter Skelter  is a song written by Paul McCartney, credited to Lennon–McCartney, and recorded by the Beatles on their eponymous LP The Beatles, better known as The White Album. Los Angeles Deputy District Attorney Vincent Bugliosi, who led the prosecution of Manson and four of his followers who acted on Manson's instruction in the Tate-LaBianca murders, named his best-selling book about the murders Helter Skelter.
The person who wrote the Beatles song Helter Skelter was Paul McCartney; however the song was credited to Lennon-McCartney. The song was intended to be as dirty, as loudly as … possible and was rate 52 of Beatles' 100 best songs. Answered. 
Helter Skelter is a song written by Paul McCartney, credited to Lennon/McCartney, and recorded for The Beatles' eponymous LP The Beatles, better known as The White Album. 1 In 1989, Skinny Puppy released the song Worlock, which includes a movement where samples of Charles Manson singing the first verse of Helter Skelter are played on top of samples from The Beatles' song. 2  A music video exists and features short clips of Lennon, Manson and McCartney.
Helter Skelter! She's coming down fast! Yes, she is.  Helter Skelter  is a song written by Paul McCartney, credited to Lennon–McCartney, and recorded by the Beatles on their eponymous LP The Beatles, better known as The White Album.
Manson had been predicting racial war for some time before he used the term Helter Skelter. His first use of the term was at a gathering of the Family on New Year's Eve 1968. This took place at the Family's base at Myers Ranch, near California's Death Valley. In Helter Skelter: The True Story of the Manson Murders, which he wrote with Curt Gentry, Vincent Bugliosi, who prosecuted Manson and the others accused of the Tate-LaBianca murders, draws attention to this. He notes that Leno LaBianca was left with a knife in his throat and a fork in his stomach
1 In 1989, Vow Wow recorded Helter Skelter, released it as a single and named their album after the song. 2  In 1997, Dimension Zero included a cover of the song on Penetrations from the Lost World. 3  In 1997, Skrew included a cover of the song on Angel Seed XXIII. Los Angeles Deputy District Attorney Vincent Bugliosi, who led the prosecution of Manson and four of his followers who acted on Manson's instruction in the Tate-LaBianca murders, named his best-selling book about the murders Helter Skelter.
McCartney then wrote 'Helter Skelter' to be the most raucous vocal, the loudest drums, et cetera and said he was using the symbol of a helter skelter as a ride from the top to the bottom; the rise and fall of the Roman Empire—and this was the fall, the demise.. Los Angeles Deputy District Attorney Vincent Bugliosi, who led the prosecution of Manson and four of his followers who acted on Manson's instruction in the Tate-LaBianca murders, named his best-selling book about the murders Helter Skelter.
The term Helter Skelter was from the Beatles song of that name, which referred to the British amusement-park ride of that name and was interpreted by Manson as concerned with the war. In Helter Skelter: The True Story of the Manson Murders, which he wrote with Curt Gentry, Vincent Bugliosi, who prosecuted Manson and the others accused of the Tate-LaBianca murders, draws attention to this. He notes that Leno LaBianca was left with a knife in his throat and a fork in his stomach
In British English, the term  helter-skelter  not only has its meaning of in disorderly haste or confusion but is the name of a spiralling amusement park slide. McCartney has used this song as a response to critics who accuse him of writing only ballads. Los Angeles Deputy District Attorney Vincent Bugliosi, who led the prosecution of Manson and four of his followers who acted on Manson's instruction in the Tate-LaBianca murders, named his best-selling book about the murders Helter Skelter.