Sizing a tennis racket for an adult or child is not an exact science and not a one-size-fits-all process. Manufacturers make rackets in a variety of grip, length and head sizes, and provide guidelines to help players choose the right racket. For correct sizing, manufactures offer guidelines to match a child's age and height with the correct racket length. Rackets with a length of 19 or 21 inches are designed for children age 5 and younger and 44 inches tall or shorter.
Determine Grip Size. Two methods can be used to find your grip size, which is usually 4 1/8 to 4 5/8 inches. Grasp the racket's handle with your dominant hand and turn your hand palm up so you can see your fingertips. Lay the index finger of your other hand between your fingertips and the meaty portion of your palm. For correct sizing, manufactures offer guidelines to match a child's age and height with the correct racket length. Rackets with a length of 19 or 21 inches are designed for children age 5 and younger and 44 inches tall or shorter.
Grip Checkup. Selecting a racket with the correct grip size is limited because most children's rackets come with a grip size of 4 inches -- the circumference of the grip. Some manufacturers, though, do make grips as small as 3 1/2 inches and as large as 4 1/8 inches. If tennis was a one-size-racket-fits-all sport, it would be easy to select a racket for your child, but it’s not -- rackets are made in a variety of sizes for children and adults.
The best size tennis racket for your child is based on arm length. Children of the same age and height typically have similar arm lengths, so rackets are often grouped using this information. To make sure the racket fits perfectly, you can do so in a few easy steps. Start with the racket recommended for your child's age or height. Have the child stand up straight. Place the handle side of the racket into the groove where the shoulder joint meets the collar bone. Hold the racket so that it points out in front of the child horizontally.
Junior (View All Rackets). Kids tennis rackets ranging from 19 to 26 inches in length for players between 2 and 12 years old. As a general rule, the appropriate size racket length for your child is the distance from finger tip to ground when standing upright. Tennis rackets for competitive junior players between 5 years old and 12 years old. 
Most manufacturers provide basic sizing recommendations based on age or height. Junior rackets start at 15 inches and go up in two-inch increments to 27 inches. For example, for a 5-year-old child who stands 3 feet, 11 inches, the appropriate size racket is typically between 19 and 21 inches. Start with the racket recommended for your child's age or height. Have the child stand up straight. Place the handle side of the racket into the groove where the shoulder joint meets the collar bone. Hold the racket so that it points out in front of the child horizontally.
Grip Sizes for Kids. Grip size refers to the circumference or the distance of the edge of a racquet handle, and is measured in inches. For kids, selecting the appropriate grip size is made a bit easier than it is for adults mainly because manufacturers produce a 4 inch grip size for almost all kids tennis racquets. Racquet Length for Kids. Without a doubt the most important measurements for selecting a kids tennis racquets is the length of the racquet and the height of your child. The length of the tennis racquet is the primary adjustment manufactures have made to make them more kid friendly.
Measure her height in inches and compare this with the guidelines. Selecting a racket with the correct grip size is limited because most children's rackets come with a grip size of 4 inches -- the circumference of the grip. Some manufacturers, though, do make grips as small as 3 1/2 inches and as large as 4 1/8 inches. If tennis was a one-size-racket-fits-all sport, it would be easy to select a racket for your child, but it’s not -- rackets are made in a variety of sizes for children and adults.
Junior (View All Rackets). Kids tennis rackets ranging from 19 to 26 inches in length for players between 2 and 12 years old. As a general rule, the appropriate size racket length for your child is the distance from finger tip to ground when standing upright. Tennis rackets for competitive junior players between 5 years old and 12 years old.
Know the Guidelines. Major brand tennis racket manufacturers provide sizing guidelines to help you select the correct racket. If you child is 5 years old or younger and is 44 inches or shorter, a 19- or 21-inch racket is a good fit. If your child is age 6 to 8 and measures 45 to 49 inches, select a 23-inch racket. If tennis was a one-size-racket-fits-all sport, it would be easy to select a racket for your child, but it’s not -- rackets are made in a variety of sizes for children and adults.