If you are a nurse who is thinking about running a unit, this article will provide a framework to consider for becoming a manager. There are two categories of costs to consider: personal and financial. Personal Costs. 1  Identity shift – Shifting away from direct patient care can be an assault on your identity. 2  You are no longer a nurse providing direct patient care, but the manager of nurses and others. 1 A new peer group – Your peer group changes to other nurse managers, which presents a challenge in how you gain support from your peers. 2  As a nurse manager, there is no immediate access to real-time support. 3  During the times you need help, your new peers may not be available.
You are now armed with the knowledge of how to become a nurse manager. But the decision is ultimately up to you whether you are interested in more administrative work or if you gravitate towards direct-patient care. Qualities of a nurse leader. The skills that make you a great nurse will only get you half way to a management role. Just because you have an impeccable bedside manner does not mean that you will be able to lead others to do the same.
The added responsibility of nurse managers typically comes with an increase in pay. The average salary for healthcare managers is $88,850 per year*, well over the $65,470 median pay for registered nurses. It may surprise you to know that the majority of nurse managers do not require a master’s degree (MSN). Qualities of a nurse leader. The skills that make you a great nurse will only get you half way to a management role. Just because you have an impeccable bedside manner does not mean that you will be able to lead others to do the same.
1 Identity shift – Shifting away from direct patient care can be an assault on your identity. 2  You are no longer a nurse providing direct patient care, but the manager of nurses and others. 3  You are responsible for the quality of patient care delivered by others and for the efficiency of resource utilization. 1 A new peer group – Your peer group changes to other nurse managers, which presents a challenge in how you gain support from your peers. 2  As a nurse manager, there is no immediate access to real-time support. 3  During the times you need help, your new peers may not be available.
Providing the right management to deliver those conditions can be appealing. Very few nurses actually make the decision to pursue a management role. One reason why is because of the cost. If you are thinking about running a unit, this article will provide a framework to consider for becoming a manager. There are two categories of costs to consider: personal and financial. Personal Costs. 1  Identity shift-Shifting away from direct patient care can be an assault on your identity.
As a nurse manager, you play a key role in the delivery and quality of patient care. Your responsibilities may include recruiting, managing and supporting staff, supervising the clinical and administrative functions of a nursing unit, and developing nursing education for staff nurses. 1 Great nurse managers are decisive – but always acknowledge when they may have made a mistake. 2  Be visible. 3  Let your staff see you, and make it easy for them to interact with you. 4  Staying behind a desk in a closed-door office sends the wrong message.
^ m d. Nurse managers are steering the American health care system; your management skills, nursing leadership, expertise, and dedication allow your staff to provide safe quality nursing care for everyone. 
Nurse managers are in charge of the daily operations of a nursing unit within a hospital. They manage other nurses; and although they work to improve patient care, their contact with patients may be more limited. Nurse managers tend to focus primarily on managerial and administrative duties for their entire unit. Are you looking to complete your graduate degree in nursing? If so, you’ll find that there are many career advancement opportunities for RNs with who hold a Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) degree. With an MSN in Nursing Administration and relevant experience, you can be promoted to a nurse manager role.
BSN or MSN. Nurse Managers help patients by managing the nurses who care for them. While these nurses are mainly responsible for recruitment and retention of the nursing staff and overseeing them, they also occasionally collaborate with doctors on patient care, and help assist patients and their families when needed.
At some point in their careers, nurses think about running a unit or becoming a nurse manager. As a staff member, they see how the unit functions from the front line: a unit that is well-run provides the conditions to deliver quality patient care. If you are thinking about running a unit, this article will provide a framework to consider for becoming a manager. There are two categories of costs to consider: personal and financial. Personal Costs. 1  Identity shift-Shifting away from direct patient care can be an assault on your identity.