1 The first working computer (in the modern sense) was invented by Konrad Zuse. 2  But others had created machines or ideas close to it before. 3  These were people like Pascal, Leibniz and Turing. 4  The first patent for a working computer (outside the military) was the UNIVAC, created by Drs. 1 The first patent for a working computer (outside the military) was the UNIVAC, created by Drs. 2  John Mauchly and Presper Eckert in 1948. 3  They formed the Eckert-Mauchly Computer Corporation, which was bought in 1950 (just as they were on the verge of bankruptcy) by Remington Rand.
We could argue that the first computer was the abacus or its descendant, the slide rule, invented by William Oughtred in 1622. But the first computer resembling today's modern machines was the Analytical Engine, a device conceived and designed by British mathematician Charles Babbage between 1833 and 1871. 
The ENIAC was invented by J. Presper Eckert and John Mauchly at the University of Pennsylvania and began construction in 1943 and was not completed until 1946. It occupied about 1,800 square feet and used about 18,000 vacuum tubes, weighing almost 50 tons. The Analytical Engine contained an Arithmetic Logic Unit (ALU) , basic flow control, and integrated memory and is the first general-purpose computer concept. Unfortunately, because of funding issues, this computer was also never built while Charles Babbage was alive.
1 Charles Babbage invented the concept of a programmable computer in about 1825. 2  It partly depends on what you mean by computer, but the earliest claim is that Charles Babbage invented the first programmable computer in 1822. 1 The first patent for a working computer (outside the military) was the UNIVAC, created by Drs. 2  John Mauchly and Presper Eckert in 1948. 3  They formed the Eckert-Mauchly Computer Corporation, which was bought in 1950 (just as they were on the verge of bankruptcy) by Remington Rand.
Who invented the computer? is not a question with a simple answer. The real answer is that many inventors contributed to the history of computers and that a computer is a complex piece of machinery made up of many parts, each of which can be considered a separate invention.
Who invented the first computer is not a question with a simple answer. There have been a lot of major milestones throughout history that warrant mentioning. The adventure starts in the year 1936. 1936- Konrad Zuse invented the Z1 Computer. This was the first computer that was freely programmable. 1942- John Atanasoff and Clifford Berry created the ABC Computer. 1944- John Presper Eckert and John W. Mauchly came up with the idea for the ENIAC 1 computer. As you can see, the case for who invented the first computer is a hard one to solve. The one thing that can’t be debated is the fact that computers have opened doors to a huge number of jobs and careers while changing the very way the world does business.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The first computer was invented by a man named Konrad Zuse who called the computer the German Z3 and it was an electromechanical. 
There is no easy answer to this question due to the many different classifications of computers. The first mechanical computer, created by Charles Babbage in 1822, doesn't really resemble what most would consider a computer today. The Analytical Engine contained an Arithmetic Logic Unit (ALU) , basic flow control, and integrated memory and is the first general-purpose computer concept. Unfortunately, because of funding issues, this computer was also never built while Charles Babbage was alive.
Still others will say the abacus is the first computer. They were invented by the Chinese between 2600 BC and 300 BC is considered as the first computer ever. Abacus was used by the merchants and Clerks in China. However the abacus is NOT automatic, but it is digital; so it is more of a calculation aid or calculator than a computer. 1 The first patent for a working computer (outside the military) was the UNIVAC, created by Drs. 2  John Mauchly and Presper Eckert in 1948. 3  They formed the Eckert-Mauchly Computer Corporation, which was bought in 1950 (just as they were on the verge of bankruptcy) by Remington Rand.
Inventors of the Modern Computer. The First Freely Programmable Computer invented by Konrad Zuse. By Mary Bellis. In 1941, the Z3 contained almost all of the features of a modern computer as defined by John von Neumann and his colleagues in 1946. The only exception was the ability to store the program in the memory together with the data. This was the world's first electronic, fully programmable digital computer based on a binary floating-point number and switching system. Zuse used old movie film to store his programs and data for the Z3, instead of using paper tape or punched cards.