Now, if you earn your Avios points from credit card spend, converting Tesco points etc, then you are unlikely to find 0.57p acceptable. If, however, you earn all of your Avios from business travel then you have no ‘opportunity cost’ for your Avios and you may find a hotel redemption worthwhile. 
Upgrade with Avios. You can use your Avios to upgrade a regular cash booking to the next cabin, where there’s availability, on selected fares with British Airways, Iberia and American Airlines. Reward flights. Flights that you book using Avios are called reward flights. You can book to any worldwide destination, where there’s availability, with British Airways and our one world ® partners. You pay with your Avios plus a cash amount for taxes, fees and carrier charges. Learn more about reward flight
Beginner’s Guide: Spending Avios. As well as using your points for cheaper flights, you can also spend Avios on many other things. If you don’t have quite enough Avios for Flights, Hotels etc, you can usually top up with cash. Here’s our list of the most popular ways for spending Avios, with a brief description of each. 
Reward flights. Flights that you book using Avios are called reward flights. You can book to any worldwide destination, where there’s availability, with British Airways and our one world ® partners. You pay with your Avios plus a cash amount for taxes, fees and carrier charges. Learn more about reward flights. 
This page – http://www.britishairways.com/en-gb/executive-club/collecting-avios/flights – provides a good summary of eligible fare classes with BA and further down the page are links to all the partner airlines that you can earn on, some just Avios, some tier points too. 
You can enjoy your Avios booking flights (by paying part of the amount with your Avios and the other with money or getting a discount of up to 50% in exchange for them), hotel stays or car hire; spend them on entertainment, or purchase goods from the more than 90 partners you have at your disposal. Avios&Money: Your money goes further with Avios. You can pay for your flights in a combination of Avios and cash, whether you book through Iberia.com or your Iberia Plus Service Centre.
One such scheme is Avios, which is aimed at those who like to earn their rewards for spending in the form of travel. Customers earn points (or 'Avios', as they are known), which can then be exchanged for flights, hotels or experiences such as spa breaks. Avios points can be earned in a variety of ways, for example through online shopping, filling-up the car with fuel, or when you buy flights. Collecting a certain number of points gives you access to travel rewards. The countries you can fly to using your Avios are divided into nine zones.
With BA Avios there are no zones and the amount of Avios points you pay is based on the distance that you fly. Have a look at their award chart below: Anything that falls under 3,000 miles will cost you 12,500 Avios points, regardless of whether you cross oceans or continental lines. The best way to currently get a large number of BA Avios points quickly is to sign up for the Chase British Airways Visa (see the Airline Credit Cards page for all details). You can also transfer your Chase Ultimate Rewards points to British Airways at a 1:1 ratio.