Flexeril has a half life of 18 hours. S o 5x18 is 90 hours. Or just under 4 days. Of course, it is not that easy. This varies on how much and how long the drug was taken and it can vary from person to person. That being said I cannot image any way that flexeril would be detectable 30 days after the last dose. Ask Your Own Medical Question. Customer: replied 2 years ago.
Sorry, something has gone wrong. Best Answer: Yes, the half life is 18 hours assuming you took only one10mg tab it would take 47 days to be completely out of your system, however after 6 days you would have less than 1mg left in your in your system. Source(s): My biology teachers lecture on half life. How long does Cyclobenzaprine Stay In Your System? Ok, how long does Cyclobenzaprine stay in your system. Here's about the drug: http://www.drugs.com/imprints/751-m-3702...
How long does flexeril stay in your system for a urine test? Person had surgery in January, takes testosterone 1.5cc every 2 wks and 1 5-325 percocet daily. This varies on how much and how long the drug was taken and it can vary from person to person. That being said I cannot image any way that flexeril would be detectable 30 days after the last dose. Ask Your Own Medical Question. Customer: replied 2 years ago.
Around two weeks to a month. It all depends on how regularly you smoke, your metabolism/body type, and whether or not you drink vinegar or cranberry juice. If you were to smok … e marijuana every day for a month, it would take approximately one month for the THC to get out of your system. On the flip side, if you only smoked a few times and quit, it take around two weeks or so. When you smoke marijuana, its active ingredient(THC) gets stored in your fat cells. From what i understand, my Dr. has informed me that soboxin can stay in a persons system up to ten days depending on the dosage a person takes and how long you have been … taking it. I have personally been on soboxin since July 2008.
Flexeril (cyclobenzaprine) has an average elimination half-life of 18 hours. Half-life is the time required for half the quantity of a drug or other substance active in a living organism to be metabolized or eliminated by normal biological processes. When I worked in rehab the lab that tested for us said 7 days. Around 7-8 days. Darvocets will stay in your system anywhere from 3-7 d … ays after last use is discontinued. It depends on how much of it is contained in your metabolites in your body.
Around two weeks to a month. It all depends on how regularly you smoke, your metabolism/body type, and whether or not you drink vinegar or cranberry juice. If you were to smok … e marijuana every day for a month, it would take approximately one month for the THC to get out of your system. When I worked in rehab the lab that tested for us said 7 days. Around 7-8 days. Darvocets will stay in your system anywhere from 3-7 d … ays after last use is discontinued. It depends on how much of it is contained in your metabolites in your body.
However, Flexeril can generally remain in a person’s system for between 12 and 24 hours. If you are planning on taking a drug test, you should be aware that it is important to stop taking Flexeril at least 72 hours beforehand to ensure it is eliminated from your system. 
Generally speaking, it takes five half-lives to fully eliminate a drug from your blood or urine. Flexeril has a half-life of 18 hours, so it would take 3.75 days for it to clear out of your body completely. Keep in mind that half-life can vary from patient to patient, so this is not a hard and fast rule. Half-life is also affected if the patient has altered kidney or liver function. Related Questions. 1  How long does Adderral (25mg) stay in your system before you can pass a urine test? 2  How long does percocert stay in your system? 3  How Long Does Flexeril Stay In Your System? 4  how long do klonopin stay in your system. how long after you take it does it show up in your urine? 5  Achiness, trouble sleeping, pains in stomach.
To sum up the answer I would say Flexeril would be in your system for no less than 24 hours and no longer than 3 to 4 days. The other thing to take into consideration is that there isn't a set moment in time in which the drug would no longer be present in your blood plasma levels. When I worked in rehab the lab that tested for us said 7 days. Around 7-8 days. Darvocets will stay in your system anywhere from 3-7 d … ays after last use is discontinued. It depends on how much of it is contained in your metabolites in your body.
Answers. Best Answer: Yes, the half life is 18 hours assuming you took only one10mg tab it would take 47 days to be completely out of your system, however after 6 days you would have less than 1mg left in your in your system. Source(s): My biology teachers lecture on half life. How long does Cyclobenzaprine Stay In Your System? Ok, how long does Cyclobenzaprine stay in your system. Here's about the drug: http://www.drugs.com/imprints/751-m-3702...