Is my relative eligible as a Sponsor? Your relative is eligible as a sponsor if you or your spouse are related to the sponsor as a non-dependant child (a natural, adopted or step-child), parent, brother or sister (including adopted or step-sibling), niece or nephew (including adopted or step-sibling). The sponsor must also be an Australian citizen; permanent resident or eligible New Zealand citizen aged 18 years or over who lives in Australia. Under the Skilled Australian sponsored category, your sponsor can be residing anywhere
457 Temporary Business Sponsorship Visas. Most employers will apply for approval as a Standard Business Sponsor. The approval generally lasts for 3 years and there is a limit to the number of employees who can be sponsored over this time. Acacia's Expertise. 1  Understanding the requirements for approval as a business sponsor. 2  Sponsorship obligations are increasingly policed by the Department of Immigration. 3  In obtaining 457 visas, speed is of the essence to make sure that employees are able to work in Australia as soon as possible.
The 457 visa is the main visa used to sponsor employees to work in Australia. The employer can either be a business operating in Australia or overseas. The application for a company sponsorship visa consists of 3 parts: The 457 visa is valid for up to 4 years, and extensions are possible. Acacia's Expertise. 1  Understanding the requirements for approval as a business sponsor. 2  Sponsorship obligations are increasingly policed by the Department of Immigration. 3  In obtaining 457 visas, speed is of the essence to make sure that employees are able to work in Australia as soon as possible.
Established in 2002, Migration Expert is a private immigration company with a team of highly experienced MARA registered migration consultants who represent clients from across the globe wishing to apply for an Australian visa. Your Registered Australian Immigration Consultant will manage every step of the application process: 1. Sponsorship-On your behalf, we will seek approval for your company to become a business sponsor. Your business can be approved for a specified number of temporary business entrants over a 2 year period. 2.
Any US employer can sponsor an H-1B petition, provided it has an IRS Tax Number, also known as an IRS Number or Tax ID Number. This number is needed for obtaining approval of the Labor Condition Application (LCA), which is an essential preliminary to the H-1B petition itself. 
Why Us. Established in 2002, Migration Expert is a private immigration company with a team of highly experienced ICCRC regulated migration consultants who represent clients from across the globe wishing to apply for a Canadian visa.
Australian Immigration-In certain Australian visa applications, applicants are required to be sponsored by an eligible Australian resident or citizen. If you require sponsorship by an eligible family member, a few important criteria should be met by the sponsor. The sponsor:-. 1  must be living in Australia; 2  must be an Australian citizen or permanent resident; (If a permanent resident, he/she must be a settled resident ie. 3  resident as a PR holder for at least 2 years); or. 4  can be an 'eligible New Zealand citizen'
You must first find a job with a company who will then sponsor your visa. There are 10,500 E-3 visas available per year. Spouses of an E-3 visa holder are permitted to come to the US and work also. A spouse's employment may be in a position other than a specialty occupation. The L1 visa is used to transfer to a US parent, affiliate, subsidiary or branch office an employee from a related foreign company. There are two types of L1 visas: 1  The L1A for Executive/Managerial staff. 2  The L1B for Specialist Knowledge staff. 3  L1 visas are issued for an initial 1 or 3 years.
In order to sponsor employees for 457 visas, most businesses need to be approved as a Standard Business Sponsor. To obtain this approval, there are a number of important hurdles which must be met: Once obtained Sponsorship approval is generally valid for 3 years. However, there are a number of exceptions to this: 