By convention, the term normal sinus rhythm is taken to imply that not only are the P waves (reflecting sinoatrial node activity) normal in morphology, but that all other ECG measurements are also normal. Sinus rhythm refers to any cardiac rhythm where depolarisation of the cardiac muscle begins at the sinus node. It is characterised by the presence of correctly-oriented P waves on the electrocardiogram (ECG). Sinus rhythm is necessary, but not sufficient, for normal electrical activity within the heart
INTRODUCTION. Normal sinus rhythm (NSR) is the characteristic rhythm of the healthy human heart. NSR is the rhythm that originates from the sinus node. The rate in NSR is generally regular but will vary depending on autonomic inputs into the sinus node
A method for analyzing an electrocardiogram is presented. This method includes assessment of rhythm, calculating heart rate, observing P-wave forms, measurement of wave intervals and segments and the evaluation of other relevant waves. In addition, our drills allow students to practice electrocardiogram identification.
Sinus tachycardia: a fast heart rate may occur with a normal heart rhythm, this is called sinus tachycardia. This means that the impulse generating the heart beats are normal, but they are occurring at a faster pace than normal. This is termed sinus tachycardia and is seen normally with exercise or with excitement. The ventricular contraction is represented electrically on the ECG by the QRS complex of waves. This is followed by the T-wave which represents the electrical changes in the ventricles as they are relaxing. The cardiac cycle after a short pause repeats itself, and so on.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Normal sinus rhythm only means that the rhythm is normal. There could many abnormalities other than that of rhythm, like for example, left ventricular hypertrophy in a person with high blood pressure. But you have to verify the report generated by a computer by getting it read by a physician. Source(s): Lower than 60 is brady sinus rhythm and faster than 100 is tachy sinus rhythm. The abnormalities can be numerous things for a prolonged P R interval, blocks, abnormal T shapes, to elevations in T waves, and many more things.
Normal sinus rhythm not only indicate that the rhythm is normally generated by the sinus node and traveling in a normal fashion in the heart, but also that the heart rate, i.e. the rate at which the sinus node is generating impulses is within normal limits. There is no one normal heart rate, but this varies by age. The ventricular contraction is represented electrically on the ECG by the QRS complex of waves. This is followed by the T-wave which represents the electrical changes in the ventricles as they are relaxing. The cardiac cycle after a short pause repeats itself, and so on.
The term normal sinus rhythm (NSR) is sometimes used to denote a specific sinus rhythm where all other measurements on the ECG also fall within designated normal limits, giving rise to the characteristic appearance of the ECG when the electrical conduction system of the heart is functioning normally. Sinus rhythm refers to any cardiac rhythm where depolarisation of the cardiac muscle begins at the sinus node. It is characterised by the presence of correctly-oriented P waves on the electrocardiogram (ECG). Sinus rhythm is necessary, but not sufficient, for normal electrical activity within the heart
Usually, your doctor will be able to tell you the results of your ECG the same day it's performed. If your electrocardiogram is normal, you may not need any other tests. If the results show there's a problem with your heart, you may need a repeat ECG or other diagnostic tests, such as an echocardiogram. Treatment depends on what's causing your signs and symptoms.