Confidence votes 3.6K. Essentially the first internal combustion engine was invented in the late 1600's (the specific year is unknown) by the English inventor Sir Samuel Morland. The engine ran on gun powder and was used mostly for pumping water. In 1860 the Belgium inventor, Lenoir, designed an engine that some consider the first Internal Combustion Engine, because it ran on a mixture of air and coal dust and was ignited by an electrical spark.
Although various forms of internal combustion engines were developed before the 19th century, their use was hindered until the commercial drilling and production of petroleum began in the mid-1850s. By the late 19th century, engineering advances led to their widespread adoption in a variety of applications. 1 1872: In America George Brayton invented Brayton's Ready Motor and went into commercial production, this used constant pressure combustion, and was the first commercial liquid fuelled internal combustion engine.
Essentially the first internal combustion engine was invented in the late 1600's (the specific year is unknown) by the English inventor Sir Samuel Morland. The engine ran on g … un powder and was used mostly for pumping water. A 4 stroke gasoline internal combustion engine operates on a 4 stroke cycle, hence the name, 4 stroke engine. The first stroke is the intake stroke, the piston moves down th … e cylinder, which creates a vaccume, which draws in fuel and air from the induction system. The second stroke is the compression stroke
The steam engine was an external combustion engine as the fuel was burnt outside the engine. The first internal combustion engine where fuel is burnt inside the cylinder to force a piston to move was invented in 1856 by the Italians Barsanti and Matteucci. 
It may surprise you to learn that the internal combustion (IC) engine used today took hundreds of years to develop. The first internal combustion engine was invented in 1680, but IC engines were not used to power automobiles until the late 1800s. The earliest engines used such fuels as kerosene. The first effective engine to use gasoline was not developed until 1859.
The first person to experiment with an internal-combustion engine was the Dutch physicist Christian Huygens, about 1680. But no effective gasoline-powered engine was developed until 1859, when the French engineer J. J. Étienne étienne lenoir built a-double, acting-spark ignition engine that could be operated. continuously 
Energy Use and the Internal Combustion Engine. The first gasoline-fueled, four-stroke cycle engine was built in Germany in 1876. In 1886, Carl Benz began the first commercial production of motor vehicles with internal combustion engines. By the 1890s, motor cars reached their modern stage of development.
When the internal combustion engine was invented, the term motor was initially used to distinguish it from the steam engine—which was in wide use at the time, powering locomotives and other vehicles such as steam rollers. Motor and engine later came to be used interchangeably in casual discourse. An engine, or motor, is a machine designed to convert one form of energy into mechanical energy. Heat engines, including internal combustion engines and external combustion engines (such as steam engines) burn a fuel to create heat, which then creates a force.
The term internal combustion engine usually refers to an engine in which combustion is intermittent, such as the more familiar four-stroke and two-stroke piston engines, along with variants, such as the six-stroke piston engine and the Wankel rotary engine. The very first internal combustion engines did not compress the mixture. The first part of the piston downstroke drew in a fuel-air mixture, then the inlet valve closed and, in the remainder of the down-stroke, the fuel-air mixture fired.