Leonore /le-ono-re/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name. Leonore's root is Greek, and Leonore means other, foreign; sun ray; light; compassion; light. Leonore is a variant transcription of Eleanor (Old French, Old German). Leonore is also a derivative of Helen (Greek). Leonore is also used as a variation of Lenore (Greek) and Leonora (Greek).
Spanish and Portuguese form of ELEANOR. It was brought to Spain in the 12th-century by Eleanor of England, who married king Alfonso VIII of Castile. 
Here are pictures of people with the name Leonor. Help us put a face to the name by uploading your pictures to BabyNames.com!
Leonor de Todos los Santos de Borbon borbón Y, Ortiz princess Of (asturias. b), 2005 daughter Of King FELIPE vi Of. Spain Leonor telles De, meneses queen consort Of Ferdinand i Of. portugal Leonor de Todos los Santos de Borbon borbón Y, Ortiz princess Of (asturias. b), 2005 daughter Of King FELIPE vi Of. spain
Leonor /le-onor/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name. Leonor's name origins are Old French, Old German and Greek, and the meaning of the name Leonor is other, foreign; compassion; light. Leonor is an alternate spelling of Eleanor (Old French, Old German). Leonor is also a derivative of Leonora (Greek). Kreatif forms: Lanor, Lonor, Lynor
Eleanor (usually pronounced /ˈɛlənɔr/ in North America but /ˈɛlənə/ elsewhere, variants Elinor, Ellinor, Elenor, Eleanore, Eleanour, Eleonor(a) among others; short form Leonor and variants) is a feminine given name. 1 Eleanor of Champagne (1102–1147), recorded as the name of the first wife of Ralph I, Count of Vermandois who was displaced by Eleanor of Aquitaine's sister Petronilla of Aquitaine, leading to a two years' war (1142–44) in Champagne.
Meanings and history of the name Leonor: | Edit. Share what you know! Famous real-life people named Leonor: | Edit. The Infanta Leonor of Spain, b. 2005, daughter of Prince Felipe and his wife Princess Letizia, and second in line to the throne. Leonor Kretzer Sullivan, 1902-1988, Representative from Missouri
Click on a place to view Leonor immigration records. The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Leonor families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. Click on a circle in the chart to view Leonor immigration records. You can find out when most of the Leonor families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era.