Look up Cecilia in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Cecilia, which is the name of Saint Cecilia, the patron saint of music, has been a consistently used name in the United States, where it has ranked among the top 500 names for girls for more than 100 years. It was the 274th most popular name for American girls born in 2007. 
In American the meaning of the name Cecilia is: Blind. Latin Meaning: The name Cecilia is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Cecilia is: Blind. Famous bearer: The blind St. Cecilie, patron saint of music, was a talented musician. English Meaning: The name Cecilia is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Cecilia is: A feminine form of Cecil, derived from the Roman clan name Caecilius, which is based on the Latin coccus meaning 'blind'. 
Cecilia was thrice as popular as the 2nd ranked name, Cecelia, in 2012. Baby names that sound like Cecilia include Cecylia, Ceceli, Cecelie, Cecila, Cecilee, Ceciley, Cecilie, Cecilla, Cecillia, Cecilya, Cecilia, Cecília, Ceclia, Ceely, Ceilia, Celea, Celeasha, Celeashah, Celeesha, celeeshah And. celeisha Cecilia is popular as a baby girl name. At the peak of its usage in 1904, 0.086% of baby girls were named Cecilia. It was #190 in rank then. The baby name has experienced a decline in frequency since then, and is in recent times of modest use.
[ 3 syll. ce-ci-lia, cec-il-ia ] The baby girl name Cecilia is pronounced Sah-S IY L-Yah or Sah-S IY-Liy-ah (English), CHeh-CH IY-LYaa (Italian), -THeh-TH IY-LYaa (Spanish), or Seh-S IY-LYaa (Spanish-Latin American) †. Cecilia is of Latin origin. Cecilia is popular as a baby girl name. At the peak of its usage in 1904, 0.086% of baby girls were named Cecilia. It was #190 in rank then. The baby name has experienced a decline in frequency since then, and is in recent times of modest use.
Cecilia /ce-cil-ia/ [4 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced sess-SEEL-yah. It is of Latin and Old Welsh origin, and the meaning of Cecilia is blind; sixth. The name came from the Welsh name Seissylt meaning sixth. It was later used as an English form of Latin name Caecilia, feminine of Caecilius (see Cecil). The feminine form is more popular than the male form because of the blind Saint Cecilia (second or third century) virgin martyr known as the patron saint of music. The name became common among Christians during the Middle Ages when it was brought by the Normans to England, where it was commonly spelled Cecily.
Cecilia is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 7 letters and 4 syllables and is pronounced Ce-ci-li-a. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 206 in baby name popularity for girls with 1623 occurrences. English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland.
Latinate feminine form of the Roman family name Caecilius, which was derived from Latin caecus blind. Saint Cecilia was a semi-legendary 2nd-or 3rd-century martyr who was sentenced to die because she refused to worship the Roman gods. After attempts to suffocate her failed, she was beheaded. She was later regarded as the patron saint of music and musicians. Due to the popularity of the saint, the name became common in the Christian world during the Middle Ages. The Normans brought it to England, where it was commonly spelled Cecily-the Latinate form Cecilia came into use in the 18th century.
Cecilia is a very popular first name for women (#318 out of 4276, Top 7%) and also a very popular surname for all people (#72022 out of 150436, Top 48%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Cecilia for girls. The feminine form is more popular than the male form because of the blind Saint Cecilia (second or third century) virgin martyr known as the patron saint of music. The name became common among Christians during the Middle Ages when it was brought by the Normans to England, where it was commonly spelled Cecily.
Meanings and history of the name Cecilia : | Edit. (Latin) Female name of Latin origin meaning the way for the blind.. (French) one of the shining light or one of the world. blind one. The name of Saint Cecilia, the patron saint of music. Feminine form of Cecil, which is derived from Caecilius, an old Roman family name, which has its root in the Latin caecus (blind, dim-sighted). The name was borne by a 3rd-century Christian who founded a church in the Trastevere section of Rome.
Origin of the name Cecilia: Feminine form of Cecil, which is derived from Caecilius, an old Roman family name, which has its root in the Latin caecus (blind, dim-sighted). The name was borne by a 3rd-century Christian who founded a church in the Trastevere section of Rome.