Building wiring is the electrical wiring and associated devices such as switches, meters and light fittings used in buildings or other structures. Electrical wiring uses insulated conductors. Electrical codes arose in the 1880s with the commercial introduction of electrical power. Many conflicting standards existed for the selection of wire sizes and other design rules for electrical installations.
Electrical installation work is mechanized through the use of general-purpose construction machinery—for example, lift trucks, hoists, and truck cranes—and of specialized electrical-installation machinery, devices, and tools. In this case, electrical installation work is reduced to the installation of such facilities and the connection of the facilities to external power networks. Spravochnik po montazhu elektroustanovok promyshlennykh predpriiatii, 2nd ed., books 1–2. Moscow, 1976. Stroitel’nye normy i pravila, part 3.
The first stage, which coincides in time with general construction work, includes the installation of fasteners or inserts in structural elements for the subsequent attachment of electrical equipment and structures for the installation of electric wiring. In this case, electrical installation work is reduced to the installation of such facilities and the connection of the facilities to external power networks. Spravochnik po montazhu elektroustanovok promyshlennykh predpriiatii, 2nd ed., books 1–2. Moscow, 1976. Stroitel’nye normy i pravila, part 3.
In the second stage, the electrical equipment and the structures for the installation of wiring are transported to the construction site, installed in the planned locations, and assembled. In addition, cables and wires are laid and are connected to the installed electrical equipment. In this case, electrical installation work is reduced to the installation of such facilities and the connection of the facilities to external power networks. Spravochnik po montazhu elektroustanovok promyshlennykh predpriiatii, 2nd ed., books 1–2. Moscow, 1976. Stroitel’nye normy i pravila, part 3.
An electrician is a tradesperson specializing in electrical wiring of buildings, stationary machines and related equipment. Electricians may be employed in the installation of new electrical components or the maintenance and repair of existing electrical infrastructure. Electricians may also specialize in wiring ships, airplanes, and other mobile platforms, as well as data and cable.
Electrical Installation Guide in Wiki format ! The Electrical Installation Guide is now available here as a wiki (Electrical Installation Wiki). This wiki is a collaborative platform, brought to you by Schneider Electric: our experts are continuously improving its content, as they were doing for the guide. You can find below the main table of content of this wiki, with links to all the different chapters or topics (as in the Electrical Installation Guide).
In the United Kingdom, wiring installations are regulated by the Institution of Engineering and Technology Requirements for Electrical Installations: IEE Wiring Regulations, BS 7671: 2008, which are harmonised with IEC 60364. Electrical codes arose in the 1880s with the commercial introduction of electrical power. Many conflicting standards existed for the selection of wire sizes and other design rules for electrical installations.
Local Codes. The physical materials required for your project will factor into the electrical installation prices. There are usually a range of options you can pick from, and as usual there are lower-priced options and more expensive options. With the materials also comes delivery and storage of these materials. 
The aim of the Electrical Installation Guide (and now Wiki) is to help electrical designers and contractors to design electrical installations according to standards such as the IEC60364 or other relevant standards. You can find below the main table of content of this wiki, with links to all the different chapters or topics (as in the Electrical Installation Guide).