Allow the sealer to dry 4 hours or longer as indicated by the manufacturer's label. Apply a second coat of sealer across the entire concrete surface. Leave it to sit at least a day before allowing any traffic on the new concrete. 
If you plan to use a penetrating sealer for ongoing maintenance, then your concrete should either be: a) moist-cured, or b) cured with an easily removed concrete curing compound. By making the sealing choice before your concrete is installed, you can inform your contractor on the curing method you prefer. 
If a cure and seal is not being used, then you should allow the concrete to cure for 2-4 weeks. The industry standard is 28 days but that depends on the climate and mix of concrete. It is important to wait and not to seal new concrete too soon. Trapping moisture in the surface will likely lead to a premature failure of the sealer. If you wait too long to apply sealer, the concrete will have to be cleaned and degreased
If you poured your concrete in the middle of dry summer then 14 days should be the minimum amount of time you should wait. After you seal the concrete (depends on conditions and sealer product) you will typically want to give the sealer 1 day prior to walking on it and 48 hours after application before driving on it. Again depends on type of sealer (ie. epoxy...). concretenetwork.com has a lot of good info as well. Confidence votes 142. Typical concrete takes 28 days (4 weeks) to cure. Prior to the 28 days concrete still has moisture in it that weakens the strength of the concrete. If you seal it prior to 28 days there is a chance you will be sealing in some of that moisture and hence weakening the integrity of the concrete.
Report Abuse. It is important to let the concrete cure before you seal it. There are curing compounds available to speed up the curing process. I personally would give a 2 week gap at least but 7 days is usually the norm and should be ok. It also depend on the sealant you use. If it is a penetrating sealant and the manufacturer advise that you can use it before a 7 day period is up, go for it if you are pressed for time. If you seal too early, the sealant will form bubbles and the finish will realy look crappy. Source(s): Been there, done that.
How long should one wait before applying a sealer to freshly poured colored concrete. The people she's hired want to seal it the next day. My daughter is having a small patio done. Its not my trade but am trying to educate myself so I can help with insight if need be. Thanks. 
Applying Sealer-about 1 hour each coat Drying time (between coats) - about 1-3 hours Drying time (final coat) - 10 hours minimum to 24 hours or more in colder weather or more humid weather. Sealing the Concrete with Clear Shield Solvent Base Sealer, will take two generous and even coats. Apply first generous coat. Once you can walk on it, apply the second coat. Applying Sealer-about 1 hour each coat Drying time (between coats) - about 1-3 hours Drying time (final coat) - 24 hours minimum to 48 hours to 72 hours or more in colder weather. If you are doing an exterior project then you are complete.
1 High-performance topical coatings, such as epoxies and urethanes, will cost more -- typically $0.50 to $2.50 per square foot. 2  In most cases, the investment in a sealer is well worth the expense, when you consider that the cost to replace concrete is generally $7 to $8 per square foot. 1 How much does sealer cost? 2  Acrylic-resin sealers and chemically reactive penetrating sealers (silanes, silicates, siloxanes and siliconates) generally cost $0.15 to $0.25 per square foot. 3 
the time it takes for excess mix water in concrete to evaporate is pretty consistent, as long as you didn't use a cheap contractor who watered down the mix. it ranges from a month to 12 weeks, depending on the type of sealer you're going to use. outside, with an acrylic, you can seal after a month in most cases. inside or outside, with a urethane or epoxy, it's more like 12 weeks. 