This tank is also equipped with Kanger’s dual airflow control valve that allows the user to dial in the perfect amount of airflow they desire for their vape. A rebuildable atomizer is also included in the Subox Mini, which has been redesigned with a much larger base compared to its predecessor. The larger base gives ample room for a coil build with bigger wicking holes for more e-liquid flow throughout the system. Batteries are NOT included in this kit.
Features. The SUBOX Mini Starter Kit is the perfect starter kit for vapers looking for a sub-ohm and cloud producing experience without destroying your wallet. The SUBOX Mini Starter features the super popular Subtank Mini with the new KBOX Mini which can fire up to 50 watts!
The SUBOX Nano Starter Kit comes with a 510 drip tip and two OCCs (one 0.5 Ohm and one 1.5 Ohm) in the box. The SUBOX Nano is to be an improved OCC system, resulting in a higher wattage capability and an easier to assemble atomizer-which everyone, new and experienced can appreciate.
Kanger Subtank Mini is the lastest cartomizer by Kangertech with a new design of Organic Cotton Coil (OCC). It can support pre-build sub-ohm coil heads as well as a new rebuildable or RBA coil head.
The SUBOX mini contains both the KBOX mini and the Subtank Mini, together in one package for a match made in heaven. Containing two different OCC’s (0.5 Sub Ohm and 1.5 Ohm) and a Variable Wattage system, the SUBOX Mini is full of features and options.
The SUBOX mini contains both the KBOX mini and the Subtank Mini, together in one package for a match made in heaven. Containing two different OCC’s (0.5 Sub Ohm and 1.5 Ohm) and a Variable Wattage system, the SUBOX Mini is full of features and options.
And the volume of e-juice it can hold is only 4.5ml. KangerTech has a Mini RBA that is loaded with great features such as air flow control and the original OCC or Organic Cotton Coil heads. The Kanger Subtank Mini is made of Stainless steel and Pyrex glass.
Kangertech Subtank Hybrid Tank. The Kanger Subtank Clearomizer is a brand new revolutionary tank from Kangertech, that can be used as a clearomizer as well as an RBA. The Subtank provides you with the option of using this tank as an RBA or with and the new OCC (Organic Cotton Coil) coils, Kangertech’s newest innovation.