Exfoliation involves the removal of the oldest dead skin cells on the skin's outermost surface. Exfoliation is involved in the process of all facials, during microdermabrasion or chemical peels at medical spas. Exfoliation can be achieved through mechanical or chemical means. 
Exfoliation is the cosmetic practice of removing dead skin cells from the epidermis, the top layer of the skin. Your skin can shed 30,000 to 40,000 dead cells per minute naturally; however, many people need exfoliation products to help reduce acne and get smooth skin. If you want to exfoliate outside of the shower, you can use circular motions with a long-handled, natural bristled brush. 1  This brush is available in the cosmetics section of most box stores, like Target and Walmart, as well as in natural food stores. 2  Start with your legs and move slowly up your body.
We all know we need to exfoliate the dead skin cells off of our body, but not all areas of your body should be treated the same. Your face can not be exfoliated with the same product as your feet, and vice-versa. Here we break down the body into 6 parts and talk about what is needed to exfoliate each area of your body. See how much of the dust in your home is dead skin cells .). Because most of your body isn't as thin as the skin on your face, you can have some fun when it comes to exfoliating your body. You can use the dry brush method, buy a fun body scrub or make your own. (Cinnamon Swirl Coffee Scrub Recipe) .
1 When you reach the bikini area, don't scrub too hard because the skin is very sensitive. 2  Use a body brush to exfoliate your back and other hard-to-reach places. 3  Be gentle on your face, particularly around your eyes and mouth. 1 This will help remove the loose skin and prepare your skin for the exfoliating process. 2  Begin with the soles of your feet, working your way up your body. 3  Get into the shower and wet your body from head to toe. 4  Don't exfoliate your skin if you are sunburned or have any open cuts or wounds.
The process of exfoliation rids the body of any dry, dull skin by removing dead skin cells from the surface of the epidermis. By removing these dead cells, exfoliation can help keep pores from becoming clogged and leave skin with a refreshed and clean feeling. While regular skin cleansing is clearly beneficial, exfoliating on a regular basis -- once or twice a week for mild exfoliation, once or twice a month for more intense treatments -- can improve the results of your skin care routine and help rejuvenate your skin.
1) Mechanical Exfoliation. The dead skin cells are physically rubbed off with an abrasive. Examples of mechanical exfoliation include a salt glow, a body scrub that might use sugar or coffee grounds, or skin brushing. On the face, scrubs should use small, round, gentle abrasives like jojoba beads. What You Should Know About Facial Exfoliation: 1  Be extra careful with the delicate skin of your face. 2  It's easy to overexfoliate. 3  Talk to a good esthetician about the product and frequency that is best for your skin.
3. Buy an exfoliation scrub that contains beads, pits, sugar, salt or another natural exfoliating substance. It should say body scrub or cleansing scrub.. 1  Allow the shower to run over your skin for a few minutes, if you are using an exfoliating scrub or a loofah. 2  Choose warm, not hot, water. If you want to exfoliate outside of the shower, you can use circular motions with a long-handled, natural bristled brush. 1  This brush is available in the cosmetics section of most box stores, like Target and Walmart, as well as in natural food stores. 2  Start with your legs and move slowly up your body.
Exfoliation is the removal of the oldest dead skin cells that cling to the skin's outermost surface, or epidermis. Exfoliation is an important part of both facials and body treatments. When done correctly, exfoliation leaves the skin feeling smoother and fresher looking. Exfoliation also makes it easier for expensive facial products like serums to pentrate. What You Should Know About Facial Exfoliation: 1  Be extra careful with the delicate skin of your face. 2  It's easy to overexfoliate. 3  Talk to a good esthetician about the product and frequency that is best for your skin.
Dry skin can dry out even more with exfoliation, which can lead to irritation and even wrinkles. Note that there are different products for use on the body and the face; the face is the part of your body with the most sensitive skin, so it's not good to exfoliate it too harshly or too often. 