Working quality control technicians can earn quality technician certification from the American Society for Quality (ASQ), as long as they have completed four years of education and on-the-job experience to qualify for the certification examination, though some exceptions do exist (www.asq.org). Quality control technicians must be meticulous in their work, skilled in quality processes and statistical techniques, and knowledgeable about measurement and test equipment (MT&E) and failure mode and effects analysis (FMEA) concepts, according to the ASQ.
A quality technician inspects products to assure that they meet defined standards for durability, function, customer satisfaction, or any other metric that the industry considers a measure of quality. Career Overview. The purpose of quality assurance (QA) is obvious; quality technicians prevent bad items from getting to market. How they fulfill that goal varies widely depending on what they are inspecting, reports the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS, www.bls.gov). The field in which a quality technician works may var
Quality Control Technician Salary. Quality Control Technician average salary is $40,093, median salary is $37,500 with a salary range from $21,424 to $288,288. Quality Control Technician salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position
As a technician you may be working in either quality control or quality assurance and most positions relating to these specific jobs are in the engineering or manufacturing sectors. Work in quality assurance is about ensuring that: 1  An organisation’s management system requirements have been properly defined. 
Quality control technicians looking to advance their careers can pursue quality control engineering jobs with further education (a bachelor's or master's degree in engineering); however, opportunities for advancement are also plentiful through work experience. Quality control technicians must be meticulous in their work, skilled in quality processes and statistical techniques, and knowledgeable about measurement and test equipment (MT&E) and failure mode and effects analysis (FMEA) concepts, according to the ASQ.
Education and Qualifications. Employers require a two-year degree for a quality control technician. The degree program can be in an engineering field or quality control technology. Employers may require a technician to have experience and knowledge of the industry and products. 
Quality Control (QC) Technician Salary. (United States). The average Quality Control Technician in the United States can expect to rake in roughly $15.89 per hour. The income range spans the entire spectrum between $11.59 per hour and $21.73. For Quality Control Technicians, level of experience appears to be a somewhat less important part of the salary calculation — more experience does not correlate to noticeably higher pay.
The quality technician doing quality control or quality assurance probably holds a high school diploma or an associate's degree. Quality control inspectors, auditors, engineers, or managers often hold bachelor's degrees or graduate degrees. Career Overview. The purpose of quality assurance (QA) is obvious; quality technicians prevent bad items from getting to market. How they fulfill that goal varies widely depending on what they are inspecting, reports the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS, www.bls.gov). The field in which a quality technician works may vary