1 Quinoa is the only grain that’s a complete protein, meaning it contains all nine essential amino acids, says Jackie Newgent, R.D., author of 1,000 Low-Calorie Recipes. 2  It’s an ideal protein source for vegetarians and vegans. 3  Quinoa packs a filling combo of 8g of protein and 6g of fiber per cooked cup. 
Photo Credit nata_vkusidey/iStock/Getty Images. Quinoa is a high-protein, gluten-free vegan treasure that cooks in less than 20 minutes and complements any diet. Often considered a grain, it's actually a seed. Quinoa is one of the most protein-rich plant foods around, and it also contains fiber and numerous vitamins and minerals. 
Quinoa is a great source of iron and fiber for vegetarians, vegans, and omnivores alike. One cup of cooked quinoa (185 grams) provides 15% of the recommended daily intake of iron, and 5 grams of fiber, which is 21% the recommended amount. Quinoa is naturally low in fat, but as a seed, it does have a small amount. One cup of cooked quinoa provides 3.4 grams of fat. By comparison, 185 grams cooked lean ground beef provides 33
Quinoa (/ˈkiːnoʊ.ə/ , from Quechua kinwa or kinuwa) is a species of the goosefoot genus (Chenopodium quinoa), a grain crop grown primarily for its edible seeds. It is a pseudocereal, similar in some respects to buckwheat, rather than a true cereal, as it is not a member of the true grass family. It is high in protein, and is tolerant of dry soil. The Food and Agricultural Organisation of the United Nations (FAO), declared 2013 to be the International Year of Quinoa.
Non-GMO, organic quinoa is the cornerstone of Ancient Harvest products, and it’s easy to see why. With its mild flavor, light crunch and impressive protein content, quinoa is the perfect gluten-free substitute for pasta, rice or couscous. It’s also frequently milled into gluten-free flour that can be used in baking, or as the base for gluten-free pastas, cereals and more. 
7 Health Benefits of Quinoa. 1. High in protein -- its protein balance is similar to milk and has more protein compared to rice, millet or wheat. 2. A good source of riboflavin -- riboflavin helps reduce the frequency attacks in migraine sufferers by improving the energy metabolism within the brain and muscle cells. 3. 
Health Benefits of Quinoa. Most often used as a grain, quinoa in a single cup serving has 5 grams of dietary fiber and 8 grams of protein. This tiny edible seed, which is related to spinach and beetroots, can be cooked, and added to meals where it serves as a main or secondary protein.
Protein in Quinoa: One of the best reasons to enjoy quinoa is because it has a high-protein content, which makes it a great cholesterol-free and low-fat source of protein for vegetarians and vegans. According to the USDA nutrient database, 1 cup of cooked quinoa (185 g) contains 8.14 grams of protein. Quinoa is naturally low in fat, but as a seed, it does have a small amount. One cup of cooked quinoa provides 3.4 grams of fat. By comparison, 185 grams cooked lean ground beef provides 33
1 Finally, of all the whole grains, quinoa has the highest protein content, so it's perfect for vegetarians and vegans. 2  Quinoa provides all 9 essential amino acids, making it a complete protein. 3  Quinoa is a gluten-free and cholesterol-free whole grain, is kosher for Passover, and is almost always organic. While quinoa is usually considered to be a whole grain, it is actually a seed, but can be prepared like whole grains such as rice or barley. Try a quinoa salad recipe, or serve a vegetable stir-fry over cooked quinoa instead of rice.
As a chenopod, quinoa is closely related to species such as beetroots, spinach and tumbleweeds. As a member of the Amaranthaceae family, it is related to and resembles amaranth, which is also a pseudocereal. It is high in protein, and is tolerant of dry soil. The Food and Agricultural Organisation of the United Nations (FAO), declared 2013 to be the International Year of Quinoa.