Adrienne /adri-enne/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced AY-dree-en. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Adrienne is from Hadria. French feminine form of Adrian. Fashion designer Adrienne Vittadini.2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Adrienne for girls. Adrienne was first listed in 1900-1909 and reached its top position of #189 in the U.S. during the years 1980-1989, and is presently at #811.
Origin of the name Adrienne: Feminine form of Adrien, which is from the Latin Adriānus (from the city of Adria) and Hadriānus (from the city of Hadria). Var: Adrian, Adriana, Adriann, Adrianne, Adrienn.ersonal experiences with the name Adrienne: | Edit. My name is Adrienne and I have enjoyed having it as a name. People sometimes tell me it is pretty. It is different enough that people feel compelled to tell me their mother, niece, cousin ect. is named Adrienne.
Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Adrienne Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Adrienne has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Adrienne to other names.
Adrienne is used chiefly in English and French. Its origin is Latin. Adrienne is a variant of the name Adria (German and English). Adrienne is also a variant of Adriana in the English and French languages. Adrienne is a classic favorite. At present it is still somewhat popular as a baby girl name, but not as much as it was previously. The name's popularity increased from the 1900s up to the 1980s.
Adrienne is a form of the name Adrian. Variants of the name Adrienne include Adreana, Adreanna, Adreayna, Adrena, Adrene, Adriana, Adrianah, Adriane, Adriann, Adrianna, Adriannah, Adriaria, Adrieanna, Adrieanne, Adriena, Adriene, Adrienn, Adrienna, Adrijana, Adrina, Adrine, Adrion, Adriona.ess than 5 boys were given the name. View the Adrienne Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Adrienne has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Adrienne to other names.
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Adrienne in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Adrienne in Nautical Flags page.ess than 5 boys were given the name. View the Adrienne Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Adrienne has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Adrienne to other names.
You are good intellectually and require several outlets for your energies. You are not a builder but a planner, and you want others to carry out your plans. You are bold, independent, inquisitive and interested in research. You know what you want and why you want it. You are very intuitive.
What does Adrienne mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Adrienne is of Latin and French origin. The meaning of Adrienne is from Hadria, Italy.ess than 5 boys were given the name. View the Adrienne Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Adrienne has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Adrienne to other names.
(2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Adrienne for girls. Adrienne was first listed in 1900-1909 and reached its top position of #189 in the U.S. during the years 1980-1989, and is presently at #811.
Adriene /ad-rie-ne/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls is of Latin origin, and the name Adriene means from Hadria. Adriene is an alternate form of Adrienne (Latin): French feminine variant of Adrian. Adrion is a familiar last name. Kreatif forms: Adriean, Adriete.