Cargill remains a family-owned business, as the descendants of the founder (from the Cargill and MacMillan families) own over 85% of the company. As a result, most of its growth has been due to reinvestment of the company's own earnings rather than public financing. Cargill was founded in 1865 by William W. Cargill when he bought a grain flat house in Conover, Iowa. A year later William was joined by his brother, Sam, forming W.W. Cargill and Brother. Together, they built grain flat houses and opened a lumberyard.
Products and Services. Cargill Limited has a diverse business profile, providing innovative solutions in the trading, processing, and distribution of products and services to its partners in the agricultural, food, manufacturing, financial, and risk management industries. 
Cargill is a food ingredients supplier to global food and beverage manufacturers with a broad portfolio of food ingredients and systems. Our diverse food ingredients portfolio spans core and specialty ingredients, ingredient systems and finished food systems. 
Careers. Every day, we grow our reputation as a leading international producer of food, agricultural, financial and industrial products and services. With innovation, creativity and teamwork, we’re transforming entire markets – and people's lives. We can have the same incredible impact on your career. 
Cargill brands around the world. You will not find the “Cargill” brand on store shelves, but you will find that we are behind many of the brands. you know well. 1  As a consumer, you may have tried our products at your favorite restaurant or grocery store. 2  Products like beef, turkey, pork, salt, oils or sweeteners are just a few
Cargill, Inc. , is an American privately held, i.e. family business, global corporation, based in Minnetonka, Minnesota, a Minneapolis suburb. Founded in 1865, it is now the largest privately held corporation in the United States in terms of revenue. Cargill was founded in 1865 by William W. Cargill when he bought a grain flat house in Conover, Iowa. A year later William was joined by his brother, Sam, forming W.W. Cargill and Brother. Together, they built grain flat houses and opened a lumberyard.
Cargill’s subsidiary Excel Corp. is a major supplier of irradiated meat products. Irradiated meat is the subject of controversy, as some argue it will lead to lax safety and hygiene practices in the meat industry. • Cargill has tried to green its image with NatureWorks PLA, a biodegradable synthetic material that uses a corn base instead of petroleum, but Cargill does not publicize the fact that the corn used to produce NatureWorks PLA is genetically modified.
Cargill provides food, agriculture, financial and industrial products and services to the world. Together with farmers, customers, governments and communities, we help people thrive by applying our insights and 150 years of experience. 
Meeting the unique needs of customers with hundreds of products. From animal nutrition and feed to our distinct brands, learn about Cargill's products and services for farmers, food companies, manufacturers, energy and financial providers.