40 to 50 minutes. Roasting. Roasting is a dry heat cooking method where the lamb is cooked in an oven. To prepare a lamb roast, simply place roast fat-side up on rack in open roasting pan, sprinkling with seasonings, as desired. By Method, Cut And Weight Braising Braising is a moist heat cooking method where lamb cuts are browned and cooked in a small amount of liquid. The liquid produces steam which helps tenderize the meat.
Whether you are looking for a boneless leg of lamb cooking time or a rack of lamb cooking time, use the following chart as a cooking time and temperature guide for lamb cuts that are cooked in the oven, grilled, or are inserted into an oven bag prior to cooking. Oven Bag Instructions: Preheat the oven to 325 ° F. Add 1 tablespoon flour to the oven bag and distribute evenly on the inside of the bag prior to inserting the lamb. Remove the lamb from the oven when the meat thermometer reaches 150 ° F or when the meat is fork tender.
1 1/2 - 2 hours. Leg roast (half, bone-in). 3-5 lbs. 1 - 1 1/2 hours. Oven Bag Instructions: Preheat the oven to 325 ° F. Add 1 tablespoon flour to the oven bag and distribute evenly on the inside of the bag prior to inserting the lamb. Remove the lamb from the oven when the meat thermometer reaches 150 ° F or when the meat is fork tender.
Roast Lamb. Medium - 15 minutes per lb (450g). Well done - 20 minutes per lb (450g). Slow Roasting. The times for the slow roasting method are as follows: Cook in Roasting Oven for about 30 minutes, or until beginning to brown, then transfer to the Simmering Oven for double the remaining cooking time.
Place on the middle rack of the oven and cook for 30 to 35 minutes, until the meat reaches an internal temperature of 130 degrees F. This is approximately 8 to 12 minutes per pound. Remove from the oven, transfer the roast to a rack, cover with aluminum foil and let the meat rest for 20 minutes. 
Insert meat thermometer so tip is in thickest part of lamb (not resting in fat). Cook until the lamb roast reaches an internal temperature of 120 degrees F. Remove from oven, cover with aluminum foil, and let sit approximately 15 to 20 minutes. Remember, the lamb roast will continue to cook as it sets. The temperature will rise to 125 degrees F to 130 degrees F. internal temperature (medium rare) at 15 to 20 minutes. If allowed to rest as long as an hour, the temperature will rise even higher. So, pay attention to how long you let the cooked lamb roast sit. Sear the lamb roast for 15 minutes at the higher oven temperature (450 degrees F.), then turn the oven to the lower temperature (325 degrees F.) for the rest of the cooking time. Do Not Cover the roast.
• Shortcrust pastry cooking itmes and temperatures. From Cookipedia. This meat roasting calculator gives you cooking times and temperatures by weight for roast beef joint, roast turkey, roasted chicken, roast duck, grouse, lamb, pheasant, pork, honey roast gammon, (ham / bacon), boiled bacon and venison. How to create your own roasting schedule. 
Leg roast (half, bone-in). 3-5 lbs. 1 - 1 1/2 hours. Oven Bag Instructions: Preheat the oven to 325 ° F. Add 1 tablespoon flour to the oven bag and distribute evenly on the inside of the bag prior to inserting the lamb. 30 minutes. Shoulder roast (boneless). 3 1/2 - 6 lbs. 35 minutes. 40 minutes. 45 minutes. Note: Start with meat at refrigerated temperature. Remove the meat from the oven when it reaches. 5° to 10°F below the desired doneness; the temperature will continue to rise as the meat stands.
When you roast a piece of meat with the bone still in, you are getting all that flavor in the meat itself. A bone-in lamb leg can be a little trickier to carve, but we opted for bone-in in this cooking lesson (we'll show you how to carve it). The lamb is ready (medium-rare to medium) when the temperature is 135°F (or above). At 135°F the lamb is cooked to rare, but it will continue cooking as it rests, so we recommend taking it out of the oven at 135° for medium-rare to medium.