To understand how reproductive hazards can affect a woman's reproductive health and her ability to have healthy children, it is helpful to understand how the female reproductive system works. The main reproductive tissues in women are the ovaries, uterus, and fallopian tubes.
Introduction to the Reproductive System. The major function of the reproductive system is to ensure survival of the species. Other systems in the body, such as the endocrine and urinary systems, work continuously to maintain homeostasis for survival of the individual.
The Reproductive System and Interrelationships with the Endocrine, Skeletal, and Muscular Systems. Though reproductive system interactions with other body systems are relatively meager, one—that with the endocrine system— stands out and will receive the bulk of our attention.
The female reproductive system includes the ovaries, fallopian tubes, uterus, vagina, vulva, mammary glands and breasts. These organs are involved in the production and transportation of gametes and the production of sex hormones.
The major function of the reproductive system is to ensure survival of the species. Other systems in the body, such as the endocrine and urinary systems, work continuously to maintain homeostasis for survival of the individual.
The female reproductive system interacts with many other systems in the body. The most common is the endocrine system. The reproductive system relies on the endocrine system to produce hormones such as progesterone and estrogen, that help with the blood lining of the uterus and prepare the uterus for pregnancy. Another system would have to be the nervous system.
The main external structures of the female reproductive system include: 1  Labia majora: The labia majora enclose and protect the other external reproductive organs. 2  Literally translated as large lips, the labia majora are relatively large and fleshy, and are comparable to the scrotum in males.
How the Female Reproductive System Works. The main function of the female reproductive system is to produce eggs, also called ova (plural for ovum), which are the female sex cells.