Report Abuse. If you're talking about a nose job for cosmetic reasons, most doctors will require you be at least sixteen years old, with your parents' consent. Otherwise, you will wait until you're 18. However, if you need rhinoplasty for medical reasons, then it can be done at any age. If you are a minor, then a parent has to sign their consent. You'll have to find a doctor willing to do the procedure on a minor, however. This won't be difficult in the case of an older teenager, but younger than that and doctors will have more concerns.
A 12 year old can get a nose job if its a medical condition and is prescribed by a doctor. Otherwise surgeons won't do it until you are 15 or 16 for girls and 16 or 17 f … or boys. If you do a surgery really early then your nose will grow back or maybe be even worse than before. You should wait until you are 18. 
The nose has to be fully developed for a teenager to get a surgery. If the teenager gets a rhinoplasty at too young of an age then the nose can grow disproportional to how it was reshaped. Apart from the physical aspect of a nose job, the 15 and 16 year old is more mature than a 13 year old. Some doctors will go as early as 14 for boys and 13 for girls, but it's not recommended. You should make the decision of plastic surgery on logic and not purely emotion
Before getting a nose job, teens and their parents or guardians should talk extensively with the surgeon and weigh all of the risks and benefits. Honest communication between you, your parents, and the surgeon is very important to the success of the operation. 
Report Abuse. I think you have to be at least 16 with parental consent, because you're mostly done growing by then. Or 18 without parental consent. When you get it the first week you will have to wear a cast/splint and the second your doctor might tape your nose. You will have bruising and swelling the first week but it depends on how much
Best Answer: You don't have to be a certain age; many teenagers have this procedure. The cost of the nose job depends on whether it is septoplasty (medical problem) or rhinoplasty (purely for appearance). With septoplasty, you will get a significant rebate from Medicare. With rhinoplasty, expect to pay around $7500 plus anethetist costs (approximately $400). Your GP should be able to recommend a cosmetic surgeon, but even so, you should do your homework and make sure that they are fully qualified.
A 12 year old can get a nose job if its a medical condition and is prescribed by a doctor. Otherwise surgeons won't do it until you are 15 or 16 for girls and 16 or 17 f … or boys. If you do a surgery really early then your nose will grow back or maybe be even worse than before. You should wait until you are 18. 
If you get one before you have stopped growing for cosmetic reasons alone, you will end up needing another one eventually. My daughter broke her nose in a fall when she was three years old. she will eventually need a nose job so to speak, simply for cosmetic reasons. If you are a minor, then a parent has to sign their consent. You'll have to find a doctor willing to do the procedure on a minor, however. This won't be difficult in the case of an older teenager, but younger than that and doctors will have more concerns.
how old do you have to be to get a nose job? Nose job cannot be performed until the nose is fully developed usually between 15 and 16 years of age. Dr Simoni believes that a teenager must be the one to desire nose job. Psychological maturity is a must. A teenager needs to understand the nose surgery involves recovery time, discomfort, swelling and a less than pleasing appearance for sometime following nose surgery. It is important that the teenager should have support in their decision to proceed with nose surgery.