Answers. Best Answer: propane only. Saturated hydrocarbon means no double bonds and no triple bonds. Just look at the suffix. -ane means alkane, which are saturated hydrocarbons. Other definition of saturated hydrocarbon is a hydrocarbon with no pi electrons (which implies no double and no triple bonds).
Alkanes. Hydrocarbons which contain only single bonds are called alkanes. They are called saturated hydrocarbons because there is a hydrogen in every possible location. This gives them a general formula C n H 2n+2. The first four alkanes are methane, ethane, propane, and butane with the Lewis symbols shown below. 
In organic chemistry, an alkane, or paraffin (a historical name that also has other meanings), is a saturated hydrocarbon. Alkanes consist only of hydrogen and carbon atoms and all bonds are single bonds. Alkanes (technically, always acyclic or open-chain compounds) have the general chemical formula C n H 2n+2. The simplest possible alkane (the parent molecule) is methane, CH 4. There is no limit to the number of carbon atoms that can be linked together, the only limitation being that the molecule is acyclic, is saturated, and is a hydrocarbon.
Ethane, C2H6, is an alkane and is an example of a saturated hydrocarbon. Ethene, C2H4, is an alkene and is an example of unsaturated hydrocarbon. Ethyne, C2H2, is an alkyne and is also an example of unsaturated hydrocarbon. Aromatic compounds are unsaturated hydrocarbons and contain a benzene ring. Alkanes are saturated hydrocarbons. Saturated means that the hydrocarbon has only single bonds and that the hydrocarbon contains the maximum number of hydrogen atoms for each carbon atom. Unsaturated hydrocarbons contain multiple bonding and contain less than the maximum number of hydrogens per carbon.
Ethane, C2H6, is an alkane and is an example of a saturated hydrocarbon. Ethene, C2H4, is an alkene and is an example of unsaturated hydrocarbon. 
Ethene, C2H4, is an example of an unsaturated hydrocarbon. Other examples of unsaturated compounds are benzene, C6H6, and acetic acid, C2H4O2. All bond angles about the carbon-carbon double bond are 120o. All atoms bonded to the double bonded carbon atoms lie in the same plane. The general formula of an alkene is CnH2n. An alkyne is a hydrocarbon containing triple bonds. The general formula of an alkyne is CnH2n-2. The term saturated is used to refer to a compound in which all carbon-carbon bonds are single bonds and every carbon atom is connected to a different atom.
1 Saturated hydrocarbons (alkanes) are the simplest of the hydrocarbon species. 2  They are composed entirely of single bonds and are saturated with hydrogen. 3  The general formula for saturated hydrocarbons is C n H 2n+2 (assuming non-cyclic structures). 1 Cycloalkanes are hydrocarbons containing one or more carbon rings to which hydrogen atoms are attached. 2  The general formula for a saturated hydrocarbon containing one ring is C n H 2n. 3  Aromatic hydrocarbons, also known as arenes, are hydrocarbons that have at least one aromatic ring.
Ethane, C2H6, is an example of a saturated hydrocarbon. Other examples of saturated compounds are octane, C8H18, and diethyl ether, C4H10O. The term unsaturated is used to designate a compound which contains double or triple bonds and therefore not every carbon is bonded to a different atom. The general formula of an alkene is CnH2n. An alkyne is a hydrocarbon containing triple bonds. The general formula of an alkyne is CnH2n-2. The term saturated is used to refer to a compound in which all carbon-carbon bonds are single bonds and every carbon atom is connect