In healthcare settings, Klebsiella bacteria can be spread through person-to-person contact (for example, from patient to patient via the contaminated hands of healthcare personnel, or other persons) or, less commonly, by contamination of the environment. How Klebsiella bacteria are spread. To get a Klebsiella infection, a person must be exposed to the bacteria. For example, Klebsiella must enter the respiratory (breathing) tract to cause pneumoniae, or the blood to cause a bloodstream infection.
Hi verce t, Klebsiella is a gram-negative, lactose-fermenting, non-motile, aerobic rod-shaped bacterium. It has been a known human pathogen since it was first isolated in the late nineteenth century. Oxytoca is a close family member of Klebsiella pneumoniae. K. pneumoniae is far more common but they cause similar diseases. These guys live in your nose & your lungs.
Colonies of Klebsiella oxytoca on a MacConkey agar (10) . Klebsiella oxytoca is a gram-negative bacterium with a cylindrical rod shape measuring 2 µm by 5µm (8) . In the 1950’s the strain M5aI was isolated with a notable characteristic of lacking a polysaccharide capsule. Klebsiella oxytoca was determined to be the cause of spontaneous arthritis in the knee of a 30-month old child with no prior history of any bacterial infections (6) . The child had not been hospitalized recently, was up to date on all vaccinations, and did not present with a urinary tract infection
Klebsiella pneumonia is a form of bacterial pneumonia associated with Klebsiella pneumoniae. It is typically due to aspiration by alcoholics, though it is more commonly implicated in hospital-acquired urinary tract and wound infections, particularly in immunocompromised individuals and diabetics. 
Klebsiella oxytoca is among the top four pathogens that cause disease in neonatal units in the U.S. Patients who require a catheter for urine drainage are at an increased risk for infections caused by Klebsiella oxyoca. It is closely related to Klebsiella pneumonia. Both are rod-shaped, gram-negative bacteria that cause similar types of diseases. They are typically found in the intestinal tract, where they are part of a healthy colon’s ecosystem.
Klebsiella oxytoca is a type of bacterium that is frequently spread in intensive care units or nursing homes. It is closely related to Klebsiella pneumonia. Both are rod-shaped, gram-negative bacteria that cause similar types of diseases. They are typically found in the intestinal tract, where they are part of a healthy colon’s ecosystem.
Overview. Klebsiella infections refer to several different types of healthcare-associated infections that are all caused by the Klebsiella bacteria, including pneumonia; bloodstream infections; wound or surgical site infections; and meningitis. 
While Klebsiella oxytoca does not cause as many of these infections as the more commonly known Klebsiella pneumonia, the genus Klebsiella was deemed responsible for 8% of all nonsocomial bacterial infections in the United States and Europe. Klebsiella oxytoca was determined to be the cause of spontaneous arthritis in the knee of a 30-month old child with no prior history of any bacterial infections (6) . The child had not been hospitalized recently, was up to date on all vaccinations, and did not present with a urinary tract infection