Most people will have no or few symptoms from diverticula. Complications can occur in about 20% of people with diverticulosis. One of these complications is rectal bleeding, called diverticular bleeding, and another is diverticular infection, called diverticulitis.
The signs and symptoms of diverticulitis include: 1  Pain, which may be constant and persist for several days. 2  Pain is usually felt in the lower left side of the abdomen, but may occur on the right, especially in people of Asian descent.
People with diverticulitis may have many symptoms, the most common of which is pain in the lower left side of the abdomen. The pain is usually severe and comes on suddenly, though it can also be mild and then worsen over several days.
Symptoms of diverticulitis include abdominal pain, fever, abdominal tenderness, constipation, and sometimes diarrhea. The abdominal pain is most common in the left lower quadrant of the abdomen. Other symptoms can include nausea, vomiting, abdominal bloating or distension, and flatulence.
Diverticulitis with mild symptoms and no complications usually requires a person to rest, take oral antibiotics, and be on a liquid diet for a period of time. Diverticulitis can attack suddenly and cause complications, such as an abscess, a perforation, peritonitis, a fistula, or intestinal obstruction.
1 Share Your Story. 2  Most patients with diverticulosis (diverticular disease) have few or no symptoms. 3  Abdominal pain, constipation, and diarrhea, can occur with diverticulosis, which then may be called diverticular disease. 4  Diverticulosis can be diagnosed with barium X-rays, sigmoidoscopy, colonoscopy, or CT scan.
Symptoms of diverticulitis may last from a few hours to several days. These symptoms may include: 1  Tenderness, cramps, or pain in the abdomen (usually in the lower left side but may occur on the right) that is sometimes worse when you move. 2  Fever and chills.
Diverticulitis is a more serious condition and causes symptoms in most people with the condition that include: 1  pain in the abdomen, usually in the lower left side; 2  bleeding, bright red or maroon blood may appear in the stool, in the toilet (a symptom of rectal bleeding), or on the toilet paper.
1 Abdominal pain, constipation, and diarrhea, can occur with diverticulosis, which then may be called diverticular disease. 2  Diverticulosis can be diagnosed with barium X-rays, sigmoidoscopy, colonoscopy, or CT scan. 3  Treatment of diverticulosis can include high fiber diet, and anti-spasmodic drugs.