The parasympathetic nervous system is one of the two main divisions of the autonomic nervous system (ANS). Its general function is to control homeostasis and the body's rest-and-digest response. The sympathetic nervous system (SNS) is one of two main divisions of the autonomic nervous system (ANS). Its general action is to mobilize the body's fight-or-flight response. Function. Control the body's response while at rest. The parasympathetic nervous system (PNS) controls homeostasis and the body at rest and is responsible for the body's rest and digest function. The sympathetic nervous system (SNS) controls the body's responses to a perceived threat and is responsible for the fight or 
In short, stimulation of the sympathetic branch of the autonomic nervous system prepares the body for emergencies: for  fight or flight  (and, perhaps, enhances the memory of the event that triggered the response). 1  a single preganglionic neuron usually synapses with many postganglionic neurons; 1 The first, the preganglionic neurons, arise in the CNS and run to a ganglion in the body. 2  Here they synapse with. 3  postganglionic neurons, which run to the effector organ (cardiac muscle, smooth muscle, or a gland). 4  sympathetic nervous system and the. 5  parasympathetic nervous system.
(January 2009). The sympathetic nervous system is one of the two main divisions of the autonomic nervous system, the other being the parasympathetic nervous system. The autonomic nervous system functions to regulate the body's unconscious actions. The sympathetic nervous system's primary process is to stimulate the body's fight-or-flight response. It is, however, constantly active at a basic level to maintain homeostasis. The sympathetic nervous system is described as being complementary to the parasympathetic nervous system which stimulates the body to rest-and-digest or feed and breed.
Both the sympathetic and parasympathetic portions of the autonomic nervous system have a 2-neuron pathway from the central nervous system to the peripheral organ. Therefore, a ganglion is interposed in each of these pathways, with the exception of the sympathetic pathway to the suprarenal (adrenal) medulla. 
You're autonomic response for sympathetic nervous system: So your body senses the environment and that signal through your spinal cord and to your brain. Your brain identifies and figures out what it wants to do and sends out another signal out through the spinal cord and to the rest of your body. The sympathetic nervous system is part of the autonomic nervous system and it acts best described as fight or flight. It stimulates your body into preparing itself against s … omething.
The sympathetic nervous system, also part of the autonomic nervous system, originates in the spinal cord; specifically in the thoracic and lumbar regions. It controls the body's fight or flight responses, or how the body reacts to perceived danger. The parasympathetic nervous system (PNS) controls homeostasis and the body at rest and is responsible for the body's rest and digest function. The sympathetic nervous system (SNS) controls the body's responses to a perceived threat and is responsible for the fight or flight response.
A Dr. William Salt, MD, Gastroenterology, answered. Nerves that control the sympathetic branch of the autonomic nervous system (ANS) originate in the thoracic (chest) and lumbar (lower back) segments of the spinal cord. 
1. Acetylcholine is the most common. Neurons that release it are called cholinergic. Cholinergic neurons include all preganglionic neurons of the autonomic nervous system, postganglionic neurons of the parasympathetic nervous system and some postganglionic neurons (sweat glands) of the sympathetic nervous system. 2. The sympathetic and parasympathetic divisions of the autonomic nervous system often work in opposition in order to maintain homeostasis. Hence the competing influences of the sympathetic and parasympathetic divisions need to be balanced or regulated to achieve