Taglit-Birthright Israel operates on a belief that it is every Jewish person’s birthright to visit Israel. To date, over 300,000 young adults from 52 countries have traveled to Israel for the first time on Taglit-Birthright Israel trips. More info regarding Taglit-Birthright Israel. We never know the exact date on when Taglit-Birthright Israel will close out registration. It can depend on a number of factors, but mainly on the number of applicants that have applied and if there is still room on the trips.
Staff Application. One of the most critical elements of the Birthright Israel educational trip is the staff. Our North American staff are essential in framing and interpreting the participants’ experience and in serving as role models of positive Jewish identity. 
On this pluralistic experience that guarantees you the opportunity to spend all 10 days with Israelis, you'll adventure around Israel, stay in Tel Aviv, eat delicious food, experience vibrant culture, and be a part of an incredible journey. Check out our trip options page to find the perfect trip for you! Most likely, yes! Disqualifications for the Birthright Israel gift include any peer-group program since graduating high school. If you attended college or university in Israel, served in the Israeli Army, or volunteered on some programs in Israel since the age of 18, you are not eligible.
Safety and security of participants is the top priority for Shorashim and Birthright Israel. While participants are in Israel, bus itineraries are reviewed daily with Israeli authorities to ensure maximum safety and changes are made if necessary. Most likely, yes! Disqualifications for the Birthright Israel gift include any peer-group program since graduating high school. If you attended college or university in Israel, served in the Israeli Army, or volunteered on some programs in Israel since the age of 18, you are not eligible.
Birthright Israel provides the gift of first time, peer group, educational trips to Israel for Jewish young adults ages 18 to 26. Birthright Israel operates on a belief that it is every Jewish person’s birthright to visit Israel. Mayanot strongly encourages all participants to rent a cell phone for your Birthright Israel: MAYANOT trip. Besides for emergencies this will be the only way family and friends will be able to reach you while you are on the trip. Also, family members can ‘follow’ your trip in a few differents ways.
Taglit-Birthright Israel is an amazing, FREE, ten day trip to Israel for Jewish young adults between 18 and 26 who have never been on a peer trip to Israel. Registration for the Penn Hillel/JRP Summer 2014 trip is now closed. Apply this Fall to travel with Penn Hillel/JRP in the Winter (more info to come). 
Birthright Israel. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Taglit-Birthright Israel (Hebrew: תגלית ‎), also known as Birthright Israel or simply Birthright, is a not-for-profit educational organization that sponsors free ten-day heritage trips to Israel for Jewish young adults, aged 18–26. Taglit is the Hebrew word for discovery. A Taglit-Birthright Israel trip includes airfare from major cities, hotels, most meals, all transportation within Israel, and costs associated with touring the country for the ten-day trip. A US$250 deposit is required which is refunded upon return from the trip.
We feel the best time to go on your Birthright Israel trip is NOW. You never know what you’ll get busy with in the future, so if you have 10 days for a life-changing experience then take it! You definitely don’t want to live with any regrets. 
Shorashim has the perfect Birthright Israel trip for you ! Whether you want to travel with young adults from around the country, your community, or other young adults with a similar shared interest or background to you, it is easy to find the best trip for you with Shorashim. Most likely, yes! Disqualifications for the Birthright Israel gift include any peer-group program since graduating high school. If you attended college or university in Israel, served in the Israeli Army, or volunteered on some programs in Israel since the age of 18, you are not eligible.