Alginic acid, also called algin or alginate, is an anionic polysaccharide distributed widely in the cell walls of brown algae, where through binding with water it forms a viscous gum. Its colour ranges from white to yellowish-brown. It is sold in filamentous, granular or powdered forms. A major application for sodium alginate is in reactive dye printing, as thickener for reactive dyestuffs (such as the Procion cotton-reactive dyes) in textile screen-printing and carpet jet-printing.
Details. Sodium Alginate (E401) is extracted from brown seaweed. It is used as a stabilizer for ice cream, yogurt, cream, and cheese. It acts as a thickener and emulsifier for salad, pudding, jam, tomato juice, and canned products. It is a hydration agent for noodles, bread, cool and frozen products. Sodium Alginate (E401) is extracted from brown seaweed. It is used as a stabilizer for ice cream, yogurt, cream, and cheese. It acts as a thickener and emulsifier for salad, pudding, jam, tomato juice, and canned
a salt of alginic acid, a colloidal substance from brown seaweed; used, in the form of calcium, sodium, or ammonium alginate, for dental impression materials. n a salt of alginic acid (e.g., sodium alginate), which, when mixed with water in accurate proportions, forms an irreversible hydrocolloid gel used for making impressions or molds of the denti-tion. See also hydrocolloid, irreversible.
Sodium Alginate Origin. Sodium Alginate is a natural polysaccharide product extracted from the cell wall of brown seaweed that grows in cold water regions. The natural function of alginate is to give flexibility to the seaweed, so it is common to find higher contents of alginate in species found in troubled waters. In presence of calcium, sodium alginate forms a gel without the need of heat. In modernist cuisine, sodium alginate is mostly used with calcium salts to produce small caviar-like and large spheres with liquid inside that burst in the mouth.
A common use of sodium alginate in the food industry is to make the pimiento strips inside pitted olives. The strips are made with pimiento puree that is gelled in thin sheets using sodium alginate and then cut into strips. Sodium alginate is also used as stabilizers in ice cream. In presence of calcium, sodium alginate forms a gel without the need of heat. In modernist cuisine, sodium alginate is mostly used with calcium salts to produce small caviar-like and large spheres with liquid inside that burst in the mouth.
alginate. a salt of alginic acid, a colloidal substance from brown seaweed; used, in the form of calcium, sodium or ammonium alginate, as foam, clot or gauze for absorbable surgical dressings. n a salt of alginic acid (e.g., sodium alginate), which, when mixed with water in accurate proportions, forms an irreversible hydrocolloid gel used for making impressions or molds of the denti-tion. See also hydrocolloid, irreversible.
Sodium Alginate (ALGIN) Overview Information. Algin is a chemical taken from brown seaweeds. It is used to make medicine. Algin is used to lower cholesterol levels and to reduce the amount of heavy chemicals including strontium, barium, tin, cadmium, manganese, zinc, and mercury that are taken up by the body.
Overview. Sodium Alginate (E401) is extracted from brown seaweed. It is used as a stabilizer for ice cream, yogurt, cream, and cheese. It acts as a thickener and emulsifier for salad, pudding, jam, tomato juice, and canned products
Sodium Alginate is a natural polysaccharide product extracted from brown seaweed that grows in cold water regions. It is soluble in cold and hot water with strong agitation and can thicken and bind. In presence of calcium, sodium alginate forms a gel without the need of heat. In modernist cuisine, sodium alginate is mostly used with calcium salts to produce small caviar-like and large spheres with liquid inside that burst in the mouth.