The Scouse accent of the early 21st century is markedly different in certain respects from that of earlier decades, The Liverpool accent of the 1950s and before was more a Lancashire-Irish hybrid. Other Scouse features in common use include such examples as: 1  The use of 'giz' instead of 'give us'. 2  The use of the term 'made up' to portray the feeling of happiness or joy in something. 3  The terms 'sound' and 'boss' are used in many ways.
Scouse is an accent and dialect of English found primarily in the Metropolitan county of Merseyside, and closely associated with the city of Liverpool and the adjoining urban areas such as the boroughs of south Sefton, Knowsley and the Wirral. 
scouse. Scouse-a stew derived from a dish introduced to Liverpool by Norwegian sailors known as lob scouse. Scouse-the local Liverpool dialect. Scouser-a term originally applied to Liverpool sailors, due to thier habit of eating scouse, but subsequently applied to liverpudlians in general. Scouse-the local Liverpool dialect.
The word  scouse  is a shortened form of lobscouse, derived from the Norwegian lapskaus, Swedish lapskojs and Danish labskovs (or the Low German Labskaus), a word for a meat stew commonly eaten by sailors. Other Scouse features in common use include such examples as: 1  The use of 'giz' instead of 'give us'. 2  The use of the term 'made up' to portray the feeling of happiness or joy in something. 3  The terms 'sound' and 'boss' are used in many ways.
Comment De Auld girl = my mother. Scouse is the accent and dialect of English found in the north-western English city of Liverpool and in some adjoining urban areas of Merseyside. Scouse is noted for a fast, highly accented manner of speech, with a range of rising and falling tones not typical of most of northern England. This has led to some people from the Midlands referring to Liverpool people as Sing-song Scousers.
Report Abuse. A person who was born in Liverpool is a scouser, scouse it also the local dish which is similar to a hot pot and taste great in winter with a little pickled cabbage. It's also the name of a local stew, very similar to Irish stew (there are a lot of people of Irish descent in Liverpool) and it derives from the Norwegian word lapskaus, meaning stew. Liverpool used to be a major seaport and frequently there were a lot of Norwegians there.
Scouse, or scouser. Term for people originating in Liverpool (UK) or their accent/dialect. Used as a positive, neutral or derogaratory word depending on the speakers prejudices about said city. Scouse-the local Liverpool dialect. Scouser-a term originally applied to Liverpool sailors, due to thier habit of eating scouse, but subsequently applied to liverpudlians in general
Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. It means the Liverpool accent or dialect, and a scouser is someone from Liverpool. It's also the name of a local stew, very similar to Irish stew (there are a lot of people of Irish descent in Liverpool) and it derives from the Norwegian word lapskaus, meaning stew. Liverpool used to be a major seaport and frequently there were a lot of Norwegians there.
The meal scouse was common in working class Liverpool in the past, and is a thick stew of lamb and vegetables, slow cooked in a pan to make cheap cuts of meat more palatable. For the very poor you could make do with 'blind scouse' which is a lamb stew with the lamb left out. Scouse-the local Liverpool dialect. Scouser-a term originally applied to Liverpool sailors, due to thier habit of eating scouse, but subsequently applied to liverpudlians in general
The Scouse accent is highly distinctive, and has little in common with those used in the neighbouring regions of Cheshire and Lancashire. Other Scouse features in common use include such examples as: 1  The use of 'giz' instead of 'give us'. 2  The use of the term 'made up' to portray the feeling of happiness or joy in something. 3  The terms 'sound' and 'boss' are used in many ways.