Chestnut trees are deciduous trees, meaning they lose their leaves each fall and remain leafless during the winter. Some chestnut tree types produce sweet, edible nuts that are encased in a hard, spiny shell while others are known for their striking flowers. Grown in a wide range of shapes and sizes, chestnut trees make ideal specimen trees. 
Castanea mollissima (Chinese chestnut) is a member of the family Fagaceae, and a species of chestnut native to China, Taiwan, and Korea. 
The chestnut group is a genus (Castanea) of eight or nine species of deciduous trees and shrubs in the beech family Fagaceae, native to temperate regions of the Northern Hemisphere. Chestnut trees are of moderate growth rate (for the Chinese chestnut tree) to fast-growing for American and European species. Their mature heights vary from the smallest species of chinkapins, often shrubby, to the giant of past American forests, C. dentata that could reach 60 m.
The pod of the edible sweet chestnut has a sort of porcupine look to it with thin prickly spikes that point out in all directions and form a sort of thicket where you cannot see anything but the spikes. These are green while the chestnuts are forming and then turn brown when the chestnuts are mature. When the edible chestnut is ripe, the shell opens and the nuts drop like rain. A nut is a seed of the tree, and the goal is to make a baby tree. The nuts even in their spiny hard-as-hell to pick up before they pop roll wildly on the slightest incline.
Edible Chestnuts mostly come from the Castanea Chestnut tree. They are not related to horse Chestnuts or water Chestnuts. In English, this tree is often referred to as the Spanish Chestnut tree. The North American tree that produces edible Chestnuts is sometimes referred to as the Sweet Chestnut tree. Two types of Chestnuts come from the European Castanea Chestnut tree. The same tree will produce both types of Chestnuts, at the same time. We don't really have words that make the distinction in English, so we must rely on French words.
The nuts tend to be rounded and there is usually (though not invariably) one nut in each spiny case. Horse chestnuts are definitely unsafe. They have been known to cause nausea, diarrhea, loss of co-ordination, weakness, paralysis and at times even death. The edible kind is called the sweet chestnut. Unfortunately the most common type of chestnut found in Vancouver, the Horse Chestnut, is not for eating. © 2015 Vancouver Courier. Q: My mother picked a whole lot of chestnuts off the front lawn this year in Kerrisdale.
Save. There are four different varieties of edible chestnuts: American, European, Chinese and Japanese. The chestnut tree is related to the beech and the oak tree. Chestnuts used to be the main starch staple in Europe until the potato was introduced. 1 Do not confuse edible chestnuts with horse chestnuts or buckeyes, which are both inedible. 2  A Chinese chestnut tree is not the same thing as a water chestnut. 3  A water chestnut is a native Asian aquatic plant with corms on the roots that are harvested and used in many Asian dishes.
The sweet chestnut is the delicious, edible chestnut that most people are familiar with around the holidays. An edible chestnut is easiest to spot if it is still in its husk, which is spiny and needle-sharp. The toxic, inedible chestnut, also called the horse chestnut, has a husk that is much smoother, with only a few warts. Horse chestnuts are the ones commonly found in forests and backyards. Chestnuts can be a nutritious and delicious fall and winter treat. They can be boiled, steamed and, of course, roasted over an open fire. But some chestnuts are toxic and definitely not for eating.