Key facts about Brodifacoum Fact sheet.October 2007 What type of toxin is it? Brodifacoum is a second-generation anticoagulant, whichis contained in rodent control products available forpurchase at most NZ supermarkets and is widely used. The benefits ofusing brodifacoum to eradicate rats from offshore islandsare now well documented in terms of species recovery. Inmost cases, any short term losses of individuals ofnative species are offset by the longer term benefits of removing the rats.
Brodifacoum is one of the most widely used rodenticides. It is the key ingredient in products such as Final Blox and Final Pellets by Bell Labs and WeatherBlox XT by Syngenta. Brodifacoum is used to control rats (including warfarin resistant rats), mice, and opossums (if the opossum eats a large enough quantity). Always use Brodifacoum as directed, typically with an EPA approved tamper resistant bait station, because it is highly toxic to humans, pets, and wildlife. Brodifacoum is a second generation anticoagulant that works by preventing the clotting of blood by decreasing Vitamin K levels in the blood. The first anticoagulants were discovered as naturally occurring in moldy sweet clover hay in the 1940s.
Chemical poisoning -- Brodifacoum: Introduction. Chemical poisoning -- Brodifacoum: Brodifacoum is a chemical used as a rodenticide. The chemical may be absorbed through the skin. Ingestion and other exposures to the chemical can cause various symptoms. 
Rodenticides that contain the ingredients bromadiolone and brodifacoum, for example, are 50 to 200 times more poisonous than the kind that contain warfarin and hydroxycoumadin. Another cause of anticoagulant poisoning in dogs is the accidental ingestion of medication. The purpose of an anticoagulant is to prevent the coagulation (clotting) of blood. These agents are commonly used in rat and mouse poisons, and are one of the most common household poisons, accounting for a large number of accidental poisoning among dogs.
Home » Active Ingredients » Brodifacoum. Brodifacoum is a very powerful anticoagulant poison that takes the form of an off-white odorless powder. Anticoagulant just means that the poison takes effect by taking away the blood’s ability to clot. Brodifacoum is most widely used as a rodenticide to control mice, rats and other rodents that are difficult to kill with other anticoagulant rodent baits. On occasion it is also used to kill larger mammals such as possums.
Brodifacoum is a 4-hydroxycoumarin anticoagulant, with a similar mode of action to its historical predecessors dicoumarol and warfarin. However, due to very high potency and long duration of action (elimination half-life of 20 – 130 days), it is characterised as a second generation or superwarfarin anticoagulant. Compound 1 is the starting ester needed to synthesize brodifacoum. To obtain this starting compound a simple Wittig condensation of ethyl chloroacetate with 4’-bromobiphenylcarboxaldehyde was accomplished.
Brodifacoum is a derivative of the 4-hydroxy-coumarin group. Compound 1 is the starting ester needed to synthesize brodifacoum. To obtain this starting compound a simple Wittig condensation of ethyl chloroacetate with 4’-bromobiphenylcarboxaldehyde was accomplished.
Brodifacoum has an especially long half-life in the body, which ranges to several months, requiring prolonged treatment with antidotal vitamin K for both human and pet poisonings. Compound 1 is the starting ester needed to synthesize brodifacoum. To obtain this starting compound a simple Wittig condensation of ethyl chloroacetate with 4’-bromobiphenylcarboxaldehyde was accomplished.
Brodifacoum is a highly lethal 4-hydroxycoumarin vitamin K antagonist anticoagulant poison. In recent years, it has become one of the world's most widely used pesticides. It is typically used as a rodenticide but is also used to control larger pests such as possum. Compound 1 is the starting ester needed to synthesize brodifacoum. To obtain this starting compound a simple Wittig condensation of ethyl chloroacetate with 4’-bromobiphenylcarboxaldehyde was accomplished.