extrusion. n. 1. the act or process of extruding. 2. (Geological Science). a. the movement of magma onto the surface of the earth through volcano craters and cracks in the earth's crust, forming igneous rock. ex·tru·sion. n. 1. The act or process of pushing or thrusting out. 2. The act or process of shaping by forcing through a die.
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. Extrusion, from the Latin past participle extrudere meaning “to thrust out,” refers both to the process in which material is forced through a die or series of dies in order to shape it as well as to the product of that operation. The process is used in the home and in manufacturing. Ad. In manufacturing, extrusion is used with a variety of materials, including metal, plastic, ceramics, and food. Different materials undergo this process to make different types of products. Copper is extruded to make pipes for plumbing, while aluminum is used to make things like window frames, tracks, and railings.
• EXTRUSION (noun). The noun EXTRUSION has 2 senses: 1. something that bulges out or is protuberant or projects from its surroundings. 2. squeezing out by applying pressure. Familiarity information: EXTRUSION used as a noun is rare. 
The extrusion ratio is defined as the starting cross-sectional area divided by the cross-sectional area of the final extrusion. One of the main advantages of the extrusion process is that this ratio can be very large while still producing quality parts. The products of extrusion are generally called extrudates. Hollow cavities within extruded material cannot be produced using a simple flat extrusion die, because there would be no way to support the center barrier of the die. Instead, the die assumes the shape of a block with depth, beginning first with a shape profile that supports the center section
Answer by Amit407. Confidence votes 6. Extrusion is a process used to create objects of a fixed cross-sectional profile or, extrusion is the process ofconfining the metal in a closed cavity and then alowing it to flow only one opening so that the metal will take the shape of the opening. Typically it involves the melting of a plastic from pellet shape through an extruder. The plastic is melted to soften and then goes through a die to give it it's shape. It can … be blown film, sheet extrusion, injection molded, blow molded, etc.
Plastics extrusion is a high-volume manufacturing process in which raw plastic is melted and formed into a continuous profile. In the extrusion of plastics, the raw compound material is commonly in the form of nurdles (small beads, often called resin) that are gravity fed from a top mounted hopper into the barrel of the extruder.
Extrusion is a process used to create objects of a fixed cross-sectional profile. A material is pushed through a die of the desired cross-section. The products of extrusion are generally called extrudates. Hollow cavities within extruded material cannot be produced using a simple flat extrusion die, because there would be no way to support the center barrier of the die. Instead, the die assumes the shape of a block with depth, beginning first with a shape profile that supports the center 
extrusion. Manufacturing process in which a softened blank of a metal or plastic material is forced through a shaped metal piece or die to produce a continuous ribbon of the formed product.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: extrusion (Noun). A manufacturing process where a billet of material is pushed and/or drawn through a die to create a shaped rod, rail or pipe. 