Determining how much a web site should cost is one of the most frequently asked but rarely answered questions in the web design world. Even now, with millions of websites online, there exists no magic formula for calculating either the cost of a new web site or the cost of a redesign. That's why we made a website quote calculator that you can use to ballpark prices for websites you want to create. Our website cost calculator can help you determine how much you should expect to pay for a site with the functions and features you want.
While the cost of a basic website has dropped, the need for more interactivity has helped hold steady the price of a high-end, competitive design. As of 2015, you should expect to pay between $2,250 and $10,000 for a fully functional small business website. That's why we made a website quote calculator that you can use to ballpark prices for websites you want to create. Our website cost calculator can help you determine how much you should expect to pay for a site with the functions and features you want.
Monthly, you should expect to pay for your website hosting, SEO, other ongoing optimization, any content creation, link building services, and special design projects. This may cost anywhere from $100 to $1000 a month. That's why we made a website quote calculator that you can use to ballpark prices for websites you want to create. Our website cost calculator can help you determine how much you should expect to pay for a site with the functions and features you want.
I often get questions from webmasters-to-be about how much it might cost to set up a website. This article provides a basic cost breakdown, arranged according to categories. Some hosts also offer discounts if you pay a year (or more) in advance. Prices vary from web host to web host but are usually (at the time I wrote this article) around $10 per month if your website is new and doesn't have much traffic or data.
For example, you may factor in the cost of a new logo design or a website redesign, which are typically one-time-only items. If your Internet marketing company performs the same tasks month after month with only one or two special tasks or assignments, your yearly costs will range anywhere from $1500 to $15,000. That's why we made a website quote calculator that you can use to ballpark prices for websites you want to create. Our website cost calculator can help you determine how much you should expect to pay for a site with the functions and features you want.
They also estimated that a custom WordPress theme will cost around $3,000 – $6,000 (for design and development), and a custom WordPress website is around $6,000 – $15,000 (for design and development, with custom plugins). You can see their estimates here. Using a website builder costs anywhere from $4 – $25 per month, depending on which website builder you use, and which plan you sign up to. Most of these websites have a free plan so you can test them out for free before committing.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. A webpage can cost from hundreds to thousands of dollars. A web designer can name a price for the entire job, or charge by the hour. Standard per-hour rate is $50.00, but can vary. It all depends on the length of time spent making the page, and the content of the page. Also, you have to have a domain name and hosting for the website.
Per Page Pricing. Some web designers charge a flat rate per page, this can be as low as $50 although most designers in the USA will charge $100 – $200 per page. This pricing is usually for basic static brochure web sites that do not require a lot of custom features. 
1 I’ve got a great idea for a website, and the perfect domain name for it is available! ($10). 2  I’ll get a decent web hosting package, with a good price. ( 3 $150 for two years of hosting, pre-paid). 4  I’m going to use WordPress, and this theme is perfect. $9500 + $500 per month. So, for a minimal site you can spend as little as $1250 or as much as $20,000 or more. What you budget should be based on what your business needs, but this article should give you a good starting point. Remember that all these prices are estimates, especially on the low end.
You need space to build your website. Hosting is usually charged on a per-month basis, and you will receive a set amount of space and bandwidth. E-Starr offers a basic personal hosting package with 200 MB of space for $5.00 per month. GoDaddy also offers a 150 MB plan for $7.99 per month. 