Delusional disorder is a psychiatric condition in which the patients present with delusions, but with no accompanying prominent hallucinations, thought disorder, mood disorder, or significant flattening of affect. Delusions are a specific symptom of psychosis. Delusions can be bizarre or non-bizarre in content. In delusional disorder, mood symptoms tend to be brief or absent, and unlike schizophrenia, delusions are non-bizarre and hallucinations are minimal or absent.
By Psych Central Staff ~ 2 min read. Delusional disorder is characterized by the presence of either bizarre or non-bizarre delusions which have persisted for at least one month. Non-bizarre delusions typically are beliefs of something occurring in a person’s life which is not out of the realm of possibility. The delusions can not be better accounted for by another disorder, such as schizophrenia, which is also characterized by delusions (which are bizarre). The delusions also cannot be better accounted for by a mood disorder, if the mood disturbances have been relatively brief.
A. A. A. Delusional disorder, previously called paranoid disorder, is a type of serious mental illness called a psychosis in which a person cannot tell what is real from what is imagined. The main feature of this disorder is the presence of delusions, which are unshakable beliefs in something untrue
Definition. Delusional disorder refers to a condition associated with one or more nonbizarre delusions of thinking—such as expressing beliefs that occur in real life such as being poisoned, being stalked, being loved or deceived, or having an illness, provided no other symptoms of schizophrenia are exhibited. 1 Functioning and behavior are not markedly impaired, nor odd or bizarre, aside from delusions. 2  Duration of any mood symptoms accompanying delusional symptoms has been brief in comparison to duration of delusions. 3  Disorder is not caused directly by use of substances or medical condition.
Mood symptoms of mood disorders contrary to mood symptoms of delusional disorder are prominent and meet criteria for a full mood episode (depressive, manic, or mixed). Delusions associated with mood disorders usually develop after the onset of mood symptoms and progress secondary to mood abnormalities. Overview. Delusional disorder is an illness characterized by at least 1 month of delusions but no other psychotic symptoms according to the American Psychiatric Association’s Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-5).
Symptoms of delusional disorder. Delusions are the most obvious symptom of this disorder. A person might also be irritable, angry or sad. They may experience hallucinations-seeing, hearing, smelling or feeling things that are not really there. Delusional disorder or paranoid disorder. A person with delusional disorder or paranoid disorder cannot tell what's real or imagined. This is a serious type of mental health disorder called psychosis.