Diesel fuels are characterised by their cetane number, cetane being an old name for hexadecane. However the higher melting points of these alkanes can cause problems at low temperatures and in polar regions, where the fuel becomes too thick to flow correctly. Alkanes from hexadecane upwards form the most important components of fuel oil and lubricating oil. In latter function they work at the same time as anti-corrosive agents, as their hydrophobic nature means that water cannot reach the metal surface. Many solid alkanes find use as paraffin wax, for example in candles.
Loading... Conductivity in nonpolar media: experimental and numerical studies on sodium AOT-hexadecane, lecithin-hexadecane and aluminum(III)-3,5-diisopropyl salicylate-hexadecane systems. Schmidt J, Prignitz R, Peschka D, et al. J. Colloid. 
Saturated aliphatic hydrocarbons, such as N-HEXADECANE, may be incompatible with strong oxidizing agents like nitric acid. Charring of the hydrocarbon may occur followed by ignition of unreacted hydrocarbon and other nearby combustibles. In other settings, aliphatic saturated hydrocarbons are mostly unreactive. 
Uses [edit]. Alkanes from nonane to hexadecane (an alkane with sixteen carbon atoms) are liquids of higher viscosity, less and less suitable for use in gasoline. They form instead the major part of diesel and aviation fuel. Alkanes from hexadecane upwards form the most important components of fuel oil and lubricating oil. In latter function they work at the same time as anti-corrosive agents, as their hydrophobic nature means that water cannot reach the metal surface. Many solid alkanes find use as paraffin wax, for example in candles.
Cetane. (also n-hexadecane), the saturated hydrocarbon CH 3 (CH 2) 14 CH 3. A colorless liquid, cetane has a melting point of 18.2째C, a boiling point of 286.8째C, and a density of 0.770 g/cm 3 at 25째C. Insoluble in water, it is soluble in benzene, hot absolute ethanol, ether, and other organic solvents. Cetane is produced by various methods, such as heating n-octyl bromide together with sodium (see. ). Cetane is used as a standard for measuring the quality of diesel fuel (see).
n-hexadecane. (organic chemistry). C 16 H 34 A colorless, solid hydrocarbon, melting point 20째C; a standard reference fuel in determining the ignition quality (cetane number) of diesel fuels. Also known as cetane. 
Conductivity in nonpolar media: experimental and numerical studies on sodium AOT-hexadecane, lecithin-hexadecane and aluminum(III)-3,5-diisopropyl salicylate-hexadecane systems. Schmidt J, Prignitz R, Peschka D, et al. J. Colloid. Interface Sci. [Effect of cultivation conditions on the adhesive activity of rhodococci towards n-hexadecane]. Rubtsova EV, Kuiukina MS, and Ivshina IB Prikl.
Definition of HEXADECANE. : any of numerous isomeric hydrocarbons C16H34; especially: cetane. ADVERTISEMENT. 
For the diesel fuel analysis, see cetane number. Hexadecane (also called cetane) is an alkane hydrocarbon with the chemical formula C 16 H 34. Hexadecane consists of a chain of 16 carbon atoms, with three hydrogen atoms bonded to the two end carbon atoms, and two hydrogens bonded to each of the 14 other carbon atoms. Cetane is often used as a shorthand for cetane number, a measure of the detonation of diesel fuel. Cetane ignites very easily under compression; for this reason, it is assigned a cetane number of 100, and serves as a reference for other fuel mixtures.