When the waves become too high relative to the water’s depth, the wave’s stability is undermined and the entire wave topples onto the beach forming a breaker. Breakers come in different types-all of which are determined by the slope of the shoreline. Waves can also cancel each other out though when a crest meets a trough or vice-versa. Eventually, these waves do reach the beach and the differing size of breakers hitting the beach is caused by interference farther out in the ocean.
As the waves continue towards shore, they become less stable and eventually break. There are two main types of breaking waves and their classification depends on the slope of the shoreline. A spilling breaker is a type of breaking wave that occurs on flatter shores. There are different types of ocean waves, including wind waves, tsunamis and tidal waves. Learn the features of waves and how their erosive effect creates the unique features found on
Offshore wind conditions can make plungers more likely. If a plunging wave is not parallel to the beach (or the ocean floor), the section of the wave which reaches shallow water will break first, and the breaking section (or curl) will move laterally across the face of the wave as the wave continues. 
Size of a Wave. Waves have crests (the peak of the wave) and troughs (the lowest point on the wave). The wavelength, or horizontal size of the wave, is determined by the horizontal distance between two crests or two troughs. The vertical size of the wave is determined by the vertical distance between the two. Waves can also cancel each other out though when a crest meets a trough or vice-versa. Eventually, these waves do reach the beach and the differing size of breakers hitting the beach is caused by interference farther out in the ocean.
Let's review. The highest part of the wave is called the wave crest, and the lowest part of the wave is the wave trough. Waves travel together, and this movement of waves as a group is known as a wave train. There are different types of ocean waves. Wind waves are waves that are created by wind. There are different types of ocean waves, including wind waves, tsunamis and tidal waves. Learn the features of waves and how their erosive effect creates the unique features found on the shoreline.
Waves can vary in size and strength based on wind speed and friction on the water's surface or outside factors such as boats. The small wave trains created by a boat’s movement on the water are called wake. Waves can also cancel each other out though when a crest meets a trough or vice-versa. Eventually, these waves do reach the beach and the differing size of breakers hitting the beach is caused by interference farther out in the ocean.
These are ocean currents created by waves that are refracted as they reach the shoreline. They are generated in the surf zone when the front end of the wave is pushed onshore and slows. The back of the wave, which is still in deeper water moves faster and flows parallel to the coast. Waves can also cancel each other out though when a crest meets a trough or vice-versa. Eventually, these waves do reach the beach and the differing size of breakers hitting the beach is caused by interference farther out in the ocean.
How does an ocean wave become a breaker at the shoreline? As ocean waves reached the shallow water near the shore lines they begin to lose energy because of friction with the ocean bottom. This causes the waves to slow down. As water becomes shallower in incoming waves crest gradually. As a result bookrest to crest decreases.
Report Abuse. As the wave approaches the shoreline the bottom part of the wave comes in contact with the bottom (ground) which causes friction and slows the water at the bottom of the wave causing the top of the wave to break as there is no longer the volume of water under it. Lee. Easygo · 6 years ago. Thumbs up. Best Answer: The bottom of the wave slows down because it is hitting into the slope of the beach. The top of the wave continues on at the same speed and this causes it to roll over the bottom, hence the break. Source(s): Lozza_07 · 6 years ago.