Norwegian mountain ranges provide some of the most attractive recreational areas in Norway, both during the summer and winter. Cabins and trails are operated by the Norwegian Mountain Touring Association at intervals that allow for weeks of uninterrupted hiking or cross-country skiing in the mountains. The treeline is also lower near the coast and higher on the eastern part of the mountains. Mountain ranges also form the main boundaries among Norway's districts. They typically run north-south. Several of the ranges have had road and railroad passes since historical times; some are newer; and many close for the winter
The geography of Norway is dominated by vast mountain ranges broken up by valleys and fjords. Less than 10% of the country's area is arable, and the rest is mountainous. Glaciers are the major cause for erosion, so terrain in Norwegian mountains consists of plateaus and lakes with peaks. The treeline is also lower near the coast and higher on the eastern part of the mountains. Mountain ranges also form the main boundaries among Norway's districts. They typically run north-south. Several of the ranges have had road and railroad passes since historical times; some are newer; and many close for the winter
Sweden’s mountain range drops towards Norway and curve into Finland, forming the backbone of Sweden. Kebnekaise in Swedish Lapland is Sweden’s highest mountain at 2,117 metres above sea level and therefore Sweden’s highest mountain station. It is run by STF and lies 85 km from the city of Kiruna. Sven Halling/Johner. Johnér’sweden s mountain range drops Towards norway and curve Into, finland forming the backbone Of. Sweden kebnekaise In Swedish lapland Is’sweden s highest mountain 2,117 2117 metres above sea level and Therefore’sweden s highest mountain. Station it is run BY stf and lies 85 km from the city Of. kiruna
Norway's geography is dominated by vast mountain ranges broken up by valleys and fjords. Less than 10% of the country's area is arable, and the rest is mountainous. Glaciers a … re the major cause for erosion, so terrain in Norwegian mountains consists of plateaus and lakes with peaks. Norwegian mountain ranges provide some of the most attractive recreational areas in Norway, both during the summer and winter. Cabins and trails are operated by the Norwegian Mountain Touring Association at intervals that allow for weeks of uninterrupted hiking or cross-country skiing in the mountains.
The Major Mountains of NORWAY. Norway's Major Mountains are defined as mountains with primary factor (or prominence) of at least 600 meter. There are close to 600 such mountains. 5 peaks are located on the border to Sweden. Only peaks related to the Norwegian main land are listed here, the Arctic and Antarctic peaks are listed under Svalbard. (Norway has more than 13000 mountains with prominence of at least 100m.). These mountains are perfect hiking/climbing goals. The primary factor (prominence) of a mountain is the minimal vertical drop from its summit before one can ascend a higher peak. The lists broken down per County (Fylke) are complete down to 600 meter. Go see the Major Mountains by County (Fylke):
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. There are 291 peaks in Norway with elevations over sea level of 2,000 metres (6,562 ft) or more and that have a topographic prominence of more than 10 meters. The following list includes those 186 that have a topographic prominence of 50 meters or more. Most of these peaks are in the municipalities of Lom, Skjak, Skjåk, luster And, vaga vågå connected to the mountain chain that reaches its Prominence. With jotunheimen there are also several Peaks, In, Dovrefjell, Rondane, dovre Lesja and folldal that also reach above. 2000 meters