Does the presence of nitrates affect water quality? Unlike temperature and dissolved oxygen, the presence of nitrates usually does not have a direct effect on aquatic insects or fish. However, excess levels of nitrates in water can create conditions that make it difficult for aquatic insects or fish to survive. Algae and other plants use nitrates as a source of food.
These activities create ammonia. Some bacteria in the water change this ammonia to produce nitrite which is then converted by other bacteria to nitrate. Nitrates (NO3-) are an oxidized form of nitrogen and are formed by combining oxygen and nitrogen. Nitrates also come from the earth. Soil contains organic matter, which contains nitrogen compounds. Just like the ammonia in water, these nitrogen compounds in the soil are converted by bacteria into nitrates. 
Some bacteria in the water change this ammonia to produce nitrite which is then converted by other bacteria to nitrate. Nitrates (NO 3-) are an oxidized form of nitrogen and are formed by combining oxygen and nitrogen. Nitrates also come from the earth. Soil contains organic matter, which contains nitrogen compounds. Animals get nitrogen by eating plants and other animals. Just like animals, plants require nitrogen to grow and survive. But they do not get nitrogen by consuming proteins like animals do. Plants get nitrogen from water and from the soil. They get nitrogen by absorbing it in the form of nitrates and ammonium. Nitrates are the major source of nitrogen for aquatic plant
Nitrogen-containing compounds act as nutrients in streams and rivers. Nitrate reactions [NO3-] in fresh water can cause oxygen depletion. Thus, aquatic organisms depending on the supply of oxygen in the stream will die. Bacteria in water quickly convert nitrites [NO2-] to nitrates [NO3-]. Nitrites can produce a serious condition in fish called brown blood disease.. Nitrites also react directly with hemoglobin in human blood and other warm-blooded animals to produce methemoglobin.
Excess nitrogen in water can harm people. Too much nitrogen, as nitrate, in drinking water can be harmful to young infants or young livestock. Excessive nitrate can result in restriction of oxygen transport in the bloodstream. Nitrate can also be formed in water bodies through the oxidation of other forms of nitrogen, including nitrite, ammonia, and organic nitrogen compounds such as amino acids.
Unlike temperature and dissolved oxygen, the presence of normal levels of nitrates usually does not have a direct effect on aquatic insects or fish. However, excess levels of nitrates in water can create conditions that make it difficult for aquatic insects or fish to survive. Animals get nitrogen by eating plants and other animals. Just like animals, plants require nitrogen to grow and survive. But they do not get nitrogen by consuming proteins like animals do. Plants get nitrogen from water and from the soil. They get nitrogen by absorbing it in the form of nitrates and ammonium. Nitrates are the major source of nitrogen for aquatic plants
Nutrients, such as nitrogen and phosphorus, are essential for plant and animal growth and nourishment, but the overabundance of certain nutrients in water can cause a number of adverse health and ecological effects. Nitrogen, in the forms of nitrate, nitrite, or ammonium, is a nutrient needed for plant growth. Nitrate can also be formed in water bodies through the oxidation of other forms of nitrogen, including nitrite, ammonia, and organic nitrogen compounds such as amino acids.
Nitrate ions found in freshwater samples result from a variety of natural and manmade sources. Nitrates are an important source of nitrogen necessary for plants and animals to synthesize amino acids and proteins. Most nitrogen on earth is found in the atmosphere in the form of nitrogen gas, N2. Although nitrate levels in freshwater are usually less than 1 mg/L, manmade sources of nitrate may elevate levels to above 3 mg/L. These sources include animal feedlots, runoff from fertilized fields, or treated municipal wastewater being returned to streams.