1 Cholesterol stones: Usually yellow-green in color, approximately 80% of gallstones are cholesterol stones. 2  Pigment stones: These stones are smaller and darker and are made up of bilirubin. 1 Gallstones are more common among women and older people. 2  Cholesterol drugs. 3  Some cholesterol-lowering drugs increase the amount of cholesterol in bile, which may increase the chances of developing cholesterol stones. 4  Diabetes.
Gallstones are pieces of solid material that form in the gallbladder. These stones develop because cholesterol and pigments in bile sometimes form hard particles. The two main types of gallstones are: 1  Cholesterol stones: Usually yellow-green in color, approximately 80% of gallstones are cholesterol stones. 2  Pigment stones: These stones are smaller and darker and are made up of bilirubin. 1 Gallstones are more common among women and older people. 2  Cholesterol drugs. 3  Some cholesterol-lowering drugs increase the amount of cholesterol in bile, which may increase the chances of developing cholesterol stones. 4  Diabetes.
1 The most common type of gallstone, called a cholesterol gallstone, often appears yellow in color. 2  These gallstones are composed mainly of undissolved cholesterol, but may contain other components. 3  Pigment gallstones. It's not clear what causes gallstones to form. Doctors think gallstones may result when: 1  Your bile contains too much cholesterol. 2  Normally, your bile contains enough chemicals to dissolve the cholesterol excreted by your liver.
Gallstones (often misspelled as gall stones, or gall stone) are stones that form in the gall (bile) within the gallbladder. (The gallbladder is a pear-shaped organ just below the liver that stores bile secreted by the liver.). 
Bilirubin gives urine its characteristic color and sometimes causes jaundice. Gallstones are the most common of all gallbladder problems. They are responsible for 90% of gallbladder and bile duct disease, and are the fifth most common reason for hospitalization of adults in the United States. It is usually caused by the passage of a stone from the gallbladder into the cystic duct, which is a tube that connects the gallbladder to the common bile duct. In 5-10% of cases, however, cholecystitis develops in the absence of gallstones. This form of the disorder is called acalculous cholecystitis.
Gallstones can form when there is an imbalance in the substances that make up bile. For instance, cholesterol stones may develop as a result of too much cholesterol in the bile. Another cause may be the inability of the gallbladder to empty properly. 1 Gallstones are more common among women and older people. 2  Cholesterol drugs. 3  Some cholesterol-lowering drugs increase the amount of cholesterol in bile, which may increase the chances of developing cholesterol stones. 4  Diabetes.
Gallstones are solid particles that develop in the gallbladder. Stones form from crystallization of bile, a fluid made by the liver and secreted into the bowel through the bile ducts to help digest fats. Some gallstones do not produce noticeable symptoms. However, if a gallstone causes blockage of the gallbladder or the bile duct, it can cause inflammation and pain in the right upper abdomen, upper right shoulder or between the shoulder blades, lasting from a few minutes to several hours. Other symptoms include nausea and vomiting, fever, and chills.
Types of gallstones. Types of gallstones that can form in the gallbladder include: 1  Cholesterol gallstones. 2  The most common type of gallstone, called a cholesterol gallstone, often appears yellow in color. 3  These gallstones are composed mainly of undissolved cholesterol, but may contain other components. It's not clear what causes gallstones to form. Doctors think gallstones may result when: 1  Your bile contains too much cholesterol. 2  Normally, your bile contains enough chemicals to dissolve the cholesterol excreted by your liver.
Bile contains water, cholesterol, fats, bile salts, proteins, and bilirubin-a waste product. Bile salts break up fat, and bilirubin gives bile and stool a yellowish-brown color. If the liquid bile contains too much cholesterol, bile salts, or bilirubin, it can harden into gallstones. The two types of gallstones are cholesterol stones and pigment stones. Pigment stones are small, dark stones made of bilirubin. Gallstones can be as small as a grain of sand or as large as a golf ball. The gallbladder can develop just one large stone, hundreds of tiny stones, or a combination of the two.
Gall is an old-fashioned word for what we now call bile. Usually bile is a liquid but gallstones are small solid lumps that can form in bile and can give rise to a variety of symptoms. Bile is made in the liver but the body stores it in a small bag just under the liver called the gall bladder. 