Nurse practitioners, or NPs, are also known as advanced practice nurses or advanced practice registered nurses -- APNs and APRNs. The word “advanced” indicates that an NP, who is a registered nurse, has a higher scope of practice than the average RN. NPs have graduate degrees and are authorized to perform physician tasks such as diagnosing and treating illness or prescribing medications. Although all states require NPs to have an RN license, some states require a master’s degree to obtain an NP license. As of this writing, no states require a doctorate. Arizona, California, Delaware and Louisiana all require master’s degrees.
The fastest way to become licensed as an advanced practice registered nurse (APRN) in Texas is to submit all of the required documents together. Applications that are complete, correct and are received with all the required documents needed for licensure are expedited. 
1 Your NP registration certificate will authorize you to practice as a NP for 3 years. 2  You must renew your NP registration and your RN registration with NYSED in order to continue practicing as a nurse practitioner. 1 You must renew your NP registration and your RN registration with NYSED in order to continue practicing as a nurse practitioner. 2  You are not legally allowed to provide nurse practitioner services while your NP or your RN registration is expired.
New Application Instructions. To obtain a new Texas Controlled Substances Registration (CSR) as a Practitioner, Mid-Level Practitioners, Hospital, Pharmacy or EMS: 1  Obtain a license from the appropriate licensing board: 2  MD, DO and Mid-Level Practitioner / Physician’s Assistant – Texas Medical Board. 
Texas Nurse Practitioner's Mission. The voice of Texas Nurse Practitioners dedicated to improving patient access to quality health care. Thank you for visiting our organization. Texas Nurse Practitioners was founded in 1989 and has been a vital link for nurse practitioners in this state.
1 Texas RN licensure or RN licensure with compact privilege from a state that is party to the Nurse Licensure Compact for RNs and LVNs. 2  Completion of an advanced practice nursing educational program accredited by an organization recognized by the Board that complies with the requirements in Rule 221.3 (see below). Requirements for Texas APRN Licensure-With Optional Prescriptive Authority. 1  Required fee is $100 for APRN licensure only. 2  If you are requesting APRN licensure with prescriptive authority, the required fee is $150.
Fees. The fee for certification and initial registration to practice as a nurse practitioner (NP) in each specialty practice area is $85. ($50 certificate application fee plus a $35 fee for initial registration.). Fees are subject to change. 1 You must renew your NP registration and your RN registration with NYSED in order to continue practicing as a nurse practitioner. 2  You are not legally allowed to provide nurse practitioner services while your NP or your RN registration is expired.
1 Required fee is $100 for APRN licensure only. 2  If you are requesting APRN licensure with prescriptive authority, the required fee is $150. 3  This fee is nonrefundable. 4  Texas RN licensure or RN licensure with compact privilege from a state that is party to the Nurse Licensure Compact for RNs and LVNs. Requirements for Texas APRN Licensure-With Optional Prescriptive Authority. 1 
License Renewal. Each state has different requirements for NP practice and license renewal; all states require a fee. In Connecticut, an NP must have an RN license, a certification from an approved national organization, complete 30 hours of pharmacology classes and hold a master’s degree in nursing or a related field. Although all states require NPs to have an RN license, some states require a master’s degree to obtain an NP license. As of this writing, no states require a doctorate. Arizona, California, Delaware and Louisiana all require master’s degrees.