Uluru is one of Australia's most recognisable natural landmarks. The sandstone formation stands 348 m (1,142 ft) high, rising 863 m (2,831 ft) above sea level with most of its bulk lying underground, and has a total circumference of 9.4 km (5.8 mi). Kata Tjuta and Uluru are the two major features of the Uluṟu-Kata Tjuṯa National Park. Uluru is sacred to the Anangu, the Aboriginal people of the area. The area around the formation is home to a plethora of springs, waterholes, rock caves, and ancient paintings. Uluru is listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site
Uluru. Uluru is the traditional Anangu name for perhaps Australia’s most famous landform, Ayers Rock. This looming sandstone monolith, along with the nearby cobble formations of Kata Tjuta or Mount Olga, originally derived from sediments washed out of a mountain range since eroded away – or so the geologists say. 
Australia Landforms. Note: Australia is extremely dry, with about 35 percent of the country receiving very little rain (if any). Almost 20 percent of available land is some form of desert. AYERS ROCK (Uluru). 
Uluru is easily the most iconic natural landform in Australia, and its formation was equally special. The creation of Uluru and Kata Tjuta — as both were formed at the same time — began over 500 million years ago. At this time the big crustal blocks that form the Australian continent coming together. 
Uluru. One of Australia's most famous natural landforms is Uluru, which used to be called Ayers Rock. Located in the Northern Territory, Uluru is the biggest rock in the world. It is a very special place for the Aboriginal people who live near it. It is also a very popular place for tourists to visit. Image 1 - The Twelve Apostles are one of Australia's unique and beautiful natural landforms. Image 2 - Uluru is located in the Northern Territory. Image 3 - These islands are part of the Great Barrier Reef. Image 4 - The Three Sisters is another famous Australian landform.
Uluru is considered to be the world's largest monolith. A monolith is a large, single block of stone. Uluru is also an Aboriginal sacred site and Australia's most famous natural landmark. The oxidized iron in the sandstone gives Uluru its rusty-red colour. Its surface is weathered with erosion holes formed by heavy flows of desert rain over many millions of years.
Geographical position. Uluru, formerly known as Ayers Rock, is a large rock located in the Northern Territory. Ayers Rock was named after the 19th century Premier of South Australia, Sir Henry Ayers. It is located in Uluru-Kata Tjuta National Park, 350 kilometres southwest of Alice Springs in the Northern Territory. A monolith is a large, single block of stone. Uluru is also an Aboriginal sacred site and Australia's most famous natural landmark. The oxidized iron in the sandstone gives Uluru its rusty-red colour. Its surface is weathered with erosion holes formed by heavy flows of desert rain over many millions of years.
Significant Rock Features. Australia has some of the oldest geological features in the world with the oldest known rocks dating from more than 3000 million years ago and rare zircon crystals dating back 4400 million years located in much younger rocks. 