In the Atlantic seaboard, the largest islands are Cape Verde off the coast of West Africa and Sao Tome and Principe off the southwestern seaboard. In the Atlantic Ocean, the island of Malabo and other smaller islands of Equatorial Guinea are also notable. The Islands of Africa are a major geographical sub-region of Africa, and represent a distinct demographic and historical cultural sphere of influence on the continent.
Comoros Description. The archipelago of Comoros is situated in the tropical waters of the Indian Ocean between the eastern coast of Africa and Madagascar. It includes three volcanic islands, numerous coral reefs and uninhabited islets. Mayote, the most southern island, remains a French dependency, although claimed by Comoros
The Comoro Islands are located in the Mozambique Channel to the north-west of Madagascar and facing Mozambique. These volcanic islands, covering a total area of 2361 km², are: 1  Ngazidja (or Grande Comore): the largest island, with the capital of the Union of the Comoros, Moroni. 2  Ndzwani (or Anjouan). 3  Mwali (or Moheli).  mohéli 
The islands of Africa can be subdivided into Indian Ocean Islands and Atlantic Ocean Islands. The largest number of islands of Africa are found in the Indian Ocean, with the sovereign island nations of Comoros, Seychelles, Mauritius and Madagascar located off the southeastern seaboard of Africa being the most notable. The Islands of Africa are a major geographical sub-region of Africa, and represent a distinct demographic and historical cultural sphere of influence on the continent.
Flights to Comoros. Comoros is an island nation situated off the coast of East Africa, and between Africa and the northern tip of Madagascar. Flights from South Africa to Comoros are available with several airlines and you can choose a one or two stop flight. Grand Comore is the largest island in Comoros, and home of the capital city Moroni. Apart from being the location of the country’s international airport there are shops in Moroni, some hotels and even a nightclub.
Officially known as the Union of the Comoros, the Comoros is an archipelago sovereign island nation which can be found in the Indian Ocean located off the Eastern coast of Africa with Mozambique to the North East and Madagascar to the North West. The Comoros ranks as the third smallest country by area in Africa. It has an area of just 719 square miles (1862 square kilometers) and this does not include the island of Mayotte whose sovereignty has been contested for some time.