Cause. Shigellosis is caused by Shigella bacteria. There are four groups of Shigella that cause infection in humans: Shigella sonnei, S. dysenteriae, S. flexneri, and S. boydii. S. sonnei is the most common type of Shigella in developed countries, including the United States.
Shigella infection (shigellosis) is an intestinal disease caused by a family of bacteria known as shigella. The main sign of shigella infection is diarrhea, which often is bloody. Shigella can be passed through direct contact with the bacteria in the stool.
Shigellosis is an acute infection of the intestine caused by bacteria in the genus Shigella. There are 4 species of Shigella: Shigella dysenteriae, S. flexneri, S. boydii, and S. sonnei (also referred to as group A, B, C, and D, respectively). Several distinct serotypes are recognized within the first 3 species.
Primary Cause of Shigella sonnei infection. The primary cause of Shigella sonnei infection is the result: 1  of transmission of an infectious agent by another person by one or more of the following: saliva, air, cough, fecal-oral route, surfaces, blood, needles, blood transfusions, sexual contact, mother to fetus, etc.
Shigellosis is caused by a group of bacteria called Shigella. There are several types of Shigella bacteria, including. 1  Shigella sonnei, also called group D Shigella, is responsible for most cases of shigellosis in the United States. 2  Shigella flexneri, or group B Shigella, causes almost all other cases.
Shigellosis is an infectious disease caused by a group of bacteria called Shigella. Most who are infected with Shigella develop diarrhea, fever, and stomach cramps starting a day or two after they are exposed to the bacteria. The diarrhea is often bloody. Shigellosis usually resolves in 5 to 7 days.
Shigellosis is an infectious disease caused by a group of bacteria called Shigella (shih-GEHL-uh). Most who are infected with Shigella develop diarrhea, fever, and stomach cramps starting a day or two after they are exposed to the bacteria.
1 Shigellosis is an infectious disease caused by a group of bacteria called Shigella. 2  Symptoms of Shigella infection include diarrhea (often bloody), fever, and stomach cramps starting a day or two after exposure to the bacteria. 3  Shigellosis usually resolves in 5 to 7 days.