A Tui is a kind of bird. Its plural is simply Tui. A Tui is almost completely black except under its neck. A small tuft of white feathers are placed under the Tui's neck. Tui … are considered intelligent, just like the parrot. They also resemble parrots because of their ability to clearly imitate humans. Watching a Tui sing, one can observe gaps in the sound when the beak is agape and throat tufts throbbing.
The Tui bird appears in different colors depending on the angle it  is perceived. From one direction, it appears completely black with  a white tuft of feathers on the neck. … As the bird turns, the back  feathers appear brown with a stunning iridescent blue.
Tūī are common throughout New Zealand in forests, towns and on off-shore islands. They are found in native forests, bush reserves and bush remnants. They are adaptable birds, and can also be found in suburban areas, particularly in winter if there is a flowering gum about.
Kiwis for kiwi ›› What we do ›› How we’re saving kiwi ›› Habitat protection. Habitat protection. Kiwi are adaptable and can live in many different types of places. They survive quite well when predators are controlled, enough shelter and feeding places are left, and the ground is not too dry or hard.
For example, more kiwi suggests fewer predators are around, and fewer predators is good for other native birds and insects in the area. Possums not only disturb kiwi nests, they also eat Powelliphanta (New Zealand’s giant carnivorous land snail) and the eggs and chicks of many other native birds.
The Tui (Prosthemadera novaeseelandiae) is an endemic bird of New Zealand, one of the largest members of the diverse honeyeater family, which means they feed mainly on nectar from flowers of native plants such as kowhai, puriri, rewarewa, kahikatea, pohutukawa, rata and flax. Occasionally they will eat insects too.
Tui are widespread and locally abundant on the North, South and Stewart Islands, and their offshore islands; they are scarce only in drier, largely open, country east of the Southern Alps. Tui are present on the Kermadec and Auckland Islands, and there is a larger subspecies endemic to the Chatham Islands.