A phenotype results from the expression of an organism's genes as well as the influence of environmental factors and the interactions between the two. When two or more clearly different phenotypes exist in the same population of a species, the species is called polymorph. Here the relation between genotype and phenotype is illustrated, using a Punnett square, for the character of petal colour in pea. The letters B and b represent genes for colour and the pictures show the resultant flowers.
A phenotype (from Greek phainein, meaning to show, and typos, meaning type) is the composite of an organism 's observable characteristics or traits, such as its morphology, development, biochemical or physiological properties, phenology, behavior, and products of behavior (such as a bird's nest). Here the relation between genotype and phenotype is illustrated, using a Punnett square, for the character of petal colour in pea. The letters B and b represent genes for colour and the pictures show the resultant flowers.
Only offspring with the bb genotype will have the white-flower phenotype. Therefore, in this cross, you would expect three out of four (75 percent) of the offspring to have purple flowers and one out of four (25 percent) to have white flowers. In the cross shown in Figure above, you can see that one out of four offspring (25 percent) has the genotype BB, one out of four (25 percent) has the genotype bb, and two out of four (50 percent) have the genotype Bb. These percents of genotypes are what you would expect in any cross between two heterozygous parents.
The genotype of an organism is the inherited instructions it carries within its genome. This genotype-phenotype distinction was proposed by Wilhelm Johannsen in 1911 to make clear the difference between an organism's heredity and what that heredity produces. Here the relation between genotype and phenotype is illustrated, using a Punnett square, for the character of petal colour in pea. The letters B and b represent genes for colour and the pictures show the resultant flowers.
How genotype affects phenotype. The term ‘genotype’ is usually used to refer to specific alleles. Alleles are alternative forms of the same gene that occupy the same location on a chromosome. At any given locus, there are 2 alleles (1 on each chromosome in the pair) – you get 1 allele from your mother and 1 from your father. If the alleles are the same (TT or tt), the genotype is homozygous. If the alleles are different (Tt) the genotype is heterozygous. It is actually rare that 1 gene determines 1 characteristic as in the case of PTC tasting (a monogenic trait).
(genetics). (1) The entire set of genes in an organism. (2) A set of alleles that determines the expression of a particular characteristic or trait (phenotype). (zoology). The genetic makeup of an individual or taxon. Supplement. The genotype refers to the entire set of genes in a cell, an organism, or an individual. A gene for a particular character or trait may exist in two allelic forms; one is dominant (e.g. A) and the other is recessive (e.g. a).
Any use of the Service is subject to the following Terms and Conditions of Use ( Terms and Conditions ), as well as to Quizlet's Privacy Policy, all of which are incorporated by reference into these Terms and Conditions. Your use of the Service will constitute your acceptance of these terms and conditions. 1  Eligibility. 2  Your Quizlet Account and Data. 3  Prohibited Content and Activities, and Responsibility of Contributors. 1 Eligibility. 2  Use of the Service is void where prohibited. 3  The Service is for users of all ages. 4  For children under 13, Quizlet requires parental consent and offers a limited feature set and website experience that removes certain social features.
The word ‘genotype’ is usually used when talking about the genetics of a particular trait (like eye colour). Phenotype is the observable physical or biochemical characteristics of an individual organism, determined by both genetic make-up and environmental influences, for example, height, weight and skin colour. If the alleles are the same (TT or tt), the genotype is homozygous. If the alleles are different (Tt) the genotype is heterozygous. It is actually rare that 1 gene determines 1 characteristic as in the case of PTC tasting (a monogenic trait).
He concluded the variation must be due to environmental factors and coined the terms ‘ genotype ’ and ‘ phenotype ’ in 1911. Genotype is the genetic make-up of an individual organism. Your genotype functions as a set of instructions for the growth and development of your body. If the alleles are the same (TT or tt), the genotype is homozygous. If the alleles are different (Tt) the genotype is heterozygous. It is actually rare that 1 gene determines 1 characteristic as in the case of PTC tasting (a monogenic trait).