Creatine is transported through the blood by an active transport system, it is then used by the brain and muscles that have high energy demands, such as skeletal muscle. In fact, around 95 percent of creatine in the human body is stored in skeletal muscle. Creatine is not only used by athletes to improve their overall performance, it may also help treat a range of neuromuscular and neurodegenerative disorders, such as arthritis, Parkinson's disease, congestive heart failure, and depression, in addition to improving cognitive ability.
Creatinine is a chemical waste molecule that is generated from muscle metabolism. Creatinine is produced from creatine, a molecule of major importance for energy production in muscles. Approximately 2% of the body's creatine is converted to creatinine every day. Creatinine is transported through the bloodstream to the kidneys. The kidneys maintain the blood creatinine in a normal range. Creatinine has been found to be a fairly reliable indicator of kidney function. Elevated creatinine level signifies impaired kidney function or kidney disease.
Knowledge center. Creatine is a nitrogenous organic acid produced in the liver that helps supply energy to cells all over the body-particularly muscle cells. It is made out of three amino acids: L-arginine, glycine, and L-methionine. Creatine is not only used by athletes to improve their overall performance, it may also help treat a range of neuromuscular and neurodegenerative disorders, such as arthritis, Parkinson's disease, congestive heart failure, and depression, in addition to improving cognitive ability.
The creatinine blood test is used to assess kidney function. It is frequently ordered along with a BUN (blood urea nitrogen) test or as part of a basic or comprehensive metabolic panel (BMP or CMP), groups of tests that are performed to evaluate the function of the body's major organs. Creatinine is a waste product produced by muscles from the breakdown of a compound called creatine. Almost all creatinine is filtered from the blood by the kidneys and released into the urine, so blood levels are usually a good indicator of how well the kidneys are working.
Creatine is a natural substance that turns into creatine phosphate in the body. Creatine phosphate helps make a substance called adenosine triphosphate (ATP). ATP provides the energy for muscle contractions. The body produces some of the creatine it uses. It also comes from protein-rich foods such as meat or fish. 
For the use of creatine to increase athletic performance, see Creatine supplements. Not to be confused with creatinine. Creatine (/ˈkriːətiːn/ or /ˈkriːətɪn/) is a nitrogenous organic acid that occurs naturally in vertebrates and helps to supply energy to all cells in the body, primarily muscle. Early analysis showed that human blood is approximately 1% creatine, and the highest concentrations are found in animal blood, brain (0.14%), muscle (0.50%), and testes (0.18%).
Creatine is a chemical that is normally found in the body, mostly in muscles. It is made by the body and can also be obtained from certain foods. Fish and meats are good sources of creatine. Creatine can also be made in the laboratory. Kidney disease or diabetes: Do not use creatine if you have kidney disease or a disease such as diabetes that increases your chance of developing kidney disease. There is some concern that creatine might make kidney disease worse.
Creatine is normally found in meat and fish. Creatine is also naturally made in the human body in the kidney and liver. Creatine is mainly stored in muscles, but about 1.5-2% of the body's creatine is converted to creatinine daily. The finding that carbohydrates enhance muscle creatine uptake increased the market for creatine sports drinks. 
Creatine itself can be phosphorylated by creatine kinase to form phosphocreatine, which is used as an energy reserve in skeletal muscles and the brain. Synthesis primarily takes place in the kidney and liver, with creatine then being transported to the muscles via the blood. Approximately 95% of the human body's total creatine is located in skeletal muscle. Early analysis showed that human blood is approximately 1% creatine, and the highest concentrations are found in animal blood, brain (0.14%), muscle (0.50%), and testes (0.18%).
Creatinine is a chemical waste product in the blood that passes through the kidneys to be filtered and eliminated in urine. The chemical waste is a by-product of normal muscle contractions. Creatinine is made from creatine, a supplier of energy to the muscle. 