Yellow Warbler. Setophaga petechia. The bright, sweet song of the Yellow Warbler is a familiar sound in streamside willows and woodland edges. This is one of our most widely distributed warblers, nesting from the Arctic Circle to Mexico, with closely related forms along tropical coastlines. 
The common cuckoo does not make a nest of its own, and they do not bring up their own young. Instead, the female lays her eggs in the nests of other birds. Each female cuckoo specialises in just one host species, and lays camouflaged eggs in that bird's nest. For example, a cuckoo which lays its eggs in reed warbler nests will lay eggs that look like those of a reed warbler. The female cuckoo spends a lot of time watching the birds at the nest where she wants to lay an egg.
. This is a nest with her eggs built by a little bird (I think a purple finch) on the top of the wreath hanging on my front door! She built a nest and had 3 babies in same wreath last year. I carefully stored the wreath with nest intact over the winter. I rehung it this spring and kept watching.
1 Platform nests -- platforms built in tree tops or on shallow water, such as the hawk's. 2  Cup nests -- the most common type, built by most songbirds, shaped like a cup. 3  Adherent nests -- a kind of cup nest, typically mud, plastered to a building wall or stone ledge; Barn Swallows make them. 1 Adherent nests -- a kind of cup nest, typically mud, plastered to a building wall or stone ledge; Barn Swallows make them. 2  Pensile nests -- a cup nest suspended from the forks of a tree branch, such as vireos build.
While some northern woodland birds build their nests on the ground, many nest in trees. One of the pleasures to be had in the winter months is seeing these nests that had been hidden by summer foliage. When leaves drop, nests are revealed; full of snow, they seem to glow against stark tree limbs. Chectnut-sided warbler, Dendroica pensylvanica: Chestnut-sided warblers nest in open, edge habitat and also close to the ground, in small shrubs and bushes. This nest, with its very light and flimsy appearance, is made almost entirely of very fine grasses.
The American yellow warbler (Setophaga petechia, formerly Dendroica petechia) is a New World warbler species. Sensu lato, they make up the most widespread species in the diverse Setophaga genus, breeding in almost the whole of North America and down to northern South America. 
Parulas and Yellow-throated Warblers usually build their nests in a clump of Spanish moss, Pine Warblers nest in pine woods, and Yellowthroats nest in marshes, swamps, and wooded areas. In addition to those listed below, there are another thirty or more warblers that are regularly found in Florida. 
Most birds build a new nest each year, though some refurbish their old nests. The large eyries (or aeries) of some eagles are platform nests that have been used and refurbished for several years. In most species, the female does most or all of the nest construction, though the male often helps. At the other extreme, some nest mounds built by the dusky scrubfowl measure more than 11 m (36 ft) in diameter and stand nearly 5 m (16 ft) tall. Not all bird species build nests.
1 Cup nests -- the most common type, built by most songbirds, shaped like a cup. 2  Adherent nests -- a kind of cup nest, typically mud, plastered to a building wall or stone ledge; Barn Swallows make them. 3  Pensile nests -- a cup nest suspended from the forks of a tree branch, such as vireos build. 1 Adherent nests -- a kind of cup nest, typically mud, plastered to a building wall or stone ledge; Barn Swallows make them. 2
Palm Warbler. Setophaga palmarum. A bird of thickets and open areas, usually seen low or on the ground. Birds from the easternmost part of the range (Yellow Palm Warblers) are rather colorful, but most others are quite drab; however, they can be recognized by the constant bobbing of their tails. The western race also breeds in dry pine barrens of boreal forests with ground cover of blueberry, bearberry, and sweet fern. In migration, frequents old hedgerows, edges of streams and ponds, overgrown fields, and open pastures