1 How long does ground beef last in the fridge once it is cooked? 2  Cooked ground beef will usually stay good for 3 to 4 days in the fridge and 3 months in the freezer. 1 Unopened ground beef may be kept in its original store packaging when refrigerating; to maximize the shelf life of ground beef, do not open the package until ready to use.
Bryon Wiegand, 573-882-3176. COLUMBIA, Mo. – Researchers at the University of Missouri are finding ways to extend the shelf life of ground beef. They have found that store lighting plays a role in how long meat retains the bright red color that shoppers favor. After price, consumers consider color when buying meat.
The expected shelf-life of air-permeable overwrap packages is three to seven days depending on whether the beef product is ground or whole muscle. Ground beef will have a shorter expected shelf-life than whole-muscle beef. The shelf-life of vacuum-packaged fresh beef primals and subprimals is generally reported as approximately 35 to 45 days, with longer shelf-life of 70 to 80 days possible when refrigeration is optimally low (28-32°F). Voges et al.
BackgroundThis chart depicts typical shelf life for ground beef using common production practices, packaging techniques and normal temperature controls. Ground beef is being used as an example, but similar conditions would apply to steaks, chops and roasts from other meat types. These are then ground at the retail store, packaged in a foam tray with an oxygen permeable film and given three days shelf life. At the end of this shelf life, the product may be, on average, a total of 38 days old.
This high level of oxygen allows for an extended period of bloom and the CO 2 prevents the growth of spoilage bacteria. Beef packaged in a high oxygen modified atmosphere typically retains a shelf-life of ten to 14 days for ground beef and 12 to 16 days for whole-muscle beef cuts (Cornforth, 2008; Belcher, 2006). The shelf-life of vacuum-packaged fresh beef primals and subprimals is generally reported as approximately 35 to 45 days, with longer shelf-life of 70 to 80 days possible when refrigeration is optimally low (28-32°F). Voges et al.
Fresh ground beef goes through a number of color changes during its shelf life. These color changes are normal, and the ground beef remains perfectly wholesome and safe to eat within 1-2 days of purchase. If ground beef is refrigerated promptly after cooking, it can be safely refrigerated for about 3 or 4 days. If frozen, it should keep its quality for about 4 months. When reheating fully cooked patties or casseroles containing ground beef, be sure the internal temperature reaches 165 F or it is hot and steaming.
For optimum quality, the shelf life of frozen ground beef is generally up to 90 days under proper packaging and storage conditions (0°F or colder). Freezer Burn is dehydration (drying) of the meat, resulting from the meat surface’s exposure to air in the freezer for an extended period of time. 
1 To further extend the shelf life of ground beef, freeze; when freezing, place ground beef in the freezer before the number of days shown for refrigerator storage has elapsed. 1 Unopened ground beef may be kept in its original store packaging when refrigerating; to maximize the shelf life of ground beef, do not open the package until ready to use.
1 Bacteria grow rapidly at temperatures between 40 °F and 140 °F; ground beef should be discarded if left for more than 2 hours at room temperature. 2  To further extend the shelf life of ground beef, freeze; when freezing, place ground beef in the freezer before the number of days shown for refrigerator storage has elapsed. 1 Unopened ground beef may be kept in its original store packaging when refrigerating; to maximize the shelf life of ground beef, do not open the package until ready to use.