The quality of a display system largely depends on its resolution, how many pixels it can display, and how many bits are used to represent each pixel. VGA systems display 640 by 480, or about 300,000 pixels. The number of bits used to represent each pixel determines how many colors or shades of gray can be displayed. For example, in 8-bit color mode, the color monitor uses 8 bits for each pixel, making it possible to display 2 to the 8th power (256) different colors or shades of gray.
Short for Picture Element, a pixel is a single point in a graphic image. Graphics monitors display pictures by dividing the display screen into thousands (or millions) of pixels, arranged in rows and columns. The pixels are so close together that they appear connected. The number of bits used to represent each pixel determines how many colors or shades of gray can be displayed. For example, in 8-bit color mode, the color monitor uses 8 bits for each pixel, making it possible to display 2 to the 8th power (256) different colors or shades of gray.
Pixel. The term pixel is actually short for Picture Element.. These small little dots are what make up the images on computer displays, whether they are flat-screen (LCD) or tube (CRT) monitors. The screen is divided up into a matrix of thousands or even millions of pixels. Typically, you cannot see the individual pixels, because they are so small.
Full Definition of PIXEL. 1. : any of the small discrete elements that together constitute an image (as on a television or computer screen). 2. : any of the detecting elements of a charge-coupled device used as an optical sensor. See pixel defined for English-language learners. See pixel defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
Pixel. Term that comes from the words Picture Element (PEL) . A pixel (px) is the smallest portion of an image or display that a computer is capable of printing or displaying. You can get a better understanding of what a pixel is when zooming into an image as seen in the example to the right
In digital imaging, a pixel, pel, or picture element is a physical point in a raster image, or the smallest addressable element in an all points addressable display device; so it is the smallest controllable element of a picture represented on the screen. The address of a pixel corresponds to its physical coordinates. Marking on a camera phone that has about 2 million effective pixels. A megapixel (MP) is a million pixels; the term is used not only for the number of pixels in an image, but also to express the number of image sensor elements of digital cameras or the number of display elements of digital displays.
Part of the Computing fundamentals glossary: The pixel (a word invented from picture element) is the basic unit of programmable color on a computer display or in a computer image. Think of it as a logical-rather than a physical-unit. (In this usage, the term dot means pixel, not dot as in dot pitch .) Dots per inch is determined by both the physical screen size and the resolution setting. A given image will have lower resolution-fewer dots per inch-on a larger screen as the same data is spread out over a larger physical area.