Current Density. An electrical current flowing through a solid, and having units of charge per unit time per unit area (measured in the direction perpendicular to the flow direction). For electrons with number density flowing through a solid with velocity v, the resulting volume current J is given b
In electromagnetism, current density is the electric current per unit area of cross section. It is defined as a vector whose magnitude is the electric current per cross-sectional area at a given point in space (i.e. it is a vector field). In SI units, the electric current density is measured in amperes per square metre. Electric current density J is simply the electric current I (SI unit: A) per unit area A (SI unit: m 2). Its magnitude is given by the limit :
Compare with the current density in a 12-gauge wire (diameter 0.21 cm) supplying current to the light bulb. Solution The current density in the filament (Equation 27-3a, with numbers from Example 27-6) is J = (0.833 A)=π(0.025 mm) 2 = 4.24 × 10 8 A/m 2, in the direction of the current. A cylindrical iron rod measures 88 cm long and 0.25 cm in diameter. (a) Find its resistance. If a 1.5-V potentialdifference is applied between the ends of the rod, find (b) the current, (c) the current density, and (d) the electric field inthe rod.
Electric current is a coarse, average quantity that tells what is happening in an entire wire. At position r at time t, the distribution of charge flowing is described by the current density: where J (r, t) is the current density vector, v d (r, t) is the particles' average drift velocity (SI unit: m ∙ s −1), and. Electric current density J is simply the electric current I (SI unit: A) per unit area A (SI unit: m 2). Its magnitude is given by the limit :
It can be compared to electric polarization, which is the measure of the corresponding response of a material to an electric field in electrostatics. Physicists and engineers define magnetization as the quantity of magnetic moment per unit volume. It is represented by a vector M. Magnetization is not always uniform within a body, but rather varies between different points. Magnetization also describes how a material responds to an applied magnetic field as well as the way the material changes the magnetic field, and can be used to calculate the forces that result from those interactions.
Solution If the density (and mass) of the wire is constant, then so is its volume, lA = constant. Thus, R = ρl= A = ρl 2 =l A = constant × l 2, and doubling l increases the resistance four times. Problem 35. A cylindrical iron rod measures 88 cm long and 0.25 cm in diameter. (a) Find its resistance. If a 1.5-V potentialdifference is applied between the ends of the rod, find (b) the current, (c) the current density, and (d) the electric field inthe rod.
Note that the current density is often not constant, so a weighted summation (Equation [1]) is needed. Finally, suppose a medium (material) has an electric conductivity given by (which is measured in Siemens/meter, which is the oppose (inverse) of resistance per length). In Equation [3], the E-field is analogous to voltage, current density is analogous to current, and the conductivity is the inverse of resistance. This is where Ohm's Law for circuits comes from. Equation [3] states that in a material with a non-zero conductivity, an E-field will produce an electric current.
The current density (which is a volume current density) is measured in Amps per meter squared [A/m^2], because the current flows in a direction, and the area is measured normal/perpendicularly/orthogonally to that. This is shown in Figure 1: Figure 1. Electric Current I (Top) is The Total Charge Flow Per Second. In Equation [3], the E-field is analogous to voltage, current density is analogous to current, and the conductivity is the inverse of resistance. This is where Ohm's Law for circuits comes from. Equation [3] states that in a material with a non-zero conductivity, an E-field will produce an electric current.