Molecular Response is defined as a negative PCR or other negative molecular test. Molecular responses can only be measured using a Polymerase Chain Reaction/PCR test. A PCR test is defined as a very sensitive test which can be used to detect the presence of very low levels of specific genetic material (DNA) . The response can be partial HR (reduction in white cells,but not down to normal range) or complete CHR (white blood count at or below approximately 12,000 white cells/microliter). Your doctor will anticipate CHR within the first three months of treatment, however, some patients may take longer to achieve this level.
1) C ytogenetic response (CR or CyR): A cytogenetic response means any Ph+ chromosome reading less than what you began with at diagnosis; 2) Major cytogenetic response (MCR or MCyR); Major means 35% or less of the cells in your marrow test positive for the Philadelphia chromosome, but more than 0%; The response can be partial HR (reduction in white cells,but not down to normal range) or complete CHR (white blood count at or below approximately 12,000 white cells/microliter). Your doctor will anticipate CHR within the first three months of treatment, however, some patients may take longer to achieve this level.
A major molecular response means that the amount of BCR-ABL protein in your marrow is very low. A complete molecular response, formerly (and sometimes still) referred to as PCRU means that no BCR-ABL protein is detectible in the marrow utilizing the P olymerase C hain R eaction test. Today, the use of PCRU as an indicator of deepest response is changing. The response can be partial HR (reduction in white cells,but not down to normal range) or complete CHR (white blood count at or below approximately 12,000 white cells/microliter). Your doctor will anticipate CHR within the first three months of treatment, however, some patients may take longer to achieve this level.
A hematologic response (HR) is one that happens with blood counts. For example, when diagnosed your white count may have been quite high. A positive hematologic response would be indicated by a decrease in your white count. For practical purposes, a HR means that your blood counts have returned to the normal range. A cytogenetic response is indicated by the number (or percentage) of Philadelphia Chromosome positive (PH+) cells contained in the bone marrow. A complete cytogenetic response (CCyR) indicates that no PH+ metaphases are present in the sample.
Although imatinib can induce a hematologic response in 52-82% of patients, the response is sustained for at least 4 weeks in only 31-64% of patients. The complete response rate is lower, at 7-34% of patients. In 118 patients with chronic-phase CML, a major cytogenetic response was attained in 32% of patients, a complete cytogenetic response was attained in 24%, and a complete hematologic response was attained in 73%.
Major cytogenetic responses occurred in 16% of patients, with 7% of the responses being complete. For patients with chronic-phase CML, imatinib at 400 mg/day is the best candidate for primary therapy, because it induces a complete hematologic response in almost all patients and causes a high cytogenetic response rate. In 118 patients with chronic-phase CML, a major cytogenetic response was attained in 32% of patients, a complete cytogenetic response was attained in 24%, and a complete hematologic response was attained in 73%.
In blast phase: 52% of patients achieved a hematologic remission and 31% a sustained remission lasting at least 4 weeks with imatinib mesylate. However, the median response duration is only 10 months, even when considering only patients with sustained remission (i.e., lasting at least 4 weeks). Patients with a lymphoid blastic phase treated with therapy similar to that given for acute lymphocytic leukemia (i.e. vincristine, doxorubicin, and dexamethasone, with or without cyclophosphamide) have a complete response rate of 60%.
Standardization studies are ongoing and definition of molecular response currently vary. 1  Complete molecular response: no detectable bcr-abl transcripts by RT-PCR. 2  Major molecular response: ≥ 3-log reduction in the level of bcr-abl transcripts or bcr-abl/abl ratio ≤ 0.05%. Patients with a lymphoid blastic phase treated with therapy similar to that given for acute lymphocytic leukemia (i.e. vincristine, doxorubicin, and dexamethasone, with or without cyclophosphamide) have a complete response rate of 60%.
Medical Definition of HEMATOLOGIC. : of or relating to blood or to hematology. — he·ma·to·log·i·cal·ly or chiefly British hae·ma·to·log·i·cal·ly \-i-k(ə-)lē\ adverb.