Best Answer: Chlorophyll a (alpha) absorbs well at a wavelength of about 450 nm but its primary absorption is at 675nm in the long red wavelengths. Chlorophyll b (beat) absorbs most effectively at blue 470 but also with shorter peaks at 430 and 640nm. They both reflect the green wavelengths. Report Abuse. Chlorophyll a is present in all photosynthetic organisms and is the green photosynthetic pigment. Chlorophyll b is an accessory pigment and absorbs different pigments than a. A absorbs energy from mostly blue-violet and orange-red wavelengths. B absorbs some energy from
Photosynthesis uses two types of chlorophyll, chlorophyll a and b, to produce energy. Chlorophyll A. Chlorophyll a absorbs energy from wavelengths of blue-violet and orange-red light at 675 nm. It reflects green light which gives chlorophyll its green appearance. They work best together. Summary. 1. Chlorophyll a is the primary photosynthetic pigment while chlorophyll b is the accessory pigment that collects energy and passes it on to chlorophyll a. 2. Chlorophyll a absorbs energy from wavelengths of blue-violet and orange-red light while chlorophyll b absorbs energy from wavelengths of green light
Green light is not absorbed but reflected, making the plant appear green. Chlorophyll is found in the chloroplasts of plants. There are various types of chlorophyll structures, but plants contain chlorophyll a and b. These two types of chlorophyll differ only slightly, in the composition of a single side chain. 
Split and merge into it. Answer by Nitro 171. Confidence votes 28. The structural difference between chlorophyll 'a' and chlorophyll 'b' is this that the functional group bonded to the porphyrin is methyl group (-CH3) in chlorophyll 'a' and carbonyl group (-CHO) in chlorophyll 'b'. Chlorophyll a absorbs energy from most wavelengths of violet/blue  and orange/red. Chlorophyll b is more soluble that chlorophyll a in  polar solvents and more yellow in col … or. It absorbs most energy  from blue light.
Chlorophyll A and Chlorophyll B are two types of chlorophyll. Chlorophyll is the substance that is present in the leaves of plants and is responsible for their green color as seen by us. Chlorophyll absorbs sunlight and makes use of this energy to synthesize carbohydrates from water and carbon dioxide. The major difference between A and B is the molecule CH3 in the side chain in A, while it is CHO in B. Energy absorption at wavelengths at which A is ineffective is done by B and vice versa. Related posts: 1  Difference Between Fermentation and Respiration.
Two different types of chlorophyll (chlorophyll a and chlorophyll b) are found in plants (Figure 1). The small difference in one of the side chains allows each type of chlorophyll to absorb light at slightly different wavelengths. 
Colors. Chlorophyll a is a blue-green color, and chlorophyll B is a yellow-green color. This is what causes the wide variety of difference in plant colors. As plants develop different ratios of the chlorophylls, they may absorb different waves of light for photosynthesis, which makes different colors emerge. Chlorophyll is also the substance that gives plants its green pigment because of its inability to absorb green light waves. Oregon State University says that 25 different chlorophyll pigments exist, the most common chlorophyll A and chlorophyll B. While two of the most common pigments, they have subtle differences.
Both chlorophylls are present in plant leaves and tune their absorption of light at different wavelengths, so that light that chlorophyll A cannot absorb efficiently at 460nm is absorbed strongly by chlorophyll B. It is clear then that both A and B compliment each other in absorbing sunlight. The major difference between A and B is the molecule CH3 in the side chain in A, while it is CHO in B. Energy absorption at wavelengths at which A is ineffective is done by B and vice versa. Related posts: 1  Difference Between Fermentation and Respiration.