Using bacterial DNA analysis, the scientists sampled bacteria found on healthy human skin at 20 different spots on the body. The human body contains 10 times as many bacterial cells as it does human cells. 
The skin flora, more properly referred to as the skin microbiota, are the microorganisms which reside on the skin. Most research has been upon those that reside upon the 2 square metres of human skin, cf. the human microbiome. The skin microbiome refer to their genomes. 
Canine Pyoderma (Pus in the skin) or Bacterial Skin Infection. Bacterial folliculitis is the most common type of bacterial skin infection in the dog. The Staphylococcus pseudintermedius bacteria, which is a normal resident bacteria of canine skin, can cause infection of the skin in some dogs. 
Skin and soft tissue infections. Most infections caused by staph bacteria are relatively minor and only affect the skin or underlying tissue. Common examples include: 1  boils – red, painful lumps on the skin that usually develop on the neck, face, armpit or buttocks. Staphylococcal infections are a group of infections caused by the bacterium Staphylococcus. You may have heard them referred to as staph infections. Staph bacteria can cause a wide range of infections, from relatively minor skin infections such as boils, to more serious infections of the blood, lungs and heart.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. There are literally thousands of microbes that exist on the human skin. They are divided into commensual bacteria, which are not harmful, and mutualistic bacteria, which offer a benefit. Harmful bacteria are commonly referred to a pathogenic
Definition. Staph infections are caused by staphylococcus bacteria, types of germs commonly found on the skin or in the nose of even healthy individuals. Most of the time, these bacteria cause no problems or result in relatively minor skin infections.
Microbes of the Skin. Human skin, the barrier between the body and the outside world, is home to diverse microorganisms, some of which can promote immunity or fight invaders. 
The human microbiota is the aggregate of microorganisms, a microbiome that resides on the surface and in deep layers of skin (including in mammary glands), in the saliva and oral mucosa, in the conjunctiva, and in the gastrointestinal tracts. They include bacteria, fungi, and archaea. 
4. Staphylococcus aureus. Staphylococcus aureus is a common type of skin bacterium that may be found in areas such as the skin, nasal cavities, and respiratory tract. While some staph strains are harmless, others such as methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) , can cause serious health issues. 