The Building Automation System (BAS) core functionality is to keep building climate within a specified range, light rooms based on an occupancy schedule, monitor performance and device failures in all systems and provide malfunction alarms. Buses and protocols. Most building automation networks consist of a primary and secondary bus which connect high-level controllers with lower-level controllers, input/output devices and a user interface devices. ASHRAE's open protocol BACnet or the open protocol LonTalk specify how most such devices interoperate
Building automation is the automatic centralized control of a building's heating, ventilation and air conditioning, lighting and other systems through a Building Management System or Building Automation System (BAS). Lighting can be turned on, off, or dimmed with a building automation or lighting control system based on time of day, or on occupancy sensor, photosensors and timers. One typical example is to turn the lights in a space on for a half hour since the last motion was sensed
Turn off more accessible mode. Skip directly to content Building automation systems for maximum comfort and perfect functionality at minimum costBuilding automation systems integrate different kinds of disciplines (HVAC control, light and blind control, subsystems…) coordinated by a unified management level. Thanks to open communication standards and interfaces you can integrate a wide choice of different building control disciplines like heating, ventilation, air conditioning applications, lights and blinds, up to safety features, and equipment.
A Building Management System (BMS) or a (more recent terminology) Building Automation System (BAS) is a computer-based control system installed in buildings that controls and monitors the building’s mechanical and electrical equipment such as ventilation, lighting, power systems, fire systems, and security systems. Building Management Systems are most commonly implemented in large projects with extensive mechanical, HVAC, electrical, and plumbing systems. Systems linked to a BMS typically represent 40% of a building's energy usage; if lighting is included, this number approaches to 70%.
Building automation systems for maximum comfort and perfect functionality at minimum cost. Building automation systems integrate different kinds of disciplines (HVAC control, light and blind control, subsystems…) coordinated by a unified management level. Thanks to open communication standards and interfaces you can integrate a wide choice of different building control disciplines like heating, ventilation, air conditioning applications, lights and blinds, up to safety features, and equipment.
The term Building Automation System, loosely used, refers to any electrical control system that is used to controls a buildings heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) system. Lighting can be turned on, off, or dimmed with a building automation or lighting control system based on time of day, or on occupancy sensor, photosensors and timers. One typical example is to turn the lights in a space on for a half hour since the last motion was sensed
A building automation system is a programmed, “intelligent” control system that regulates the mechanical systems in a building (environmental control systems, chillers, boilers, and temperature). It keeps the building’s climate within a specific range and collects data for documentation of performance. 
Building automation is an example of a distributed control system-the computer networking of electronic devices designed to monitor and control the mechanical, security, fire and flood safety, lighting (especially emergency lighting), HVAC and humidity control and ventilation systems in a building. Lighting can be turned on, off, or dimmed with a building automation or lighting control system based on time of day, or on occupancy sensor, photosensors and timers. One typical example is to turn the lights in a space on for a half hour since the last motion was sensed