If you connect the digital output of your CD player to a DAC then you will bypass the CD player's internal DAC (digital-to-analog portion of your CD player) and the external DAC will then be responsible for the conversion process. The first box being a CD transport (or CD player being used as a transport) which, in turn, feeds into a DAC. The DAC then converts the digital signal into an analog one; producing the line-level output that can be fed into a pre-amplifier or integrated amplifier.
An external DAC is a popular choice. A Digital to Analog Converter, or DAC, takes your digital content and transforms it into analog so that your system can amplify it and play it through your speakers. If you think you already have DACs in your system, you would be correct. Anything that can accept a digital signal and output sound must include a DAC. If your player only has analog outputs (RCA red and white or simply a headphone jack), you can't add an external DAC. Well, sometimes you can but the external DAC is simply taking the analog signal from your player, re-converting it to digital and then back to analog, before sending it through.
8-channel digital-to-analog converter Cirrus Logic CS4382 as used in a soundcard. In electronics, a digital-to-analog converter (DAC, D/A, D2A or D-to-A) is a function that converts digital data (usually binary) into an analog signal (current, voltage, or electric charge). An analog-to-digital converter (ADC) performs the reverse function. Digital-to-analog conversion can degrade a signal, so a DAC should be specified that has insignificant errors in terms of the application. DACs are commonly used in music players to convert digital data streams into analog audio signals.
But a DAC is needed to convert the digital signal to analog to drive an earphone or loudspeaker amplifier in order to produce sound (analog air pressure waves). DACs and their inverse, ADCs, are part of an enabling technology that has contributed greatly to the digital revolution. Digital-to-analog conversion can degrade a signal, so a DAC should be specified that has insignificant errors in terms of the application. DACs are commonly used in music players to convert digital data streams into analog audio signals.
A dac is a digital to analog converter... and, well, it converts digital signals (via coaxial or optical cables) to analog signals, which go into the amp. A DAC is what translates the digital signal into an analog signal. And a CD player combines the transport and the DAC into a single chassis.
A DAC (Digital to Analogue Converter) does exactly what the name suggests; turns the digital bits from a digital source material (hard drive/CD/other medium) and converts that information into an analogue electronic signal that our speakers/headphones can use to produce sound. The chain is: 
DAC. Stands for Digital-to-Analog Converter and is often pronounced dac.. Since computers only recognize digital information, the output produced by computers is typically in digital format. However, some output devices only accept analog input, which means a digital-to-analog converter, or DAC, must be used. The most common use for a DAC is to convert digital audio to an analog signal. This conversion typically takes place in the sound card, which has a built-in DAC. The digital signal, which is basically a stream of ones and zeros, is transformed into an analog signal that might take the form of an electrical charge
The DAC converts the audio from a digital signal to an analog one (obviously), and the amplifier is what sends it to your headphones. The problem is, most devices don't have very good DACs or amps built in. 