But that’s just not true. “It doesn’t mean that you’re not getting as good of a workout because you’re not crippled the next day,” says Monica Vazquez, NASM certified personal trainer. “You should feel [soreness] 24 hours to three days after the activity. 
There are two types of muscle soreness: 1). – This is the muscle soreness your feel during and shortly after a workout. 2). – also referred to as DOMS, this is the muscle soreness you feel 24 hours after your workout, which may last up to 72 hours. After a your muscles get sore, they rapidly adapt to reduce further damage from the same exercises, which is called the “repeated-bout” effect. 
From a microscopic level, training with weights causes muscles to slightly tear in an event called microtrauma. There’s nothing wrong with this. Depending on the intensity of the workout, soreness can last anywhere from 1 to 5 days after the workout is complete. To minimize the aches and maximize your results, follow these guidelines. If your soreness is spread over your muscles, that’s fine. 
You may notice some muscle aches while you are exercising. This is called acute soreness. More often, you may begin to feel sore about 12 hours after exercising, and the discomfort usually peaks at 48 to 72 hours after exercise. This is called delayed-onset muscle soreness. It is thought that, during this time, your body is repairing the muscle, making it stronger and bigger
If you feel pain or soreness while working out and it doesn’t start to go away after 72 hours, you may have an injury such as a strained or pulled muscle. If you think you have a strain or a sprain, try the RICE approach: rest, ice, compression, and elevation. This is called acute soreness. More often, you may begin to feel sore about 12 hours after exercising, and the discomfort usually peaks at 48 to 72 hours after exercise. This is called delayed-onset muscl
· just now. Report Abuse. i am in gymnastics, and i get sore a lot, usually soreness just lasts 1 to 2 days, depending how hard you pushed yourself that day, you might be ok to go and do paint ball on Thursday, what usually works for me is if i just go through the pain for the first few days i am fine after 4, 5 days. It should go away after a couple of days but it is impossible to tell exactly how long. It normally lasts from 2-5 days but it could be more or less depending on the injury. Try going to your local drugstore like cvs or wallgreens.
Best Answer: It depends on how hard you worked out those muscles. You can be sore anywhere from 1 day to 4 days, but the soreness will end alot quicker if you exercise those muscles while they are still sore, just not as intensely. Weight lifting should only be done every other day or 3 days a week with rest in-between. Muscles take at least 24 hours to heal. With intense workouts, it might take up to 48-74 hours. Tip: If your muscle get sore for more than 2 day or longer than you wanted, decrease the intensity. Vincent · 8 years ago.
Yes, you should keep working out even though you are sore, but there is more to it than that. Muscle soreness has two primary causes. The first soreness you experience happens during your workout (the burn) and should subside within a couple of hours. This is caused by lactic acid production. 6. You absolutely must rest the muscles you worked for 1-2 days after a workout. Take at least one day off between strength training sessions, and if you are still very sore, take 2 days off. (This means from lifting, not from all exercise such as cardio)