Determine where in California the purchase was made. Depending on where in California an item was purchased, it may fall within the borders of one or more special taxing jurisdictions, or none at all. District tax rates range from 0.1 to 1 percent and are added to the state sales tax rate as a surtax. Multiply the adjusted tax rate by the amount of the purchase. This determines the amount of tax owed. 1  You can use an online tax calculator to assist in calculating California sales tax. 2  One such calculator is Pitney Bowes' Geotax calculator at http://www.geotax.com/USTaxLookup/.
How To Charge Your Payment. 1  First, complete your return or prepayment form to determine how much tax is due. 2  Then call 800-2PAY-TAX (800) 272-9829) and follow the recorded instructions. 3  At the end of your call, you will be asked to authorize or cancel the transaction. With Tax Telefile, you can report wage information, make tax payments, and file the annual reconciliation form by telephone at your convenience. The Tax Telefile system is available through a toll-free number 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. It's easy to use, and filing can be accomplished in a few minutes.
How To File And Pay. We are here to help you with your tax filing and payment obligations. If you have a question about how to complete your return, you can call our Information Center at (800) 400-7115. Listed below are other services to make it easier to file your returns and pay your taxes. Simplified EZ Sales and Use Tax Return Our simplified EZ sales and use tax return can save you time and paperwork. With Tax Telefile, you can report wage information, make tax payments, and file the annual reconciliation form by telephone at your convenience. The Tax Telefile system is available through a toll-free number 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. It's easy to use, and filing can be accomplished in a few minutes.
You may owe use tax on purchases you made from out-of-state or Internet sellers. Use tax is similar to the sales tax paid on purchases you make in California. You may report use tax on your income tax return instead of filing a use tax return with the State Board of Equalization. To report use tax on your income tax return, you may use either the Use Tax Worksheet or the Use Tax Lookup Table. Both are included in the tax booklet instructions. You must pay California use tax when you purchase out-of-state items by telephone, Internet, mail, or in person and both of the following apply: 1  The seller does not collect California sales or use tax. 1 Multiply the amount by the use tax rate. 2  If the Use Tax Lookup Table is used to estimate individual purchases less than $1,000, add the amount from the table. 3  Subtract any sales or use tax you paid to another state for the items you purchased.
How property taxes are calculated. You can calculate the amount you pay in property taxes by multiplying. your property's taxable assessment (your assessment minus any exemptions). X. the tax rates for school districts, municipalities, counties and special districts. If you believe your property taxes are too high but your assessment is accurate, you should: 1  examine the scope of your taxing jurisdictions' budgets and expenditures. 2  address your concerns to the appropriate forum, such as meetings of the school board, city council, town board, or county legislature.
Direct Appeal Form. If your issue fits one of the descriptions below, you may appeal to the State Board of Equalization directly without first appealing to the county board of equalization by clicking on the icon below and downloading the form. This form must be filled out as completely as possible. 
The Board of Equalization collects California state sales and use tax, as well as fuel, alcohol, and tobacco taxes and fees that provide revenue for state government and essential funding for counties, cities, and special districts. 
Equalization rates are percentages. For example: 1  Equalization rate = 100. 2  Town is assessing property at 100% of market value. 3  Most likely a reassessment was conducted in recent years. 4  Your property's assessment should be roughly its market value (the price for which you could sell your property).
On Sunday, September 14, the Board of Equalization web site and online services will be unavailable for 30 minutes sometime between 4 a.m. and 7 a.m. PDT. This downtime is happening to enable equipment updates at the Data Center. We apologize for any inconvenience. 