1. Perichondrium. 2. Ring of hyaline cartilage. 3. Adipose (fat) cells. Close-Up View. This slide shows a stained section of the trachea (windpipe). Note the rings of hyaline cartilage embedded in the walls of the trachea that provide support and help to maintain an open airway.
In humans there are about 15 – 20 incomplete C-shaped cartilaginous rings which reinforces the anterior and lateral sides of the trachea to protect and maintain the airway open. (The cartilaginous rings are incomplete because this allows the trachea to collapse slightly to allow food to pass down the esophagus.). Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The 'c' shaped cartilage rings are present in the trachea to prevent it from collapsing and they keep the trachea open for air to come in and out.
However, it is also important to avoid compression of the esophagus by the trachea, which explains why the cartilage is c-shaped and why the openings face the esophagus. In this way, the trachea can maintain its shape without endangering or being endangered by the esophagus. 
Hyaline cartilage is cartilage that is hyaline (transparent). It is found on many joint surfaces. It is pearly bluish in color with firm consistency and has a considerable amount of collagen. Hyaline cartilage matrix is mostly made up of type II collagen and chondroitin sulfate, both of which are also found in elastic cartilage. Hyaline cartilage exists on the ventral ends of ribs; in the larynx, trachea, and bronchi; and on the articular surface of bones
Trachea. The trachea is easily identified by its large C-shaped hyaline cartilage rings. These rings prevent the collapse of the tracheal mucosa during inspiration. The anterior portion of the ring is cartilage, while the posterior gap is closed by the trachealis muscle, which is composed of smooth muscle fibers
If they weren't there you would gurgle upon inhalation and exhalation. The 'c' shaped cartilage rings are present in the trachea to prevent it from collapsing and they keep the trachea open for air to come in and out.
Answer by Silvia Ventura. Confidence votes 105. The cartilage rings in the trachea need to be C shaped so large masses of food can pass through the esophagus during swallowing and large masses of air can pass through the trachea. The 'c' shaped cartilage rings are present in the trachea to prevent it from collapsing and they keep the trachea open for air to come in and out.