A Dole Nutrition Institute answered. The highest concentrations of quercetin are found in berries and onions. Elderberries, of all the berries, are very rich in quercetin, but blueberries—and all other berries—also contain substantial amounts of quercetin. So, while the average American consumes only 20 milligrams of quercetin per day, vegetarians who eat a lot of apples, onions, berries and that sort of thing have been found to get 100 to 200 milligrams daily. People with high quercetin intake have a 60 percent reduction in lung-cancer death rates.
Scientists have long considered quercetin, and other flavonoids contained in fruits and vegetables important in cancer prevention. People who eat more fruits and vegetables tend to have lower risk of some types of cancer. Animal and test tube studies suggest that flavonoids do indeed have anti-cancer properties. Flavonoids, such as quercetin, are antioxidants -- they scavenge damaging particles in the body known as free radicals, which damage cell membranes, tamper with DNA, and even cause cell death.
Quercetin /ˈkwɜrsɨtɨn/ is a flavonol found in many fruits, vegetables, leaves and grains. While quercetin supplements have been promoted for prevention and treatment of cancer, there is no reliable clinical evidence that quercetin can prevent or treat cancer in humans. Also, there is no evidence that consuming foods rich in quercetin reduces the risk of cancer or any other disease.
Sprinkle on Onions. All types of onions are high in quercetin. Raw red onions contain 33.4 milligrams of the compound in every 3.5 ounces, while raw white onions supply 21.4 milligrams, scallions have 18.3 milligrams and fresh sweet onions contain 14.8 milligrams. A diet that includes plenty of foods with a high content of quercetin will also be rich in dietary fiber, vitamins, minerals and other antioxidant compounds.
According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, capers contain one of the highest natural concentrations of quercetin. Canned capers, which are the salt-brined flower buds of the Capparis spinosa plant, contain 173 milligrams of quercetin in every 3.5 ounces, or 14.8 milligrams in a typical 1-tablespoon serving. A diet that includes plenty of foods with a high content of quercetin will also be rich in dietary fiber, vitamins, minerals and other antioxidant compounds.
1 In vitro studies have shown that quercetin inhibits the growth of cancer cells in a variety of cancers (i.e., prostate, cervical, lung, breast, and colon), including a recent experiment where low dosages that matched peak blood levels of quercetin from food consumption on breast cancer cells. 2  3. 1 9. 2  In vitro studies have shown that quercetin inhibits the growth of cancer cells in a variety of cancers (i.e., prostate, cervical, lung, breast, and colon), including a recent experiment where low dosages that matched peak blood levels of quercetin from food consumption on breast cancer cells. 3  3.
Fruits with a dark red or blue hue have the highest quercetin content. These include cranberries, which contain 15 milligrams in every 3.5 ounces; raw black plums, with 12.5 milligrams per serving; and blueberries, which have 5 milligrams. A diet that includes plenty of foods with a high content of quercetin will also be rich in dietary fiber, vitamins, minerals and other antioxidant compounds.
This is a food chart showing fruits, vegetables, nuts and grains rich in quercetin. 