Neuritis is a broad term use to describe various diseases involving the inflammation of a nerve or a group of nerves. It is often associated with pain, changes in sensations, weakness, numbness, paralysis or muscle wasting. 
Optic nerve. Optic neuritis is an inflammation of the optic nerve, the bundle of nerve fibers that transmits visual information from your eye to your brain. Pain and temporary vision loss are common symptoms of optic neuritis. Optic neuritis is highly associated with multiple sclerosis, a disease that causes inflammation and damage to nerves in your brain and spinal cord. In some people, signs and symptoms of optic neuritis may be the first indication of multiple sclerosis.
Neuritis (nyoo-ri´tis) is a general term for inflammation of a nerve or the general inflammation of the peripheral nervous system. 
Neuritis is one of the serious nervous disorders. Neuritis refers to an inflammation of the nerves, involving a single nerve or a series of nerves. At times, several different groups of nerves in various parts of the body may be involved. Neuritis is known as polyneuritis. Certain remedies have been found highly beneficial in the treatment of neuritis. 1  One such remedy is soyabean milk. 2  A cupful of soyabean milk mixed with a teaspoonful of honey should be taken every night in this condition.
Vestibular neuritis is a disorder that affects the nerve of the inner ear called the vestibulocochlear nerve. This nerve sends balance and head position information from the inner ear to the brain. 
Overview. If you have brachial neuritis, the nerves that control your shoulder, arm, and hand become inflamed. These nerves, forming what is known as the brachial plexus, run from your spinal cord along your neck and shoulder into your arm. 
Optic neuritis (ON) is a condition in which the nerve to the eye (the optic nerve) becomes inflamed or irritated. Inflammation refers to a process in which white blood cells and chemical messengers go to an area of the body to stimulate healing or to attack viruses or foreign material. 
The chief cause of neuritis is chronic acidosis, that is, excessive acid condition of the blood and other body fluids. All the body fluids should be alkaline in their reaction ,but when the acid waste matter is continuously formed in the tissues over a long period due to a faulty diet, it results in acidosis. Certain remedies have been found highly beneficial in the treatment of neuritis. 1  One such remedy is soyabean milk. 2  A cupful of soyabean milk mixed with a teaspoonful of honey should be taken every night in this condition.
Neuritis is a medical condition characterized by inflammation in a nerve or a portion of the nervous system. There are two primary types: optic and peripheral. Optic neuritis, which is also referred to as retrobulbar neuritis, is generally caused by viral or bacterial infections. As the name implies, it's an inflammation of the optic nerve. It can cause an individual to experience partial or complete loss of vision. An illustration of the human nervous system, with the nerves shown in green. Alcoholism is a common cause of peripheral neuritis. Inflamed optic nerves can result in vision loss that ranges from mild to severe.
The main symptoms of neuritis are 1  : are tingling, burning, and stabbing pains in the affected nerves. 2  IN severe cases, there may be numbness and loss of sensation and paralysis of the nearby muscles. 3  Thus a temporary paralysis of the face may result from changes in the facial nerves on the affected side. Certain remedies have been found highly beneficial in the treatment of neuritis. 1  One such remedy is soyabean milk. 2  A cupful of soyabean milk mixed with a teaspoonful of honey should be taken every night in this condition.