53-2 The nasopharynx is the superiormost part of the pharynx, but (at least in its anterior aspect) it may also be regarded as the posterior portion of the nasal cavity (F. W. Jones, J. Anat., 74:147,1940; K. Leela, R. Kanagasuntheram, and F. Y. Khoo, J. Anat., 117:333, 1974). The word throat is used for the parts of the neck anterior to the vertebral column, especially the pharynx and the larynx. The pharynx is the part of the digestive system situated posterior to the nasal and oral cavities and posterior to the larynx. It is therefore divisible into nasal, oral, and laryngeal parts: the (1) nasopharynx, (2) oropharynx, and (3) laryngopharynx
Connects the nasal cavity with the rest of the pharynx. Behind the soft palate and has two openings from the nose (posterior nares) and the passageways connecting the ears (eustachian tubes or pharyngotympanic tubes). A structure of the respiratory system that consists of two nasal cavities separated by the nasal septum, anterior nares, posterior nares, ridges in the nose called the nasal concha (or turbinate bones).
It is the opening between the nasal cavity and the nasopharynx. It is therefore not a structure but a space bounded as follows: 1  anteriorly and inferiorly by the horizontal plate of palatine bone, 2  superiorly and posteriorly by the sphenoid bone. 3  laterally by the medial pterygoid plates. 
The nasal cavity is part of the human respiratory system. Also known as the nasal fossa, it is a small air-filled chamber behind the nose, connected via the pharynx to the l … arynx (voicebox) and the trachea. Above and in front of the nasal cavity are the sinuses (paranasal cavities), located inside the facial bones.
The nasal cavity is part of the human respiratory system. Also known as the nasal fossa, it is a small air-filled chamber behind the nose, connected via the pharynx to the l … arynx (voicebox) and the trachea. Above and in front of the nasal cavity are the sinuses (paranasal cavities), located inside the facial bones. In the breathing system, the air enters at the nostrils (nares), passes through the nasal cavity (where some smell detectors are located) , and enters
Nasopharyngeal cancer is a cancer that starts in the nasopharynx, the upper part of the throat behind the nose and near the base of skull. To understand nasopharyngeal cancer, it helps to know about the structure and function of the nasopharynx. 
It makes up the part of the throat situated immediately posterior to the nasal cavity, posterior to the mouth and superior to the esophagus and larynx. The human pharynx is conventionally divided into three sections: the nasopharynx, the oropharynx and the laryngopharynx. It is also important in vocalization. In humans the pharynx is part of the digestive system and also of the conducting zone of the respiratory system. The conducting zone also includes the nose, larynx, trachea, bronchi, and bronchioles, and their function is to filter, warm, and moisten air and conduct it into the lungs.
Nasal and oral cavities: opening or hollow parts of the nose and mouth. Superior nasal concha: bony layer folded onto itself in the upper part of the nasopharynx. Sphenoidal sinus: cavity in the area of the sphenoid. Nasopharynx: part of the pharynx in the area of the nose. Maxillary process: outgrowth of the upper jaw that is part of the nasopharynx. Hard palate: arch of the palate.