2. This option lets you choose what happens when you connect your phone to a computer (e.g., charge the phone, sync data, transfer photos). Both the MTP (Media Transfer Protocol) and UMS or MSC (USB Mass Storage) mode have similar functions that enable the transfer of files between two devices. 6. This option lets you choose what happens when you connect your phone to a computer (e.g., charge the phone, sync data, transfer photos). Both the MTP (Media Transfer Protocol) and UMS or MSC (USB Mass Storage) mode have similar functions that enable the transfer of files between two devices.
Step 1: Connect your iPhone to your computer using a USB cable. On your iPhone screen you might see a notfication with a Trust or Don't Trust option. Tap Trust to continue. Step 2: A toast notification will come up, asking Tap to choose what happens with this device. Click or tap the notification and choose the Import photos and videos option. By default, all the pictures will be saved in your My Pictures folder. (b). If you're using Windows Vista or Windows 7 : Step 1: Connect your iPhone to PC using USB cable. Step 2: Import pictures and videos .
Make sure no cameras are connected to your computer. Choose an option from the “Connecting camera opens” pop-up menu. iPhoto is an option. Another option is Image Capture, an application included with OS X that you can use to transfer photos and video from your digital camera to your computer. Image Capture is useful if: You want to transfer photos from your camera to your computer, but you don’t want to import them into the iPhoto or Aperture library.
5. This option lets you choose what happens when you connect your phone to a computer (e.g., charge the phone, sync data, transfer photos). Both the MTP (Media Transfer Protocol) and UMS or MSC (USB Mass Storage) mode have similar functions that enable the transfer of files between two devices. 6. This option lets you choose what happens when you connect your phone to a computer (e.g., charge the phone, sync data, transfer photos). Both the MTP (Media Transfer Protocol) and UMS or MSC (USB Mass Storage) mode have similar functions that enable the transfer of files between two devices.
8. This option lets you choose what happens when you connect your phone to a computer (e.g., charge the phone, sync data, transfer photos). Both the MTP (Media Transfer Protocol) and UMS or MSC (USB Mass Storage) mode have similar functions that enable the transfer of files between two devices. 6. This option lets you choose what happens when you connect your phone to a computer (e.g., charge the phone, sync data, transfer photos). Both the MTP (Media Transfer Protocol) and UMS or MSC (USB Mass Storage) mode have similar functions that enable the transfer of files between two devices.
When you plug a Windows Phone 8 device into a Windows 8 or Windows RT device (like the Surface), the operating system will automatically download the Windows Phone app from the Windows Store and ask you to choose what happens when you connect the device. 
Step 3: Click or tap the notification and choose the Import photos and videos option. By default, all the pictures will be saved in your My Pictures folder. (b). If you're using Windows Vista or Windows 7 : Step 1: Connect your iPhone to PC using USB cable. Step 2: Import pictures and videos .
When you connect your iPhone to your computer, iTunes should locate the device and open automatically. Similarly, if you have photos or videos stored on your smartphone, Windows 8 scans the internal storage and pops up an autoplay dialog box so you can choose what to do with the media. 
NA. So I've connected my iPhone 5 to my PC, and I accidentally pressed the rectangular box on top that say's Tap to choose what happens with this device.. If you have accidently set the ‘Photo’ app as the default program to handle the contents of your iphone, then you can undo this setting by making changes in the ‘AutoPlay’ settings. Connect your iphone to the computer and then follow these steps: