A pleural effusion is a build-up of fluid in the space between the lungs and the chest ... The build-up of fluid can be a symptom of diseases or disorders, such as: Congestive heart failure (CHF); Lung infections; Kidney disease; Pulmonary embolism (a blot clot that travels to the lung ... A chest X-ray can show if your lungs are fully inflating or if there is air or fluid between the lungs and ribs. ... A chest CT scan can show if there is a blood clot in the lung or find other causes of pleuritic pain.
Pulmonary Edema Overview. Pulmonary edema literally means an excess collection of watery fluid in the lungs. (pulmonary=lung +edema=excess fluid). However, the lung is a complex organ, and there are many causes of this excess fluid accumulation. Regardless of the cause, fluid makes it difficult for the lungs to function (to exchange oxygen and carbon dioxide with cells in the bloodstream).
Causes of fluid in the lungs can also ... climbing high altitudes without adequate adjustment time; nervous system conditions, like head trauma; drug reactions; blood clots; viral infections such as pneumonia; toxin exposure; smoke inhalation; water inhalation; and lung injury. A chest X-ray can show if your lungs are fully inflating or if there is air or fluid between the lungs and ribs. ... A chest CT scan can show if there is a blood clot in the lung or find other causes of pleuritic pain.
However, the accumulation of fluid in the lungs, also called pulmonary edema, compromises the lung's ability to uptake oxygen and to expel carbon dioxide. Pulmonary edema is a medical condition that is characterized by the abnormal accumulation of fluid in the lungs, inflammation of the lungs, and difficulty breathing. 1 Preload reducers. 2  The pressure caused by fluid in the lungs can be alleviated by medications called preload reducers. 3  Furosemide (Lasix), which is a diuretic, triggers urination to get rid of excess fluid. 4  Nitroglycerin is a drug that causes blood vessels to dilate.
Conditions that cause fluid in the lungs that are not related to the heart are known as non-cardiac pulmonary edema. In these conditions, the alveoli or capillaries become leaky allowing fluid to accumulate in the lungs. Non-cardiac pulmonary edema is caused by a number of factors, including: 1  Lung infections. 1 Preload reducers. 2  The pressure caused by fluid in the lungs can be alleviated by medications called preload reducers. 3  Furosemide (Lasix), which is a diuretic, triggers urination to get rid of excess fluid. 4  Nitroglycerin is a drug that causes blood vessels to dilate.
Pleural effusion, also called “water on the lung,” is an excessive buildup of fluid between your lungs and chest cavity. There’s always a small amount of liquid inside your lungs. This fluid works to coat the membranes (pleura) that line the outside of your lungs and lubricate the chest cavity to aid in breathing. The pleura creates too much fluid when it’s irritated or infected. This fluid accumulates in the chest cavity outside the lung, causing what’s known as pleural effusion. Certain types of cancer, such as lung, breast, and ovarian cancers, can cause pleural effusions. Lymphoma and mesothelioma can cause them too.
Medications, radiation therapy and other treatments may help make you more comfortable. Fluid in the chest (pleural effusion). Lung cancer can cause fluid to accumulate in the space that surrounds the affected lung in the chest cavity (pleural space). Fluid accumulating in the chest can cause shortness of breath. 
Chest X-ray. A chest X-ray can show if your lungs are fully inflating or if there is air or fluid between the lungs and ribs. ... A chest CT scan can show if there is a blood clot in the lung or find other causes of pleuritic pain. Ultrasound. ..