ad•ap•ta•tion. 1. the act of adapting or the state of being adapted. 2. something produced by adapting: an adaptation of a play for television. 3. a. any beneficial alteration in an organism resulting from natural selection by which the organism survives and multiplies in its environment. These traits are adaptations —characteristics or behaviors that give an organism an edge in the struggle for survival. Darwinian theory holds that adaptations are the result of a two-stage process: random variation and natural selection.
Other behaviours and adaptations. To avoid drying out, limpets scour a 'home base' with their shell edge and trap a bubble of water underneath. They may travel more than 1 m from their home base, scraping algae off the rocks during high tide before returning at low tide.
In other words, the shell of all limpets is patelliform, which means the shell is shaped more or less like the shell of most true limpets. The term false limpets is used for some (but not all) of these other groups that have a conical shell. Thus, the name limpet is used to describe various extremely diverse groups of gastropods that have independently evolved a shell of the same basic shape (see convergent evolution). Thus the common name limpet has very little taxonomic significance in and of itself; the name is applied not only to true limpets (the Patellogastropoda), but also to all snails that have a simple shell that is broadly conical in shape, and either is not spirally coiled, or appears not to be coiled in the adult snail.
2610 a limpet shell) has height H and radius R, and the ratio of heightto radius is k:Beneath the cone is an adhesive disk with the same radius asthe cone. The ventral face of the disk is glued to the substratum,and the dorsal face is attached to the center of the cone’s baseby an inextensible linkage. For example, crabs can break the shell of a high-spired limpet such as Lottia peltaby grasping the sides of theshell at the level of the muscle attachment and squeezing. Asa result, the top of the shell ‘pops off’, and the limpet’s bodyis exposed (Morris et al., 1980).
The risk of dislodgmentis minimized when the ratio of height to radius is 1.06 andthe apex is in the center of the shell. Real limpets are seldomoptimally shaped, however, with a typical height-to-radiusratio of 0.68 and an apex well anterior of the shell’scenter. For example, crabs can break the shell of a high-spired limpet such as Lottia peltaby grasping the sides of theshell at the level of the muscle attachment and squeezing. Asa result, the top of the shell ‘pops off’, and the limpet’s bodyis exposed (Morris et al., 1980).
Desiccation tolerance refers to the ability of an organism to withstand or endure extreme dryness, or drought-like conditions. In the fruit-fly Drosophila melanogaster, flies selected for desiccation resistance also yielded higher amounts of hemolymph. Higher hemolymph volume is linked to an increase in carbohydrates, in particular trehalose, a common sugar found in many plants and animals with high desiccation resistance.
A limpet is an aquatic snail with a shell that is broadly conical in shape. Limpet informally refers to any gastropod whose shell has no obvious coiling, like the coiling which can be seen in the shells of garden snails or winkles. Thus the common name limpet has very little taxonomic significance in and of itself; the name is applied not only to true limpets (the Patellogastropoda), but also to all snails that have a simple shell that is broadly conical in shape, and either is not spirally coiled, or appears not to be coiled in the adult snail.
Other groups, not in the same family, are also called limpets of one type or another, because of the similar shapes of their shells. Examples include the Fissurellidae, which are known as the keyhole limpet family. Thus the common name limpet has very little taxonomic significance in and of itself; the name is applied not only to true limpets (the Patellogastropoda), but also to all snails that have a simple shell that is broadly conical in shape, and either is not spirally coiled, or appears not to be coiled in the adult snail.
The shell may not look like a typical asymmetrical snail shell, but on very juvenile limpets' shells rests of the coiled shell spire can still be found. The cup-like shape of a limpet's shell means an adaptation to their living space on the rocky shores of the sea, the so-called littoral or tidal zone. Here limpets living higher on the rocks have higher shells, than those living more deeply in the sea. But dead limpets' shells may be abraded by the sea, so holes can be found in limpet shells afterwards. Finally there are also the slipper limpets (Calyptraeidae). Apart from belonging to a completely different systematic group of gastropods, those sea snails only vaguely resemble a patellid limpet.