The meaning of Vanaja is “Born in the woods”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. If you consider naming your baby Vanaja we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
Vania is also an English form of the English and German Vanessa. Vania has 13 forms. Forms of the name include Vanea, Vaniah, Vanija, Vanina, Vaniya, Vanja, Vanka, Vanna, Vannea, Vannia, Vannya, Vanya, and Vanyah. Vania is uncommon as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names. In 2012, within the family of girl names directly related to Vania, Anna was the most widely used. Baby names that sound like Vania include Vanja, Vanya, Vahini, Vamana, Vanaja, Viana, Vianey, Vianna, Vianney, Vienna, Vinaya, Viona, Vivian, Viviann, Vivianne, Vivien, Vivienne, Vygnett, Vygnette, and Vyoma. 
The first thing you should know if you are considering Vanaja for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Vanaja is a girl name. The name Vanaja is of Sanskrit origin, and is used mostly in Hindi speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world. If you consider naming your baby Vanaja we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Vanaja and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Vanaja and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. If you consider naming your baby Vanaja we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
View the Jagdish Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Jagdish has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Jagdish to other names. Variants of the name Jagdish include Jagdishbha. Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Jagdish in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Jagdish in Nautical Flags page.
Baby Names Ocean-Baby Names that your baby will love. Name Meanings and Name Origins from around the whole world! Copyright © 2010 BabyNamesOcean.com. All Rights Reserved. 
An Android app is available for download. Name: In the News: Pinky Thakkar (silent h), an engineer from Mumbai, started the Web site www.pronouncenames.com after she moved to San Jose, Calif., and mispronounced the J in San Jose, not giving it the H sound used in Spanish words ... Read More. Website Offers Help On Pronouncing Names.
Pronunciation: (vah NA ja). Form of: Itself (Vanaja). The meaning of the name “Vanaja” is: “Born in the woods”. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }. If you consider naming your baby Vanaja we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
[ 3 syll. va-na-ja, van-aja ] The baby girl name Vanaja is pronounced Vaa-N AA Yaa †. Vanaja is of Sanskrit origin and it is predominantly used in the Indian language. The name means 'forest girl'. Vanaja is an irregularly used baby girl name. It is not ranked within the top 1000. 