Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) exists on the cell surface and is activated by binding of its specific ligands, including epidermal growth factor and transforming growth factor α (TGFα) (note, a full list of the ligands able to activate EGFR and other members of the ErbB family is given in the ErbB article). Epidermal growth factor and its receptor was discovered by Stanley Cohen of Vanderbilt University. Cohen shared the 1986 Nobel Prize in Medicine with Rita Levi-Montalcini for their discovery of growth factors.
The eGFR is a test that is used to assess how well your kidneys are working. The test estimates the volume of blood that is filtered by your kidneys over a given period of time. The test is called the estimated glomerular filtration rate because the glomeruli are the tiny filters in the kidneys. 
eGFR-stands for estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate, which is a. derived value from serum creatinine, age, sex, and race. It is an estimate of kidney function. The laboratory eGFR is not corrected for race currently. (x1.21 if Afro-caribbean) The 95% confidence intervals for the eGFR values are quite large (about +/- 30%) e.g. eGFR for a 60 yr old male with creatinine of 150 would be 44 (95% confidence limits 31 to 57).
The eGFR is used to screen for and detect early kidney damage and to monitor kidney status. It is performed by ordering a creatinine test and calculating the estimated glomerular filtration rate. The National Kidney Foundation has recommended that it be calculated automatically every time a creatinine test is done. A creatinine test and eGFR may be ordered any time that a health practitioner wants to evaluate a person's kidney function as part of a health checkup or if kidney disease is suspected.
The epidermal growth factor receptor is a member of the ErbB family of receptors, a subfamily of four closely related receptor tyrosine kinases: EGFR (ErbB-1), HER2/c-neu (ErbB-2), Her 3 (ErbB-3) and Her 4 (ErbB-4). Mutations affecting EGFR expression or activity could result in cancer. Epidermal growth factor and its receptor was discovered by Stanley Cohen of Vanderbilt University. Cohen shared the 1986 Nobel Prize in Medicine with Rita Levi-Montalcini for their discovery of growth factors.
The EGFR gene provides instructions for making a receptor protein called the epidermal growth factor receptor, which spans the cell membrane so that one end of the protein remains inside the cell and the other end projects from the outer surface of the cell. Most of the somatic EGFR gene mutations that are associated with lung cancer delete genetic material in a part of the gene known as exon 19 or change DNA building blocks (nucleotides) in another region called exon 21.
A blood test for eGFR or estimated glomuler filtration rate is a measurement used to check for the stage of renal failure that a person is experiencing. This is a test that is quite complicated and requires a trained nephrologist to perform. High and Low EGFR Blood Test Range. An eGFR blood test that ranges between 60 and 90 indicates healthy kidney function. However, if the eGFR blood test range is below 60, it reveals the possibility of a kidney disease.
The eGFR can be determined, with no extra testing, at the same time that a blood sample is sent for a creatinine measurement. The National Kidney Foundation has recommended that it be calculated automatically every time a creatinine test is done. A creatinine test and eGFR may be ordered any time that a health practitioner wants to evaluate a person's kidney function as part of a health checkup or if kidney disease is suspected.
GFR-glomerular filtration rate is the best test to measure your level of kidney function and determine your stage of kidney disease. Your doctor can calculate it from the results of your blood creatinine test, your age, body size and gender. Your GFR tells your doctor your stage of kidney disease and helps the doctor plan your treatment. If your GFR number is low, your kidneys are not working as well as they should
An eGFR blood test maybe recommended by your doctor to determine the creatinine levels in the blood. The test reveals kidney function and indicates how well or poorly your kidneys are filtering the creatinine (waste produced through muscle function) from your blood. EGFR stands for estimated glomerular filtration rate. High and Low EGFR Blood Test Range. An eGFR blood test that ranges between 60 and 90 indicates healthy kidney function. However, if the eGFR blood test range is below 60, it reveals the possibility of a kidney disease.