Spinal cord injury (SCI) occurs when a traumatic event results in damage to cells in the spinal cord or severs the nerve tracts that relay signals up and down the spinal cord. The most common types of SCI include contusion (bruising of the spinal cord) and compression (caused by pressure on the spinal cord). Signs of an acute injury include the following: 1  sudden, severe pain. 2  swelling. 3  inability to place weight on a lower limb. 4  extreme tenderness in an upper limb. 5  inability to move a joint through its full range of motion. 6  extreme limb weakness. 7  visible dislocation or break of a bone.
• bruising (contusions) or cuts. • sprains and strains (e.g. ankle sprain, wrist sprain or knee ligament strain). • fractures/ broken bones. • dislocations (when a joint ‘pops out’). Common symptoms of acute injuries include sudden, severe pain, swelling, restricted movement and inability to bear weight. Overuse injuries occur when we overstress the tissues and don’t allow enough time for recovery. Common overuse injuries include: • muscle strains. • inflamed and painful tendons (tendinosis). • pain at the front of the knee. • jumper’s knee (tendinopathy). • shin pains, sometimes referred to as shin splints.
Overuse injuries also happen in people who are returning to a sport or activity after injury and try to make up for lost time by pushing themselves to achieve the level of participation they were at before injury. Proper technique is critical in avoiding overuse injuries, as slight changes in form may be the culprit. Some tips for treating an overuse injury include: 1  Cutting back the intensity, duration, and frequency of an activity. 2  Adopting a hard/easy workout schedule and crosstraining with other activities to maintain fitness levels. 3  Learning about proper training and technique from a coach or athletic trainer.
Five Most Common Overuse Injuries in Runners. An overuse injury is an injury that does not result from a single incident of trauma but is instead caused by repeated stress to an area. Runners are typically vulnerable since running cause a large amount of shock through the legs in a repeated fashion. Achilles tendinitis. The Achilles tendon is located on the back of the ankle and attaches the muscles of the calf to the heel bone. This type of injury is usually precipitated by overuse and can be slow to heal as the tendon does not receive much blood flow. Achilles tendinitis is common in runners. Patellofemoral pain (Runners Knee). Runner’s knee is the most diagnosed condition in sports medicine clinic
There are essentially two types of injuries: acute injuries and overuse injuries. Acute injuries are usually the result of a single, traumatic event (macro-trauma). (sportsmed.org) Common examples of acute injuries include. An overuse injury, on the other hand, is damage to a bone, muscle, ligament, or tendon due to repetitive stress without allowing time for the body to heal. Overuse injuries are more subtle and usually occur over time. They are the result of repetitive micro-trauma to the tendons, bones and joints
More severe injuries include bone bruises or damage to the cartilage or ligaments. There are two types of cartilage in the knee. One is the meniscus, a crescent-shaped disc that absorbs shock between the thigh (femur) and lower leg bones (tibia and fibula). Signs of an acute injury include the following: 1  sudden, severe pain. 2  swelling. 3  inability to place weight on a lower limb. 4  extreme tenderness in an upper limb. 5  inability to move a joint through its full range of motion. 6  extreme limb weakness. 7  visible dislocation or break of a bone.
Several types of traumatic injuries can affect the head and brain. A skull fracture occurs when the bone of the skull cracks or breaks. A depressed skull fracture occurs when pieces of the broken skull press into the tissue of the brain. This can cause bruising of the brain tissue, called a contusion. Signs of an acute injury include the following: 1  sudden, severe pain. 2  swelling. 3  inability to place weight on a lower limb. 4  extreme tenderness in an upper limb. 5  inability to move a joint through its full range of motion. 6  extreme limb weakness. 7  visible dislocation or break of a bone.
There are basically two types of injuries: acute injuries and overuse injuries. Acute injuries are usually the result of a single, traumatic event. Common examples include wrist fractures, ankle sprains, shoulder dislocations, and hamstring muscle strain. While overuse injuries are more common in sports than acute injuries, they are subtle and usually occur over time, making them challenging to diagnose and treat. Some tips for treating an overuse injury include: 1  Cutting back the intensity, duration, and frequency of an activity. 2  Adopting a hard/easy workout schedule and crosstraining with other activities to maintain fitness levels. 3  Learning about proper training and technique from a coach or athletic trainer.
Groin pain can be the result of an overstretch injury or inflammation of tendons in the thigh and abdomen. The arrangement of muscles in this region is complex, and many muscles are vulnerable to overuse pain. Groin pain may also be caused by unstable pelvic bones. Tendons can also be partially or completely torn. In a partial tear there is significant pain and discomfort and if the tear is complete you may be able to feel a gap in the tendon. Ligaments can be stretched, leading to partial or complete tears. The word sprain is usually applied to minor tears of ligaments.