1 A variety of substances are used in lithium batteries, but a common combination is a lithium cobalt oxide cathode and a carbon anode. 2  Lead-acid battery (rechargeable) : This is the chemistry used in a typical car battery. 1 Zinc-carbon battery: The zinc-carbon chemistry is common in many inexpensive AAA, AA, C and D dry cell batteries. 2  The anode is zinc, the cathode is manganese dioxide, and the electrolyte is ammonium chloride or zinc chloride. 3  Alkaline battery: This chemistry is also common in
Toxic Heavy Metals. Batteries are made from a number of different materials. These materials include acid, lead, nickel, lithium, cadmium, alkaline, mercury and nickel metal hydride. When batteries are not properly disposed of the casing can disintegrate and the toxic chemicals within can leach into the surrounding environment. In instances where the battery cannot be recycled, they are disposed of in a way that means the toxic chemicals cannot enter the environment. In some instances this involves encasing the batteries in concrete.
assult on a person battery is the intentional touching of-or use of force to touch-another in an offensive or injurious manner. Some of the states as well as the Model Pen … al Code also define battery to include situations where the actor knew or had reason to know his actions would cause the contact. Every pure compound is a different substance. Salt water is a mixture of two substances-sodium chloride and water. Its composition and therefore its properties are not fixed.
Many nickel compounds dissolve fairly easy in water and have a green color. Nickel compounds are used for nickel plating, to color ceramics, to make some batteries, and as substances known as catalysts that increase the rate of chemical reactions. Nickel is found in all soil and is emitted from volcanoes. Nickel is also found in meteorites and on the ocean floor. 
A standard 12-volt automotive battery contains six cells that are connected to one another. These cells are filled with an electrolyte made up of sulfuric acid and water (H2SO4). When the ignition is turned on, this chemical mixture generates an electrical current that travels through the wires. The positive plates are alternated with negative plates in the battery to create a charge. Sheets are placed within each plate to prevent the plates from touching. Lead dioxide is odorless, dark-brown in color and appears crystal-like.
1 Lithium-ion battery (rechargeable) : Lithium chemistry is often used in high-performance devices, such as cell phones, digital cameras and even electric cars. 2  A variety of substances are used in lithium batteries, but a common combination is a lithium cobalt oxide cathode and a carbon anode. 1 Zinc-carbon battery: The zinc-carbon chemistry is common in many inexpensive AAA, AA, C and D dry cell batteries. 2  The anode is zinc, the cathode is manganese dioxide, and the electrolyte is ammonium chloride or zinc chloride. 3  Alkaline battery: This chemistry is also common in
1 The anode is zinc, the cathode is manganese dioxide, and the electrolyte is ammonium chloride or zinc chloride. 2  Alkaline battery: This chemistry is also common in AA, C and D dry cell batteries. 3  The cathode is composed of a manganese dioxide mixture, while the anode is a zinc powder. 1 Zinc-carbon battery: The zinc-carbon chemistry is common in many inexpensive AAA, AA, C and D dry cell batteries. 2  The anode is zinc, the cathode is manganese dioxide, and the electrolyte is ammonium chloride or zinc chloride. 3
1 Cadmium: This metal is found most often in batteries and is the main ingredient in battery acid. 2  Smokers typically have twice as much cadmium in their bodies as non-smokers do. 3  Arsenic: This metal substance is most often used as a pesticide or fertilizer. There are many different poisonous substances found in tobacco. Some of these are found in products such as rat poison and pesticides, while others are found in household cleaners and solvents. 1  Acetone: This substance is used in nail polish remover and as a plastic solvent
1 Alkaline battery: This chemistry is also common in AA, C and D dry cell batteries. 2  The cathode is composed of a manganese dioxide mixture, while the anode is a zinc powder. 3  It gets its name from the potassium hydroxide electrolyte, which is an alkaline substance. 1 Zinc-carbon battery: The zinc-carbon chemistry is common in many inexpensive AAA, AA, C and D dry cell batteries. 2  The anode is zinc, the cathode is manganese dioxide, and the electrolyte is ammonium chloride or zinc chloride. 3 