Before Probate. Until the executor of a will has presented it to the court for probate, you can contest a will at any time. In most states, you do this by filing a “caveat” or objection with the probate court. If the court clerk later receives the will for probate, she cannot accept it because of your caveat. Time Periods. When the statute of limitations begins running with the date of probate, you have two years to file a will challenge in most states. In Pennsylvania, however, it is usually only one year. The burden of proof shifts from the executor, who would have had to prove that your caveat was unfounded, to you
Time limits. An application under the Act must be made within 12 months of the death (it was previously 18 months). The applicant can ask the court to have the period extended, but there can no longer be an extension of time by the consent of the parties. The Supreme Court of NSW interprets wills made or contested in NSW. The executor, or a party interested in the estate, may apply to the court to have it determine what the will-maker meant by the will. For example, a woman with two grandsons called George may have left something to 'my grandson George'.
New South Wales. Family Provision claims in New South Wales are governed by the Succession Act 2006. If you are contesting a Will for Family Provision within New South Wales you need to commence Court proceedings within 12 months of the Will maker’s death. Queensland.
Contesting a will time limits. Generally, Contested probate time limits vary depending upon the type of claim, and are governed under the Limitation Act 1980. As the limitation to bring a claim can be very subjective it is always very important that expert help is sought.
If you are unhappy with a will, it is absolutely critical that you immediately seek legal help, as the time limits on contesting a will can be as little as just six months from the date of the grant of probate or letters of administration been issued. Generally, Contested probate time limits vary depending upon the type of claim, and are governed under the Limitation Act 1980. As the limitation to bring a claim can be very subjective it is always very important that expert help is sought.
Pursuant to Family Provision Act 1972, s 7(2)(a) the time limit in which to make a claim is within 6 months of personal representative becoming entitled to administer the estate. In other words, a claim for provision must be made within 6 months from the Grant of Probate or Administration. 
4. Yes, there is a time limit to dispute a Will, but this differs depending on the state. NSW-If the person died on or after 1 March 2009 you have 12 months from the date of their death to make a Will dispute claim. VIC - 6 months from the date of a grant of probate. QLD - 9 months from the date of death, however notification must be made within 6 months from date of death. Note-If you have a good reason you may be able to bring a claim anyway (see What if the time limit has passed?).
The time limit to contest a Will in NSW. The time limit to contest a Will in NSW fall under two categories: 1  i) For deaths on or after 1 March 2009 the time limit is within 12 of the date of death – Succession Act 2006, s 58(2); and. 
Time limits to contest a Will. The time limits to contest a will vary from state to state. For example, within Victoria a will may be contested up to six months from the Grant of Probate. Application for probate will usually take place within one to 8 weeks from the date of death. It is therefore important to seek legal advice quickly if you are considering contesting a will