Video Transcript. Hi, I'm Michael Carson here to discuss with you what muscles do dumbbell pullovers work. Now, the pectoral major is the main muscle that is working when doing the dumbbell pullovers but you also get the pec minor. You get the latissimus dorsi, the larger muscle of the back, you get your teres major and your teres minor.
Dumbbell pullovers work the pectoralis major muscle that forms the bulk of your chest. It runs from the sternum, or breast bone, and the clavicle, or collarbone, to the top of the humerus, which is your upper arm bone. Pectoralis major adducts and medially rotates your arm. A dumbbell pullover is a weight-lifting exercise that primarily strengthens the muscles of your chest, or pectorals. It also works some of the muscles of your shoulders, upper back and arms. You perform dumbbell pullovers by raising and lowering a dumbbell beyond your head while lying on your back
When performing the dumbbell pullover, lock your elbows into a slight bend and do not move them during the exercise. If you allow your elbows to straighten as you lift the dumbbell overhead, some of the load will transfer away from the chest and back muscles to the triceps, increasing their involvement in the movement. Secondary Movers. The latissimus dorsi, which is a large back muscle that fans out from your upper arm bone to your spine and then extends down to your hip bone, assists during the pullover exercise. Several other muscles, including the rhomboids, rear delts and triceps, are also involved as secondary movers.
A man is does a dumbbell pullover at the gym. Photo Credit Click_and_Photo/iStock/Getty Images. Dumbbell pullovers are a bit of an exercise anomaly in that they work two opposing muscles simultaneously: the chest and the back muscles. The chest muscles are the primary movers, but several muscles of the back assist during the movement. Secondary Movers. The latissimus dorsi, which is a large back muscle that fans out from your upper arm bone to your spine and then extends down to your hip bone, assists during the pullover exercise. Several other muscles, including the rhomboids, rear delts and triceps, are also involved as secondary movers.
Technique. To perform the straight-arm dumbbell pullover, lie on your back on a flat bench and hold a single dumbbell with both hands. Hold the dumbbell over your chest with your arms fully extended. When your hands come together and hold a dumbbell over your chest as they do during the pullover, your shoulders have to internally rotate. When your shoulders are internally rotated position, it's your chest muscle that does the work to extend your shoulders during the pullover.
A pullover with a dumbbell keeps your shoulders internally rotated. Depending on what type of weight you use, the pullover exercise can focus on developing your chest or your back. When you use a dumbbell for the straight arm pullover, you target your chest muscle. When your hands come together and hold a dumbbell over your chest as they do during the pullover, your shoulders have to internally rotate. When your shoulders are internally rotated position, it's your chest muscle that does the work to extend your shoulders during the pullover.
(Video). Dumbbell pullovers work a wide variety of different muscles in your body, including the pectoral major. Find out what muscles the dumbbell pullovers work with help from an experienced fitness professional in this free video clip. Now, the pectoral major is the main muscle that is working when doing the dumbbell pullovers but you also get the pec minor. You get the latissimus dorsi, the larger muscle of the back, you get your teres major and your teres minor.
http://www.youtube.com/Ehowfitness. Straight-arm dumbbell pullovers work a wide variety of different parts of your body, including your chest. Find out how straight-arm dumbbell pullovers work the chest with help from a certified personal trainer in this free video clip. Expert: Tyler Tsujimoto. Bio: Tyler Tsujimoto is a Certified Personal Trainer from the National Academy of Sports Medicine.