Those abbreviations stand for: fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET). The role of this procedure is to detect metabolically active malignant lesions including lung cancer, colorectal cancer, lymphoma, melanoma, breast cancer, ovarian cancer, brain cancer and multiple myeloma. 
FDG PET scan (coronal view).There is increased activity seen in the neck and shoulder muscles. Moderate uptake is also seen in the psoas muscles in this patient with scoliosis (arrows) [Image courtesy of Centre for Molecular Imaging, Peter MacCallum Cancer ... In summary; FDG will localise to any part of the body where there is high physiologic activity. Basic to the proper interpretation of PET CT scans is a clear understanding of the normal variants of uptake and awareness of the benign processes that are FDG avid to avoid potential pitfalls in image interpretation.
FDG contains radioactive fluorine-18 but the amount of radiation is too small and the half-life too short (about 109 minutes) to threaten health. FDG is used in the type of three-dimensional medical imaging technology called a PET (positron emission tomography) scan. FDG (fludeoxyglucose F-18) is an intravenously administered radiopharmaceutical (radioactive drug) used to help diagnose certain medical problems.
DRUG DESCRIPTION. Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Injection (fdg) is a positron emitting radiopharmaceutical containing no-carrier added radioactive 2-deoxy-2-[ 18 F]fluoro-D-g1ucose, which is used for diagnostic purposes in conjunction with Positron Emission Tomography (PET). It is administered by intravenous injection. Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Injection (fdg) is provided as a ready to use isotonic, sterile, pyrogen free, clear, colorless citrate buffered solution.
After 18 F-FDG is injected into a patient, a PET scanner can form two-dimensional or three-dimensional images of the distribution of 18 F-FDG within the body. Since its development in 1976, 18 F-FDG had a profound influence on research in the neurosciences. Although in theory all 18 F-FDG is metabolized as above with a radioactivity elimination half-life of 110 minutes (the same as that of fluorine-18), clinical studies have shown that the radioactivity of 18 F-FDG partitions into two major fractions.
The subsequent discovery 1980 that 18 F-FDG accumulates in tumors underpins the evolution of PET as a major clinical tool in cancer diagnosis. 18 F-FDG is now the standard radiotracer used for PET neuroimaging and cancer patient management. Although in theory all 18 F-FDG is metabolized as above with a radioactivity elimination half-life of 110 minutes (the same as that of fluorine-18), clinical studies have shown that the radioactivity of 18 F-FDG partitions into two major fractions.
Another fraction of 18 F-FDG, representing about 20% of the total fluorine-18 activity of an injection, is eliminated renally by two hours after a dose of 18 F-FDG, with a rapid half-life of about 16 minutes (this portion makes the renal-collecting system and bladder prominent in a normal PET scan). Although in theory all 18 F-FDG is metabolized as above with a radioactivity elimination half-life of 110 minutes (the same as that of fluorine-18), clinical studies have shown that the radioactivity of 18 F-FDG partitions into two major fractions.
Fludeoxyglucose (18F) (INN), or fludeoxyglucose F 18 (USAN and USP), also commonly called fluorodeoxyglucose and abbreviated [18F]FDG, 18F-FDG or FDG, is a radiopharmaceutical used in the medical imaging modality positron emission tomography (PET). Although in theory all 18 F-FDG is metabolized as above with a radioactivity elimination half-life of 110 minutes (the same as that of fluorine-18), clinical studies have shown that the radioactivity of 18 F-FDG partitions into two major fractions.
FDG PET scan (coronal view). Intense tracer uptake is seen into brown fat seen in the supraclavicular, intercostal and paravertebral regions [Image courtesy of Centre for Molecular Imaging, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, East Melbourne, Victoria, Australia]. ... In summary; FDG will localise to any part of the body where there is high physiologic activity. Basic to the proper interpretation of PET CT scans is a clear understanding of the normal variants of uptake and awareness of the benign processes that are FDG avid to avoid potential pitfalls in image interpretation.