A magnetosphere is classified as intrinsic when, or when the primary opposition to the flow of solar wind is the magnetic field of the object. Mercury, Earth, Jupiter, Ganymede, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune exhibit intrinsic magnetospheres. The magnetosphere of Jupiter is the largest planetary magnetosphere in the Solar System, extending up to 7,000,000 kilometers (4,300,000 mi) on the dayside and almost to the orbit of Saturn on the nightside.
At the opposite side of the planet, the solar wind stretches Jupiter's magnetic field lines into a long, trailing magnetotail, which sometimes extends well beyond the orbit of Saturn. The structure of Jupiter's magnetotail is similar to Earth's. It consists of two lobes (blue areas in the figure), with the magnetic field in the southern lobe pointing toward Jupiter, and that in the northern lobe pointing away from it. The structure of the outer magnetosphere shows some features of a solar wind-driven magnetosphere, including a significant dawn–dusk asymmetry. In particular, magnetic field lines in the dusk sector are bent in the opposite direction to those in the dawn sector.
magnetosphere. In space the area that surrounds the Earth & contains Earth's geomagnetic field The area surrounding Earth that contains Earth's magnetic field & is created by the interaction of Earth's magnetic field with gases from the Sun. It also keeps Earth from receiving too much energy from the Sun.   .
A rendering of the magnetic field lines of Earth's magnetosphere. A magnetosphere is the region of space surrounding an astronomical object in which charged particles are controlled by that object's magnetic field. Near the surface of many astronomical objects, the magnetic field resembles that of a dipole. The magnetosphere of Jupiter is the largest planetary magnetosphere in the Solar System, extending up to 7,000,000 kilometers (4,300,000 mi) on the dayside and almost to the orbit of Saturn on the nightside.
The torus in turn loads the magnetic field with plasma, in the process stretching it into a pancake-like structure called a magnetodisk. In effect, Jupiter's magnetosphere is shaped by Io's plasma and its own rotation, rather than by the solar wind like Earth's magnetosphere. The structure of the outer magnetosphere shows some features of a solar wind-driven magnetosphere, including a significant dawn–dusk asymmetry. In particular, magnetic field lines in the dusk sector are bent in the opposite direction to those in the dawn sector.
A magnetic tail or magnetotail is formed by pressure from the solar wind on a planet's magnetosphere. Solar wind contains high energy particles which are produced by solar storms. These particles affect Earth. The coronal mass ejections cause changes in the magnetic field of the earth when they collide with the field. · just now. Report Abuse. The magnetosphere is a region that surrounds the Earth's magnetic field and extends far out into space, some 36,000 miles, or possibly more than 1,000 times the Earth's radius, according to NASA's Cosmicopia website (see link in Resources).
A magnetosphere is classified as induced when, or when the solar wind is not opposed by the object's magnetic field. In this case, the solar wind interacts with the atmosphere or ionosphere of the planet (or surface of the planet, if the planet has no atmosphere). The magnetosphere of Jupiter is the largest planetary magnetosphere in the Solar System, extending up to 7,000,000 kilometers (4,300,000 mi) on the dayside and almost to the orbit of Saturn on the nightside.
geomagnetic field. The magnetic field of the earth which drifts over time. It is created by electrical forces that are formed by the movement of the molten metals in the outer core. Is different from the magnetic field of a bar magnet. In space the area that surrounds the Earth & contains Earth's geomagnetic field The area surrounding Earth that contains Earth's magnetic field & is created by the interaction of Earth's magnetic field with gases from the Sun. It also keeps Earth from receiving too much energy from the Sun.   .
Thus, the size of a planet's magnetosphere depends on both the strength of the magnetic field and the strength of the solar wind. Jupiter's magnetosphere is by far the largest in our solar system. (click to enlarge). The stronger the magnetic field, the larger the magnetosphere. Some 20,000 times stronger than Earth's magnetic field, Jupiter's magnetic field creates a magnetosphere so large it begins to avert the solar wind almost 3 million kilometers before it reaches Jupiter.