You could drain the heater if you have the time or do it the quick way with a rag.If you do it the quick way you make sure the water is off and open the hot water faucet nearest the tank to relieve the pressure. Either way you do it would be ok. You just need to make sure your power is off first.
My water heater appears to have a bad element. Power across the two terminals of the element but no hot water. The cold water line from the main line enters the bottom of the water heater. The hot line feeding the sink and tub comes out the top of the water heater. I'm seeing no drain plug at all.
Published on Sep 28, 2012. I am showing how to replace a water heater element while at the same time not draining the tank. Yeap, the water tank is full of water. I show each step in the process and also what tools and parts needed to perform this project. Give a THUMBS UP if you like the video, It helps alot.
Report Abuse. You could drain the heater if you have the time or do it the quick way with a rag.If you do it the quick way you make sure the water is off and open the hot water faucet nearest the tank to relieve the pressure. Either way you do it would be ok. You just need to make sure your power is off first.
There should be a valve on the cold side that will shut the water feed off to the heater. If you do not have isolation valves on the water heater you will have to shut the main down unless there is some sort of isolation valve on the line feeding the water heater. 3) You will now want to drain the water heater. If you are replacing the top water heater element you will only have to drain the water heater to right below the actual element. If you are replacing the lower water heater element you will have to drain the complete water heater down. 4) Once you have the water heater drained down to the level under the element that you are replacing you will now want to remove the element cover panel.
1 Answer from this member: Unless you are very experienced on replacing water heater elements, Yes, I strongly recommend draining the tank first. Otherwise, it could cause a lot of damage. To drain the tank, be sure to turn the breaker and supply water valve off and open any hot water tap in the house.