Are there any differences between black, brown or green viton flat seals. I have an application (Steam @ 140°C pressure 2.3bar-also vacuum at 100mbar) where I have validated the use of a 70 shore hardness Viton seals on some Solenoid valves. The seals were black in colour. Viton or more general Fluorocarbon rubber (FKM or FPM)includes different materials. They can have different fluorine content (between 66 and 71 % fluorine) and hence very different swelling behaviour in solvents as e.g fuels, aromatics, methanol ...
The performance of fluoroelastomers in aggressive chemicals depends on the nature of the base polymer and the compounding ingredients used for molding the final products (e.g. O-rings). This performance can vary significantly when end-users purchase Viton polymer containing rubber goods from different sources. There are four families of viton polymers: 1  A (Dipolymers of VF2/HFP): General purpose sealing. 2  Automotive, Aerospace fuels & lubricants. 3  Nominal polymer fluorine content: 66%. 4  B (Terpolymers of VF2/HFP/TFE): Chemical Process plant, Power Utility Seals & Gaskets.
Viton is generally compatible with hydrocarbons, but incompatible with ketones such as acetone, and organic acids such as acetic acid. O-rings made of Viton are typically color-coded as black, but new gaskets, seals and O-rings should be green FKM or black FKM, but with a green mark on the outer edge. There are four families of viton polymers: 1  A (Dipolymers of VF2/HFP): General purpose sealing. 2  Automotive, Aerospace fuels & lubricants. 3  Nominal polymer fluorine content: 66%. 4  B (Terpolymers of VF2/HFP/TFE): Chemical Process plant, Power Utility Seals & Gaskets.
If the vendor claims that the material is still Viton and has a hardness of 70 durometer, the rubber probably is and does. Color is either a result of an additive, enabling identification of compounds; or a result of a required element of the mixture. Viton or more general Fluorocarbon rubber (FKM or FPM)includes different materials. They can have different fluorine content (between 66 and 71 % fluorine) and hence very different swelling behaviour in solvents as e.g fuels, aromatics, methanol ...
Viton is a brand of synthetic rubber and fluoropolymer elastomer commonly used in O-rings, chemical-resistant gloves, and other molded or extruded goods. The name is a registered trademark of DuPont Performance Elastomers L.L.C. . There are four families of viton polymers: 1  A (Dipolymers of VF2/HFP): General purpose sealing. 2  Automotive, Aerospace fuels & lubricants. 3  Nominal polymer fluorine content: 66%. 4  B (Terpolymers of VF2/HFP/TFE): Chemical Process plant, Power Utility Seals & Gaskets.
MgO is brown, thus an excess of MgO causes the finished product to be brown unless sufficient carbon black is added as a colorant-AHAH!! By weight, the typical (black) Viton is approx 11% MgO, 18% C and 1% Diak No. 1 (a curing agent). The balance is Viton A resin. Different manufacturers use slightly different formulas, so their o-rings are slightly different in color and physical properties. (See, 'Practical selection of elastomer materials for vacuum systems', Norman Peacock; J. Vac. Sci. 
Viton Gasket Materal (FKM) Gasketing perfect for gasket cutting, flat seals, door seals, Industrial applications. Standards are in stock or custom manufactured to your specifications. Viton is a high tech. elastomer designed for extreme heat, oil and chemical resistance. Viton resists aliphalactic aromatic and halogenated hydrocarbons, concentrated acids, alkalis, animal and vegetable oils. Restrictions: Viton is not generally resistant to ketones, low molecular weight esters (such as ethyl acetate), or nitro containing compounds. Only parts made with 100% virgin Viton as the sole elastomeric component are labeled with this seal. To ensure that you always receive the highest quality FKM products available, insist on 100% virgin DuPont Performance Elastomers Viton and look for the Made With Genuine Viton  seal.
Gasket Color Coding. Many sanitary elastomeric materials are the same in appearance. Rubber Fab sanitary gaskets are specifically color coded with dots to easily identify the gasket material. Please refer to the chart below to visually identify each material
Die Cut Viton ® Gaskets. Custom Gasket Mfg. fabricates die cut Viton® rubber gaskets and water jet cut Viton® rubber gaskets in a wide variety of grades, thicknesses and hardness. The standard thickness of Viton ® rubber ranges from 1/64 to 1/4 thick. Viton ® rubbers hardness (durometer) typically spans from 55 to 90 durometer, Shore A. Die cut Viton ® gaskets are generally black or brown in color. Viton ® gaskets are available with or without. 