How to Chip a Soccer Ball. Learning to chip the ball in football is a useful skill for players-it widens the variety of passes or shots you can do, and can also help in deceiving the opposition! 1 The chip is an easy way to get the ball over the wall). 2  To practise accuracy or power, you could try to chip the ball over a wall or onto the crossbar. * 3 Remember to practise with both feet 4  ! You should practice all football skills with both feet.
How to Chip a Soccer Ball. Learn how to chip a soccer ball in this soccer training video. The chip in soccer can be used as a pass or shot. Mainly it's for passing. You want to use a chip pass when you want to lob it in to your teammate over a defender that's in between you and your teammate. Free Soccer Training video focused on How to Chip a Soccer Ball. At Online Soccer Academy (OSA) we make BETTER Soccer Players / Football Players through FREE soccer tutorials. We inspire athletes that if you Believe in it® and back that up with hard work, anything in life is possible. This Video Covers:
Try also to practice on chipping not only when the ball is moving but also when it is standing still. A chip is very powerful in tight situations with many opponents around you. However you should try not to use it often because opponents may study your movements and learn how to stop you fast and easy. Chipping vs. Lifting. Chipping and lifting are close to each other, but the main difference lies in how the ball is kicked. When chipping a ball you will use your kicking foot as a wedge to kick the ball low with your toe, which will increase the arc and backspin of the ball.
2. Start a few strides away from the ball, at a slight angle from the direction you want the chip to go. 3. Approach the ball. Run up to it as you normally would when kicking a ball, and plant your standing (non-kicking foot) level with the ball. 1 The chip is an easy way to get the ball over the wall). 2  To practise accuracy or power, you could try to chip the ball over a wall or onto the crossbar. * 3 Remember to practise with both feet 4  ! You should practice all football skills with both feet.
Please Subscribe and watch more. http://www.youtube.com/strskillschool. Learn how to Chip Lob the keeper and score in Football Soccer. Follow these simple steps. But power and angle of your shot is also important. Try to keep the ball out of reach of the keeper and make the ball drop into the goal. This creates backspin and the ball stays in the air longer
A chip is an effective weapon when you want to pass the ball over opponent's defense line with precision and accuracy. My experience is that a chip is the best option in tight situations with many defenders around you. Chipping vs. Lifting. Chipping and lifting are close to each other, but the main difference lies in how the ball is kicked. When chipping a ball you will use your kicking foot as a wedge to kick the ball low with your toe, which will increase the arc and backspin of the ball.
Tips. 1  Practice doing it with your leg bent or unbent. 2  Once you can chip a ball from a dead-ball situation, try doing it when dribbling with the ball. 3  The same principle applies, it's just harder because the ball is already moving forwards so the backspin is harder to achieve. 1 The chip is an easy way to get the ball over the wall). 2  To practise accuracy or power, you could try to chip the ball over a wall or onto the crossbar. * 3 Remember to practise with both feet 4  ! You should practice all football skills with both feet.
The Soccer chip shot is usually used to catch the goalkeeper by surprise by chipping the ball over the keeper into the net. Strikers use this shot when they see the goalkeeper has left their line leaving space above and beyond the keeper. This produces a back spin on the ball. If the soccer chip shot is being used for a longer ranged shot to chip the ball over the keeper who is off his line, then the shot will have to produce a lot of height very quickly. The back spin allows the ball to then drop quickly into the net once it has beaten the goalkeeper.