Click the By Airport tab. Type in the airport code if you know it. If not, type in the city name and select the airport code from the drop-down box. Select the date and the time period for the flights you want to see, and hit Go. You'll be able to scroll through an entire list of arriving flights. Yes. Select the By Route tab. Type in the airport names or codes for the departure and arrival airports, specify the date you want to use for the search, and select Go. You'll see a list of all flights on that date for connecting those two airports. If you see a flight you want to track, click on the flight number for detailed status information
Port Louis is the country's economic, cultural, political centre and most populous city. It is administered by the Municipal City Council of Port Louis. According to the 2012 census conducted by Statistics Mauritius, the population was 148,001. Port Louis is home to the nation's main harbor, and is the only official port of entry and exit for sea vessels in Mauritius.
If you are planning a visit Mauritius or travel to any city in Mauritius, knowledge about the airports and other travel facility will be really useful. Get Mauritius Codes, location of Airports, Mauritius Airport Map etc... There are 2 Airports in Mauritius and this list covers all these 2 Mauritius Airports. Find Airport Information with airport to airport distance, airport to city distance, Current Time and Date at airport Mauritius etc... List of airports in Mauritius.
IATA airport code for Mauritius - 3 letter city code for Mauritius-location identifier code-three letter codes. *** 1  Some cities have several airports. 2  In these cities the city itself gets a code and each airport also gets a code. Eventually the system expanded, allowing numbers and four digit combinations; however, an airport served by scheduled route air-carrier or military airlift aircraft always has a code comprising of only three letter IATA code. Following are the Airport Codes of the major Cities in Mauritius.
Sir Seewoosagur Ramgoolam International Airport (MRU), previously known as Plaisance Airport is the main international gateway to the island country of Mauritius. 
Airports of Mauritius Co. Ltd (AML) a public company which started its operations in April 1999, is the owner and licensed aerodrome operator of the Sir Seewoosagur Ramgoolam International Airport. Corporate Profile.
All the Airports in Mauritius are listed below. For more information about any of these airports click on the airport name. There are 2 Airports in Mauritius and this list covers all these 2 Mauritius Airports. Find Airport Information with airport to airport distance, airport to city distance, Current Time and Date at airport Mauritius etc... List of airports in Mauritius.
* Required field. Your email address will not be published. Image Upload Policy: Please use the Upload option for uploading airport images only. All images uploaded to World-Airport-Codes.com should be uploaded with the permission of the photographer or copyright holder. By uploading a photo to World-Airport-Codes.com both yourself and the copyright holder of the image are agreeing to the publishing of the photo on our site. In most cases it is a violation of copyright law to copy and paste an image from another website and upload it to World-Airport-Codes.com. 