• RED PANDA (noun). The noun RED PANDA has 1 sense: 1. reddish-brown Old World raccoon-like carnivore; in some classifications considered unrelated to the giant pandas. Familiarity information: RED PANDA used as a noun is very rare. 
• PANDA (noun). The noun PANDA has 2 senses: 1. large black-and-white herbivorous mammal of bamboo forests of China and Tibet; in some classifications considered a member of the bear family or of a separate family Ailuropodidae. 2. reddish-brown Old World raccoon-like carnivore; in some classifications considered unrelated to the giant pandas
Panda is slang for The creature that is friendly to humans and feasts on bamboos. Pandas are simply cute and adorable!. OnlineSlang 0 Panda is slang for The creature that is friendly to humans and feasts on bamboos. Pandas are simply cute and adorable!. Oct 25th, 2012 at 4:11 AM Reply.
Their population is very low due in part to the fact that they are too lazy to have sex. And the Lord came unto the Earth and made the Panda to his likeness. And HE spake, saying, Thou shalt be of a cheery disposition and be loved by all.. And the Lord smiled upon the Panda and gave it a branch of bamboo. (Panda 13:22). And the Lord came unto the cheery Panda and spake, saying, Although thou art a peaceful critter, thou shalt defend yourself furiously when attacked and rippe the limbs from thine enemies and make them wish they had never been born.... (Panda 15:10). Has really cool looks, eats bamboo, and likes to play with people (even though it's so big it often causes harm to frail human bodies). -I have to sell my liver so I can go see the Panda in the zoo!!!
panda ‎(plural pandas). ( 1 now rare without qualifying word) The red panda, a small raccoon-like animal, Ailurus fulgens of northeast Asia with reddish fur and a long, ringed tail. [from 19th c.]. 2  The giant panda – a black and white bear-like animal, Ailuropoda melanoleuca from the mountains of China. [from 19th c.]. 1 (
1 The giant panda – a black and white bear-like animal, Ailuropoda melanoleuca from the mountains of China. [from 19th c.]. ( 2 Britain, colloquial) A police car. 1 (now rare without qualifying word) The red panda, a small raccoon-like animal, Ailurus fulgens of northeast Asia with reddish fur and a long, ringed tail
giant panda, panda, panda bear, coon bear, Ailuropoda melanoleuca (noun). large black-and-white herbivorous mammal of bamboo forests of China and Tibet; in some classifications considered a member of the bear family or of a separate family Ailuropodidae. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: panda (Noun). The red panda, a small raccoon-like animal, Ailurus fulgens of northeast Asia with reddish fur and a long, ringed tail. panda (Noun). The giant panda u2013 a black and white bear-like animal, Ailuropoda melanoleuca from the mountains of China. panda (Noun). A police car. Origin: From panda, apparently from a local language of Nepal but not traced in Nepali
giant panda, panda, panda bear, coon bear, Ailuropoda melanoleuca (noun). large black-and-white herbivorous mammal of bamboo forests of China and Tibet; in some classifications considered a member of the bear family or of a separate family Ailuropodidae. see more on Definitions.net ». 