At any one time in the entire earth's crust there is only 30 grams of Francium and 25 grams of Astatine. Plutonium is only found in Uranium minerals. The amount of Plutonium is microscopic. Here are the 3 least abundant elements. Lowest 3. 89. Francium 90. Astatine 91. Plutonium. Helium is the least likely of all elements to form a compound, because helium is the least electronegative and least electropositive of the noble gases, which are less likely … to react than any other elements.
Answer: c. Blood is composed of the formed elements and plasma. Plasma is the liquid portion of blood. The formed elements consist of the cells and cell fragments. The erythrocytes (red blood cells), platelets, and leukocytes (white blood cells) are all considered formed elements. Neutrophil. d. Monocytes. e. Eosinophils. Answer: b. Basophils are the least abundant leukocyte. Leukocytes are the white blood cells. The order of frequency of the leukocytes is: neutrophil, lymphocyte, monocyte, eosinophil, basophil.
Three types of formed elements are present in blood. The most numerous are the erythrocyes, or red blood cells (RBCs) , which are literally sacs of hemoglobin molecules that transport the bulk of the oxygen carried in the blood (and a small percentage of the carbon dioxide). Observe the cell types from a blood smear from figure 9.4. Read the descriptions of cell types, and find each one on on the blood cell type image. Use the link to the blood cell type image to help as a tutorial. Sketch each of the formed elements of blood and label.
The 3 least abundant elements are Francium (Fr), Astatine (At),and Plutonium (Pu). Francium and Astatine come from the decay of Thorium (Th) and Uranium (U), are much more abu … ndant. Helium is the least likely of all elements to form a compound, because helium is the least electronegative and least electropositive of the noble gases, which are less likely … to react than any other elements.
What is the most numerous formed element in blood? What is the term given to the gap between nerve cells? Which type of blood cell helps in the clotting of blood? What formed elements of the blood serve as the main source of transportation of gases in the body? 
Platelets. One of the formed elements present in our blood. They function in hemostasis (blood clot formation). They are cell fragments of large multinucleate cells (megakaryocytes) formed in the bone marrow. They appear to be irregular, darkly stained shapes. 
Erythrocytes, or red blood cells, are the most abundant of the  formed elements of the blood. The other formed elements are  leukocytes (white blood cells) and thrombocytes … (platelets). erythrocytes (red blood cells) Erythrocytes (red blood cells or RBCs) platelets, for about 250,000-500,000 per mm3 of blood. The three formed elements of blood is white blood cells (leukocytes), red blood cells (erythrocytes) and platelets (thrombocytes). 1  Red blood cells. 2  White blood cells. 3  Platelets.
Blood Formed Elements. The formed elements are cells, cell remnants, and cell fragments in the blood. Red blood cells (RBCs or erythrocytes) make up more than 95% of the formed elements. Because they lack a nucleus and organelles, most RBCs in the blood stream are not fully functional cells. Also included in the formed elements are five types of white blood cells (WBCs or leukocytes). They are part of the immune system and that helps protect the body from foreign invaders. The WBCs are identified and classified based on their stained appearance