Xarelto is the brand name for the prescription medication rivaroxaban, a blood thinner, or anticoagulant, that prevents blood clots from forming. Xarelto is in a class of medications called factor Xa inhibitors, which means they affect the action of an enzyme, Factor X, that is involved in blood clotting.
1 Medications-If you are taking certain medications to control your high blood pressure or heart rate, for example, these may cause changes in blood pressure to a lower level. 2  Irregular heart rhythm changes-if your heart is beating irregularly, it potentially causes your blood pressure to be low as a result.
PRADAXA can cause bleeding which can be serious, and sometimes lead to death. This is because PRADAXA is a blood thinner medicine that lowers the chance of blood clots forming in your body. You may have a higher risk of bleeding if you take PRADAXA and: 1  are 75 years old or older.
1 People with high blood pressure, or hypertension, are at risk for organ damage (kidney, and heart especially), in the long term. 2  Most people with high blood pressure do not have any symptoms. 3  High blood pressure over a long period of time potentially causes extra stress on your heart muscle.
1 Even if you have a normal blood pressure of 120/80, your healthcare provider may want the bottom (diastolic) number to be lower, if you have certain diseases. 2  This includes diabetes, especially if you have protein in your urine.
Tell your doctor if you have kidney disease, liver disease, asthma, lupus or a similar connective tissue disease, or a history of ulcers or other digestion problems. Tell your doctor if you smoke or have heart or blood circulation problems, including high blood pressure, heart failure (CHF), or bleeding problems.
Midodrine hydrochloride is used to treat low blood pressure caused by certain conditions or situations such as kidney dialysis. It is also used in children who develop low blood pressure because of infections.
Some of the more common side effects of midodrine hydrochloride are chills, goose bumps, frequent urination, blurred vision, and burning, itching, or prickling of the scalp. Other common side effects may include an awareness of the heart pounding in the ears or a headache.
PRADAXA is a prescription blood thinner medicine that lowers the chance of blood clots forming in your body. PRADAXA is used to: 1  reduce the risk of stroke and blood clots in people who have a medical condition called atrial fibrillation not caused by a heart valve problem.
Some foods and medicine can affect how ibuprofen works. Tell your doctor if you are also using lithium, methotrexate, a blood thinner (such as warfarin), a steroid medicine (such as hydrocortisone, prednisolone, prednisone), a diuretic (water pill), or an ACE inhibitor blood pressure medicine.