Answers. Best Answer: According to the manual, the swing is how much the temperature will drop below the set point before the heat kicks in. For example, if the set point is 68ºF and the swing is 2º, the thermostat won't call for heat until the temperature reaches 66ºF, then it will heat until 68ºF and turn off. More degrees of swing is better for the efficiency.
I have a RiteTemp programmable thermostat with a Temp. Swing set to 3. The problem is that because it is so cold outside and the lack of insulation in the house, the furnace has very little break between cycles. Say my temp. is set to 66. When the room temp. drops to 65 the furnace kicks in and it shuts down when the room temp. reaches 67.
Swing control is adjustable on all good programmable thermostats. Usually you can alter swing control in 0.25 degree Fahrenheit increments. The purpose of swing control is to set up a range around the set point temperature and within this range the thermostat DOES NOT activate the heating or cooling.
So for example, if the set point temperature is 78 degrees and the swing control is set to 1 degree then the thermostat won’t cycle the cooling until the room temperature rises past 79 degrees and it won’t cycle the heating until the temperature in the room falls below 77 degrees.
Lux Products TX1500E Smart Temp Programmable ThermostatAfter researching thermostats, I replaced my builder-grade 1 week thermostats with a couple of Lux 1500E units. This was one of Consumer Reports' best buy models from last year (the other also a Lux).
1 In heat-if you set the Swing to be 1 degree with a target temperature of 68 - the heat will turn on when the room temperature reaches 67. 2  The heat will then always turn off when it reaches the target of 68. 3  The higher the SWING value, the longer it will take your system to turn on.
Swing: Swing is the difference between target and room temperature before the heat or cool will turn on. 1  In heat-if you set the Swing to be 1 degree with a target temperature of 68 - the heat will turn on when the room temperature reaches 67.