Earthworm (Lumbricus terrestris). The soil is also home to many different types of living things. An individual living thing is known as an organism, and all organisms of the same type are known as a species. A species is defined as all organisms that can reproduce with one another and produce fertile offspring.
1 Decomposers can be plants or animals. 2  35. 3  Decomposers can be plants or animals. 4  Decomposers get the energy they need from dead, rotting material. 5  36. 6  Most decomposers are microorganisms too small to see without a microscope, like these bacteria. 7  37. 8  Decomposers are all around us. 9  38.
Types of Organisms to Classify: Click for full classification. # 1 1 Archaea -- Domain Archaea. # 2 2 Bacteria -- Domain Bacteria. # 3 3 Green Algae (Chlorobionts) -- Domain Eukarya: Kingdom Protista: Division Chlorobionts. # 4 4 Amoeba (a Protozoan) -- Domain Eukarya: Kingdom Protista: Rhizopod Sarcodines.
There are many different types of organisms. In one classification system, there are 2 main groups. In others, there are 3. In the one used by most of the world's scientists, which we will also use, there are 5
Reproduction is the process of generating offspring. There are two main types of reproduction: sexual and asexual. Some organisms reproduce by only one type of reproduction and others can reproduce by both. This chapter looks at the differences, advantages and disadvantages of sexual and asexual reproduction.
It will also introduce the different types of organisms and the basic differences between them. Learning Objectives. 1  To understand the differences between eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells. 2  To be familiar with the different levels of organization of life.
All known types of organisms are capable of some degree of response to stimuli, reproduction, growth and development and homeostasis. An organism consists of one or more cells; when it has one cell is a unicellular organism; and when it has more than one it is known as a multicellular organism.