1 Goodwill raises money for their programs through a chain of thrift stores which also operate as non-profits. 2  The CEO of Goodwill Industries International is not Mark Curran, nor does he make. 3  a year. 4  The current President and CEO of Goodwill is Jim Gibbons, who in 2011 received a total reported compensation of $725,000. 
It is a good question absolutely, O'Donnell responded. Bottom line: The non-profit exists in order to help people with disabilities and disadvantages. Part of the profits pay for a charter school in Lee County. They are our students and they are our children, said Lynn Pottorf, Principal of Goodwill L.I.F.E. The goal is for them to go out and find something that they want to do, and that they are able to do and wherever that job may be, Pottorf explained. Goodwill's mission also extends to housing. The organization provides apartments which were built specifically for low-income seniors and people with disabilities.
Goodwill® has a more than 110 year-plus track record in providing services that meet critical human needs in local communities in the U.S., Canada, and 14 other countries. Goodwill is a leading social services enterprise, and consistently ranks among top charities that make your donations go further. You may also access information about Goodwill Industries International on GuideStar, an online nonprofit database that has certified Goodwill with the GuideStar Exchange Seal for our commitment to transparency.
Learn more about him. Goodwill Industries International earns $5 billion revenue per year, and we spend about 83 cents of every dollar on programs and services for people in need. This is a very healthy number in the nonprofit world, and a solid indicator of our commitment to good stewardship of your donations. You may also access information about Goodwill Industries International on GuideStar, an online nonprofit database that has certified Goodwill with the GuideStar Exchange Seal for our commitment to transparency.
An American multi-national corporation, which accepts millions of dollars in government funds, pays its top executives more than half a million dollars per year in total compensation, while simultaneously paying some of its employees less than the federal minimum wage. Some employees earn just 22 cents per hour. Goodwill uses the special minimum wage exemption to take advantage of 7,300 of its 105,000 employees. Brad Turner-Little, Director of Mission Strategy at Goodwill International, Inc., defended the practice as one of Goodwill's tools to help the disabled.
In California, smaller charities, such as D.A.R.E. America, say that Goodwill has acted like a nonprofit bully and is currently using powerful lobbyists to shut down their clothing donation programs. 1  $440,197- CEO of Goodwill Industries-Suncoast, Inc. 2  $316,685- CEO of Goodwill Industries of South Florida, Inc. Goodwill uses the special minimum wage exemption to take advantage of 7,300 of its 105,000 employees. Brad Turner-Little, Director of Mission Strategy at Goodwill International, Inc., defended the practice as one of Goodwill's tools to help the disabled.
Goodwill is not a normally recurring income statement item. However, goodwill must be tested regularly for impairment (a decline in its market value). If an impairment loss is found (its value on the books is greater than its market value), the loss must be reported immediately, and in full, on the income statement for the period in which the loss was identified. 
GOODWILL CEO and owner Mark Curran profits $2.3 million a year. Goodwill is a very catchy name for his business. You donate to his business and then he sells the items for PROFIT. He pays nothing for his products and pays his workers minimum wage! Nice Guy. $0.00 goes to help anyone! Stop giving to this man. Read more at http://www.snopes.com/politics/business/... Goodwill Industries is a charity. Their stores are in support of their real mission, which is providing job training and placement to people so that they can work and earn money rather than be dependent. With a 501(c)3 nonprofit, there isn't any they to profit off it.
Goodwill Industries International Inc. is an American nonprofit 501(c)(3) organization that provides job training, employment placement services, and other community-based programs for people who have disabilities. When merchandise cannot be sold at a normal Goodwill store, it is taken to a 'Goodwill Outlet' or 'Bargain Store.' Items are mostly sold by weight, with prices ranging from $0.49 to $1.69 per pound, depending on the location.