Ciprofloxacin is a prescription antibiotic. It belongs to a class of drugs called fluoroquinolones, or quinolones for short. This medication is an active ingredient in several different prescription products and is used to treat a variety of infections. Ciprofloxacin comes in many forms, including: 1  A regular tablet. 2  An extended-release tablet.
Tablets, oral liquid medicine and injection. Ciprofloxacin is given to treat a bacterial infection. It is useful for treating infections such as chest infections, urine infections, prostatitis, infections of the digestive system, bone and joint infections, and some sexually transmitted infections. 
Uses of This Medicine. Ciprofloxacin is used to treat bacterial infections in many different parts of the body. Ciprofloxacin oral liquid and tablets are also used to treat anthrax infection after inhalational exposure. Ciprofloxacin may mask or delay the symptoms of syphilis. It is not effective against syphilis infections. Ciprofloxacin extended-release tablets are only used to treat urinary tract infections, including acute uncomplicated pyelonephritis. Proquin® XR tablets are only used to treat uncomplicated or simple urinary tract infections (acute cystitis).
Ciprofloxacin is used to treat a wide variety of infections, including infections of bones and joints, endocarditis, gastroenteritis, malignant otitis externa, respiratory tract infections, cellulitis, urinary tract infections, prostatitis, anthrax, and chancroid. Ciprofloxacin increases the risk of tendon rupture and worsening muscle weakness in people with the neurological disorder myasthenia gravis. Rates of side effects appear to be higher than some groups of antibiotics such as cephalosporins but lower than others such as clindamycin
Ciprofloxacin is an antibiotic in a group of drugs called fluoroquinolones (flor-o-KWIN-o-lones). Ciprofloxacin fights bacteria in the body. Ciprofloxacin is used to treat different types of bacterial infections. Ciprofloxacin may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. 
Ciprofloxacin is a prescription antibiotic that belongs to a group of drugs called fluoroquinolones, or just quinolones for short. It is available in several different forms and strengths, and is used to treat a variety of infections. Although this drug is considered a broad spectrum antibiotic, which means it is effective against many different types of bacteria, not all bacteria will respond to it. Ciprofloxacin will not work to cure infections caused by viruses, such as the common cold, the flu, or viral conjunctivitis.
Ciprofloxacin is the generic form of the brand-name antibiotic Cipro. Doctors prescribe ciprofloxacin to treat or prevent infections caused by various bacteria that are sensitive to ciprofloxacin. The drug works by preventing bacteria from reproducing. Ciprofloxacin belongs to a family of antibiotics called fluoroquinolones. Common infections treated with ciprofloxacin include: 1  Skin infections. 2  Sinusitis. 3  Urinary tract infections (UTI). 4  Prostatitis. 5  Pneumonia. 6  Bone and joint infections. 7  Diarrhea caused by bacteria. 8  Gonorrhea. 9  Typhoid fever.
Descriptions. Ciprofloxacin is used to treat bacterial infections in many different parts of the body. Ciprofloxacin oral liquid and tablets are also used to treat anthrax infection after inhalational exposure. Ciprofloxacin may mask or delay the symptoms of syphilis. It is not effective against syphilis infections. Ciprofloxacin belongs to the class of drugs known as quinolone antibiotics. It works by killing bacteria or preventing their growth. However, this medicine will not work for colds, flu, or other virus infections. This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription.