The highlight of this event: Michael J. Fox closing the show by playing Johnny B. Goode, a la the scene from Back To The Future where Marty McFly inspires a young Chuck Berry through his guitar at the Enchantment Under The Sea dance. 
RE: Did Michael J. Fox acutally play the song Johnny B. Goode in Back to the Future? I&#39;ve watched the movie and always wondered if he could actually rock that hard. Session guitarist Brian May did the guitar work, singer Mark Campbell did the vocals. The guitar playing was choreographed and MJF lipsynced it. Brian May and Mark Campbell are listed in the end credits under 'Special Thanks To:' The guitar is a Gibson ES-345 in Vintage Cherry, modified with a Bigsby tremolo unit.
Thank You!!! The guitar Marty McFly (Michael J. Fox) plays in the 1985 classic movie “Back To The Future” is a 1958 Gibson. ES-345. So, apparently on his way back to 1955, Marty must have made a quick stop in 1958 to pick up the guitar because that was when it was first produced by Gibson. Here’s the Gibson catalogue from 1958. The biggest difference is Marty’s guitar was retrofitted with a Bigsby Vibrato.
Johnny B. Goode. 1,920 pages on this wiki. Johnny B. Goode was the title of the song performed by Marty McFly and the Starlighters at the Enchantment Under the Sea dance on November 12, 1955. Marty introduced the song as an oldie , and instructed the band to play a blues riff for a backup. Back to the Future: The Game. 1  If you click on the microphone in the Speakeasy, Marty will start to sing Johnny B. Goode on-stage, only to stop before the first lyric.
There are a bunch of corrections and retractions in this article. The guitar Marty McFly (Michael J. Fox) plays in the 1985 classic movie “Back To The Future” is a 1958 Gibson. ES-345. So, apparently on his way back to 1955, Marty must have made a quick stop in 1958 to pick up the guitar because that was when it was first produced by Gibson. Here’s the Gibson catalogue from 1958. The biggest difference is Marty’s guitar was retrofitted with a Bigsby Vibrato.
Guitars were prevalent in Marty McFly 's life. He possessed several guitars and guitar equipment and ended up playing more along his travels, including a Erlewine Chiquita at Doc's garage, an Ibanez at his band audition, and a Gibson ES-345 electric guitar at the Enchantment Under the Sea dance. In 2015, 47-year-old Marty attempted to play one of his guitars, but found this impossible because of his damaged hand, which he had broken in an auto accident involving a Rolls-Royce in 1985.
Behind the scenes.  1 Johnny B. Goode was actually composed and first performed by Chuck Berry in March 1958. 2  Michael J. Fox 's performance of the song is one of the signature moments of Back to the Future. 3  Marty's singing was dubbed by Mark Campbell. Back to the Future: The Game. 1  If you click on the microphone in the Speakeasy, Marty will start to sing Johnny B. Goode on-stage, only to stop before the first lyric.
The loud guitar work isn’t from an unreleased song, as many VH fans secretly hoped. It’s “just a bunch of noise,” Van Halen says. If you forget the scene, you can watch below. Marty McFly, played by Michael J. Fox, puts on a space suit and slips a cassette into his walkman. It’s a radical device in 1955 America, as is Eddie’s guitar work. The older McFly, played by Crispin Glover, is terrified by the noise but willing to listen to whatever this spaceman has to say. 
Back to the Future is a 1985 American comic science fiction film directed by Robert Zemeckis, written by Zemeckis and Bob Gale, produced by Gale and Neil Canton, and starring Michael J. Fox, Christopher Lloyd, Lea Thompson, Crispin Glover and Thomas F. Wilson. The first choice for the role of Marty McFly was Michael J. Fox. However, he was busy filming his television series Family Ties and the show's producers would not allow him to star in the film. Consequently, Eric Stoltz was cast in the role.
1 Johnny B. Goode was actually composed and first performed by Chuck Berry in March 1958. 2  Michael J. Fox 's performance of the song is one of the signature moments of Back to the Future. Back to the Future: The Game. 1  If you click on the microphone in the Speakeasy, Marty will start to sing Johnny B. Goode on-stage, only to stop before the first lyric.