Confidence votes 150. I am a lcarosse player and a coach. What you do to measure the length of the shaft. (Stick part) Put your arm out straight and then put the stack next to or under your arm. What you then do is see the lenght of the stick size, and it shouldn'r be shorter than your arm. * A long-stick midfield or d-pole less than 52 inches and more tha … n 72 inches long is illegal.  * If the distance from the top of the head of any stick to the bottom of the stop is less than 10 inches-it
Defender Sticks. The longest of the lacrosse sticks belongs to the defenders and long-stick middles. The total length of the long sticks must be between 52 and 72 inches with a maximum shaft length of 60 inches. The head on a long stick must have a width ranging between 6.5 and 10 inches. The length of the long stick provides greater defense than the short stick and can aide in keeping attacking players away.
For a six foot tall goalie that would mean 52.5 inches on the long end and 49 inches on the short end. I wouldn’t trade length for cutting down passes if it makes stopping the ball awkward. This is remnants of old school thinking that a goalies stick should be able to cut down passes like a defender would. Question: My son play goalie for his high-school LAX team and stand about 6ft I was wondering what you would recommend his stick length to be, a balance of being able to maneuver in the net yet interfere with passes. Answer: Mark my stick is 46″ in length and I’m 5’8″.
Minimum size for a lacrosse stick for high school players and other “big kids” is 40 inches. These are the so-called short sticks in lacrosse. Most short sticks sold are either 40 or 42 inches. 40 to 42 inches is too long a stick for many munchkins. While these sticks can help the kids pick up ground balls, they are very hard for some kids to protect and control. Cutting down a stick to 37 inches will greatly improve many elementary school players’ stick skills.
Kevin your stick should be somewhere between 41 inches and 44 inches long. Start with it at 44 and see how that feels and then work your way down an inch at a time if you want to go shorter. Question: My son play goalie for his high-school LAX team and stand about 6ft I was wondering what you would recommend his stick length to be, a balance of being able to maneuver in the net yet interfere with passes. Answer: Mark my stick is 46″ in length and I’m 5’8″.
In men's lacrosse, the head of the stick may be 6 to 10 inches (15 to 25 cm) wide under NCAA rules (or from four to ten inches wide under international (FIL) rules). The head of the goalie 's stick is much larger and may be 10 to 12 inches wide under US Lacrosse and NCAA rules (or up to 15 inches wide under FIL rules). The sidewalls of the head (i.e. , the side portion of the head) may not be more than two inches tall.
Goalie Stick. The goalie stick can only be used by the goalies and must be between 52 and 72 inches long with a maximum shaft length of 40 inches. Unlike the heads of the other sticks, the width of the goalie stick's head must be between 10 and 12 inches. The total length of the long sticks must be between 52 and 72 inches with a maximum shaft length of 60 inches. The head on a long stick must have a width ranging between 6.5 and 10 inches. The length of the long stick provides greater defense than the short stick and can aide in keeping attacking players away.
The Goalie Stick: The last type of different lacrosse sticks is the goalie stick. This is used only by goalies. Its shaft is about 40 inches long. According to US Lacrosse, the complete goalie stick must be between 52 and 72 inches. The width of the head is between 10 and 12 inches. As you can see, the goalie stick has a much bigger head than the other sticks. According the the official US Lacrosse regulations, the long stick (including head and shaft) must be between 52 and 72 inches. The shaft is about 60 inches. The head of the long stick must have a width between 6.5 and 10 inches.
The head of the stick is usually attached to the shaft with a screw to keep it in place. Stick length is governed by NCAA regulations, which require that men's sticks (including the head) be from 40 to 42 inches long for offensive players, 52 to 72 inches long for defensemen, and 40 to 72 inches long for goalies. The head of the goalie 's stick is much larger and may be 10 to 12 inches wide under US Lacrosse and NCAA rules (or up to 15 inches wide under FIL rules). The sidewalls of the head (i.e. , the side portion of the head) may not be more than two inches tall.