Learning Disability. Learning disabilities, such as dyslexia, affect a person's ability to understand or use language, to do math calculations, to coordinate movements, or to direct attention. They are usually diagnosed in children once they start school. 1  Definition. 2  Symptoms. 3  Causes. 4  Treatments. 
Site 4 – A rural learning disabilities team providing community-based services to adults with learning disabilities and their carers. No members of staff completed questionnaires at this site and no service users or carers were interviewed. Site 5 – A rural community and mental health team for older people. 
The Foundation for People with Learning Disabilities was commissioned to write a report about the mental health of people with learning disabilities as well as offer information to people with learning disabilities and their families to support their access to mental health services. 30 A guide for people with learning disabilities The guide for people with learning disabilities was developed because most people interviewed and all the members of the reference group felt that it was important for them to have control over their lives.
3 CRITICAL NEED FOR IMPROVEMENT IN SERVICES People with learning disabilities are a vulnerable population who have a signiﬁcantly higher risk of developing mental health problems which can be overlooked or wrongly attributed to the learning disability itself. Guidance for commissioners of mental health services for people with learning disabilities 3 Ten key messages for commissioners Many people with learning disabilities live full and rewarding lives as part of their local communities. In order to do this, they need support to have good mental health and wellbeing
This is done under Section 3 of the Mental Health Act. a) voluntary admission A person with learning disabilities aged 16+ may agree to be admitted to a hospital unit as a ‘voluntary’ or ‘informal’ patient if they have the mental capacity to consent and a psychiatrist agrees it is in their interests. 
Your rights. The Mental Welfare Commission puts individuals with a mental illness, learning disability or related condition at the heart of all we do; promoting their welfare and safeguarding their rights. Sometimes, when people are unwell, they may have to be detained in hospital or have treatment against their will. But they still have rights. We all have human rights, and mental health law contains special rights and safeguards to protect people.
The loneliness of some people with learning disabilities – one in four people interviewed for the research said they didn’t have any friends – is putting them at particular risk.There are many barriers to the early identification and diagnosis of mental health issues in people with learning disabilities. 30 A guide for people with learning disabilities The guide for people with learning disabilities was developed because most people interviewed and all the members of the reference group felt that it was important for them to have control over their lives.
A diagnosis of a profound and multiple learning disability (PMLD) is used when a child has more than one disability, with the most significant being a learning disability. Many children diagnosed with PMLD will also have a sensory or physical disability, complex health needs, or mental health difficulties. A learning disability affects the way a person learns new things in any area of life, not just at school. Find out how a learning disability can affect someone, and where you can find support. A learning disability affects the way a person understands information and how they communicate.
Royal College of Psychiatrists 33 In-patient service provision for people with learning disability and mental health or behavioural problems n uMbers of beds and optiMising their use A striking feature is the different figures that are available for bed numbers in this area. Royal College of Psychiatrists 23 In-patient service provision for people with learning disability and mental health or behavioural problems & Baines, 2012) that makes their presentation even more complex.