Viscose is pretty much the opposite of polyester in every way. Viscose is a kind of rayon that is not made from polymers like polyester is. Viscose is a regenerated cellulose fiber (meaning that it's made from plant material) more like cotton or linen. Viscose rayon is a medium-weight fiber with fair to good strength and abrasion resistance.... 
Definition of VISCOSE. 1. : a viscous golden-brown solution made by treating cellulose with caustic alkali solution and carbon disulfide and used in making rayon and films of regenerated cellulose. 2. : viscose rayon. ADVERTISEMENT. obsolete viscose, adjective, viscous. 
Byproducts of the production process include sodium thiocarbonate, sodium carbonate, and sodium sulfide. Viscose rayon fiber is a soft fiber commonly used in dresses, linings, shirts, shorts, coats, jackets, and other outer wear; it is also used in industrial yarns (tyre cord), upholstery and carpets. It is also used in the casting of Cellophane.
The World of. VISCOSE. Viscose fiber is made from purified cellulose, it is produced from specially processed wood pulp. Viscose is very similar to cotton and silk. It is a fine and soft material commonly used in t-shirts, tunics, shirts and dresses ,all of them ,includes cellulose. viscose cotton; Same with the one above. viscose fiber; The Fiber which is produced from the celulose of Special Trees. viscose fibre; Same with the one above. viscose material; The Fabric made from Viscose Fibre.
Fabric Details. This 75% Viscose Rayon / 25% Silk blend fabric is delicious. Not in the actual taste sense, but in the more figurative one, if you catch my drift. With a weight equivalent to 18mm, this fabric has a nice luxurious feel and a beautiful rayon drape. 
Viscose is often referred to as faux silk and goes by the everyday name of rayon. Viscose's high moisture absorbency (13%, as opposed to 8% for cotton) and shade depth allow it to be dyed with deep and brilliant colors, but also can make it a delicate to wash. 8. Optionally, spritz the rug with dilute fabric softener. Viscose fibers can stiffen as they dry, creating clumped, splotchy sections on your rug. To help prevent this, you may want to mist the rug ever-so-delicately with a mixture of fabric softener and water using a spray bottle.
Rayon is the generic term for fiber (and the resulting yarn and fabric) manufactured of regenerated cellulose by any one of six processes. Its importance as a fiber lies in its versatility, and in the fact that it was the first viable manufactured fiber. When viscose rayon can be hand washed, do so with care. Always support wet fabrics, since rayon has low wet strength and is unstable when wet. Avoid wringing moisture from fabrics. Gently squeeze out moisture and roll in a towel.
1 Cupramonium Rayon is another type with properties similar to those of viscose or regular rayon. 2  The manufacturing process differs somewhat from that of regular rayon and is less environmentally friendly. When viscose rayon can be hand washed, do so with care. Always support wet fabrics, since rayon has low wet strength and is unstable when wet. Avoid wringing moisture from fabrics. Gently squeeze out moisture and roll in a towel.
Viscose rayon is a fiber of regenerated cellulose; it is structurally similar to cotton but may be produced from a variety of plants such as soy, bamboo, and sugar cane. Cellulose is a linear polymer of β-D-glucose units with the empirical formula (C 6 H 10 O 5) n. Viscose rayon fiber is a soft fiber commonly used in dresses, linings, shirts, shorts, coats, jackets, and other outer wear; it is also used in industrial yarns (tyre cord), upholstery and carpets. It is also used in the casting of Cellophane.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Viscose is both a semi-synthetic fabric formerly called viscose rayon or rayon and a solution of cellulose xanthate produced by treating dissolving pulp with aqueous sodium hydroxide and carbon disulfide used to spin the viscose rayon fiber. Viscose rayon fiber is a soft fiber commonly used in dresses, linings, shirts, shorts, coats, jackets, and other outer wear; it is also used in industrial yarns (tyre cord), upholstery and carpets. It is also used in the casting of Cellophane.