DNA Repair Genes. When it comes to cancer and how things can go wrong in the cell cycle, three different genes are very important: 1  An oncogene is a proto-oncogene that has been mutated. 2  Proto-oncogenes stimulate the cell to grow, divide and move through each cell cycle checkpoint to be inspected.
http://www.og1.abc2222.com Having a basic understand of DNA and about DNA repair will allow you to fully understand how our body functions and what you can do to have a healthier body. Basically, DNA is hereditary cell materials that are responsible for functioning and development of the body.
DNA, like any other molecule, can undergo a variety of chemical reactions. Because DNA uniquely serves as a permanent copy of the cell genome, however, changes in its structure are of much greater consequence than are alterations in other cell components, such as RNAs or proteins.
DNA repair is a collection of processes by which a cell identifies and corrects damage to the DNA molecules that encode its genome.
The repair of uracil-containing DNA is a good example of base-excision repair, in which single damaged bases are recognized and removed from the DNA molecule (Figure 5.23).
The rate of DNA repair is dependent on many factors, including the cell type, the age of the cell, and the extracellular environment.
The DNA repair ability of a cell is vital to the integrity of its genome and thus to the normal functionality of that organism. Many genes that were initially shown to influence life span have turned out to be involved in DNA damage repair and protection.
Such damage to DNA can block replication or transcription, and can result in a high frequency of mutations—consequences that are unacceptable from the standpoint of cell reproduction. To maintain the integrity of their genomes, cells have therefore had to evolve mechanisms to repair damaged DNA.
For instance, base excision repair (BER) is the predominant mechanism that handles the spontaneous DNA damage caused by free radicals and other reactive species generated by metabolism. Bases can become oxidized, alkylated, or hydrolyzed through interactions with these agents.