Powerful and complete. You are good intellectually and require several outlets for your energies. You are not a builder but a planner, and you want others to carry out your plans.You are bold, independent, inquisitive and interested in research. You know what you want and why you want it. It is a symbol of Earth, the 4th element. Fours are here to build a firm foundation, to labor with concentration and secure the right to work out their patterns of freedom from any obstacles-poverty, heartache and failure. Fours are very down-to-earth, good grounded people.
Meaning of name Ankush, Origin of name Ankush, Personality of name Ankush, Gallery of Cute Indian Baby Pictures of Ankush and adorable Baby boy Photos of Ankush. All this and lots more... If you believe in Numerology, click to see if the name Ankush is lucky! 
Meaning of Indian name: Ankush. Meaning of the name Ankush is 'Restraint'. Ankush is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for males. The name number for Ankush is '2'. Click here to get the numerological analysis for the name 'Ankush'.
Name Ankush generally means Check or Control or An Instrument used for guiding elephants, is of Indian origin, Name Ankush is a Masculine (or Boy) name. Person with name Ankush are mainly Hindu by religion. Find qualities of Aries (Mesh) or Find Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Ankush or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday or Find compatibility of Mesh (Aries) with other zodiac signs. Similar sounding names: Ankesh, Anikesh. Show more information for this name
Meaning of Ankush. Indian name. In Indian, the name Ankush means-a hook a goad a restraint.The name Ankush originated as an Indian name. The name Ankush is most often used as a boy name or male name. Indian Name Meaning-a hook a goad a restraint. Origin-India
Length: 6. Gender: Boy. Name Meaning: check; an instrument used for guiding elephants. Numerology Namank (Destiny Number): Ankush's Namank or Destiny Number is 4. Name Rasi: Aries*. Name Nakshstra: Krittika* Note: *Rasi and Nakshatra are approximate calculated using sounds. 
The Hidden Passion Number represents your hidden talent. It shapes your personality, and guides your life. There are also the Karmic Lessons Numbers, associated with your full name (first name, middle name and last name) as it spelled in your birth certificate. To see these numbers, please, enter your FULL NAME. It is a symbol of Earth, the 4th element. Fours are here to build a firm foundation, to labor with concentration and secure the right to work out their patterns of freedom from any obstacles-poverty, heartache and failure. Fours are very down-to-earth, good grounded people.
The baby boy name Ankush comes from the Indian word which means, Control.. Hindi (indian) word which means, Restrain (to control the actions or behaviour of someone by force, especially in order to stop them from doing something, or to limit the growth or force of something).. 