Oil & Gas Downstream Processing. ANSYS FEA and CFD simulation software has been used extensively in the design and engineering of the Oil & Gas equipment. A number of SimuTech customers are using ANSYS FEA and CFD software for Oil & Gas downstream processing projects. 
The different steps and unit processes used in downstream processing of biotech products highly depends on the nature of the product, the level of purification required and whether the product is intracellular or extracellular. In simple terms, the product extraction and purification steps carried out subsequent to product formation are called downstream processing. It is the most important part that decides the quality of the desired product obtained from the initial raw materials.
Term used to describe one of the three major stages of oil and gas industry operations. Midstream activities include the processing, storing, transporting and marketing of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids. DEFINITION of 'Midstream'. Term used to describe one of the three major stages of oil and gas industry operations. Midstream activities include the processing, storing, transporting and marketing of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids. Next Up.
Downstream Processing in Biotech Industry. Article Summary: Any industrial process will require a sequence of unit operations that are involved in the extraction, separation, concentration and purification of the desired product. In simple terms, the product extraction and purification steps carried out subsequent to product formation are called downstream processing. It is the most important part that decides the quality of the desired product obtained from the initial raw materials.
Downstream processing is usually considered a specialized field in biochemical engineering, itself a specialization within chemical engineering, though many of the key technologies were developed by chemists and biologists for laboratory-scale separation of biological products. It is an essential step in the manufacture of pharmaceuticals such as antibiotics, hormones (e.g. insulin and human growth hormone), antibodies (e.g. infliximab and abciximab) and vaccines; antibodies and enzymes used in diagnostics; industrial enzymes; and natural fragrance and flavor compounds.
Downstream processing implies manufacture of a purified product fit for a specific use, generally in marketable quantities, while analytical bioseparation refers to purification for the sole purpose of measuring a component or components of a mixture, and may deal with sample sizes as small as a single cell. It is an essential step in the manufacture of pharmaceuticals such as antibiotics, hormones (e.g. insulin and human growth hormone), antibodies (e.g. infliximab and abciximab) and vaccines; antibodies and enzymes used in diagnostics; industrial enzymes; and natural fragrance and flavor compounds.
Downstream processing and analytical bioseparation both refer to the separation or purification of biological products, but at different scales of operation and for different purposes. It is an essential step in the manufacture of pharmaceuticals such as antibiotics, hormones (e.g. insulin and human growth hormone), antibodies (e.g. infliximab and abciximab) and vaccines; antibodies and enzymes used in diagnostics; industrial enzymes; and natural fragrance and flavor compounds.
Downstream processing refers to the recovery and purification of biosynthetic products, particularly pharmaceuticals, from natural sources such as animal or plant tissue or fermentation broth, including the recycling of salvageable components and the proper treatment and disposal of waste. It is an essential step in the manufacture of pharmaceuticals such as antibiotics, hormones (e.g. insulin and human growth hormone), antibodies (e.g. infliximab and abciximab) and vaccines; antibodies and enzymes used in diagnostics; industrial enzymes; and natural fragrance and flavor compounds.
Midstream activities are commonly included as part of downstream operations for much of the oil and gas industry. The midstream and downstream activities take place after the initial production phase and through to the point of sale. DEFINITION of 'Midstream'. Term used to describe one of the three major stages of oil and gas industry operations. Midstream activities include the processing, storing, transporting and marketing of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids. Next Up.