Inflamed tonsils. Tonsillitis is most often caused by common viruses, but bacterial infections can also be the cause. The most common bacterium causing tonsillitis is Streptococcus pyogenes (group A streptococcus), the bacterium that causes strep throat. Other strains of strep and other bacteria also may cause tonsilliti
Tonsillitis (/ˌtɒnsɪˈlaɪtɪs/ TON-si-LEYE-tis) is inflammation of the tonsils most commonly caused by viral or bacterial infection. Symptoms may include sore throat and fever. When caused by a bacterium belonging to the group A streptococcus, it is typically referred to as strep throat. 
Causes of tonsillitis. Most cases of tonsillitis are caused by a viral infection. Viruses known to cause tonsillitis include: 1  rhinoviruses – which are viruses that cause the common cold. 2  the influenza virus. 3  parainfluenza virus – which causes laryngitis and croup. 4  enteroviruses – which cause hand, foot and mouth disease
Bacterial and viral infections can cause tonsillitis. A common cause is Streptococcus (strep) bacteria. Other common causes include: 1  Adenoviruses. 2  Influenza virus. 3  Epstein-Barr virus. 4  Parainfluenza viruses. 5  Enteroviruses. 6  Herpes simplex virus. The main symptoms of tonsillitis are inflammation and swelling of the tonsils, sometimes severe enough to block the airways. Other symptoms include: 1  Throat pain or tenderness. 2  Redness of the tonsils. 3  A white or yellow coating on the tonsils. 4  Painful blisters or ulcers on the throat. 5  Hoarseness or loss of voice
A person with tonsillitis caused by strep bacteria is contagious early on and, without treatment, can remain so for up to 2 weeks. Antibiotics shorten the contagious period, and an infected person is no longer contagious about 24 to 48 hours after beginning antibiotic therapy. Tonsillitis is usually caused by a virus. Bacteria can also cause tonsillitis. The most common bacterial cause of tonsillitis is group A beta-hemolytic streptococcus (GABHS), which also causes strep throat.
Tonsillitis can be caused by a virus, such as the common cold, or by a bacterial infection, such as strep throat. Children come into close contact with others at school and play, exposing them to a variety of viruses and bacteria. This makes them particularly vulnerable to the germs that cause tonsillitis. Symptoms include a sore throat, swollen tonsils, and fever. This condition can be caused by a variety of common viruses and bacteria and is contagious. If left untreated, tonsillitis caused by strep throat (Streptococcus bacteria) can lead to serious complications. Tonsillitis is easily diagnosed and treated
Symptoms of tonsillitis. Common tonsillitis symptoms include sore throat, visibly red and swollen tonsils, white patches on the tonsils, fever, headache, difficulty swallowing, stomach pain, loss of voice, enlarged lymph nodes in the neck and jaw, runny or stuffy nose, sneezing, and coughing. Causes of tonsillitis. Tonsillitis has both viral and bacterial causes, though most cases are caused by viruses such as Epstein-Barr (associated with mononucleosis) and adenovirus. When tonsillitis is caused by the Group A streptococcal bacteria, the condition is more commonly termed  strep throat .