Every time I speak with a rep. about granite, oh, it is tough as a bullet. Can't stain it, you can set hot pots on it, it's only second in hardness to diamonds.. I have read horror stories about granite staining all over the internet and this site. I'd like to know if anyone has dealt with e-counters. I have found they have the best price on Sensa granite.
SenSa granite is maintenance-free, premium natural granite. SenSa granite is treated with a revolutionary stain protection treatment called SenGuard and comes with a 15 year stain warranty. SenGuard is a protective agent on a small molecular level that penetrates the stone’s porous surface to form a chemical bond. Marble is a natural stone known for often having attractive veins and patterns. Marble is softer than granite and therefore not as scratch resistant. Most marble ranks 3 out of 10 on the Mohs scale of hardness and is heat
Granite is also a great materials for bathroom vanities, floors, and any other heavily used surface. Quarried from the mountains of Italy, the U.S., India, and dozens of other countries around the world, granite is one of the most popular natural stones on the market for countertops. Granite is also one of the most bacteria-resistant kitchen surfaces, and is not affected by citric acid, coffee, tea, alcohol, or wine. Granite is also nearly impossible to scratch, and with proper cleaning, will not stain under normal use. Sealants are available to further improve stain resistance.
A: Each slab of SenSa granite is one-of-a-kind and carefully quarried by Cosentino using state-of-the-art equipment to provide the highest quality stone. Strength, durability and uniqueness make SenSa Granite the ideal choice for kitchen countertops as well as other surfaces in the home. Granite is also one of the most bacteria-resistant kitchen surfaces, and is not affected by citric acid, coffee, tea, alcohol, or wine. Granite is also nearly impossible to scratch, and with proper cleaning, will not stain under normal use. Sealants are available to further improve stain resistance.
I kept hearing over and over from people in the granite business that Sensa was really just a sealer and most found it hard to believe that it would really resist stains for 15 years. It's hard to determine how much is true versus the hype for the product. Like Bookmark August 5, 2009 at 3:25AM. I'd like to know if anyone has dealt with e-counters. I have found they have the best price on Sensa granite.
Cabinetry: Diamond Reflections Heyword Maple door in Cider; counters: Stone Systems Sensa Granite, Blanco Leblon; valance: Lowe's drapery, trimmed to fit the space; orchids, glass vessels: Lowe's. The Kitchen Source, kitchen remode. Design ideas for a contemporary galley eat-in kitchen in Dallas with an undermount sink, raised-panel cabinets, medium tone wood cabinets, granite countertops, multi-colored backsplash, glass sheet backsplash and stainless steel appliances.
Undo. baylorbear. We priced Sensa granite from Lowe's and we found that we could get it much cheaper from the flooring/countertop company that we are going to go with instead. We were looking at the Baltic Cream color at Lowe's and it was approximately $50/sq. foot (I can't remember if that included installation). My husband and I are dying to re-do our countertops, and ended up talking to a rep at Lowes this weekend about thier Sensa granite.
We're going with a different granite instead (not Sensa), but I added a 15-year stain warranty (Pro-Advance Sealer) to it. We might rent this house in the future, so I thought adding the stain protection would be a good idea. My husband and I are dying to re-do our countertops, and ended up talking to a rep at Lowes this weekend about thier Sensa granite.
I AM in the industry as many of you know. Sensa and Stonemark have made a place in the stone busines by feeding on the fear of granite staining. Some granites have staining issues. Cashmires, Ornamentals, St Cecilias due to their density and water absorption rates. I'd like to know if anyone has dealt with e-counters. I have found they have the best price on Sensa granite.
The same Sensa granite from the other company was $17/sq. ft. plus $24/sq. ft. for fabrication and installation. My husband and I are dying to re-do our countertops, and ended up talking to a rep at Lowes this weekend about thier Sensa granite.