Arsenic, with the chemical symbol As and the atomic number of 33, is a chemical element that occurs in many other minerals such as sulfur and metals. It is a metalloid which usually has a metallic gray appearance. 1 Arsenic is used in the medical treatment of cancers such as acute promyelocytic leukemia. 2  It is also used in medical solutions such as Fowler’s solution for psoriasis. 3  Arsenic-74 an isotope is being used as a way to locate tumours within the body.
During the 18th, 19th, and 20th centuries, a number of arsenic compounds have been used as medicines, including arsphenamine (by Paul Ehrlich) and arsenic trioxide (by Thomas Fowler). Arsphenamine as well as Neosalvarsan was indicated for syphilis and trypanosomiasis, but has been superseded by modern antibiotics. … It is used in fireworks to impart color to the flame. Arsenic Sulfide,Yellow As2S3 This Chemical is just as poisonous as its red brother and is also used in fireworks, somewhat. The common name is Kings Gold.   Arsenious Oxide As4O6 A white, highly poisonous powder used in fireworks.
Arsenic has many applications: Some compounds of arsenic are used as insecticides.In medicine, arsenic trioxide is used in the treatment of psoriasis. An isotope of arsenic (A … s-74) is used as a tracer in some diagnostic imaging.Most metallic arsenic is used in forming alloys of lead and copper. (Unalloyed lead is too soft for many purposes).Arsenic atoms are used to create n-type regions in silicon, when fabricating transistors and integrated circuits. … It is used in fireworks to impart color to the flame. Arsenic Sulfide,Yellow As2S3 This Chemical is just as poisonous as its red brother and is also used in fireworks, somewhat. The common name is Kings Gold.   Arsenious Oxide As4O6 A white, highly poisonous powder used in fireworks.
Arsenic is a natural element that can be found in rocks and soil, water, air, and in plants and animals. It can also be released into the environment from some agricultural and industrial sources. Although it is sometimes found in its pure form as a steel grey metal, arsenic is usually part of chemical compounds. 
Arsenic is a chemical element with symbol As and atomic number 33. Arsenic occurs in many minerals, usually in conjunction with sulfur and metals, and also as a pure elemental crystal. Arsenic is a metalloid. It can exist in various allotropes, although only the gray form has important use in industry. A broad variety of sulfur compounds of arsenic are known. Orpiment (As2S3) and realgar (As4S4) are somewhat abundant and were formerly used as painting pigments. In As 4 S 10, arsenic has a formal oxidation state of +2 in As 4 S 4 which features As-As bonds so that the total covalency of As is still 3.
Arsenic level between 10 ppb and 500 ppb*. Do not drink your water or use it to prepare foods that require a lot of water (e.g., infant formula, soups, Jell-O, rice, coffee, tea) if the arsenic level is above 10 ppb. Washing foods and dishes in the water is safe, and is not a significant source of exposure. Arsenic is a naturally occurring mineral found in soil, bedrock, and water. In its pure form, arsenic is a silver-gray or white brittle metal. Arsenic has no odor and is almost tasteless. Arsenic and its compounds have a variety of commercial uses. Manufacturers use arsenic to make other metals, glass, electronic components, and wood preservatives
Answer: Arsenic is a poisonous chemical often used in herbicides and pesticides and is classified as a Class 1 carcinogen, meaning it is highly toxic to humans. Other Class 1 carcinogens include asbestos, formaldehyde and hepatitis B and C viruses. 
ARSENIC Overview Information. Arsenic is a trace element. It is found in several foods including seafood, poultry, grains (especially rice), bread, cereal products, mushrooms, and dairy products. Some forms of arsenic are used as medicine. Despite serious safety concerns, arsenic is often used as a part of extremely diluted homeopathic remedies that are used for digestive disorders, food poisoning, sleep problems (insomnia), allergies, anxiety, depression, and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Arsenic is a trace element that occurs naturally in very small amounts in the diet. Its exact functions are not known. The estimated adult daily intake of arsenic from a typical diet is 12-50 mcg. A dietary requirement of 12-25 mcg/day has been suggested. In leukemia, arsenic trioxide increases death of cancer cells.
The main use of metallic arsenic is for strengthening alloys of copper and especially lead (for example, in car batteries). Arsenic is a common n-type dopant in semiconductor electronic devices, and the optoelectronic compound gallium arsenide is the most common semiconductor in use after doped silicon. A broad variety of sulfur compounds of arsenic are known. Orpiment (As2S3) and realgar (As4S4) are somewhat abundant and were formerly used as painting pigments. In As 4 S 10, arsenic has a formal oxidation state of +2 in As 4 S 4 which features As-As bonds so that the total covalency of As is still 3.