Snapdeal launches instant refund facility. Online marketplace Snapdeal on Friday launched its instant refund facility to help its customers get refunds within one hour of receiving the returned products, a company statement said here. Launched in July, Shopo is a mobile-only platform, which aims to bring small and medium businesses (SMBs) that cannot register on bigger e-commerce portals. BLACK by XOLO goes live on Snapdeal. Black by XOLO, the first device launched under its online exclusive brand, will now be available for purchas
About Snapdeal. Snapdeal.com is an online marketplace, featuring a wide assortment of products across categories like Mobiles, Electronics, Fashion accessories, Apparel, Sports, Books; and services like Restaurants, Spas & Entertainment amongst others. Snapdeal features the Best Deals on products and services at unbeatable prices. We are a one-stop-shop website for the best stuff to do, see, eat, feel and buy in your city. Our company philosophy is very simple; we treat our customers the way we like to be treated
1. Create a return/replacement request online. You can replace the product bought on Snapdeal within 7-days of delivery. 2. Login to your Snapdeal Account and go to MY ORDERS section. 3. Select the item you wish to replace and click on the Return/Replace link against the order. 
Over a period of time snapdeal evolved from Groupon model to Amazon model......They understood the trend and shifted there with existing customer based. They are making money through profit sharing with retailer. Groupon business model is fairly straightforward. Groupon does not pay the merchant anything upfront. Groupon promises the merchant a certain minimum number of customers, say 30 and negotiates an attractive price for helping achieve this 'bulk sale'.
Snapdeal has grown to become one of the largest online marketplace in India offering an assortment of 10 million products across diverse categories from over 100,000 sellers, shipping to 5,000+ towns and cities in India. In March 2015, Snapdeal brought actor Aamir Khan for the promotion of its website in India. 1 Round 4: Snapdeal received its 4th round of funding of $133 million on Feb-2014. 2  The 4th round of funding was led by eBay with all the current institutional investors, including Kalaari Capital, Nexus Venture Partners, Bessemer Venture Partners, Intel Capital and Saama Capital all participating.
Snapdeal hopes to draw coders back to India. Manjunath Kiran/Agence France-Presse/Getty Images. Despite India’s brainy army of computer engineers, Snapdeal.com–one of the country’s largest e-commerce companies and a $2 billion startup–says it’s not finding the coders it needs most. While Snapdeal will be looking abroad for talent, it still expects to be hiring Indians who have built their skills away from home. The more than 10 specialists it is hiring will help lead and train others on its team in India.
Snapdeal.com is India's largest online marketplace, featuring a wide assortment of products across categories like Mobiles, Electronics, Laptops, Cameras, Fashion accessories, Apparel and Footwear, Kids, Home and Kitchen, Sports, Books etc. Good morning, The conversation I had with the snapdeal person was not very comfortable. The lady and the her supervisor who spoke with me were not addressing the real issue what I am talking about and he is asking me to go puma and ask for replacement without showing that I bought this shoe from snap deal.
Snapdeal is an online marketplace, New Delhi, India. The company was started by Kunal Bahl, a Wharton graduate as part of the dual degree M&T Engineering and Business program at Penn, and Rohit Bansal, an alumnus of IIT Delhi in February 2010. 1 Round 4: Snapdeal received its 4th round of funding of $133 million on Feb-2014. 2  The 4th round of funding was led by eBay with all the current institutional investors, including Kalaari Capital, Nexus Venture Partners, Bessemer Venture Partners, Intel Capital and Saama Capital all participating.