b. If phospholipid molecules are surrounded by water, their hydrophobic fatty acid tails cluster and a bilayer results; hydrophilic heads are at the outer faces of a two-layer sheet. c. Bilayers of phospholipids are the structural foundation for all cell membranes. 2. The fluid portion of the cell membrane is made of phospholipids. a. A phospholipid molecule is composed of a hydrophilic head and two hydrophobic tails. b.
Confidence votes 45. Hydrophobic means water fearing tails and hydrophilic means water loving heads. First of all, these terms are involved when you are looking at the cell membrane. The structure of the cell membrane is called a phospholipid bilayer. The hydrophilic heads are on the outer part of the bilayer because they are water loving. Whereas the hydrophobic tails are on the inner part of the bilayer for two reasons. First, they are hydrophobic or water fearing so they will repel water. An example of hydrophobic is oil in wat
Hydrophobic means water fearing tails and hydrophilic means water loving heads First of all, these terms are involved when you are looking at the cell membrane. The structur … e of the cell membrane is called a phospholipid bilayer. Which means that the cell membrane is actually made to two layers and not one. The hydrophilic region in the cell is water-loving and it  attracts the water molecules. It is basically composed of polar  groups which readily dissolve and absorb water.
This is because they are two-faced molecules, with hydrophilic (water-loving) phosphate heads and hydrophobic (water-fearing) hydrocarbon tails of fatty acids. In water, these molecules spontaneously align — with their heads facing outward and their tails lining up in the bilayer's interior. (A) The plasma membrane of a cell is a bilayer of glycerophospholipid molecules. (B) A single glycerophospholipid molecule is composed of two major regions: a hydrophilic head (green) and hydrophobic tails (purple).
Phospholipids are the primary molecules found in the plasma membrane. A phospholipid is unique in that it has a hydrophilic region called the head, and a hydrophobic region known as the tail. The hydrophilic region can interact with water due to the presence of a phosphate group which is polar, like water. If something is hydrophilic, that means it likes water. The lipid bilayer is arranged in two layers of phospholipids, with the hydrophilic heads forming the outer edges and the tails forming the interior.
Figure 1: The lipid bilayer and the structure and composition of a glycerophospholipid molecule. (A) The plasma membrane of a cell is a bilayer of glycerophospholipid molecules. (B) A single glycerophospholipid molecule is composed of two major regions: a hydrophilic head (green) and hydrophobic tails (purple). (C) The subregions of a glycerophospholipid molecule; phosphatidylcholine is shown as an examp
In the cell membrane, hydrophilic heads orient to the inside and outside of the membrane, with the hydrophobic molecules inside. This gives the membrane its semi permeable fluid nature. The hydrophilic region in the cell is water-loving and it  attracts the water molecules. It is basically composed of polar  groups which readily dissolve and absorb water.
Phospholipids are a class of lipids that are a major component of all cell membranes. They can form lipid bilayers because of their amphiphilic characteristic. The structure of the phospholipid molecule generally consists of two hydrophobic fatty acid tails and a hydrophilic head consisting of a phosphate group. The two components are joined together by a glycerol molecule. The phosphate groups can be modified with simple organic molecules such as choline