Best Answer: You are safe to travel by plane from the beginning of your pregnancy all the way up until the end portion of your last trimester (usually 9th month - 36 weeks) and can manage what ever kind of trip(s) you want to do as long as you and your pregnancy are healthy and the pregnancy is progressing normally. Pregnancy past 32 weeks should be carefully considered for restriction from flight and must be accompanied with an authorization note from a doctor. Those past 36 weeks should be prohibited from flying unless personally accompanied by their doctor.
Whether by plane, train, automobile, or even boat, traveling while pregnant involves its own set of challenges and guidelines. But a little advance planning along with some common sense can make all the difference in the world -- anywhere in the world -- when it comes to pregnancy travel. 
When is the best time to travel during pregnancy? The best time to travel is probably the middle of your pregnancy—between weeks 14 and 28. Most common pregnancy emergencies usually happen in the first and third trimesters. After 28 weeks, it may be harder for you to move around or sit for a long time. 
Thank you! 9 out of 11 found this helpful. My doctor said that you should not travel after 32 weeks, however I have traveled up to about 4 hours of driving (being the driver) and few time during my last pregnancy. I'm on my 4th at 32weeks, and everything is okay. This should be a choice your doctor makes! My doctor is letting me travel at 38 weeks but it's with my physician husband to a doctor convention that's only a 2 hour drive away. Every woman is different and this is something only your doctor can tell you. Only they know all the in's and out's of your situation.
Traveling by Air During Pregnancy. Whether you are going by car, bus, or train, it is generally safe to travel while you are pregnant; however, there are some things to consider that could make your trip safer and more comfortable. 1  It is essential to buckle-up every time you ride in a car. Traveling by air is considered safe for women while they are pregnant; however, the following ideas might make your trip safer and more comfortable. 1  Most airlines allow pregnant women to travel through their eighth month.
Medical writer and editor. Yes, in your first and second trimesters. Although check with your doctor if you've had medical problems during your pregnancy, such as: You may find that your second trimester – weeks 14 to 27 – is the easiest time to travel. Morning sickness is behind you and your energy levels are higher. Flying during pregnancy can slightly increase your risk of thrombosis (blood clots) and varicose veins. Wearing support stockings (not tights, which increase your risk of developing thrush), when you fly will help keep your circulation flowing and relieve swollen veins.
Generally, the safest time to travel during pregnancy is the second trimester (13 to 28 weeks). At this time, you probably feel your best and you are in the least danger of having a miscarriage or premature labor. Avoid traveling any long distance during the last two or three weeks before your due date. 1 If you are in an accident, you should see a doctor to check you and make sure you and your baby are fine. 2  Adjust your seat as far from the dashboard or steering wheel as possible. 3  Motorcycle travel is not recommended during pregnancy.
1 Most airlines allow pregnant women to travel through their eighth month. 2  Traveling during the ninth month is usually allowed if there is permission from your health care provider. Traveling by air is considered safe for women while they are pregnant; however, the following ideas might make your trip safer and more comfortable. 1  Most airlines allow pregnant women to travel through their eighth month.