Chaplains are identified as Cmdr. John W. Smith, a chaplain, or USS Blue Water command chaplain, in the first reference and as Smith thereafter. When listing members of other services, precede the rank and name with the branch of service: Army Capt. Hawkeye Pierce. Use last name only on second reference. This applies to all military personnel, regardless of gender or rank. 
The names have been divided into three categories. The first 4 names are names for specific roles, such as 'Commander of the Watch' or 'Chief of Aid'. The next 3 names are 'real' military ranks, most of which are actually real and in use today by at least one military unit in the world, usually a major one. Some of the ranks aren't real, in terms of being used or having ever been used by a military, but they still fit very well within this category. Military rank name generator. This name generator will give you 10 random names for military ranks, both fictional and real. Many works of fiction either copy or slightly alter existing ranks from different countries and divisions.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Rank, first name, middle initial (if you or he prefer to include the middle name or initial at all), last name. Including USN for U.S. Navy, and the years he served, or perhaps the unit/ship he served with, might not be a bad touch. Ranks are titles, not degrees--they never go after the name. Only civilians who aren't aware of basic military protocol (such as the media, who misquote and mix up rank and names all the time) ever put the rank incorrectly after the name. Source(s): Army vet, OIF 1. 
Confusion. The primary reason the military uses last names when addressing each other is to avoid confusion. A company or squad may have several people with the same first name. For example, a common name like John or Michael may be the first name of several of the men. It is less likely that the troops will have the same last name, although it is possible.
NCO ranks typically include a varying number of grades of sergeant and corporal (air force, army and marines), or chief petty officer and petty officer (navy and coast guard). In many navies the term rate is used to designate specialty, while rank denotes paygrade. In the United Kingdom and most other Commonwealth air forces, air-officer ranks usually include air chief marshal, air marshal, air vice-marshal and air commodore. For some air forces, however, such as those of Canada, United States and many other air forces, general officer rank titles are used.
Military ranks are a system of hierarchical relationships in armed forces, police, intelligence agencies or other institutions organized along military lines. Usually, uniforms denote the bearer's rank by particular insignia affixed to the uniforms. In the United Kingdom and most other Commonwealth air forces, air-officer ranks usually include air chief marshal, air marshal, air vice-marshal and air commodore. For some air forces, however, such as those of Canada, United States and many other air forces, general officer rank titles are used.
Enlisted Aide Volunteer / Confidentiality Statement I, ________________________________, hereby volunteer to be considered for the Print (Rank, Last Name, First Name, Middle Initial) US Army Enlisted Aide Program. 
In the case of similar or identical last names, the first initial of the first name is used before the last name. For example, if their are two enlisted personnel, one with the name John Coleman and the other Michael Coleman, both men can not be called Coleman. One would be called J. Coleman and the other M. Coleman. A company or squad may have several people with the same first name. For example, a common name like John or Michael may be the first name of several of the men. It is less likely that the troops will have the same last name, although it is possible.
This is a list of words, terms, concepts, and slogans that have been or are used by the German military. Ranks and translations of nicknames for vehicles are included. Also included are some general terms from the German language found frequently in military jargon. 
Chaplains are identified as Cmdr. John W. Smith, a chaplain, or USS Blue Water command chaplain, in the first reference and as Smith thereafter. When listing members of other services, precede the rank and name with the branch of service: Army Capt. Hawkeye Pierce. Use last name only on second reference. This applies to all military personnel, regardless of gender or rank. John W. Smith, a Navy chaplain,' in the first reference and as 'chaplain' or by last name thereafter. chief (select) rate-use this term when referring to a Sailor who has been chosen for the rank of E-7. Example: Chief (select) Hospital Corpsman John Doe... Chief of Naval Operations-CNO is acceptable on first