[tɐjˈɡa] ; from Turkic) also known as boreal forest or snow forest, is a biome characterized by coniferous forests consisting mostly of pines, spruces and larches. The taiga is the world's largest terrestrial biome. Coniferous trees are the dominant plants of the taiga biome. A very few species in four main genera are found: the evergreen spruce, fir and pine, and the deciduous larch. In North America, one or two species of fir and one or two species of spruce are dominant.
The taiga is the terrestrial biome with the lowest annual average temperatures after the tundra and permanent ice caps. Extreme winter minimums in the northern taiga are typically lower than those of the tundra. Coniferous trees are the dominant plants of the taiga biome. A very few species in four main genera are found: the evergreen spruce, fir and pine, and the deciduous larch. In North America, one or two species of fir and one or two species of spruce are dominant.
A biome /ˈbaɪoʊm/ is a formation of plants and animals that have common characteristics due to similar climates and can be found over a range of continents. Biomes are defined by climate regimes and biogeography. A 1978 study on North American grasslands found a positive logistic correlation between evapotranspiration in mm/yr and above-ground net primary production in g/m 2 /yr.
Biomes are regions of the world with similar climate (weather, temperature) animals and plants. There are terrestrial biomes (land) and aquatic biomes, both freshwater and marine. Would you like to know what the weather is like in different biomes around the world? 
Terrestrial Biomes: Tropical forest Savanna Desert Extreme Desert Chaparral Grassland Deciduous forest Taiga Tundra Biomes are often named for their predominant vegetation, and all have certain characteristics such as microorganisms, fungi, and animals which have adapted to their particular environment. Terrestrial biome is a land biome such as rain forest, deciduous forests, tundra and such By the way, extra terrestrial is from outer space, like E.T. ;). Green Phoenix · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 0.
Terrestrial Biomes. Tundra-A terrestrial biome with low, shrubby or mat-like vegetation found at extremely high latitudes or elevations, near the limit of plant growth. Soils usually subject to permafrost. Plant diversity is typically low and the growing season is short. Temperate forest-Forests occuring at temperate latitudes (&gt;23.5 degrees N or S latitude). This terrestrial biome is characterized by moderate to large seasonal changes in temperature; rainfall, however, is usually more evenly distributed. Leaves of deciduous trees drop during autumn and winter.
Scrub forest-Scrub forests develop in areas that experience dry seasons. Tropical scrub forest-A terrestrial biome similar to tropical deciduous forest, but most trees are small, the dry season is prolonged, and many plant species bear thorns. Temperate forest-Forests occuring at temperate latitudes (&gt;23.5 degrees N or S latitude). This terrestrial biome is characterized by moderate to large seasonal changes in temperature; rainfall, however, is usually more evenly distributed. Leaves of deciduous trees drop during autumn and winter.
Tropical deciduous forest-A terrestrial biome similar to tropical rainforest and found at the same latitudes, but rainy and dry seasons are more distinct and the total amount of rainfall is usually less. Most trees are deciduous and drop their leaves during the dry season. Thorny vegetation is sometimes prominent. Temperate forest-Forests occuring at temperate latitudes (&gt;23.5 degrees N or S latitude). This terrestrial biome is characterized by moderate to large seasonal changes in temperature; rainfall, however, is usually more evenly distributed. Leaves of deciduous trees drop during autumn and winter.
Best Answer: Terrestrial Biomes Abiotic factors, such as climate, are important in determining where a particular biome is located. There are longtitudal patterns of climate over the Earth’s surface, and therefore, there are also longtitudal patterns of biome distribution over the Earth’s surface. Terrestrial biome is a land biome such as rain forest, deciduous forests, tundra and such By the way, extra terrestrial is from outer space, like E.T. ;). Green Phoenix · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 0.