Narbonne is linked to the nearby Canal du Midi and the Aude River by the Canal de la Robine, which runs through the centre of town. It was subsequently the capital of the Visigothic province of Septimania, the only territory from Gaul to fend off the Frankish thrust after the Battle of Vouille (507). For 40 years, from 719, Narbonne was part of the Emirate of Cordoba with a strong Gothic presence.
The province of Gallia Transalpina (Transalpine Gaul) was later renamed Gallia Narbonensis, after its newly established capital of Colonia Narbo Martius (Narbonne), a Roman colony founded on the coast in 118 BC. The Romans had called it Provincia Nostra (our province) or simply Provincia (the province). The name distinguished it from Cisalpine Gaul on the near side of the Alps to Rome. In 40 BC, during the Second Triumvirate, Lepidus was given responsibility for Narbonese Gaul (along with Hispania and Africa), while Mark Antony was given the balance of Gaul.
Narbonne, France, to Andorra. Narbonne, once a prosperous port, it is now located about 15 km from the shores of the Mediterranean Sea in southern France. Narbonne was established in Gaul in 118 BC, as Colonia Narbo Martius. It was located on the Via Domitia, the first Roman road in Gaul, built at the time of the foundation of the colony, and connecting Italy to Spain. 
Among the amenities of Narbonne, its rosemary-flower honey was famous among Romans. Later, the province of Transalpine Gaul was renamed Gallia Narbonensis after the city, which became its capital. Seat of a powerful administration, the city enjoyed economic and architectural expansion. It was subsequently the capital of the Visigothic province of Septimania, the only territory from Gaul to fend off the Frankish thrust after the Battle of Vouille (507). For 40 years, from 719, Narbonne was part of the Emirate of Cordoba with a strong Gothic presence.
La Clape region. The Bastide de Bringairet is located in Armissan, in the heart of the Massif de la Clape, between Narbonne and the Mediterranean Sea. The 200 years old Bastide de Bringairet is embedded in an idyllic park with 8000 qm. Here you can enjoy the wonderful landscape and the calmness. 
The city of Narbonne is a big french city located south of France. The city of Narbonne is located in the department of Aude of the french region Languedoc-Roussillon. The city of Narbonne is located in the district of Narbonne. The area code for Narbonne is 11262 (also known as code INSEE), and the Narbonne zip code is 11100. The altitude of the city hall of Narbonne is approximately 13 meters. The Narbonne surface is 172.96 km ²
Narbonne was established in Gaul in 118 BC, as Colonia Narbo Martius, colloquially Narbo. It was located on the Via Domitia, the first Roman road in Gaul, built at the time of the foundation of the colony, and connecting Italy to Spain. It was subsequently the capital of the Visigothic province of Septimania, the only territory from Gaul to fend off the Frankish thrust after the Battle of Vouille (507). For 40 years, from 719, Narbonne was part of the Emirate of Cordoba with a strong Gothic presence.
Narbonne was established in Gaul in 118 BC, as Colonia Narbo Martius. It was located on the Via Domitia, the first Roman road in Gaul, built at the time of the foundation of the colony, and connecting Italy to Spain. Narbonne is a commune in southern France in the Languedoc-Roussillon region. It lies 849 km (528 mi) from Paris in the Aude department, of which it is a sub-prefecture.
It was from the capital of Narbonne that Julius Caesar began his Gallic Wars. The area became a Roman province in 121 BCE, originally under the name of Gallia Transalpina (Transalpine Gaul). This name was chosen to distinguish it from Cisalpine Gaul, the part of Gaul on the near side of the Alps to Rome. Its boundaries were roughly defined by the Mediterranean Sea to the south and the C vennes and Alps and north and west. Names. The province of Gallia Transalpina (Transalpine Gaul) was later renamed Gallia Narbonensis, after its capital the Roman colony of Narbo Martius (Narbonne), founded on the coast in 118 BCE.