The name aioli comes from Provencal provençal 'alh' + garlic 'oli'. òli oil, aioli is, like mayonnaise an emulsion or a suspension of small globules of oil-and oil soluble compounds in water-and water. Soluble compounds egg yolk can be used as an emulsifier and is generally used in. making aioli It is usually served at room temperature. The name aioli comes from Provencal provençal 'alh' + garlic 'oli'. òli oil, aioli is, like mayonnaise an emulsion or a suspension of small globules of oil-and oil soluble compounds in water-and water.
The Oli (Hawaiian Chant) falls into two broad categories, mele oli and mele hula. Mele oli are chants delivered with no musical instruments and are generally performed by one individual. However, mele hula are chants accompanied by dance and or musical instruments and are often performed by a group.
[ syll. o-li, ol-i ] The baby boy name Oli is pronounced OW L IY †. Oli's language of origin is Germanic and it is predominantly used in the English language. Oli is a short form of Oliver (English and German). Oli is an infrequently used baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names. Baby names that sound like Oli include Ohel (Hebrew), Ola (Scandinavian), Olay (Scandinavian), Olo (Spanish), Oalo (Spanish), Oliwa (Hawaiian), Oluwa (African), and Ole (English, German, and Scandinavian).
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Oli in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Oli in Nautical Flags page. English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws.
Oli is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 3 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced O-li. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 10335 in baby name popularity for boys with 7 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name. English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws.
The Greek word Oli, means few''. The word oligarchy derives from the Greek for few ruling.. Oli Impan means holy infant.  If you have read the story, the two children were actually singing Silent Night but turns out, they don't know how to pronounce these words yet.
The beauty of the world of oli is that it is a very individualized effort. Each chanter has his or her own different voice quality and technique. Even the way a chant is chanted can differ depending on each individual’s past training and genealogy in chanting. It is said that chanting is a very lonely art. Since the beginning of time, every culture has developed means of passing on important information to its people. For Hawaiians, there was no written language per se until the 1820s. The missionaries introduced the alphabet which made it possible to represent Hawaiian language in the written form.
View the Oli Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Oli has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Oli to other names. Oli is a diminutive (nickname) of Oliver, Olivia, Olive. Coined by Shakespeare, the character Olivia appeared in his play Twelfth Night (1599). English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws.