1. On the remote host use “ ssh-keygen ” to create a private/public key pair. You can use an RSA or DSA token. Make sure you leave the passphrase empty/blank. 2. Next, append the user’s public key (created by the ssh-keygen tool) to the /etc/ssh/keys-root/authorized_keys file on the ESXi host. 1 Anybody with access to the root account on the remote host will have full root access to your ESXi host. 2  Root users allowed password free access to ESXi are not affected by password changes. 3  Root users allowed password free access to ESXi are not affected by lockdown mode.
Nice using ssh, you can also doing ssh from esxi do ln-s /sbin/dropbearmulti /bin/ssh. so i have some dificult to use the pub key of the esxi i have genetarted it with : regards. PKD says. I did this with ESX Server 3i 3.5.0 and I can connect via SSH, but I get access denied trying to login as root. If you are using SSH keys you will also need to place them in the same file in order for them to be re-applied on restart. If you want to know more about this, do a Google search for VMWare ESXi oem.tgz to find out how to construct such a file and its behavior.
Well that’s it, two simple methods for enabling SSH and/or ESXi Shell access to your VMware vSphere ESXi host. Both methods perform the same task though which one you use will no doubt be determined by your own preference or what ESXi interface you have access to at the time. Hope you found this basic post of use. To start the “ESXi Shell” and “SSH” services first click on the “Properties…” option. Once back at the “Security Profile” window you’ll now see that both the “SSH” and “ESXi Shell” services are now running. From the main “Security Profile” screen notice how the “SSH Server” has been allowed through the firewall
To enable SSH on VMware ESXi you need to enter an ‘unsupported’ mode. For background information on this mode and why the Service Console (SC) that you are probably familiar with from ESX (ie: non ESXi) is by default missing see my other article here. 
In the first post I wrote how you can enable SSH on the ESXi 5.0 host. In this post I show you how you can enable or activate SSH on the ESXi 5.0 hosts via the vSphere Client. 1  First start the vSphere Client. 2  Select the ESXi host in the configurations tab. 3  Select Security Profile.
SSH access is disabled by default on VMWare ESXi 5.x servers but sometimes it’s useful to use the command-line when you want to shrink VMDK files or quickly move virtual machines from one datastore to another. In this short tutorial I’ll show you how to enable SSH access on your ESXi server. Log into your ESXi server and go to the configuration tab. Now select the Security Profile and click on Properties in the upper right corner. Here you will see all the services that are available on your ESXi server.
For remote troubleshooting or other stuff, you can enable SSH on your VMware ESXi 5.5 host. You can do this on the VMware ESXi host itself or you can do this directly from the VMware vSphere Client. On the vSphere Client click on the configuration tab. Click on Security Profile. Select the SSH Service and click on Options. This will open up a new Windows where you can start the SSH service for your VMware ESXi 5.5 host and also set the startup properties for the service. Now you should be able to access your VMware vSphere ESXi host via SSH. If you have any problems to connect you should also check out the firewall of your ESXi server. If you want to enable SSH on directly on your VMware ESXi host check out the following post: Enable SSH on VMware ESXi 5.5
Here’s a quick post on how to enable SSH and the ESXi shell on VMware vSphere 5.1 and 5.x in easy steps, using two different methods. The first method is via the ESXi/vSphere Hypervisor console window and the second is using the vSphere Client interface. To start the “ESXi Shell” and “SSH” services first click on the “Properties…” option. Once back at the “Security Profile” window you’ll now see that both the “SSH” and “ESXi Shell” services are now running. From the main “Security Profile” screen notice how the “SSH Server” has been allowed through the firewall