Interphase is the stage of the cell cycle in which cells spend most of their time and perform their customary functions, including preparation for cell division. Mitosis. Meiosis. The interphase, or growth, period of the eukaryotic cell cycle (indicated by I in the figure at left below) alternates with mitosis (M in the figure). It's the time when the cell isn't undergoing division.
Answers. Best Answer: The duration of time spent in interphase and in each stage of interphase is variable and depends on both the type of cell and the species of organism it belongs to. Some human cells divide every 24 hours; in this case interphase takes about 22 hours.. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interphase. Some human cells divide every 24 hours; in this case interphase takes about 22 hours. Whatever the case, it takes up the majority of time in the cell cycle, because that's when the DNA replicates... etc.
Best Answer: The first answer listed is wrong. Interphase is when the cell grows and replicates it's organelles and DNA, while it carries on it's normal functions. It is a very active time for the cycle and the cell spends most of it's cycle in interphase in order to prepare for mitosis. Source(s): A & P I. nd721 · 9 years ago. 
The cell cycle is the complex sequence of events by which cells grow and divide. In eukaryotic cells, this process includes a series of four distinct phases. These phases consist of the Mitosis phase (M), Gap 1 phase (G 1), Synthesis phase (S), and Gap 2 phase (G 2) . The G 1, S, and G 2 phases of the cell cycle are collectively referred to as interphase. The dividing cell spends most of its time in interphase as it grows in preparation for cell division.
The cell cycle. Actively dividing eukaryote cells pass through a series of stages known collectively as the cell cycle: two gap phases (G1 and G2); an S (for synthesis) phase, in which the genetic material is duplicated; and an M phase, in which mitosis partitions the genetic material and the cell divides. 1  G1 phase. 
Usually, cells will take between 5 and 6 hours to complete S phase. G2 is shorter, lasting only 3 to 4 hours in most cells. In sum, then, interphase generally takes between 18 and 20 hours. Mitosis, during which the cell makes preparations for and completes cell division only takes about 2 hours. For higher-order species the length of the cell cycle determines how long it takes to replace damaged cells. The duration of the cell cycle varies from organism to organism and from cell to cell. Certain fly embryos sport cell cycles that last only 8 minutes per cycle!
An image of the nucleus of a cell (HT1080) currently in interphase (likely G1). Note: Cytoplasm of this cell or the neighboring cell is not visible (top-left), which is currently in the telophase of mitosis. 1 G2 (Gap 2), in which the cell resumes its growth in preparation for division. 2  In addition, some cells that do not divide often or ever, enter a stage called G0 (Gap zero), which is either a stage separate from interphase or an extended G1.
The duration of time spent in interphase and in each stage of interphase is variable and depends on both the type of cell and the species of organism it belongs to. Most cells of adult mammals spend about 20 hours in interphase; this accounts for about 90% of the total time involved in cell division. Interphase includes G1, S, and G2 phases. Mitosis and cytokinesis, however, are separate from interphase. 1 G2 (Gap 2), in which the cell resumes its growth in preparation for division. 2  In addition, some cells that do not divide often or ever, enter a stage called G0 (Gap zero), which is either a stage separate from interphase or an extended G1.
During this segment of the cell cycle, a cell doubles its cytoplasm and synthesizes DNA. It is estimated that a dividing cell spends about 90-95 percent of its time in this phase. Stages of Mitosis. In mitosis and cytokinesis, the contents of the dividing cell are equally distributed between two daughter cells. These phases consist of the Mitosis phase (M), Gap 1 phase (G 1), Synthesis phase (S), and Gap 2 phase (G 2) . The G 1, S, and G 2 phases of the cell cycle are collectively referred to as interphase. The dividing cell spends most of its time in interphase as it grows in preparation for cell division.
In cells with a nucleus, as in eukaryotes, the cell cycle can be divided into three periods: interphase, the mitotic (M) phase, and cytokinesis. During interphase, the cell grows, accumulating nutrients needed for mitosis, preparing it for cell division and duplicating its DNA. Schematic of the cell cycle. outer ring: I = Interphase, M = Mitosis; inner ring: M = Mitosis, G 1 = Gap 1, G 2 = Gap 2, S = Synthesis; not in ring: G 0 = Gap 0/Resting.