Long drive is a competitive sport where success is derived by hitting a golf ball the farthest by driving. A small but dedicated talent base of golfers populate the world of Long-Drive, with the top talent competing professionally in various events and exhibitions. Long drive clubs, which are always drivers, are different in many ways from consumer clubs. Until the recent club length limitation rules, the shafts were much longer than a normal 45 in (114.3 cm) shaft, sometimes exceeding 55 in (139.7 cm). In 2005, 50 in (127.0 cm) limitation was introduced (measured vertically)
The game of golf can be broken down into two elements: the long game and the short game. In the long game, power and distance are required so that the player's ball can approach the putting green in as few strokes as possible. In the short game, the skills needed are more finesse-related due to the need for accuracy. The Drive. The first shot taken on a hole is a long-game shot known as a drive. It is made with the ball elevated on a tee and is typically struck with a large-headed club called a driver. The goal is to hit the ball as far and as straight as possible in order to be in position for a fairway shot
Overview. When it comes to selecting a golf driver, the pertinent question is how to determine the driver you can hit for the longest distance. Professional golfers hit a driver 300 yards or more, but in a less experienced player’s hands the same driver probably will not produce those results. Club Shaft. In general, the longer the shaft on a driver, the more distance you will get on a tee shot. However, a golfer should be fitted for the proper shaft length. Your height and wrist-to-floor measurement can be used by golf retailers to determine if you are suited for standard-length drivers.
The loft of a long drive club is also much lower than a consumer club, sometimes around 4 or 5 degrees, as opposed to 10.5 degrees for an amateur's driver. The reason for lower lofted driver heads is to greatly reduce back spin. Long drive clubs, which are always drivers, are different in many ways from consumer clubs. Until the recent club length limitation rules, the shafts were much longer than a normal 45 in (114.3 cm) shaft, sometimes exceeding 55 in (139.7 cm). In 2005, 50 in (127.0 cm) limitation was introduced (measured vertically)
In 1975 George Bell of Australia shot a drive of 550 yards on the 577 yard 6th hole at St. Michaels in Sydney Australia. (He three putted for birdie) Because this was not in a PGA event, the record is not recognised. John Daly's best in competition is either 414 or 440 yards. Mike Dobbyn is the current World Long Drive Champion, with a distance of 551 yards. The longest drive recorded in a regulation golf match was a 515 yard drive shot by Mighty Mike Austin during the US National Seniors Open Championship on Sept. 25, 1974.
Golf is a club and ball sport in which players use various clubs to hit balls into a series of holes on a course in as few strokes as possible. Golf is one of the few ball games that do not require a standardised playing area. The game is played on a course with an arranged progression of either nine or 18 holes. Each hole on the course must contain a tee box to start from, and a putting green containing the actual hole. A golf course consists of either 9 or 18 holes, each with a teeing ground that is set off by two markers showing the bounds of the legal tee area, fairway, rough and other hazards, and the putting green surrounded by the fringe with the pin (normally a flagstick) and cup.
Years ago the top club makers made what were considered illegal golf drivers that performed better than the USGA allowed. They were simply advertised as non conforming golf drivers for non-sanctioned events and the difference was that the clubface was much thinner than a conforming driver. We are the inventors of a process known as golf driver shaving which reduces the face thickness on golf drivers to create more trampoline effect and distance. We can take any golf driver and make it hit 20-40 yards further.