This Site Might Help You. RE: What to do about rust on brake rotors? I just had new brake rotors and pads installed on the front and rear of my car. I noticed yesterday that the rear rotors are starting to show some rust on the outer edges. Since the rotors are less than 4 months old do I have a problem on my hands? The weather here has been pretty nasty,... show more I just had new brake rotors and pads installed on the front and rear of my car. I noticed yesterday that the rear rotors are starting to show some rust on the outer edges.
It is normal for brake rotors to rust and for brake pads to then remove the rust in the critical contact areas with the rotors as drivers brake their vehicles. Although rusty brake rotors are unlikely to cause a hazardous situation, having rust-proof rotors does possess a few benefits. The three options for brake rotors that do not rust are zinc-plated rotors, cadmium-plated rotors, and carbon composite rotors. Each has its own costs and benefits, so drivers should weigh these before deciding where to buy these rotors.
One solution to preventing rust on brake rotors and the problems that it causes is to find brake rotors that do not rust. This section outlines this process, including determining which brake rotors do not rust and locating rust-proof brake rotors. The three options for brake rotors that do not rust are zinc-plated rotors, cadmium-plated rotors, and carbon composite rotors. Each has its own costs and benefits, so drivers should weigh these before deciding where to buy these rotors.
When brake pads make contact with brake rotors, they do eventually clear the thin layer of rust on the contact areas so that they can continue to do their job. However, there are other deleterious effects of rusty brake rotors. The three options for brake rotors that do not rust are zinc-plated rotors, cadmium-plated rotors, and carbon composite rotors. Each has its own costs and benefits, so drivers should weigh these before deciding where to buy these rotors.
Besides being an aesthetic thing, rust really isn't a problem on brake rotors. On the braking surface itself, the worst rust could do is slightly modify the friction coefficient for a period of time before it was worn down. You won't notice it. Though, with general use, your brake pads will rub off the rust. Brake rotors are made of iron and rust really fast so the non-friction surfaces are basically impossible to keep rust free. But if you jack up the car and take off the wheel you can use some sand paper to remove rust on the non friction surface.
Surface rust and corrosive rust. Most of the rust on brake rotors is known as surface rust. Just like it sounds, imagine surface rust on brake rotors as a thin top layer of rust. This doesn't affect braking performance and most of it wipes off when you apply your brakes. On worn brake rotors, if you follow the rotor to the edge you can usually feel/see a noticeable lip. This lip is created as the brake pads normally don't contact all of the rotor surface and therefore leaves an outer lip when the rotors are worn down.
Causes for Rust on Brake Rotors. Rust develops on the rotors when they become wet and then sit for an extended period of time. It is easy and normal for rotors to get wet, as simply driving in the rain will cause this. It is also normal for a car to sit in a garage for a few days at a time. The three options for brake rotors that do not rust are zinc-plated rotors, cadmium-plated rotors, and carbon composite rotors. Each has its own costs and benefits, so drivers should weigh these before deciding where to buy these rotors.
Report Abuse. Rust on your brake rotors is fine as long as it's just surface rust. Take some fine grit sandpaper to the surface of the rotor fairly lightly and it should come off. Worst case scenario (and this wouldn't be a bad idea anyways) you take them down to NAPA or a machine shop and spend $15 each to have them turned. 
All of the rust on my front rotors were removed, after driving the car around for a little while, but my rear rotors still have some rust on them from the part that does not come in contact with the brake pads. I would really appreciate any advice. Brake rotors are made of iron and rust really fast so the non-friction surfaces are basically impossible to keep rust free. But if you jack up the car and take off the wheel you can use some sand paper to remove rust on the non friction surface.