To post something on someone else's Timeline: 1  Go to the person's Timeline and pick what type of story you want to share (ex: Post, Photo/Video). 2  Add any details you'd like. 3  You can also: 
Log in to your Facebook account with your email address and password. Step 2. Type the name of the friend whose wall you wish to post on in the search box located at the top of any page. Click the name of the Facebook member from the resulting drop-down list to view his Timeline. Related Reading: How to Post to Your Facebook Wall Without Sharing With Friends. Step 3. Click the “Write Post” option that appears near the top of the member’s Timeline. Step 2. Type your post in the “What’s On Your Mind” box that appears at the top of any page. Step 3. Include the name of the member whose wall you wish to write on, preceded by the “@” key. Select the friend from the resulting drop-down list. Click the “Post” button.
If you don't want something you're tagged in to appear on your Timeline, you'll need to remove the tag. When you remove a tag, the post will no longer appear on your Timeline. However, that post is still visible to the audience it's shared with other places on Facebook, such as in News Feed and search. Someone posted something I don’t want on my Timeline. If someone posts something you don't like on your Timeline, you can remove the post: 1  Go to your Timeline. 2  Hover over the story and click. 3  Select Delete... or Hide from Timeline from the dropdown menu
To post something on someone else's Timeline: 1  Go to the person's Timeline and pick what type of story you want to share (ex: Post, Photo/Video). 2  Add any details you'd like. 3  You can also: 
If member privacy settings allow, your posts can be seen, shared and liked by many Facebook members, creating a viral marketing effect. There are several ways to post on a member’s wall, and content can be in the form of text or images. You can post on someone’s Facebook wall in just a few clicks. Step 2. Type your post in the “What’s On Your Mind” box that appears at the top of any page. Step 3. Include the name of the member whose wall you wish to write on, preceded by the “@” key. Select the friend from the resulting drop-down list. Click the “Post” button.
Method 2 of 2: Sharing Something with Your Friends. 1. Find what you want to repost. You can repost virtually anything that is posted by someone else. Scroll through your feed to find the status, picture, link, or any other post that you want to share with others. If you want to maintain a post or picture's Likes and comments when you repost it, you'll need to comment on it. You can comment on someone's post or picture. 1  You can also use this method to repost an old post made by you or a friend.
Method 1 of 2: Reposting with Comments and Likes. 1. Find the content that you want to repost to your feed. If you want to maintain a post or picture's Likes and comments when you repost it, you'll need to comment on it. You can comment on someone's post or picture. 1  You can also use this method to repost an old post made by you or a friend.
Click the gear icon at the top right of the page. A dropdown list will appear. Click the Privacy Settings link. Click the Timeline and Tagging link in the left-hand column. You’ll be taken to a page where you can specify what should happen when someone posts something on your Timeline or tags you in a post. When you click on any section, it will expand showing you what your options are. And they will not even be able to see your public posts. Check Your Privacy Settings Regularly. I mentioned this yesterday, but privacy settings can be changed accidentally or you can change your mind about someone’s access at a later date.
Yesterday, I showed you how to manage the settings for posts you make. Today, I’m going to talk about what you can do to protect your privacy when someone else makes the post. In Facebook’s early days, if someone posted something on your Wall, all your friends could potentially see it before you did. And they will not even be able to see your public posts. Check Your Privacy Settings Regularly. I mentioned this yesterday, but privacy settings can be changed accidentally or you can change your mind about someone’s access at a later date.