In general, all states require a physical education teacher to hold a bachelor's degree from an accredited teacher education program and pass state licensing exams. Most states require one general exam followed by an exam that focuses on the particular specialty of the teacher. These four-year degree programs prepare students to become teachers for all grade levels. Courses may include kinesiology, exercise physiology, health teaching methods, aerobics, recreational sports and applied physical education.
A bachelor’s degree has become the standard for teachers throughout the US, regardless of the type of teaching specialty. Virtually all PE teachers hold a bachelor’s degree at minimum from a regionally accredited college or university. A bachelor’s degree related to physical education is a broad-scoped degree that prepares candidates for a number of PE, recreation, and health-related fields.
To work as a health and/or physical education teacher in a public school, you will need at least a bachelor's degree in education with an endorsement in health/physical education from an accredited teacher preparation program. 
How to become a middle school physical education teacher: educational requirements. Middle school teachers are expected to have at least a bachelor’s degree in physical education or a specialized discipline such as physiology, physical therapy, kinesiology or nutrition. 
Although each of the 50 states has different requirements for obtaining a teacher's license, most mandate the completion of a teacher education program, such as a bachelor's degree program in education and the passage of a state-administered exam. Every aspiring K-12 educator can enroll in a 4-year bachelor's degree program in education to become a teacher. Individuals who are interested in teaching in middle or secondary school typically also major in the subject that they wish to eventually teach, such as music, mathematics, history, biology or English
The minimum educational requirement to teach physical education to students ranging from kindergarten to the twelfth grade is a 4-year bachelor's degree. In addition to a bachelor's degree, gym teachers must also be licensed in the state they wish to teach. Bachelor's Degree. Graduating with a bachelor's degree in health and physical education from an accredited college or university is required to become a gym teacher. Some students choose to major in education and minor in physical education, while others choose to major in physical education and minor in education
Education. Before becoming a gym teacher, you must obtain a bachelor's degree, such as a Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science, with a major in education and a concentration or second major in physical education. Gym teachers, also called physical education teachers, provide students in kindergarten through 12th grade instruction in physical fitness, sports, and health. Requirements for becoming a gym teacher vary by state. This article discusses educational and professional requirements for becoming a gym teacher.
Those who have met all requirements to become a physical education teacher, including the completion of a bachelor’s degree program, teacher preparation program, and all necessary examinations, may apply for state licensure. Virtually all PE teachers hold a bachelor’s degree at minimum from a regionally accredited college or university. A bachelor’s degree related to physical education is a broad-scoped degree that prepares candidates for a number of PE, recreation, and health-related fields.