A neurologist is a doctor who specializes in the field of neurology (study of brain and related conditions), and treats various disorders that affect the nervous system. 
For the journal, see Neurology (journal) . For the scientific study of the nervous system, see Neuroscience. Neurology (from Greek: νεῦρον, neuron, and the suffix -λογία -logia study of) is a branch of medicine dealing with disorders of the nervous system. Lumbar punctures are frequently performed by neurologists. Some neurologists may develop an interest in particular subfields, such as stroke, dementia, movement disorders, neurointensive care, headaches, epilepsy, sleep disorders, chronic pain management, multiple sclerosis, or neuromuscular diseases.
A neurologist is a medical doctor or osteopath who has trained in the diagnosis and treatment of nervous system disorders, including diseases of the brain, spinal cord, nerves, and muscles. Some of the diseases and conditions treated by a neurologist are Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis (MS), various forms of dementia, sleep disorders, headaches, brain tumors, strokes, seizures, myasthenia gravis, and chronic pain.
A neurologist is a doctor who specializes in treating diseases of the nervous system. The nervous system comprises the central and peripheral nervous system. This complex system involves the spinal cord and the brain. You may also need to see a neurologist if you have symptoms of multiple sclerosis, such as tingling, loss of bowel control, or vision loss. According to the University of Rochester Medical Center, neurologists may also treat patients with: 1  seizure disorders, such as epilepsy.
A neurologist is a physician who is specializing in the diagnosis and treatment of disorders of the nervous system. After completing medical school a neurologist will complete 1 to 3 years of training in Internal Medicine (or pediatrics if he is to become a pediatric neurologist). A Dr. Nicholas D Suite, Neurology, answered on behalf of MDLIVE. A neurologist is a medical doctor who looks after patients with problems involving the brain, spinal cord, nerves, and muscles.
A neurologist is a specialist who treats diseases in the brain and spinal cord (the central nervous system), peripheral nerves (nerves connecting the brain and spine to the organs, like the lungs or liver), and muscles. To receive the best care, you should always first consult your primary care doctor, and they might recommend you see a neurologist, or they might not be able to provide a satisfying answer for your concerns. It is good to be aware then of what a neurologist does and the symptoms they treat.
Best Answer: If you suffer from certain diseases and conditions, seeing a neurologist may help you. A neurologist is a physician who specializes in the diagnosis and treatment of disorders of the central nervous system. The central nervous system consists of the brain, spinal cord, and all the nerves in your body. Some of the diseases and conditions treated by a neurologist are Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis (MS), various forms of dementia, sleep disorders, headaches, brain tumors, strokes, seizures, myasthenia gravis, and chronic pain.
Neurologists treat neurological conditions, or problems with the nervous system. Symptoms that commonly require a neurologist include: 1  coordination problems. 2  muscle weakness. 3  a decrease in sensation. You may also need to see a neurologist if you have symptoms of multiple sclerosis, such as tingling, loss of bowel control, or vision loss. According to the University of Rochester Medical Center, neurologists may also treat patients with: 1  seizure disorders, such as epilepsy.
A neurology doctor, or neurologist, is a healthcare professional who diagnoses and treats disorders affecting the brain, spinal cord, and nerves. He or she can specialize in one area or work more broadly, and can also be either a primary care provider or work in consultation with other healthcare providers. Neurologists can help treat a wide variety of conditions, including birth defects, like spinal bifida and medical conditions like strokes, epilepsy, Parkinson's disease, and Alzheimer's disease. He or she can also treat tumors on the brain and spinal cord, and trauma, like concussions and strokes.
A neurologist is a medical doctor who treats diseases of the nervous system. This includes disorders of the brain, spinal cord, nerves, and muscles. A Dr. Nicholas D Suite, Neurology, answered on behalf of MDLIVE. A neurologist is a medical doctor who looks after patients with problems involving