Answers. Best Answer: Scan it at the highest resolution you can get. If you scan it at 1200 dpi and then print it at 300 dpi, your result will be 4 times the original size. However, if the original picture isn't perfectly sharp, the enlargement will enlarge the blurriness as well as the image
Like woodchip I am not sure why you need to download another program. If enlarging a picture then it is essential to scan at a high resolution 600 and above. For printing you can open in Windows Photo Gallery and then select print and choose your paper size and scale to fit. This often possible through your printer properties too. 
Scanning a small photo at a larger DPI will produce a larger scanned image, allowing you to adjust and/or use the image in a variety of ways. Example: scanning a small photo at a larger DPI would allow you to have a printable version 8×10. Or you could re-size it (smaller) to use for other options. You didn’t say what size your photos are you want to scan, and that’s the best indicator of what DPI you want to scan with. For example, I might scan a wallet sized print at 1000dpi but an 8×10″ print between 300-600dpi.
Step Two: Enter 11 inches in the width field of the scan setup window destination or target section. You will see a corresponding height of 16.38 inches. If you were to enter 14 inches in the height field, the image width would only be about 9 inches, not large enough for your target photo enlargement. You can crop the photo enlargement to the exact print size later in Photoshop. Step Three: Check the scale or percentage field of the scan setup and you will see the dimensions you entered in the target size fields produce a 273% photo enlargement.
If you do it yourself, remember that scanned photos should be 72-100 dpi in their final size. This is about 250 kb of jpg file per square foot of final poster size. If, for example, you are scanning a 4x6 photo that will be 24x36 on your poster, scan at 432 to 600 dpi. Always use a delivery service that can track your photo if you are sending it to us. Please, do not mail them.
Place your document on the scanner and close the lid. Before you scan, look for the button that says Scan Settings.. Most scanners will have this feature in the user interface. Refer to the picture here, and look for a similar selection for your scanner. Select JPEG Image as the file type. Select a scan resolution setting of 600 ppi as shown here. (The higher the number, the more detailed your scan will be. The size of the file also increases with a higher setting, as does the time it will take to complete the scan.) Know that 600 ppi is an optimal setting for the average size photo print. Keep in mind that ppi stands for pixels per inch
Have scanned photos to Pictures, as some are small I want to enlarge them and then upload to my family tree. Scanner is epson sx210 all in one, and can see bits about marquee etc but it is all gobble de gook to me. As always any advise appreciated. 
YO. I have Windows 7 and a Brother Multi-Function Scanner/Copier/Photo/Fax machine. I have various photos that I want to scan and enlarge. They will be scanned to PDF. I heard that there is software called Microsoft Paint that I can use to enlarge the photos. 