1 If you quote only a single paragraph or part of one, do not indent the first line more than the rest. 2  A parenthetical reference for a prose quotation set off from the text follows the last line of the quotation. ( 3 94) One inch is equivalent to 10 spaces. 4  Introducing a Block Quotation.
To indicate short quotations (fewer than four typed lines of prose or three lines of verse) in your text, enclose the quotation within double quotation marks. Provide the author and specific page citation (in the case of verse, provide line numbers) in the text, and include a complete reference on the Works Cited page.
1 Do not use quotation marks at the beginning or end of the block quote—the indentation is what indicates that it’s a quote. 2  Place parenthetical citation according to your style guide (usually after the period following the last sentence of the quote). 3  Follow up a block quotation with your own words.
Understand how to use block quotes. Block quotes are multiple sentences quoted directly from a source which take up more than 4 lines in your paper. Because these take up a lot of physical space, they should be used sparingly with a maximum of 1-2 for a complete paper.
There may be times when you need to quote long passages. However, you should use block quotations only when you fear that omitting any words will destroy the integrity of the passage. If that passage exceeds four lines (some sources say five), then set it off as a block quotation.
For quotations that are more than four lines of prose or three lines of verse, place quotations in a free-standing block of text and omit quotation marks. Start the quotation on a new line, with the entire quote indented one inch from the left margin; maintain double-spacing.
Block quotes are used only If a quotation runs more than four lines in your paper (Gibaldi 110). 2. Always use a colon at the end of the signal phrase. 3. Quotation marks are not used to open/close block quotes. 4. Block quotes are indented 10 spaces from the left margin, but if a 10 space indentation makes the block quote match up with the paper s standard paragraph indentation then it is acceptable to indent the block quote an additional tab space.