Background. A glycogen storage disease (GSD) results from the absence of enzymes that ultimately convert glycogen compounds to glucose. Enzyme deficiency results in glycogen accumulation in tissues. In many cases, the defect has systemic consequences, but, in some cases, the defect is limited to specific tissues. Conversion generally is a one-way reaction from glycogen to glucose-1,6-phosphate. The enzyme is found in all tissues. Disease results from a pan-deficiency of the enzyme (GSD IIIa) or muscle-specific retention of glycogen debranching enzyme (GSD IIIb). The condition is autosomal recessive.
Forbes' disease. glycogen storage disease (type III), a condition in which deficiency of the debrancher enzyme dextrin-1,6-glucosidase affects the heart and liver, with hepatomegaly, hypoglycemia, acidosis, stunted growth, and a doll-like face. Called also Cori's disease and limit dextrinosis. (kor′kôr). ēz
Cori disease: Related Diseases. Cori disease: Cori disease is listed as a type of (or associated with) the following medical conditions in our database: 1  Muscle conditions. 2  Musculoskeletal conditions. 3  Genetic conditions. 4  Metabolic conditions. 5  Congenital conditions-metabolic disorders. 6  Congenital conditions. 
Description of Cori's disease. Cori's disease: A rare disease where a missing enzyme causes abnormal amounts of glycogen to be deposited in the liver, skeletal muscles and heart. Cori's disease: Related Topics. These medical condition or symptom topics may be relevant to medical information for Cori's disease: 1  Cori. 2  Cori disease. 3  Enzyme. 4  Abnormal. 5  Abnormal pain (6 causes). 6  Glycogen. 7  Liver. 8  Liver symptoms (1644 causes).
Glycogen storage disease type III (also known as GSDIII or Cori disease) is an inherited disorder caused by the buildup of a complex sugar called glycogen in the body's cells. 
Glycogen storage disease type III (GSD III)—also known as Cori disease or Forbes disease—is an inherited condition in which the deficiency of an enzyme called glycogen debranching enzyme results in various complications, notably involving the liver and muscles. A minority of people with the disease also have a mildly enlarged heart, though its function is usually normal. Low blood sugar and feelings of tiredness may occur with GSD III, although they are less common and less severe than with another form of GSD, type I.
Introduction to Cori Disease. Glycogen storage disease type III (GSDIII) is also known as Cori disease, Forbes disease and limit dextrinosis. GSDIII is inherited as an autosomal recessive disorder. 
Etymology: Carl F. Cori; Gerty T. Cori. a rare type of glycogen storage disease, in which the lack of an enzyme results in abnormally large deposits of glycogen in the liver, skeletal muscles, and heart. Signs are an enlarged liver, hypoglycemia, acidosis, and, occasionally, stunted growth. glycogen storage disease (type III), a condition in which deficiency of the debrancher enzyme dextrin-1,6-glucosidase affects the heart and liver, with hepatomegaly, hypoglycemia, acidosis, stunted growth, and a doll-like face. Called also Cori's disease and limit dextrinosis. (kor′kôr). ēz