Another Explanation: The President has term limits because Congress and the States ratified the Twenty-Second Amendment establishing a maximum of two terms in 1947. Prior to that, a President could serve as many times as he was elected. 
Section 1. No person shall be elected to the office of the President more than twice, and no person who has held the office of President, or acted as President, for more than two years of a term to which some other person was elected President shall be elected to the office of President more than once. Although nothing in the original Constitution limited presidential terms, the nation’s first president, George Washington, declined to run for a third term, suggesting that two terms of four years were enough for any president.
America's first president, George Washington, started the tradition of informal presidential term limits by refusing to run for a third term (originally he claimed he did not want to run in the first place, much less for a second term). The current Governor of California (Jerry Brown) is, however, serving a fourth term because his first two terms were before limits were passed in California, and the limits did not apply to individuals' prior terms.
Term Limit. American presidents are elected for four-year terms. While the 22nd Amendment limits presidents to two full terms in office, it also allows for them to serve two years at most of another president's term. That means the most any president can serve in the White House is 10 years. U.S. presidents are limited to serving only two full terms in the White House under the 22nd Amendment to the Constitution, which reads in part: No person shall be elected to the office of the President more than twice..
Roosevelt was the first president elected to a third term, and the only one to exceed eight years in office. While elected to twice as many terms as any other, his death in 1945 came early in his fourth term. The Twentieth Amendment shortened Roosevelt's first term by six weeks and limited his time in office to 12 years and 83 days, much less than the 16 years to which he was actually elected. Near the end of the 1944 campaign, Thomas Dewey announced support of an amendment that would limit future presidents to two terms.
The Twenty-second Amendment (Amendment XXII) of the United States Constitution sets a term limit for election and overall time of service to the office of President of the United States. Congress passed the amendment on March 21, 1947. It was ratified by the requisite 36 of the then-48 states on February 27, 1951. The Twentieth Amendment shortened Roosevelt's first term by six weeks and limited his time in office to 12 years and 83 days, much less than the 16 years to which he was actually elected. Near the end of the 1944 campaign, Thomas Dewey announced support of an amendment that would limit future presidents to two terms.
FDR was the first and only president to serve more than two terms. Passed by Congress in 1947, and ratified by the states on February 27, 1951, the Twenty-Second Amendment limits an elected president to two terms in office, a total of eight years. Although nothing in the original Constitution limited presidential terms, the nation’s first president, George Washington, declined to run for a third term, suggesting that two terms of four years were enough for any president.
Section 1. No person shall be elected to the office of the President more than twice, and no person who has held the office of President, or acted as President, for more than two years of a term to which some other person was elected President shall be elected to the office of the President more than once. The Twentieth Amendment shortened Roosevelt's first term by six weeks and limited his time in office to 12 years and 83 days, much less than the 16 years to which he was actually elected. Near the end of the 1944 campaign, Thomas Dewey announced support of an amendment that would limit future presidents to two terms.
Section 1. No person shall be elected to the office of the President more than twice, and no person who has held the office of President, or acted as President, for more than two years of a term to which some other person was elected President shall be elected to the office of President more than once. Although the Twenty-second Amendment was clearly a reaction to Franklin D. Roosevelt's service as President for an unprecedented four terms, the notion of presidential term limits has long-standing roots in American politics.
Before the ratification of the 22nd Amendment, Franklin Delano Roosevelt was elected to four terms in the White House in 1932, 1936, 1940 and 1944. Roosevelt died less than a year into his fourth term, but he is the only president to have served more than two terms. U.S. presidents are limited to serving only two full terms in the White House under the 22nd Amendment to the Constitution, which reads in part: No person shall be elected to the office of the President more than twice..