Noun. 1. central gyrus-either of two gyri on either side of the central sulcus. gyrus, convolution-a convex fold or elevation in the surface of the brain. precentral gyrus-the convolution of the frontal lobe that is bounded in back by the central sulcus and that contains the motor area. 
precentral gyrus. [-sen′trəl]. Etymology: L, prae + Gk, kentron, center, gyros, turn. a convolution of the cerebral hemisphere immediately anterior to the central sulcus of the cerebrum in each hemisphere. It is the location of the motor strip that controls voluntary movements of the contralateral side of the body. Also called anterior central gyrus. frontal gyrus any of the three (inferior, middle, and superior) gyri of the frontal lobe. fusiform gyrus one on the inferior surface of the hemisphere between the inferior temporal and parahippocampal gyri, consisting of a lateral (lateral occipitotemporal gyrus) and a medial (medial occipitotemporal gyrus) part.
precentral gyrus the convolution of the frontal lobe immediately in front of the central sulcus; the primary motor area of the cerebral cortex; called also anterior central gyrus. frontal gyrus any of the three (inferior, middle, and superior) gyri of the frontal lobe. fusiform gyrus one on the inferior surface of the hemisphere between the inferior temporal and parahippocampal gyri, consisting of a lateral (lateral occipitotemporal gyrus) and a medial (medial occipitotemporal gyrus) part.
Primary motor cortex (Brodmann area 4) of the left cerebral hemisphere shown in red. The primary motor cortex (Brodmann area 4) is a brain region that in humans is located in the dorsal portion of the frontal lobe. The lateral, convex side of the primary motor cortex is arranged from top to bottom in areas that correspond to the buttocks, torso, shoulder, elbow, wrist, fingers, thumb, eyelids, lips, and jaw. The arm and hand motor area is the largest, and occupies the part of precentral gyrus between the leg and face area.
The precentral gyrus (a.k.a. motor strip) is a prominent structure on the surface of the posterior frontal lobe. Lesions of the precentral gyrus result in paralysis of the contralateral side of the body (facial palsy, arm-/leg monoparesis, hemiparesis) - see upper motor neuron.
Noun. 1. precentral gyrus-the convolution of the frontal lobe that is bounded in back by the central sulcus and that contains the motor area. central gyrus-either of two gyri on either side of the central sulcus.
The precentral gyrus (PCG), also known as the motor strip or primary motor cortex, is the part of the brain’s neocortex responsible for executing voluntary movements. 
The precentral gyrus, which may also be called the primary motor area or, most commonly, the motor strip is immediately anterior to the central sulcus. It controls the voluntary movements of skeletal muscles; cell bodies of the pyramidal tract are found on this gyrus. 
• PRECENTRAL GYRUS (noun). The noun PRECENTRAL GYRUS has 1 sense: 1. the convolution of the frontal lobe that is bounded in back by the central sulcus and that contains the motor area. Familiarity information: PRECENTRAL GYRUS used as a noun is very rare. 
The precentral gyrus lies in front of the postcentral gyrus-mostly on the lateral (convex) side of the cerebral hemispheres-from which it is separated by the central sulcus. Its anterior border is represented by the precentral sulcus, while inferiorly it borders to the lateral fissure (Sylvian fissure). Lesions of the precentral gyrus result in paralysis of the contralateral side of the body (facial palsy, arm-/leg monoparesis, hemiparesis) - see upper motor neuron.