The mailboxes are available at UPS Stores around the United States. A UPS mailbox is ideal if you don't want to or can't receive postal mail at your home or business address. Obtaining a UPS mailbox is not difficult--you just need to provide two forms of identification and complete a simple application. The clerk may be able to contact the post office about having your mail sent to your UPS Store mailbox. Start using your UPS mailbox by contacting friends, family and any magazine subscription services and informing them of your new mailing address.
With a mailbox at The UPS Store, you get a real street address, not just a P.O. Box number. If you’re a business owner, having a real street address as your mailbox can provide you with a professional image for your business. We can receive packages from any carrier and hold them in a safe location. With The UPS Store mail forwarding service, you can get a mailbox with a real street address and secure 24-hour access* to mail and package deliveries. We can forward your mail to you, anywhere you are
With a mailbox at The UPS Store, you get a real street address, not a P.O. Box number. If you’re a business owner, having a real street address as your mailbox can provide you with a professional image for your business. With The UPS Store, you can be your own boss with the foundation of our brand, our training, and our systems. Our network has more than 30 years of franchising experience, with over 20 years here in Canada. We’ve learned what works through the years, and you can benefit from that knowledge.
Unlike with a PO box, since your mailbox at The UPS Store has a real street address you can have packages delivered to your mailbox from any carrier or courier. Only items being mailed via the US Postal Service can be delivered to PO boxes. When you have a mailbox at our store, the real street address allows us to accept deliveries for you
A mailbox that works for you. Discover the benefits of having a full service mailbox at The UPS Store #6260 in SAN FRANCISCO, CA: 1  A real street address, not a PO Box number: Providing a more professional image for your business. 2  See below for an example of your physical street address. Only items being mailed via the US Postal Service can be delivered to PO boxes. When you have a mailbox at our store, the real street address allows us to accept deliveries for you from any carrier or courier.
#1 is not really an option for most of us who are just working from home on the internet. The best thing you can do to get your business address is to rent a mailbox from a local UPS Store, or any other type of place that has mailboxes, except the Post Office. 
If you are a current mailbox holder, The UPS Store will receive and hold your packages for pick-up, subject to storage fees and other conditions (as applicable). If you are not a current mailbox holder, you can contact a The UPS Store location to inquire about receiving your shipment and any applicable fees. With The UPS Store, you can be your own boss with the foundation of our brand, our training, and our systems. Our network has more than 30 years of franchising experience, with over 20 years here in Canada. We’ve learned what works through the years, and you can benefit from that knowledge.
Summary (Consumer Alert!!): When you sign up with The UPS Store's Mailbox service there is NO WAY to do a change of address from them (a business) to a residential address as any Regular-Joe/Jane is accustomed too. 2. The UPS Store WILL NOT do a change of address for their consumers-They can however manual forward your mail, to an address you provide to them – this will cost you! Of course they do not tell you this when signing up for their mailbox service which leads me to the next point….
If you have a mobile business or work from home, a The UPS Store mailbox address gives you a professional storefront and makes it easier for your customers to stay in touch. Additional services include fax receiving and the ability to call in and check for new mail. We can receive packages from any carrier and hold them in a safe location. With The UPS Store mail forwarding service, you can get a mailbox with a real street address and secure 24-hour access* to mail and package deliveries. We can forward your mail to you, anywhere you are