1 Parallel to the plane of the horizon; at right angles to the vertical: a horizontal line. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  The child bends forward at the waist until the spine becomes parallel to the horizontal plane, while holding palms together with arms extended. 
The term verticals in business refers to a vertical market. Basically, a vertical market is one where businesses and marketers cater to the needs of a specific group of people within an industry. 
inclined-at an angle to the horizontal or vertical position; an inclined plane. vertical, perpendicular-at right angles to the plane of the horizon or a base line; a vertical camera angle; the monument consists of two vertical pillars supporting a horizontal slab; measure the perpendicular height. horizontal. adj. 1. parallel to the plane of the horizon; level; flat. Compare vertical 1. 2. of or relating to the horizon.
Synonym Discussion of VERTICAL. vertical, perpendicular, plumb mean being at right angles to a base line. vertical suggests a line or direction rising straight upward toward a zenith. perpendicular may stress the straightness of a line making a right angle with any other line, not necessarily a horizontal one. 
1. Of, relating to, or near the horizon. 2. a. Parallel to or in the plane of the horizon. b. At right angles to a vertical line. 3. Occupying or restricted to the same level in a hierarchy: a horizontal study of verbal ability; a horizontal transfer by an employee. horizontal. adj. 1. parallel to the plane of the horizon; level; flat. Compare vertical 1. 2. of or relating to
Best Answer: Horizontal and vertical are simply directions relative to some reference frame. Typically the reference frame in HS and early college physics is Earth's surface. In which case horizontal means parallel to Earth's surface and vertical means perpendicular to Earth's surface. In advanced math and physics, the terms horizontal and vertical will be replaced by unit vectors i, j, and k; where i dot i = 1 etc. And Ay = A, which means the A vector is pointing straight up the vertical axis. In this case, there is no Ax component. In higher trig you will learn about transformations where we rotate the axes some degrees with the result sometimes of simplifying an otherwise difficult problem.
Adj. 1. vertical-at right angles to the plane of the horizon or a base line; a vertical camera angle; the monument consists of two vertical pillars supporting a horizontal slab; measure the perpendicular height. perpendicular. These adjectives mean being at or approximately at right angles to the horizon or to level ground. Vertical and upright are often used to signify contrast with what is horizontal: wallpaper with vertical stripes; an upright column.
Synonyms: vertical, upright, perpendicular, plumb. These adjectives mean being at or approximately at right angles to the horizon or to level ground. Vertical and upright are often used to signify contrast with what is horizontal: wallpaper with vertical stripes; an upright column.
vertical. adj. 1. at right angles to the horizon; perpendicular; upright Compare horizontal 1: a vertical wall. 2. extending in a perpendicular direction. 3. at or in the vertex or zenith; directly overhead. These adjectives mean being at or approximately at right angles to the horizon or to level ground. Vertical and upright are often used to signify contrast with what is horizontal: wallpaper with vertical stripes; an upright column.
Horizontal means going left and right. This is the opposite of vertical, which means going up and down. Example: This sentence is written horizontally. It might help to know that the horizon is the farthest limit of the earth that can be seen from a given point. However Vertical is perpendicular to horizontal. Horizontal (left to right or the x axis on a grid) Ve … rtical (up to down or the y axis on a grid) The opposite of left to right is right to left. the opposite of y is-y. 8 people found this useful.