Although the acronym PTK is sometimes used informally, it is heavily discouraged by the society and is not permitted for official business. The only notable exception is the use of PTK in URLs, such as the official international website, ptk.org, and similar regional and chapter websites. To qualify for initial Phi Theta Kappa membership, a student must maintain a GPA of, in most cases, 3.5 or higher. They must also pay a one-time international membership fee, plus any chapter or regional dues that may apply.
1 If calcium levels are high and PTH levels are high, then the parathyroid glands are producing inappropriately high amounts of PTH. 2  A health practitioner may order X-rays or other imaging studies to help determine the cause and evaluate the severity of hyperparathyroidism. It is used to help diagnose the cause of a low or high calcium level and to help distinguish between parathyroid-related and non-parathyroid-related causes.
A: The .PK is an example of a suffix representing where the security is traded-an over-the-counter (OTC) network or an international exchange. The major U.S. exchanges such as the NYSE, Nasdaq and AMEX do not have suffixes. The .PK behind a stock simply means the stock in question is traded on the pink sheets (or the Pink Sheets Electronic Quotation service). OTC Markets. The pink sheets service is a loosely regulated over-the-counter, decentralized market.
Phi Theta Kappa has a name similar to, and is heavily based on, Phi Beta Kappa, which is an international honor society for universities and traditional four-year colleges. To qualify for initial Phi Theta Kappa membership, a student must maintain a GPA of, in most cases, 3.5 or higher. They must also pay a one-time international membership fee, plus any chapter or regional dues that may apply.
Photo Therapeutic Keratectomy-PTK Laser eye surgery. PTK is a surgical procedure which is mainly used to treat scars on the cornea and any other type of corneal surface disease. These include corneal dystrophy and epithelial erosion syndrome. The aim of this procedure is to treat surface level corneal disease and NOT to remove the need to wear glasses or contact lenses. However, this treatment can be combined with PRK which means that it has both a medical and cosmetic application.
The so-called intact PTH is the most frequently ordered parathyroid hormone test. It is used to help diagnose the cause of a low or high calcium level and to help distinguish between parathyroid-related and non-parathyroid-related causes.
Filter by: Select category from list... ────────── All Societies (2) Students (1) Occupation & Positions (1) Educational (1) General (2) Software (3) Telecom (1) FDA (1) Human Genome (1) Physiology (1) NFL Teams (1) Unclassified (5) Airport Codes (1) Sort by:PopularityAlphabeticallyCategory. 
PRK (photorefractive keratectomy) is a type of refractive surgery to correct myopia (nearsightedness), hyperopia (farsightedness) and astigmatism. PRK was the first type of laser eye surgery for vision correction and is the predecessor to the popular LASIK procedure. Though PRK recovery takes a bit longer than recovery from LASIK eye surgery, PRK is still commonly performed and offers advantages over LASIK for some patients. The main difference between PRK and LASIK is that in LASIK surgery a thin, hinged flap is created on the cornea to access the treatment area, whereas in PRK the cornea's entire epithelial (outer) layer is removed to expose the area and no flap is created.
PTK stands for Photo-Therapeutic Keratectomy: this surgery uses a laser to treat eyesight problems, which are mainly diseases of the surface of the cornea. The aim of this procedure is to treat surface level corneal disease and NOT to remove the need to wear glasses or contact lenses. However, this treatment can be combined with PRK which means that it has both a medical and cosmetic application.
Members of Phi Theta Kappa are known as Phi Theta Kappans; any other form of reference, such as Kappans or Phi Thetans, is deemed an incorrect usage by the organization. To qualify for initial Phi Theta Kappa membership, a student must maintain a GPA of, in most cases, 3.5 or higher. They must also pay a one-time international membership fee, plus any chapter or regional dues that may apply.