This circuit has a power source, a complete path for electrons to flow, and a resistor as the load. An electric circuit is a path in which electrons from a voltage or current source flow. Electric current flows in a closed path called an electric circuit. The point where those electrons enter an electrical circuit is called the source of electrons. The point where the electrons leave an electrical circuit is called the return or earth ground. The part of an electrical circuit that is between the electrons' starting point and the point where they return to the source is called an electrical circuit's load.
An electrical circuit is any closed loop that allows a flow of electrons in a current to deliver energy or perform work and then return to their source. Material along which electrical current flows freely are called conductors. (e.g. copper-wire) The electrons emit and return to an energy supply. The minimum components that are needed for an electrical circuit to do useful work are:- A battery(or an electricity source), conducting wire from which electricity can flow … , and a resistror(which is anything like lamp, bulb,ceiling fan etc.) !! 5 people found this useful.
A transformer is an electrical device that takes electricity of one voltage and changes it into another voltage. You'll see transformers at the top of utility poles and even changing the voltage in a toy train set. Basically, a transformer changes electricity from high to low voltage using two properties of electricity. In an electric circuit, there is magnetism around it.
In all of these cases, you are completing an electric circuit, allowing a current, or flow of electrons, through the wires. An electric circuit is in many ways similar to your circulatory system. Your blood vessels, arteries, veins and capillaries are like the wires in a circuit. The blood vessels carry the flow of blood through your body. The wires in a circuit carry the electric current to various parts of an electrical or electronic system. Your heart is the pump that drives the blood circulation in the body. It provides the force or pressure for blood to circulate
Many circuits have a switch so that they can be turned on and off. When the switch is off, it makes a gap in the circuit and the electrons are not able to flow around. When the switch is turned on, it closes the gap and the electricity is able to move and make the device work. A battery or other power source gives the force (voltage) that makes the electrons move. When the electrons get to a device like a light bulb, your computer, or a refrigerator, they give it the power to make it work.
Parallel Circuits. In a parallel circuit, the voltage across each of the components is the same, and the total current is the sum of the currents through each component. If two or more components are connected in parallel they have the same potential difference (voltage) across their ends. A simple electrical circuit. Once one of the wires is removed from the power source or a “break” is made in the flow, the circuit is now “open” and the lamp will no longer light. In practical application, circuits are “opened” by such devices as switches, fuses, and circuit breakers.
A battery or generator produces voltage -- the force that drives current through the circuit. Take the simple case of an electric light. Two wires connect to the light. For electrons to do their job in producing light, there must be a complete circuit so they can flow through the light bulb and then back out. The blood vessels carry the flow of blood through your body. The wires in a circuit carry the electric current to various parts of an electrical or electronic system. Your heart is the pump that drives the blood circulation in the body. It provides the force or pressure for blood to circulate
Print. An electric circuit is like a pathway made of wires that electrons can flow through. A battery or other power source gives the force (voltage) that makes the electrons move. When the electrons get to a device like a light bulb, your computer, or a refrigerator, they give it the power to make it work. The word “circuit” sounds like “circle,” and a circuit needs to be circular to work