6. PROCEDURES a. DoD LEAs may collect PII and other information in the course of law enforcement functions, to include investigations, where that information logically relates to the detection, neutralization, or deterrence of criminal activity that affects DoD personnel, property, or mission. A group of records under the control of a DoD Component from which personal information about an individual is retrieved by the name of the individual, or by some other identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned, that is unique to the individual. valid DoD law enforcement purpose.
Personally identifiable information (PII), or Sensitive Personal Information (SPI), as used in US privacy law and information security, is information that can be used on its own or with other information to identify, contact, or locate a single person, or to identify an individual in context. However, PII is a legal concept, not a technical concept. Because of the versatility and power of modern re-identification algorithms, the absence of PII data does not mean that the remaining data does not identify individuals.
Before collecting or maintaining Sensitive PII, be sure that: (1) you have the authority to do so; (2) the data collection is consistent with the terms of a Privacy Act System of Records Notice (SORN); and (3) your database or information-technology system has an approved Privacy Impact Assessment. 
According to the Department of Defense (DoD), a breach of personal information occurs when the information is lost, disclosed to, accessed by, or potentially exposed to unauthorized individuals, or compromised in a way where the subjects of the information are negatively affected. 1  Full DoD breach definition. 
The EDIPI/DoD ID by itself or with name is considered PII. However, it is considered internal government ops related PII (like work phone #, job title) and low risk. No breach if lost, stolen or compromised. The DoD ID shall only be used for DoD business purposes. 
Personally Identifiable Information (PII). The term “PII,” as defined in OMB Memorandum M-07-1616 refers to information that can be used to distinguish or trace an individual’s identity, either alone or when combined with other personal or identifying information that is linked or linkable to a specific individual. Personally Identifiable Information (PII), privacy act, rules, guidelines, policies, best practices at GSA.
It also attempts to explain what PII elements are considered sensitive and non-sensitive and the roll these categories play when reporting a loss or compromise of PII (i.e., a breach) or determining when a Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA) is required for an information technology system. Information about an individual that identifies, links, relates, or is unique to, or describes him or her, e.g., a social security number; age; military rank; civilian grade; marital status; race; salary; home phone numbers; other demographic, biometric, personnel, medical, and financial information, etc.
Rules and Policies-Protecting PII-Privacy Act. Note: The information on this page is intended to inform the public of GSA's privacy policies and practices as they apply to GSA employees, contractors, and clients. Personally Identifiable Information (PII), privacy act, rules, guidelines, policies, best practices at GSA.
Potential PII. The use of social security numbers and other personally identifiable information (PII) is forbidden in web based courseware. With the rise of personal identity theft, we must be especially sensitive to the use of any information in the text or graphics that could jeopardize personal information. Information about an individual that identifies, links, relates, or is unique to, or describes him or her, e.g., a social security number; age; military rank; civilian grade; marital status; race; salary; home/office phone numbers; other demographic, biometric, personnel, medical, and financial information, etc.
Personally identifiable information (PII) includes information that can be used to distinguish or trace an individual’s identity either directly or indirectly through linkages with other information. 