Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: helix (Noun). A curve on the surface of a cylinder or cone such that its angle to a plane perpendicular to the axis is constant; the three-dimensional curve seen in a screw or a spiral staircase. helix (Noun). A small volute under the abacus of a Corinthian capital. 
A filled-in helix – for example, a spiral ramp – is called a helicoid. Helices are important in biology, as the DNA molecule is formed as two intertwined helices, and many proteins have helical substructures, known as alpha helices. The word helix comes from the Greek word ἕλιξ, twisted, curved. A double helix consists of two (typically congruent) helices with the same axis, differing by a translation along the axis. A conic helix may be defined as a spiral on a conic surface, with the distance to the apex an exponential function of the angle indicating direction from the axis.
Definition of HELICAL. : of, relating to, or having the form of a helix; broadly: spiral 1a. — he·li·cal·ly \-k(ə-)lē\ adverb. ADVERTISEMENT
he·lix. 1. A three-dimensional spiral curve. In mathematical terms, a helix can be described as a curve turning about an axis on the surface of a cylinder or cone while rising at a constant upward angle from a base. (hē′lĭks). helix. in a right circular cylinder. n. pl. he·lix·es or hel·i·ces (hĕl′ĭ-sēz′, hē′lĭ-).
double helix (Watson-Crick helix) the structure of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), consisting of two coiled chains, each of which contains information completely specifying the other chain. helix. 1. spiral (2). 2. the superior and posterior free margin of the pinna of the ear. α-helix, alpha helix the structural arrangement of parts of protein molecules in which a single polypeptide chain forms a right-handed helix stabilized by intrachain hydrogen bonds.
A helix (pl: helixes or helices) is a type of smooth space curve, i.e. a curve in three-dimensional space. It has the property that the tangent line at any point makes a constant angle with a fixed line called the axis. Examples of helices are coil springs and the handrails of spiral staircases. A double helix consists of two (typically congruent) helices with the same axis, differing by a translation along the axis. A conic helix may be defined as a spiral on a conic surface, with the distance to the apex an exponential function of the angle indicating direction from the axis.
The alpha helix (α-helix) is a common secondary structure of proteins and is a righthand-coiled or spiral conformation (helix) in which every backbone N-H group donates a hydrogen bond to the backbone C=O group of the amino acid four residues earlier (hydrogen bonding). Since the α-helix is defined by its hydrogen bonds and backbone conformation, the most detailed experimental evidence for α-helical structure comes from atomic-resolution X-ray crystallography such as the example shown at right.
double helix, Watson-Crick helix a representation of the structure of DNA, consisting of two coiled chains arranged antiparallel to each other, each containing information completely specifying the other chain. helix. 1. spiral (2). 2. the superior and posterior free margin of the pinna of the ear. α-helix, alpha helix the structural arrangement of parts of protein molecules in which a single polypeptide chain forms a right-handed helix stabilized by intrachain hydrogen bonds.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a helix is a spiral, or something shaped like a spiral. An example of a helix is the shape inside the shell of a chambered nautilus sea creature. helix. pl. he′lixes or hel′i·ces·. 1  any spiral, as one lying in a single plane or, esp., one moving around a right circular cone or cylinder at a constant angle, as a screw or bolt thread does. 2  Anat. the folded rim of cartilage around the outer ear.
(plural helixes or helices). ( 1 mathematics) A curve on the surface of a cylinder or cone such that its angle to a plane perpendicular to the axis is constant; the three-dimensional curve seen in a screw or a spiral staircase. helix. pl. he′lixes or hel′i·ces·. 1  any spiral, as one lying in a single plane or, esp., one moving around a right circular cone or cylinder at a constant angle, as a screw or bolt thread does. 2  Anat. the folded rim of cartilage around the outer ear.