Urinary Casts: Hyaline Casts Hyaline cast and red blood cells. Urinary Casts: Hyaline Casts •Can be seen in even the mildest kind of renal disease. •A few hyaline casts may be found in the normal urine.•Frequently present •following physical exercise•physiologic dehydration Urinary Casts: Hyaline Casts. 
1 (Hyaline cast) Urinary casts are cylindrical structures produced by the kidney and present in the urine in certain disease states. 2  They form in the distal convoluted tubule and collecting ducts of nephrons, then dislodge and pass into the urine, where they can be detected by microscopy. hyaline casts. ( 1 Hyaline cast) Urinary casts are cylindrical structures produced by the kidney and present in the urine in certain disease states. 2  these casts are made of the protein itself.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Ronnadonna. Confidence votes 336. Hyaline casts are not specific to kidney pathology and are often found in urinalysis post-exercise. However, in the presence of other signs and symptoms, they may be a clue that something is wrong with the kidney. 
Hyaline Casts. Hyaline casts are the type most commonly seen in the urine sediment. A few hyaline casts may occasionally be found in normal urine, and hyaline casts may be seen after strenuous exercise, during fever, or when undergoing diuretic therapy. Pathologically, hyaline casts may be seen with congestive heart failure, and may be seen together with other types of casts in a variety of renal diseases. Hyaline casts have a refractive index similar to the urine in which they are suspended.
Hyaline casts are formed in the absence of cells in the tubular lumen. They have a smooth texture and a refractive index very close to that of the surrounding fluid. Reduced lighting is essential to see hyaline casts. 
hyaline casts. ( 1 Hyaline cast) Urinary casts are cylindrical structures produced by the kidney and present in the urine in certain disease states. 2  They form in the distal convoluted tubule and collecting ducts of nephrons, then dislodge and pass into the urine, where they can be detected by microscopy. hyaline casts. ( 1 Hyaline cast) Urinary casts are cylindrical structures produced by the kidney and present in the urine in certain disease states. 2  these casts are made of the protein itself.