gravure. n. 1. (Printing, Lithography & Bookbinding) a method of intaglio printing using a plate with many small etched recesses. See also rotogravure. 2. (Printing, Lithography & Bookbinding) See photogravure. 
See: publication, script. PRINTING. The art of impressing letters; the art of making books or papers by impressing legible characters. 2. The right to print is guaranteed by law, and the abuse of the right renders the guilty person liable to punishment.
See: publication, script. PRINTING. The art of impressing letters; the art of making books or papers by impressing legible characters. 2. The right to print is guaranteed by law, and the abuse of the right renders the guilty person liable to punishment. See Libel,; Liberty of the Press; Press.
rotogravure. noun. 1  An intaglio printing process in which letters and pictures are transferred from an etched copper cylinder to a web of paper, plastic, or similar material in a rotary press. 2  Printed material, such as a newspaper section, produced by this process.
Definition. Printing process in which ink is retained in the recessed areas of the printing plate (which is wetted and wiped before every impression) before being transferred to paper or other printing surface. Gravure printing is an intaglio process. intaglio process
gravure printing. (graphic arts). A process that prints from sunken or depressed surfaces or cups on a plate, in contrast to the raised printing surfaces of letterpress; the depth (and the area) of the depressed areas varies, thus yielding more or less ink on the paper. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter. 
gravure. n. 1. (Printing, Lithography & Bookbinding) a method of intaglio printing using a plate with many small etched recesses. See also rotogravure. 2. (Printing, Lithography & Bookbinding) See photogravure. 
Online Language Dictionaries. English definition English thesaurus English-Spanish English-French English-Italian Spanish-English French-English Italian-English Espanol-Español Francais-Français Francais-Français Espanol-Español Espanol: español Portugues: português Portugues: português espanol... español espanol español definicion definición espanol español sinonimos sinónimos catala català definicio definició more 
Descriptions and Illustrations of the Gravure Process. 1  PNEAC: Gravure Printing. 2  Has a simplified illustration of the process using cylinders (rotogravure), ink pans, and rollers. 3  Photogravure. 4  A form of gravure printing that uses etched copper engraving plates. 5  Rotogravure Printing Machines. 6  Browse photos and descriptions of different types of ... Descriptions and Illustrations of the Gravure Process. 1  PNEAC: Gravure Printing. 2  Has a simplified illustration of the process using cylinders (rotogravure), ink pans, and rollers. 3  It also explains the gravure process.