A bonded title, also known as a Certificate of Title Surety, is a document that proves a person's ownership of a motor vehicle. It can be used in place of a standard vehicle title in order to register a car with the Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV), buy insurance for the car, or sell the car. 
Note that if a vehicle's title has been branded, it is an official designation made by a state agency and should appear on the vehicle's title paperwork. Neither individuals nor private companies can brand titles. While title brands vary by state, some of the most common ones include: 1  Salvage. 2  Junk. 
1 Some states will specifically call out flood damage on a car's title, but other states merely use the term salvage title.. 2  Hail damage: As with flood cars, the titles of vehicles that are damaged by hail can also get a salvage title if the state does not have a specific hail damage designation on the document. 1 Some states will then issue a salvage title for the car. 2  According to Carfax, a company that sells vehicle history reports, the following states issue a salvage title after a car has been stolen: Arizona, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Maryland, Minnesota, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, Oklahoma and Oregon.
Vehicle title branding is the use of a permanent designation on a vehicle's title, registration or permit documents to indicate that a vehicle has been written off due to collision, fire or flood damage or has been sold for scrap. The diminished sale value of a title branded vehicle reduces the profitability of switching the registration and VIN from an accident vehicle to that of a stolen vehicle of the same make and model/year, in an attempt to register it as a rebuilt car and sell it.
People often get confused about the difference between a car title and a car registration. A car title deals with the ownership aspect of your car and tells the state who the owner is and what liens are on the vehicle, just like a warranty deed or mortgage filing with your county for your home. Then when you pay off the loan on your car, the lender has your title printed and you get it in the mail usually about a week later, signed or stamped to indicate the lien is satisfied. There are 2 examples below of vehicle titles where the loan was paid off.
When the state does issue the title, it's branded, and notes that the car has been salvaged or rebuilt so future owners are aware of its past. Different Kinds of Damage. A car with a salvage title hasn't always been in a collision, however. 1 Some states will then issue a salvage title for the car. 2  According to Carfax, a company that sells vehicle history reports, the following states issue a salvage title after a car has been stolen: Arizona, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Maryland, Minnesota, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, Oklahoma and Oregon.
What does TO DEFECTIVE mean?A Wisconsin brand that is placed on a vehicle title for a vehicle that was first issued a Wisconsin title prior to May 1, 1989, before implementation of Wisconsin’s salvage vehicle law; Wisconsin’s salvage law became effective on June 1, 1994. What does BOND POSTED mean?A Wisconsin brand placed on a vehicle title when a proper ownership document was not submitted as part of the application, and a surety bond was filed prior to a Wisconsin title being issued. A surety bond is held for a period of five years before being released.
What does REPLICA mean?A Wisconsin brand that is placed on a vehicle title for a vehicle that is a reproduction of another vehicle originally made by another manufacturer and consisting of a reproduction body and new, used or reproduction chassis and drive trains. What does BOND POSTED mean?A Wisconsin brand placed on a vehicle title when a proper ownership document was not submitted as part of the application, and a surety bond was filed prior to a Wisconsin title being issued. A surety bond is held for a period of five years before being released.
In the United Kingdom, there is not an equivalent of a vehicle title. Instead, there is a document known as the 'vehicle registration document', and is issued by the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency (DVLA). The current version has the reference number V5C. vehicle titles are also used for car title loans, where a lender will loan the car's owner money in return for keeping the car title until the debt is paid off. Car title loans are marked by high interest rates, a short time to repay the loan, and the loan amount is usually less than the car's monetary worth.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In the United States the certificate of title for a vehicle (also known as a car title or pink slip; or pinks in the plural) is a legal form, establishing a person or business as the legal owner of a vehicle. Vehicle titles in the U.S. are commonly issued by the state DMV. The certificate of title normally specifies: vehicle titles are also used for car title loans, where a lender will loan the car's owner money in return for keeping the car title until the debt is paid off. Car title loans are marked by high interest rates, a short time to repay the loan, and the loan amount is usually less than the car's monetary worth.