International Travel. All children must present a valid U.S. passport for international air travel. This rule applies regardless of age, including infants and newborns. If you are applying for a passport for your child for the first time, allow ample time for the passport application process. Passport Application: Minors Ages 16 and 17. Minors age 16 or 17 must appear in person at the time of application, and a parent or guardian must present some form of photo identification if the minor does not have one. This passport will be required for all international air travel with parent
Even payment procedures can be complex. The total cost of a passport for children under age 16 is $82. But if you apply at a local passport acceptance facility, you'll need to divide the payment between the U.S. State Department ($52) and the acceptance facility ($30). Passports for children under age 16 are good for five years. The bad news is that you'll have to go through pretty much the same process when it's time to renew your child's passport — apply in person, prove your relationship to your child, and so on. So hold on to all your documentation for the next go-round!
You will have at least two fees-the Passport Application Fee and the Execution Fee. For minors age 16 or 17, the passport fee is $110 and the execution fee is $25. The total is $135. For children under age 16, the passport fee is $80 and the execution fee is $25. The total is $105.
Types of Documents. All American passports are the same, but a child's passport isn't as valid for as long as an adult's is. If you're 16 or older when you apply for a passport, the document is valid for 10 years. If you're 15 or younger, it expires every five years. Applying. You must apply for a passport in person, though you can renew your passport by mail. If you're applying for a child younger than 16, the child and both legal guardians, if applicable, must appear together to apply. Both guardians must sign the child's passport application
The passport agency requires that your U.S. Passport be in good condition and that it not have expired more than 5 years ago when renewing. If you passport is expired more than 5 years ago or if your current passport was issued before the applicants 16 birthday, then you will need to apply as a New Passport applicant. 
To apply for a new passport for your child, you and your child will need to appear in person at a passport acceptance agency. Click here to find the passport acceptance office nearest you. You can also call 1-800-275-8777 for the location nearest you. BOTH parents should appear in person. (Please note: passports issued to children under the age of 16 are valid for 5 years only and if your child has an expired passport, it cannot be renewed and a new passport must be secured.).
1 person found this useful.   From whenever you would want to travel, many adults do not have a passport because they have not travelled abroad however when you want to leave your country to travel a … broad you need a passport whether you are newborn or 100 years of age. hope this helped. 4 people found this useful. Don Dfoofnik. You have to be 16 years of age or older to sign a passport without a parent being with you. You can sign by yourself at 14 but a parent/guardian/adult must be with you.