Non-indemnity insurance tends to cover things with no real replacement value. The amount of compensation received cannot be directly correlated with the loss. For example, life insurance is non-indemnity insurance because you cannot place a value or a cost of replacement on a person’s life.
In non-indemnity insurance the sum which the insured is entitled to receive from the insurer does not necessarily bear any relation to the actual loss, if any, suffered by the insured. Life insurance contracts, personal accident and sickness insurance are examples of non-indemnity insurance. Rgds max_jaret@yahoo.com. 
DEFINITION of 'Indemnity'. Indemnity is compensation for damages or loss. Indemnity in the legal sense may also refer to an exemption from liability for damages. The concept of indemnity is based on a contractual agreement made between two parties, in which one party agrees to pay for potential losses or damages caused by the other party
DEFINITION of 'Indemnity Insurance'. An insurance policy that aims to protect business owners and employees when they are found to be at fault for a specific event such as misjudgment. Typical examples of indemnity insurance include professional insurance policies such as malpractice insurance, and errors and omissions insurance, which indemnify professionals against claims made in the workplace.
indemnity reinsurance. An agreement between two or more insurance companies under which the reinsuring companies agree to accept and to indemnify the issuing company for all or part of the risk of loss under policies specified in the agreement. The ceding company retains its liability to and its contractual relationship with the insured. Administration of the claim is retained by the ceding company
Recompense for loss, damage, or injuries; restitution or reimbursement. An indemnity contract arises when one individual takes on the obligation to pay for any loss or damage that has been or might be incurred by another individual. The right to indemnity and the duty to indemnify ordinarily stem from a contractual agreement, which generally protects against liability, loss, or damage
Insurance can be broken down into two groups, indemnity and non-indemnity. For example, property insurance is indemnity insurance while life insurance is non-indemnity insurance. The amount of compensation received cannot be directly correlated with the loss. For example, life insurance is non-indemnity insurance because you cannot place a value or a cost of replacement on a person’s life.
Indemnity insurance is a way for a company (or individual) to be protected against indemnity claims. This insurance protects the holder from having to pay the full sum of an indemnity, even if the holder is at fault for the cause of the indemnity in the first place. Indemnity in the legal sense may also refer to an exemption from liability for damages.
Look up indemnity in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. An indemnity is an obligation by a person (indemnitor) to provide compensation for a particular loss suffered by another person (indemnitee). 1 An indemnity guarantees compensation equal to the amount of loss subject to the indemnity, while a warranty only guarantees compensation for the reduction in value of the acquired asset due to the warranted fact being untrue (and the beneficiary must prove such diminution in value).
Indemnity means that the insured is entitled to a specific amount of compensation for a loss that is tied to a replacement, reimbursement, or fair-market value. The primary difference is that with indemnity insurance, there is no “profit” so to speak. The amount of compensation received cannot be directly correlated with the loss. For example, life insurance is non-indemnity insurance because you cannot place a value or a cost of replacement on a person’s life.