For linoleic acid (no n), see linoleic acid. Gamma-linolenic acid or GLA (γ-Linolenic acid), (INN and USAN gamolenic acid) is a fatty acid found primarily in vegetable oils. It is sold as a dietary supplement for a variety of human health problems, although there is little or no evidence of its effectiveness. GLA is obtained from vegetable oils such as evening primrose (Oenothera biennis) oil (EPO), blackcurrant seed oil, borage seed oil, and hemp seed oil. GLA is also found in varying amounts in edible hemp seeds, oats, barley, and spirulina.
Gamma linolenic acid (GLA) is a fatty acid with history. Most commonly found in the seeds of the evening primrose, it’s been used for centuries in homeopathic remedies and folk cures. Native Americans used it to reduce swelling. GLA is an omega-6 fatty acid that your body can’t produce, but is readily available in tons of vegetable-based oils. Along with evening primrose oil, you can find it in borrage seed oil and blackcurrant seed oil capsules at most health food stores. However, most diets contain enough that you don’t need a supplement.
10 most extreme places on Earth. GLA stands for gamma-linolenic acid. This is an omega-6 fatty acid that the human body needs for proper functioning. Since the body cannot manufacture this essential fatty acid on its own, a person needs to consume it in food or from supplements. When GLA is taken as a supplement, it converts to a substance called dihomo-gamma-linolenic acid (DGLA). This conversion is accomplished with the help of certain nutrients, like vitamin C, zinc, and magnesium. When gamma-linolenic acid is converted to DGLA, it may help the body combat inflammation.
Gamma linolenic acid (GLA) is a dietary omega-6 fatty acid found in many plant oil extracts. Commercial products are typically made from seed extracts from evening primrose (average oil content 7-14%), blackcurrant (15-20%), borage oil (20-27%) and fungal oil (25%). GLA is not found in high levels in the diet. A Discovery Health answered. Gamma-linolenic acid (GLA) is an omega-6 fatty acid that helps protect bodily tissues, provide energy, maintain body temperature and insulate nerves. Our bodies convert GLA to a hormone-like substance called prostaglandin E1, which regulates nerve functions.
Overview. Gamma-linolenic acid (GLA) is an omega-6 fatty acid. Omega-6 fatty acids are considered essential fatty acids. They are necessary for human health, but the body cannot make them. You have to get them through food. You can get GLA from several plant-based oils, including evening primrose oil (EPO), borage oil, and black currant seed oil. Most of these oils also contain some linoleic acid. A healthy diet contains a balance of omega-3 and omega-6
Gamma linolenic acid is a fatty substance found in various plant seed oils such as borage oil and evening primrose oil. People use it as medicine. Gamma linolenic acid (GLA) is used for conditions that affect the skin including systemic sclerosis, psoriasis, and eczema. 
GLA is categorized as an n−6 (also called ω−6 or omega-6) fatty acid, meaning that the first double bond on the methyl end (designated with n or ω) is the sixth bond. GLA is obtained from vegetable oils such as evening primrose (Oenothera biennis) oil (EPO), blackcurrant seed oil, borage seed oil, and hemp seed oil. GLA is also found in varying amounts in edible hemp seeds, oats, barley, and spirulina.
Gamma-Linolenic Acid (GLA). GLA (gamma-linolenic acid) is one of the two main types of essential fatty acids. These are good fats that are as necessary for your health as vitamins. Specifically, GLA is an omega-6 fatty acid. (For more information on the other major category of essential fatty acids, omega-3, see the article on fish oil .). The body uses essential fatty acids to make various prostaglandins and leukotrienes.