Hemp seeds come from the same hemp plant renowned for its durable fiber. The seeds of the plant are edible (known as hemp seeds, or hemp nuts) and are used in a growing number of products today. See also: 1  Cooking with hemp seeds: Hemp seed recipes to try. 2  A complete list of hemp food recipes: Hemp oil, hemp seeds, hemp powder and more. The essential fatty acids (both Omega-3s and Omega-6s) are abundant in hemp seeds and come in a ratio that is highly beneficial to humans. Magnesium, iron, and potassium are in good supply along with fiber. Some of hemp seed's supply of antioxidants comes from its vitamin E content.
Hemp seed oil is a great source of high-quality nutrients and has a long history of use in Eastern culture as a multi-purpose natural remedy. Despite its widespread popularity, prejudice related to its association with cannabis has kept it from common use in the West. Hemp seed oil has a 3:1 ratio of Omega-6 to Omega-3 fatty acids, a balance that has been shown to support heart health and promote proper cardiovascular function. These nutrients play a role in many biological processes and may help prevent a number of degenerative diseases.
The oil contained in the hemp seed is 75-80% polyunsaturated fatty acids (the good fats) and only 9-11% of the lesser desired saturated fatty acids. Hemp seed oil is reputed to be the most unsaturated oil derived from the plant kingdom. Hemp Seeds are a complete protein. They have the most concentrated balance of proteins, essential fats, vitamins and enzymes combined with a relative absence of sugar, starches and saturated fats.
Hemp (from Old English haenep) hænep is a commonly used term for-high growing varieties of The cannabis plant and its, products which include, fiber, oil and. Seed hemp is refined into products such as hemp seed, foods hemp, oil, wax, resin, rope, cloth, pulp, paper and. fuel Hemp (from Old English haenep) hænep is a commonly used term for-high growing varieties of The cannabis plant and its, products which include, fiber, oil and. seed
Hemp is refined into products such as hemp seed foods, hemp oil, wax, resin, rope, cloth, pulp, paper, and fuel. Other variants of the herb Cannabis are widely used as a drug, commonly known as marijuana. Hemp (from Old English haenep) hænep is a commonly used term for-high growing varieties of The cannabis plant and its, products which include, fiber, oil and. seed
Hemp seed oil is often used as a moisturizer for the skin, and for good reason. Studies have indicated that hemp seed oil can dramatically decrease skin dryness to alleviate itching and irritation. Moreover, the antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties may protect against the aging process while soothing the skin. Hemp seed oil has a 3:1 ratio of Omega-6 to Omega-3 fatty acids, a balance that has been shown to support heart health and promote proper cardiovascular function. These nutrients play a role in many biological processes and may help prevent a number of degenerative diseases.
Hemp seeds can be used in a variety of food products as well. Hemp seed food products are also considered more allergy-free than many other seeds. Hemp seeds contain the perfect balance of essential amino acids for sustaining good health. Hemp seeds are easily digested by the body and is one of the most nutritious foods available in nature. They contain high amounts of essential fatty acids, essential amino acids and proteins. Hemp seeds are such foods which can sustain our dietary needs, even if you don't consume any other healthy food.
Hemp Seeds are a gift of nature. They are the most nutritious seed in the world. Hemp Seeds are a complete protein. They have the most concentrated balance of proteins, essential fats, vitamins and enzymes combined with a relative absence of sugar, starches and saturated fats. Hemp Seeds are one of nature's perfect foods-a Super Foo
www.Healing-Source.com. Hemp Hearts (shelled hemp seeds) - raw shelled hemp seed is one of nature's perfect foods-a Super Food. This is one of the most potent foods available, supporting optimal health and well being, for life. 