By Robert Rosenberg, DO. Sleep disturbances are among the most common symptoms of fibromyalgia, a chronic condition affecting the spinal cord and brain that causes people to feel pain and fatigue, and affects concentration. In fact, along with the tiredness, pain, and psychosocial distress, sleep disturbances are a core feature. 
Fibromyalgia is a chronic condition that causes pain, stiffness, and tenderness of muscles, tendons, and joints. It is also characterized by restless sleep, awakening feeling tired, chronic fatigue, anxiety, depression, and disturbances in bowel function. 
Mood swings are another symptom of fibromyalgia. One condition that has a role both as an effect and a trigger of fibromyalgia is depression. People with fibromyalgia tend to have problems with depression. This depression can arise due to the constant in chronic pain that these people experience. As fibromyalgia affects the central nervous system and the way processes different sensation from different parts of the body it can cause a great deal of problems in sleep and mood regulation. One common sleep problem that is reported by people suffering from fibromyalgia is that of continuous fatigu
Home Sleep Disorders Problems Fibromyalgia and Sleep. Fibromyalgia is a medical syndrome that causes widespread pain and stiffness in the muscles and joints as well as sleep problems and chronic daytime fatigue. Here are some tips: 1  Prioritize sleep – it is important for people with fibromyalgia to maintain a regular sleep schedule and to get treatment for sleep disorders if necessary. 2  Create a quiet environment –chronic pain has been known to intensify in the presence of sound stress.
Sleep Apnea. 80% of people with fibromyalgia suffer from sleep apnea, a disorder that causes momentary stoppages in breathing. Sleep apnea only occurs when a person is sleeping, but it can affect some people so badly that they actually cause themselves to wake up. But fibromyalgia isn’t just associated with pain. Fibromyalgia and sleep disorders also go hand in hand. In fact, it is thought that up to 80% of people with fibromyalgia experience some type of disordered sleep.
Most people with fibromyalgia — more than 75 percent, according to the National Fibromyalgia Research Association — complain of sleep disturbances and daytime fatigue. Experts believe that these feelings of grogginess and sleep deprivation are the result of problems falling asleep and staying asleep. 
Therefore, depression may be a mediator of pain and poor sleep in fibromyalgia. On the other hand, it is conceivable that fibromyalgia-related pain may lead to disturbed sleep, with the combination of pain and disturbed sleep ultimately leading to depression. It may also be true that some other abnormality leads to the pain and mood and sleep disorders seen in fibromyalgia.
For example, studies of patients experiencing pain after surgery show disturbed sleep, reduced rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, and a normalization of sleep as recovery proceeds. People with fibromyalgia may also experience an alteration in their patterns of slow wave sleep, which is the deepest stage of sleep. Here are some tips: 1  Prioritize sleep – it is important for people with fibromyalgia to maintain a regular sleep schedule and to get treatment for sleep disorders if necessary. 2  Create a quiet environment –chronic pain has been known to intensify in the presence of sound stress.
Due to the disruption of sleep patterns the moods of patients suffering with fibromyalgia are also deeply affected. Nearly all the mood problems that are associated with sleep deprivation can be seen in patients who suffer from interrupted sleep patterns due to fibromyalgia. As fibromyalgia affects the central nervous system and the way processes different sensation from different parts of the body it can cause a great deal of problems in sleep and mood regulation. One common sleep problem that is reported by people suffering from fibromyalgia is that of continuous fatigue