Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. Chino is a Spanish word translating as China or Chinese.. The term, which is synonymous with  khakis  when used to describe pants, migrated to the English language, when pants made of strong cotton fabric were used as part of military uniforms in both the UK and the US. Chino pants are definitely *not* synonymous with 'khakis.' Chino pants are made of twill cotton (originally from China) and of better quality (thicker) than khakis. Think of chinos as business class khakis.
A pair of trousers made from chino cloth, generally referred to as chinos. Chino cloth (/ˌtʃiːnoʊ/ CHEE-noh) is a twill fabric, originally made of 100% cotton. The most common items made from it, trousers, are widely called chinos. Today it is also found in cotton-synthetic blends. Developed in the mid-19th century for British and French military uniforms, it has since migrated into civilian wear
An excert from here : Slacks implies pants of certain materials which are not part of a suit (jeans are not slacks, and you would not refer to the pair of trousers that came with a suit as slacks.) It is also more common to use slacks to refer to pants worn by women, while men would wear trousers. Trousers is generally a term for pants that have a matching jacket, though the term pants is used as well. Slacks, as I said above, are dressy without being formal, and do not have a matching jacket. Jeans, on the other hand, are jeans. Denim riveted if truly authentic, exterior back pockets ..
Chinos. Chino is the name of the garment as well as the fabric that is used to make the garment. This cloth is made from twill fabric that is pure cotton and provides a lot of comfort to the wearer. This is why these trousers are worn during summers and spring. Chinos are also known as khakis in some places. • Both jeans, as well as chinos, are made from twill fabric, but the twill used for jeans is heavier than that used for making chinos. • Jeans is considered more casual wear than chinos that are worn at work place. • Jeans is mostly blue in color, whereas chinos are khaki or skin colored.
There is no doubt that khakis and chinos have many similarities. However, there are distinct differences between the two styles of pants. These differences can help men decide which pant to seek out in different situations. Most closets will have an assortment of both khakis and chinos. Finding Khakis and Chinos on eBay. The simplest way to buy khakis and chinos on eBay is to go to the eBay home page. From there, a buyer should rest his or her mouse cursor on Fashion, then click Men's Clothing. Click Pants to reveal a variety of items. Under the left-hand column, scroll to the Style category.
The British and then American armies started wearing it as standard during the latter half of the 1800s. The pure-cotton fabric is widely used for trousers, referred to as chinos. The original khaki (light brown) is the traditional and most popular color, but chinos are made in many shades. Chino cloth (/ˌtʃiːnoʊ/ CHEE-noh) is a twill fabric, originally made of 100% cotton. The most common items made from it, trousers, are widely called chinos. Today it is also found in cotton-synthetic blends. Developed in the mid-19th century for British and French military uniforms, it has since migrated into civilian wear