The mean is the average you're used to, where you add up all the numbers and then divide by the number of numbers. The median is the middle value in the list of numbers. To find the median, your numbers have to be listed in numerical order, so you may have to rewrite your list first. 
1 The range of a set of numbers is the highest number minus the lowest number. 2  So, in the set { 2,5,8,2,1,4,3] the highest number is 8 and the lowest number is 1, so the range is. 1 So, in the set { 2,5,8,2,1,4,3] the highest number is 8 and the lowest number is 1, so the range is. 2  If there are any negative numbers in the set, then you have to be really careful, because subtracting a negative number is the same thing as adding the positive number. 3  So, in the set.
Range (statistics). more ... The difference between the lowest and highest values. In {4, 6, 9, 3, 7} the lowest value is 3, and the highest is 9, so the range is 9 − 3 = 6. Range can also mean all the output values of a function. See: Range of a function. The Range (Statistics). Search :: Index :: About :: Contact :: Contribute :: Cite This Page :: Privacy.
From the Values. A function can be written as a list of values. {(5,3), (2,7), (1,-3), (-2,9)}. The range of this simple function is the second number from each pair, or the list of output values. In this case they are 3, 7 -3, 9. In the function example above, f(x) = x ^2, you also used values to determine the range. 
Range: The range is the set of all possible output values (usually the variable y, or sometimes expressed as f(x)), which result from using a particular function. Definition. Domain: The domain of a function is the set of all possible input values (often the x variable), which produce a valid output from
The range of these test scores is 21 points. Definition: The range of a set of data is the difference between the highest and lowest values in the set. In the problem above, the set of data consists of 7 test scores. We ordered the data from least to greatest before finding the range. We recommend that you do this, too. Summary: The range of a set of data is the difference between the highest and lowest values in the set. To find the range, first order the data from least to greatest. Then subtract the smallest value from the largest value in the set.
The range is the set of all possible values of a function for the values of the variable. For Statistical Data. The range is the difference between the greatest data value and the least data value of a set. To find the range of numbers you need to subtract the smallest listed value from the largest. *In a Cartesian coordinate system, the domain is measured along the x-axis and the range is along the y-axis. *If you have a set of numbers, it is the difference between the highest number and the lowest number. The range is the difference between the largest and smallest terms of the set of numbers. So to find the range find the largest number then find the smallest number and finall … y take the largest number from the smallest. For example, imagine the set of numbers is {2,8,9,5,10,20,1,31}.