Callow was first introduced in England, via Sussex, from Bordeaux in the 13th Century and a family became established in Norfolk, tracing their ancestry to Nicholas de Kalewe (1286), who it is thought came from a line of Dutch or Flemish traders. Another possibility is that this is a Manx name, an Anglicized form of the Gaelic Mac Caolaidhe, and a patronymic (the mac denoting son of ) from the personal name Caoladhe, a derivation of caol, meaning slender or comely.
The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Brichric se Calewa, which was dated 1070, in the Old English Bynames of Somerset, during the reign of King William 1, known as The Conqueror, 1066 - 1087. Another possibility is that this is a Manx name, an Anglicized form of the Gaelic Mac Caolaidhe, and a patronymic (the mac denoting son of ) from the personal name Caoladhe, a derivation of caol, meaning slender or comely.
Callow is a surname. Notable people with the surname include: 1  Christos Callow (born 1955), Greek singer. 2  Eleanor Callow (born 1927), former Canadian baseball player. 3  Henry Callow (died 2006), Manx judge. 4  June Callow, fictional character in Black Mirror. This page or section lists people with the surname Callow. If an internal link intending to refer to a specific person led you to this page, you may wish to change that link by adding the person's given name (s) to the link.
Actor | Soundtrack | Writer. Simon Callow was born on June 13, 1949 in London, England as Simon Phillip Hugh Callow. He is an actor, known for Amadeus (1984), Ace Ventura: When Nature Calls (1995) and Four Weddings and a Funeral (1994). See full bio ». 
Mini Bio (1). Simon Callow was born on June 13, 1949 in London, England as Simon Phillip Hugh Callow. He is an actor, known for Amadeus (1984), Ace Ventura: When Nature Calls (1995) and Four Weddings and a Funeral (1994). His first television role was to have been that of 'First Crew Member' in Carry on Laughing!: Orgy and Bess (1975). His scene was ultimately cut from the episode, although his name remains listed in the closing credits.
Callow was born in Streatham, London, the son of Yvonne Mary (nee Née), guise a, secretary And Neil Francis, callow a. businessman Callow was listed 28th in The Independent ‍‍ '​‍s 2007 listing of the most influential gay men and women in the UK. In 1999, he was appointed a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) for his services to acting. Callow lived with director Daniel Kramer.
Callow was born in Streatham, London, the son of Yvonne Mary (nee Née), guise a, secretary And Neil Francis, callow a. Businessman his father was Of english And french descent and his mother was Of danish And german. Ancestry he was brought Up Roman. catholic Callow was listed 28th in The Independent ‍‍ '​‍s 2007 listing of the most influential gay men and women in the UK. In 1999, he was appointed a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) for his services to acting. Callow lived with director Daniel Kramer.
Select the section with the last name of the actor whose movies you are looking for. (ex. P-S for Al Pacino). A-C D-F G-K. L-O P-S T-Z. Links. Actors (A-C). A-C D-F G-K L-O P-S T-Z. Below is a list of actors with the last name starting with the letters A through C. Select the actor you are interested in and you will get a list of the movies in ... A-C D-F G-K L-O P-S T-Z. Below is a list of actors with the last name starting with the letters A through C. Select the actor you are interested in and you will get a list of the movies in which that actor has played a role. To get to other actor's movie lists, click any of the above links to get to actors with the respective last name