IPC-A-610 is the most widely used electronics assembly standard (a document) in the world. A must for all quality assurance and assembly departments, IPC-A-610 E is the latest revision.
It publishes the most widely used acceptability standards in the electronics industry. IPC is headquartered in Bannockburn, IL and maintains additional offices in Taos, N.M.; Arlington, Va.; Stockholm, Sweden; Moscow, Russia; Bangalore, India; and Shanghai, Shenzhen and Beijing, China. see more on Definitions.net ».
It publishes the most widely used acceptability standards in the electronics industry. IPC is headquartered in Bannockburn, IL and maintains additional offices in Taos, N.M.; Arlington, Va.; Stockholm, Sweden; Moscow, Russia; Bangalore, India; and Shanghai, Shenzhen and Beijing, China.
IPC is accredited by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) as a standards developing organization and is known globally for its standards. It publishes the most widely used acceptability standards in the electronics industry. IPC is headquartered in Bannockburn, IL and maintains additional offices in Washington, D.C. ; Taos, N.M.; Arlington, Va.; Stockholm, Sweden; Moscow, Russia; Bangalore, India; and Shanghai, Shenzhen and Beijing, China.
IPC, the Association Connecting Electronics Industries, is a trade association whose aim is to standardize the assembly and production requirements of electronic equipment and assemblies. It was founded in 1957 as the Institute for Printed Circuits.
IPC standards are used by the electronics manufacturing industry. IPC-A-610, Acceptability of Electronic Assemblies, is used worldwide by original equipment manufacturers and EMS companies. There are more than 3600 trainers worldwide who are certified to train and test on the standard.
IPC, the Association Connecting Electronics Industries, is a nonprofit organization that develops and publishes standards guiding the assembly and production of electronic equipment. Headquartered near Chicago, United States, IPC standards are the most widely used acceptability standards in the electronics industry.