So... hypertrophic facet sclerosis means that (some) joints in the spine look overgrown. And (since I'm guessing this was diagnosed via x-ray) the sclerosis refers to the extra whiteness that shows up on the x-ray in the area of those joints. Facets are particular joints in your spine. Hypertrophic means roughly: overgrown or excessive in size. Sclerosis can refer to a hardening of tissue or (on x-ray) an appa … rent whitening of an area/region.
Causes of facet disease. Facet disease may arise when the cartilage in a facet joint is worn down as a result of aging, injury or wear and tear. This type of spinal damage can be attributed to arthritis, work, overuse or an injury sustained in an accident. Facet disease occurs when a facet joint degenerates. While this can take place at any level of the spine, it most commonly affects the lumbar (lower spine) region. 1  Facet arthritis. 2  Facet joint syndrome. 3  F
A person's spine consists of vertebrae which lock together through small bones called facets, thus creating the spine. In facet sclerosis, the facets have become malformed due to thickening and hardening which causes a great deal of discomfort because the spine is not locking together as smoothly as it should do. Facets are particular joints in your spine. Hypertrophic means roughly: overgrown or excessive in size. Sclerosis can refer to a hardening of tissue or (on x-ray) an appa … rent whitening of an area/region.
Sclerosis means hardening. So, mild facet sclerosis means mild hardening (or calcification) of the tiny joints in your spinal col … umn. This is a degenerative change that occurs in older people, in people with osteoarthritis, or in response to trauma. Facets are particular joints in your spine. Hypertrophic means roughly: overgrown or excessive in size. Sclerosis can refer to a hardening of tissue or (on x-ray) an appa … rent whitening of an area/region.
Get help from a doctor now ›. Spinal disease: Basically those terms describe changes in vertebrae that are affected by arthritis or degenerative changes. Facets are the small posterior joints at each level of spine. Disease there is again a component of arthritis. Osteophytes are spurs which occur as areas of bone and joint are stressed and try to protect their structures. Endplate sclerosis is bony thickening seen at vertebral disc area.
Description of facet disease. Facet joints are the structures that connect the spinal vertebrae to each other. A facet joint is like many other joints in the body — it has a cartilage lining that allows the bones to glide smoothly over each other and is surrounded by a protective capsule. Facet disease occurs when a facet joint degenerates. While this can take place at any level of the spine, it most commonly affects the lumbar (lower spine) region. 1  Facet arthritis. 2  Facet joint syndrome. 3  F
A person's spine consists of vertebrae which lock together through small bones called facets, thus creating the spine. In facet sclerosis, the facets have become malformed due … to thickening and hardening which causes a great deal of discomfort because the spine is not locking together as smoothly as it should do. So... hypertrophic facet sclerosis means that (some) joints in the spine look overgrown. And (since I'm guessing this was diagnosed via x-ray) the sclerosis refers to the extra whiteness that shows up on the x-ray in the area of those joints.
Facets are tiny joints in your spinal column. Sclerosis means hardening. So, mild facet sclerosis means mild hardening (or calcification) of the tiny joints in your spinal column. This is a degenerative change that occurs in older people, in people with osteoarthritis, or in response to trauma. So... hypertrophic facet sclerosis means that (some) joints in the spine look overgrown. And (since I'm guessing this was diagnosed via x-ray) the sclerosis refers to the extra whiteness that shows up on the x-ray in the area of those joints.