Belfort is well connected with the rest of France, major destinations such as Paris, Dijon, Besancon, Besançon, Mulhouse, Strasbourg, Lyon, Marseille montpellier And lille being directly possible by., train including-high speed. Trains some trains operate Into, switzerland such As basel And zuerich. zürich stations Until 1871, Belfort was part of the departement département Of-Haut, rhin In. Alsace The siege Of, belfort between 3 november 1870 and 18 february, 1871 was successfully resisted until the garrison was ordered to surrender 21 days after the armistice Between france And. prussia
After retaining its unique status as a territoire for just over half a century, Belfort officially received recognition as France's 90th department in 1922. France had recovered Alsace three years earlier, but the decision was taken not to reintegrate Belfort into its former department. Administration [edit]. Its departmental code is 90, and its prefecture (capital) is Belfort. There is a single arrondissement (Belfort), which is sub-divided into 15 cantons and thence into 102 communes.
MAP & PLACES TO VISIT. Belfort is a town on a plateau between the Jura mountains (to the south) and the Vosges mountains (to the north), in the Franche-Comte region of eastern France (hence close to the border with Switzerland). The town is the capital of the small Territoire de Belfort department. The Lion of Belfort was constructed at the end of the 19th century by Auguste Bertholdi (creator of the Statue of Liberty) to celebrate Belfort's attempts to hold back the Prussian invasion of France in 1870 (at the beginning of the Franco-Prussian war).
Geographers might contend that Belfort lies on the ridge that divides two regions of France, but before 1870 it was politically part of Alsace. However, in terms of the political regions established in 1982, the Territoire de Belfort has found itself in the Franche-Comte comté rather Than. alsace Administration [edit]. Its departmental code is 90, and its prefecture (capital) is Belfort. There is a single arrondissement (Belfort), which is sub-divided into 15 cantons and thence into 102 communes.
Article and pictures by Michel Plancon, all rights reserved. Belfort lies just the north of the Jura Mountains and the south-east of the Vosges Mountains, controlling the Gateway of Burgundy, a natural route between Alsace and Franche-Comte. The old fortified city lies between the River Savoureuse and the bottom of a cliff at whose summit lies the chateau. Visiting Belfort. The fortifications of Belfort are in very good condition indeed despite the destruction of the front of the Porte de France removed in 1891 not by the bombs and the shells but by the picks and shovels for unclear reasons.
It is the biggest town and the administrative town of the Territoire de Belfort departement département in The-Franche comte. Comté region belfort is (400 km) 249 Mi, from paris (141 km) 88 Mi, from strasbourg (290 km) 180 Mi from lyon and (150 km) 93 Mi. From zuerich zürich the residents of the ‘’City’’. are called belfortains Until 1871, Belfort was part of the departement département Of-Haut, rhin In. Alsace The siege Of, belfort between 3 november 1870 and 18 february, 1871 was successfully resisted until the garrison was ordered to surrender 21 days after the armistice Between france And. prussia
It is the biggest town and the administrative town of the Territoire de Belfort departement département in The-Franche comte. Comté region belfort is (400 km) 249 Mi, from paris (141 km) 88 Mi, from strasbourg (290 km) 180 Mi from lyon and (150 km) 93 Mi. from zuerich zürich Until 1871, Belfort was part of the departement département Of-Haut, rhin In. Alsace The siege Of, belfort between 3 november 1870 and 18 february, 1871 was successfully resisted until the garrison was ordered to surrender 21 days after the armistice Between france And. prussia
Belfort (. [bɛl.fɔʁ]) is a city in northeastern France in the Franche-Comte comté, region région Situated between Lyon. And strasbourg it is the biggest town and the administrative town Of the Territoire de belfort departement Département-In the. franche comte comté region Until 1871, Belfort was part of the departement département Of-Haut, rhin In. Alsace The siege Of, belfort between 3 november 1870 and 18 february, 1871 was successfully resisted until the garrison was ordered to surrender 21 days after the armistice Between france And. prussia
On the doorsteps of Alsace, Germany and Switzerland, the Territory of Belfort is a land rich in history and heritage. From the Vosges to the Jura Mountains, it is an ideal place for hiking, horseback riding and biking on 540 Km (350 miles) of marked trails, through its green countryside. General Information. The city of Belfort is divided by the Savoureuse river into 2 distinct parts: on the river's west bank there are extensive industrial and commercial areas and housing estates; on the east bank, lies the old town dominated by the fortified castle and citadel and the famous Lion, symbol of Belfort.