As a consequence of the Reichstag Fire Decree, the Communist Party of Germany was banned on March 1, 1933 under the grounds that they were preparing a putsch. Best Answer: Political consequences of the Fire The day after the fire, Hitler asked for and received from President Hindenburg the Reichstag Fire Decree, signed into law by Hindenburg using Article 48 of the Weimar Constitution.
The Reichstag fire (German: Reichstagsbrand, ) was an arson attack on the Reichstag building in Berlin on 27 February 1933. Marinus van der Lubbe, a young Dutch council communist was arrested for the crime. In February 1933, three men were arrested who were to play pivotal roles during the Leipzig Trial, known also as the Reichstag Fire Trial: Bulgarians Georgi Dimitrov, Vasil Tanev and Blagoi Popov.
The fire started in the Session Chamber of the Reichstag building, the assembly location of the German Parliament. A Berlin fire station received an alarm call that the building was on fire at 21:25. By the time the police and firemen arrived, the main Chamber of Deputies was engulfed in flames. In February 1933, three men were arrested who were to play pivotal roles during the Leipzig Trial, known also as the Reichstag Fire Trial: Bulgarians Georgi Dimitrov, Vasil Tanev and Blagoi Popov.
In the March 5, 1933 Reichstag elections, the Nazis increased their share of the vote to 44 percent, which gave the Nazis and their allies, the German National People's Party, who won 8% of the vote a majority of 52% in the Reichstag. Best Answer: Political consequences of the Fire The day after the fire, Hitler asked for and received from President Hindenburg the Reichstag Fire Decree, signed into law by Hindenburg using Article 48 of the Weimar Constitution.
The Reichstag fire took place on February 27th1933. The Reichstag building was where Germany’s parliament sat and the fire that destroyed it has to be seen as one of the defining moments in the early days of NaziGermany. The Reichstag was the heart of German politics. Debates, political struggles, political scheming etc. all took place in the Reichstag. The Reichstag ceased to have any form of function after the fire and it most certainly could not be used as a base for the seat of government in Germany. The nearest large building that could accommodate all the deputies was the Kroll Opera House.
A Dutch Communist was arrested at the scene. However, there has been speculation that he was framed and the Nazis were involved. Certainly, Hitler persuaded President Hindenburg to pass the Reichstag Fire Decree, declaring a state of emergency. as the fire was supposedly started by a communist, the nazis played on the theme of a massive communist conspiracy against the state. communist publications were banned and in … the days that followed 4000 arrests took place, including communist members of the Reichstag.
The Reichstag was the name of the German parliament from 1871-1945 and also of the building where it was housed in Berlin. The Reichstag (building) is still used to this day … as the German seat of Government, for the parliament building. as the fire was supposedly started by a communist, the nazis played on the theme of a massive communist conspiracy against the state. communist publications were banned and in … the days that followed 4000 arrests took place, including communist members of the Reichstag.
The Reichstag Fire, 1933. T he alarm was sounded on the evening of February 27, 1933 signaling not only a fire, but the arrival of a crucial moment in German history. The Reichstag Building in Berlin, the seat of the German Parliament, was ablaze. 
On the night of February 27th Hitler and Goebbels were having dinner at Goebbel’s Berlin home. Just after 21.00, Goebbels received a phone call from Dr. Hansfstaengl that the Reichstag building was on fire. The Reichstag ceased to have any form of function after the fire and it most certainly could not be used as a base for the seat of government in Germany. The nearest large building that could accommodate all the deputies was the Kroll Opera House.