Coaxial cable. A Coaxial cable is a cable used in the transmission of video, communications, and audio. This cable has high bandwidths and greater transmission capacity. Most users relate to a coaxial or coax cable as a cable used to connect their TVs to a cable TV service. However, these cables are also used in networks and what allow a broadband cable Internet connection using a cable modem. The picture is an example of a c
The most commonly recognized variety of RG-6 is cable television (CATV) distribution coax, used to route cable television signals to and within homes, and RG-6 type cables have become the standard for CATV, mostly replacing the smaller RG-59, in recent years. In practice, the term RG-6 is generally used to refer to coaxial cables with an 18 AWG center conductor and 75 ohm characteristic impedance.
Today RG6 is the more commonly used RG-type. RG6 is used in a variety of applications, both residential and commercial. RG6 is typically a double shielded coaxial cable about 6.86mm in diameter with a center conductor a bit larger than that of the RG59 type. 1 Dual/Siamese: Dual and/or Siamese coaxial cable have two cables bound together at the jacket. 2  This type of cable can come in different variations. 3  One variation is two RG6 type cables bound together by the jacket. 4  It is commonly referred to as dual RG6 and is typically used for satellite TV installations.
The outer channel serves as a ground. Many of these cables or pairs of coaxial tubes can be placed in a single outer sheathing and, with repeaters, can carry information for a great distance. Coaxial cable is sometimes used by telephone companies from their central office to the telephone poles near users. It is also widely installed for use in business and corporation Ethernet and other types of local area network. 
Coaxial Cable. The coaxial cable is a copper-based wire cable. It is composed of four separate layers. The center of the cable has a thin wire conductor. Surrounding the copper wire is a layer of plastic insulation. On top of this layer is a wire mesh providing another layer of insulation and a shield from outside interference. The coaxial cable is a popular wire used for audio and visual purposes, especially televisions and VCRs.
Coaxial cable conducts electrical signal using an inner conductor (usually a solid copper, stranded copper or copper plated steel wire) surrounded by an insulating layer and all enclosed by a shield, typically one to four layers of woven metallic braid and metallic tape. For high-power radio-frequency transmission up to about 1 GHz, coaxial cable with a solid copper outer conductor is available in sizes of 0.25 inch upward. The outer conductor is rippled like a bellows to permit flexibility and the inner conductor is held in position by a plastic spiral to approximate an air dielectric.
Coaxial cable, or coax (pronounced /ˈkoʊ.aeks/), æks is a type of cable that has an inner conductor surrounded by a tubular insulating, layer surrounded by a tubular conducting. Shield many coaxial cables also have an insulating outer sheath or. jacket For high-power radio-frequency transmission up to about 1 GHz, coaxial cable with a solid copper outer conductor is available in sizes of 0.25 inch upward. The outer conductor is rippled like a bellows to permit flexibility and the inner conductor is held in position by a plastic spiral to approximate an air dielectric.
RG-59 Coaxial Cable. RG -59 cable is the most widely used coaxial cable for most cable television and VCR applications. It is characterized by a 23 AWG (American Wire Gauge) center conductor. RG-59 cable is typically less expensive than RG-6 cable. The most common types of coaxial cable for video installations have been the RG-59 and RG-6 cables. Of these two, RG-59 is typically the default cable type for most low-cost cable installations. RG stands for radio guide, and the numbering of RG types of coax cable is arbitrary.
Applications of coax cable. Coax cable or coaxial feeder is used in many applications where it is necessary to transfer radio frequency energy from one point to another. Possibly the most obvious use of coax cable is for domestic television down-leads, but it is widely used in many other areas as well. The most common type of antenna feeder used today is undoubtedly coaxial feeder or coax cable. Coax cable, often referred to as RF cable, offers advantages of convenience of use while being able to provide a good level of performance.
RG-6 Coaxial cable. RG-6/U is a common type of coaxial cable used in a wide variety of residential and commercial applications. The term RG-6 itself is quite generic and refers to a wide variety of cable designs, which differ from one another in shielding characteristics, center conductor composition, dielectric type and jacket type. In practice, the term RG-6 is generally used to refer to coaxial cables with an 18 AWG center conductor and 75 ohm characteristic impedance.