Foods that are not a good source of protein include bread, grains, cereal, fruit, vegetables. Protein is found in meat, dairy, nuts, beans, cheese. 4 people found this useful. Edit. No, wheat is not a good source of protein. Protein is found in meat, poultry, eggs, dairy and beans. Edit. Share to: 1  5 Easy Protein Sources for Vegetarians If you are worried about getting enough protein on a vegetarian diet, you shouldn't. 2  Dozens of foods out there are easy to buy, simple to use, and taste great.
Here are the top 20 good sources of protein that aren’t meat, ranked in order from highest to lowest in protein per 100 grams. 1. Seitan – 75g per 100g. Blowing away the competition is seitan, also known as wheat gluten, which is made up of 75% protein. If you’re not eating lentils on a regular basis, you may want to start. They have an surprising amount of protein in them, taking the number two spot on our list. Lentils pack a ton of fiber, so in the same 100 gram serving that nets you 26 grams of protein you’re getting your entire day’s worth of fiber met.
Try a protein powder from GNC or Smoothie king....it's a really easy way to get about 60 grams of protein in one shake and that's at the lower end. Beans and nuts are also good sources of proteins. Even soy proteins are good, but eat them in moderation. lheartcowboys · 7 years ago. Best Answer: Apple - 56 calories - 1% of those calories are protein. This is how it is for most fruit. They contain little if any protein. If you are looking for protein try these foods: -yogurt-cottage cheese-beans-brown rice-almonds-cashews-peanuts-kidney beans-lima beans Hope I helped, good luck :).
Added features include it being low in sodium and carbohydrates, high in iron, and a good source of calcium. It’s also very low in fat, which makes it a great addition to many diet programs as a way to get protein with no cholesterol and not much fat added. If you’re not eating lentils on a regular basis, you may want to start. They have an surprising amount of protein in them, taking the number two spot on our list. Lentils pack a ton of fiber, so in the same 100 gram serving that nets you 26 grams of protein you’re getting your entire day’s worth of fiber met.
Nutritional Profile. Peanuts are an excellent source of biotin. They are also a very good source of copper as well as a good source of manganese, niacin, molybdenum, folate, vitamin E, phosphorus, vitamin B1, and protein. For an in-depth nutritional profile click here: Peanuts. 
No, apples are not a good source of protein. Fruits with more protein include avocados, guavas and pomegranates. No, wheat is not a good source of protein. Protein is found in meat, poultry, eggs, dairy and beans. Edit. Share to: 1  5 Easy Protein Sources for Vegetarians If you are worried about getting enough protein on a vegetarian diet, you shouldn't. 2  Dozens of foods out there are easy to buy, simple to use, and taste great.
Good protein sources. Eggs. King of food protein is the humble egg. A medium egg has around 6g of protein of the highest biological value, meaning it comes complete with all 20 amino acids in the most digestible form. An omelette is a good way to start the day and is a good recovery snack too.
Many of us have heard that meat and eggs are good sources of protein (and they are), but there are alternatives (including plenty of vegan options !) to these standbys for every meal and all the snacks in between. Not only are they a great protein source, they’re also inexpensive and taste just as good frozen as fresh, so you can use them in a last-minute pinch. Swapping out some of the expensive avocado in this guac makes it more budget-friendly and keeps it delicious. Chia Seeds. Protein: 4 grams per 2 tablespoons.
1 Even though apple is not an excellent source of dietary fiber (it ranks as a good source in our WHFoods Rating System), the fiber found in apple may combine with other apple nutrients to provide you with the kind of health benefits you would ordinarily only associate with much higher amounts of dietary fiber. 