Onomatopoeia Examples. Onomatopoeia is when a word’s pronunciation imitates its sound. When you say an onomatopoeic word, the utterance itself is reminiscent of the sound to which the word refers. Poets use onomatopoeia to access the reader’s auditory sense and create rich soundscapes. Onomatopoeia is when a word’s pronunciation imitates its sound. When you say an onomatopoeic word, the utterance itself is reminiscent of the sound to which the word refer
Onomatopoeia is the formation or use of words such as buzz or murmur that imitate the natural sounds associated with actions they refer to. Other examples are boom, rattle, crackle, squawk, and snap. Both verbs and nouns may both fall into this category. For instance: The duck squawked at the dog. An onomatopoeia poem is a poem in which you use noise words such as eeek or vrooom or oink. They use sound words as you go throughout the poem. 8 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Rxn.
Onomatopoeia is the formation of a word from a sound associated with what is named. For example, onomatopoeia is the hum of the bees, the pop of a balloon, or the tweet of a bird. The word Onomatopoeia can also be used to describe the use of such words for rhetorical effect. Definition of Onomatopoeia. Onomatopoeia pronounced: \ˌae-ˌä-nə-ˌmae-ˌmä-tə, -ˈpē-\. ə ˌma onomatopoeia is the formation of a word from a sound associated with what. Is named, for example onomatopoeia is the hum of, the bees the pop of, a balloon or the tweet of. a bird
Onomatopoeia Definition. Onomatopoeia is defined as a word, which imitates the natural sounds of a thing. It creates a sound effect that mimics the thing described, making the description more expressive and interesting. Onomatopoeia is defined as a word, which imitates the natural sounds of a thing
Onomatopoeia is a word that imitates the sound or suggests the source of the sound that it describes. It is commonly used in comic strips as action sounds and in nursery rhymes. 
Although in the English language the term onomatopoeia means the imitation of a sound, in the Greek language the compound word onomatopoeia (ονοματοποιία) means making or creating names. For words that imitate sounds, the term ηχομιμητικό (echomimetico or echomimetic) is used. 
Definition. Onomatopoeia is the use of words (such as hiss or murmur) that imitate the sounds associated with the objects or actions they refer to. Adjective: onomatopoeic or onomatopoetic. An onomatope is a particular word that imitates the sound it denotes. 