In patients with ulcerative colitis, ulcers and inflammation of the inner lining of the colon lead to symptoms of abdominal pain, diarrhea, and rectal bleeding. Ulcerative colitis is closely related to another condition of inflammation of the intestines called Crohn's disease. Ulcerative colitis facts. 1  Ulcerative colitis is an inflammation of the large intestine (colon). 2  The cause of ulcerative colitis is unknown. 3  Intermittent rectal bleeding, crampy abdominal pain and diarrhea often are symptoms of ulcerative colitis.
Ulcerative colitis affects only the colon and rectum. Crohn's can affect any part of the digestive tract. To learn more about Crohn's disease, see the topic Crohn's Disease. Ulcerative colitis is a disease that causes inflammation and sores (ulcers) in the lining of the large intestine (colon). It usually affects the lower section (sigmoid colon) and the rectum. But it can affect the entire colon. In general, the more of the colon that's affected, the worse the symptoms will be. 
Ulcerative colitis is a disease in which there is chronic inflammation of the inner lining of the colon. The inflammation can cause the lining tissue to break down, forming ulcerations that can bleed. Inflammation can involve the entire colon or only parts of it. Almost always, ulcerative colitis requires treatment. 
Ulcerative colitis (Colitis ulcerosa, UC) is a form of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) that causes inflammation and ulcers in the colon. The disease is a type of colitis, which is a group of diseases that cause inflammation of the colon, the largest section of the large intestine, either in segments or completely. Although the symptoms of ulcerative colitis can sometimes diminish on their own, the disease usually requires treatment to go into remission. Ulcerative colitis has an incidence of 1 to 20 cases per 100,000 individuals per year, and a prevalence of 8 to 246 per 100,000 individuals.
While both ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease are types of Inflammatory Bowel Diseases (IBD), they should not be confused with Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS), a disorder that affects the muscle contractions of the colon. IBS is not characterized by intestinal inflammation. 
The most common disease that mimics the symptoms of ulcerative colitis is Crohn's disease, as both are inflammatory bowel diseases that can affect the colon with similar symptoms. It is important to differentiate these diseases, since the course of the diseases and treatments may be different. Although the symptoms of ulcerative colitis can sometimes diminish on their own, the disease usually requires treatment to go into remission. Ulcerative colitis has an incidence of 1 to 20 cases per 100,000 individuals per year, and a prevalence of 8 to 246 per 100,000 individuals.
About Ulcerative Colitis. Ulcerative colitis is a chronic, or long-lasting, disease that causes inflammation and sores, called ulcers, in the inner lining of the large intestine, which includes the colon and the rectum-the end part of the colon. Ulcerative colitis is an inflammation of the large intestine that causes diarrhea, abdominal pain, rectal bleeding and fever. Since there is no cure for the disease the aim of treatment is to cause a reduction of the unpleasant and painful signs and symptoms
What not to eat. by Amanda MacMillan. Ulcerative colitis is a type of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) that causes inflammation and ulcers in the lining of the large intestine, or colon, and rectum. It can cause pain, bloating, and diarrhea during flare-ups, and often few or no symptoms between episodes. 
Ulcerative colitis is a chronic inflammation of the large intestine (colon). The colon is the part of the digestive system where water is removed from undigested material, and the remaining waste material is stored. The rectum is the end of the colon adjacent to the anus. Ulcerative colitis facts. 1  Ulcerative colitis is an inflammation of the large intestine (colon). 2  The cause of ulcerative colitis is unknown. 3  Intermittent rectal bleeding, crampy abdominal pain and diarrhea often are symptoms of ulcerative colitis.