Internal Temperature. Grill chicken until it reaches a safe internal temperature. Cook boneless chicken until it reaches an internal temperature of 170 degrees Fahrenheit and bone-in chicken until it reaches 180 degrees Fahrenheit.
1 When grilling chicken with direct heat on a gas grill, all of the burners are turned on to provide a uniform temperature under the entire cooking surface (grate). 2  Chicken is cooked over burners set on medium heat. 1 The cooking temperature typically reaches 450ºF to 650ºF when grilling over direct heat. 2  Thin pieces of chicken are quickly grilled over these temperatures, so check often and watch carefully for visual signs of doneness.
1 Lightly sprinkle chicken on all side to taste. 2  Let rest at room temperature until grill is ready. 3  Check grill temp if possible and place chicken on grill. 4  Flip every 5-7 minutes until internal temp of 185-190 degrees. 
As the chicken gets close to being done it is time to start checking the temperature. You need to reach and internal temperature on 165 degrees F. (74 degrees C.). Check all the pieces of chicken to be certain that they are indeed, cooked. Once you have hit the target temperature remove the chicken from the grill. Cover and allow to rest for about 5 minutes then serve. Get your grill up to temperature and then adjust the heat down to around 350 to 375 degrees F. (177 to 190 degrees C.). Now we are going to put the chicken on the grill. We want to put the larger pieces closer to higher temperature and the smaller pieces as far from the high temperature as possible.
You can pretty much ignore the chicken as it cooks. The chicken will take 2-1/2 to 3 hours to cook. You'll need to check the fire, adding coals now and then to keep the temperature of the grill between 230° and 250°F, but that's only about every 30 to 45 minutes. 
Crispy Skin. Place the chicken on direct heat to finish cooking through. This makes the skin extra crispy. At about 160 degrees F the chicken is finished. Remove chicken from the grill and let rest 5 to 10 minutes. The internal temperature will rise about 5 degrees while resting. 
1 For grilling chicken breasts, you need a two-zone, medium-hot fire. 2  Fire up a full chimney of Kingsford ® Charcoal, or light a pile of about 100 briquets. 3  When the coals are ready, arrange them in a two-zone fire. 4  Replace the top grate, and allow the grill to heat up with all vents fully open. 
Indirect Heat. Grill whole chicken and larger pieces of chicken over indirect heat for two-and-a-half to three hours -- depending on the size of the chicken -- at low to medium heat set between 230 and 250 degrees Fahrenheit. For charcoal grills, indirect heat means grilling chicken over an area not directly over the coals. Cook boneless chicken until it reaches an internal temperature of 170 degrees Fahrenheit and bone-in chicken until it reaches 18
Cooking it at Too High a Temperature. If you cook the chicken on too hot a grill, the skin will burn before the flesh cooks. Medium-low is the best temperature on a charcoal grill, and medium on a gas grill. This way, you’ll crisp the skin and avoid flareups. Drying Out Skinless, Boneless Chicken. Dark meat on the bone is more flavorful and will stay juicier on the grill
By about 30 minutes the chicken should be mostly cooked and ready for sauce. If you are not going to be putting barbecue sauce on your chicken then continue cooking until the internal temperature reaches 165 degrees F. (74 degrees C.) Go to step 9 for more details. Get your grill up to temperature and then adjust the heat down to around 350 to 375 degrees F. (177 to 190 degrees C.). Now we are going to put the chicken on the grill. We want to put the larger pieces closer to higher temperature and the smaller pieces as far from the high temperature as possible.