While you don't need to be a veterinarian in order to work as a dog food tester, it does help quite a little bit to know a lot about animal health. This way, you can better evaluate how dog food will taste to the audience that's actually meant to be eating it (i.e the dogs). Remember that most Americans do love their pets and there is nothing that most people won't do for them so you can potentially make a business out of recommending and selling assorted dog foods if you get turned down by Purina for the job of dog food tester.
Check out these helpful resources to find out more about becoming a dog food tester: Career Search: Dog Food Tester-This is an overview of the job of a dog food tester, though as previously noted, in most cases this is part of a larger job of being a pet nutritionist rather than being only a dog food tester. Remember that most Americans do love their pets and there is nothing that most people won't do for them so you can potentially make a business out of recommending and selling assorted dog foods if you get turned down by Purina for the job of
The best place to start is with a Google search for taste testers in your area. 1  Consumer taste testers get paid approximately $15/hour or up, but sometimes are paid per test, instead of per hour. 2  If you know of a specific organization in your area, start your search on their website. 1 Before a taste test, the organization will send you information about the ingredients in the items you’ll be testing. 2  Review this information to ensure you won’t have an issue with any of them. 3  Some additional ways to prepare are included below: 4  Be on time, or a little early.
Instructions. Apply for position of food tester at any food manufacturing company. You must be at least 18 and have a high school education for an entry-level position. This involves tasting a sample of the food. Enjoy the food that you are testing. For example, if you apply to be a chocolate food tester, then you do need to like chocolate. You can sample many pieces of whatever food it is, so this is a very important consideration. Taste the food sample as part of your food tester duties. After you taste it, you must write a report on your findings. Sometimes you tell another person how it tastes, and that person writes the report. Take you job position very seriously.
Recipe testing is not always a fulltime job — unless you get hired by one of the major food companies or a related company — but if you are looking for part-time work and consider yourself a careful cook, it might be just the thing. Why Test a Recipe? A recipe is a scientific formula. Some food magazines employ recipe testers. Unfortunately, a number do not, as they accomplish the task in-house. Some do a little of both and farm out recipes. Send inquiries to as many food and shelter (i.e., Good Housekeeping) magazines as you can.
List of FREE Product Testing Companies: If you want to become a product tester and want to test products for money then you need to join survey panels that provide paid product testing opportunities. Below is a list of free product testing companies that I use to get free products to try and test at home. We highly recommend to join the below product testing companies. You need to verify your email id by clicking the confirmation link to get product testing invitations.
The term “taste tester” can be applied to a variety of different jobs. There are consumer taste testers, who help food manufacturers decide when a product is ready for the market. And there are what we’ll refer to as “professional” taste testers, which include food scientists and sensory analysts. 1 Before a taste test, the organization will send you information about the ingredients in the items you’ll be testing. 2  Review this information to ensure you won’t have an issue with any of them. 3  Some additional ways to prepare are included below: 4  Be on time, or a little early.
Working as a Dog Food Tester By Eric Hammer If you've looked at Fido's canned dog food and wondered if it tastes good or not, then you might just be interested in becoming a dog food tester. Yes, you read that right. Amongst weird jobs, dog food testers are definitely up there right along with breath odor evaluators and dice inspectors. Remember that most Americans do love their pets and there is nothing that most people won't do for them so you can potentially make a business out of recommending and selling assorted dog foods if you get turned down by Purina for the job of
Not ones to let pets suffer from unhealthy, tasteless food, Pet Food Testers evaluate the nutritional value of pet food and, yes, taste-test it. Pet Food Testers don’t spend every day sampling a cuisine fit for a pampered pooch, though (don’t worry, most Pet Food Testers spit it out instead of swallowing it). Most days, they’re writing reports and thinking up new ideas on how to put a nutritional spin on a new line of food