The glass tube of a thermometer usually contains mercury. Mercury is perfect to test temperature because it changes from a solid to liquid very easily. When the metal tip of the thermometer comes into contact with the material it is testing, it conducts heat energy to the mercury. It takes only 30 seconds for a digital thermometer to give you a reading because the heat-sensitive tip is able to accurately tell the computer chip inside what the temperature is. Your normal body temperature would be 98.6 °F on the Fahrenheit scale.
Full Definition of THERMOMETER. : an instrument for determining temperature; especially: one consisting of a glass bulb attached to a fine tube of glass with a numbered scale and containing a liquid (as mercury or colored alcohol) that is sealed in and rises and falls with changes of temperature. Words from the Greek metron have something to do with measuring. A thermo met e r is an instrument that measures temperature. A dia met e r is the measurement across the center of a circle. The metr ic system is a system used for measuring size, weight, and volume.
thermometer. n. 1. an instrument used to measure temperature, esp one in which a thin column of liquid, such as mercury, expands and contracts within a graduated sealed tube. See also clinical thermometer, gas thermometer, resistance thermometer, thermocouple, pyrometer. meat thermometer-a thermometer that is inserted into the center of a roast (with the top away from the heat source); used to measure how well done the meat is.
A medical thermometer, also known as a clinical thermometer, is used for measuring human body temperature. The tip of the thermometer is inserted into the mouth under the tongue (oral or sub-lingual temperature), under the armpit (axillary temperature), or into the rectum via the anus (rectal temperature). The traditional thermometer is a glass tube with a bulb at one end containing a liquid which expands in a uniform manner with temperature. The tube itself is narrow (capillary) and has calibration markings along it.
Word Root of THERMOMETER. The Greek word metron, meaning “ measure, ” gives us the root metr. Words from the Greek metron have something to do with measuring. A thermo met e r is an instrument that measures temperature. A dia met e r is the measurement across the center of a circle. The metr ic system is a system used for measuring size, weight, and volume.
It is the basis of the design and operation of thermometers. As the temperature of the liquid in a thermometer increases, its volume increases. The liquid is enclosed in a tall, narrow glass (or plastic) column with a constant cross-sectional area. The increase in volume is thus due to a change in height of the liquid within the column. Temperature and Thermometers. We all have a feel for what temperature is. We even have a shared language that we use to qualitatively describe temperature. The water in the shower or bathtub feels hot or cold or warm.
The precision or resolution of a thermometer is simply to what fraction of a degree it is possible to make a reading. For high temperature work it may only be possible to measure to the nearest 10 °C or more. Clinical thermometers and many electronic thermometers are usually readable to 0.1 °C. The first person to put a scale on a thermoscope is variously said to be Francesco Sagredo or Santorio Santorio in about 1611 to 1613. The word thermometer (in its French form) first appeared in 1624 in La Recreation Récréation mathematique Mathématique. By, j leurechon who describes one with a scale of. 8 degrees
A thermometer is a device that measures the temperature of things. The name is made up of two smaller words: Thermo means heat and meter means to measure. You can use a thermometer to tell the temperature outside or inside your house, inside your oven, even the temperature of your body if you're sick. There is usually a bulb at the base of the thermometer with a long glass tube stretching out the top. Early thermometers used water, but because water freezes there was no way to measure temperatures less than the freezing point of water.
Old thermometers were all non-registering thermometers. That is, the thermometer did not hold the temperature after it was moved to a place with a different temperature. Determining the temperature of a pot of hot liquid required the user to leave the thermometer in the hot liquid until after reading it. The first person to put a scale on a thermoscope is variously said to be Francesco Sagredo or Santorio Santorio in about 1611 to 1613. The word thermometer (in its French form) first appeared in 1624 in La Recreation Récréation mathematique Mathématique. By, j leurechon who describes one with a scale of. 8 degrees
Inside the glass tube of a thermometer, the liquid has no place to go but up when the temperature is hot and down when the temperature is cold. Numbers are placed alongside the glass tube that mark the temperature when the line is at that point. The other type of common thermometer is a spring thermometer. There is usually a bulb at the base of the thermometer with a long glass tube stretching out the top. Early thermometers used water, but because water freezes there was no way to measure temperatures less than the freezing point of water.