1 Combining e-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your refund. 2  About three out of four taxpayers who file receive a tax refund. 3  Last year the average refund was about $2,700. 4  Payment options. 5  If you owe tax, you can e-file early and set an automatic payment date anytime on or before the April 15 due date. Most taxpayers – more than 80 percent – file electronically. The IRS has processed more than 1 billion individual tax returns safely and securely since the nationwide debut of electronic filing in 1990. Fewer people file a paper tax return every year. Here are five good reasons to e-file your tax return:
The IRS has also processed more tax returns this year than at the same point last year, up nearly 11%. A month into filing season, the government has received nearly 40% of the total returns it expects to receive for 2014. 
Average Tax Refund by State. Taxpayers residing in Connecticut, Nevada and Texas receive the highest average federal tax refunds, according to IRS data. The smallest refund checks go to mailboxes in rural states: Montana, Maine, Vermont and North Dakota
1 If you choose direct deposit, your refund goes directly into your bank account. 2  Combining e-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your refund. 3  About three out of four taxpayers who file receive a tax refund. 4  Last year the average refund was about $2,700. 5  Payment options. Most taxpayers – more than 80 percent – file electronically. The IRS has processed more than 1 billion individual tax returns safely and securely since the nationwide debut of electronic filing in 1990. Fewer people file a paper tax return every year. Here are five good reasons to e-file your tax return:
1 20% - What is the average length of time it takes to get your refund anticipation check from h r block? 2  34% - Average time it takes for fed refund to be released with a ga state tax offest being in place? The average waiting period for the refund is 21 days.... 0. 0. The average waiting period for the refund is 21 days, this is after the return has been accepted by IRS.
That amount is $2,400. The average income tax refund is up nearly 10% from a year ago, reflecting tax credits included in last year's economic stimulus package, according to IRS Commissioner Douglas Shulman.
If you haven’t tried IRS e-file before, now is the time. Most taxpayers – more than 80 percent – file electronically. The IRS has processed more than 1 billion individual tax returns safely and securely since the nationwide debut of electronic filing in 1990. Fewer people file a paper tax return every year. Here are five good reasons to e-file your tax return:
WASHINGTON — By the end of February, more than 48 million tax refunds had been issued the IRS today announced – an increase of 5.6 percent compared to the same time last year. As of Feb. 28, the average refund this year is $3,034, up 3 percent compared to the average refund amount for the same time last year. Almost 88 percent of refunds to date have been directly deposited into the accounts of taxpayers, saving them time and a trip to the bank. The number of returns filed electronically is up slightly from the same time last year however, the number of taxpayers filing from home computers is up 7.5 percent. At the end of the fourth week of the filing season, the IRS had received almost 40 percent of the returns it expects to receive during 2014
1 36% - What is the average time that it may take to get a federal tax refund this year done by mail? 2  20% - What is the average length of time it takes to get your refund anticipation check from h r block? 3  34% - Average time it takes for fed refund to be released with a ga state tax offest being in place? The average waiting period for the refund is 21 days.... 0. 0. The average waiting period for the refund is 21 days, this is after the return has been accepted by IRS.