100 years ago there were thought to be 315,000 orangutans in the wild. There are now less than 6,600 left in Sumatra, and less than 54,000 in Borneo. It is thought that Sumatran orangutans may be the first Great Apes to become extinct unless people help to protect them. Orangutans sleep in nests in the trees which they make every day from leaves and branches. Orangutans are arboreal, which means that they spend nearly all their time in the trees and hardly ever come to the ground.
The orangutans (also spelled orang-utan, orangutang, or orang-utang) are the two exclusively Asian species of extant great apes. Native to Indonesia and Malaysia, orangutans are currently found in only the rainforests of Borneo and Sumatra. The orangutan was first described scientifically in the Systema Naturae of Linnaeus as Simia satyrus. The populations on the two islands were classified as subspecies until 1996, when they were elevated to full species status, and the three distinct populations on Borneo were elevated to subspecies.
The name orangutan (also written orang-utan, orang utan, orangutang, and ourang-outang) is derived from the Malay and Indonesian words orang meaning person and hutan meaning forest, thus person of the forest. Orang Hutan was originally not used to refer to apes, but to forest-dwelling humans. The orangutan was first described scientifically in the Systema Naturae of Linnaeus as Simia satyrus. The populations on the two islands were classified as subspecies until 1996, when they were elevated to full species status, and the three distinct populations on Borneo were elevated to subspecies.
Orangutan symbolizes difficulties on your way, but they won’t be as serious as it may seem to you at the first glance. The devil isn’t as dark as it is painted. Before pressing the panic button and asking for help, try to solve these problems by yourself. You’ll cope with them! They are within your depth. 
An orangutan is a member of the ape family with reddish brown hair. They live in parts of Borneo and Sumatra. The name orangutan is derived from the Malay word meaning person … of the forest. They very rarely leave the tree tops and feed on fruit and other food sources found in the top of the trees like young birds and small animals making them omnivor. An Orangutan is a large long armed ape inhabiting the forest of Java and Sumatra. The word is of Malay origin meaning 'man of the woods'.
Orangutan. The orangutans are the two exclusively Asian species of extant great apes. Native to Indonesia and Malaysia, orangutans are currently found in only the rainforests of Borneo and Sumatra. Classified in the genus Pongo, orangutans were considered to be one species. Wiktionary (2.00 / 1 vote) Rate this definition: orangutan (Noun). An arboreal anthropoid ape genus Pongo consisting of two species, Pongo pygmaeus of Borneo and Pongo abelii of Sumatra, having a shaggy reddish-brown coat, very long arms, and no tail.
Both orangutan species are considered to be Endangered, with the Sumatran orangutan being Critically Endangered. Human activities have caused severe declines in the populations and ranges of both species. Threats to wild orangutan populations include poaching, habitat destruction, and the illegal pet trade. The orangutan was first described scientifically in the Systema Naturae of Linnaeus as Simia satyrus. The populations on the two islands were classified as subspecies until 1996, when they were elevated to full species status, and the three distinct populations on Borneo were elevated to subspecies.
Orangutans are arboreal that means they live in… Where does a orangutan sleep? What do orangutans eat? How many men does a fully grown orangutan weigh as much as? An orangutan is as smart as a… There are only about 30,000 orangutans left in the world, this is about as many people that live in …. 
Alternatively Orangutan could be letting your know that your inner wisdom is trying to tell you something. You need to get out of your head and into your heart in order to move forward toward your spiritual goal. Sometimes it’s as simple as loving and accepting yourself as you are. 