Bethany is a very prominent first name for females (#398 out of 4276, Top 9%) and also a very prominent last name for all people (#25398 out of 150436, Top 17%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Bethany for girls. Bethany was first listed in 1950-1959 and reached its top rank of #98 in the U.S. during the years 1980-1989, and is presently at #393. (2014 Birth Statistics). Shown below is a comparison of the popularity of Bethany and related names. Brittany (#456 a year ago) , Ann (#945) , Brittani, Brittny, Brittaney, Britany, Beth, Bethan, Bethzy and Britny are the popular related forms of Bethany (#393 a year ago) ranked in the Top 1000. From the New Testament description of life in the house, the name has rather domestic, cozy connotations. The name is popular with Roman Catholics, being bestowed in honor of Mary of Bethany, sister of Martha and Lazarus. Also a variant on the combined form of Beth and Ann.
For example, E. Nestle's Philologica Sacra (1896) suggests that Bethany is derived from the personal name Anaiah, while others have suggested it is a shortened version of Ananiah, a village of Bethel mentioned in the Book of Nehemiah (11:32). The village of Bethany is referenced in relation to five incidents in the New Testament, in which the word Bethany appears 11 times: 1  The raising of Lazarus from the dead-John 11:1-46. 2  The entry of Jesus into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday, which Jesus begins near Bethany-Mark 11:1 and Luke 19:29.
Origin of the name Bethany: Derived from the Hebrew Bet t'eina (house of figs). The name is that of a town near Jerusalem at the foot of the Mount of Olives where Jesus stayed during Holy Week before his crucifixion. Short: Beth. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. The spelling 'Bethany' is pretty plain. If you want to name your kid Bethany, go with a cuter spelling like 'Bethanie' or 'Bethanee' I'm 16. My name is Bethany, and I was named just before the name started to become common. Now it's everywhere.
Meaning & History. From the name of a biblical town, possibly derived from Hebrew בֵּית־תְּאֵנָה (beit-te'enah) meaning house of figs. In the New Testament the town of Bethany was the home of Lazarus and his sisters Mary and Martha. It has been in use as a rare given name in the English-speaking world since the 19th century, used primarily by Catholics in honour of Mary of Bethany.
Etymology of the name Bethany. The name Bethany is the English transliteration of the Greek name Bethania, which in turn comes from the Hebrew (not occurring) name Beth-aniah, which consists of two elements. The first part is identical to the common Hebrew word בית (bayit) meaning house: Abarim Publications Theological Dictionary. It's not clear how many towns named Bethany there are in the Bible, but it's one or two. The most famous Bethany was a village on the eastern slope of Mount Olivet, about three kilometers from Jerusalem (Luke 19:29, John 11:1).
The meaning of Bethany is  House of figs . Its origin is  Hebrew . Another meaning of Bethany is  House of the suffering . Its origin is  Aramaic . This name is mostly being used as a girls name. Last year it ranked 389th in the U.S. Social Security Administration list of most popular baby girl names. 
Meaning of name Bethany. Etymology: From the name of a biblical town, possibly derived from Hebrew (beit-te'enah) meaning house of figs. Saint : Origin: English. 
Biblical Meaning: The name Bethany is a Biblical baby name. In Biblical the meaning of the name Bethany is: The house of song, the house of affliction'. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 3. People with this name have a deep inner desire for a stable, loving family or community, and a need to work with others and to be appreciated. 
Bethany /beth-any/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced BETH-a-nee. It is of Hebrew origin. Possibly means house of figs. Biblical: the name of the village near Jerusalem where Jesus stayed during Holy Week, before going on to Jerusalem and crucifixion. From the New Testament description of life in the house, the name has rather domestic, cozy connotations. The name is popular with Roman Catholics, being bestowed in honor of Mary of Bethany, sister of Martha and Lazarus. Also a variant on the combined form of Beth and Ann.