For instance, mitochondria have an alternative genetic code with slight variations. The genetic code is a set of rules defining how the four-letter code of DNA is translated into the 20-letter code of amino acids, which are the building blocks of proteins. It is also important to note that the genetic code does not overlap, meaning that each nucleotide is part of only one codon-a single nucleotide cannot be part of two adjacent codons.
Gene therapy is an experimental technique that uses genes to treat or prevent disease. In the future, this technique may allow doctors to treat a disorder by inserting a gene into a patient’s cells instead of using drugs or surgery. Researchers are testing several approaches to gene therapy, including: Replacing a mutated gene that causes disease with a healthy copy of the gene. Inactivating, or “knocking out,” a mutated gene that is functioning improperly. Introducing a new gene into the body to help fight a disease.
Definition of DNA for Kids. : a large organic molecule that carries genetic information in the chromosomes and resembles a twisted ladder. 
Transcription. Definition. noun. It is the process of transcribing or making a copy of genetic information stored in a DNA strand into a complementary strand of RNA (messenger RNA or mRNA) with the aid of RNA polymerases. Supplement
Genomed. primers14. to locate all of the genes of an organism and locate them on chromosomesa. Genomeb. Bacterial genome. Testing Biotechnology Test | Quizlethttp://quizlet.com/...oice=on&ignore-case=1&ignore-punct=1&ignore-spaces=1&ignore-parenth=1&prompt-def=1&limit=30[3/18/2013 11:43:59 AM] c. cloning vectord. Mapping genomes15. DNA produced by combining DNA from different speciesa. pluripotentb. Genomec. recombinant DNAd. gene cloning. 
Gene duplication (or chromosomal duplication or gene amplification) is a major mechanism through which new genetic material is generated during molecular evolution. It can be defined as any duplication of a region of DNA that contains a gene. Gene duplications can arise as products of several types of errors in DNA replication and repair machinery as well as through fortuitous capture by selfish genetic elements.
Transcription is the first step of gene expression, in which a particular segment of DNA is copied into RNA by the enzyme RNA polymerase. It is the process of transcribing or making a copy of genetic information stored in a DNA strand into a complementary strand of RNA (messenger RNA or mRNA) with the aid of RNA polymerases.
Genes are made up of DNA. Each chromosome contains many genes. A gene is the basic physical and functional unit of heredity. Genes, which are made up of DNA, act as instructions to make molecules called proteins. In humans, genes vary in size from a few hundred DNA bases to more than 2 million bases. Every person has two copies of each gene, one inherited from each parent. Most genes are the same in all people, but a small number of genes (less than 1 percent of the total) are slightly different between people.
Gene expression: The translation of information encoded in a gene into protein or RNA structures that are present and operating in the cell. 