1 There will be 1 cup of remaining starter. 2  You can give this to a third friend, or you can seal and freeze this 1 cup to use in the future. 3  Or continue the cycle of friendship bread. 4  Since you have your starter, cover loosely and store at room temperature.
See how to make San Francisco’s famous sourdough bread starter. 1  Once you have made the starter, you will consider it Day One, and thus ignore step 1 in this recipe and proceed with step 2. 2  You can also freeze this starter in 1 cup measures for later use.
1 Remove 2 cups of starter and give 1 cup each to two friends, with the recipe below attached. 2  There will be 1 cup of remaining starter. 3  You can give this to a third friend, or you can seal and freeze this 1 cup to use in the future.
When you are ready to make a loaf of bread, simply pull the starter out, poor off the hooch and give your starter a feeding (1/4 cup starter (discard the rest), 1/4 cup filtered water, 1/4 cup flour). Leave out at room temperature for 8 hours and give your starter another feeding.
My sourdough starter is now ready for use. At this point you can make a fresh loaf of sourdough bread. After 2 weeks of storing and feeding your starter at room temperature, you will need to now store your sourdough starter in the refrigerator.
Look for the sour dough bread recipe to make use of this starter. There are two ways to make sour dough starter one without yeast where you feed the starter daily and this recipe where you just let the yeast do the work and let it sit for 3 or 4 days.
1) Up to 12 hours before beginning a recipe, stir the starter and discard 1 cup. Or give 1 cup to a friend, or use 1 cup to make waffles. However you do it, you want to get rid of 1 cup of starter. 2) Feed the remaining starter with 1/2 cup lukewarm water and 1 cup flour. 3) Let it sit at room temperature, covered, for 4 to 12 hours, till bubbly.
1 Day 10; stir in 1 cup flour, 1 cup sugar and 1 cup milk. 2  Remove 1 cup to make your first bread, give 2 cups to friends along with this recipe, and your favorite Amish Bread recipe. 3  Store the remaining 1 cup starter in a container in the refrigerator, or begin the 10 day process over again (beginning with step 2).