Bicester has a traceable history of over a thousand years and was recorded in the Domesday Book. Like Banbury further North, it is experiencing growth and prosperity from its proximity to the M40 motorway linking London with Birmingham via Oxford. Chiltern Railways runs daily service to Bicester North Station from London Marylebone (every 30 minutes) and Birmingham Moor Street Station (every hour). There is a regular taxi bus service to and from Bicester North Station which costs £1 each way.
Bicester (/ˈbɪstə/ BIS-tər) is a town and civil parish in the Cherwell district of northeastern Oxfordshire in England. This historic market centre is one of the fastest growing towns in Oxfordshire. By the end of the 13th century Bicester was the centre of a deanery of 33 churches. It is unclear when St Edburg's Church was rebuilt in stone, but the 12th century church seems to have had an aisleless cruciform plan.
detailed map of Bicester and near places. Welcome to the Bicester google satellite map! This place is situated in Oxfordshire County, South East, England, United Kingdom, its geographical coordinates are 51° 54' 0 North, 1° 9' 0 West and its original name (with diacritics) is Bicester. See Bicester photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Bicester in United Kingdom.
As Bicester is very close to the M40, many members come to the Gliding Club from these areas. The town of Bicester is 12 miles north east of Oxford, so it is a good idea to find Oxford on the map first. Bicester Airfield lies at the north east end of Bicester, about one mile from the town centre, off Skimmingdish Lane. 
Bicester is a market town located in the north-east of the English county of Oxfordshire, some miles north of the university town of Oxford. It has become a popular destination on account of its being the location of Bicester Village, a large factory / designer outlet shopping village (see below, Buy). Chiltern Railways runs daily service to Bicester North Station from London Marylebone (every 30 minutes) and Birmingham Moor Street Station (every hour). There is a regular taxi bus service to and from Bicester North Station which costs £1 each way.
Bicester Aerodrome, formerly RAF Bicester, is an airfield on the outskirts of the English town of Bicester in Oxfordshire. Throughout the war, RAF Bicester was used as a training centre, and in April 1940 became home to No. 13 Operational Training Unit RAF, under the control of RAF Bomber Command.
Bicester Visitor Information Guide. Bicester is a Historic Market Town in the Cherwell District of the county of Oxfordshire, situated approximately 12 miles North-East of Oxford. Bicester has a traceable history of over a thousand years and was recorded in the Domesday book. For-Accommodation in and around Bicester. For-Events in and around Bicester.
Bicester is a city/town with a small population in the state/region of Oxfordshire, England which is located in the continent/region of Europe. Cities, towns and places near Bicester include Steeple Claydon, Kidlington, Brackley and Deddington. The closest major cities include Coventry, Leicester, Birmingham and London. 
The town's nearest motorway is the M40 which has two junctions serving Bicester; junction 9 to the south which is an interchange for the A34 towards Oxford and A41 for Bicester and Aylesbury and junction 10 near Ardley to the north with the A43 towards Brackley. By the end of the 13th century Bicester was the centre of a deanery of 33 churches. It is unclear when St Edburg's Church was rebuilt in stone, but the 12th century church seems to have had an aisleless cruciform plan.
Bicester Tourist Information Centre is located in Bicester Village, where you can pick up a local historic trail guide that leads you through the town and market. Guided tours are available during the summer months. Bicester Village shopping mall is open every day, except Christmas Day. More Bicester Information. 