9. Whether the legal drinking age is 21 or 18, there are going to be problems related to alcohol. And making 21 the legal age to drink doesn’t solve that problem. As a matter of fact, this is one of the reason why we see so many alcohol related deaths among teens. Legal drinking age varies by country. Lets see some of the reasons as to why we think the legal drinking age in US should be 18 and not 21. We will start out with the one that almost everyone against the law seems to talk about.
Indiana University, Bloomington, IN 47405. The legal drinking age should be lowered to about 18 or 19 and young adults allowed to drink in controlled environments such as restaurants, taverns, pubs and official school and university functions. Among drinkers only, 32% of under age compared to 24% of legal age are heavy drinkers. Research from the early 1980s until the present has shown a continuous decrease in drinking and driving related variables which has parallel the nation's, and also university students, decrease in per capita consumption.
The legal drinking age should not be lowered to 18. I believe that the drinking age should not be lowered to 18 because if it was lowered to 18, they would still be able to drink; even if it is against the law. The government need to think about something more reasonable and support their decision. Drinking age should be 18 because.... Honestly, I'm 18 and I believe that it should be lowered. I'm in college and we go to frat parties in college to have the ability to drink alcohol but the risk there are worse than actually going to the bars it's easy for guys to ruffy girls.
Those under the age of 21 are more likely to be heavy -- sometimes called binge -- drinkers (consuming over 5 drinks at least once a week). For example, 22% of all students under 21 compared to 18% over 21 years of age are heavy drinkers. Among drinkers only, 32% of under age compared to 24% of legal age are heavy drinkers. Research from the early 1980s until the present has shown a continuous decrease in drinking and driving related variables which has parallel the nation's, and also university students, decrease in per capita consumption.
When it comes to the legal drinking age being 21 we are totally against it. Legal drinking age varies by country. Lets see some of the reasons as to why we think the legal drinking age in US should be 18 and not 21. We will start out with the one that almost everyone against the law seems to talk about. 1. An 18 year old in US has the right to vote, and serve in the military
Another reason why the drinking age should not be lowered is because it will not change anything. Say the drinking age is lowered from 21 to 18. Finally, 18 year olds will be satisfied and will pick up drinking heartily. However, children even younger than 18 will begin to abuse the newfound privilege of 18 year olds. They will be motivated by the same factors that fueled the 18 year olds to drink when the drinking age was 21. Lowering the drinking age will bring upon an endless loop of demand from the younger generations, and may eventually have a big impact on teen deaths and teens in general.
The first reason that the drinking age should not be lowered is the obvious health issue. Despite popular belief, the drinking age was not only set to prevent teens from drinking and making bad decisions. It was set because teenagers can develop serious health issues. They will be motivated by the same factors that fueled the 18 year olds to drink when the drinking age was 21. Lowering the drinking age will bring upon an endless loop of demand from the younger generations, and may eventually have a big impact on teen deaths and teens in general.
The most common age is 18, with 43 countries. Next most common is 16, with 13 countries including France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Spain and Switzerland among those. And even 10 have no legal drinking age, including China and Portugal. But the truth is that between 1985 and 1997, heavy alcohol use among people in the U.S., 17 years of age or younger, actually dropped by 65.9 percent. 
No. If the legal drinking age were lowered, it would pose threats to not only the drinkers themselves, but other people. Young people are notorious for binge drinking and this leads to many dangerous problems. Drunk-driving rates are highest among drinkers 21 to 25 years of age (23%). And this is just legal drinkers. Drinking age should be 18 because.... Honestly, I'm 18 and I believe that it should be lowered. I'm in college and we go to frat parties in college to have the ability to drink alcohol but the risk there are worse than actually going to the bars it's easy for guys to ruffy girls.