So RentSeeker.ca and our friends at Blue Chip Mortgage decided to take a look at what it actually costs and how much income you need to actually purchase a home in many cities across Canada. Check out the results presented here in our INFOGRAPH for the salary you need to purchase a home in cities across Canada: With housing prices across Canada seemingly on the constant rise, many Canadians feel left out of the “Canadian Dream” of owning their own home.
Down payment. Your down payment is another important factor in determining how much income you’ll need to buy a home. Consider the following loan scenario using a purchase price of $300,000 (assuming no other debts) and the current rates on Zillow Mortgage Marketplace. For every dollar of debt, you will need double that in income. So if you have a $300 car payment, you’ll need at least $600 per month or more in income to offset that debt. Debt erodes income, and less income translates to less purchasing power
Online mortgage company HSH.com recently estimated the salaries needed to afford a house in 25 metropolitan areas across the United States. Because, the cost of real estate varies across cities and regions — you need to be making about four times as much money in San Diego as in Cincinnati to afford a house. 
How high does your income need to be to buy a home in Canada? The salary range is wide: In Trois-Rivieres, rivières your salary would need to be39,379 39379 to buy a, home while In West vancouver your income would need to be320,932. 320932’here s a look at the approximate salary needed to afford the payments on an-average priced home in 28 markets Across. canada Here’s how much money you need to make to buy a house in your city. Financial Post Staff | March 20, 2015 | Last Updated: Mar 20 5:24 PM ET.
The Mortgage Required Income calculator will determine how much income you need to qualify for a mortgage. This calculator will also allow you to figure out how different interest rates can affect the income that will be required to qualify for the mortgage. Javascript is required for this calculator. 
Impact of debt. For every dollar of debt, you will need double that in income. So if you have a $300 car payment, you’ll need at least $600 per month or more in income to offset that debt. Debt erodes income, and less income translates to less purchasing power
Average-income families can no longer afford a detached house in more than a quarter of Canada’s largest cities, according to an analysis carried out by The Huffington Post Canada. The average of the mortgage experts’ estimates came to $460,000 — that’s what you can borrow, assuming a household income of $87,000, a 25-year amortization period, a 5-per-cent down payment, no other debts and current mortgage rates.
Job search site Workopolis crunched the numbers and determined -- to no one’s surprise -- that Vancouverites need more income than anyone to buy a house. At the other end of the spectrum are Halifax and Winnipeg, the only major cities where you can buy an average house with less than $60,000 in annual income. Oh, and then there's also a four-bedroom home for the property's manager to live in. This record-breaking Calgary condo sale sadly means it's no longer available, but what a buy! The two-storey, two-bedroom property boasts a high-speed elevator and 2,000-square-foot terrace.