Definition of Jargon. Jargon is a literary term that is defined as a use of specific phrases and words by writers in a particular situation, profession or trade. These specialized terms are used to convey hidden meanings accepted and understood in that field. Jargon examples are found in literary and non-literary pieces of writing. Jargon, on the other hand, is broadly associated with a subject, occupation or business that makes use of standard words or phrases frequently comprising of abbreviations e.g. HTH, LOL. However, unlike slang, its terms are developed and composed deliberately for the convenience of a specific section of society.
It will look like this: English Literature Dictionary / Glossary for Students. All terms in this dictionary are bookmarked and it is possible to place a link to any term that will then open the definition in a new page from your own site by using the following text. 
For other uses, see Jargon (disambiguation) . Jargon is a type of language that is used in a particular context and may not be well understood outside of it. The context is usually a particular occupation (that is, a certain trade, profession, or academic field), but any ingroup can have jargon. Most jargon is technical terminology, involving terms of art or industry terms, with particular meaning within a specific industry.
Literary Devices and Terms. Literary Devices refers to the typical structures used by writers in their works to convey his or her messages in a simple manner to the readers. When employed properly, the different literary devices help readers to appreciate, interpret and analyze a literary work. Below is a list of literary devices with detailed definition and examples. 1  A. 2  B.
jar•gon. 1. the language, esp. the vocabulary, peculiar to a particular trade, profession, or group: medical jargon. 2. unintelligible talk or writing; gibberish; babble. 3. pidgin. 4. language that is characterized by uncommon or pretentious vocabulary and convoluted syntax and is often vague in meaning. 5. to jargonize
literature. noun lit·er·a·ture \ˈli-tə-rə-ˌchu̇r, ˈli-trə-ˌchu̇r, ˈli-tə(r)-ˌchu̇r, -chər, -ˌtyu̇r, -ˌtu̇r\. Tweet. : written works (such as poems, plays, and novels) that are considered to be very good and to have lasting importance. : books, articles, etc., about a particular subject. : printed materials (such as booklets, leaflets, and brochures) that provide information about something.
Definition and Examples of Literary Terms. Literary Devices refers to the typical structures used by writers in their works to convey his or her messages in a simple manner to the readers. When employed properly, the different literary devices help readers to appreciate, interpret and analyze a literary work. Below is a list of literary devices with detailed definition and examples. 1  A. 2  B.