A predicate adjective is a subject complement, a word or group of words that follows a linking verb or verb phrase such as is, am, were, smell, feel, taste, look, sound, have been, and did seem. 
Definition. A predicate adjective is an adjective that is used to predicate an attribute of the subject. 
Predicate Adjectives Examples. Predicate Adjectives. You already know that some verbs are called linking verbs, and they link the subject of the sentence to words or information that renames or describes the subject.
(with Examples). A predicate adjective is an adjective that follows a linking verb and modifies (i.e., refers back to) the subject of the linking verb. A predicate adjective contrasts with an attributive adjective, which typically sits immediately before the noun it modifies. For example: Below are some examples of predicate adjectives. In these examples, the predicate adjective is shaded and the subject being modified is in bold.
A predicate adjective, subject complement is the adjective that follows a linking verb; it is normally an adjective or a noun that renames or defines in some way the subject. The verb 'was' can be followed by a predicate noun or a predicate adjective. Verbs, adjectives, and nouns are different parts of speech. A linking verb connects … the subject to a predicate adjective or a predicate nominative (subject complements). An easy was to identify a linking verb is that it acts as an equals sign. I am happy.
1 The subject of the sentence is he. 2  The verb is is a linking verb. 3  The noun husband is a predicate nominative and the adjective content is a predicate adjective. 4  Both types of subject complements follow a single linking verb. 1 The noun husband is a predicate nominative and the adjective content is a predicate adjective. 2  Both types of subject complements follow a single linking verb. 3  Contemporary grammarians view the entire phrase a house husband and quite content as a single subject complement
A predicate noun (or predicate nominative) is the noun or a pronoun following a linking verb that restates or stands for the subject. A predicate adjective is the adjective following a linking verb which modifies (describes) the subject of the sentence. Both are called subject complements. A linking verb is a verb that acts as an equals sign, the object is a form of the subject. Verbs, adjectives, and nouns are different parts of speech. A linking verb connects … the subject to a predicate adjective or a predicate nominative (subject complements). An easy was to identify a linking verb is that it acts as an equals sign. I am happy.
Adjectives can function as predicate adjectives, meaning that they can follow a linking verb and provide information that describes the subject of the sentence. A predicate adjective can be a single adjective, or it can be a phrase that includes an adjective and any modifiers. You already know that some verbs are called linking verbs, and they link the subject of the sentence to words or information that renames or describes the subject.
A linking verb wouldn't be a predicate adjective or predicate noun (predicate nominative). Verbs, adjectives, and nouns are different parts of speech. A linking verb connects … the subject to a predicate adjective or a predicate nominative (subject complements). An easy was to identify a linking verb is that it acts as an equals sign. I am happy.