Neuropathic pain is pain caused by damage or disease affecting the somatosensory nervous system. Neuropathic pain may be associated with abnormal sensations called dysesthesia or pain from normally non-painful stimuli (allodynia). It may have continuous and/or episodic (paroxysmal) components. The latter resemble stabbings or electric shocks. Thus, neuropathic pain may be divided into peripheral neuropathic pain, central neuropathic pain, or mixed (peripheral and central) neuropathic pain.
Central sensitization. With the induction of central sensitization in somatosensory pathways with increases in synaptic efficacy and reductions in inhibition, a central amplification occurs enhancing the pain response to noxious stimuli in amplitude, ... Apart from changes in subjective pain measures, the consequences of central sensitization can also be detected using objective biomarkers. These include long-term changes in nociceptive withdrawal reflexes [ 24 ] and increases in cortical event related potential amplitudes [ 240 ].
Central sensitization is a condition of the nervous system that is associated with the development and maintenance of chronic pain. When central sensitization occurs, the nervous system goes through a process called “wind-up” and gets regulated in a persistent state of high reactivity. This persistent, or regulated, state of reactivity subsequently comes to maintain pain even after the initial injury might have healed. The onset of pain is often associated with subsequent development of conditions such as depression, fear-avoidance, anxiety and other stressors. The stress of these responses can, in turn, further exacerbate the reactivity of the nervous system, leading to central sensitization.
Up to 7% to 8% of the European population is affected, and in 5% of persons it may be severe. Neuropathic pain may result from disorders of the peripheral nervous system or the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord). Thus, neuropathic pain may be divided into peripheral neuropathic pain, central neuropathic pain, or mixed (peripheral and central) neuropathic pain.
Treatments for chronic pain syndromes that involve central sensitization typically target the central nervous system or the inflammation that corresponds with central sensitization. These are antidepressants and anticonvulsant medications, and cognitive behavioral therapy. The onset of pain is often associated with subsequent development of conditions such as depression, fear-avoidance, anxiety and other stressors. The stress of these responses can, in turn, further exacerbate the reactivity of the nervous system, leading to central sensitization.
Pain hypersensitivity is a feature of several common disorders of the gastro-intestinal tract including irritable bowel syndrome, non-cardiac chest pain and chronic pancreatitis, that all appear to have a central sensitization component. A majority of IBS patients have both rectal and somatic hypersensitivity [ 249 ]. Apart from changes in subjective pain measures, the consequences of central sensitization can also be detected using objective biomarkers. These include long-term changes in nociceptive withdrawal reflexes [ 24 ] and increases in cortical event related potential amplitudes [ 240 ].
Neuropathic pain is in its most typical form a pain that occurs after injury to nerves or to sensory pathways in the spinal cord or brain. When a lesion occurs, it may cause sensory loss in the innervation territory corresponding to the damaged nerves or the peripheral projections of central nervous system structures. Neuropathic pain refers to a specific pain syndrome characterized by pain and sensory abnormalities in body parts that have lost their normal peripheral innervation or sensory representation. They are to be distinguished from other types of pain because of differences in the underlying pathophysiology and treatment.
Central Sensitization is an increase in the excitability of neurons within the central nervous system starting at the spinal cord level. Normal inputs from everyday experiences such as touch are amplified to produce abnormally painful responses. Central Sensitization is a major cause of pain hypersensitivity. Central Sensitization plays a key role in the pathophysiology of a number of chronic pain conditions such as neuropathic pain. Central Sensitization can also be a consequence of dysfunctional pain processing such as fibromyalgia, where somehow normal neural inputs from mechanotransducers get diverted into the pain pathway. The underlying mechanisms of Central Sensitization are complex and not fully understood.