English name. In English, the name Joanna means-from the name joanne. Other origins for the name Joanna include-English, Hebrew, French.The name Joanna is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-from the name joanne. Origin-England. Other origins for the name Joanna include-English, Hebrew, French.The name Joanna is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning
Joanna is a very popular first name for women (#324 out of 4276, Top 8%) but a rare last name for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Joanna for girls. Joanna reached its apex rank of #137 in the U.S. during 1980-1989, and is at #327 currently. 
Sometimes in modern English Joanna is reinterpreted as a compound of the two names Jo and Anna, and therefore given a spelling like JoAnna, Jo-Anna, or Jo Anna. However, the original name Joanna is a single unit, not a compound. The names Hannah, Anna, Anne, Ann are etymologically related to Joanna just the same: they are derived from Hebrew חַנָּה Ḥannāh 'grace' from the same verbal root meaning 'to be gracious'.
Origin of the name Joanna: Middle Latin feminine form of Joannes (God is gracious). The name is derived from the Greek Iōannes, a derivative of the Hebrew Yehanan, a short form of Yehohanan, which is from yehōhānān (Yahweh is gracious). Personal experiences with the name Joanna: | Edit. --My name is Joanna, too, and I think it's a great name. It's a bit uncommon, but everyone has heard of it and they don't give me a weird look when I introduce myself.
Look up Joanna in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Joanna is a feminine given name deriving from Koine Greek ἰωάννα Iōanna from Hebrew יוֹחָנָה Yoḥānnāh yôḥānnāh 'Meaning god is'. gracious The names Hannah, Anna, Anne, Ann are etymologically related to Joanna just the same: they are derived from Hebrew חַנָּה Ḥannāh 'grace' from the same verbal root meaning 'to be gracious'.
Meaning & History. English and Polish form of Latin Iohanna, which was derived from Greek ιωαννα (Ioanna) , the feminine form of Ioannes (see JOHN). This is the spelling used in the English New Testament, where it belongs to a follower of Jesus who is regarded as a saint. In the Middle Ages in England it was used as a Latinized form of Joan (the usual feminine form of John) and it became common as a given name in the 19th century. Expand Name Links.
Hebrew Meaning: The name Joanna is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Joanna is: Gift from God. American Meaning: The name Joanna is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Joanna is: Gift from God. French Meaning: The name Joanna is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Joanna is: God's gift. Biblical Meaning: The name Joanna is a Biblical baby name. In Biblical the meaning of the name Joanna is: Grace or gift of the Lord.
Joanna is the English/Latinate female equivalent of John. The Latin Iohannes (John) and Iohanna (Joanna) are ultimately derived from the Hebrew “Yochanan” meaning “Yahweh is gracious” or “God is merciful, generous” (the name John first appears in the Old Testament in the person of one of King David’s mighty men.
The name Joanna is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Joanna is: Feminine of John. Latin Meaning: The name Joanna is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Joanna is: God is gracious. In French the meaning of the name Joanna is: God's gift. Biblical Meaning: The name Joanna is a Biblical baby name. In Biblical the meaning of the name Joanna is: Grace or gift of the Lord.