The right atrioventricular valve is the tricuspid valve. The left atrioventricular valve is the bicuspid, or mitral, valve. The valve between the right ventricle and pulmonary trunk is the pulmonary semilunar valve. The valve between the left ventricle and the aorta is the aortic semilunar valve. When the ventricles contract, atrioventricular valves close to prevent blood from flowing back into the atria. When the ventricles relax, semilunar valves close to prevent blood from flowing back into the ventricles. 
The semilunar valves (pulmonary valve and aortic valve) are one-way valves that separate the ventricles from major arteries. The aortic valve separates the left ventricle from the aorta, while the pulmonary valve separates the right ventricle from the pulmonary artery. From the right ventricle, blood flows through the pulmonary valve to the lungs via the pulmonary arteries (deoxygenated blood). In the lungs the blood becomes more red in color as it is oxygenated. Blood returns to the heart via the pulmonary veins (oxygenated blood) to the left atrium.
Atrioventricular valves shut to prevent backflow back into atria 8. Ventricles contract (ventricular systole) 9. Blood passes out into arteries leaving the heart through open semilunar valves 10. Semilunar valves shut to prevent backflow. 1. Relaxation of Ventricles and atria. 2. Blood enters atria from veins returning to heart 3. Atria fill with blood 4. Atria contract (atrial systole) 5. Blood passes into ventricles 6. Through atrioventricilar valves 7
The valve between the left ventricle and aorta is called the aortic valve and the valve between the pulmonary artery and right ventricle is called the pulmonary valve. The heart has two types of valves: the atrioventricular (AV) and semilunar. The semilunar valves open to let blood pass out of the ventricles. The right ventricle pumps into the pulmonary artery, which leads to the lungs, and the left ventricle empties into the aorta, a main artery that distributes oxygen rich blood to the rest of the body. Ad.
The right atrium pumps blood through the right atrioventricular (tricuspid) valve to the right ventricle. From the right ventricle, blood flows through the pulmonary valve to the lungs via the pulmonary arteries (deoxygenated blood). In the lungs the blood becomes more red in color as it is oxygenated. Blood returns to the heart via the pulmonary veins (oxygenated blood) to the left atrium.
The semilunar valves (SV) are two valve structures that sit between the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery and between the left ventricle and the aorta. The flaps of the valves open and close to allow the unidirectional flow of blood out of the heart, while preventing backflow of blood. The semilunar valves open to let blood pass out of the ventricles. The right ventricle pumps into the pulmonary artery, which leads to the lungs, and the left ventricle empties into the aorta, a main artery that distributes oxygen rich blood to the rest of the body. Ad.
The atrioventricular valves close and the semilunar valves open. The de-oxygenated blood is pumped into the pulmonary artery. The pulmonary valve prevents the blood from flowing back into the right ventricle. The pulmonary artery carries the blood to the lungs. 
Cardiac Cycle Diastole Phase Early Diastole Ventricles relax. Semilunar valves close. Atrioventricular valves open. Ventricles fill with blood. Mid Diastole Atria and Ventricles are relaxed. Semilunar valves are closed. Atrioventricular valves are open. Ventricles continue to fill with blood. Late Diastole SA node contracts. Atria contract. Ventricles fill with more blood. Contraction reaches AV nod