If you purchased your AVG License Renewal or Upgrade through an AVG Authorized Distributor, Partner or Reseller, you will have received a Renewal Upgrade Key. 
Changing the licence number on all AVG clients. If you want to change the AVG License Number for all computers in the network, please do the following: 1  Run AVG Admin Console. 2  On the left navigation tree expand Licenses, and then click Shared settings. 3  Double-click Shared settings in the Shared settings area. 4  Enter the new license number, and then press ENTER. You can reactivate the AVG Admin Server with the new AVG License Number as follows: 1  Run the AVG Admin Server Monitor. 2  Click Server settings, and then on the General tab, click Change.
Switch to AVG Free. 1  Open Start-Control Panel, and then click Programs and Features. 2  In the list of installed products select AVG, and then click Uninstall. 3  Click the option Switch to AVG AntiVirus FREE. 4  Wait for the installation to finish, and then restart your computer. 5  Your AVG will run as a FREE version now. 1 Open Start-Control Panel, and then click Programs and Features. 2  In the list of installed products select AVG, and then click Uninstall. 3  Click the option Switch to AVG AntiVirus FREE. 4  An AVG installer will run, downgrading your AVG to a FREE version. 5
Please enter your email address below and we will send you an email with all your license numbers. NOTE: If you purchased AVG Protection, Performance or Ultimate, please enter your email address and password into AVG Zen to activate your product. For instructions, please follow the article Activate AVG Protection, Performance or Ultimate. This form will send up to 10 AVG License Numbers to the address you specify. If more than 10 license numbers are registered under your email address, please contact AVG Customer Services for assistance.
Switch to AVG Free. 1  Open Start-Control Panel, and then click Programs and Features. 2  In the list of installed products select AVG, and then click Uninstall. 3  Click the option Switch to AVG AntiVirus FREE. 4  An AVG installer will run, downgrading your AVG to a FREE version. 1 Open Start-Control Panel, and then click Programs and Features. 2  In the list of installed products select AVG, and then click Uninstall. 3  Click the option Switch to AVG AntiVirus FREE. 4  An AVG installer will run, downgrading your AVG to a FREE version. 5  Wait for the installation to finish, and then restart your computer.
Hello. We have several AVG SMB 2012 clients which have an outdated license key. We've got a new license key, but I cannot find a way to update the client directly as this information is read only. I'm also having problem changing the AVG remote admin server address on the same clients. I've tried searching the registry and the program folder files for this information without success. Edit the '.bat' file and enter your AVG licence after the = sign: avgsetlicx.exe /set=****-*****. The password for the attached file is your login address. Keep the .bat and .exe file in the same folder and run the bat file to update the licence number.
AVG nicely comes up and asks for the new key but seems a little confused and unable to verify that this is a valid license key. The next step is running the add/remove programs (click start, run and type appwiz.cpl) - right click on AVG when the list populates and select change. Then do a repair install of AVG. The first thing it asks for is the new license key and it seemed happy to take it this time. ok, rinse and repeat 8 times. What fun.