California Occupational Safety and Health (OSHA) has served notice on Disneyland over three attractions, which led to their shut-down yesterday. In 2006, Disney agreed to make changes to the staff areas at the park, and the OSHA notice apparently related to lack of progress on these promises. Disneyland forced to close attractions by OSHA [The Disney Blog/John Frost]. Wisconsin’s Gravedigger Candles makes beeswax candles cast from a real human spine, where each vertabra burns for about three hours. Comes in large ($36.80), medium ($25.30) and small ($13.80).
View Video. Escape to Disney’s Typhoon Lagoon water park for a storm of fun in the sun! Snorkel with sharks, stingrays and tropical fish in the coral reef. Plunge down rushing rapids, sunbathe on the sandy beach and glide down the lazy river on a relaxing raft ride
Oliver VanDervoort. Disneyland has announced that they have shut down three rides at the park over safety concerns. Among the rides that were temporarily taken offline was the ultra-popular Space Mountain attraction. The park has run into a spate of trouble over the last few months. Disneyland actually only closed the Matterhorn for about one day. The citations were issued on Friday and that particular ride was closed on Saturday and reopened today. It isn’t clear how long the other rides might be shut down.
Disney's Typhoon Lagoon is a water theme park located at the Walt Disney World Resort in Lake Buena Vista, Florida and is one of two operating water parks at the resort. It is the second water park to open at the resort after Disney's River Country, which closed in 2001. The park, which opened on June 1, 1989, is home to one of the world's largest outdoor wave pools. The theme of the park is the Disney legend of a typhoon that wreaked havoc upon a formerly pristine tropical paradise
ANAHEIM, Calif. (KTLA) — Space Mountain is one of Disneyland’s most popular attractions, but in recent days, some park visitors didn’t even want to look at it. In a statement, a Disneyland spokesperson said: “We constantly strive to maintain a safe work environment for our cast members and contractors — and we are reviewing certain protocols.”. The two other rides that were shut down were the Matterhorn and California Adventure’s Soarin’ Over California. The Matterhorn has since been re-opened, but Space Mountain and Soarin’ Over California remain closed. It’s unclear when they will be re-opened. –Chip Yost, KTLA News
UPDATED: Two rides remain closed at the Anaheim park on Monday. Three rides at the Disneyland resort in Anaheim -- Space Mountain, the Matterhorn and Soarin' Over California -- were closed on Saturday after the park received a safety citation, the Los Angeles Times reports. 
Across from Discovery Islands sits River Country, which has a familiar story, unwanted visitors and all. Disney's first water park opened in 1976, but was shut down in 2001 for maintenance, never to reopen again. Apparently, creepy banjo music still plays to whatever critters have now taken over River Country. 
Disneyland is a theme park in Anaheim, California conceived by Walt Disney. This is a list of attractions – rides, shows, shops and parades – that have appeared at the park but have permanently closed. Character meets and atmosphere entertainment (e.g., roving musicians) are not listed. Also not listed are permanently closed attractions from Disney California Adventure.