Best Answer: the full saying is {She/he/you looks like} the cat who ate the canary, meaning happy and possibly a little bit smug. Source(s): tnr_lady · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. If you “look like you ate/swallowed the canary”, then you look like you’re up to something but trying to hide the fact. People around you can tell you’re hiding (or not doing a very good job of hiding) something.
If you think about it, a cat that ate its owners’ canary — or other pet bird — while they were away would look guilty and like it was trying to hide something (i.e., eating the pet bird) when they got home, which would give the cat away. If you “look like you ate/swallowed the canary”, then you look like you’re up to something but trying to hide the fact. People around you can tell you’re hiding (or not doing a very good job of hiding) something.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. 'Like the cat that ate the canary'. The cat is smug and satisfied, having filled her belly with your prize canary. She cares not that you are angry at her, only that her belly is full. Yet she may try to appear innocent so that she can digest said bird in peace without your wrath.
I stood there looking like the cat that ate the canary. . . . But he knows me too well and pondered out loud what I had been up to. ( 1 idiomatic) A person whose appearance and behavior suggest guilt mixed with other qualities, such as satisfaction or feigned nonchalance. Daley said that Tietjen, who lives in Middle Island, had the  cat who ate the canary  look when he was pulled over. The 32-year-old driver was apologetic, and never tried to dispute the ticket.
cat that ate the canary. ( 1 idiomatic) A person who appears self-satisfied or smug, especially while concealing something mischievous, prohibited, or private. 2  1910, Cotton Bulls Stand Shock of Deliveries, New York Times, 30 Apr., p. 2, Daley said that Tietjen, who lives in Middle Island, had the  cat who ate the canary  look when he was pulled over. The 32-year-old driver was apologetic, and never tried to dispute the ticket.
QUOTATION: That's what the cat said to the canary when he swallowed him: You'll be all right.. ATTRIBUTION: Alvah Bessie, Ranald MacDougall, and Lester Cole. Raoul Walsh. Mr. Williams (Henry Hull), Objective Burma, having been assured he'll be all right on his first parachute jump. look like the cat that ate the canary. Also, look like the cat that swallowed the canary. Appear smug and self-satisfied. For example, After she hit her third winning shot, Jeannie looked
like the cat that ate/got/swallowed the canary. — used to say that someone looks very proud or satisfied about something he or she has done. After pointing out his teacher's mistake, he smiled like the cat that ate the canary. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. 