Best Answer: soda does not naturally have caffeine. it is added in. where it comes from depends on the company. natural caffeine doesn't necessarily make it good for you. if it is in large quantities or a strong form it could make your heart beat irregularly. Source(s): 
Caffeine is one of the oldest forms of stimuli know to the world, it is an organic substance found primarily found in coffee beans. Many people don’t know that caffeine is actually a chemical formula and not a physical substance like coffee beans or tea leaves. It is estimated that 90% of the world has had some form of caffeine and keep using it. Since it gives you a small boost of energy some people have actually formed an addiction to caffeine that and they cannot go one day with out it or they will show signs of withdrawal.
Caffeine, by definition, is a drug that stimulates the central nervous system, causing increased heart rate and alertness. It is addictive and may cause side effects including headache, anxiety, dizziness, jitters, and heart problems. Many studies have evaluated the effects of caffeine on health. The studies are controversial and inconclusive. Remember, whether caffeine affects you depends on your diet, size, type of exercise you do and amount of caffeine you ingest regularly. Your reaction to caffeine is highly individual.
Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant of the methylxanthine class of psychoactive drugs. It is the world's most widely consumed psychoactive drug, but unlike many other psychoactive substances, it is legal and unregulated in nearly all parts of the world. Drinking four or more cups of coffee per day does not affect the risk of hypertension compared to drinking little or no coffee. However those who drink 1–3 cups per day may be at a slightly increased risk. Caffeine increases intraocular pressure in those with glaucoma but does not appear to affect normal individuals.
What is Caffeine? Caffeine is an ingredient that can be found naturally in the leaves, seeds or fruit of more than 60 plants worldwide and is well known for its stimulating effect. Some of the most commonly known sources of caffeine include coffee beans, tea leaves, cocoa beans, kola nuts, and guarana plants. 
It's caffeine in powder form. Caffeine is naturally in more than 60 plants, like coffee beans, tea leaves, and cacao, the FDA says. But man-made caffeine is also added to energy drinks and sold as powder or capsule supplements. For about $10, you can buy 100,000 milligrams of caffeine powder online.
It is therefore found in a wide range of food products including coffee, tea, cola, and chocolate. Caffeine is artificially added to many other products, including a variety of energy drinks. Many studies have evaluated the effects of caffeine on health. The studies are controversial and inconclusive. Remember, whether caffeine affects you depends on your diet, size, type of exercise you do and amount of caffeine you ingest regularly. Your reaction to caffeine is highly individual.
About 90 percent of Americans consume caffeine in one form or another every single day. More than half of all American adults consume more than 300 milligrams (mg) of caffeine every day, making it by far America's most popular drug. Many studies have evaluated the effects of caffeine on health. The studies are controversial and inconclusive. Remember, whether caffeine affects you depends on your diet, size, type of exercise you do and amount of caffeine you ingest regularly. Your reaction to caffeine is highly individual.
Post 2. Natural caffeine is still caffeine, and it can affect your heart. Coffee and tea, as well as guarana are natural caffeine, just like what's in your vitamin water, so it's best to stay away from all of them. Caffeine also prevents your body from absorbing calcium. Natural sources of caffeine are instances where caffeine, a chemical stimulant, occurs in nature — typically in the leaves or berries of different plants. Coffee beans and tea leaves are two of the most well known natural sources, but they are by no means the only ones.