The toxicity of the rhubarb plant does not need to scare you away from eating the stalk. The stalk is quite nutritious and can be used to make a variety of foods, including desserts, jams, jellies, sauces and juice. Rhubarb is also used medicinally for its potential to help treat gastrointestinal disorders, renal disorders and cancer, but studies have not proven its effectiveness Drugs.com reports. This will prevent contamination of the leaves onto the edible portion of the rhubarb. You should also wash the rhubarb stalks well before preparing them to eat. If you do ingest poisonous rhubarb leaves, call a doctor or Poison Control immediately.
Answer by Heliotrope. Confidence votes 30.2K. Rhubarb actually comes in several color varieties; from green to speckled pink to ruby red. It is safe to eat the stalks of green rhubarb, but never eat them if they have been frostbitten, and never ever eat the leaves of the rhubarb plant, as they are poisonous. Rhubarb leaves have oxylic acid in it in high amounts. Same as spinach and chard, only in lesser amounts. Oxylic acid leaches calcium out of the body, which is why your teeth feel raw after eating spinach and/or chard, cooked or worse, raw.
Rhubarb is a perennial vegetable, though it is generally used as a fruit in desserts and jams. You only eat the stalks, which have a rich tart flavor. The leaves of this plant are poisonous, so be sure that they are not ingested. Rhubarb is easy to grow, but needs cool weather to thrive. It's fine to eat the rhubarb. If your older plants have mostly stems of green, we'd suggest that you replant the rhubarb crowns into more fertile soil in the winter when it's dormant. When it comes to rhubarb, you want to divide the plant every 3 to 6 years to keep it healthy.
Oxalates are contained in all parts of rhubarb plants, especially in the green leaves. There is some evidence that anthraquinone glycosides are also present and may be partly responsible. It is not clear as to the exact source of poisoning from rhubarb, possibly a result of both compounds. 
After you cut the stalks from the plant, cut the leaves from the stalk and throw them in the compost bin. The leaves of the rhubarb plant are poisonous and should never be eaten. That is all there is to harvesting rhubarb. Now that you know when and how to harvest rhubarb, you can enjoy these tasty stalks in a wide variety of recipes. 
Rhubarb can be eaten raw but because of its tartness, it is generally cooked and sweetened first. It can be sweetened with sugar, honey, syrup, or berry preserves. When cooking rhubarb do not use aluminum, iron or copper pans. Rhubarb has high acidity and will react with these types of metals. 
Most commonly, green rhubarb stalks on a rhubarb plant are the unripe stalks and will not be as sweet as ripe red stalks. While safe to eat, you may need to adjust the sugar in the recipe to accommodate the tart flavor of green stalks. The color of the pie will also have a paler green appearance. 
A slice of strawberry rhubarb pie may be your idea of a delicious treat and the stalks can be part of a nutritious diet. A rhubarb stalk is a deep red vegetable that resembles celery. Rhubarb has been used for centuries for medicinal purposes. It can be eaten as a vegetable or taken in supplement form. This will prevent contamination of the leaves onto the edible portion of the rhubarb. You should also wash the rhubarb stalks well before preparing them to eat. If you do ingest poisonous rhubarb leaves, call a doctor or Poison Control immediately.
The color of any particular rhubarb stalk will depend on both the cultivar, and how it was grown. You should treat it the same way, regardless of the color. So yes, green rhubarb is safe to eat, with the same caveats as apply to any rhubarb. Especially, don't eat the leaves. In On Food and Cooking (2004 edition), Harold McGee indicates that rhubarb tends to be about 1.5-2.0% acid by weight (mostly oxalic acid), which makes it quite tart. This is an inherent aspect of the vegetable.