(D) If the fiduciary is a trustee appointed by and accountable to the probate court, the fiduciary shall invest the trust's assets pursuant to the requirements and standards set forth in the Ohio Uniform Prudent Investor Act. When considered necessary by the probate court and not otherwise directed in the will, a bond, as provided by sections 2109.01 to 2109.58 of the Revised Code, shall be required in all trusts created by will and not fully discharged, on the petition of an interested person and after notice to the trustee.
1 A fiduciary is called an executor, if he or she is acting under the terms of a Will. 2  A fiduciary appointed to administer the estate of a decedent who had no Will is called an administrator. 3  Probate refers to the process by which a decedent s Will is recognized as valid by the Surrogate s Court. 1 In other states, this court may be known as the Probate Court. 2  Each county in the State of New York has its own Surrogate s Court. 3  The New York County Surrogate s Court is responsible for the estate of any person who died while domiciled in Manhattan. 4  Domicile is the permanent place where a decedent resided.
1 The Probate Fiduciary Panel is a list of attorneys available for Court appointment to serve as fiduciaries, counsel, guardian, guardian ad litem or visitors in estate proceedings, guardianship of the estates of minors proceedings, and intervention proceedings for incapacitated adults. 1 Persons who serve on the Fiduciary Panel of Attorneys may be appointed by the Court as a visitor. 2  In addition, a Visitors List of health care professionals is maintained by the Presiding Judge of the Probate Division. 3  Click here to see the list of persons currently serving on the Visitors List for the Probate Division.
The fiduciary as personal representative is an individual appointed by the probate court to administer the estate of a person who has died, referred to as a “decedent.” A personal representative will either act as an Executor if named in the will, or as an Administrator if not named in the will, or if there is no will. A fiduciary is a person who assumes responsibility for a position of trust. Fiduciaries serve by court appointment as guardians, conservators and personal representatives of estates. They also serve by agreement when engaged by a private family as trustees, representative payees.
1 All issues and information are brought before a probate court judge who decides if the person is incapacitated or in need of protection and, accordingly, appoints a conservator. 2  The appointed fiduciary is accountable to the court for his or her work. 1 A Conservatee is a person who is the subject of a conservatorship. 2  A Conservator of the Person is appointed by the court to assume responsibility for decisions regarding the health and welfare of a person.
1 The fiduciary as personal representative is an individual appointed by the probate court to administer the estate of a person who has died, referred to as a “decedent.” A personal representative will either act as an Executor if named in the will, or as an Administrator if not named in the will, or if there is no will. 1 A Conservatee is a person who is the subject of a conservatorship. 2  A Conservator of the Person is appointed by the court to assume responsibility for decisions regarding the health and welfare of a person.
1 The Fiduciary as Conservator is the person who is legally appointed to manage the Conservatee’s estate and/or person. 2  A Conservatorship is a legal tool to provide management for the financial and/or personal affairs of individuals deemed by the court to be physically or mentally incapacitated. 1 A Conservatee is a person who is the subject of a conservatorship. 2  A Conservator of the Person is appointed by the court to assume responsibility for decisions regarding the health and welfare of a person.
In New York State, the administration of a “DECEDENT’S “ (deceased person) estate comes under the jurisdiction of Surrogate’s Court. There are specific rules which must be followed by any fiduciary who is appointed to administer an estate. RESPONSIBILITY FOR ACCURACY: The petition must be signed by the fiduciary. The executor named in the will, or if there is no will, the decedent's spouse or next of kin takes control of and protects the decedent's property. No one may remove any property before the opening of the estate without an order from the court.
A Conservator is appointed by the probate court to manage the financial affairs of someone who is determined by the court to be unable to manage his or her own finances or property. The conservator manages the assets of the protected person for his or her benefit under the court’s supervision. In each county a public fiduciary is appointed by that county’s board of supervisors and must be licensed by the state. The public fiduciary is considered the fiduciary of last resort when there is no one else willing or capable of serving.