The first Vancouver Sun Run in 1985 started with approximately 3,700 participants, and has grown significantly since: 1  With over 39,000 finishers in 2006, it ranked as the 9th largest race in the world and the 3rd largest 10-km race, behind only the Peachtree Road Race in Atlanta and the Bolder Boulder in Boulder. In the aftermath of the bombings at the 2013 Boston Marathon, Vancouver Sun Run race organizers have petitioned runners to wear blue and yellow, the official Boston Marathon colours, in solidarity and remembrance of those killed and injured in Boston a week prior.
Race Information. The Vancouver Sun Run holds the distinction of being Canada’s largest annual 10k road race, and the second largest timed 10k in the world (we're not kidding, the race typically hosts around 50,000 runners)! Because of its size the Sun Run has a wave start system. Runners are positioned in various pre-race sections based on their estimated finishing time. This race also features a walkers division for participants who want to do the 10k distance without a focus on time.
The run is supported by its loyal host committee and an army of over 3,000 volunteers. The Vancouver Sun Run is still Canada's largest 10K road race and is now the 3rd largest timed 10K in the world. The Vancouver Sun Run has truly become one of Vancouver's traditional rites of spring and is preparing for its 30th year running.
More than 50,000 participants are expected to take part Sunday in Canada's largest 10-kilometre road race. The Vancouver Sun Run, now in its 30th year, kicks off at 8:40 a.m. PT as the competitive wheelchair racers leave the starting line at Burrard and Georgia. 1  PHOTOS | 2013 Vancouver Sun Run. 
The Vancouver Sun Run has been Canada's largest 10K road race since its inception in 1985. The Vancouver Sun Run has truly become one of Vancouver's traditional rites of spring and is preparing for its 30th year running.
Vancouver Sun Run. Vancouver Sun Run is a 10-km race held in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada in April. It is Canada’s largest 10K since its inception in 1985 and the 2nd largest timed 10K in the world
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Vancouver Sun Run, sponsored by The Vancouver Sun newspaper, is a 10-kilometre road running event held in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, each year on the third (sometimes the fourth) Sunday in April since 1985. It is one of the largest road races in North America. In the aftermath of the bombings at the 2013 Boston Marathon, Vancouver Sun Run race organizers have petitioned runners to wear blue and yellow, the official Boston Marathon colours, in solidarity and remembrance of those killed and injured in Boston a week prior.
The Vancouver Sun Run is Canada's largest running event. This, list of the largest running events in the world is based on the number of participants. If available, the number of registered participants or finishers may be specified. 