The plasma membrance is a mosaic model-thus named because the constituent molecules of the membrane, e.g. phospholipids, cholesterol, proteins, exist in a state of tigh … t associations and fluidity. The membrane is a bilayer of phospholipids. Because the tails are hydrophobic they interact with each other and occupy the inner membrane away from water. The polar heads are … the exterior and interior of the membrane since they interact well with water.
Prokaryotes have only one lipid bilayer-the cell membrane (also known as the plasma membrane). Many prokaryotes also have a cell wall, but the cell wall is composed of proteins or long chain carbohydrates, not lipids. The lipid bilayer is a thin polar membrane made of two layers of lipid molecules. These membranes are flat sheets that form a continuous barrier around all cells.
Plasma Membrane. All living cells, prokaryotic and eukaryotic, have a plasma membrane that encloses their contents and serves as a semi-porous barrier to the outside environment. The membrane acts as a boundary, holding the cell constituents together and keeping other substances from entering. The plasma membrane is permeable to specific molecules, however, and allows nutrients and other essential elements to enter the cell and waste materials to leave the cell.
Asker's rating. Report Abuse. The cell membrane is made up of thousands of tiny lipids, the polar heads and non-polar tails, these allow substances in through diffusion. diffusion of a cell membrane with water is called osmosis, and the larger particles, use protein channels to transport through. this requires no energy. for large particles like sugar or salt the cell uses active transport, endocytosis and exocytosis. and protein pumps.
The reason that the cell membrane is considered to be 'semi-permeable' is because there are certain materials that can pass through the cell membrane (e.g. hydrocarbons and oxygen cross through the cell membrane as they can be dissolved into the lipid layer-other examples include small polar molecules. The basic structure of the cell membrane consists of layers. The cell membrane is a phospholid bi-layer. It is made up of proteins and lipids (also known as the phospholipid). The bi layer consists of primarily a thin layer of amphipathic proteins/lipids which are arranged so that the hydrophobic tails shielded from surrounding fluid (the polar fluid)
Recall that phospholipids have a hydrophobic end and a hydrophilic end and that when placed in water they will orient themselves accordingly (5.11 pg 79). This is the basis for the plasma membrane of a cell. The cell membrane consists of a phospholipid bilayer with embedded proteins. We refer to the modern conceptual model of the cell membrane as the fluid mosaic model since the phospholipids are able to move about across the surface of the membrane (fluid) and the proteins are many and varied (mosaic) (5.12).
Report Abuse. This refers to a hypothetical model which supposes the plasma membrane is composed of two layers of lipids studded at various points with proteins that individually may protrude into or out of the lipid layers to various degrees. 
The plasma membrane is composed of a phospholipid bilayer, which is two layers of phospholipids back-to-back. Phospholipids are lipids with a phosphate group attached to them. The phospholipids have one head and two tails. The head is polar and hydrophilic, or water-loving. All cells are surrounded by a plasma membrane. The membrane is composed of a phospholipid bilayer arranged back-to-back. The membrane is also covered in places with cholesterol molecules and proteins. The plasma membrane is selectively permeable and regulates which molecules are allowed to enter and exit the cell