Each child has a 25% chance of having brown eyes and a 75% chance of having blue eyes. This is simplified since the other eye color genes (like those that influence green eyes) are being ignored. But it does mean that brown (or green or hazel or…) eyes are a definite possibility for these blue eyed parents. 
Normally, there is a thick layer of melanin on the back of the iris. Even people with the lightest blue eyes, with no melanin on the front of the iris at all, have dark brown coloration on the back of it, to prevent light from scattering around inside the eye. Dark brown eyes are dominant in humans and in many parts of the world, it is nearly the only iris color present. Dark pigment of brown eyes is common in East Asia, Southeast Asia, Central Asia, South Asia, West Asia, Oceania, Africa, Americas, etc. as well as parts of Eastern Europe and Southern Europe.
The brown allele is always dominant over the green and blue alleles, the green allele is always dominant over the blue allele, and the blue allele is always recessive. Because of this, it is possible for two brown-eyed parents to have a child with a different eye color than theirs. For two brown-eyed parents to have a blue-eyed child, for example, the mother and father would need to pass on a pair of blue alleles each to their offspring. 
When someone is born with black or grey eyes the majority will develop blue, green or brown eyes which become evident around six months of age. In the case of Alexandria's Genesis, the eyes will appear as pale silver to light purple, or Violet Eyes as the condition is also known. You have a beautiful eye color so be sure not to overdo it and take away from their natural beauty. Common Violet Eye Diseases. Violet eyes are no different than other low or no melanin eye colors such as blue or green or albino eyes when it comes to diseases of the eye.
Yes it is possible to have gray eyes. One reason is that gray eyes have less melanin than blue eyes. Second is the density of the proteins in the stroma. Answer by Sinefey (457). Yes, I have gray eyes. Since they are a pale shade my eyes tend to take on the color of what Im wearing..appearing blue and even green.
Eye color is not an example of a simple genetic trait, and blue eyes are not determined by a recessive allele at one gene. Instead, eye color is determined by variation at several different genes and the interactions between them, and this makes it possible for two blue-eyed parents to have brown-eyed children. Eye color: The myth. One of the oldest myths in human genetics is that having blue eyes is determined by a single gene, with the allele for blue eyes recessive to the allele for non-blue eyes (green, brown, or hazel). Many people who know nothing else about genetics think that two blue-eyed parents cannot have a brown-eyed child
The brightly colored eyes of many bird species result from the presence of other pigments, such as pteridines, purines, and carotenoids. Humans and other animals have many phenotypic variations in eye color. The genetics of eye color are complicated, and color is determined by multiple genes. So far, as many as 15 genes have been associated with eye color inheritance. Some of the eye-color genes include OCA2 and HERC2. The earlier belief that blue eye color is a simple recessive trait has been shown to be incorrect. The genetics of eye color are so complex that almost any parent-child combination of eye colors can occur. Dark brown eyes are dominant in humans and in many parts of the world, it is nearly the only iris color present. Dark pigment of brown eyes is common in East Asia, Southeast Asia, Central Asia, South Asia, West Asia, Oceania, Africa, Americas, etc. as well as parts of Eastern Europe and Southern Europe.
Typically grey eyes are a version of blue eyes. Look closely at the grey and it's more greyish blue. I've got grey eyes, my mom has blue, and my dad has brown. My eyes w … ere blue as a child but changed enough to now be clearly grey-pretty much smoke grey. But there is still a bluish undertone. It's just like hazel coming from brown or green... it's just a bit of a blend