SEARCH. Known as the ankle joint, the talocrural joint is actually two basic articulations working in cohesive junction. Each are hinge joints, with one formed at the end of the tibia and one formed at the lateral malleolus of the fibula. Each joins with the talus. The distal joint is formed with the juncture of the medial malleolus and the tibia joining the talus. The lateral joint is formed at the juncture of the lateral malleolus and the fibula with the talus. With 4 ligament supports, the entire joint process in encapsulated within one joint capsule. The ligaments support the ankle joints from the outside of this capsule. 
The medial malleolus is the prominence on the inner side of the ankle, formed by the lower end of the tibia. The lateral malleolus is the prominence on the outer side of the ankle, formed by the lower end of the fibula. Medial malleolus [edit]. The medial surface of the lower extremity of tibia is prolonged downward to form a strong pyramidal process, flattened from without inward-the medial malleolus. 1  The medial surface of this process is convex and subcutaneous
The lateral malleolus is a bony prominence on the fibula, one of the long bones that makes up the lower leg. The fibula is the narrowest of the long bones, situated on the outside of the leg, with this prominence creating the distinctive bump on the outside of the ankle. It is frequently involved in ankle fractures. The lateral malleolus is in one of the long bones that comprise the lower leg. The ends of the fibula are cartilaginous at birth, solidifying into bone as people age. The lateral malleolus is often involved in ankle injuries. Rest and casting are sometimes enough to allow a lateral malleous fracture to heal on its own.
The medial malleolus forms the medial side of the ankle joint with the talus of the foot; it can be easily located by palpation of the skin in this region. On the lateral side of the tibia is a small recess known as the fibular notch, which forms the distal tibiofibular joint with the fibula. 
malleolus. 1. a rounded process. 2. either of the two rounded prominences on either side of the ankle joint; the lateral (or fibular, external, or outer) malleolus is at the lower end of the fibula and the medial (or tibial, internal, or inner) malleolus is at the lower end of the tibia. adj. adj malle´olar. , pl.
The ankle joint is a complex joint formed by three bones. It consists of the tibia provides the major weight bearing surface where it joins the talus. The joint is saddle-shaped with the tibia contributing the medial malleolus and the fibula contributing the lateral malleolus. 
Medial malleolus, which is also called internal malleolus, is the prominence that is formed by the distal end of the tibia on the medial or the inner side of the ankle. The bony protuberances located on the outer and the inner side are referred to as lateral malleolus and medial malleolus respectively. Lateral malleolus is a protuberance that is formed by the lower or distal extremity of the fibula, on the lateral side of the ankle.
1 The inferior tibiofibular articulation (tibiofibular syndesmosis) is formed by the rough, convex surface of the medial side of the lower end of the fibula, and a rough concave surface on the lateral side of the tibia. 1 Lateral malleolus. 2  Interosseous membrane connecting the fibula to the tibia, forming a syndesmoses joint. 3  The superior tibiofibular articulation is an arthrodial joint between the lateral condyle of the tibia and the head of the fibula.