The illegal shooting, trapping, or taking of game or fish from private or public property. The poaching of game and fish was made a crime in England in the seventeenth century, as aristocratic landowners sought to preserve their shooting and property rights. 
Poaching has traditionally been defined as the illegal hunting, killing, or capturing of wild animals, usually associated with land use rights. Until the 20th century, mostly impoverished peasants poached for subsistence purposes, thus supplementing meager diets. The following violations and offenses are considered acts of poaching: 1  Hunting, killing or collecting wildlife that is listed as endangered by IUCN and protected by law such as the Endangered Species Act, the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918 and international treaties such as CITES.
Poaching, like smuggling, has a long counter-cultural history. The verb poach is derived from the Middle English word pocchen literally meaning bagged, enclosed in a bag. Poaching was dispassionately reported for England in Pleas of the Forest, transgressions of the rigid Anglo-Norman Forest Law. The following violations and offenses are considered acts of poaching: 1  Hunting, killing or collecting wildlife that is listed as endangered by IUCN and protected by law such as the Endangered Species Act, the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918 and international treaties such as CITES.
The illegal shooting, trapping, or taking of game or fish from private or public property. The poaching of game and fish was made a crime in England in the seventeenth century, as aristocratic landowners sought to preserve their shooting and property rights. Poor peasants did most of the poaching to supplement their diets with meat and fish. Rare and endangered species, which are protected by state and federal law, are often the targets of poachers. Poaching laws are enforced by game wardens, who patrol state and national parks and respond to violations on private property. Poachers are subject to criminal laws, ranging from misdemeanors to felonies.
The term “poaching” is not used in Soviet criminal law, and the punishment for poaching is set by the articles of the Criminal Code on illegal hunting and illegal engagement in fishing or other marine industries. Poaching. the taking of or destruction of game in violation of the rules of hunting, fishing, and other requirements of the law on the preservation of wildlife.
Definition: Poaching is the illegal taking of wildlife, in violation of local, state, federal or international law. Activities that are considered poaching include killing an animal out of season, without a license, with a prohibited weapon, or in a prohibited manner such as jacklighting. At right, a trophy on display at the Assunpink Wildlife Management Area, Monmouth County, NJ. A plaque below the trophy reads in part, This buck was illegally taken during the 2003 extended bow season in Manalapan Township, Monmouth County.
poach 2. v. poached, poach·ing, poach·es. v. intr. 1. To take fish or game illegally, especially by trespassing on another's property. 2. a. To take or appropriate something unfairly or illegally. b. To encroach on another person's rights or responsibilities: felt the guys in accounting were poaching on his turf. They confessed to poaching on Monsieur Stangerson's estates, and it was while they were poaching, on the night of the crime, that they were found not far from the pavilion at the moment when the outrage was being committed. The Mystery of the Yellow Room by Leroux, Gaston View in context.
Poaching chicken breasts. Photo © Lisa Hubbard / Getty Images. Definition: In the culinary arts, the word poach means to cook something in liquid with a temperature ranging from 140°F to 180°F. Poaching is typically reserved for cooking very delicate items like eggs and fish. But other proteins like chicken are often prepared via poaching, and some vegetables can be poached too. Among the advantages of poaching as a cooking technique are the fact that poached items will turn out moist and tender, which is certainly desirable in the case of fish where it is easy for fish to dry out when prepared using other cooking methods.
1. To take (fish or game) illegally, especially by trespassing on another's property. 2. a. To take or appropriate unfairly or illegally: poaching another firm's best employees. b. Sports To play (a ball) out of turn or in another's territory. 3. To make (land) muddy or broken up by trampling. They confessed to poaching on Monsieur Stangerson's estates, and it was while they were poaching, on the night of the crime, that they were found not far from the pavilion at the moment when the outrage was being committed. The Mystery of the Yellow Room by Leroux, Gaston View in context.
Poaching. Poaching is the unlawful or illegal taking of wild plants or animals, such as through hunting, harvesting, fishing, or trapping. The law concerned may be a law of property, of regulation, or of local or international conservation and wildlife management. 