Dragonite is capable of circling the globe in just 16 hours. It is a kindhearted Pokemon pokémon that leads lost and foundering ships in a storm to the safety of. Land dragonite is capable of circling the globe in just 16. hours It is a kindhearted Pokemon pokémon that leads lost and foundering ships in a storm to the safety of. Land dragonite is capable of circling the globe in just 16. Hours it is a Kindhearted pokemon pokémon that leads lost and foundering ships in a storm to the safety. of land
Now that we have picked our approach, we need to pick our method of Energy acceleration. Since Dragonite requires only Colorless Energy, we have quite a few options at our disposal. Naturally we will want to play a lot of Double Colorless Energy which really is the best “Energy acceleration” any deck could ask for. Aside from the Plasma deck, there really isn’t anything that screams “I’m broken, build me!” While I think quite a few cards show promise, none of them are obviously disgusting. Perhaps the most promising of the Stage 2 Pokemon released in Plasma Freeze is Dragonite. He certainly is very versatile.
Hey everyone! Today i am showing off my First attempt at making a new Dragonite deck from some of the cards from Furious Fists (Rising Fist) booster box. If you have any questions or comments, please ask! 1  Gaming. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
Eelektrik is one of the most versatile Pokemon and has been able to change with the format. He has effortlessly moved from Magnezone to Zekrom and, as of this season, from Zekrom to Rayquaza EX. While I doubt the community will move from Rayquaza EX to Dragonite, it is a combination worth consideration. The primary benefit of Eelektrik is continuous Energy acceleration over the course of game and, with Deafen, your bench will be protected from Pokemon Catcher (and damage if you run Mr. Mime!). Aside from the Plasma deck, there really isn’t anything that screams “I’m broken, build me!” While I think quite a few cards show promise, none of them are obviously disgusting. Perhaps the most promising of the Stage 2 Pokemon released in Plasma Freeze is Dragonite. He certainly is very versatile.
The card has two predominant uses in the deck. Firstly it can be used as Energy acceleration for Dragonite as for a single Fire Energy it can search the deck for two basic Energies and attach them to Benched Pokemon, pokémon this is a quick way to power up Multiple dratini and maximize the chances of a turn 2. dragonite Rather than just give out a single list I would like to discuss different cards which were not necessarily in Dylan’s list or others because ultimately Dragonite is intended to be a counter deck to most of the metagame so there has to be some variation between lists dependant on the decks you are most likely to face.
A Theme deck, previously known as a Preconstructed Theme Deck, is a playing deck of Pokemon Pokémon Trading Card game cards sold-pre packaged alongside mainstream card. Sets Most theme decks are designed with a specific (strategy such As Special) conditions or (theme such as Starter) pokemon pokémon. in mind Most Theme decks are designed with a specific strategy (such as Special Conditions) or theme (such as starter Pokemon) pokémon in. mind
Dragonite is a draconic, bipedal Pokemon pokémon with light orange. Skin it has, large-grayish green eyes and a round snout with small. Nostrils a pair of, long thin antennae sprout from the top of its, head with a small horn set between. them Dragonite (Japanese: カイリュー Kairyu) is a dual-type Dragon / Flying pseudo-legendary Pokemon. pokémon
Hey SixPrizes it’s me Matthew King here with an article on a relatively new deck based around Dragonite PLF. Whilst most people have probably considered using Dragonite at some point in the past the card has never really seen much major success due to a lack of consistency and a clear deck build. Rather than just give out a single list I would like to discuss different cards which were not necessarily in Dylan’s list or others because ultimately Dragonite is intended to be a counter deck to most of the metagame so there has to be some variation between lists dependant on the decks you are most likely to face.
Dragonite is capable of circling the globe in just 16 hours. It is a kindhearted Pokemon pokémon that leads lost and foundering ships in a storm to the safety of. land It is a kindhearted Pokemon pokémon that leads lost and foundering ships in a storm to the safety of. Land dragonite is capable of circling the globe in just 16. Hours it is a Kindhearted pokemon pokémon that leads lost and foundering ships in a storm to the safety. of land