Systematic evaluation of REMERON (mirtazapine) Tablets has demonstrated that its efficacy in major depressive disorder is maintained for periods of up to 40 weeks following 8 to 12 weeks of initial treatment at a dose of 15 to 45 mg/day (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). REMERON® (mirtazapine) Tablets are supplied as: 15 mg Tablets — oval, scored, yellow, coated, with “Organon” debossed on 1 side and “T3Z” on the other side. Bottles of 30 NDC 0052-0105-30. 30 mg Tablets — oval, scored, red-brown, coated, with “Organon” debossed on 1 side and “T5Z” on the other side.
The recommended starting dose for REMERON® (mirtazapine) Tablets is 15 mg/day, administered in a single dose, preferably in the evening prior to sleep. REMERON® (mirtazapine) Tablets are supplied as: 15 mg Tablets — oval, scored, yellow, coated, with “Organon” debossed on 1 side and “T3Z” on the other side. Bottles of 30 NDC 0052-0105-30. 30 mg Tablets — oval, scored, red-brown, coated, with “Organon” debossed on 1 side and “T5Z” on the other side.
RESULTS: In 6 patients, the mirtazapine doses ranged from 10 to 30 times the maximum recommended dose, and there were no serious adverse effects of overdose. Two patients at special risk, a 90-year-old man and a 3-year-old child, took higher-than-usual doses without serious sequelae. CONCLUSION: After an overdose of substantial multiples of mirtazapine that exceed the maximum recommended daily dosage, the new antidepressant mirtazapine appears to be safe in a limited number of cases.
Recommended dosage. The recommended initial dose of mirtazapine in 15 mg taken at bedtime. The dose may be increased in 15-mg increments every one or two weeks as needed until symptoms of depression or anxiety resolve. Typical doses range between 15 and 45 mg. Dosages above 45 mg per day are not recommended. Elderly people or those with liver or kidney disease should use mirtazapine carefully, since they may be more sensitive to some of the drug's side effects.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: I've been on Prozac for 10 months, and Mirtazapine for nearly 5 (originally 30mg then increased to 45mg, which is the maximum recommended daily dose of the drug). I've never experienced anxiety as a result of Mirtazapine personally. 
The recommended starting dose of Remeron is 15 mg a day, usually taken at bedtime. The dose of Remeron ® (mirtazapine) that your healthcare provider prescribes will vary, depending on a number of factors, including: Your healthcare provider may increase the dosage if symptoms continue, or decrease the dose if side effects occur. The maximum recommended dose is 45 mg per day.
As is always the case, do not adjust your dosage unless your healthcare provider specifically tells you to do so. The recommended dose of Remeron when beginning treatment for depression is 15 mg, taken once daily at bedtime. Your healthcare provider may increase the dosage if symptoms continue, or decrease the dose if side effects occur. The maximum recommended dose is 45 mg per day.
The recommended initial dose of mirtazapine in 15 mg taken at bedtime. The dose may be increased in 15-mg increments every one or two weeks as needed until symptoms of depression or anxiety resolve. Typical doses range between 15 and 45 mg. Dosages above 45 mg per day are not recommended. Elderly people or those with liver or kidney disease should use mirtazapine carefully, since they may be more sensitive to some of the drug's side effects.
The recommended starting dose when treating depression is mirtazapine 15 mg, taken once daily at bedtime. Your healthcare provider may increase the dosage if symptoms continue, or decrease the dose if side effects occur. The maximum recommended dose of mirtazapine is 45 mg per day. The recommended starting dose when treating depression is 15 mg, taken once a day. The dose of mirtazapine (Remeron ®) that your healthcare provider prescribes will vary, depending on a number of factors, including: