White cake has only egg whites while yellow cake contains whole eggs, and it’s the yolks that give the cake its yellow tint. Beyond that, other differences include: * White cake is made with cake flour, whereas yellow cake uses all-purpose flour. * White cake has a very light, almost sponge cake-like texture, whereas yellow cake has a moister and denser texture.
White and vanilla cakes are made with common ingredients: eggs, baking powder, flour, sugar, and butter. To make a vanilla cake, vanilla extract is used in the mixture as well. The more vanilla in a cake the more yellow a vanilla cake will turn. A white cake should be made with only egg whites so as not to turn the color of the cake with the yolk. The icing of a cake will depend on the type and flavor of the cake
* Yellow cake is more prevalent and tasted more familiar – most standard cakes are yellow cakes. Wedding cakes are frequently white cakes though. And that’s pretty much it! The flavor between the two was quite similar, the differences were mainly color and texture. Beyond that, other differences include: * White cake is made with cake flour, whereas yellow cake uses all-purpose flour. * White cake has a very light, almost sponge cake-like texture, whereas yellow cake has a moister and denser texture.
Yellow cake is the most versatile. The favorite frosting for yellow cake is chocolate or fudge. However, yellow cake tastes great with mocha, fruit flavored, butterscotch, map … le walnut frostings, syrups, and fruit compote toppings. It even serves as a base for strawberry shortcake. I would have to say fudge or vanilla. White cake is white because it's made with egg whites only; yellow cake is yellow because it's made with whole e … ggs, the egg yolks make it yellow. If you are making it yourself from a recipe for white cake but want it yellow, use whole eggs instead of egg whites, reducing the number of eggs by one.
· just now. Report Abuse. Chocolate fosting is my fav with yellow cake. And here's a super easy Snickerdoodle Cake (like the cookie) recipe: For the cake: 1 box White Cake mix 2 Teaspoons Cinnamon 1 Teaspoon Vanilla Mix cake as directed on box then add cinnamon & vanilla and mix on medium speed 2 minutes. 
Later, when the egg or egg whites and butter vs. oil are added it will of course affect the final cake texture but probably not the cake batter flavor. Another possibility is that yellow cake batter mixes might have artificial butter flavoring whereas white cakes simply use vegetable oil for a lighter flavor. If it was one of the major brands of cake mix then it will likely have additives such as flavorings and food color to give it its distinctive flavor and color. In the homemade realm a white cake is made with only egg whites and a yellow cake is made with both whites and yolk.
White cake mix is also a plain cake type. However, it utilizes only egg whites as its main binding ingredient. Alternative to fresh egg whites would be that in powdered form. Most bakers, of course, prefer the fresh version to emphasize the egg’s unique flavor and texture. And so, we investigate further on what makes a white cake mix different from the yellow one. The yellow variant is a type of plain cake mix that does not contain any extra flavor. What makes it yellow are distinctive ingredients namely butter and egg yolks. Some versions use only egg yolks and some put in the entire egg (that ends up dominantly yellow, all the same)
If this Cake batter-flavored desserts Pinterest page is any indication, someone in the food world has decided the flavor of birthday cake is vanilla and sprinkles/funfetti/jimmies. What I see here is a vanilla-flavored cake trend, not a birthday-cake flavored trend. The flavor of birthday cake, I think, is whatever your favorite birthday cake is, not what someone says it is. 