When the next opportunity for labor law reform arrives, union membership will be smaller and our political clout even more diminished. If we are to succeed, future reform proposals must be wrapped in a broader mantle that will appeal to all workers. The four-year drive for the Employee Free Choice Act was the single largest union-backed campaign in decades and it succeeded in uniting the labor movement as never before. The key problem with labor law is that we do not have the meaningful right to strike. Our right to collectively bargain, to use workplace-based solidarity, and to strike has been gutted by Congress through Taft Hartley and numerous court decisions.
So while workers’ rights are certainly under attack in this country, and labor law reform is urgently needed, the notion that the ruling elites at SEIU—whose excessive compensation puts them on the other side of the solar system from the 99%--can be trusted to “lead the way” is a cruel joke. The key problem with labor law is that we do not have the meaningful right to strike. Our right to collectively bargain, to use workplace-based solidarity, and to strike has been gutted by Congress through Taft Hartley and numerous court decisions.
Reforming labour laws will boost industry and create more jobs. Given that the reform of labour laws is, contrary to popular perception, in the interests of the workers, what government needs to do is have this topic debated and explained so that workers, instead of opposing such reform, become its advocate. This law has probably done more to hold back the growth of India's manufacturing sector than any other policy. Indian labour laws are among the most rigid in the world. What is remarkable about this and so many other Indian labour laws is that they leave no room for free contracting.
“After 50 years of vested interests colluding with the lack of political courage, these labor reforms seem almost unbelievable.”. In his first speech on India’s Independence Day on August 15, prime minister Narendra Modi called upon global businesses to invest in the country’s manufacturing sector. Freedom is the ability to make choices and those choices come from being educated, employed or employable. The labor laws are an important policy breakthrough in creating jobs that will reduce poverty and make India a fertile habitat for job creation.
While many consider the Modi administration’s latest moves in this director to be going after the low-hanging fruit, Manish Sabharwal, founder and chairman of Bangalore-based staffing services firm Teamlease Services, says it is a good beginning. For more on India’s labor law reforms, see our related story. Freedom is the ability to make choices and those choices come from being educated, employed or employable. The labor laws are an important policy breakthrough in creating jobs that will reduce poverty and make India a fertile habitat for job creation.
Labor Law Reform. The Bill of Rights has never been applied in the workplace, where employers maintain near absolute control. With our constitutional rights shredded by the bosses, our modern-day rights to organize into unions are also ignored by bosses. The passage of the Wagner Act in 1935 was the closest that labor would get to winning a worker bill of rights. This was immediately attacked by employers through their legislatures and courts. The Wagner Act provided labor the right to organize, to bargain, and to strike without interference from the employer.
UE has been in the forefront calling for reform of the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA). No significant progress has been made on the labor rights front in decades, and today employers brazenly violate the law and victimize working people who dare to challenge their complete control by attempting to unionize. The passage of the Wagner Act in 1935 was the closest that labor would get to winning a worker bill of rights. This was immediately attacked by employers through their legislatures and courts. The Wagner Act provided labor the right to organize, to bargain, and to strike without interference from the employer.
Congress enacted the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA) in 1935 to protect the rights of employees and employers, to encourage collective bargaining, and to curtail certain private sector labor and management practices, which can harm the general welfare of workers, businesses and the U.S. economy. 
India is a nation of informal enterprise dwarfs rather than formal corporate babies. The labor law changes cleared last month by the union cabinet were neither comprehensive nor complete. But they are wonderful because they represent a breakthrough in a policy issue that is difficult to reform in all countries. They recognize that a job changes a young or poor life in a way that no subsidy ever can. Freedom is the ability to make choices and those choices come from being educated, employed or employable. The labor laws are an important policy breakthrough in creating jobs that will reduce poverty and make India a fertile habitat for job creation.
Labour law (also labor law or employment law, see spelling differences) mediates the relationship between workers (employees), employers, trade unions and the government. The state of labour law at any one time is therefore both the product of, and a component of struggles between various social forces. As England was the first country to industrialise, it was also the first to face the often appalling consequences of industrial revolution in a less regulated economic framework.