Having vitamin B12 deficiency means that your body does not have enough of this vitamin. You need B12 to make red blood cells, which carry oxygen through your body. Not having enough B12 can lead to anemia, which means your body does not have enough red blood cells to do the job. This can make you feel weak and tired. Vitamin B12 deficiency can cause damage to your nerves and can affect memory and thinking.
Vitamin B1 Thiamin Part 2 What can happen if you don't get enough Vitamin B1? Tiredness, muscle weakness, pain, prickly sensations, depression, canker sores, and constipation are symptoms of mild thiamin deficiency. The RDA for an adult male is only about 1.5 mg, and for adult women is just 1.1 mg. 
If you don't get enough vitamin B6 in your diet, you may need supplements. Photo Credit Thinkstock/Comstock/Getty Images. Vitamin B-6, also known as pyridoxine, is a water-soluble vitamin that has many functions. Ideally, you should get all the vitamin B-6 that you need from your diet. If that isn't possible, you may need a vitamin supplement. Before you start taking a supplement, however, talk with your doctor.
Vitamin B6 deficiency, while rare, can occur in people consuming poor-quality diets. Symptoms typically don’t occur until the later stages of deficiency. Signs of deficiency can include skin rashes, depression, nausea, convulsions and confusion.
Which foods contain it: Vitamin B12 is found primarily in meat and dairy products, so strict vegetarians are at risk for a deficiency. What happens if you don’t get enough: Vitamin B12 deficiencies can lead to anemia and confusion in elderly people. The CDC reports that in studies of people with identifiable B12 deficiencies, 56 to 77 percent exhibited megaloblastic anemia. Getting Enough. To stay healthy, most people don’t need to take a supplement in order to get enough B vitamins. There are plenty of delicious foods available to get all the nutrients you need naturally, as long as you maintain a complete diet of meats, grains, fruits and vegetables.
EXPLANATION: Vitamin B12 is a critical nutrient that helps your body make healthy red blood cells. If you have a chronic lack of B12, your body can't make the amount of red blood cells that it needs, which can lead to anemia. 
Night blindness is the first sign of a deficiency, dry skin, decreased resistance to infections. Too much can cause dry itch skin, headache, fatigue, hair-loss, vomiting and l … iver damage. Without enough B12, the … body can suffer nervous-system slow downs and possible brain damage, but that occurs in more severe cases. More commonly there is a problem witht he blood. Almost always it is some form of anemia. Generally, it is with easy bruising and slow clotting of blood to an open cut, sore, or wound.
This anemia can also happen if you don't eat enough foods with B12, but this is rare. People who eat a vegan diet and older adults who don't eat a variety of foods may need to take a daily vitamin pill to get enough B12. Other causes include drinking alcohol and taking some prescription and nonprescription medicines. You need B12 to make red blood cells, which carry oxygen through your body. Not having enough B12 can lead to anemia, which means your body does not have enough red blood cells to do the job. This can make you feel weak and tired. Vitamin B12 deficiency can cause damage to your nerves and can affect memory and thinking.
Deficiency. If you don't get enough vitamin B-6 from your diet or supplements, you most likely will develop a deficiency. Vitamin B-6 is involved in protein and red blood-cell metabolism. Vitamin B-6, also known as pyridoxine, is a water-soluble vitamin that has many functions. Ideally, you should get all the vitamin B-6 that you need from your diet. If that isn't possible, you may need a vitamin supplement. Before you start taking a supplement, however, talk with your doctor.
Symptoms of a deficiency depends on what type of vitamin B you lack. They can range from fatigue and confusion, to anemia or a compromised immune system. Skin rashes also can occur. Here’s a rundown of the most common types of vitamin B: what they do, which foods contain it, and why you need it. Getting Enough. To stay healthy, most people don’t need to take a supplement in order to get enough B vitamins. There are plenty of delicious foods available to get all the nutrients you need naturally, as long as you maintain a complete diet of meats, grains, fruits and vegetables.