Thus, a system which delivers an HSPF of 7.7 will transfer 2.25 times as much heat as electricity consumed over a season. In Europe the term Seasonal Performance Factor (SPF) is used to mean the same as the average COP over the heating season. The higher the HSPF rating of a unit, the more energy efficient it is. HSPF is a ratio of BTU heat output over the heating season to watt-hours of electricity used. It has units of BTU/watt-hr. Depending on the system, an HSPF ≥ 8 can be considered high efficiency and worthy of a US Energy Tax Credit.
The efficiency of air conditioners are often rated by the HSPF as defined by the Air Conditioning, Heating, and Refrigeration Institute in its standard 210/240 Performance Rating of Unitary Air-Conditioning and Air-Source Heat Pump Equipment. The higher the HSPF rating of a unit, the more energy efficient it is. HSPF is a ratio of BTU heat output over the heating season to watt-hours of electricity used. It has units of BTU/watt-hr. Depending on the system, an HSPF ≥ 8 can be considered high efficiency and worthy of a US Energy Tax Credit.
HSPF (Heating Seasonal Performance Factor) is a term used in the heating and cooling industry. HSPF is specifically used to measure the efficiency of air source heat pumps. The higher the HSPF rating of a unit, the more energy efficient it is. HSPF is a ratio of BTU heat output over the heating season to watt-hours of electricity used. It has units of BTU/watt-hr. Depending on the system, an HSPF ≥ 8 can be considered high efficiency and worthy of a US Energy Tax Credit.
You have probably stumble in this heating and air acronym when charged to select equipment for heating and air conditioning. Let’s get started by quoting from Wikipedia : HSPF (Heating Seasonal Performance Factor) is a term used in the heating and cooling industry. HSPF is specifically used to measure the efficiency of air source heat pumps. Depending on the system, an HSPF ≥ 8 can be considered high efficiency and worthy of a US Energy Tax Credit. For a heat pump delivering 120,000,000 Btu during the season when consuming 15,000 kWh the HSPF can be calculated as HSPF = 120000000 (Btu) / (15000 (kWh) x1000) = HSPF = 8.
HSPF. HSPF stands for Heating Seasonal Performance Factor. The Heating Seasonal Performance Factor (HSPF) is used to measure the efficiency of heat pump. The HSPF is a ratio of the heat output to electricity use over an average heating season, and the higher the HSPF the greater the energy efficiency. 
They needed a universal standard of measurement to determine the energy efficiency of HVAC units. These measurements are in SEER (central air conditioner units, Heat Pump cooling season), EER (window unit), HSPF (Heat Pump), AFUE (Furnace, boilers) and COP (heat pump, chiller).
more HVAC definitions. HSPF is an abbreviation for Heating Seasonal Performance Factor. It is the most commonly used measure of the heating efficiency of heat pumps. (The cooling efficiency of a heat pump is measured by its SEER .). Technically speaking, the HSPF is a heat pump's estimated seasonal heating output in BTUs divided by the amount of energy that it consumes in watt-hours. A heat pump with a high HSPF is more efficient than a heat pump with a low HSPF. New heat pumps manufactured after 2005 are required to have an HSPF of at least 7.7. The most efficient heat pumps have an HSPF of 10.
HSPF –. HSPF stands for Heating Seasonal Performance Factor and is primarily used to measure the heating efficiency of heat pumps and ductless heat pumps, although it is also used (somewhat confusingly) to describe the overall heating and cooling capabilities of a system. HSPF, SEER, and AFUE – Demystifying Efficiency Ratings. The world of heating and cooling certainly has its fair share of tricky technical language, which can make it difficult for consumers to make an informed decision when buying new equipment.
Le 6 June 2012 By Melissa Dupuis. HSPF is an acronym that stands for “Heating Seasonal Performance Factor”. HSPF is a rating like SEER but instead of being a rating used to measure the efficiency of a cooling system, it is a rating to measure specifically the heating efficiency of a heat pump. A heat pump has both a SEER and an HSPF rating since it can both cool and heat a building. 1 In 2012, the highest HSPF rating on a heat pump is approximately 13. 2  If you refer to the chart below, you can save approximately $200 if you own a 9 HSPF heat pump versus owning a 7 HSPF heat pump. 3  Note that it is with a 3 ton heat pump with an average electricity rate of $0.086 (Quebec base rate is approx $0.0751).
Heat Pumps are rate with two energy efficiency: HSPF is a measurement of Heat pump’s energy efficiency over one heating season and the cooling efficiency of Heat Pump is measuring with Seasonal Energy Efficiency Rating over one cooling season. These measurements are in SEER (central air conditioner units, Heat Pump cooling season), EER (window unit), HSPF (Heat Pump), AFUE (Furnace, boilers) and COP (heat pump, chiller).