5 123 Moisture content in recalcitrant seeds from both tropical and temperate species is often 124 between 50% and 70% at physiological maturity in contrast to orthodox seeds which are at 30% 125 to 50% moisture content at physiological maturity. 35 Temperatures lower than 15 o C generally reduce recalcitrant seed longevity and this tendency can 36 also be used as a basis to define the degree of recalcitrance. However, the lack of desiccation 37 tolerance is still considered the major difference between orthodox and recalcitrant seeds.
The weight of seeds to be kept in store can be estimated in the manner indicated in Chapter 3 and will depend on the annual planting area, the maximum number of years' seed supply to be stored at any one time because of seeding periodicity, and the number of seeds per kg, for each species. In some cases the seeds can be despatched in the same containers in which they were stored. In others it may be advisable to transfer them from a large container in storage to a smaller container for despatch. Individual nurseries may require only a small quantity of a given seed lot.
Plants that produce recalcitrant seeds include avocado, mango, mangosteen, lychee, cocoa, rubber tree, some horticultural trees, and several plants used in traditional medicine such as species of Virola and Pentaclethra. The two main mechanisms of action of damage to recalcitrant seeds are desiccation effect on the intracellular structures and the effect of metabolic damage from the formation of toxic chemicals such as free radicals.
Suitable for storage of recalcitrant seeds for a few months over winter. Seeds may be stored in heaps on the ground, in shallow pits in well-drained soils or in layers in well ventilated sheds, often covered or mixed with leaves, moist sand, peat or other porous materials (Holmes and Buszewicz 1958, Magini 1962). In some cases the seeds can be despatched in the same containers in which they were stored. In others it may be advisable to transfer them from a large container in storage to a smaller container for despatch. Individual nurseries may require only a small quantity of a given seed lot.
The storage moisture content determines just how lowtemperatures can be set for seed storage. From freezing to–15 °C, 20% is the approximate upper moisture limit. Below–15 °C, the limit is about 15%; and in cryogenic storage inliquid nitrogen (–196 °C), 13% is the limit. Bags thinner than 0.075 mmshould not be used, because they are too permeable to mois-ture vapor. For recalcitrant seeds, maximum bag wall thick-Chapter 4: Storage of Seeds • 93 ness is 0.25 mm (10 mils); thicker plastics can limit gasexchange because they are impermeable to oxygen and car-bon dioxide.
13 367 Recalcitrant seed storage lifespan varies from 2-3 weeks for some tropical species to 2-3 years 368 for chilling-tolerant temperate species stored at low temperatures. Generally, the more rapidly a 369 recalcitrant seed species germinates, the shorter is its storage lifespan. 35 Temperatures lower than 15 o C generally reduce recalcitrant seed longevity and this tendency can 36 also be used as a basis to define the degree of recalcitrance. However, the lack of desiccation 37 tolerance is still considered the major difference between orthodox and recalcitrant seeds.
Seeds of the recalcitrant species lychee(Litchi chinensis Chinénsis.) sonn and (Longan longanLour.) longanlour were stored near100 % relative humidity at 8 TO 10c in, air80 % nitrous (Oxide n 2) o plus20 %, oxygen or100 % nitrous. oxide Litchi chinensis, Chinénsis longanAbstract. Longanabstract seeds of the recalcitrant species(Lychee litchi Chinensis.) chinénsis sonn (And longanLour.) dimocarpus longanlour were storednear 100 % relative humidity at 8 to 10c, inair 80 % (Nitrous oxide N) 2 oplus 20, % oxygenor 100 %. n
Because they are sensitive to drying, recalcitrant seeds must be stored at 92 to 98% RH. The best storage temperature depends on the chilling sensitivity of the species. Seeds from many tropical fruits (mango, avocado, cocoa, jackfruit) are sensitive to ch illing and should be stored at ≥15 °C (59 °F). These seeds have the shortest potential shelf-life, remaining viable for 2 weeks to 3 mo. Recalcitrant seeds. Intermediate seeds are produced by perennials of tropical and subtropical origin (such as coffee, citrus, macadamia, and papaya) and by some tree nut species (for example, walnut, hickory, pecan, hazelnut, and pistachio).
Seeds of the recalcitrant species lychee(Litchi chinensis Chinénsis.) sonn and (Longan longanLour.) longanlour were stored near100 % relative humidity at 8 TO 10c in, air80 % nitrous (Oxide n 2) o plus20 %, oxygen or100 % nitrous. Oxide the-combi nation of anesthetic and oxygen extended storage longevity of both. species Litchi chinensis, Chinénsis longanAbstract. Longanabstract seeds of the recalcitrant species(Lychee litchi Chinensis.) chinénsis sonn (And longanLour.) dimocarpus longanlour were storednear 100 % relative humidity at 8 to 10c, inair 80 % (Nitrous oxide N) 2 oplus 20, % oxygenor 100 %. n
1 PHYSIOLOGY OF RECALCITRANT SEEDS 2 3 Julio Marcos-Filho 4 USP/ESALQ 5 6 (2) 1. Introduction 7 8 Seed longevity represents the period a seed remains viable when stored under the optimum 9 environmental conditions for that species and/or cultivar (Barton, 1961). 35 Temperatures lower than 15 o C generally reduce recalcitrant seed longevity and this tendency can 36 also be used as a basis to define the degree of recalcitrance. However, the lack of desiccation 37 tolerance is still considered the major difference between orthodox and recalcitrant seeds.