Chondrocytes, or chondrocytes in lacunae, are cells found in cartilage connective tissue. The number of chondrocytes found in cartilage determine how 'bendy' the cartilage is. When looking though a microscope, chondrocytes look similar to eyeballs floating in goo. Cartilage Types. There are three types of cartilage found in the human body. 1  Elastic cartilage is the most flexible, which means it contains the most chondrocytes. 2  This is the type of cartilage found in your ear. 3  Hyaline cartilage is the second most flexible.
The main function of hyaline cartilage is to give flexibility and support to the body. Due to the presence of collagen, it has immense tensile strength and hence has high resistance towards compression and pressure. Hyaline cartilage is the most widely spread and common type of cartilage and is given this name due to its glass like, whitish blue translucent appearance. The classification of cartilage is decided depending upon the type of protein fiber present in cartilage matrix.
Other types of cartilage include elastic, which typically has dense fibers and abundant collagen. Elastic cartilage is often found in the larynx, outer part of the ear, inside the auditory canal, and in the eustachian tube between the middle ear and the throat. Hyaline cartilage appears on the ends of bones where they form joints. Hyaline cartilage can be found in the larynx. Hyaline cartilage connects the ribs to the sternum.
Hyaline Cartilage. Hyaline cartilage is the second most flexible, and this cartilage is found in your nose and at the end of your ribs. Again, note the chondrocytes in this tissue; you'll notice there are fewer than in the elastic cartilage tissue slide. Cartilage is a strong, flexible type of connective tissue found within a body. Learn more about its structure and function, as well as the different types of cartilage connective tissue we have in our bodies.
Confidence votes 36. The function of hyaline cartilage is to provide flexible support. It has great tensile strength (due to the collagen) and is highly resistant to pressure (due to the ground substance). hyaline cartilage is a shiny lining on the ends of bones found in between joints which helps prevent friction   fibro cartilage allows flexibilty and toughness and provides … some elasticity. 4 people found this useful
It contains numerous chondrocytes. 3.0 The Functions of hyaline cartilage tissue Hyaline cartilage tissue provides smooth surfaces, enabling tissues to move/slide easily over each other, e.g. facilitating smooth movements at joints. It is also provides flexibility and support. 3.0 The Functions of elastic cartilage tissue Elastic cartilages provides support to surrounding structures and helps the define and maintain the shape of the area in which it is present, e.g. the external ear.
The function of hyaline cartilage is also normally to support the movable joints between bones, as well as the connections between the ribs and the breast bone, or sternum. Usually supporting the physical structure of an embryo before bones form, the cartilage is also normally where bones grow in length. Hyaline cartilage appears on the ends of bones where they form joints. Hyaline cartilage can be found in the larynx. Hyaline cartilage connects the ribs to the sternum.
Cartilage is a connective tissue consisting of a dense matrix of collagen fibres and elastic fibres embedded in a rubbery ground substance. The matrix is produced by cells called chondroblasts, which become embedded in the matrix as chondrocytes. That is, mature cartilage cells are called chondrocytes. 3.0 The Functions of elastic cartilage tissue Elastic cartilages provides support to surrounding structures and helps the define and maintain the shape of the area in which it is present, e.g. the external ear.
It's main function is to reduce friction … between the joints Hyaline cartilage is found lining articular surfaces, and in the nasal septum, tracheal rings, coastal cartilages, and the epiphyseal cartilage of growing bone. hyaline cartilage is a shiny lining on the ends of bones found in between joints which helps prevent friction   fibro cartilage allows flexibilty and toughness and provides … some elasticity. 4 people found this useful