A pterygium is a non-cancerous growth of tissue that forms on the conjunctiva. Normally the conjunctiva is a thin clear membrane over the ‘whites’ of the eye (sclera) and extends to the inner surface of the eyelids. When a pterygium is present, a fleshy mass is felt or seen on the conjunctiva. SymptomsA pterygium is usually visible on the eye surface although sometimes it may not be noticeable. Smaller and less prominent lesions tend to appear like a little bump on the conjunctiva. However, larger lesions may be significantly elevated with a white to reddish appearance.
Pterygium Removal. A pterygium is a benign growth of the eye's conjunctiva thought caused by excessive and prolonged exposure to ultraviolet light, low humidity, dust and other eye irritants. I had a pterygium in my eye for over 10 years until last year when I had it surgically removed. I wrote this as a personal account of what it's like having pterygium surgery and the associated costs and issues that go along with it. 
I paid about $1500 for the non stitch with amniotic graft. However the doctor did not remove the pterygium and my right eye ended up worse than before the surgery. I had the pterygium in the other eye too. I also paid about $1500 and this time it was successful but I used a different eye doctor. I had a second surgery on my right eye, the doctor removed half of the pterygium and looks like I need another surgery.
Pterygium removal surgery eliminates the abnormal tissue from the cornea and sclera (white of the eye). The older, standard surgical technique left a bare hole in the conjunctiva (the surface of the eye) where the pterygium was removed. Unfortunately, this led to a high rate of pterygium regrowth. A newer technique fills the gap in the conjunctiva left by the removal of the pterygium with a graft of tissue removed from under the eyelid. This graft is then stitched in place. A downside of this approach is that the stitches can cause discomfort while the eye heals. This healing period can last for weeks.
I don’t like the look of my pterygium. If there is no recurrence, it is highly likely that within 6 months after the surgery, you will probably not be able to tell which eye has had surgery. If this surgery is on a pterygium that has already been removed, the cosmetic result may not be as good. However, you will still be left with visible normal blood vessels in the area that are vital to the health of the eye.
There a number of different treatments for a pterygium or pinguecula. Normally, pterygium surgery will only be undertaken if the pterygium has severe symptoms, or is affecting vision. Otherwise, management with eye drops is usually recommended. Many people with a pterygium feel as if there is something in their eye. Pterygium symptoms also include dry eyes, irritation, inflammation and redness. They can also make it more difficult or uncomfortable to wear contact lenses.
The removal of the pterygium may result in a return to normal curvature of your cornea (crystal window of the eye) and this will mean that your old glasses will not be appropriate for the new curvature. If you did not wear glasses before the surgery, it is sometimes necessary to wear glasses afterwards. If this surgery is on a pterygium that has already been removed, the cosmetic result may not be as good. However, you will still be left with visible normal blood vessels in the area that are vital to the health of the eye.
August 5, 2014 - 3:32pm. anyone who can refer a good pterygium surgery doctor that does the glue proceedure and gets the job done right. I had this surgery done in 2010 and i need it again in the same right eye, I just want less complication and the problem solve once and for all. Also at a reasonable cost. I also paid about $1500 and this time it was successful but I used a different eye doctor. I had a second surgery on my right eye, the doctor removed half of the pterygium and looks like I need another surgery.
The surgery consists of removing the pterygium and replacing it with a graft of tissue, which is glued into place. There are no sutures and the procedure is completely painless. Because of the medications you've received, you won't be able to drive yourself home. A newer technique fills the gap in the conjunctiva left by the removal of the pterygium with a graft of tissue removed from under the eyelid. This graft is then stitched in place. A downside of this approach is that the stitches can cause discomfort while the eye heals. This healing period can last for weeks.
Workers involved in any outdoor occupation are at the greatest risk, particularly if they live close to the equator, or at higher altitude such as here in Colorado. Cost of Pterygium Surgery in DenverThe cost of pterygium surgery is typically between $1800-$2000 per eye. It is billable to most insurance providers. The cost of pterygium surgery is typically between $1800-$2000 per eye. It is billable to most insurance providers. SymptomsA pterygium is usually visible on the eye surface although sometimes it may not be noticeable. Smaller and less prominent lesions tend to appear like a little bump on the conjunctiva. However, larger lesions may be significantly elevated with a white to reddish appearance.