Luxury Powder by Ben Nye. (Available in five spectacular shades and three accommodating sizes.). To Shop For Ben Nye Luxury Banana Powder Click Here! Finely milled with superb texture, Ben Nye Luxury powders smooth skin while lightly enhancing skin tones. These powders tend not to clog pores and create a smooth finish over foundation while reducing shine and setting makeup. Expect 50 - 125 applications per 1.5 oz. Please note: The Bella Luxury Powder was formerly called the Visage Powder. Ben Nye does not allow bulk ordering by non-authorized Ben Nye dealers. If you are a school or production company please email info@makeupmania.com for directions to place a school or production order
Banana Powder is basically a Ben Nye Luxury Face Powder and belongs to the Bella Series. I have watched intensely Mario Dedivanovic, Goss Makeup Artist's videos and other tutorials and raves on the Ben Nye BANANA Powder, used to set Kim Kardashians famous under eye concealer and highlight. .
Ben Nye Banana Powder. I had been hearing a lot about this particular product from other makeup artists and decided to try it out. I’m not going to lie, the fact that it is endorsed by Kim K and her makeup artist did sweeten the deal for me! It’s called Ben Nye Luxury Powder. According to the brand, Ben Nye powders are super finely milled with a silky smooth texture that can be used on any skin type. These powders will not clog pores, but they set makeup and reduce shine! Kim Kardashian’s makeup artist uses this powder to set her highligh
INSTAGRAM: BEAUTYMARK85. Like me on FACEBOOK for the most current makeup and fashion tips! Product List: Ben Nye Banana Powder. Latex Sponge Wedges. Fan Brush. 1  Howto & Style. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
Ben Nye Classic Translucent Powders are silky translucent shades that provide a matte finish with just a hint of colour. They retain the intensity of bright and dark shades. Special makeup formula controls perspiration, making this perfect for high energy performers such as clowns or dancers. I have watched intensely Mario Dedivanovic, Goss Makeup Artist's videos and other tutorials and raves on the Ben Nye BANANA Powder, used to set Kim Kardashians famous under eye concealer and highlight. .
THUMBS UP FOR BEN NYE SETTING POWDER REVIEW! Many people have wanted to see how I used my Ben Nye Banana Setting powder that I purchased at IMATS. I use it more as a highlight setting powder, because it helps give it a more glowy look. I believe that it would look better on medium to tan..maybe even deeper skin tones...not too sure about fair skin tones!! Ben Nye Powders do come in various shades. :). Here's one website that you can order from: http://www.fxsupply.com/bn_catalog/bn... Products Used in Video: Ben Nye Banana Setting Powder. NYX concealer in a pot- 06 Glow. Sleek Contour Kit-Medium. *FTC-All items were purchased by me.
Use either a makeup brush or a makeup sponge to apply Ben Nye Banana Powder. Using a makeup sponge allows a smoother and more evenly blended finish. First, shake the powder into the cap or onto the plate. The powder comes in a shaker with a screw-off lid. Because Ben Nye Banana Powder is translucent with a matte finish, many women opt to use it as a finishing powder over the entirety of the face. If using this in conjunction with contouring, be sure to only use a light dusting of banana powder over the rest of the face, otherwise the contouring does not stand out.
Ben Nye Banana Luxury Powder is a finely milled translucent setting powder with a hint of yellow to it. Because of the slight yellow cast, women find that it works well to set concealer under the eyes. The most common use of the banana powder is as a contour powder, highlighting under the eyes and in the T-zone. Because Ben Nye Banana Powder is translucent with a matte finish, many women opt to use it as a finishing powder over the entirety of the face. If using this in conjunction with contouring, be sure to only use a light dusting of banana powder over the rest of the face, otherwise the contouring does not stand out.