When carbon monoxide passes through the lungs, it enters the red blood cells and binds to hemoglobin in the same place as oxygen. This forms carboxyhemoglobin, which interferes with the transportation and gas exchange of oxygen in the red blood cells.
When you breathe in carbon monoxide, the CO also binds to hemoglobin. It binds so strongly that is keeps oxygen from binding as well. Over time, if you breathe enough carbon monoxide, it binds to all of the hemoglobin in your body, and you no longer have enough oxygen in your blood.
Consider a simple molecular bond such as that in carbon monoxide (CO). This molecule has 2 nuclei and 6+8 = 14 electrons around these nuclei. The usual Lewis electron-dot structure for CO is (recall that the Lewis structure contains only the valence electrons):
Types of carbon monoxide detectors. A carbon monoxide detector is your only line of protection against the many potential sources of carbon monoxide in your home or at work. Detectors are also refered to as alarms, monitors, meters, and testers.
The second type of carbon monoxide monitor has biomimetic sensors. These sensors are discs coated with a special gel that turns dark when carbon monoxide comes into contact with them. A change in color is what triggers the alarm.
Carbon monoxide is a simple diatomic molecule that illustrates how two different atoms interact to form molecular orbitals (MO). The oxygen atom and the carbon atom have an s and three p orbitals each. For clarity, we draw the atomic orbitals of oxygen in red, and those on carbon in black (see below).
Carbon monoxide, CO, is a colourless toxic gas which is formed when carbon is burned in a deficiency of oxygen. It is also formed when carbon is used as a reducing agent, for example producing phosphorus from phosphate rock.
Since a single carbon atom has 6 electrons around it and a single oxygen atom has 8 electrons around it, one might expect that in the CO molecule carbon has 6 electrons around it and oxygen has 8 electrons around it. However, that does not turn out to be the case.