Sicily: Annual Weather Averages. August is the hottest month in Sicily with an average temperature of 22°C (72°F) and the coldest is January at 9°C (48°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 14 in July. The wettest month is December with an average of 78.6mm of rain. 
Sea Temperature. 25°C (77°F) in July. The average maximum daytime temperature in Sicily in July is a hot 30°C (86°F), while the average minimum night-time temperature is a warm 22°C (72°F). On average 4 mm (0.2 inches) of rain normally falls in Sicily during July with rain falling on 1 days of the month. You can expect on average 11 hours of sunshine a day in Sicily during July.
Check the Weather in Taormina, Sicily in July before you book your next holiday. This gives the best indication of the weather in July and includes figures for temperature, sunshine and rainfall. 
Wet days in July are not very common, but when they occur, the may help the temperature to drop by a fraction. In Southern Italy and the seacoast, including Palermo, the temperatures are definitely at their the highest. In July, they remain between 23 to 35 degrees Celsius (74 to 95 degrees Fahrenheit). For some, this temperature would be too hot to bear. Rain is not very common at this time of the year. 
Sicily Weather by Month. Select a month from the list below to see the Sicily weather for a particular month. The monthly weather averages are the best indication of conditions in each month and are based on long-term (30 year) climate statistics. On average 4 mm (0.2 inches) of rain normally falls in Sicily during July with rain falling on 1 days of the month. You can expect on average 11 hours of sunshine a day in Sicily during July.
Check the Weather in Sicily in July before you book your next holiday. This gives the best indication of the weather in July and includes figures for temperature, sunshine and rainfall. The Sicily july weather guide shown below is for Palermo. 1  28°C max day temperature
Weather lowdown. The weather in Sicily in July is glorious with long, hot, sunny days and balmy evenings, much like in Taormina. During this month, temperatures can reach a scorching 29°C during the day, so make sure you bring plenty of suntan lotion with you. Stragusto takes place in Trapani in July, when you can enjoy typical Sicilian delicacies sold from street vendors, as well as enjoy talented street performers and musicians. Things to do. The Favignana Islands and the Egadi islands off of Sicily are just begging to be explored.
Foodies will be pleased to hear that Sicily celebrates many food festivals throughout the year. Stragusto takes place in Trapani in July, when you can enjoy typical Sicilian delicacies sold from street vendors, as well as enjoy talented street performers and musicians. Things to do. The Favignana Islands and the Egadi islands off of Sicily are just begging to be explored.
25°C (77°F) in July. The average maximum daytime temperature in Sicily in July is a hot 30°C (86°F), while the average minimum night-time temperature is a warm 22°C (72°F). On average 4 mm (0.2 inches) of rain normally falls in Sicily during July with rain falling on 1 days of the month. You can expect on average 11 hours of sunshine a day in Sicily during July.