Cytokines, predominantly IL-4, IL-5, and IL-6, signal the B cell to divide and differentiate into antibody-secreting plasma cells. In a primary immune response, IgM is secreted before isotype switching occurs and is the predominant isotype produced. 
The secondary response involves mainly memory cells, this is the response that occurs on the second entrance of a microorganism or virus that has been encountered before and dealt with by the primary response. The primary immune system is also called innate immunity or auxiliary immunity because it is unspecific and present in everyone. These include physical and chemical barriers t … hat protect the body from many different microscopic organisms. --Skin (and hair) acts as a large physical barrier.
Humoral immunity, also called the antibody-mediated beta cellularis immune system, is the aspect of immunity that is mediated by macromolecules (as opposed to cell-mediated immunity) found in extracellular fluids such as secreted antibodies, complement proteins and certain antimicrobial peptides. 
Every effective immune response involves T-cell activation; however, T-cells are especially important in cell-mediated immunity, which is the defense against tumor cells and pathogenic organisms inside body cells. The immune system is a complex system of interacting cells whose primary purpose is to identify foreign (“non-self”) substances referred to as antigens. The immune system provides protection from infectious disease by identify most of these microbes as foreign.
Thus humoral immunity involves the production of antibodies by plasma cells and this constitutes the primary immune response. When there is an exposure to the same antigen second time, the memory B cells are alerted and rapidly differentiate into plasma cells that produces antibodies. This constitutes the secondary immune response.
The immune response occurring on the first exposure to a foreign material in the body. This reaction is by both the innate and acquired immune system, the innate acting first (non specific) and the acquired developing to produce antibodies and T killer cells specific to the invading microorganism. The primary immune system is also called innate immunity or auxiliary immunity because it is unspecific and present in everyone. These include physical and chemical barriers t … hat protect the body from many different microscopic organisms. --Skin (and hair) acts as a large physical barrier.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) involves an immune-mediated process in which an abnormal response of the body’s immune system is directed against the central nervous system (CNS), which is made up of the brain, spinal cord and optic nerves. 
Lymphocytes are white blood cells, which includes B cells and T cells. 1  B cells produce antibodies. 2  Antibodies attach to a specific antigen and make it easier for the immune cells to destroy the antigen. 3  T cells attack antigens directly and help control of the immune response. Lymphocytes are white blood cells, which includes B cells and T cells. 1  B cells produce antibodies. 2
The bone marrow and thymus represent training grounds for two cells of the immune system (B-cells and T-cells, respectively). The development of all cells of the immune system begins in the bone marrow with a hematopoietic (blood-forming) stem cell (Figure 2). Mature T-cells leave the thymus and populate other organs of the immune system, such as the spleen, lymph nodes, bone marrow and blood. Each T-cell reacts with a specific antigen, just as each antibody molecule reacts with a specific antigen.
antigen specific immunity attributable to the production of antibody and of specific immune T lymphocytes (responsible for cell-mediated immunity), following exposure to an antigen, or passive transfer of antibody or immune lymphoid cells (adoptive immunity). active immunity. humoral immunity. n. The component of the immune response involving the transformation of B cells into plasma cells that produce and secrete antibodies to a specific antigen.