Montan wax is a fossilized plant wax found in lignite, which is a low-grade coal. The best deposits of lignite are found in the eastern part of Germany, Russia and China. For economic extraction, the wax must occur in lignite to the extent of 10 to 15 percent. Montan wax is said to have many properties similar to vegetable waxes especially carnauba wax. Advantages over other waxes include sharp melting point characteristics, water repelling property and hardness.
Definition of MONTAN WAX. : a hard brittle mineral wax obtained usually from lignites by extraction and used especially in polishes, carbon paper, and insulating compositions. ADVERTISEMENT. Latin montanus of a mountain.
BLACKFIRE BlackICE Hybrid Montan Sealant Wax is a synthesis of German-sourced, color-charged montan wax and genuine Brazilian carnauba wax designed to bestow a dimension of gloss on black and dark colors that mimics the appearance of wet paint. BLACKFIRE BlackICE Hybrid Montan Sealant Wax imparts a level of gloss worthy of a show-car and a level of paint-protection required for a daily driver. BLACKFIRE BlackICE Hybrid Montan Sealant Wax will provide up to 5 months of paint protection on vehicles that have been properly clayed and polished first.
Montan wax is said to be one of the most resistant waxes to oxidation. Another advantage is its stable pricing compared to the volatility of carnauba wax. Crude montan wax is basically an aged carnauba wax, says Mr. Lindenau. Its advantage over waxes like carnauba wax is its stable pricing, and its cost is 10 percent to 40 percent lower compared to carnauba wax.. Montan wax is said to have many properties similar to vegetable waxes especially carnauba wax. Advantages over other waxes include sharp melting point characteristics, water repelling property and hardness.
Due to its good physical and chemical properties, montan wax is often an ideal substitute for the expensive Carnauba Wax. It is widely used in daily chemical industry, wax polish industry, carbon paper industry, electrical industry, machinery industry and many other industries using wax. As we all know, The crude montan wax of low quality contains a high content of bitumen, and the ash content is an important part of the bitumen in montan wax, when bitumen content of the montan wax is 14%, the ash content is 3.5% -4.5% [18] .
Montan Waxes – when performance counts. Montan waxes are among the hardest natural waxes on earth and are used as high performance additives in the plastics industry, for example, due to their unique properties. They often serve as lubricating, nucleation and dispersing agents in many types of plastics and processing methods. 
Strohmeyer & Arpe is the exclusive North American importer of German montan wax -- both crude Romonta and S&A bleached wax. Montan is a naturally occurring bituminous wax found in brown or lignite coal deposits. It is hard, non-toxic and resistant to decomposition. Montan wax has many other applications, including its use in emulsions, as an asphalt additive, in investment casting and leather finishing, as a bonding agent in road building materials, and as an additive in paper making and lubricant manufacture.