Rome: Annual Weather Averages. July is the hottest month in Rome with an average temperature of 26°C (78°F) and the coldest is January at 8°C (46°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 14 in July. The wettest month is December with an average of 96mm of rain. 
The weather in Rome during the autumn months can be quite wet, with around 4 inches of rain each month, and rain every few days on average. However, temperatures are still pleasantly mild and the historic sites are less crowded, so this is definitely an appealing time of year for your Roman visit. Temperatures in March and April tend to be a comfortable 15-18°C but it can rain on as many as 1 in 3 days, so take a lightweight jacket or an umbrella. As the spring flowers bloom, Rome's parks become especially beautiful, and it's often the perfect weather for picnics.
Italian climate, average temperatures, rainfall, hours of sunshine, regional climate italy, weather forecasts italy, climate variations italy. Profile Menu. The Climate of Italy. Italy is a country of extremely varied landscapes and consequently experiences a similarly varied climate. In Sardinia and Sicily, there is an average of 4 hours of sunshine a day during the winter and 9 hours a day in the summer.
Rome's weather varies from very hot in the summer to distinctly cool in the winter, and rather damp in the autumn. However, the weather is rarely severe or disruptive, and so your preferred season for visiting Rome will largely depend on what you want to get from your holiday. Temperatures in March and April tend to be a comfortable 15-18°C but it can rain on as many as 1 in 3 days, so take a lightweight jacket or an umbrella. As the spring flowers bloom, Rome's parks become especially beautiful, and it's often the perfect weather for picnics.
Koeppen-Geiger classification: The climate of italy is classified as Csa climate; a warm temperated mediterranean climate with dry, warm summers and moderate, wet winters with the warmest month above 22°C over average. 
Although much of the country has slightly varied weather patterns the southern parts of Greece, and the Greek islands, follow a typical Mediterranean climate. The average temperature in summer rises from the mid-20s (77 degrees Fahrenheit) into the mid-30s (95 degrees Fahrenheit). With a Mediterranean climate, Greece enjoys a weather pattern of hot dry summers and cool to mild winters with some rain. Situated in south-eastern Europe, Greece borders the Mediterranean sea to the south as well as the Ionian Sea and the Aegean Sea to the west and east respectively.
July is the hottest month in Venice with an average temperature of 23°C (73°F) and the coldest is January at 3°C (37°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 13 in July. The wettest month is June with an average of 90mm of rain. 
As can be imagined, the south of Italy has the least rain and the most hours of sunshine of any other area in Italy. In Sardinia and Sicily, there is an average of 4 hours of sunshine a day during the winter and 9 hours a day in the summer. Italian Wind Directions Live weather forecast for Italy Climate in Abruzzo
During March, April and May, Venice warms up quickly after its winter. Temperatures rise from a chilly 8°C in March to 17 or 18°C on average by the end of May, although nights are always cooler. Spring is a little rainy at times, with between 5-8 days of rain a month, but it's nothing an umbrella can't cope with. Winter is a magical time to visit Venice, with Christmas lights twinkling on the water, Christmas markets and midnight mass at St Mark's basilica. If you're planning to visit Venice in the winter, take warm sweaters and a good coat, as daytime temperatures struggle up only as high as 3-4°C.