Definition. Whooping cough, also known as pertussis, is a highly contagious disease which causes classic spasms (paroxysms) of uncontrollable coughing, followed by a sharp, high-pitched intake of air which creates the characteristic whoop of the disease's name.
Also Known as (AKA): Whoopie Doopies. Known aliases: Bordetella pertussis (the bacteria that cause pertussis illness); whooping cough (for the whoop sound of someone gasping for air after a coughing spell). Microbe type: bacterium. 
Back to Top Causes. Pertussis, or whooping cough, is an upper respiratory infection caused by the Bordetella pertussis or Bordetella parapertussis bacteria. It is a serious disease that can cause permanent disability in infants, and even death. 
Whooping cough, also known as pertussis, is a bacterial infection of the respiratory tract that causes severe coughing. Whooping cough is caused by the bacterium Bordetella pertussis. The microbes attach to tiny hairs in the respiratory tract called cilia, and release toxins that can cause swelling and damage cilia, according to the CDC.
Causes. Pertussis, a respiratory illness commonly known as whooping cough, is a very contagious disease caused by a type of bacteria called Bordetella pertussis. These bacteria attach to the cilia (tiny, hair-like extensions) that line part of the upper respiratory system. 
Bordetella pertussis is a Gram-negative, aerobic coccobacillus capsulate of the genus Bordetella, and the causative agent of pertussis or whooping cough. Unlike B. bronchiseptica, B. pertussis is not motile. Pertussis [edit]. Pertussis (or whooping cough) is an infection of the respiratory system characterized by a “whooping” sound when the person breathes in. In the US, it killed between 10,000 and 20,000 people per year before a vaccine was available.
Pertussis (or whooping cough) is an infection of the respiratory system characterized by a “whooping” sound when the person breathes in. Pertussis [edit]. Pertussis (or whooping cough) is an infection of the respiratory system characterized by a “whooping” sound when the person breathes in. In the US, it killed between 10,000 and 20,000 people per year before a vaccine was available.