Confidence votes 12. The Dutch founded settlements on the shores of what is now the United States. In 1621, the Dutch founded the colony of New Netherland (present day Albany and New York City). I think they were searching for new lands, because they heard about the other European countries that had success in this. Also, they were searching for new shores so they could turn them into harbors for new trade routes. 
New Amsterdam (Dutch: Nieuw-Amsterdam) was a 17th-century Dutch settlement established at the southern tip of Manhattan Island, which served as the seat of the colonial government in New Netherland territory. New Amsterdam's beginnings, unlike most other colonies in the New World, were thoroughly documented in city maps. During the time of New Netherland's colonization, the Dutch were Europe's pre-eminent cartographers.
New Amsterdam was renamed New York on September 8, 1664, in honor of the then Duke of York (later James II of England), in whose name the English had captured it. In 1667 the Dutch gave up their claim to the town and the rest of the colony, in exchange for control of the Spice Islands. New Amsterdam's beginnings, unlike most other colonies in the New World, were thoroughly documented in city maps. During the time of New Netherland's colonization, the Dutch were Europe's pre-eminent cartographers.
New Netherland was the first Dutch colony in North America. It extended from Albany, New York, in the north to Delaware in the south and encompassed parts of what are now the states of New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Connecticut, and Delaware. The Dutch claim to this territory derived from their sponsorship of Henry Hudson’s voyages of exploration.
For financial reasons and to expand their mercantile resources. The main reason the Dutch came to New Netherland was for the fur trade with the Native Americans. The colon … y was originally established as a business venture to enable the Dutch West India Company to take a share of the trade in North American furs. The Dutch settled New Amsterdam to expand their commercial and mercantile network.
In 1621, a new trading firm was established: the Dutch West India Company, which was more willing to capitalize on the resources of North America than the East India Company had been. Amsterdam was the world financial center and the Dutch fleet the greatest in the world. Dutch ships were present in most ports of the known world, and Dutch captains were responsible for taking control of the Spice Islands (the Moluccas) in eastern Indonesia, and for discovering Australia and New Zealand.
The Dutch were the first Europeans to establish a settlement along the Hudson River between the Connecticut and Delaware Rivers. Their stockade, called the village of Bergen, is regarded as New Jersey's first permanent settlement and the genesis of the present Jersey City. After forty years in America, the Dutch failed to establish a successful colony at New Netherland. Several factors were responsible: First, the concept of patroonship failed to lure settlers. As a result, settlers of diverse nationalities and religions populated the colony.
Following its capture, New Amsterdam’s name was changed to New York, in honor of the Duke of York, who organized the mission. The colony of New Netherland was established by the Dutch West India Company in 1624 and grew to encompass all of present-day New York City and parts of Long Island, Connecticut, and New Jersey. 
During its first decades, New Netherland was settled rather slowly, partially as a result of policy mismanagement by the Dutch West India Company (WIC) and partially as a result of conflicts with Native Americans. In 1673, the Dutch re-took the area but relinquished it under the Second Treaty of Westminster ending the Third Anglo-Dutch War the next year. The inhabitants of New Netherland were Native Americans, Europeans, and Africans, the latter chiefly imported as enslaved laborers.
On September 8, 1664, the Dutch surrendered the colony of New Netherland to the English, who subsequently renamed it New York after the king’s brother, the Duke of York. Yet despite losing power 350 years ago, Dutch cultural influence persists to this day. Based on his voyage, however, the Dutch claimed parts of present-day New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Connecticut and Delaware for the colony of New Netherland. Hudson, meanwhile, died in 1611 following a mutiny in which he was set adrift on a small lifeboat in the Canadian Arctic. 2.