For the marketing term, see Carrying cost. The cost of carry or carrying charge is the cost of storing a physical commodity, such as grain or metals, over a period of time. The carrying charge includes insurance, storage and interest on the invested funds as well as other incidental costs. Storage costs (generally expressed as a percentage of the spot price) should be added to the cost of carry for physical commodities such as corn, wheat, or gold. The cost of carry model expresses the forward price (or, as an approximation, the futures price) as a function of the spot price and the cost of carry.
The cost of carry summarizes the relationship between the futures price and the spot price. It is the cost of carrying or holding a position from the date of entering into the transaction upto the date of maturity. 
A put option is in-the-money if the underlying security's price is less than the strike price. Only in-the-money options have intrinsic value. It represents the difference between the current price of the underlying security and the option's exercise price, or strike price. The effect of an underlying security's dividends and the current risk-free interest rate has a small but measurable effect on option premiums. This effect reflects the cost to carry shares in an underlying security.
Forward Price Calculator. For call and put options, the cost of carry has different effects on the price of the option. As interest rates increase, the forward price of the asset also increases, however, the effect on the option premium differs for calls and puts. The second way that interest rates effect the pricing of option contracts is in the discounting of the premium. The price of an option contract is a future value. I.e. it estimates what the value of the instrument will be at some date in the future.
In derivates market, the cost of carry (CoC) of a futures contract is the cost incurred on holding positions in the underlying security until the expiry of the futures. The cost includes the risk free interest rate and excludes any dividend payouts from the underlying. CoC is the difference between the futures and spot prices of a stock or index. It is commonly used to interpret market sentiment for the stock or index, as higher values of CoC indicate traders are willing to pay more for holding futures. In the case of commodity futures, CoC also includes other expenses like storage.
A contango is normal for a non-perishable commodity that has a cost of carry. Such costs include warehousing fees and interest forgone on money tied up (or the time-value-of money, etc.), less income from leasing out the commodity if possible (e.g. gold). 
BREAKING DOWN 'Cost Of Carry'. Cost to carry may not be an extremely high financial cost if it is effectively managed. For example, the longer a position is made on margin, the more interest payments will need to be made on the account