1 Support a robust U.S. manufacturing economy. 2  Abundant, reasonably priced energy can make a critical contribution to economic success. 3  Moreover, as the United States invests in its own new energy economy, it will build industries capable of exporting to the rest of the world. 
Geothermal is a clean and renewable energy source. Almost 70 percent of the countries where geothermal utilization has been recorded are developing or transitional countries. The potential for geothermal energy use to improve living standards in those countries is thus very high. With strong international cooperation and support from industrialized countries, geothermal energy can play a great part in helping developing nations to achieve the MDGs by simultaneously battling climate change and improving living standards.
1 Renewable energy devopment promotes investments in the U.S. economy. 2  In 2012, wind power made up 42 percent of all new U.S. electric capacity additions, representing a $25 billion investment in the U.S. economy. MAP: Renewable Electricity Standards by State. 1 
We've got work to do! The U.S. doesn't crack the top 10 of the world's most energy-efficient economies: http://www.fastcoexist.com/3033186/the-worlds-most-energy-efficient-countries. Germany is the most energy-efficient major economy, according to a new report. Number 2: Italy. 3. Using less energy to do the same amount of work—i.e. energy efficiency—remains a massively underutilized energy resource, according to a new report. The American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy analyzed 16 major economies in 16 categories related to both public policy and performance.
Campaigns like this are aimed at spreading awareness about the potential for renewable energy. But many countries throughout the world have already made the switch, and, as a result, have seen the immediate impact that renewable energy can have. For example, by 2050, Germany could be using 100 percent renewable energy. As a result, the country will save billions in importing energy. 
Renewable energy — and its economic benefits — can be increased by adopting strong policies and making smart investments in our electricity system. Together with smart complementary policies, state RES policies can help maintain the nation's momentum toward a clean and prosperous clean energy economy. MAP: Renewable Electricity Standards by State. 1  Renewable energy devopment promotes investments in the U.S. economy. 2  In 2012, wind power made up 42 percent of all new U.S. electric capacity additions, representing a $25 billion investment
Today renewable technologies are the most economical solution for new capacity in a growing number of countries and regions, and are typically the most economic solution for new grid-connected capacity where good resources are available. • Citigroup: The age of renewable energy is beginning. Given the incredible renewable energy potential the world has, the millions of jobs that could be created and millions of lives that could be saved from air pollution and other hazards of the current energy system, the benefits of a clean energy future are undisputable.
Energy Sector. The U.S. energy infrastructure fuels the economy of the 21st century. Without a stable energy supply, health and welfare are threatened, and the U.S. economy cannot function.
An estimate of the total value of goods and services produced in a country, GDP aims to best capture the true monetary value of our economy. It is defined by the ONS as the sum total of the final output an economy produces.. For example, headline GDP numbers are often quoted as indicating whether a country is growing and by how much. But should our total output increase at the same rate as our population, there is likely to be no resultant rise in our material well-being. This is exactly what seems to have happened in the UK.
An economy (Greek οίκος-household and νέμoμαι - manage) or economic system consists of the production, distribution or trade, and consumption of limited goods and services by different agents in a given geographical location. 