A protease (also called peptidase or proteinase) is any enzyme that performs proteolysis, that is, begins protein catabolism by hydrolysis of the peptide bonds that link amino acids together in a polypeptide chain. Proteases have evolved multiple times, and different classes of protease can perform the same reaction by completely different catalytic mechanisms. Proteases can be found in animals, plants, bacteria, archaea and viruses.
Protease. Any enzyme that breaks down protein into its building blocks, amino acids, is called a protease, which is a general term. Your digestive tract produces a number of these enzymes, but the three main proteases are pepsin, trypsin and chymotrypsin.
By Steven Hefferon, CMT, PTA, CPRS. Proteolytic enzymes, also referred to as proteases, are enzymes that break down proteins into their smallest elements. If this breakdown of proteins happens in your gut, we call the enzymes digestive, because they help us digest our food. The most important thing that systemic proteolytic enzymes do is to break down excess fibrin in your circulatory system and in other connective tissue, such as your muscles. These enzymes bring nutrients and oxygen-rich blood that remove the metabolic waste produced by inflammation and excess fibrin.
(1). Proteolytic enzymes or protease can be used, in part, to digest complete proteins that are in meat. Yet, outside of meals, they have been harnessed for a multitude of healing processes, sometimes exclusively and sometimes in conjunction with other therapies. 
Proteolytic enzymes (proteases) help you digest the proteins in food. Although your body produces these enzymes in the pancreas, certain foods also contain proteolytic enzymes. Papaya and pineapple are two of the richest plant sources, as attested by their traditional use as natural tenderizers for meat.
Although amylase, protease and lipase are the three main enzymes your body uses to digest food, many other specialized enzymes also help in the process. Cells that line your intestines make enzymes called maltase, sucrase and lactase, each able to convert a specific type of sugar into glucose. Any enzyme that breaks down protein into its building blocks, amino acids, is called a protease, which is a general term. Your digestive tract produces a number of these enzymes, but the three main proteases are pepsin, trypsin and chymotrypsin.
120 capsules. $39.95. Systemic Enzyme. High protease supports circulation, immunity, and healthy elimination. Introduction. Protease refers to a group of enzymes whose catalytic function is to hydrolyze (breakdown) peptide bonds of proteins. They are also called proteolytic enzymes or proteinases. Proteases differ in their ability to hydrolyze various peptide bonds. Each type of protease has a specific kind of peptide bonds it breaks. Examples of proteases include: fungal protease, pepsin, trypsin, chymotrypsin, papain, bromelain, and subtilisin.
Share. Protease (also known as a proteolytic enzyme, peptidase or proteinase) is a type of enzyme that functions mainly to help us digest different kinds of proteins. They break down the bonds by a process known as hydrolysis and convert proteins into smaller chains called peptides or even smaller units called amino acids. 