Average Radiologic Technologist salaries for job postings in Georgia are 14% higher than average Radiologic Technologist salaries for job postings nationwide. 
Radiologic Technologist Salary. (United States). Median pay for Radiologic Technologists in the United States is around $21.49 per hour. Earnings sit near $16.45 per hour on the lower side but can approach $29.81 on the higher side. Pay by Experience Level for Radiologic Technologist. Median of all compensation (including tips, bonus, and overtime) by years of experience. For Radiologic Technologists, experience does not seem to be a major factor in determining pay. Although individuals who have less than five years' experience earn $42K on average, people with five to 10 years benefit from a notably larger average of $47K
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Radiologic Technologist in the United States is $25 an hour, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Radiologic Technologist in the United States are expected to make less than $25. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. 3  Benefits. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Radiologic Technologist that make less than that hourly rate. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Radiologic Technologist are expected to make less than the median.
Rad Tech Salary: $64,450 a year. Average pay for rad techs is $64,450 per annum, which is 35% higher than the US median income. A radiographer makes an average of $5,371 per month; $1,239 a week and $30.99 an hour. Salary by State. Massachusetts is one of the best state based on annual income. A medical radiographer here can make average $90,080 per year, which mean $7,507 a month; $1,732 per week and $43.31 an hour.
Radiologic Technologist Salary in 2013. A. ccording to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), a majority of radiology technologists work in hospitals (about 61 percent as of 2010) and may work nights, weekends, or for emergencies. Level of education and geographic location will influence the salary ranges of most technologists. Below are detailed comparisons of each state’s average annual salary for radiology technologist. It is important to know that even if a state has a high salary, some geographic areas in that state may have lower salaries. For example, the state of New York may have a very high salary for its
The average wage for a Radiologic Technologist in Atlanta, Georgia is $22.51 per hour. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this career. For the first five to ten years in this position, wages increase modestly, but any additional experience does not have a big effect on pay. $39,565 - $79,673. X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job.
Home to some of the best pay for Radiologic Technologists, Los Angeles offers exceptional salaries, 35 percent above the national average. Radiologic Technologists can also look forward to large paychecks in cities like San Diego (+32 percent), New York (+28 percent), Seattle (+21 percent), and Boston (+21 percent). Pay by Experience Level for Radiologic Technologist. Median of all compensation (including tips, bonus, and overtime) by years of experience. For Radiologic Technologists, experience does not seem to be a major factor in determining pay. Although individuals who have less than five years' experience earn $42K on average, people with five to 10 years benefit from a notably larger average of $47K
The hourly wages for someone with the job title Radiologic Technologist may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Radiologic Technologist that make less than that hourly rate. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Radiologic Technologist are expected to make less than the median.
$78,000. Average Radiologic Technologist salaries for job postings in Atlanta, GA are 25% higher than average Radiologic Technologist salaries for job postings nationwide.