Dermatofbrosarcoma Protuberans, also known as DFSP, is an uncommon soft-tissue tumor that develops in the skin. DFSP skin cancers develop in the middle (Dermis) layer of skin and can push through to the top layer of skin. It can start as a small bump or tough patch on the skin surface. 
This condition is a type of soft tissue sarcoma, which are cancers that affect skin, fat, muscle, and similar tissues. In dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans, the tumor most often starts as a small, firm patch of skin, usually 1 to 5 centimeters in diameter, that is usually purplish, reddish, or flesh-colored. The tumor typically grows slowly and can become a raised nodule. There are several variants of dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans in which different cell types are involved in the tumor. Bednar tumors, often called pigmented dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans, contain dark-colored (pigmented) cells called melanin-containing dendritic cells.
Dermatofibrosarcoma Protuberans is a rare tumor arising on the dermis of the skin. It can sometimes become a sarcoma, a type of malignant tumor developing from the connective tissue of the muscle or the bone. It is regarded as one of the four major kinds of cancer in such cases. Dermatofibrosarcoma Protuberans tumors arise due to a rapid division of cells which eventually results in an abnormal mass on the skin. Two specific genes, the growth-factor gene and the collagen gene, fuse to produce a growth factor that stimulates the abnormal growth of the tumor.
Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP) is a relatively uncommon soft tissue neoplasm of intermediate-to low-grade malignancy. Metastasis rarely occurs. DFSP is a locally aggressive tumor with a high recurrence rate. Pathophysiology. Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP) is a cutaneous malignancy that arises from the dermis and invades deeper tissue (eg, fat, fascia, muscle, bone). The cellular origin of DFSP is not clear. Evidence supports the cellular origin being fibroblastic, histiocytic, or neuroectodermal
1 Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans: A rare form of slow growing tumor that develops deep in the skin. 2  Metastatis is rare but it often regrows after being surgically removed. 3  It occurs mostly on the trunk, shoulders and chest. 1 It occurs mostly on the trunk, shoulders and chest. 2  Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans: An intermediate cutaneous fibrohistiocytic neoplasm, presenting as a nodular cutaneous mass, most often on the trunk and the proximal extremities. 3  The tumor diffusely infiltrates the dermis and the subcutaneous tissues.
Dermatofibrosarcoma Protuberans (DFSP) is a rare type of cancer, a soft tissue sarcoma that develops in the deep layers of skin. It is sometimes described as having tentacles that can grow into surrounding fat, muscle and even bone. 1 Rarely, the tumors involved in the different types of DFSP can have regions that look familiar to fibrosarcoma, a more aggressive type of soft tissue sarcoma. 2  In these cases, the condition is called Fibrosarcomatous (FS) DFSP. 3  These tumors are more likely to metastasize than tumors in the other types of DFSP.
Dermatofibrosarcoma Protuberans is a rare soft tissue growth that is slow-growing, not often metastasize (less than 4% of total number of cases), in some cases of spreading, the lungs are the most common direction. It frequently recurs or remains. It can enter both the muscle and bone. 
Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans is diagnosed with a biopsy, when a portion of the tumor is removed for examination. In order to ensure that enough tissue is removed to make an accurate diagnosis, the initial biopsy of a suspected DFSP is usually done with a core needle or a surgical incision. Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans begins as a minor firm area of skin most commonly about to 1 to 5 cm in diameter. It is a slow growing tumor and is usually found on the torso but can also be found on the arms, legs, head and neck.
Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP) is a very rare tumor. It is a rare neoplasm of the dermis layer of the skin, and is classified as a sarcoma. There is only about one case per million per year. DFSP is a fibrosarcoma, more precisely a cutaneous soft tissue sarcoma. Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans begins as a minor firm area of skin most commonly about to 1 to 5 cm in diameter. It is a slow growing tumor and is usually found on the torso but can also be found on the arms, legs, head and neck.