The disease and how it affects people. Ringworm is a contagious skin disease, in which the scalp (tinea capitis), nails (tinea unguium), feet (tinea pedis or “athlete's foot”), or body (tinea corporis) can be affected. Despite its name, ringworm is caused by a fungus
Ringworm is a skin infection caused by a fungus that can affect the scalp, skin, fingers, toe nails or foot. With ringworm of the nails, the affected nails become thicker, discolored and brittle, or they become chalky and disintegrate. Ringworm of the body appears as flat, spreading ring-shaped areas. The edge is reddish and may be either dry and scaly or moist and crusted.
RINGWORM (TINEA) PROCEDURE-Ringworm is caused by a fungus, not a worm. It often has the appearance of a “ring” It can be passed from one person to the next by direct skin-to-skin contact or by contact with contaminated items such as combs, unwashed clothing, and shower or pool surfaces. 
Girl next to dog. Both have red round patches on their skin. Ringworm is a skin and scalp disease caused by fungi. It gets its name from the characteristic ring-like rash on the skin. The disease is spread by touching an infected person or animal. It can also be spread by touching objects or surfaces that had contact with the infection. If infected, people often begin itching four to fourteen days after contact.
Ringworm (Tinea). Ringworm or Tinea is a typically mild disease of the skin, scalp or nails caused by a fungus. Personal hygiene, supported by availability of adequate quantities of water are important preventive measures. Ringworm is a contagious skin disease, in which the scalp (tinea capitis), nails (tinea unguium), feet (tinea pedis or “athlete's foot”), or body (tinea corporis) can be affected.
1 Treatment for Ringworm with Antifungal Creams Ringworm, also known as tinea corporis, is a fungal infection of the skin that generally, although not always, presents in the shape of a ring. Tuberculosis (also called TB) is highly contageous (communicable).  This disease is spread through the air, when a person who is  carrying the TB bacteria coughs or sneezes; … generally, it is  necessary for prolonged exposure to such a person, in order for  others to get infected.
Ringworm. Ringworm is a common skin infection that is caused by a fungus. It’s called “ringworm” because it can cause a circular rash (shaped like a ring) that is usually red and itchy. Anyone can get ringworm. The fungi that cause this infection can live on skin, surfaces, and on household items such as clothing, towels, and bedding. The medical terms are “tinea” or “dermatophytosis.” Other names for ringworm are based on its location on the body – for example, ringworm on the feet is also called “athlete’s foot.”. For other fungal topics, visit the fungal diseases homepage.