The word quantum derives from the Latin, meaning how great or how much. In quantum mechanics, it refers to a discrete unit assigned to certain physical quantities such as the energy of an atom at rest (see Figure 1). Quantum mechanics gradually arose from Max Planck 's solution in 1900 to the black-body radiation problem (reported 1859) and Albert Einstein 's 1905 paper which offered a quantum-based theory to explain the photoelectric effect (reported 1887). Early quantum theory was significantly reformulated in the mid-1920s.
• QUANTUM (noun). The noun QUANTUM has 2 senses: 1. a discrete amount of something that is analogous to the quantum in quantum theory. 2. (physics) the smallest discrete quantity of some physical property that a system can possess (according to quantum theory). Familiarity information: QUANTUM used as a noun is rare. Dictionary entry details
quantum mechanics. noun plural but singular or plural in construction. Tweet. physics: a branch of physics that deals with the structure and behavior of very small pieces of matter. 
The energy of an electron bound to an atom is quantized, which results in the stability of atoms, and hence of matter in general. As incorporated into the theory of quantum mechanics, this is regarded by physicists as part of the fundamental framework for understanding and describing nature. This means that the magnitude can take on only certain discrete values. A photon is a single quantum of (visible) light as well as all other forms of electromagnetic radiation and can be referred to as a light quantum.
Part of the Computing fundamentals glossary: Quantum is the Latin word for amount and, in modern understanding, means the smallest possible discrete unit of any physical property, such as energy or matter. Quantum came into the latter usage in 1900, when the physicist Max Planck used it in a presentation to the German Physical Society. 
Part of the Nanotechnology glossary: Quantum theory is the theoretical basis of modern physics that explains the nature and behavior of matter and energy on the atomic and subatomic level. The nature and behavior of matter and energy at that level is sometimes referred to as quantum physics and quantum mechanics. 
Quantum mechanics (QM; also known as quantum physics or quantum theory) including quantum field theory, is a fundamental branch of physics concerned with processes involving, for example, atoms and photons. Quantum mechanics gradually arose from Max Planck 's solution in 1900 to the black-body radiation problem (reported 1859) and Albert Einstein 's 1905 paper which offered a quantum-based theory to explain the photoelectric effect (reported 1887). Early quantum theory was significantly reformulated in the mid-1920s.
In the formalism of quantum mechanics, the state of a system at a given time is described by a complex wave function, also referred to as state vector in a complex vector space. This abstract mathematical object allows for the calculation of probabilities of outcomes of concrete experiments. Quantum mechanics gradually arose from Max Planck 's solution in 1900 to the black-body radiation problem (reported 1859) and Albert Einstein 's 1905 paper which offered a quantum-based theory to explain the photoelectric effect (reported 1887). Early quantum theory was significantly reformulated in the mid-1920s.
The word quantum comes from the Latin quantus, meaning how much. Quanta, short for quanta of electricity (electrons) was used in a 1902 article on the photoelectric effect by Philipp Lenard, who credited Hermann von Helmholtz for using the word in the area of electricity. This means that the magnitude can take on only certain discrete values. A photon is a single quantum of (visible) light as well as all other forms of electromagnetic radiation and can be referred to as a light quantum.
1. quantum-a discrete amount of something that is analogous to the quantities in quantum theory. quantity-the concept that something has a magnitude and can be represented in mathematical expressions by a constant or a variable. 2. quantum - (physics) the smallest discrete quantity of some physical property that a system can possess (according to quantum theory). quantity, measure, amount-how much there is or how many there are of something that you can quantify.