A luteinizing hormone test measures the amount of luteinizing hormone (LH) in a sample of blood or urine. LH is produced by the pituitary gland. 1  In women, LH helps regulate the menstrual cycle and egg production (ovulation). Test Overview. A luteinizing hormone test measures the amount of luteinizing hormone (LH) in a sample of blood or urine. LH is produced by the pituitary gland. 1  In women, LH helps regulate the menstrual cycle and egg production (ovulation). 2  The level of LH in a woman's body varies with the phase of the menstrual cycle.
LH is a hormone that’s produced in the pituitary gland. The pituitary gland is located at the base of the brain, and it’s roughly the size of a pea. If you’re a woman, LH is an important part of your menstrual cycle. Luteinizing hormone (LH) is an important hormone both men and women produce. This hormone is known as a gonadotropin, and it affects the sex organs in both men and women. For women, it affects ovaries, and in men, it affects the testes.
Luteinizing hormone (LH, also known as lutropin and sometimes lutrophin) is a hormone produced by gonadotropic cells in the anterior pituitary gland. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Luteinizing hormone (LH, also known as lutropin and sometimes lutrophin) is a hormone produced by gonadotropic cells in the anterior pituitary gland. In females, an acute rise of LH ( LH surge ) triggers ovulation and development of the corpus luteum.
Guide. A luteinizing hormone test measures the amount of luteinizing hormone (LH) in a sample of blood or urine. LH is produced by the pituitary gland. 1  In women, LH helps regulate the menstrual cycle and egg production (ovulation). 2  In men, LH stimulates the production of testosterone, which plays a role in sperm production.
Luteinizing hormone (LH) is a hormone produced by the anterior pituitary gland. In women a rise in LH trigger ovulation; in men LH (also called interstitial cell-stimulating hormone) it stimulates production of testosterone. Hormone replacement therapy is gender specific. 
Alternative names for luteinising hormone Interstitial cell stimulating hormone; luteinizing hormone; lutropin; LH. What is luteinising hormone? Luteinising hormone, like follicle stimulating hormone, is a gonadotrophic hormone produced and released by cells in the anterior pituitary gland. 
A luteinizing hormone test measures the amount of luteinizing hormone (LH) in a sample of blood or urine. LH is produced by the pituitary gland. 1  In women, LH helps regulate the menstrual cycle and egg production (ovulation). 2  How much LH is in a woman's body depends on the phase of her menstrual cycle. 
luteinizing hormone (LH) a gonadotropin of the anterior pituitary gland, acting with follicle-stimulating hormone to cause ovulation of mature follicles and secretion of estrogen by thecal and granulosa cells of the ovary; it is also concerned with corpus luteum formation. LH A hormone produced by the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland that stimulates ovulation and the development of the corpus luteum in the female and the production of testosterone by the interstitial cells of the testis in the male.