1 There are over 2,000 species of starfish. 2  All echinoderms have five-point radial symmetry, which means that their body plan has five sections arranged around a central disk. 3  Starfish are found in the deep blue sea of the ocean and shallow water as well. 4  They are found in every ocean of the world. 1 All echinoderms have five-point radial symmetry, which means that their body plan has five sections arranged around a central disk. 2
On the skin of the starfish, there are spines and gill like projections that act as lungs. The gills take oxygen from the atmosphere and transport it into the body. On the topside of the starfish there is a spot of skin called the madreporite. Starfish are generally predators. They eat mollusks, clams, oysters, snails, and other organisms that are too slow to get away, such as dying fish. The tube feet assist the the starfish in eating it’s prey. The tube feet grab the prey and pry it open so the stomach can reach into the shell and digest the clam.
The blood carries oxygen to other parts of the body. Carbon dioxide passes from the blood through the thin gill tissue into the water. Gills or gill-like organs, located in different parts of the body, are found in various groups of aquatic animals, including mollusks, crustaceans, insects, fish, and amphibians. The red gills of this common carp are visible as a result of a gill flap birth defect. A gill (/ɡɪl/) is a respiratory organ found in many aquatic organisms that extracts dissolved oxygen from water and excretes carbon dioxide. The gills of some species, such as hermit crabs, have adapted to allow respiration on land provided they are kept moist
The starfish (commonly as a sea star) is generally found with 5 arms that are attached to a central disc. This central disc is the activity center of the starfish and also contains the mouth of the starfish. 
Common usage frequently finds these names being also applied to ophiuroids, which are correctly referred to as brittle stars or basket stars. About 1,500 species of starfish occur on the seabed in all the world's oceans, from the tropics to frigid polar waters. They are found from the intertidal zone down to abyssal depths, 6,000 m (20,000 ft) below the surface. Starfish are marine invertebrates. The tube feet, spines and pedicellariae are sensitive to touch. The tube feet, especially those at the tips of the rays, are also sensitive to chemicals, enabling the starfish to detect odour sources such as food. There are eyespots at the ends of the arms, each one made of 80–200 simple ocelli.
Although the Starfish live under water and are commonly called starfish, they are not fish. They do not have gills, scales or fins like fish do, and they are very different fish. As the fish continued to move their tails, Starfish have tiny tube feet to help them move along (see more on this below). 
No starfish, more accurately seastars, do not breathe through gills. Instead: Oxygen enters mainly by diffusion into the tube feet (and thus into the water vascular system) or the papulae, which are little sacs all over the upper surface of the body. 
Starfish are echinoderms (spiny skinned sea urchins). They are also known as sea stars and are not really fish despite the name been given to them. Starfish cannot swim, and they do not use gills to breathe. For more information on these interesting sea urchins, see the fact sheet below. 1 All echinoderms have five-point radial symmetry, which means that their body plan has five sections arranged around a central disk. 2  Starfish are found in the deep blue sea of the ocean and shallow water as well.
1 Starfish are found in the deep blue sea of the ocean and shallow water as well. 2  They are found in every ocean of the world. 3  They are never found in fresh water. 4  Most starfish have a spiky shell which offers them protection. 1 All echinoderms have five-point radial symmetry, which means that their body plan has five sections arranged around a central disk. 2 