authoritarian. adj. 1. favouring, denoting, or characterized by strict obedience to authority. 2. (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) favouring, denoting, or relating to government by a small elite with wide powers. au•thor•i•tar•i•an. 1. of, favoring, or requiring complete obedience to authority: an authoritarian military code. 2. pertaining to or being a government in which authority is centered in one person or in a small group not constitutionally accountable to the people. 3. exercising control over the will of others: an authoritarian parent
The object of torture is torture. The object of power is power. Authoritarianism is a very interesting phenomenon. Its adherents don't necessarily want to tell you what to do - as long as, if they disagree with you, someone else in power will tell you what to do. It is this honoring of power over reason that makes an authoritarian. 
Authoritarianism and democracy are not fundamentally opposed to one another; it is thus definitely possible for democracies to possess strong authoritarian elements, for both feature a form of submission to authority. It is only concerned with political power and as long as that is not contested it gives society a certain degree of liberty. Totalitarianism, on the other hand, invades private life and asphyxiates it.. Another distinction is that authoritarianism is not animated by utopian ideals in the way totalitarianism is.
Authoritarian regimes are also sometimes subcategorized by whether they are personalistic or populist. Personalistic authoritarian regimes are characterized by arbitrary rule and authority exercised mainly through patronage networks and coercion rather than through institutitions and formal rules.. It is only concerned with political power and as long as that is not contested it gives society a certain degree of liberty. Totalitarianism, on the other hand, invades private life and asphyxiates it.. Another distinction is that authoritarianism is not animated by utopian ideals in the way totalitarianism is.
~ Errico Malatesta. Authoritarianism is a form of social organization characterized by submission to authority and thus usually opposed to individualism, liberalism, democracy, libertarianism and anarchism. 1 Anarchism is a manifestation of natural human urges … it is the tendency to create authoritarian institutions which is the transient aberration. 2  George Woodcock‎‎ , in Anarchism (1963) The Family Tree. 3  Most fundamentally, I would see Anarchism as a synonym for anti-authoritarianism.
Authoritarianism is characterized by highly concentrated and centralized power maintained by political repression and the exclusion of potential challengers. It uses political parties and mass organizations to mobilize people around the goals of the regime. It is only concerned with political power and as long as that is not contested it gives society a certain degree of liberty. Totalitarianism, on the other hand, invades private life and asphyxiates it.. Another distinction is that authoritarianism is not animated by utopian ideals in the way totalitarianism is.
Linz distinguished new forms of authoritarianism from personalistic dictatorships and totalitarian states, taking Francoist Spain as an example. It is only concerned with political power and as long as that is not contested it gives society a certain degree of liberty. Totalitarianism, on the other hand, invades private life and asphyxiates it.. Another distinction is that authoritarianism is not animated by utopian ideals in the way totalitarianism is.
Authoritarian personality is a state of mind or attitude characterized by belief in absolute obedience or submission to one's own authority, as well as the administration of that belief through the oppression of one's subordinates. 
1. authoritarianism-a form of government in which the ruler is an absolute dictator (not restricted by a constitution or laws or opposition etc.). dictatorship, monocracy, one-man rule, shogunate, Stalinism, totalitarianism, tyranny, Caesarism, despotism, absolutism. 