A desert is a region of land that is very dry because it receives low amounts of precipitation (usually in the form of rain but may be snow, mist or fog), often has little coverage by plants, and in which streams dry up unless they are supplied by water from outside the area. Deserts take up about one third of the Earth's land surface. Bottomlands may be salt-covered flats. Eolian processes are major factors in shaping desert landscapes. Polar deserts (also seen as cold deserts) have similar features, except the main form of precipitation is snow rather than rain.
Although most deserts, such as the Sahara of North Africa and the deserts of the southwestern U.S., Mexico, and Australia, occur at low latitudes, another kind of desert, cold deserts, occur in the basin and range area of Utah and Nevada and in parts of western Asia. 
A desert is a barren area of land where little precipitation occurs and consequently living conditions are hostile for plant and animal life. The lack of vegetation exposes the unprotected surface of the ground to the processes of denudation. About one third of the land surface of the world is arid or semi-arid. Deserts take up about one third of the Earth's land surface. Bottomlands may be salt-covered flats. Eolian processes are major factors in shaping desert landscapes. Polar deserts (also seen as cold deserts) have similar features, except the main form of precipitation is snow rather than rain.
desert. 1. 'desert' as a noun. A desert. is a large area of land where there is very little water or rain, no trees, and very few plants. They crossed the Sahara Desert. 2. 'desert' as a verb. When people or animals desert. a place, they all leave it. Poor farmers are deserting their fields and coming here looking for jobs. 
English desert and its Romance cognates (including Italian and Portuguese deserto, French desert désert And spanish) desierto all come from the Ecclesiastical latin (dēsertum originally an abandoned), place a participle of, dēserere to. abandon Deserts take up about one third of the Earth's land surface. Bottomlands may be salt-covered flats. Eolian processes are major factors in shaping desert landscapes. Polar deserts (also seen as cold deserts) have similar features, except the main form of precipitation is snow rather than rain.
LOCATION: Although few animals and plants are adapted to the extremely dry desert life, the desert is a vital biome. The desert is important because it covers about a fifth of the earth's surface! There are both hot and cold deserts. Antarctica is the largest desert in the world, while the Sahara in Africa is the largest of the hot deserts. There are also deserts close to Santa Barbara, such as the Mojave the Colorado Desert which encompass parts of Southern California.
Animals-Plants-People-Environment. Deserts cover more than one fifth of the Earth's land, and they are found on every continent. Deserts can be classified as hot or cold. Deserts receive less than 10 inches of precipitation a year. Lack of water creates a survival problem for all desert organisms, animals, plants and people. 
T he hot desert is a land of extremes: extreme heat and extreme dryness; sudden flash floods and cold nights. Because deserts are such a harsh environment, deserts often have names likes Death Valley, the empty quarter, and the place from where there is no return.. Dryness. 
The Desert Biome. Deserts are often defined as areas that receive less than 10 inches of average annual rainfall, but a more accurate defining factor is aridity. In addition to low rainfall, deserts are characterized by a high rate of water loss from the ground (evaporation) and through plants (transpiration). 