Both governments became anxious for a comprehensive settlement to dispose of the reciprocity and the fisheries issues. The Reciprocity Treaty was finally signed by British North America (BNA) Governor General Lord Elgin and US Secretary of State William Marcy on 6 June 1854. It was accepted by the US Congress in August. Like the earlier reciprocity agreements, it eliminated many trade barriers between the two countries. It was superseded in 1994 by the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) between Canada, the US and Mexico.
Interestingly enough, these terms rested upon what Hawaii termed the good faith of the United States to honor Hawaii's sovereignty. Long before the Reciprocity Treaty, Hawaii had signed the 1826 Hawaii-United States Treaty. This had opened up trade with the United States. Friendship was affirmed between the two nations, and American ships were admitted into the ports for trading purposes. Any direct discussion of sovereignty of Hawaii was neglected. The Reciprocity Treaty was proposed, drafted, and passed during the reign of Hawaiian King David Kalakaua. King Kalakaua was the first Hawaiian monarch to make a world tour and to meet with heads of state, including in 1881 to
Under the terms of the Elgin-Marcy treaty [more commonly known as the Reciprocity Treaty of 1854], the United States and the British North American colonies (Canada, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island, and Newfoundland) each removed the duties upon a considerable list of natural products. Reciprocity and Canada. [This article was written in 1948. For the complete citation, see the end of the text.]. Reciprocity, a term commonly used in Canada in reference to an agreement with the United States involving mutual reductions in customs duties.
The Reciprocity Treaty was agreements among Canada and the United States of America to have their goods enter each other’s markets with no tariffs. Either side could end the Reciprocity Treaty within 10 years. It started in 1854, and yes, concluded in 1865. This was one of the reasons for Confederation. 
The Reciprocity Treaty was very significant because if the treaty was not cancelled after the American civil war, when the United States of America wanted to make Canada join the American union, we might have had to join. Why did the Americans cancel the treaty? The Reciprocity Treaty was cancelled in 1866 by the U.S. They cancelled it because the U.S thought that British North America was the only nation that was benefiting from it because British North America exports grew by 33% while the U.S exports only grew by 7%.
The Treaty of reciprocity between the United States of America and the Hawaiian Kingdom (Hawaiian: Kuʻikahi Pānaʻi Like) was a free trade agreement signed and ratified in 1875 that is generally known as the Reciprocity Treaty of 1875. 
Cancellation of the Reciprocity Treaty-– Jacquie, Harrison, Alyssa D, Chelsea, Kianna, Alexandra. Question #1. Explain the significance of the the cancellation of the Reciprocity Treaty as a political challenge faced by Canada. Question #2. Explain a political challenge faced by Canada today and how it is similar to what Canadian politics faced in the 1850’s. Why did the Americans cancel the treaty? The Reciprocity Treaty was cancelled in 1866 by the U.S. They cancelled it because the U.S thought that British North America was the only nation that was benefiting from it because British North America exports grew by 33% while the U.S exports only grew by 7%.
The Canadian–American Reciprocity Treaty of 1854, also known as the Elgin-Marcy Treaty, was a trade treaty between Great Britain and the United States, applying to British possessions in North America including the United Province of Canada, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island, and Newfoundland Colony. In 1854, they achieved what they wanted in the Elgin-Marcy Treaty. It listed most Canadian raw materials and agricultural produce—especially timber and wheat—as goods admitted duty-free to the U.S. market. The treaty ended the American 21% tariff on natural resource imports.
Copyright/Source. The Reciprocity Treaty of 1854. On behalf of Great Britain and its British North American colonies, Governor Elgin signed a reciprocity treaty with the United States on June 5, 1854. This treaty eliminated customs tariffs. In 1865, the American government announced that the treaty would not be renewed, and it ended in 1866. The treaty was signed at an ideal time for United Canada and the other North American colonies, since Great Britain was phasing out its preferential system.