In-Shop Repair Prices. When you bring your computer into our shop for repair, we give you two easy ways to pay. 1  Hourly Service-We will fix your computer at the low hourly rate of $48/hour. 2  Computer Service Maintenance Packages-This is the best value for your money! 1 If you're covered under the Maintenance package, simply bring your computer in, no matter what the problem is, and we'll take care of it for you. 2  In addition to the peace-of-mind you'll feel, you also receive priority service over and above our hourly clients. 3  Packages starting out at $7.95.
1 An average model for a home PC costs $75-$200 depending on the computer needs. 2  One Intel motherboard that can be used for servers is available at MacMall for $1,350. 3  A model aimed at the needs of gamers costs $380 on Amazon. 1 Technicians typically charge $50-$100 per hour for labor to work on the computer, but this varies by geographical location. 2  Most jobs can be finished in an hour. 3  Costs for replacement hardware for Macs and PCs vary.
Expected Answer: We charge [$50 to $70]USD per hour.. Rates vary, and so do charging schemes (some computer repair services are billed per service), but $50 to $70USD per hour is average. Too much higher than that and you're likely getting ripped off. Many services we pay for in life are rife with hidden fees. That $29 USD oil change seems to cost about $50 when it's all said and done. Expected Answer: No.. It is not common practice for a computer repair service to charge extra fees for their standard services.
1 Motherboards range from $50 to more than $1,000 -- the more expensive models offer faster speeds and more ports. 2  An average model for a home PC costs $75-$200 depending on the computer needs. 3  One Intel motherboard that can be used for servers is available at MacMall for $1,350. 1 Technicians typically charge $50-$100 per hour for labor to work on the computer, but this varies by geographical location. 2  Most jobs can be finished in an hour. 3  Costs for replacement hardware for Macs and PCs vary.
Comments 7. MSP pricing -- how much to charge for proactive managed services -- has always been a hotly debated topic. Now, some answers: Managed services providers (MSPs), on average, are charging about $52 per desktop and $216 per server for monthly support and maintenance. The stats are from a Kaseya MSP Global Pricing Survey that I (finally) spotted. Here's a closer look at the numbers. 1 MSPs charge $156 per server, on average, for ongoing server support and maintenance per month. 2  MSPs in New Zealand ($278, based on 11 MSP responses), the United States ($216) and Australia ($211, based on 55 MSP responses) charged the highest feed.
1 For example, if you purchase the Data Migration service for $179, you can add on a One-Time Data Backup for only $74.50 (which is regularly priced at $149). 2  There is no limit to how many half price services you can add on to the same service call. 1 If you're covered under the Maintenance package, simply bring your computer in, no matter what the problem is, and we'll take care of it for you. 2  In addition to the peace-of-mind you'll feel, you also receive priority service over and above our hourly clients. 3  Packages starting out at $7.95.
Take your computer to their shop or find another computer repair service. You should, however, expect to see some kind of small charge to visit you-perhaps a $10 to $20USD single trip charge or a 10-20% hourly rate increase. Some computer repair services do not charge anything extra at all for this extra service. Many services we pay for in life are rife with hidden fees. That $29 USD oil change seems to cost about $50 when it's all said and done. Expected Answer: No.. It is not common practice for a computer repair service to charge extra fees for their standard services.
The average cost of PC repair is $50 to $80 per hour. Typically, PC repair companies don’t give a firm quote on the cost of fixing a computer. The job can take one hour. Sometimes it can take three. It can be tough to determine the exact amount of time it will take. Most people pay $100 to $300 for the completed task. Computer Repair Prices. Whether your computer is running slow, you need to recover data from a crashed hard drive, or you are having problems with your home or business network, hiring a computer repair service can solve all of your problems. We live in a world of technology that moves fast.