Report Abuse. Arteries transport blood to the body, and Veins transport blood to the heart. Blood goes through the Left and Right Atrium's of the heart, into the pulmonary arteries, back into the right and left ventricles, and into the body. The process is continuously repeated. Veins go into the right side of the heart, to send de-oxygenated blood to the lungs. Arteries come out of the left side of the heart to pump oxygenated blood around the body.
Report Abuse. Arteries carry oxygenated blood to the body, except for the pulmonary artery which carries de-oxygenated blood from the heart to the lungs. Veins carry de-oxygenated blood to the heart, except for the pulmonary vein which carries oxygenated blood from the lungs to the heart. Nicola P · 7 years ago. Thumbs up
Best Answer: arteries carry oxygenated blood away from the heart to the body veins carry deoxygenated blood towards the heart with the exception of the pulmonary artery which carries deoxygenated blood from the heart to the lungs and the pulmonary vein that carries oxygenated blood from the lungs to the heart. Veins carry de-oxygenated blood to the heart, except for the pulmonary vein which
Arteries. The arteries (red) carry oxygen and nutrients away from your heart, to your body's tissues. The veins (blue) take oxygen-poor blood back to the heart. 1  Arteries begin with the aorta, the large artery leaving the heart. 2  They carry oxygen-rich blood away from the heart to all of the body's tissues. 3  They branch several times, becoming smaller and smaller as they carry blood further from the heart. 1 These are blood vessels that take oxygen-poor blood back to the heart. 2  Veins become larger and larger as they get closer to the heart. 3  The superior vena cava is the large vein that brings blood from the head and arms to the heart, and the inferior vena cava brings blood from the abdomen and legs in
Location: The coronary system is comprised of arteries, arterioles, capillaries, venules and veins. From the innumerable cardiac capillaries, blood flows back to the cardiac chambers through venules, which in turn coalesce into the cardiac veins. 
In the circulatory system, veins (from the Latin vena) are blood vessels that carry blood toward the heart. Most veins carry deoxygenated blood from the tissues back to the heart; exceptions are the pulmonary and umbilical veins, both of which carry oxygenated blood to the heart. In contrast to veins, arteries carry blood away from the heart. Veins are less muscular than arteries and are often closer to the skin. There are valves in most veins to prevent backflow.
The heart is a pumping system which takes in deoxygenated blood through the veins and delivers it to the lungs for oxygenation before pumping it into the various arteries (which provide oxygen and nutrients to body tissues by transporting the blood throughout the body). The right side of the heart receives deoxygenated blood from the systemic veins and pumps it to the lungs for oxygenation. The left side of the heart receives oxygenated blood from the lungs and pumps it through the systemic arteries to the tissues of the body.
Overview. Veins are blood vessels that carry blood from your body's tissues to your heart. Your heart pumps the blood to your lungs to pick up oxygen. The oxygen-rich blood then is pumped to your body through blood vessels called arteries. 
The pulmonary veins carry relatively oxygenated blood from the lungs to the heart. The superior and inferior venae cavae carry relatively deoxygenated blood from the upper and lower systemic circulations, respectively. The portal venous system is a series of veins or venules that directly connect two capillary beds. In contrast to veins, arteries carry blood away from the heart. Veins are less muscular than arteries and are often closer to the skin. There are valves in most veins to prevent backflow.