Japanese knotweed, an escaped ornamental, is a shrubby perennial that was first introduced in the United States from Asia. It grows very aggressively along roadways, neglected gardens, streambeds, and in moist, wet places. To stop the spread of Japanese knotweed, care must be taken to prevent new plants from becoming established. New growth can sprout easily from very small fragments left behind, so when working to control or remove the plant make sure that all plant material is removed and then burned or dried.
Japanese knotweed emerges as small asparagus-like shoots green/purple in colour. As the plant develops it produces small red/green shield-shaped leaves growing from the stem’s many distinct raised nodes or ‘knots’. Once mature, the leaves become a vibrant green colour reaching lengths of up to 120mm. Japanese knotweed is one of the most invasive plants in the UK. It grows rapidly (over 1.5m in a month) and spreads easily by stem fragments and rhizomes (underground creeping stems). 1  Overview / Identification Notes.
Japanese knotweed (Fallopia japonica) is a large perennial plant that grows throughout much of the UK. It was imported to Britain from Japan during the mid 19 th century as popular ornamental feature to many gardens. Japanese knotweed is one of the most invasive plants in the UK. It grows rapidly (over 1.5m in a month) and spreads easily by stem fragments and rhizomes (underground creeping stems). 1  Overview / Identification Notes.
Fallopia japonica, commonly known as Japanese knotweed, is a large, herbaceous perennial plant of the family Polygonaceae, native to East Asia in Japan, China and Korea. In North America and Europe the species is very successful and has been classified as an invasive species in several countries. Japanese knotweed has a large underground network of roots (rhizomes). To eradicate the plant the roots need to be killed. All above-ground portions of the plant need to be controlled repeatedly for several years in order to weaken and kill the entire patch.
Your enquiry. This field should be left blank. Japanese knotweed (Fallopia japonica) is a giant weed that can grow up to 10cm a day and is now the most invasive plant known in Scotland and the UK. Knotweed has been known to cause major damage to properties and in some cases it can lead to mortgages being refused. As Japanese knotweed has no natural enemies to check its spread the invasive weed has flourished in Scotland and the UK to extreme proportions. Experts have estimated it costs the country £166 million annually.
There is a real lack of information and understanding of what Japanese knotweed is and the actual damage it can cause. Without actual advice and guidance, surveyors have been unsure of how to assess the risk of Japanese knotweed, which can result in inconsistent reporting of the plant in mortgage valuations. Japanese knotweed has a large underground network of roots (rhizomes). To eradicate the plant the roots need to be killed. All above-ground portions of the plant need to be controlled repeatedly for several years in order to weaken and kill the entire patch.
Japanese Knotweed. Japanese knotweed is one of the most invasive plants in the UK. It grows rapidly (over 1.5m in a month) and spreads easily by stem fragments and rhizomes (underground creeping stems). 1  Overview / Identification Notes. 2  Image Gallery
Homeowner’s Guide to Japanese Knotweed Control Developed by the Northwoods Cooperative Weed Management Area 7/2007 Japanese knotweed (Polygonum cuspidatum) is a non-native invasive species that threatens our community. This rapidly growing plant is quick to shade out native species and garden cultivars. 
Japanese knotweed-an excellent source of the potent antioxidant resveratrol-is a plant that is characterized by its hollow stems and its wide, oval-shaped leaves. The Japanese knotweed plant also grows a profusion of small, white flowers during the late summer and early fall. Providing a more concentrated source of resveratrol, Japanese knotweed is preferred over grape skins by many dietary supplement manufacturers. Unlike grapes, Japanese knotweed can be grown year round, allowing manufacturers to have a consistent source of resveratrol for their pills.