Too Cold. If you attempt to install roofing when the temperature is too cold for installation, shingles, shakes and other roofing materials may turn brittle. Though installing the shingles when they are in this condition is possible, it is not ideal. To get the best results and to prevent breakage or softening of materials, install roofing when the temperature is between 50 and 60 degrees F if at all possible. If the roofing job needs to be done immediately due to leaks or wind damage, lay a tarp over the damaged section of the roof or install temporary roofing.
Installing Shingles in Cold Temperatures. The problem you will run into with asphalt shingles in the cold, for instance, is that they can become brittle. Fiberglass shingles can actually get so cold that they can crack on you during installation. A mild overcast and temperatures between 50 and 70 degrees should suit most roofing installations. If you have to battle the elements, it's best to apply adhesive quickly before it can dry out in warmer weather. Storing shingles in a warm place before installation in temperatures below forty degrees is a smart move.
Although you can install asphalt shingles, shakes or roll roofing in most temperatures, you will run into issues installing these materials in temperatures below forty degrees and above eight five degrees. A mild overcast and temperatures between 50 and 70 degrees should suit most roofing installations. If you have to battle the elements, it's best to apply adhesive quickly before it can dry out in warmer weather. Storing shingles in a warm place before installation in temperatures below forty degrees is a smart move.
If asphalt shingles are installed during colder than ideal temperatures, the shingles will not seal adequately and are vulnerable to high winds and rain. An improperly sealed shingle can be blown off by the wind or allow rainwater to seep underneath an into the roof decking. In most cases, asphalt shingles will eventually reach a high enough temperature to properly cure the adhesive, and the roof will function properly. In other cases, a storm producing high winds or driving rain could damage a shingle before it has a chance to seal properly.
Johanne from Laval, Quebec writes: Could it be damaging to my new shingle roof to climb up on it in the winter time to install a satellite antenna? If so, what would be the ideal temperature to do work without any damage?. Aside from slipping on ice, winter is not a bad time to walk on that roof but not the best time. To illustrate the problem we took three pieces of asphalt shingle and plunged one into a cooler full of ice, left one at roof temperature and put the third under a heat lamp.
Jay, If not in a dire situation, it would be best to wait until Spring to install the new roof because of the cold temperatures this time of year. Cold temperatures affect the self-sealing ability of the shingles only.
Come back and see us again soon! In a hot climate, organic asphalt roofing shingles may not be the best option. If you are looking to install asphalt roofing shingles and you live in a warm area of the country, building codes may prohibit the use of organic asphalt shingles. You can, however, opt for fiberglass shingles instead. A hot climate is brutal for residential roofs
Ideally the time to do roof work is when temperatures are above freezing, and the intensity and frequency of wind and rain is low. In this condition, a roofing crew would have fewer interruptions and there would be a lower risk of leaking. In several states, roof maintenance can be done at any time of the year. Yet even during the hottest days of summer, roofers can still perform maintenance work on a roof. However, it will be necessary to coordinate your schedule with that of the roofing crew. In the spring and fall, roof work starts around 8:00 a.m. and goes until 5:00 or 6:00 p.m.
The same goes for applying shingles or shakes in direct sunlight between noon and four. Ideally, you want to roof on a day with moderate temperature, moderate humidity and freedom from direct sunlight. A mild overcast and temperatures between 50 and 70 degrees should suit most roofing installations. If you have to battle the elements, it's best to apply adhesive quickly before it can dry out in warmer weather. Storing shingles in a warm place before installation in temperatures below forty degrees is a smart move.
Asphalt (Composition) Shingles: The ideal temperature range to install asphalt shingles is between 70 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit. Colder than 70 degrees and the adhesive will not reach the ideal elasticity and will not create a perfect seal. In most cases, asphalt shingles will eventually reach a high enough temperature to properly cure the adhesive, and the roof will function properly. In other cases, a storm producing high winds or driving rain could damage a shingle before it has a chance to seal properly.