[ 3 syll. i-lon-ka, il-o- nka ] The baby girl name Ilonka is pronounced as iy-L AA NKaa †. Ilonka is used chiefly in German, Hungarian, and English. Its origin is Old Greek and Hungarian. Ilonka is a variant of the name Helen (English) in the German and Hungarian languages. Ilonka is also a diminutive of the name Ilona (English, Finnish, German, Hungarian, Czech, and Dutch) in the English and Hungarian languages. Ilonka is not commonly used as a baby girl name. It is listed outside of the top 1000. 
Ilonka is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced I-lon-ka. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Ilonka Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Ilonka has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Ilonka to other names. Ilonka is a diminutive (nickname) of Ilona.
Meaning of Ilonka. Greek name. In Greek, the name Ilonka means-light.The name Ilonka originated as an Greek name. The name Ilonka is most often used as a girl name or female name. 
Ilona is a Hungarian female given name, the traditional name of the Queen of the Fairies in Magyar folklore. Its etymology is uncertain. A common myth is that Ilona is cognate with the Greek given name Helen. Diminutive forms include Ilonka and Ilike. Ilona is a common name in Finland, where it is considered to refer to the Finnish word ilo (joy) and ilona literally means as a joy [to someone].
Ilonka /ilon-ka/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name. Ilonka's roots are Hebrew, Hungarian and Greek, and the name Ilonka means oak tree; sun ray. Ilonka is a variant transcription of Alona (Hebrew). Ilonka is also a variant of Ilona (Hungarian, Greek): version of Helen. Ilonka is an unusual given name for women. Ilonka is an equivalently uncommon last name too for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Ilonka for girls. Ilonka has not made it into the Top 1000 so far.
Ilona /ilo-na/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced eye-LOH-nah, eye-LONE-ah. It is of Hungarian and Greek origin, and the meaning of Ilona is sun ray. Variant of Helen. Also carries the connotation of beautiful, because of the beauty of Helen of Troy. 
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Ilonka in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Ilonka in Nautical Flags page. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Ilonka Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Ilonka has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Ilonka to other names. Ilonka is a diminutive (nickname) of Ilona.