The bubbly skin might just be the skin peeling. Blisters result from severe sunburns. Freckle/mole looking things that appear randomly can be a form of cancer, but are rarely multiple ones. It sounds like you've got a horrid burn and need some prescribed lotion, go see a dermatologist or your regular doctor.
Report Abuse. Try not to worry about this. A bad sunburn (i.e. blistering) in your childhood can increase the risk of developing skin cancer latter in life. However, at your age, the skin is much more resilient. Blisters tend to show up pretty quickly (within a day), so the burn may not be as bad as it looks or feels.
En Espanol. Español — sunburn the skin reddening caused by overexposure to the’sun s harmful (ULTRAVIOLET) uv — radiation may seem like just a temporary, irritation but sunburns can cause-long lasting damage to the. skin
Sunburn is a clear sign that the DNA in your skin cells has been damaged by too much UV radiation. Getting painful sunburn, just once every 2 years, can triple your risk of melanoma skin cancer. Sunburn doesn’t have to be raw, peeling or blistering. If your skin has gone pink or red in the sun, it’s sunburnt.
While there is a connection between overexposure to the sun and skin cancer, I don't think they've established how often or how badly you have to be overexposed for skin cancer to occur. I don't think it can come from just one burn, though-and it's certainly not going to happen right away.
Sunburn — the skin reddening caused by overexposure to the sun’s harmful ultraviolet (UV) radiation — may seem like just a temporary irritation, but sunburns can cause long-lasting damage to the skin.
Topic Overview. Skin cancer is often or usually caused by years of too much sun exposure. More than 90% of all skin cancers are found on body parts that get the most sun most of the time. The face, neck, ears, hands, and arms are common body parts that get skin cancer.
You are at risk for skin cancer. Being in the sun can damage your skin. Sunlight causes damage through ultraviolet, or UV rays, (they make up just one part of sunlight). Two parts of UV, UVA and UVB, can both cause damage to skin.
1 Skin cancer usually appears in adulthood. 2  But it is caused by sun exposure and sunburns that began as early as childhood. 3  You can help prevent skin cancer by protecting your skin and your children's skin from the harmful rays of the sun.