You can easily add music, pictures, videos, and documents to your Surface using one of the following methods: 1. Connect to a networked computer. 2. Use a USB flash drive or a memory card—microSD, microSDHC, or micro SDXC cards all work with Surface. Connect to a network computer. Surface can access music, pictures, videos, and documents on computers that are part of your home network. To see the files and folders that have been shared on your network, go to the Start screen and open File Explorer. Shared items appear under HomeGroup or Network.
LO. I have always had my pictures download to My Pictures which I think is Windows Live Pictures. Now my picture library is not there except for a couple albums. Then I find my pictures now in Photo Gallery that I don't like at all because the pictures are all out of order and I can't arrange them like I want. Some pictures are in the wrong album and I want to put them in the correct album. I don't quite understand how all this happened that's why I'm having a hard time explaining it. I really don't know what is going on! If you can help that would make this a Happy Day for me!
04-23-2013, 04:00 PM #1. Does anyone know how to export the photos taken from the Surface RT. I feel like i have tried everything, but i cant even import the pictures into a memory stick. I can just import stuff from the memory stick into my surface... This is really annoying. 
If you have stored personal Photos and Videos on your Apple iPhone or iPad tablet, it is easy to transfer them to your new Surface RT or Windows 8 Pro tablet, similar to moving things to new computer or laptop. How to Import Photos from iPhone to Surface RT/Pro. 
Use a USB flash drive or memory card. You can also move music/image/movie files to Surface, by copying them to a USB flash drive or memory card (microSD, microSDHC, and micro SDXC cards all work with Surface) and then adding the files to Surface. Here’s how: 1. Copy files onto a USB flash drive or memory card on your other computer. 2. Connect to a network computer. Surface can access music, pictures, videos, and documents on computers that are part of your home network. To see the files and folders that have been shared on your network, go to the Start screen and open File Explorer. Shared items appear under HomeGroup or Network.
Use a USB flash drive or memory card. You can also move files to Surface, by copying them to a USB flash drive or memory card (microSD, microSDHC, or micro SDXC cards all work with Surface) and then adding the files to Surface. Here's how: 1. Copy files onto a USB flash drive or memory card on your other computer. 2. Insert the USB flash drive or memory card into Surface. 3. Tap or click the notification that appears in the upper-right corner of the screen. 4. Tap or click Open folder to view files. File Explorer opens. 5. Select the files or folders you want to add to Surface, tap or click Home, and then tap or click Copy to.
If the folder or location holding the pictures is on an external hard drive or removable media such as a USB flash drive or microSD card, make sure the hard drive or removable media is connected to your Surface and that you can open it. Step 2: From the Start screen, tap or click Desktop (or press Windows logo key + D). Connect a compatible USB camera, phone, USB flash drive, or other USB storage device to your Surface, or insert a microSD card into the microSD card slot. To learn how see Connect a USB mouse, printer, and more and Surface storage options. Step 2: From the Start screen, tap or click Photos.
Step 1: If the folder or location holding the pictures is on an external hard drive or removable media such as a USB flash drive or microSD card, make sure that the hard drive or removable media is connected to your Surface and that you can open it. Step 2: Go to Start, and select File Explorer. Connect a compatible USB camera, phone, USB flash drive, or other USB storage device to your Surface, or insert a microSD card into the microSD card slot. To learn how see Connect a USB mouse, printer, and more and Surface storage options. Step 2: From the Start screen, tap or click Photos.
February 6, 2014 8:46:49 AM. Need to move pictures from the surface tablet to my flash drive. The flash drive is recognized as a D drive but it wont let me copy and paste or there is no choice to move the pictures, etc. More about: microsoft surface tablet move pictures tablet flash drive. sizzling. February 6, 2014 8:59:34 AM. 