The chart below categorizes a food as either acidic or alkaline based on the effect consumption of the food has on urine pH. For example, if a food tends to increase the acidity of urine after it is ingested, it is classified as an acid forming food. For example, orange juice is a highly acidic food due to its high citrus acid content, but after being metabolized it will cause urine to become alkaline.
A urine pH test can tell your doctor how acidic or basic (alkaline) your urine is using a simple, painless urine test. Many diseases, your diet, and the medicines you take can affect how acidic or basic your urine is. 
8. Get help from a doctor now ›. High Uric acid foods: Crystals in the urine have little clinical significance. High uric acid diet such as organ meats, mushrooms, berries etc can raise blood uric acid level which is then excreted in the urine and uric acid crystals can be seen under a microscope. 7. Get help from a doctor now ›. Asparagus, garlic...: The most well known food to cause urine to have an odor is asparagus, which leads to excretion of dimethyl sulphide, methyl mercaptan, & asparagusic acid that cause the characteristic odor. Garlic can impart odor to the urine, and alter the results of urinalysis tests
Uric Acid in Urine. Guide. The uric acid urine test measures the amount of uric acid in a sample of urine collected over 24 hours. Uric acid is made from the natural breakdown of your body's cells. It's also made from the foods you eat. Your kidneys take uric acid out of your blood and put it into urine so that it can leave your body. 
A diet that consists of too many acid-producing foods, such as protein, can cause acidity in your urine, which can cause a type of kidney stone called uric acid stones to form. It’s been speculated that overacidity can cause bone and muscle deterioration. 
The lists below categorize foods that are either acidic or alkaline based on the effect they have on urine pH. For example, if a food tends to increase the acidity of urine after it is ingested, it is classified as an acid forming food. 
Foods that raise the urine's acidity are referred to as acid forming foods. Meat, grains, beans, corn, cranberries, coffee, fish, prunes and plums are acidic foods. Sour cream, supplements of hydrochloric acid, eggs, butter milk, wine, yoghurt and liver are very acidic foods. Apart from foods, soft water is acidic. Urine is, by nature, acidic. However, the degree of acidity is low enough for urine to be passed without any discomfort or pain. When the acidity of the urine increases, it causes discomfort during urination. Among acidic urine symptoms, discomfort while passing urine is the most common problem.
The effect foods have on urine pH may be quite different than the pH of the foods themselves. For example, orange juice is a highly acidic food due to its high citrus acid content, but after being metabolized it will cause urine to become alkaline.
The pH of urine is between 5.8 and 7. It is slightly acidic to neutral. Infection is generally seen, when the pH levels are lesser than 5.5. Infection, in course of time, gives rise to alkaline urine with a pH of 7.5 or higher. Urine is, by nature, acidic. However, the degree of acidity is low enough for urine to be passed without any discomfort or pain. When the acidity of the urine increases, it causes discomfort during urination. Among acidic urine symptoms, discomfort while passing urine is the most common problem.