Cephalization means that the animal has a defined head region in which there is a lot of nervous tissue (such as the brain in humans). Sponges are not cephalized because t … hey do not have defined head region nor do they have a central location for their nervous system. Cephalization is the process in animals by which nervous and sensory tissues become concentrated in the head.. The evolution of a head allows scientists to distinguish betwee … n the head end, or anterior end, and the opposite end, the posterior.
Posted on. (Answer #1). Cephalization is the development of a head on an organism's body. Organisms like Porifera or Cnidaria lack a head region. Cephalization is usually found in organisms that are bilaterally symmetrical. These include: the Vertebrates--fish, amphibians, reptiles, birds and mammals. A head region is found in Invertebrates like the arthropods including insects, crustacea and arachnids, in Annelid worms and in Platyhelminthes. 
Cephalization is the process in animals by which nervous and sensory tissues become concentrated in the head.. The evolution of a head allows scientists to distinguish between the head end, or anterior end of an animal's body, and the opposite end, the posterior. Even hydras, which are primitive, radially symmetrical cnidarians, show some degree of cephalization. They have a head where their mouth, photoreceptive cells, and a concentration of neural cells are located. Flatworms (phylum Platyhelminthes) are the most primitive animals with bilateral symmetry.
Definition of CEPHALIZATION. : a tendency in the evolution of organisms to concentrate the sensory and neural organs in an anterior head. ADVERTISEMENT. noun ceph·a·li·za·tion. : an evolutionary tendency to specialization of the body with concentration of sensory and neural organs in an anterior head. Medical Definition of CEPHALIZATION
Cephalization is considered an evolutionary trend, whereby nervous tissue, over many generations, becomes concentrated toward one end of an organism. This process eventually produces a head region with sensory organs. Cephalization is intrinsically connected with a change in symmetry. It accompanied the move to bilateral symmetry made in flatworms, with ocelli and pinnae placed in the head region. Even hydras, which are primitive, radially symmetrical cnidarians, show some degree of cephalization. They have a “head” where their mouth, photoreceptive cells, and a concentration of neural cells are located. Flatworms (phylum Platyhelminthes) are the most primitive animals with bilateral symmetry.
Cephalization means that the animal has a defined head region in which there is a lot of nervous tissue (such as the brain in humans). Sponges are not cephalized because t … hey do not have defined head region nor do they have a central location for their nervous system. Cephalization is a tendency in the evolution of organisms to concentrate the sensory and neural organs in an anterior head. Basically, the organism has a brain.
Report Abuse. Cephalization Cephalization is the process in animals by which nervous and sensory tissues become concentrated in the head.. The evolution of a head allows scientists to distinguish between the head end, or anterior end of an animal's body, and the opposite end, the posterior. 
Cephalization Cephalization is the process in animals by which nervous and ... Although cephalization is associated primarily with bilaterally symmetrical ... While at first seeming a bit simplistic, cephalization has ... Cephalization means that there is a head, and therefore a concentration of ... Cephalization: Evolutionary Process where nerves and sensory structures evolved in the head. ... ... bilateral symmetry with obvious cephalization, three embryonic germ layers with ... is the first step toward cephalization and development of a central ...