molehill. n. 1. (Zoology) the small mound of earth thrown up by a burrowing mole. mole·hill. n. A small mound of loose earth raised by a burrowing mole. make a mountain out of a molehill. To exaggerate a minor problem. (ˈməʊlˌhɪl)
make a mountain out of a molehill. : to make something seem much more difficult or important than it really is. She thought that he was making a mountain out of a molehill by complaining about the placement of the silverware. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. Comments & Questions.
Full Definition of MOLEHILL. : a little mound or ridge of earth pushed up by a mole. See molehill defined for English-language learners. See molehill defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. Definition of MOLEHILL for Kids. : a little ridge of dirt pushed up by a mole as it burrows underground.
mole·hill. n. A small mound of loose earth raised by a burrowing mole. make a mountain out of a molehill. To exaggerate a minor problem. 
Exaggerate trifling difficulties, as in If you forgot you racket you can borrow one-don't make a mountain out of a molehill. This expression, alluding to the barely raised tunnels created by moles, was first recorded in John Fox's The Book of Martyrs (1570). make a mountain out of a molehill. to cause something simple to seem much more difficult or important McAleer knows there's a mistake in the book and promised to correct it, but Rosen continues to complain about it-she's really trying to
At MAX 2010 in Los Angeles, Adobe announced the introduction of the Molehill APIs in the Adobe Flash runtimes on mobile and desktop. Molehill is the codename for the set of 3D GPU-accelerated APIs that will be exposed in ActionScript 3 in Adobe Flash Player and Adobe AIR. This will enable high-end 3D rendering inside the Adobe Flash Platform. Molehill will rely on DirectX 9 on Windows and OpenGL 1.3 on Mac OS X and Linux. It is important to remember that the Molehill APIs do not use a fixed function pipeline. They use only a programmable pipeline, which means that you will have to work with vertex and fragment shaders to display anything on-screen.
A molehill was known as a 'wantitump', a word that continued in dialect use for centuries more. The old name of want was then replaced by mold(e)warp (meaning earth-thrower), a shortened version of which (molle) began to appear in the later 14th century and the word molehill in the first half of the 15th century. Look up make a mountain out of a molehill in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Making a mountain out of a molehill is an idiom referring to over-reactive, histrionic behaviour where a person makes too much of a minor issue. It seems to have come into existence in the 16th century.
Trail of molehill at Kasori-shell midden, Chiba city, Japan (2008 October, 13). A molehill (or mole-hill, mole mound) is a conical mound of loose soil raised by small burrowing mammals, including moles, but also similar animals such as mole-rats, marsupial moles and voles. They are often the only sign to indicate the presence of the animal. 