Coronary Heart Disease (CHD). Coronary heart disease (CHD) is a disease in which a waxy substance called plaque builds up inside the coronary arteries. These arteries supply oxygen-rich blood to your heart muscle. 
coronary failure, heart failure-inability of the heart to pump enough blood to sustain normal bodily functions. valvular heart disease-heart disease caused by stenosis of the cardiac valves and obstructed blood flow or caused by degeneration and blood regurgitation. 
Definition of cardiovascular diseases. Cardiovascular diseases are a group of disorders of the heart and blood vessels and include: 1  coronary heart disease: disease of the blood vessels supplying the heart muscle; 2  cerebrovascular disease: disease of the blood vessels supplying the brain; 
Definition of CORONARY HEART DISEASE. : a condition and especially one caused by atherosclerosis that reduces blood flow through the coronary arteries to the heart and typically results in chest pain or heart damage —called also coronary artery disease. 
Million Hearts® Be one in a million hearts. In the United States, the most common type of heart disease is coronary artery disease (CAD), which can lead to heart attack. You can greatly reduce your risk for CAD through lifestyle changes and, in some cases, medication. Learn more about heart disease. 
Coronary artery disease. The coronary arteries, which supply the heart with nutrients, oxygen and blood become diseased or damaged, usually because of plaque deposits (cholesterol-containing deposits). Plaque accumulation narrows the coronary arteries and the heart gets less oxygen. Angina. Also known as angina pectoris, angina occurs when an area of heart muscle does not get enough oxygen. The patient experiences chest discomfort, tightness or pain. Angina is not technically a disease, but rather a symptom of coronary artery disease.
heart disease-a disease of the heart. cardiopathy. cardiovascular disease-a disease of the heart or blood vessels. coronary heart disease-a heart disease due to an abnormality of the arteries that supply blood and oxygen to the heart. angina pectoris, angina-a heart condition marked by paroxysms of chest pain due to reduced oxygen to the heart. arrhythmia, cardiac arrhythmia-an abnormal rate of muscle contractions in the heart.
Definition. Coronary artery disease (CAD) is characterized by atherosclerosis in the epicardial coronary arteries. Atherosclerotic plaques, the hallmark of atherosclerosis, progressively narrow the coronary artery lumen and impair antegrade myocardial blood flow. 
Cardiovascular disease. Cardiovascular disease (CVD) includes all the diseases of the heart and circulation including coronary heart disease, angina, heart attack, congenital heart disease and stroke. It's also known as heart and circulatory disease. Other types of cardiovascular disease include heart valve disease and cardiomyopathy.