Autosomal recessive. Main article: Autosomal dominant#Autosomal recessive allele. Two copies of the gene must be mutated for a person to be affected by an autosomal recessive disorder. An affected person usually has unaffected parents who each carry a single copy of the mutated gene (and are referred to as carriers). Main article: Autosomal dominant#Autosomal dominant gene. Only one mutated copy of the gene will be necessary for a person to be affected by an autosomal dominant disorder. Each affected person usually has one affected parent. There is a 50% chance that a child will inherit the mutated gene.
Pseudodominance is situation where the inheritance of an autosomal recessive trait mimics an autosomal dominant pattern. [1] The pattern of inheritance in which the recessive allele could give its expression in absence of its dominant allele is known as pseudodominance. An autosomal dominant trait is one which manifests in the heterozygous state, i.e. in a person possessing both an abnormal or mutant allele and the normal allele. It is often possible to trace a dominantly inherited trait or disorder through many generations of a family (Fig. 7.2).
But aa would make the a trait show up. As long as a pair of alleles has a dominant allele (A), the trait that the dominant allele represents would show up. Autosomal dominant is a trait that results when the allele combination is AA or Aa. Autosomal recessive is a trait that results when the combination is aa. For example, albinism is an autosomal recessive trait. That means if a person has two recessive alleles (aa), then that person WILL be an albino. 
The first allele is dominant and the second allele is recessive. For genes on an autosome (any chromosome other than a sex chromosome), the alleles and their associated traits are autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive. Dominance is a key concept in Mendelian inheritance and classical genetics. 
3.3 Autosomal Recessive Inheritance. In autosomal recessive inheritance, two copies of a disease allele are required for an individual to be susceptible to expressing the phenotype. Typically, the parents of an affected individual are not affected but are gene carriers. As with autosomal dominant inheritance, the proportion of affected males should be equal to the proportion of affected females in a given population. Examples of diseases with autosomal recessive inheritance include sickle cell anemia and cystic fibrosis.
As in autosomal recessive inheritance, two copies of a disease allele on the X chromosome are required for an individual with two X chromosomes (a female) to be affected with an X-linked recessive disease. As with autosomal dominant inheritance, the proportion of affected males should be equal to the proportion of affected females in a given population. Examples of diseases with autosomal recessive inheritance include sickle cell anemia and cystic fibrosis.
3.2 Autosomal Dominant Inheritance. In autosomal dominant inheritance, only one copy of a disease allele is necessary for an individual to be susceptible to expressing the phenotype. With each pregnancy, there is a one in two (50%) chance the offspring will inherit the disease allele. As with autosomal dominant inheritance, the proportion of affected males should be equal to the proportion of affected females in a given population. Examples of diseases with autosomal recessive inheritance include sickle cell anemia and cystic fibrosis.
Autosomal dominant. One mutated copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient for a person to be affected by an autosomal dominant disorder. Each affected person usually has one affected parent (illustration). Autosomal dominant disorders tend to occur in every generation of an affected family. Huntington disease, neurofibromatosis type 1. Autosomal recessive. Two mutated copies of the gene are present in each cell when a person has an autosomal recessive disorder. An affected person usually has unaffected parents who each carry a single copy of the mutated gene (and are referred to as carriers) (illustration). Autosomal recessive disorders are typically not seen in every generation of an affected family. cystic fibrosis, sickle cell anemia. X-linked dominant
Autosomal dominant vs Autosomal recessive. Autosomal dominant. Main article: Autosomal dominant#Autosomal dominant gene. Only one mutated copy of the gene will be necessary for a person to be affected by an autosomal dominant disorder. Each affected person usually has one affected parent. There is a 50% chance that a child will inherit the mutated gene.