Blood tests are very common. When you have routine checkups, your doctor often orders blood tests to see how your body is working. Many blood tests don’t require any special preparations. For some, you may need to fast (not eat any food) for 8 to 12 hours before the test. Specifically, blood tests can help doctors: 1  Evaluate how well organs, like the kidneys, liver, and heart, are working. 2  Diagnose diseases like cancer, HIV/AIDS, diabetes, anaemia, and heart disease. 3  Learn whether you have risk factors for heart disease. 4  Check whether medicines you’re taking
There are hundreds of different blood tests that doctors can order. Common tests include for diseases, cholesterol, liver enzymes, and more. Blood tests are a standard part of any thorough physical, and nothing about which to worry. add a comment. Answer by dc8333 (420). That depends entirely on the reason the test was taken. There are a variety of things which can be found from testing blood, however doctors are only likely to test for something specific.
Overview. Blood tests are very common. When you have routine checkups, your doctor may recommend blood tests to see how your body is working. Many blood tests don't require any special preparations. For some, you may need to fast (not eat any food) for 8 to 12 hours before the test. Your doctor will let you know how to prepare for blood tests. During a blood test, a small sample of blood is taken from your body. It's usually drawn from a vein in your arm using a needle. A finger prick also might be used. The procedure usually is quick and easy, although it may cause some short-term discomfort.
This is a great question because the phrase 'routine blood tests' is common in doctors ' offices, and sometimes it is not very well explained! When you have a physical examination, there are several blood tests that are commonly done, depending on your age and your risk factors. For example, most adults, even if they are healthy, should have screening for high cholesterol levels at least once. This is probably the most common 'routine test' that doctors would do at a physical examination. Additionally, many doctors will screen for diabetes with blood tests. Depending on whether your blood pressure was elevated, they may also screen for kidney problem
Answer by traumatised (3285). They can look at all kinds of things in a blood sample: blood sugar levels, amounts of various hormones or salts and proteins that can indicate potential diseases or problems. They may also be looking at your red cell/white cell/plasma count, which can be indicative of other conditions. Answer by dc8333 (420). That depends entirely on the reason the test was taken. There are a variety of things which can be found from testing blood, however doctors are only likely to test for something specific.
Blood tests help doctors check for certain diseases and conditions. They also help check the function of your organs and show how well treatments are working. Specifically, blood tests can help doctors: 1  Evaluate how well organs—such as the kidneys, liver, thyroid, and heart—are working. 2  Diagnose diseases and conditions such as cancer, HIV/AIDS, diabetes, anemia (uh-NEE-me-eh), and coronary heart disease. 3  Find out whether you have risk factors for heart disease. Your doctor will let you know how to prepare for blood tests. During a blood test, a small sample of blood is taken from your body. It's usually drawn from a vein in your arm using a needle. A finger prick also might be used. The procedure usually is quick and easy, although it may cause some short-term discomfort.
Samples collected for cancer blood tests are analyzed in a lab for signs of cancer. The samples may show cancer cells, proteins or other substances made by the cancer. Blood tests can also give your doctor an idea of how well your organs are functioning and if they've been affected by cancer. Examples of blood tests used to diagnose cancer include: 1  Complete blood count (CBC). 2  This common blood test measures the amount of various types of blood cells in a sample of your blood. 3  Blood cancers may be detected using this test if too many or too few of a type of blood cell or abnormal cells are found. 1 This common blood test measures the amount of various types of blood cells in a sample of your blood. 2  Blood cancers may be detected using this test if too many or too few of a type of blood cell or abnormal cells are found. 3  A bone marrow biopsy may help confirm a diagnosis of a blood cancer. 4  Blood protein testing