A DVR (digital video recorder) is a Set-Top Box that records and stores television shows for viewing at a later time. A DVR can be used on only one outlet or you can have one for every outlet in your home. DVRs: 1  Work with your current equipment, including VCRs, DVD players and surround sound systems.
Best Answer: A DVR is just a hard drive that records the digital video signal, or converts the analog video signal to digital, and records that. You do not have to have cable. But, if you get a DVR from a cable or satellite provider, you get the best integration with their system, so you can do things like set timed recordings. As an example of this integration, I recently converted to AT&T's U-Verse, which has a 133 hour DVR-the system is absolutely awesome.
As the software is created easily, even beginners can work with it effortless. DVR Converter 3.0 is a converter for all your digital video recordings, compatible to DVD Recorders, Receiver, Digital Cameras, Harddisk Recorders, DVD-S and DVB-T Streams, PC Tuner cards-both PAL and HD resolutions.
What it Is. A DVR (digital video recorder) allows the user to digitally record, save and pause television programs. The information is saved to an internal hard drive and can be saved for however long the user sees fit and deleted with the press of a button.
Since DVR is wrapped with multiple data streams (audio and video), it is not widely recognized by most of the media players or video editing software. If a recorded broadcast is marked as copy protected, the resultant DVR file can only be played back on the recording device.
Note: DVR functionality is not available with Flash Media Streaming Server because of the server-side caching/recording requirements. Live DVR is the process of recording or caching a live video stream on the server and then enabling viewer access to the live or recorded stream content as it streams.
Click  Convert  button to button to start the DVR to AVI, or DVR to MPEG, or DVR to MP4, DVR to WMV conversion. It will be finished with smaller file size and high output quality. After a few minutes, the conversion will be finished and just click open folder to enjoy converted DVR video with any player you like.