Build Swimming Pool Cost. Total cost to build a swimming pool in Austin, TX is about $24,860 (32' x 16' inground). Indoor Swimming Pool Installation Cost. Total cost to install an indoor swimming pool in Austin, TX may range from $22,600 (11'x18'x40) up to $113,000. 
Home. We specialize in design and installation of exceptional pools and outdoor environments. If you will not compromise for less than an energy efficient, structurally superior and unique swimming pool, Custom Outdoor Trends is the ideal North Texas company to design and build your custom in-ground pool and spa. 
1 We have proudly been in business since 1994 and have built over 6,000 pools as a pool builder serving the Greater Austin, Houston, San Antonio and Dallas & Ft. 2  Worth Areas in Texas. 3  We are a financially solid company. 
For the purpose of this discussion, we will look at the costs associated with the installation of both kinds of modern swimming pools. According to P.K. Data the average cost of a 19' diameter above ground swimming pool is $6,243; while the average cost of a 32'x16' inground swimming pool is $21,919. 1 The vinyl is the least expensive with a standard cost of roughly $18,000. 2  The fiberglass bump up the costs to $20,000 without installation. 3  There are also concrete and gunite pools that require around $20,000 to $50,000 to install.
Vinyl pools take a longer time to install than fiberglass, since the pool is actually built onsite. The average cost of a swimming pool, even if you’re building it yourself, is about $25,000. Very little if any of the actual work of a new construction pool is performed by the pool company that sells the pool. The size and design of the pool affect the cost too, but not as much as you might think. Swimming pool design isn’t just limited to the shape of your pool, either. Depending on the lot, you may be limited in the choice of size, shape, and type of construction you choose for your pool or spa. 
Hello -. Here is a site that can get you several pool quotes... Austin is in Travis county of course: http://austin.freepoolquotes.com/. You might request a quote for a salt water pool and the newest trend, a UV pool. Both use alternate means {Salt, UV light} besides stabilized Chlorine for keeping them sanitized.
He has been in the pool service industry here in Austin for over 15 years and in the swimming pool industry for over 20 years and has worked in the world's largest swimming pool markets where he has developed his skills and gained experience through maintaining and repairing thousands of different swimming pools. Austin is in Travis county of course: http://austin.freepoolquotes.com/. You might request a quote for a salt water pool and the newest trend, a UV pool. Both use alternate means {Salt, UV light} besides stabilized Chlorine for keeping them sanitized.
Cody Pools is ranked by Pool and Spa News as #1 of all other pool builders in the Nation for the 3rd year in a row. We’re an award winning Texas based company that specializes in building spectacular and affordable swimming pools in the greater Austin, Houston and San Antonio areas. 
There are several factors that will determine the inground pool cost and that will be determined primarily by you. Although pool prices will vary from region to region in the country, a typical base pool price starts around $20,000 – $28,000 in most areas. This would cover a freeform, geometric, or classic-style pool with no spa attached
cost of pools in Austin. prepare for sticker shock....coming from Houston where so many homes have pools ...a nice pool w/spa and decking and landscaping was about $25-35K and we just got a pool estimate for a pool/spa and decking (landscaping not included) and the bid was between $55k = $66K OUCH. I definitely made the right choice. Price's obviously vary, but I put in a 38 ft pool, complete install for $41,000.00. They put in top of the line equipment to. Very impressed.