Another thing that determines how long the salmon is baked is oven temperature. Typically, recipes for baking salmon call for an oven temperature of 350 to 450 degrees. The salmon should always be put into a pre-heated oven. Cooking in an oven that hasn't been pre-heated can cause drying of the fish.
Place the bag with the marinade and salmon fillets in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. 1  Salmon, like all fish, is not as dense as red meats and poultry. 2  As a result, it does not need to be marinaded for long in order to absorb flavor. 3  Remove the salmon from the refrigerator at least 10 minutes prior to cooking. Place the bag with the marinade and salmon fillets in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. 1  Salmon, like all fish, is not as dense as red meats and poultry. 2
Place the salmon in the roasting pan: Place the salmon in the roasting pan, skin-side down. Transfer to the oven. Roast for 4 to 6 minutes per half-inch thickness of salmon: Roasting time depends on the thickness of your salmon, as determined by the thickest part of the salmon fillet. For every half-inch of salmon, roast 4 to 6 minutes — 4 minutes will give you salmon that is still a touch rare, 6 minutes will thoroughly cook it. Salmon is done when easily flaked: You can also check the doneness of your salmon with a fork. When the salmon flakes easily with a fork, it's ready
Directions. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Season salmon with salt and pepper. Place salmon, skin side down, on a non-stick baking sheet or in a non-stick pan with an oven-proof handle. Bake until salmon is cooked through, about 12 to 15 minutes. Serve with the Toasted Almond Parsley Salad and squash, if desired
Although not all salmon is contaminated with harmful organisms, the risk still exists. Fortunately, cooking the fillets to an internal temperature of 145 degrees Fahrenheit should eliminate that risk by killing the harmful organisms. But if you undercook your salmon, these organisms might remain intact. When contaminated fish is consumed, it can lead to a variety of food-borne illnesse
Salmon must always be cooked at about 400° Farenheit for optimal results. Fish cooks fast and must be baked at a high temperature to kill bacteria and cook the flesh evenly. The lowest possible temperature to cook Salmon is 350°, but this may result in a dried fish, unless it is completely wrapped in foil. For optimal baking results, each fillet or steak should be coated with olive oil, margarine or butter and then about 1 teaspoon of lemon juice should be drizzled over it. 
If you are asking the oven temp i would say at 350 F is fine. If you have a meat thermometer, i cook salmon to around 160 F so it is still very moist and not overcooked. Wow....this isn't chicken. 
Bake Until Opaque and Flaky. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F for fillets or 350 degrees F for a dressed fish. You can bake the fillets at a lower temperature, if desired, but remember to increase the cooking time. Bake salmon fillets or steaks, uncovered, for 4 to 6 minutes per 1/2-inch thickness. For a dressed salmon, bake for 6 to 9 minutes per 8 ounces of fish. To test for doneness, insert a fork into the salmon and gently twist.
Safe Temperature. The United States Food and Drug Administration recommends cooking salmon to an internal temperature of 145 degrees Fahrenheit. Push the tip of the meat thermometer gently into the middle of the salmon fillet at its thickest part. Fortunately, cooking the fillets to an internal temperature of 145 degrees Fahrenheit should eliminate that risk by killing the harmful organisms. But if you undercook your salmon, these organisms might remain intact.