In my next post, I'll share some of our ideas about the facilitation moves we make. In the meantime, please share in the comments section below your stories of working in effective teams and your thoughts about what makes a good team. Learn More About School Leadership. I've been thinking a lot about what makes a good team in a school context. I'll share some of these thoughts, but I really want to hear your ideas on this subject. I'm going to admit that it's taken me a while to feel convinced by the power of teams. Until recently, I didn't have great experiences in teams
Are you a school counselor or thinking of becoming one? What are the most important attributes an effective school counselor should have? This week, in honor of National School Counseling Week (February 7 though 11), Education World asked school counselors to reflect on what makes them effective. Those are some of the attributes of an effective school counselor. There are many others. School counselors shared with Education World some of the other characteristics that a good school counselor might possess.
The fact that so many people believe that one test on a couple of mornings each spring can determine school quality, teacher quality, and student learning shows an alarming lack of understanding in what makes a good school. Although there is pressure to perform, it comes in a way that promotes learning, with an expectation that students will excel and the support is provided to make it happen. 2. Highest Expectations For the School, Teachers and Students. Only the best is good enough.
The recent spotlight on school quality should help ensure a better education for all students. However, using one tool, and one as limited as a one or two day test doesn't accurately portray schools. Although test scores are important, rarely do you hear about examining all the factors that make a school successful. These characteristics make a school good: 1. Students Want to be There. Although there is pressure to perform, it comes in a way that promotes learning, with an expectation that students will excel and the support is provided to make it happen. 2. Highest Expectations For the School, Teachers and Students. Only the best is good enough.
“There is no one factor that makes a school successful. In the successful schools we have seen, visionary leaders work side by side with committed teachers creating a warm, respectful, optimistic and achievement-oriented climate, she says. Research carried out by David Miller Sadker and Karen R. Zittleman for McGraw-Hill Higher Education identified a common set of characteristics that effective schools seemed to share. This now often referred to as the five factor theory.
When choosing a school, the first thing that anyone wants to know is whether or not it provides students with an effective learning environment. By looking at results such as state test scores, student performance, retention and graduation rates, you can get a fairly clear picture of how well a school is doing its job. Research carried out by David Miller Sadker and Karen R. Zittleman for McGraw-Hill Higher Education identified a common set of characteristics that effective schools seemed to share. This now often referred to as the five factor theory.
Leadership is an essential component of a school’s successes or failure. The best schools will have an effective school leader or group of leaders. In a school setting, a leader must be multifaceted as they deal with other administrators, teachers, support staff, students, and parents on a daily basis. A leader will ensure that everyone understands what is expected of them while they are at school. They create specific policies that address each situation and enforce them when they are broken. An effective school leader makes difficult decisions.
The Effective Schools Research Abstracts are an excellent resource that makes finding the research you need faster and easier. Download your FREE Research Summary written by Dr. Larry Lezotte in February 2012. 26 years of research are available online with the Effective Schools Research LiNK. For more information about a membership, click here. The Fundamentals of Effective Schools. Three very important papers, an introduction on the Correlates of Effective Schools, a PowerPoint presentation, and an article on the Evolution of the Effective Schools Movement are listed below.
T eachers and researchers have long debated what makes some schools better than others. To investigate this question, the Inner London Education Authority conduct ed a four-year study of the effective ness of elementary education. 