The aurora borealis (northern lights) form when charged particles emitted from the sun during a solar flare penetrate the earth's magnetic shield and collide with atoms and molecules in our atmosphere. 
1 Some particles get deflected around the Earth, while others interact with the magnetic field lines, causing currents of charged particles within the magnetic fields to travel toward both poles -- this is why there are simultaneous auroras in both hemispheres. 1 When they hit the ionosphere region of the Earth's upper atmosphere, they collide with ions of oxygen and nitrogen. 2  The particles impact the oxygen and nitrogen ions and transfer their energy to these ions.
In the Northern Hemisphere, they are popularly called Northern Lights, and officially known as Aurora Borealis (meaning northern dawn); in the Southern Hemisphere, they are known as Aurora Australis or the Southern Lights. Originating in an atmospheric layer high above the surface of the Earth, auroras are generally seen at altitudes between 100 km and 500km. They are most frequently seen in the auroral ovals, which are two rough circles centered on the magnetic poles of the Earth with a diameter of about 3000 km.
The solar wind is a stream of plasma, charged particles created by collisions of atoms in the intense heat of the sun’s atmosphere, or corona. These charged particles, mostly protons and electrons, have their own magnetic field. They reach Earth at speeds of 350 to 400 km per second. Originating in an atmospheric layer high above the surface of the Earth, auroras are generally seen at altitudes between 100 km and 500km. They are most frequently seen in the auroral ovals, which are two rough circles centered on the magnetic poles of the Earth with a diameter of about 3000 km.
Polar cusps are found on the solar side of the magnetosphere (the area around the Earth that's influenced by the magnetic field). Let's look at how this leads to an aurora. 1  As the charged particles of solar winds and flares hit the Earth's magnetic field, they travel along the field lines. 1 When they hit the ionosphere region of the Earth's upper atmosphere, they collide with ions of oxygen and nitrogen. 2  The particles impact the oxygen and nitrogen ions and transfer their energy to these ions.
Because auroras are caused by the interaction of solar winds with the Earth's magnetic field, you can see them most often near the poles, both north and south. In the north, they're called aurora borealis, or Northern Lights. 
Images of the aurora australis and aurora borealis from around the world, including those with rarer red and blue lights. An aurora is a natural light display in the sky, predominantly seen in the high latitude (Arctic and Antarctic) regions. It is visible from high southern latitudes in Antarctica, South America, New Zealand, and Australia. Auroras also occur on other planets. Similar to the Earth's aurora, they are also visible close to the planets’ magnetic poles.
Aurora Borealis-the enchanting phenomenon in the sky. Aurora Borealis (The Northern lights) is a very beautiful phenomenon of light seen in the northern and southern polar region. The electrical particles (protons and electrons) come from the Sun to the magnetic field of the Earth. In the northernmost Lapland the Northern lights are seen in over 200 nights in the year. Even in the southern part of Finland you can see ten to twenty aurora shows during one year. The best time for seeing aurorae is in the magnetic midnight.
Auroras are indicators of the connection between the Earth and the sun. The frequency of auroras correlates to the frequency of solar activity and the sun's 11-year cycle of activity. As the process of fusion occurs inside the sun, it spews high-energy particles (ions, electrons, protons, neutrinos) and radiation in the solar wind. 1 When they hit the ionosphere region of the Earth's upper atmosphere, they collide with ions of oxygen and nitrogen. 2  The particles impact the oxygen and nitrogen ions and transfer their energy to these ions.
The auroras of Earth are some of the most spectacular skywatching experiences on the planet and never fail to delight observers lucky enough to see them. Also known as the northern and southern lights, Earth's auroras are caused by interactions of solar particles in the planet's upper atmosphere. See how they work in the SPACE.com infographic above. 