The All-American Cat. The Maine coon is a true, red-blooded American native. The only cat breed to have been developed in the United States, the Maine coon is also the largest among cat breeds. Because of their size and temperament, Maine coon cats are often referred to as dog-like by breeders and fans of the breed.
A new breed of cat that looks like a werewolf and behaves like a dog has been developed by U.S. breeders. The Lykoi gets its spooky looks because of a genetic mutation in a domestic shorthair cat, which prevents the curious creature from growing a full coat of fur, making it looks like a werewolf.
He walks right next to you like a dog and is very loyal! If you're looking for a fun and energetic cat then I suggest getting a Napoleon cross munchkin kitten/cat. Maine Coons are also a very friendly breed that will create a close bond with the owner.
Most dog-like cat breed is the hybrid Savannah, a cross between a domestic cat and the African Serval. They are enormous (up to 35 lbs.) and are known for their love of water (unlike most cats).
10 Dog breeds that behave like cats. by Jana Randall Following. Jana Randall is a busy mother, loving wife, and active career woman from Arizona. In her free time, Jana writes to cover topics on home, living, and pets, while also working full time and blogging.
Some cats like to play fetch. If you're looking for a cat that's a lot like a dog, you're in luck. There are several breeds of cat widely known to be very dog-like in temperament and personality. Since cats are individuals, however, not all cats of one breed will share this trait.
Maybe you really want a cat but are simply too allergic to get one or you are just plain curious about dogs that behave like cats. Whatever your reasoning for perusing this list, here are the top three cat-like dog breeds.
Another loyal breed, the Manchester Terrier may look a little intimidating but he's an affectionate dog through and through. Forming a tight bond with his owner straight away, he loves to cuddle up on a lap all day long. Similar to a cat, the pup will likely follow a rat or insect out of the house if he feels the need.
#2 The Abyssinian. Another water-loving cat, this extremely loyal feline will play fetch and carry its favorite toys around in its mouth, just like a dog. And like dogs, the Abyssinian will follow their humans around, help out (whether you want it to or not), and respond to leash training, too.