1 Keep the refrigerator temperature at or below 40° F (4° C). 2  The freezer temperature should be 0° F (-18° C). 3  Check temperatures periodically. 4  Appliance thermometers are the best way of knowing these temperatures and are generally inexpensive. 1 Also, when putting food away, don't crowd the refrigerator or freezer so tightly that air can't circulate. 2  Keep your appliances at the proper temperatures. 3  Keep the refrigerator temperature at or below 40° F (4° C). 4  The freezer temperature should be 0° F (-18° C). 5
Normally a domestic freezer is best set to −18 °C (0 °F) or colder, as that's what the expiration dates for many food items are based on. It's also a requirement for freezers in restaurants, supermarkets & other places that sell food (at least here in Europe) to maintain a temperature of at most -18 °C. A general purpose domestic fridge should be at around 1-4 °C (so, just above the freezing point, and below 5 °C). In order to keep food out of the Danger Zone, your fridge must be set between 32-40°F (0-4°C). Your freezer must be below 32°F (0°C). I keep mine as cold as it will go. Keep your freezer efficient by half-filling it with bottles of water.
1 A fridge should have a temperature of between 37°F(3°C) and 40°F (5°C). 2  Any higher and the food will go off, any lower and you’ll lose nutrients and fresh food can be ruined. 3  The ideal freezer temperature is 0°F (-18°C) which will store food safely and stop bacteria forming. To measure the temperature: 1  Fridge: put the thermometer in a glass of water. 2  Check the temperature during the first door opening after not using the fridge for 8 hours or more (such as overnight). 3  Freezer: put thermometer between two bags of vegetables and as above check after 8 hours or more.
Therefore, you want your refrigerator to be cold, but not so cold that it freezes things. The preferred temperature is somewhere between 35 and 38 degrees F (1.7 to 3.3 degrees C). Anything higher and foods will spoil too quickly (it also presents food poisoning problems, as described in several of the links below). 
If you keep potatoes in the fridge they should not be stored at temperatures below 7 °C (45 °F). If, that is, you intend to use them for roasting for frying. At lower temperatures the starch in the potato breaks down giving a burnt look and a bitter taste after roasting. In order to keep food out of the Danger Zone, your fridge must be set between 32-40°F (0-4°C). Your freezer must be below 32°F (0°C). I keep mine as cold as it will go. Keep your freezer efficient by half-filling it with bottles of water.
In order to keep food out of the Danger Zone, your fridge must be set between 32-40° F (0-4 degrees Celsius). Your freezer must be below 32° F (0° Celsius). I keep mine as cold as it will go. Keep your freezer efficient by half-filling it with bottles of water. You're not hugging the danger zone like you would be at 40° F (4.4° C), and you're distancing yourself sufficiently from 32° F (0° C) that you don't freeze half the stuff in your refrigerator.
Commercial (store) freezers are kept at 0 degree F, because of the large amount of products that need to be kept frozen. Home freezers and the freezer side of a refrigerator are usually about 20 deg F. Make sure when you store food in either side, that it is not packed tightly. There should be space for air circulation to maintain correct temperatures. The refrigerator side should have a temp between 35-40 degrees F. 
Everyone should have a refrigerator thermometer to monitor temperature. Buy the best quality thermometer that you can afford. To check the temperature of your refrigerator, put a glass of water in the middle of the refrigerator and put the thermometer in it. Wait 8 hours before checking temperature. 
1 If you do lose power, keep the doors to your fridge and freezer closed as much as possible to keep foods cold. 2  Before using any foods, check your refrigerator and freezer thermometers. 3  If the fridge is still at or below 40 °F, or the food has been above 40 °F for only two hours or less, it should be safe to eat. 
The FDA advises that you should keep the temperature of your fridge between 32 and 40 degrees Fahrenheit, preferably right in the middle of that range, at, say, 35 degrees. Set the temperature at 35, and you avoid the risk of frozen food (that’s what the freezer’s for!) and you avoid the risk of spoilage. That said, this does not mean the temperature inside your fridge will be uniformly 35; temperatures can vary depending on the part of the fridge. So, in conclusion: set your fridge temp at 35 and be mindful of what you put in the door. While you’re at it with the fridge, make sure to set your freezer temperature below 32 degrees. This sounds super obvious, but it’s super important.