Uses of This Medicine. Lubiprostone is used to treat chronic constipation in adults. It is also used to treat constipation caused by opioid (narcotic) medicines in adults with chronic, non-cancer pain. 
How to use Amitiza. Take this medication by mouth with food and water as directed by your doctor, usually twice daily. Swallow the medication whole. Do not break or chew the medication. The dosage is based on your medical condition and response to treatment. 
Amitiza Dosing for Constipation. In people with impaired liver function, your dose may need to be reduced. For moderate liver impairment, the recommended dose is 16 mcg twice daily. The recommended dose for severe liver impairment is 8 mcg twice daily. 
Amitiza: Oral capsule (8mcg) | Amitiza: Oral capsule (24mcg). Patient Experiences with Amitiza. Close. We want to help you stay educated about the medications you are taking. View other. patient's observations and share your own. Be sure to consult your health care provider before taking any medications. 
Patient/Family Teaching. 1  Instruct patient to take lubiprostone as directed. 2  Inform patient that dyspnea may occur within 1 hr of first dose; usually resolves within 3 hrs, but may return with repeat doses. 3  Advise patients that lubiprostone may cause diarrhea. 4  May cause dizziness. 5  Advise female patients that a negative pregnancy test should be ... 
Amitiza. LUBIPROSTONE is a laxative. It is used to treat chronic constipation and constipation caused by opioids (certain prescription pain medicines). It is also used to treat adult women with irritable bowel syndrome who have constipation. 
23 Reviews. 23 Reviews. Amitiza is the brand name for lubiprostone, a prescription drug used to relieve bloating and abdominal discomfort, improve stool texture, reduce the need to strain when you go to the bathroom, and decrease the feeling that you haven't completely relieved yourself. Pregnancy and Amitiza. If you are pregnant, planning a pregnancy or breastfeeding tell your doctor before taking Amitiza. Amitiza is in FDA Pregnancy Category C, meaning it there's some evidence it may harm a developing fetus and should only be taken when the benefits outweigh the risks.
Amitiza. LUBIPROSTONE is a laxative. It is used to treat chronic constipation and constipation caused by opioids (certain prescription pain medicines). It is also used to treat adult women with irritable bowel syndrome who have constipation. 
What are the possible side effects of lubiprostone (Amitiza)? Get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic reaction: hives; difficult breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat. Call your doctor at once if you have severe or ongoing nausea or diarrhea. Common side effects may include: 1  mild nausea, stomach pain; 2  mild diarrhea, gas, bloating; or. 3  headache. 