Harmful Effects of the Agent. Genetically modified organisms (GMOs) are a broad group of plants, animals, and bacteria that are engineered for a wide variety of applications ranging from agricultural production to scientific research. Most of the concern surrounding GMOs relates to their potential for negative effects on the environment and human health. Because GMOs that could directly effect human health are primarily products that can enter the human food supply, this website focuses on genetically modified food.
A new report claims that genetically modified foods (or organisms) can damage your health and even cause cancer, but some experts say they’re an inexpensive and healthy way to put dinner on your table. 
8. GMOs harm the environment. GM crops and their associated herbicides can harm birds, insects, amphibians, marine ecosystems, and soil organisms. They reduce bio-diversity, pollute water resources, and are unsustainable. 3. GMOs increase herbicide use. Most GM crops are engineered to be “herbicide tolerant”―they deadly weed killer. Monsanto, for example, sells Roundup Ready crops, designed to survive applications of their Roundup herbicide. Between 1996 and 2008, US farmers sprayed an extra 383 million pounds of herbicide on GMOs
GMOs are bad for your body, bad for the community, bad for farmers and bad for the environment. This is why: 1  The health consequences of eating genetically modified organisms are largely unknown. 2  Genetically engineered foods have not been shown to be safe to eat and may have unpredictable consequences. 1 Biotech firms sell sterile seeds to African farmers-meaning the seeds are only good for one season, because the plants that grow up will not be able to reproduce. 2  Farmers must buy new seeds every year instead of growing from the previous year’s yield. 3  GMOs are not the farmers’ friend.
Numerous health problems increased after GMOs were introduced in 1996. The percentage of Americans with three or more chronic illnesses jumped from 7% to 13% in just 9 years; food allergies skyrocketed, and disorders such as autism, reproductive disorders, digestive problems, and others are on the rise. 3. GMOs increase herbicide use. Most GM crops are engineered to be “herbicide tolerant”―they deadly weed killer. Monsanto, for example, sells Roundup Ready crops, designed to survive applications of their Roundup herbicide. Between 1996 and 2008, US farmers sprayed an extra 383 million pounds of herbicide on GMOs
This is why: 1  The health consequences of eating genetically modified organisms are largely unknown. 2  Food items that contain GMOs are unlabeled in America. 3  Genetic engineering reduces genetic diversity. 4  Once the mutant genes are out of the bag, there is no going back. 5  GMOs are not the answer for global food security. 6  Genetically engineered foods ... 1 Biotech firms sell sterile seeds to African farmers-meaning the seeds are only good for one season, because the plants that grow up will not be able to reproduce. 2  Farmers must buy new seeds every year instead of growing from the previous year’s yield. 3  GMOs are not the farmers’ friend.
In addition to the potential health risks, there is some evidence that GMOs are bad for the environment. The Union of Concerned Scientists (UCSUSA) mentions six ways that GMOs might have a negative environmental impact. 1  GMO crops could become weeds. This is bad if you're trying to avoid GMO ingredients. While you may associate GMOs with only corn or soy products, they are found in many foods, especially processed foods, including but not limited to: 1  Vegetable oils. 2  Lecithin.
Share on Facebook Tweet on Twitter. Genetically modified organisms, or GMOs, are created when a gene from one species is transferred to another, creating something that would not be found in nature. 1 Biotech firms sell sterile seeds to African farmers-meaning the seeds are only good for one season, because the plants that grow up will not be able to reproduce. 2  Farmers must buy new seeds every year instead of growing from the previous year’s yield. 3  GMOs are not the farmers’ friend.
The way GMOs are created disrupts the plant’s DNA in unintended, potentially harmful ways. In genetic engineering, a single gene is removed from one organism and forcibly inserted into another. First, scientists identify the gene they want and analyze its sequence. 1 Avoid these oils, unless they are organic or labeled non-GMO. Choose any other oil, e.g., olive, sunflower, or safflower. 2  Check the list of ingredients for GM enzymes, additives, sweeteners, soy and/or corn derivatives.