The basic principle of being a gestalt learner is experiencing the whole as greater than the sum of its parts. In other words, the whole (a picture, a car) carries a different and altogether greater meaning than its individual components (paint, canvas, brush; or tire, paint, metal, respectively).
1. (Psychology) (sometimes not capital) a perceptual pattern or structure possessing qualities as a whole that cannot be described merely as a sum of its parts. See also Gestalt psychology. [C20: German: form, from Old High German stellen to shape]. (gəˈʃtɑlt, -ˈʃtɔlt, -ˈstɑlt, -ˈstɔlt). n., pl.
Gestalt psychology is a school of thought that believes all objects and scenes can be observed in their simplest forms. Sometimes referred to as the 'Law of Simplicity,' the theory proposes that the whole of an object or scene is more important than its individual parts.
Medical Definition of GESTALT. : a structure, arrangement, or pattern of physical, biological, or psychological phenomena so integrated as to constitute a functional unit with properties not derivable by summation of its parts.
Gestalt (Noun). alternative spelling of gestalt. gestalt (Noun). A collection of physical, biological, psychological or symbolic entities that creates a unified concept, configuration or pattern which is greater than the sum of its parts (of a character, personality, or being). gestalt (Noun). shape, form. Origin: .
Full Definition of GESTALT. : a structure, configuration, or pattern of physical, biological, or psychological phenomena so integrated as to constitute a functional unit with properties not derivable by summation of its parts.
GESTALT. Gestalt is a general description for the concepts that make unity and variety possible in design. It is a German word that roughly translates as whole or form.. Gestalt theory is involved with visual perception and the psychology of art among other things.
• GESTALT (noun). The noun GESTALT has 1 sense: 1. a configuration or pattern of elements so unified as a whole that it cannot be described merely as a sum of its parts. Familiarity information: GESTALT used as a noun is very rare.