There are two membranes, and inside the inner membrane is the gelatanous matrix called the stroma. The stroma contains ribosomes, DNA, and is the location for biochemical synthesis. Membranous sacs called thylakoids are arranged in stacks called grana. The chlorophyll in the thylakoid membranes carries out photosynthesis. 
The space on the very inside of the mitochondria past the cristae (folds in the inner membrane) is called the mitochondrial matrix. 
Glycolysis takes place in the cell's. The remainder of cellular respiration takes place in organelles called. The Krebs Cycle. The Krebs Cycle takes place in the fluid-filled area inside the inner membrane of the mitochondria known as the. Some and other energy carrying molecules are produced here. The gas is a byproduct of this process. 
It is called the Cytoplasm. The fluid inside a Cell is called cytoplasm. It serves as a medium were organelles such as vesicles, mitochondria and the Golgi Apparatus are ins … ide, providing the cell with Life's needs; [ALSO the major ingredient of the fluid inside cells is (WATER)]. + 23 others found this useful. Sanjeev Mahajan.
The mitochondrial matrix is the content enclosed by the inner membrane. The fluid inside the mitochondria is called the matrix. Most of the chemical reactions of the cellular respiration process happens in the inner membrane of the mitochondria due to the high concentration of enzymes. Mitochondria is a membrane bound cellular structure and is found in most of the eukaryotic cells. The mitochondria ranges from 0.5 to 1.0 micrometer in diameter. The mitochondria are sometimes described as power plants of the cells.
Chloroplasts have two membranes, similar to mitochondria. In addition to these membranes, they have closed compartments called grana. Grana are found inside the inner membrane, and each granum is made up of few to several dish shaped structures called thylakoids. The chlorophyll is found on these thylakoids. • Mitochondria have matrix, and chloroplasts have stroma. • Unlike the mitochondria, chloroplasts contain a pigment called chlorophyll and thylakoid disks. • Unlike the inner membrane of the chloroplasts, the inner membrane of the mitochondria is folded to form cristae. Related posts:
The fluid found in the innermost part of mitochondria is called the mitochondrial matrix. The mitochondrial matrix is a viscous fluid that contains the mitochondria's DNA an … d ribosomes. The fluid inside a Cell is called cytoplasm. It serves as a medium were organelles such as vesicles, mitochondria and the Golgi Apparatus are ins … ide, providing the cell with Life's needs; [ALSO the major ingredient of the fluid inside cells is (WATER)]. + 23 others found this useful. Sanjeev Mahajan.
The intracellular fluid of inside a cell called the cytosol. It is separate from certain cell organelles such as the nucleus and the mitochondria. In eukaryotes, the cytoplasm is the content within a cell membrane minus the content in the cell nucleus. 
In the eukaryotic cell, the cytosol is within the cell membrane and is part of the cytoplasm, which also comprises the mitochondria, plastids, and other organelles (but not their internal fluids and structures); the cell nucleus is separate. The cytosol or intracellular fluid (ICF) or cytoplasmic matrix is the liquid found inside cells. It is separated into compartments by membranes. For example, the mitochondrial matrix separates the mitochondrion into many compartments