Cinnamon and honey deliver a double dose of health benefits. Cinnamon and honey spice up pies and sweeten biscuits, but they may also boost your health and reduce your risk of developing certain chronic diseases. Both have been used for centuries as folk remedies for various ailments. If you buy commercial honey off a shelf in your grocery store, chances are good there are no nutrients left in it. A November 2011 report in Food Safety News explains that most commercial honey suppliers have filtered out the pollen -- a process that also removes nutrients.
You may also want to note the colour of the honey as it sometimes may be an indicator of the length of storage or amount of exposure to heat. For most consumers, good quality honey is expected to be visually free of defect -- clean and clear. Honey is color graded into light, amber, and dark categories which do not really have any bearing on quality. Some of the most distinctively and strongly flavored honey varieties, such as basswood, are very light, while very mild and pleasant honeys such as tulip poplar can be quite dark.
Honey gets its sweetness from the monosaccharides fructose and glucose, and has about the same relative sweetness as granulated sugar. It has attractive chemical properties for baking and a distinctive flavor that leads some people to prefer it over sugar and other sweeteners. Honeys are also produced by bumblebees, stingless bees, and other hymenopteran insects such as honey wasps, though the quantity is generally lower and they have slightly different properties compared to honey from the genus Apis.
Pronounce it: huh-nee. Honey is made by bees from the nectar they collect from flowers. Viscous and fragrant, it's a natural sweetener and can be used just as it is to spread on bread or toast, or added to sweet and savoury dishes. Honey doesn't need any preparation. If clear honey becomes cloudy (as a result of the natural process of crystallisation) just stand the jar in a bowl of very hot water for 15 minutes or so, or give it a blast in the microwave (with the lid removed, if it's made of metal) for around 30 seconds.
HMF is a break-down product of fructose (one of the main sugars in honey) formed slowly during storage and very quickly when honey is heated. The amount of HMF present in honey is therefore used as a guide to storage length and the amount of heating which has taken place. Honey is color graded into light, amber, and dark categories which do not really have any bearing on quality. Some of the most distinctively and strongly flavored honey varieties, such as basswood, are very light, while very mild and pleasant honeys such as tulip poplar can be quite dark.
Bees swallow, digest and regurgitate nectar to make honey; this nectar contains almost 600 compounds. We need our bees, so let s do everything we can to save them and keep them here on this earth. Honey is so good we have included it in our list of powerfoods that should be in your kitchen right now. “My son, eat thou honey, for it is good ” King Solomon – Proverbs: 24:13. Health Benefits: 1. Prevent cancer and heart disease : Honey contains flavonoids, antioxidants which help reduce the risk of some cancers and heart disease. 2. Reduce ulcers and other gastrointestinal disorders.
Honey /ˈhʌni/ is a sweet food made by bees using nectar from flowers. The variety produced by honey bees (the genus Apis) is the one most commonly referred to, as it is the type of honey collected by most beekeepers and consumed by people. Honeys are also produced by bumblebees, stingless bees, and other hymenopteran insects such as honey wasps, though the quantity is generally lower and they have slightly different properties compared to honey from the genus Apis.
Some people believe that good quality honey essentially has a low water content as honey is likely to ferment and lose its freshness if its water content, which can be measured using a gadget called refractometer, is greater than 19%. All unpasteurized, raw honey contains wild yeasts. Honey is color graded into light, amber, and dark categories which do not really have any bearing on quality. Some of the most distinctively and strongly flavored honey varieties, such as basswood, are very light, while very mild and pleasant honeys such as tulip poplar can be quite dark.
Story at-a-glance 1  +. Honey is a blend of sugar, trace enzymes, minerals, vitamins, and amino acids that has antibacterial, anti-fungal, and antioxidant properties. 2  Honey works as well as dextromethorphan, a common ingredient in over-the-counter cough medications, to soothe cough and related sleeping difficulties. Honey, particularly in its raw form, offers unique health benefits that you might not be aware of. Among them…. 1. Honey Makes Excellent Cough “Medicine”. The World Health Organization (WHO) lists honey as a demulcent, which is a substance that relieves irritation in your mouth or throat by forming a protective film.