1 Once the diaper change is over, make sure to wash off or disinfect the toys afterward. 2  Double check. 3  During diaper changes, a baby’s flailing hands -- and especially feet -- have the unfortunate tendency to land in poop. 4  So after he’s changed but before he’s dressed, make sure that baby’s still clean. 1 So after he’s changed but before he’s dressed, make sure that baby’s still clean. 2  Wash off your baby’s hands. 3  Whether or not you’ve actually seen your baby touch anything nasty during the diaper change, it’s still a good idea to wash her hands once you’re done. 4  Wash your own hands right away.
The SnoofyBee-Clean Hands Changing Pad is perfect for parents on the go. It folds small enough to be easily packable and fits diapers, wipes and a change of clothes inside the folded pad. Adjustable barrier to keep little hands out of the mess. The patent-pending Clean Hands Changing Pad has sides that attach to create a barrier that keep your baby's hands away from the diaper mess. The pad adjusts to fit your growing baby and has enough space for your child's hands to remain free to play. Pre-oder now
· The Clean Hands Changing Pad-SnoofyBee. We have an exciting update today! The most common question we have received since our launch has been “what other colors and patterns are there to choose from?”In response we sent out a survey to all of our backers with some color and pattern options to get your opinions. Check it out and share this with your friends: https://www.kickstarter.com/…/the-clean-hands-changing-pad-…. The Clean Hands Changing Pad-SnoofyBeekickstarter.com. The Clean Hands Changing Pad-SnoofyBeekickstarter.com.
July 13, 2015 by Anna Stallcup Leave a Comment. “The changing pad is made so that you won’t have to add one more thing to the laundry but it does hold up well if you wash in a washing machine on delicate and then lay it out to dry.” -Michael Perry, SnoofyBee. Changing a toddler’s diaper can be… challenging. 
1 Wash your hands before you change the pad. 2  You want your hands to be clean when you handle the new pad. 3  You should change your pad every 3-4 hours, unless your period is heavy. 4  In that case, you should change your pad more frequently. Remove the pad by gripping a clean edge between your fingers and peeling it off your underwear. If your pad has wings, you'll want to pull those off first. It's easiest to grab the front or back edge of the pad and simply pull it--it should separate from your underwear easily. 1  4 Edit step.
Dirty diapers no longer have to lead to dirty baby hands. There will soon be a solution for parents tired of wrestling their kids’ arms away from the mess of a diaper change: the SnoofyBee Clean Hands Changing Pad, which boasts a barrier that encloses little ones’ arms during diaper duty.
The bathroom will provide plenty of privacy, plus a hand-washing sink and toilet paper should you need it. You can change in another private place (like your bedroom), but the bathroom is the most convenient. 1  Wash your hands before you change the pad. 2  You want your hands to be clean when you handle the new pad. Remove the pad by gripping a clean edge between your fingers and peeling it off your underwear. If your pad has wings, you'll want to pull those off first. It's easiest to grab the front or back edge of the pad and simply pull it--it should separate from your underwear easily. 1  4 Edit step.
The SnoofyBee Clean Hands Changing Pad is not your ordinary diaper changing pad. It provides all the benefits of a standard changing pad plus a patent pending barrier that keeps your child’s hands out of the mess. After dozens of prototypes and designs he has a product that is innovative, functional and comfortable for both baby and parent. With a network of connections in manufacturing and distribution he is ready to launch the Clean Hands Changing Pad worldwide.
Thanks to everyone who has contributed and shared our project, the Clean Hands Changing Pad is now 80% funded after just 6 days on Kickstarter! The response has been AMAZING! We are almost there, please help spread the word by sharing this link and liking our facebook page if you haven't already. Check it out and share this with your friends: https://www.kickstarter.com/…/the-clean-hands-changing-pad-…. The Clean Hands Changing Pad-SnoofyBeekickstarter.com. The Clean Hands Changing Pad-SnoofyBeekickstarter.com. The Clean Hands Changing Pad-SnoofyBee.