Research Salaries in Tennessee. Someone who is considering becoming a teacher in Tennessee may want to know what the average salaries are for Tennessee teachers. According to the National Education Association, the average salary for a Tennessee certified teacher during the 2011-2012 school year was $46,613. This number reflects a 1.6% increase from the previous year and a 21% increase since 2001. Salaries can vary considerably for those with teaching certification in Tennessee. Factors include the location of the school, the grade and subject taught, and the teacher’s level of experience.
The salary for someone with the job title Teacher Kindergarten in Nashville, TN varies depending on a number of factors. Requires a bachelor's degree in area of specialty and 2-4 years of experience in the field or in a related area. Familiar with standard concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field. Relies on limited experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. Performs a variety of tasks.
Kindergarten Teachers, Except Special Education can get an average salary of Thirty Eight Thousand Five Hundred dollars yearly. Kindergarten Teachers, Except Special Education make the most money in Rhode Island, where they receive pay of close to about $67720. Employees with these job titles are compensated at the highest average salary in Other Services (except Public Administration), where they can receive average compensation of $52670.
The average teacher salary in Knox County School District is $41,020. To learn how to become a teacher in the Knox County School District, read our how to become a teacher in Tennessee article. For average salary information, read our average teacher salary in Tennessee article.
The average teacher salary in Putnam County School District is $37,660. To learn how to become a teacher in the Putnam County School District, read our how to become a teacher in Tennessee article. For average salary information, read our average teacher salary in Tennessee article.
Salary raise last year: 1.0 %. Salary raise over 10 years: 21.0 %. Tennessee is 13th on our comfort scale with starting salaries of $34,098 and average salaries of $47,563. This state is famous for being the hotbed of country music. So, if you've got a thing for Kenney Chesney and friends, this is a great place for you to teach and get your master's in education
Job Outlook. Employment of kindergarten and elementary school teachers is projected to grow 12 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. Growth is expected due to projected increases in enrollment as well as declines in student–teacher ratios. 11%
Tennessee has beautiful countryside and is known for agriculture, but the state does not have many high-paying jobs for early education workers. The average salaries for kindergarten teachers and child care workers are closest to the national average, at approximately $44,000 and $18,000, respectively. Chattanooga and Memphis are where many of the higher-paying jobs are.
Job Description for Teacher Kindergarten. Prepares lesson plans and instructs children between ages 4-6 years. Evaluates and monitors student's performance. Requires a bachelor's degree in area of specialty and 2-4 years of experience in the field or in a related area. Familiar with standard concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field. Relies on limited experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. Performs a variety of tasks.
Average Kindergarten Teacher salaries for job postings in Tennessee are 7% lower than average Kindergarten Teacher salaries for job postings nationwide. 