Mashable is redefining storytelling by documenting and shaping the digital revolution in a new voice, new formats and cutting-edge technologies to a uniquely dedicated audience of 45 million monthly unique visitors and 25 million social followers. Mashable is a leading global media company that informs,inspires and entertains the digital generation.
How to Use Mashable. Mashable is a news blog focusing on social media and technology news. The site has become well known for providing in-depth social media guides and resources. The site has more than 40 million monthly page views and readers from all over the globe. 2. You can use Mashable via one of many social networks and services by clicking the follow link for the service you want to use and following the onscreen instructions. For example, clicking the follow on Facebook link will allow you to follow Mashable’s Facebook page and view content via your Facebook account.
mashable. Mashable is a term used to describe two or more online applications that work together and/or within each other. This is achieved by means of Application Programming Interfaces (API). Mashable is most often used in the context of social networking applications such as MySpace, Facebook, and YouTub
Mashable was created by Pete Cashmore from his home in Aberdeen, Scotland in July 2005. Time noted Mashable as one of the 25 best blogs in 2009, and has been described as one stop shop for social media. As of March 2013, it has over 3,200,000 Twitter followers and over 1,000,000 fans on Facebook. Mashable Connect is an annual invite-only conference. It was held on 12 May – 14 May 2011, with 300 attendees. Speakers included Scott Belsky, Founder & CEO, Behance, Adam Ostrow, Rohit Bhargava, SVP, Global Strategy & Marketing, Ogilvy.
Mashable is the leading digital media company for the Connected Generation – delivering the news today that everyone else will be talking about tomorrow. We’re your source for digital culture, breaking news, innovation, inspiration and entertainment. 
Mashable. Mashable is a Scottish-American news website, technology and social media blog founded by Pete Cashmore in 2005. The website's primary focus is social media news, but also covers news and developments in mobile, entertainment, online video, business, web development, technology, memes and gadgets.
Mashable (Mashable Inc.) is a digital media website founded by Pete Cashmore in 2005. Mashable Connect is an annual invite-only conference. It was held on 12 May – 14 May 2011, with 300 attendees. Speakers included Scott Belsky, Founder & CEO, Behance, Adam Ostrow, Rohit Bhargava, SVP, Global Strategy & Marketing, Ogilvy.