Keloids. When skin is injured, fibrous tissue (called scar tissue) forms over the wound to repair and protect the injury. In some cases, scar tissue grows excessively, forming smooth, hard growths called keloids. Keloids can be much larger than the original wound, and are most commonly found on the upper chest and shoulders. Keloid scars tend to be larger than the original wound itself. They may take weeks or months to fully develop. While keloid scars may be itchy, they are typically not harmful to your health. You may experience some discomfort or tenderness, or possible irritation from clothing or other forms of friction.
an overgrowth of tissue in a scar at the site of skin injury, particularly a wound or a surgical incision. The amount of tissue growth is in excess of that necessary to repair the wound and is partially caused by an accumulation of collagen at the site. 
Keloids can be considered to be  scars that don't know when to stop.. A keloid, sometimes referred to as a keloid scar, is a tough heaped-up scar that rises quite abruptly above the rest of the skin. It usually has a smooth top and a pink or purple color. Keloids are irregularly shaped and tend to enlarge progressively. Unlike scars, keloids do not regress over time. Sometimes the scar is hypertrophic, or thickened, but confined to the margin of the original wound. Hypertrophic scars tend to be redder and often regress spontaneously (a process which can take one year or more).
(Discuss) Proposed since October 2014. A keloid (/ˈkiːlɔɪd/ ; also keloidal scar) is the formation of a type of scar which, depending on its maturity, is composed mainly of either type III (early) or type I (late) collagen. 
A keloid (say KEE-loyd) is a scar that grows bigger and wider than the original injury. Keloids most commonly grow on the breastbone, shoulder, upper chest and back, earlobes, and face. Keloids do not become cancer. But they can be bothersome or painful enough that you seek treatment. Keloids often grow back after treatment.
Keloids occur from the overgrowth of scar tissue; symptoms will occur at a site of previous skin injury. Symptoms include: 1  area that is flesh-colored, pink or red in color. 2  a lumpy or ridged area of skin. 3  an area that continues to grow larger with scar tissue over time. 4  itchy patch of skin. Keloid scars tend to be larger than the original wound itself. They may take weeks or months to fully develop. While keloid scars may be itchy, they are typically not harmful to your health. You may experience some discomfort or tenderness, or possible irritation from clothing or other forms of friction.
Keloids can form where the skin is damaged, such as by a surgery cut, a piercing, a burn, chickenpox, or acne. Thick tissue grows up and out from the healing area, making the scar bigger than the original injury. For some people, even a scratch can lead to keloids. Keloids most commonly grow on the breastbone, shoulder, upper chest and back, earlobes, and face. Keloids do not become cancer. But they can be bothersome or painful enough that you seek treatment. Keloids often grow back after
These are called hypertrophic scars. Find out more about hypertrophic scars. A keloid scar is an overgrown scar that can spread outside the original area of skin damage, says Hermione Lawson of the British Skin Foundation. Keloid scars are shiny and hairless, they're raised above the surrounding skin, and can feel hard and rubbery.. Keloids affect around 10-15% of all wounds. They can appear anywhere on the body, but usually form on the shoulders, head and neck.
Keloid is an overgrowth of scar tissue that develops around a wound. The cause is not known but it's more common in people who have darker skins. Various treatments are available. People prone to develop keloid should avoid piercings, tattoos and unnecessary surgery. Keloid is an overgrowth of the scar tissue that develops around a wound, usually after the wound has healed. A keloid scar is sometimes confused with a hypertrophic scar. However, keloid usually grows beyond the borders of the original wound whereas in a hypertrophic scar the tissue stays within the wound border. 