Buy-Out The purchase by the trustees of a pension scheme of an insurance policy or bond in the name of a member or other beneficiary following termination of service, retirement, or on winding up of a scheme. The bond is bought in substitution of the member's rights under the pension scheme. 
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. A pension trustee is a person, usually an experienced professional, who handles the investments of a pension fund. Trustees are generally third parties who do not have a personal interest in the pension fund, but are hired as outside executives of the fund. 
Essentially, a pension scheme trustee’s duties are to: hold the trust assets; 1  invest the assets in accordance with the terms of the trust, and prudently; 2  collect the contributions as required by the terms of the trust; 3  pay the benefits in accordance with the terms of the trust. Trustees who are also members of their pension scheme (as the majority of them are) frequently have theoretical conflicts between their personal interests as members and their duties as trustees. The government has therefore given statutory protection to such trustees. But this is less helpful than it may appear.
Under trust law and the Pensions Act 1990, pension scheme trustees must ensure that schemes are run properly and they must protect your rights as a scheme member .In most pension schemes, trustees do not actually carry out the day-to-day running of the scheme. 
Many pension schemes have training at trustee meetings and there is plenty of online training available on the website of the Pensions Regulator, the UK body which oversees work-based pension schemes. This training covers a range of topics, and does not have to be completed in one go. Consider conflicts of interest. Trustees are there to act in the interests of the scheme members. These include those currently earning benefits under the scheme, and also those who have left or retired. If you do this, and put any conflicts of interest to one side, you are unlikely to go wrong.
Getting started. Every pension scheme is different. New trustees should look at the scheme rules and booklet, minutes of recent trustees' meetings, the latest auditor's report and scheme funding documents. If the scheme rules are long, ask if a short summary is available. Consider conflicts of interest. Trustees are there to act in the interests of the scheme members. These include those currently earning benefits under the scheme, and also those who have left or retired. If you do this, and put any conflicts of interest to one side, you are unlikely to go wrong.
To do this effectively, you must be familiar with the scheme’s trust deed and rules (in conjunction with pensions and trusts law) as these contain the rules that govern your scheme. It's important to know what protection you have as a trustee against liability for claims about your actions as a trustee, so check your trust document or speak to your fellow trustees to find out. Look out for: 1  indemnity clauses. 2  exoneration clauses. 3  exemption clauses. 4  references to insurance policies.
The Pensions Act 2004 states the obligations of trustees include: 1  ensuring that a statement of investment principles is prepared and maintained for the scheme, and is reviewed at such intervals, and on such occasions, as may be prescribed and, if necessary, revised. 2  having relevant knowledge and understanding. It's important to know what protection you have as a trustee against liability for claims about your actions as a trustee, so check your trust document or speak to your fellow trustees to find out. Look out for: 1  indemnity clauses. 2  exoneration clauses. 3  exemption clauses. 4  references to insurance policies.
Trustee Information. Under the Pensions Act, trustees have the main responsibility for the administration of funded occupational pension schemes and compliance with the requirements that apply to these schemes. Under the Act, the Pensions Authority has a responsibility to: 1 Salary will increase at 3% per year. 2  Pension will increase at 2% per year in retirement. 3  The State Pension will increase in line with salary increases. 4  Spouse's annuity assumes a 3 year age gap between the Main Life and Spouse.
The trustees of a pension scheme are the people, acting separately from the employer, who hold the assets invested in the scheme for the benefit of the participants. Consider conflicts of interest. Trustees are there to act in the interests of the scheme members. These include those currently earning benefits under the scheme, and also those who have left or retired. If you do this, and put any conflicts of interest to one side, you are unlikely to go wrong.