The flavivirus C protein belongs to the same class of alpha-helical capsid proteins as the hepadnaviruses and retroviruses (31, 38). Similar structural motifs have also been observed in the core proteins of arteriviruses and bacteriophage φ6 (9). Effect of capsid mutations on virus production. To study the effect of mutations in C protein on the viability of YFV, C-terminal truncations, internal deletions, and point mutations in the C-terminal helix were engineered into the full-length infectious cDNA clone of YFV.
Various N-and C-terminal truncations, internal deletions, and point mutations of YFC were analyzed for their ability to package the YFV replicon. Consistent with previous reports on the tick-borne encephalitis virus capsid protein, YFC demonstrates remarkable functional flexibility. Nearly 40 residues of YFC could be removed from the N terminus while the ability to package replicon RNA was retained.
Flavivirus is a genus of viruses in the family Flaviviridae. This genus includes the West Nile virus, dengue virus, tick-borne encephalitis virus, yellow fever virus, and several other viruses which may cause encephalitis. 
Yellow fever, known historically as yellow jack, yellow plague, or bronze john, is an acute viral disease. In most cases, symptoms include fever, chills, loss of appetite, nausea, muscle pains particularly in the back, and headaches. Symptoms typically improve within five days. In some people within a day of improving, the fever comes back, abdominal pain occurs, and liver damage begins causing yellow skin. Yellow fever virus is mainly transmitted through the bite of the yellow fever mosquito Aedes aegypti, but other mosquitoes such as the tiger mosquito (Aedes albopictus) can also serve as a vector for this virus.
Functional requirements of the yellow fever virus capsid protein. Patkar CG, Jones CT, Chang YH, Warrier R, Kuhn RJ. Department of Biological Sciences, Purdue University, 915 W. State Street, West Lafayette, IN 47907-2054, USA. Erratum in J Virol. 2007 Dec;81(24):13944. Although it is known that the flavivirus capsid protein is essential for genome packaging and formation of infectious particles, the minimal requirements of the dimeric capsid protein for virus assembly/disassembly have not been characterized. Consistent with previous reports on the tick-borne encephalitis virus capsid protein, YFC demonstrates remarkable functional flexibility. Nearly 40 residues of YFC could be removed from the N terminus while the ability to package replicon RNA was retained.
The oligomeric state of the C protein is also apparently conserved, since in the cases of DEN2, WNV, KUN, yellow fever virus (YFV), and TBEV, the C protein is dimeric in solution (10, 13, 17, 26). Effect of capsid mutations on virus production. To study the effect of mutations in C protein on the viability of YFV, C-terminal truncations, internal deletions, and point mutations in the C-terminal helix were engineered into the full-length infectious cDNA clone of YFV.
The disease is caused by the yellow fever virus and is spread by the bite of the female mosquito. It infects only humans, other primates, and several species of mosquitoes. In cities, it is spread primarily by mosquitoes of the Aedes aegypti species. The virus is an RNA virus of the genus Flavivirus. Yellow fever virus is mainly transmitted through the bite of the yellow fever mosquito Aedes aegypti, but other mosquitoes such as the tiger mosquito (Aedes albopictus) can also serve as a vector for this virus.
Flaviruses are small, enveloped RNA viruses that use arthropods such as mosquitoes for transmission to their vertebrate hosts, and include Yellow fever virus, West Nile virus, Tick-borne encephalitis virus, Japanese encephalitis virus, and Dengue virus 2 [ PMID: 15378043 ]. 
By use of a trans-packaging system that involved packaging a yellow fever virus (YFV) replicon into pseudo-infectious particles by supplying the YFV structural proteins using a Sindbis virus helper construct, the functional elements within the YFV capsid protein (YFC) were characterized. Effect of capsid mutations on virus production. To study the effect of mutations in C protein on the viability of YFV, C-terminal truncations, internal deletions, and point mutations in the C-terminal helix were engineered into the full-length infectious cDNA clone of YFV.
Mutagenesis of the signal sequence of yellow fever virus prM protein: enhancement of signalase cleavage In vitro is lethal for virus production.. Lee E. , Stocks C.E. , Amberg S.M. , Rice C.M. , Lobigs M. J. Virol. Capsid protein C self-assembles to form an icosahedral capsid about 30 nm in diameter. The capsid encapsulates the genomic RNA (By similarity).By similarity. prM acts as a chaperone for envelope protein E during intracellular virion assembly by masking and inactivating envelope protein E fusion peptide.