Possum Kingdom Lake regularly holds bowfishing tournaments and is a premier bowfishing destination in North Texas. Medina Lake, Lake Amistad, Falcon are among some South Texas favorites for bowfishing, especially when it comes to trophy alligator gar. One of my closest friends and bowfishing mentors, Marty McIntyre, is a professional bowfishing guide and owner of GARQUEST Bowfishing Adventures (www.garquest.com). Marty’s logo is simple, “Saving Game Fish, One Trash Fish at a Time”.
Thank you for choosing Extreme Bowfishing guide service! We would love to take you bowfishing for some of the largest fish known to exist in fresh water, the alligator gar! We have been bowfishing for 26 years and take pride in making sure that you have the Texas BowFishing Trip of a liftime!
Come and try one of the most action packed sports out there. Come and try one of TEXAS Best BOWFISHING GUIDES !We will put you on the fish !But beware BOWFISHING can be very ADDICTIVE ! Bowfishing Addiction also offers Trophy Alligator Gar trips. We will offer bowfishing and rod and reel trips for our clients.If you don't shoot a bow no problem. Alligator Gar fishing on rod & reel is an awesome experience. Catch a giant Gator Gar on rod and reel ! Call for pricing on these trips.
I have had many first as a bow fishing / Alligator gar fishing guide. I was the first type of guide to turn in record fish and proudly have had WORLD RECORDS, STATE RECORDS and many WATERBODY RECORDS that belong to my clients from all around the globe. I caught my first Alligator Gar about 3 miles from my parent’s home at Sims Bayou in Houston Texas. I caught my first Alligator Gar when I was 11 years old on a 6ft long rake handle, 125lb Dacron line and a 2ft steel leader with a 6 /o hook (SERIOUSLY).
We have been bowfishing for 26 years and take pride in making sure that you have the Texas Bowfishing trip of a lifetime! Our bow fishing guides deliver more shot opportunities on big Gar than any other guide service in the state! 
TARGET RICH ENVIRONMENTS Texas is the best place to chase big Alligator Gar. They are found in almost all south Texas bodies of water. Great bowfishing is available year round.I bowfish lakes and rivers all over Texas and choose the best location for you based on the time of the year and current conditions. My name is Shawn Benline of Bowfish Texas Adventures. I have been bowfishing since 1983...33 years of experience that has included many different bodies of water. I Guide for big Alligator Gar, Carp and Buffalo is what I truly have a passion for.
Welcome to GoBowfishing.com! Thank you for visiting the Texas Bowfishing Guides website. We offer bowfishing trips in the Dallas/Ft. Worth area. We are ready to serve our clients on any lake or river to shoot the fish you want. Most of the time, we fish areas such as, Lavon, Cedar Creek, Ray Hubbard, Grapevine, and Trinity River. This fish was taken by Texas Bowfishing Guides. This is the new Official Texas state record grass carp. It was shot on Sunday, October 2nd at Lake Ray Hubbard. Read the Dallas morning news article on this record-breaking carp
The Best Bowfishing in Texas ABOUT ME. Texas bowfishing guide for Alligator Gar, Buffalo, Carp, and Tilapia is what I love to do, and Bowfish Texas Adventures can to guide you on a bowfishing trip you won't forget. My name is Shawn Benline of Bowfish Texas Adventures. I have been bowfishing since 1983...33 years of experience that has included many different bodies of water. I Guide for big Alligator Gar, Carp and Buffalo is what I truly have a passion for.
The Brazos River is one of Marty’s favorite spots for bowfishing for alligator gar close to home since it runs through North Central Texas. Lake Ray Hubbard, Ray Roberts Lake, Lake Grandbury, Lake Grapevine, Lake Worth, and Possum Kingdom Lake rank among some of the best bowfishing lakes for North Texas. One of my closest friends and bowfishing mentors, Marty McIntyre, is a professional bowfishing guide and owner of GARQUEST Bowfishing Adventures (www.garquest.com). Marty’s logo is simple, “Saving Game Fish, One Trash Fish at a Time”.