Corrosion is a natural process, which converts refined metal to their more stable oxide. It is the gradual destruction of materials (usually metals) by chemical reaction with their environment. In the most common use of the word, this means electrochemical oxidation of metal in reaction with an oxidant such as oxygen. Because corrosion is a diffusion-controlled process, it occurs on exposed surfaces. As a result, methods to reduce the activity of the exposed surface, such as passivation and chromate conversion, can increase a material's corrosion resistance.
CHROMIUM. Chromium is a highly reactive element and accounts for the “passive” nature of all stainless steels. The resistance to the chemical effects of corrosion and the typical “rusting” (oxidation) that occurs with unprotected carbon steel, is the direct result of the presence of chromium. There are over 150 different stainless steels with unique alloying element combinations. These alloying additions improved corrosion resistance in different service environments and determine strength levels, formability, machinability and other desirable characteristics.
The best corrosion resistant steels in the world find their way into countless applications, from defense to aerospace, turbines and more. Acidic degradation can be easily staved off by the addition of chromium, which not only strengthens the alloy, but creates a passive oxide layer that essentially seals in the metal. These days, corrosion-resistant metals come in any number of forms. You can get different temperances for heat, corrosion, strength and more, including widely varying hardness and weight. It is all a matter of which metals you add and what kind of treatments are used once the alloy has been melted.
Relatively abundant metal that is resistant to corrosion; it is used especially in the manufacture of alloys, tires, paint, ointments and perfume. Reddish-brown metal that is a very good conductor of heat and electricity; it is used mainly in the manufacture of electric wire and alloys (brass, bronze). Hard metal that resists corrosion; it is used in the manufacture of coins and cutlery, and as a protective coating for other metals (iron, copper). Metal that is used especially as a protective covering for steel, in rechargeable batteries and in nuclear reactors (control rods). Precious metal that is the best conductor of heat and electricity; it is used especially in the manufacture of mirrors, jewelry and coins.
In addition to iron, carbon, and chromium, modern stainless steel may also contain other elements, such as nickel, niobium, molybdenum, and titanium. Nickel, molybdenum, niobium, and chromium enhance the corrosion resistance of stainless steel. 
Actually aluminum corrodes extremely rapidly, however  unlike many other metals the corrosion products form a stable hard  transparent protective layer preventing further co … rrosion. The  corrosion products of most other metals are unstable and flake or  wash off exposing fresh metal to corrosion. In some metals (e.g.  iron) the corrosion products are actually autocatalytic, causing  further corrosion themselves. There are also alloys which are  very corrosion resistant, such as stainless … steel. Naturally  occurring corrosion resistant metals include aluminum, gold, and  titanium, with gold and titanium being the most corrosion  resistant. Answered.
Stainless Steel Corrosion. The main reason for the existence of the stainless steels is their resistance to corrosion. Chromium is the main alloying element, and the steel should contain at least 11 %. Chromium is a reactive element, but it and its alloys passivate and exhibit excellent resistance to many environments. Higher Cr contents may be necessary for to improve the corrosion resistance of stainless steels in more aggressive media. Nitrogen is often added in modern stainless steels (especially in duplex grades or in highly alloyed austenitics); this element provides high mechanical properties, better resistance to pitting initiation and more generally improves the corrosion resistance thanks to a better microstructural stability.