In practice, extraneous variables are not merely ``possible causes''; they are ``plausible causes.'' It is plausible to believe that a teacher's view of a student influences her math scores; it is unlikely that the identity of the physician who delivered the baby who became the student influences her math scores. In particular, a noise variable might be correlated with the independent variable, in which case, the effects of the two variables are confounded. Suppose gender is the independent variable and s, the number of siblings, is the noise variable.
A confounding variable is an extraneous variable that is related to your independent variable and might affect your dependent variable. In an ideal study, there will be no confounding variables. 
So if you take the definition of ``extraneous variable'' literally (i.e., extraneous variables are other possible causes) then the identity of the physician who delivered Abigail is an extraneous variable, and must be controlled in an experiment. In particular, a noise variable might be correlated with the independent variable, in which case, the effects of the two variables are confounded. Suppose gender is the independent variable and s, the number of siblings, is the noise variable.
Extraneous Variables are undesirable variables that influence the relationship between the variables that an experimenter is examining. Another way to think of this, is that these are variables the influence the outcome of an experiment, though they are not the variables that are actually of interest. These variables are undesirable because they add error to an experiment. A major goal in research design is to decrease or control the influence of extraneous variables as much as possible.
An extraneous variable is a factor that varies, but has no impact on the outcome. A good example might be if you are trying to predict the outcome of an election, and some crazy person mentions the part about Venus being behind the Sun on the day of the election. If you are looking for the answer to Xsquared + 1 = 26, then X can be either a +5 or a -5 so it is a variable. An extraneous variable would be a variable that does not really affect the answer or the experiment (as in 'an irrelevant variable'). Source(s): Me.
independent variable in a mathematical equation or relationship between two or more variables, any variable whose value determines that of others; it represents the treatment or experimental variable that is manipulated by the researcher to create an effect on the dependent variable. (1) Any attribute, phenomenon or event that can have different qualitative or quantitative values. Typically, a form of metadata goes with the variable, there is a variable definition that describes what is varying and there is a value for the variable.
Extraneous and confounding variables. Any variable that you are not intentionally studying in your dissertation is an extraneous variable that could threaten the internal validity of your results [see the article: Internal validity ]. In this article, we (a) explain what extraneous variables are, providing some examples, (b) highlight when extraneous variables become confounding variables, as well as how extraneous and confounding variables can be a threat to internal validity; and (c) explain how to deal with extraneous variables in your research.
Best Answer: Extraneous Variables are undesirable variables that influence the relationship between the variables that an experimenter is examining. Another way to think of this, is that these are variables the influence the outcome of an experiment, though they are not the variables that are actually of interest. If you are looking for the answer to Xsquared + 1 = 26, then X can be either a +5 or a -5 so it is a variable. An extraneous variable would be a variable that does not really affect the answer or the experiment (as in 'an irrelevant variable'). Source(s): Me.
is a variable which inadvertantly effects the course of an experiment, specifically the dependent variable, normally without the knowledge of the researchers, but nonetheless potentially affecting the results. Experiments are designed to reduce the effect on extraneous variables. 
In this function, y is the dependent variable and x is the independent variable. Variable used in an experiment or modelling can be divided into three types:  dependent variable ,  independent variable , or other. The dependent variable represents the output or effect, or is tested to see if it is the effect. The independent variable represents the input or cause, or is tested to see if it is the cause. Other variables may also be observed for various reasons.