Suzanne. 1. Suzanne is a common female given name that was particularly popular in the United States in the 1950s and 1960s. It remained in the top 200 most popular names in the United States between 1930 and the late 1980s. Suzanne was originally the French form of Susan or Susanna, but it has also been regularly used in English speaking countries since before the start of the 20th century. The name is from the Hebrew Shoshana, meaning lily. It may also be spelled Susanne, and common diminutives are Sue and Suzy. 2
In American the meaning of the name Suzanne is: Graceful lily. French Meaning: The name Suzanne is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Suzanne is: Lily.Susannah. In the apocryphal Book of Tobit Susannah courageously defended herself against wrongful accusation. White lilies grew in the Biblical city of Susa in Persia. German Meaning: The name Suzanne is a German baby name
Blessed with two Z's in my name. I have only met one other Suzanne and her middle name was also Elizabeth, though she was well into her 60's. I also loathe the nickname Sue, Susan, Suzzan, Suzzanne, Suzannie, Suh-zann. I also get called Susan and people often misspell my name. I was the only Suzanne in school from k-12 and the few Suzannes I have met always look as surprised as I do. My middle name is Marie and the three other Suzannes had Ann as a middle name. I always liked the fact I had a 'Z'
Meaning & History. From σουσαννα (Sousanna) , the Greek form of the Hebrew name שׁוֹשַׁנָּה (Shoshannah) . This was derived from the Hebrew word שׁוֹשָׁן (shoshan) meaning lily (in modern Hebrew this also means rose), perhaps ultimately from Egyptian sšn lotus. In the Old Testament Apocrypha this is the name of a woman falsely accused of adultery.
Suzanne is a common female given name that was particularly popular in the United States in the 1950s and 1960s. It remained in the top 200 most popular names in the United States between 1930 and the late 1980s. Form of the Hebrew name שׁוֹשַׁנָּה (Shoshannah). This was derived from the Hebrew word שׁוֹשָׁן (shoshan) meaning lily (in modern Hebrew this also means rose). However, it has also been regularly used in English speaking countries since before the start of the 20th century.
However, the Hebrew root for the name for the lily, שושן, is derived from the root שוש or ששנ, meaning to be joyful, bright, or cheerful, which is the basis for the word and name ששון Sasson, meaning joy of life*. The Persian name for lily is سوسن sousan, susan. 
Suzanne /su-z-anne/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is of French and Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Suzanne is  lily, rose. Variant of Susan. Ballerina Suzanne Farrell; actresses Suzanne Pleshette, Suzanne Sommers. Kreatif forms: Sazanne, Sizanne, Suzanle. Suzanne is a very popular first name for females (#153 out of 4276, Top 4%) but a unique surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Suzanne for girls.
I am also an Suzanne born in 1961 in the Southwest of French descent, so my name was chosen based on my heritage. I was given no middle name because my Dad thought that long first names and short last names or vice versa; were how names should be and Suzanne was too long. I also get called Susan and people often misspell my name. I was the only Suzanne in school from k-12 and the few Suzannes I have met always look as surprised as I do. My middle name is Marie and the three other Suzannes had Ann as a middle name. I always liked the fact I had a 'Z' in my name.
Incoming search terms: Suzanne in Bible, suzanne name meaning, meaning of suzanne, origin of suzanne name, suzanne meaning of name. 