English Meaning: The name Lorette is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Lorette is: or Lora referring to the laurel tree or sweet bay tree symbolic of honor and victory. SoulUrge Number: 7. People with this name have a deep inner need for quiet, and a desire to understand and analyze the world they live in, and to learn the deeper truths. People with this name are excited by change, adventure, and excitement. They are dynamic, visionary and versatile, able to make constructive use of freedom.
Lorette is a commune in the Loire department in central France, in the Gier valley. The region was developed in the 19th century for coal mining. In 1830 the Jackson brothers (Freres Frères) jackson built a steel works At assailly in what is now the north Of. lorette
A word of advice; don't ever, ever move to Lorette, unless you need a location that is quiet, yet close enough to the city. Citizen of Lorette #1: Fuck, man, I wanna go do something fun.. Citizen of Lorette #2: We live in goddamn Lorette, and neither of us have our driver's license yet. Lorette. A small village in Manitoba, Canada. Still exists for the sole purpose of being close enough to Winnipeg, but far enough away to not be part of the murder capital of the country.
Lorette is a somewhat popular first name for women (#3367 out of 4276, Top 79%) and an even more popular last name for both adults and children (#49159 out of 150436, Top 33%). (2000 U.S. Census). Laura (#318 a year ago) , Lorie, Lori, Lorine, Lorna, Lorrie, Lorri, Loretta, Lorene, Laurette, Lauretta, Lollie, Lora, Lorena, Loren and Lorenza are the popular varying forms of Lorette (not ranked) .
Lorette /lor-ette/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls is of Latin and Italian derivation, and the meaning of Lorette is the bay, or laurel plant. Lorette is an alternate form of Laura (Latin). Laura (#318 a year ago) , Lorie, Lori, Lorine, Lorna, Lorrie, Lorri, Loretta, Lorene, Laurette, Lauretta, Lollie, Lora, Lorena, Loren and Lorenza are the popular varying forms of Lorette (not ranked) .
Lorette is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 7 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Lo-rette. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Lorette Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Lorette has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Lorette to other names. English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland.
Origin of LORETTE. French, from Notre Dame de Lorette, section of Paris. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged
Geography [edit]. Lorette lies in the valley of the Gier, a coal mining region, on the south bank of the Giers just east of La Grand-Croix. The region was developed in the 19th century for coal mining. In 1830 the Jackson brothers (Freres Frères) jackson built a steel works At assailly in what is now the north Of. lorette