Oxygen Concentrators are often referred to as oxygen machines, oxygen generators, oxygen compressors or O2 concentrators. Regardless of the name, they provide a cost-effective way for oxygen therapy patients to supplement their oxygen needs without the need of bulkly, heavy oxygen tanks. Only a few portable oxygen concentrators can provide continuous flow and these oxygen machines are slightly larger than the carry type travel concentrators that accompany the patient in a backpack or handbag. The continuous flow portable concentrators usually have built-on wheels or a cart for easy transport.
Portable Oxygen Concentrators is one of the largest retailers of Portable Oxygen Concentrators in the country. They feature a salesroom, rental center and repair center. They are located in Denver, CO and ship anywhere in the US and many places outside the country. We believe that when purchasing in a investment like the Lifechoice Concentrator, it is extremely important to purchase from a company that has a solid track history, excellent customer service and is exceptionally knowledge about Inova Labs company, the Lifechoice Concentrator and POCs and Oxygen Therapy.
Portable Oxygen Concentrators. As the name suggests, these oxygen concentrators are portable; with lightweight and easy-to-use designs. Our selection of portable oxygen concentrators can be powered by AC (home), DC (vehicle) or battery power. These portable oxygen concentrators weight between 8 and 20 pounds and feature handles, a carrying case or shoulder straps. These oxygen concentrators are truly portable, with many approved for air travel
All of our used oxygen machines come with a 1 year warranty and free shipping. Refurbished Oxygen concentrators are certified to meet or exceed manufacturer specifications. 
“When you breath easier, we breath easier.”. Oxygen Concentrator Store from American Medical Sales and Repair has over 14 years of oxygen therapy experience and we offer the highest quality brands of portable oxygen concentrators, home oxygen concentrators and solutions for sleep therapy. We recognize that price is an important factor in purchasing an oxygen concentrator; so we pass on our savings from buying in bulk to our customers. We also believe, however, that making sure our customers have the best unit for their lifestyle is more important than price.
There are two types of oxygen concentrators: a Portable Oxygen Concentrator and a Stationary Oxygen Concentrator. A stationary or home oxygen concentrator usually features built-in wheels to move from room to room and is powered by AC current (plugging it into the wall). Only a few portable oxygen concentrators can provide continuous flow and these oxygen machines are slightly larger than the carry type travel concentrators that accompany the patient in a backpack or handbag. The continuous flow portable concentrators usually have built-on wheels or a cart for easy transport.
To buy an oxygen concentrator from us, just select your portable or home oxygen concentrator online and use our secure checkout to complete your purchase. Or, you may call one of our experienced product experts at 1-800-850-0335 to help you select the perfect unit for you today! Our selection of portable oxygen concentrators can be powered by AC (home), DC (vehicle) or battery power. These portable oxygen concentrators weight between 8 and 20 pounds and feature handles, a carrying case or shoulder straps.
All home oxygen concentrators provide continuous flow oxygen. Only a few portable oxygen concentrators can provide continuous flow and these oxygen machines are slightly larger than the carry type travel concentrators that accompany the patient in a backpack or handbag. The continuous flow portable concentrators usually have built-on wheels or a cart for easy transport.
1. If you’re like most, you may be wondering how to purchase the Inogen One portable oxygen concentrator for your oxygen therapy needs. Directly purchasing is the quickest and easiest way to get an Inogen One. You can buy an oxygen concentrator for sale now directly from our website by clicking the link below, or call us at 1-800-678-5572 to talk to one of our oxygen specialists. Inogen is here for you every step of the way. The Inogen One is covered by Medicare, so if your physician has prescribed oxygen therapy and you are eligible for Medicare coverage, you may qualify to get the Inogen One portable oxygen concentrator you need for little to no additional cost.*.
A portable oxygen concentrator is a smaller, ligthweight oxygen concentrator that runs off of a battery rather than just AC current. Portable concentrators can also operate from AC current and in-fact, they charge their batteries from household AC current. Only a few portable oxygen concentrators can provide continuous flow and these oxygen machines are slightly larger than the carry type travel concentrators that accompany the patient in a backpack or handbag. The continuous flow portable concentrators usually have built-on wheels or a cart for easy transport.