1 Plant okra in fertile, well-drained soil in full light about ½ to 1 inch deep and 12 to 18 inches apart. 2  You can soak the seeds overnight in tepid water to help speed up germination. 3  If you are planting okra transplants, be sure to space them 1 to 2 feet apart to give them ample room to grow. 1 You can soak the seeds overnight in tepid water to help speed up germination. 2  If you are planting okra transplants, be sure to space them 1 to 2 feet apart to give them ample room to grow. 3  Okra plants are tall, so be sure to space out the rows 3 to 4 feet apart.
Temperatures for Germination. Okra sprouts best in warm soil. Plant it in the spring or early summer when the soil temperature has reached at least 70 degrees F and the daytime temperatures are reaching 75 to 90 degrees. Okra seeds do not sprout in soil temperatures below 65 degrees. 
I added about a shot's worth of almond milk. Then I put in the okra and topped it with some chopped tomatos. When it didn't come up to pressure I added about 1/4 cup of water. I cooked at pressure for 2 1/2 minutes. I ended up with slimey glop. I stirred in a drained can of beans and stirred in a bit of curry powder. 
If you seeded okra into soil that was at least 60 degrees, it should sprout before it rots if it was viable seed. However, seed sown in 60 degree soil can take up to 3 or 3 and 1/2 weeks to sprout. If you seed okra into hot soil (between about 70 and 95 degrees), it normally will sprout in 6 to 10 days. My best guess is that soil temps here in southern OK have fluctated between the mid-60s to mid-70s for the last two weeks, so your okra seed ought to be sprouting in the next week or so if it was viable seed.
Once you make a cut, another okra pod will emerge from the same spot. Keep harvesting the okra throughout the summer until the growing season slows and the plants stop producing new pods. 1  Harvest the pods when they are 2 to 3 inches (5.1 to 7.6 cm) long. 2  Harvest the okra every other day, and every day during the peak of the season, to encourage fast regrowth.
1 You can also start okra directly in your garden 3 to 4 weeks before the last spring frost date as long as you cover the plants with a cold frame or grow tunnel until the weather warms up. Make sure that the covering is 2 to 3 feet tall so that the plants have room to grow. 1 You can soak the seeds overnight in tepid water to help speed up germination. 2  If you are planting okra transplants, be sure to space them 1 to 2 feet apart to give them ample room to grow. 3  Okra plants are tall, so be sure to space out the rows 3 to 4 feet apart.
1 If you do not start your okra plants early, wait until there is stable warm weather. 2  You can plant okra in the garden when the soil has warmed to 65° to 70°F. 3  Plant okra in fertile, well-drained soil in full light about ½ to 1 inch deep and 12 to 18 inches apart. 1 You can soak the seeds overnight in tepid water to help speed up germination. 2  If you are planting okra transplants, be sure to space them 1 to 2 feet apart to give them ample room to grow. 3  Okra plants are tall, so be sure to space out the rows 3 to 4 feet apart.
Wait until the soil has warmed thoroughly before you add mulch. Step6Start picking okra when the pods are 2 to 3 inches long and still soft-usually about four days after the flowers fade. If you wait much longer, the pods will turn fibrous and inedible. Tips & Warnings Okra's stunning foliage and bell-like yellow flowers with red centers make it a natural for an ornamental garden. Some people develop a rash from okra leaves, so you may want to wear long sleeves and gloves at harvesttime. Bees and other insects cross-pollinate okra with abandon. If you want to save seeds that will produce what you expect to get, stick to one. alicias7768 · 7 years ago.
1 You can plant okra in the garden when the soil has warmed to 65° to 70°F. 2  Plant okra in fertile, well-drained soil in full light about ½ to 1 inch deep and 12 to 18 inches apart. 3  You can soak the seeds overnight in tepid water to help speed up germination. 1 You can soak the seeds overnight in tepid water to help speed up germination. 2  If you are planting okra transplants, be sure to space them 1 to 2 feet apart to give them ample room to grow. 3  Okra plants are tall, so be sure to space out the rows 3 to 4 feet apart.
Cut and come back. About 8 weeks after planting the okra, the pods will start to grow. Once you see the first okra pods emerge and mature, you can start regularly harvesting them. Use a scissors or a hand pruner to cut the okra pods just above their caps, where their thick stems meet the branches of the plant. Keep harvesting the okra throughout the summer until the growing season slows and the plants stop producing new pods. 1  Harvest the pods when they are 2 to 3 inches (5.1 to 7.6 cm) long. 2  Harvest the okra every other day, and every day during the peak of the season, to encourage fast regrowth.