Corneal Topographer. Corneal Topography also referred to as Photokeratoscopy and Videokeratoscopy, is a technique that is used to map the curved surface of the Cornea. This can help measure the quality of vision as well as assist in LASIK surgery and the fitting of contact lenses. This procedure is non-invasive and painless to the patient. 
A development of keratoscopy, corneal topography extends the measurement range from the four points a few millimeters apart that is offered by keratometry to a grid of thousands of points covering the entire cornea. The procedure is carried out in seconds and is completely painless. Since the cornea is normally responsible for some 70% of the eye's refractive power, its topography is of critical importance in determining the quality of vision and corneal health.
Corneal Topography. Corneal topography, also known as photokeratoscopy or videokeratography, is a non-invasive medical imaging technique for mapping the surface curvature of the cornea, the outer structure of the eye. 
In keratoconus cornea topography is a particularly important feature that must be mapped and analyzed as part of the process of diagnosis. Most current topography systems scan the surface of the eye at standard points to develop a map that is used to look for corneal problems such as keratoconus. 
Corneal topography: Also known as videokeratography or corneal mapping, corneal topography is a method of computer-assisted examination of the cornea, the clear front portion of the eye that transmits and focuses light into the eye. The test results in the generation of a topographical map of the cornea. Corneal topography is used to identify the curvature of the cornea and to identify distortions (such as keratoconus) or scarring of the cornea. It is also used as an aid in fitting contact lenses and in the evaluation of patients undergoing LASIK and other surgeries
Corneal topography. Corneal topography is a process for mapping the surface curvature of the cornea, similar to making a contour map of land. The purpose of corneal topography is to produce a detailed description of the shape and power of the cornea. Using computerized imaging technology, the 3-dimensional map produced by the corneal topographer aids our ophthalmologist in the diagnosis, monitoring, and treatment of various visual conditions.
Also known as videokeratography, corneal topography is a process for mapping the surface curvature of the cornea, similar to making a contour map of land. The cornea is a clear membrane that covers the front of the eye (See Anatomy of the Eye) and is responsible for about 70 percent of the eye's focusing power. Corneal topography is used in the diagnosis and management of various corneal curvature abnormalities and diseases such as: 1  Keratoconus, a degenerative condition that causes a thinning of the cornea. 2  Corneal transplants. 3  Corneal scars or opacities. 4  Corneal deformities. 5  Fitting contact lenses.
Corneal topography, also known as photokeratoscopy or videokeratography, is a non-invasive medical imaging technique for mapping the surface curvature of the cornea, the outer structure of the eye. Since the cornea is normally responsible for some 70% of the eye's refractive power, its topography is of critical importance in determining the quality of vision and corneal health.
At Global Contact Lens Specialists the procedure is known as corneal topography though some may refer to it as photokeratoscopy or videokeratography. It is a process that has been around for more than a century and is used to provide both qualitative and quantitative evaluations on the outer surface of the cornea. 