mean corpuscular he·mo·glo·bin con·cen·tra·tion (MCHC), Hgb/Hct; the average hemoglobin concentration in a given volume of packed red blood cells, calculated from the hemoglobin therein and the hematocrit, in erythrocyte indices. concentration. 1. increase in strength by evaporation. 2. the ratio of the mass or volume of a solute to the mass or volume of the solution or solvent. 3. intense mental focus. hydrogen ion concentration see hydrogen ion
mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (MCHC), an estimation of the concentration of hemoglobin in grams per 100 mL of packed red blood cells, derived from the ratio of the hemoglobin to the hematocrit. concentration. 1. increase in strength by evaporation. 2. the ratio of the mass or volume of a solute to the mass or volume of the solution or solvent. 3. intense mental focus. hydrogen ion concentration see hydrogen ion
1 mean corpuscular hemoglobin (MCH). 2  mean corpuscular hemoglobin (MCH). 3  Mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration. 4  Mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration. 5  Mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration. 1 Mean Corpuscular Erythrocyte Volume. 2  mean corpuscular haemoglobin. 3  Mean corpuscular hemoglobin. 4  mean corpuscular hemoglobin (MCH). 5  mean corpuscular hemoglobin (MCH). 6  mean corpuscular hemoglobin (MCH). 7  mean corpuscular hemoglobin (MCH). 8
The reference ranges for mean corpuscular hemoglobin and mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration are as follows: MCH: 27-33 picograms (pg)/cell in adults. MCHC: 33-36 g/dL in adults. Normal values may vary depending on the individual laboratory. 
What Abnormal Results Mean. If the RBC is low or any of the RBC indices are abnormal, some form of anemia is indicated. If the values are high, it is a condition called polycythemia. It is necessary to consider all these values to get the right diagnosis. What the MCH Means. MCH measures the average amount of hemoglobin in a red blood cell. It is a calculation based on two other values measured in the CBC: 1  the hemoglobin value (Hgb), which measures the amount of hemoglobin in the blood.
Not to be confused with mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration, although they are predictably correlated in healthy states. The mean corpuscular hemoglobin (MCH) , or mean cell hemoglobin (MCH), is the average mass of hemoglobin per red blood cell in a sample of blood. 
High hemoglobin count may occur because: 1  Your red blood cell production increases to compensate for chronically low blood oxygen levels due to poor heart or lung function. 2  You have a bone marrow dysfunction that results in increased production of red blood cells. 
Definition. A high hemoglobin count indicates an above-average concentration of the oxygen-carrying protein hemoglobin in your blood. Hemoglobin (Hg or Hgb) is the main component of red blood cells. Hemoglobin count-also referred to as hemoglobin level-indicates your blood's oxygen-carrying capacity. 
mean corpuscular hemoglobin (MCH), an estimate of the amount of hemoglobin in an average erythrocyte, derived from the ratio between the amount of hemoglobin and the number of erythrocytes present. The normal value of MCH is between 28 and 32 picograms of hemoglobin per red blood cell. mean corpuscular he·mo·glo·bin (MCH), the hemoglobin content of the average red blood cell(RBC), calculated from the hemoglobin therein and the RBC count, in RBC indices.