Knowledge center. Avocados are a creamy, buttery fruit grown in warm climates and often enjoyed in Mexican and South American cuisine. Also known as an alligator pear or butter fruit, the versatile avocado is the only fruit that provides a substantial amount of monounsaturated fat (the healthy kind). Avocados are a naturally nutrient-dense food and contain nearly 20 vitamins and minerals.
The Skinny on the Fat and Calories. Avocados are high in fat. But it's monounsaturated fat, which is a good fat that helps lower bad cholesterol, as long as you eat them in moderation. Avocados have a lot of calories. The recommended serving size is smaller than you’d expect: 1/5 of a medium avocado (or 1 ounce) is 50 calories. Store avocados at room temperature, keeping in mind that they can take 4 to 5 days to ripen. To speed up the ripening process, put them in a paper bag along with an apple or banana. When the outside skins are black or dark purple and yield to gentle pressure, they’re ready to eat or refrigerate.
Why Avocados Have Good Fat to Consume. Avocados are one of the most nutritious fruits you can select for a healthy diet. The fruit is also one of the most versatile. You can eat it fresh or use it as a salad ingredient or sandwich filling. You can also make a dip, smoothie, juice or puree from avocado. Fat Content of Avocados. A serving of 170 grams contains 285 calories. Fats account for about 25 grams. Most of these are monounsaturated fats, which are considered as healthy fats. They account for about 63 percent of the total fat content.
By Ali Hale. Some people, in their attempts to be health-conscious, avoid avocados due to the relatively high fat and calorie content of these fruits (138 calories and 14.1g fat in half a medium-sized avocado). Yet avocados are one of the best foods you can eat, packed with nutrients and heart-healthy compounds. Avocados taste great. The last reason is simple— avocados are a healthy way to boost the flavour and texture of your meals. Toss chopped avocado on a salad or bowl of soup, serve guacamole as an appetizer or condiment, or try one of these healthy avocado recipes to get more healthy avocado into your diet.
Avocado is known as Mother Nature’s butter. Yes, Avocado contains 70% of its calories in fat and No, avocado is not fattening. If you are surprised by this statement, it’s because of a misconception people have about fat consumption and weight gain. Dietary “Fat” does not make you fat. It’s just a myth like most other dietary myths. Here are few reasons why avocados aid in losing weight. 1  Avocados are rich in monounsaturated fats which are very healthy and promote the reduction in the cholesterol levels and LDL (the bad cholesterol). 2  Natural fats do not induce weight gain the way “unnatural” fats do. 3  Avocados are rich in necessary natural fats.
1 Avocados are rich in monounsaturated fats which are very healthy and promote the reduction in the cholesterol levels and LDL (the bad cholesterol). 2  Natural fats do not induce weight gain the way “unnatural” fats do. 3  Avocados are rich in necessary natural fats. Here are few reasons why avocados aid in losing weight. 1  Avocados are rich in monounsaturated fats which are very healthy and promote the reduction in the cholesterol levels and LDL (the bad cholesterol). 2  Natural fats do not induce weight gain the way “unnatural” fats do. 3  Avocados are rich in necessary natural fats.
Facts on the Avocado. One cup of cubed avocados contains approximately 240 calories, (150 g), and 1 cup of pureed avocado contains 368 calories, (230 g). Over 90 percent of the calories come from fat, but over 80 percent of those fats are monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats, which are actually good for you. 
Dear Guacamole, No need to pause that chip in midair, or order sushi sans avocado! Avocados are indeed high in fat, but they're high in monounsaturated fat, the good fat, the kind of fat that may actually help lower blood cholesterol levels. And as you rightly said, avocados contain no cholesterol — no plant foods do. 
Although they are fruits, avocados have a high fat content of between 71 to 88% of their total calories—about 20 times the average for other fruits. A typical avocado contains 30 grams of fat, but 20 of these fat grams are health-promoting monounsaturated fats, especially oleic acid. 