X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job. It does not include equity (stock) compensation, cash value of retirement benefits, or the value of other non-cash benefits (e.g. healthcare). Total Pay (?XTotal Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job.
The average wage for a Paraeducator (K-12) is $12.37 per hour. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 20 years' experience in this field. Total Pay (?XTotal Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job.
Job Description for Paraeducator (K-12). 1  Assist the teacher in the development and implementation of the Individual Education Plan (IEP). 2  Assist the teacher with the designing of instruction and follow through. 3  Evaluate student progress on work assignments and shares information with teacher. Total Pay (?XTotal Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job.
An Education Paraprofessional earns an average wage of $11.71 per hour. A skill in Special Education is associated with high pay for this job. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 20 years' experience in this field. They can include a variety of positions, such as teacher aides, special education assistants, and early childhood assistants. They commonly work in several settings, including day care centers, preschools, elementary schools, and education centers.
Openings as of 10/20/2015 Paraprofessionals 15-442 Kindergarten/Recess Para JobID: 4307 Position Type: Email To A Friend Print Version Closing Date: 10... 6 hours ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Wayzata Public Schools jobs in Wayzata, MN-Wayzata jobs. 2  Salary Search: Kindergarten Recess Para salaries in Wayzata, MN. 
Private schools, some point out, suffer higher teacher turnover among early-career teachers: 24 percent of private-school teachers are in their first three years of teaching, compared with 13 percent of public-school teachers. And on their way out the door, two-thirds cite low salary as a reason for leaving. Private school teachers make way less than public school teachers. Average salaries are nearly $50,000 for public, and barely $36,000 for private. That’s not just a gap. It’s a chasm. Teacher compensation has become a key part of the public debate over American schools
Miscellaneous Financial. Paraprofessionals who are certified as a teacher or have 5 or more years of service may be requested to substitute for the teacher in their own classrooms, and will receive $6.00 per hour in addition to their regular pay. Paras have a new Bachelor’s Salary Lane added on 9/1/07. Paraprofessionals shall have a duty free lunch of at least thirty minutes scheduled at a reasonable time as the schedule for the school permits. In addition, paraprofessionals now get a 10 minute break during the day. Paraprofessionals are eligible for job-sharing.