Secretion of anterior pituitary hormones is driven by the influence of releasing-or release-inhibiting hormones (factors) that are synthesized in parvocellular neurons of the supraoptic, paraventricular, arcuate and periventricular hypothalamic nuclei. Control of release in this system is via feedback of releasing-hormones, anterior pituitary hormones, and peripheral endocrine hormones onto hypothalamic and pituitary cells in a series of feedback loops. This system thus represents a hormone-and neural-evoked and hormone-output reflex.
Hormones of the Hypothalamus. The hypothalamus is highly involved in pituitary gland function. When it receives a signal from the nervous system, the hypothalamus secretes substances known as neurohormones that start and stop the secretion of pituitary hormones.
Hypothalamus: The area of the brain that secretes substances that influence pituitary and other gland function and is involved in the control of body temperature, hunger, thirst, and other processes that regulate body equilibrium. 
hormone. a chemical transmitter substance produced by cells of the body and transported by the bloodstream to the cells and organs on which it has a specific regulatory effect. adj., adj hormo´nal. Hormones act as chemical messengers to body organs, stimulating certain life processes and retarding others. anterior pituitary hormone any of the protein or polypeptide hormones secreted by the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland, including growth hormone, thyrotropin, prolactin, follicle-stimulating hormone, luteinizing hormone, melanocyte-stimulating hormone, and corticotropin. antidiuretic hormone (ADH) vasopressin.
1 The portion of the brain that maintains the body’s internal balance (homeostasis). 2  The hypothalamus is the link between the endocrine and nervous systems. 3  The hypothalamus produces releasing and inhibiting hormones, which stop and start the production of other hormones throughout the body. The hypothalamus is highly involved in pituitary gland function. When it receives a signal from the nervous system, the hypothalamus secretes substances known as neurohormones that start and stop the secretion of pituitary hormones.
The hypothalamus' primary function is homeostasis, which is to maintain the body's status quo system-wide. Hypothalamic hormones include thyrotropin-releasing, gonadotropin-releasing, growth hormone-releasing, corticotrophin-releasing, somatostatin, and dopamine hormones. Hypothalamus. The hypothalamus is a section of the brain responsible for the production of many of the body’s essential hormones, chemical substances that help control different cells and organs.
The Hypothalamus Essentials. 1  The portion of the brain that maintains the body’s internal balance (homeostasis). 2  The hypothalamus is the link between the endocrine and nervous systems. 3  The hypothalamus produces releasing and inhibiting hormones, which stop and start the production of other hormones throughout the body. The hypothalamus is highly involved in pituitary gland function. When it receives a signal from the nervous system, the hypothalamus secretes substances known as neurohormones that start and stop the secretion of pituitary hormones.
The hypothalamus communicates with the anterior portion of the pituitary gland by way of hormonal messages. Neurosecretory cells in the hypothalamus create hypothalamic-releasing and hypothalamic-inhibiting hormones, which tell the anterior pituitary to start or stop an action. When the hypothalamus detects that something is out of balance, its sends a message to the pituitary gland that a corrective action is needed. Depending on the need, either hormones produced in the anterior pituitary, or hypothalamic hormones stored in the posterior pituitary, are released into the body.
Overview of Hypothalamic and Pituitary Hormones. The pituitary gland is often portrayed as the master gland of the body. Such praise is justified in the sense that the anterior and posterior pituitary secrete a battery of hormones that collectively influence all cells and affect virtually all physiologic processes. Hypothalamic releasing and inhibiting hormones are carried directly to the anterior pituitary gland via hypothalamic-hypophyseal portal veins.
Noun. 1. hypothalamic releasing hormone-any of several hormones produced in the hypothalamus and carried by a vein to the anterior pituitary gland where they stimulate the release of anterior pituitary hormones; each of these hormones causes the anterior pituitary to secrete a specific hormone. 