Anthony Marvell was broad shouldered and long limbed, bones delicate, mouth a shade sulky. Jett was leaning against a white grand piano with a sulky expression on his face. The only fly in his ointment was the brief sight he got, between people, of his son Alexis sitting against a tree looking sulky. 
adverb. Sulkily is defined as something done in a pouty way or in a manner that shows unhappiness. If you are asked to cook dinner when you don't want to and you do so in a very pouty way, slamming cabinet doors and making faces, this is an example of making dinner sulkily.
On the 1st August he sold the buggy and bought the remains of an old sulky --said he just wanted to see those green Tennesseans stare and gawk when they saw him come a-ripping along in a sulky --didn't believe they'd ever heard of a sulky in their lives. [ˈsʌlkɪ] ADJ (sulkier (compar) (sulkiest (superl))) [ person, voice ] → malhumorado, enfurrunado; [ enfurruñado ] → expression, cenudo. ceñudo malhumorado to be sulky → about sth estar malhumorado or enfurrunado, enfurruñado por algo estar de mal. humor por algo
The homophone of there/their/they're    There refers  to some place.  Their is the  possessive pronoun of them or themselves. …  They're is a contraction or shortening of 'they are'.     The homophone of there/their/they're      There refers to some place.   Their  is the possessive pronoun of them or themselves.   They're is a contraction or shortening of 'they are'.   . Their means belonging to people or things previously mentioned or  easily identified (Your parents do not look similar, except for  their noses). By then means up to that time about which speaker is speaking. By that time refers to an action completed at the indicated time. Example : I ran back from across the … street. By then, the house was fully on fire..
I followed them rather sulkily to the table at which Strickland always sat, and he called for the board and the chessmen. Moon and Sixpence by Maugham, W. Somerset View in context. How do you know I want to go out with you, she said sulkily. Winesberg, Ohio by Anderson, Sherwood View in context. They all gave a shrug and an Indian grunt of acquiescence, and went off sulkily to their village, to lay aside their weapons for the present. sulk·y. adj. sulk·i·er, sulk·i·est. 1. Sullenly aloof or withdrawn. 2.
The term is also used for a light stroller, an arch mounted on wheels or crawler tracks and used in logging, or other types of vehicle having wheels and usually a seat for the driver, such as a plough, lister or cultivator. Translations for sulky. From our Multilingual Translation Dictionary. 
Definition of Sulkily. Here you will find one or more explanations in English for the word Sulkily. Also in the bottom left of the page several parts of wikipedia pages related to the word Sulkily and, of course, Sulkily synonyms and on the right images related to the word Sulkily.
Meaning of Sulkily. Here you will find one or more explanations in English for the word Sulkily. Also in the bottom left of the page several parts of wikipedia pages related to the word Sulkily and, of course, Sulkily synonyms and on the right images related to the word Sulkily.
Meaning of Sulkily from wikipedia. - for the adjective, see wiktionary:sulky. a sulky is a lightweight cart having two wheels and a seat for the driver only but usually without a. - a variety of carting is sulky driving, where a dog or dogs pulls a two-wheeled cart (sulky) with a person riding in the sulky. Also in the bottom left of the page several parts of wikipedia pages related to the word Sulkily and, of course, Sulkily synonyms and on the right images related to the word Sulkily.
(sŭl′kē). sulky. adj. sulk·i·er, sulk·i·est. 1. Sullenly aloof or withdrawn. [ˈsʌlkɪ] ADJ (sulkier (compar) (sulkiest (superl))) [ person, voice ] → malhumorado, enfurrunado; [ enfurruñado ] → expression, cenudo. ceñudo malhumorado to be sulky → about sth estar malhumorado or enfurrunado, enfurruñado por algo estar de mal. humor por algo