Two types of vaccine protect against polio: oral poliovirus vaccine (OPV) and inactivated poliovirus vaccine (IPV) (given as an injection in the leg or arm, depending on the patient's age). Polio, or poliomyelitis, is a crippling and potentially deadly infectious disease. It is caused by the poliovirus. The virus spreads from person to person and can invade an infected person’s brain and spinal cord, causing paralysis (can’t move parts of the body). 
1 This form of polio does not affect the central nervous system (the brain and spinal cord). 2  Non-paralytic: This form, which does affect the central nervous system, produces only mild symptoms and does not result in paralysis. Post-polio syndrome is a complication that can occur after a person has caught and recovered from poliovirus. Symptoms of the syndrome can appear up to 35 years after the polio infection.
Polio affects the body by attacking your central nervous system. It infects the spinal cord, brain and surrounding tissues. Your symptoms vary depending on which area of the spinal cord and brain it attacks. If you are affected by a lesser strain of poliovirus, you may experience minor symptoms that mirror the flu. 
PPS is a condition that affects polio survivors ten to 40 years after recovery from an initial infection. PPS is characterized by further weakening of muscles that were previously affected by the polio infection. Symptoms include fatigue, slowly progressive muscle weakness and deterioration. The polio virus enters the body through the mouth, usually from hands contaminated with the stool of an infected person. Polio is more common in infants and young children and occurs under conditions of poor hygiene. Paralysis is more common and more severe when infection occurs in older individuals.
Poliomyelitis, often called polio or infantile paralysis, is an infectious disease caused by the poliovirus. Approximately 90% to 95% of infections cause no symptoms. Poliomyelitis has existed for thousands of years, with depictions of the disease in ancient art. The disease was first recognized as a distinct condition by Michael Underwood in 1789 and the virus that causes it was first identified in 1908 by Karl Landsteiner.
Spinal polio is the most common form. It affects movement of the muscles and causes inflammation of the nerve Cells, leading to damage or destruction of motor neuron ganglia. When spinal neurons die, Wallerian degeneration takes place, leading to weakness of those muscles. 
A. Polio: The Disease. P oliomyelitis (polio) is a viral illness that begins suddenly with flu-like symptoms of fever, headache, vomiting and/or diarrhea, muscle aching and feeling poorly.. The virus enters the body through the stomach and intestines. 
Best Answer: How polio affects the body depends on the type of polio and what area it attacks. Nonparalytic polio is a type that doesn't lead to paralysis (abortive poliomyelitis). This usually causes the same mild, flu-like signs and symptoms — sore throat, fever, nausea, vomiting, and constipation or diarrhea — typical of other viral illnesses. Most people recover from abortive polio in less than a week. Another type of polio is bulbar polio. This is a severe type of polio and the virus affects the motor neurons in your brainstem, where the centers of the cranial nerves are located. These nerves are involved in your ability to see, hear, smell, taste and swallow
Polio is a viral disease which may affect the spinal cord causing muscle weakness and paralysis. The polio virus enters the body through the mouth, usually from hands contaminated with the stool of an infected person. Polio is more common in infants and young children and occurs under conditions of poor hygiene. Paralysis is more common and more severe when infection occurs in older individuals.