Essiac is a tonic herb which is taken in tea form; a tonic is an herbal formula that works to balance the whole system, not just one particular problem. A tonic such as essiac has three main uses: increase energy levels, normalize the function of organs by ridding the body of toxins and prevent diseases. When taken together as a brewed tea, essiac strengthens the immune system and purifies the body of toxins. As a result, the body becomes better equipped to fight off illness and disease, including cancer. The purpose of essiac is to completely detoxify your body.
The ratios for the eight herb essiac formula is not public knowledge. There is a four herb essiac formula that is public knowledge, but because the original essiac contained eight herbs, we do not recommend that you take a four herb essiac tea. We believe that eight herb essiac is superior. The essiac formula was first used by the Ojibwas, and an Ojibway medicine man gave Rene Caisse, a Canadian nurse, the formula in 1892. True essiac blends should be harvested, powdered or pulverized, and mixed in a particular manner. Essiac is used by those suffering from cancer, diabetes, immune problems, respiratory problems, neurological disorders, and other conditions
What is Essiac Tea? Essiac is a pleasant-tasting four-herb tea which was developed from a native American remedy by Canadian nurse Rene Caisse. According to the research of Sheila Snow and Mali Klein the original, native formula consisted of eight herbs. According to Rene Caisse, sheep sorrel roots are very essential to the formula. Therefore, if sheep sorrel roots are not included, it is not authentic Essiac tea. Unlike Chinese green tea or black tea, Essiac tea does not contain caffeine. Rene Caisse called her tea Essiac--her surname spelled backwards.
As with many alternative remedies, the exact composition of Essiac is unclear, but it reportedly contains burdock (Arctium lappa), sheep sorrel (Rumex acetosella), slippery elm bark (Ulmus rubra), and Indian rhubarb (Rheum officinale) or turkey rhubarb (Rheum palmatum) . From the 1920s through the 1970s, Essiac was promoted as a cancer treatment by Rene Caisse, a Canadian nurse, who claimed that it had been given to her by an Ontario Ojibwa patient she treated. However, this has never been substantiated.
Essiac has not been shown to treat or prevent cancer. Essiac was developed in the 1920s by Rene Caisse, a Canadian nurse. It contains four botanicals: burdock root, sheep sorrel, slippery elm, and rhubarb. Laboratory studies have shown that Essiac has antioxidant and cytotoxic properties. Essiac was developed in the 1920s by Rene Caisse, a Canadian nurse. It is a formulation of four botanicals: burdock root, sheep sorrel root, slippery elm bark, and rhubarb root.
The herbs are boiled for a short time and then left to steep for 8-12 hours. The tea is then boiled once more and then strained. Each herb in the essiac tea recipe has roots in natural folk medicine. Sheep sorrel and burdock have been used for centuries to treat cancer and other illnesses. Slippery elm bark and turkey rhubarb are known for their healing and detoxifying abilities. Essiac tonic is a concentrated extraction of the herbs used to make essiac tea. Some people prefer the tonic over the tea because of certain advantages it has. Because the herbs are highly concentrated, a much lower dose is needed.
Essiac, given its name by Rene Caisse (caisse spelt backwards), consists of four main herbs that grow in the wilderness of Ontario, Canada. 