From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Pinus radiata, family Pinaceae, the Monterey pine, insignis pine or radiata pine, is a species of pine native to the Central Coast of California and Mexico (Guadalupe Island and Cedros island). Pinus radiata is a versatile, fast-growing, medium-density softwood, suitable for a wide range of uses. Its silviculture is highly developed, and is built on a firm foundation of over a century of research, observation and practice.
Radiata pine is classed as a medium-density softwood. Radiata pine clearwood (wood that is free of defects such as knots, holes or other blemishes) is one of the world's best clearwoods. Due to research and the high quality of New Zealand Radiata pine, it can be used in many applications (see below).
Radiata pine's botanical name is Pinus radiata-it is also known as Monterey pine and New Zealand pine. Radiata pine was introduced into New Zealand in the 19th century. Although native to California, USA, it actually grows faster in New Zealand than in its original home. It can reach maturity in around 28 years.
1 a pine tree, Pinus radiata, native to the western USA. but grown in Australia, New Zealand, and elsewhere to produce building timber.
Radiata pine is native to the central coast of California but is widely planted in Australia and New Zealand. It makes up 28% of Tasmania’s timber plantations and is popular in all types of construction and decorative uses. These include framing, lining, glue laminated beams, veneer and plywood.
Color/Appearance: Heartwood is light brown, wide sapwood is a paler yellowish white, and is distinct from the heartwood. Radiata Pine lumber is plantation-grown, and generally has very wide growth rings and is knot-free. Grain/Texture: Straight grained with a medium, even texture.
Comments: In the southern hemisphere, where pines are to a large extent absent, Radiata Pine is the most commonly planted and cultivated pine. It is valued on plantations for its fast growth and utility as both a source of construction lumber as well as wood pulp in the paper industry.