Ivana is a feminine given name, of Slavic origins. It is the feminine form of the name Ivan, which both are the Slavic cognates of the names Joanna and John. Variants Iva and Ivanka are diminutives derived from Ivana, and the name can also be spelled as Ivanna. Name day is celebrated on April 4.
Ivana /iva-na/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced ee-VAH-nah. It is of Czechoslovakian, Slavic and Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Ivana is God is gracious. Feminine of Ivan, from John. See also Evania. Ivana Trump, ex-wife of Donald Trump. Ivana is a somewhat popular first name for females (#2684 out of 4276, Top 63%) but a unique last name for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Ivana for girls.
Hebrew Meaning: The name Ivana is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Ivana is: Gift from God. Czechoslovakian Meaning: The name Ivana is a Czechoslovakian baby name. In Czechoslovakian the meaning of the name Ivana is: Feminine of Ivan. Russian Meaning: The name Ivana is a Russian baby name. In Russian the meaning of the name Ivana is: Feminine of Ivan: God's gracious gift.
Comments and insights on the name Ivana: | Edit. The name Ivana is pronounced: ee-va-na. It is a feminine form of Ivan. It is of Russian (Slavic) and Hebrew origins. 
Ivana is of Hebrew origin. It is used mainly in Czech, Russian, Slavic, and Italian. In addition, Ivana is a Czech, Russian, and Slavic spelling variant of the Russian Iwana and a Czech, Russian, and Slavic form of the English Jane. Ivana is also a Slavic form of the English and Scottish Jean. Ivana is also a Czech, Italian, Russian, and Slavic form of the English Joan. Ivana is the feminine equivalent of the Belorussian, Czech, English, Russian, Slavic, and Ukrainian Ivan. Ivana has 14 forms that are used in English and foreign languages.
The meaning of this name is God is gracious. The origin is Hebrew. The name Ivan (m) means the same as the name Jan. It's a Russian form, but I don't think that Ivana is a commonly used name in Russia. Ivana is a female form and means the same as Jana. 
Hebrew Meaning: The name Ivanna is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Ivanna is: Gift from God. Czechoslovakian Meaning: The name Ivanna is a Czechoslovakian baby name. In Czechoslovakian the meaning of the name Ivanna is: Feminine of Ivan. Greek Meaning: The name Ivanna is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Ivanna is: Gift of the gods. 
Ivanna /ivan-na/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name. Ivanna's name origin is Hebrew, and the meaning of the name Ivanna is God is gracious. Ivanna is a version of Ivana (Czechoslovakian, Slavic, Hebrew): feminine of Ivan. Ivanna is also a form of Jane (Hebrew). Kreatif forms: Ivanda, Ivanio, Ivannaio. 