Naples-Napoli. Naples is one of Italy's most vibrant cities. It lies on the coast south of Rome and is the most important city in southern Italy. Naples has recently undergone some renovation but still retains much of its old character. It holds many historical and artistic treasures. Venice-Venezia. Venice is a unique city built on water in the middle of a lagoon. Venice is one of Italy's most beautiful and romantic cities as well as one of the most popular for visitors to Italy. The heart of Venice is Piazza San Marco with its magnificent church, Saint Mark's Basilica.
1 Milan (Milano) — one of the main fashion cities of the world, but also Italy's most important centre of trade and business. 2  Naples (Napoli) — one of the oldest cities of the Western world, with a historic city centre that is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Italy is, for the most part, a peninsula situated on the Mediterranean Sea, bordering France, Switzerland, Austria, and Slovenia in the north. Italy, which is boot-shaped, is surrounded by the Ligurian and the Tyrrhenian Seas to the west, the Mediterranean and Ionian Seas to the South, and the Adriatic Sea to the East.
Which US City is Farthest South. The most southern city in the US is Kailua Kona on the Island of Hawaii. The southernmost city in Continental USA is Key West, Florida. 
Italy has so much to see and do, from skiing in the Alps, the Lake District of the north, the historic and stylish cities of Florence, Milan, Naples, Siena, Turin and Venice, coastal cities and quaint little villages, and of course Rome, and the Holy See (Vatican). The boot-shape peninsula of Italy, extending into the central Mediterranean Sea is a rugged, mountainous country of simply stunning scenery that also includes the popular island destinations of Sardinia and Elba to the west, and Capri, Ischia and Sicily off the southern coast.
Naalehu, Hawaii is the most southern city of the united states, and Punta arenas, Argentina is the south most city of the world. 
New York City Distances. New York is one of the top cities in USA. With a distance of almost 109 kilometers Philadelphia in Pennsylvania is the closest to it while with a distance of 5659 kilometers Charlotte in North Carolina is the farthest. Los Angeles is 1765 miles from New York City as per the distance chart of cities of USA. Los Angeles Distances. San Diego in California is the closest city Los Angeles at a distance of 124 miles while Grand Junction in Colorado at 7778 kilometers is the farthest city from LA. Chicago, Illinois is 2028 kilometers from the city. San Antonio, Texas is the closest city to Houston at a distance of 199 kilometers while Seattle, Washington lies the farthest with a distance of 2442 kilometers. New York is 1652 kilometers from Houston.
Castiglione della Pescaia is an affordable beach town with plenty of water sports including sailing and windsurfing. The best scuba diving can be found further south in Monte Argentario's coves and bays. Tuscany's largest beach town is one of the farthest points south on the Italian Riviera. Viareggio is a classic resort town with art nouveau buildings, bustling nightlife and endless food. 
Southern Italy or Mezzogiorno (. [ˌmɛddzoˈdʒorno] , literally midday) is the traditional term for the southern regions of Italy, encompassing the southern section of the continental Italian Peninsula and the island of Sicily. It coincides with the administrative regions of Abruzzo, Apulia, Basilicata, Campania, Calabria, Molise, and Sicily. The term Mezzogiorno (midday in Italian) first came into use in the 18th century and is an Italian rendition of meridies (Latin for 'south', because of the sun's position at midday in the Northern Hemisphere).