Permanent magnets (materials that can be magnetized by an external magnetic field and remain magnetized after the external field is removed) are either ferromagnetic or ferrimagnetic, as are other materials that are noticeably attracted to them. Only a few substances are ferromagnetic. A magnet made of alnico, an iron alloy, with its keeper. Ferromagnetism is the theory which explains how materials become magnets. Ferromagnetism is the basic mechanism by which certain materials (such as iron) form permanent magnets, or are attracted to magnets. In physics, several different types of magnetism are distinguished
Diamagnetic materials have a weak, negative susceptibility to magnetic fields. Diamagnetic materials are slightly repelled by a magnetic field and the material does not retain the magnetic properties when the external field is removed. Paramagnetic materials have a small, positive susceptibility to magnetic fields. These materials are slightly attracted by a magnetic field and the material does not retain the magnetic properties when the external field is removed.
Quizzes. Diamagnetic, Paramagnetic, and Ferromagnetic Materials. When a material is placed within a magnetic field, the magnetic forces of the material's electrons will be affected. This effect is known as Faraday's Law of Magnetic Induction. However, materials can react quite differently to the presence of an external magnetic field. Paramagnetic materials have a small, positive susceptibility to magnetic fields. These materials are slightly attracted by a magnetic field and the material does not retain the magnetic properties when the external field is removed.
A permanent magnet is an object made from a material that is magnetized and creates its own persistent magnetic field. Often, the coil is wrapped around a core of soft ferromagnetic material such as steel, which greatly enhances the magnetic field produced by the coil. The overall strength of a magnet is measured by its magnetic moment or, alternatively, the total magnetic flux it produces.
Materials that can be magnetized, which are also the ones that are strongly attracted to a magnet, are called ferromagnetic (or ferrimagnetic). These include iron, nickel, cobalt, some alloys of rare earth metals, and some naturally occurring minerals such as lodestone. Often, the coil is wrapped around a core of soft ferromagnetic material such as steel, which greatly enhances the magnetic field produced by the coil. The overall strength of a magnet is measured by its magnetic moment or, alternatively, the total magnetic flux it produces.
Magnetic materials. Materials exhibiting ferromagnetism. The magnetic properties of all materials make them respond in some way to a magnetic field, but most materials are diamagnetic or paramagnetic and show almost no response. The materials that are most important to magnetic technology are ferromagnetic and ferrimagnetic materials. The quality of magnetic materials is continually being improved by using increasingly pure raw materials (charge materials) and by perfecting production processes (for example, heat-treating the materials in a protective medium and vacuum melting).
Ferromagnets. A ferromagnetic material is one that has magnetic properties similar to those of iron. In other words, you can make a magnet out of it. Some other ferromagnetic materials are nickel, cobalt, and alnico, an aluminum-nickel-cobalt alloy. Magnetic fields come from currents. When a piece of unmagnetized iron (or other ferromagnetic material) is exposed to an external magnetic field, two things happen. First, the direction of magnetization (the way the spins point) of each domain will tend to shift towards the direction of the field.