The American white pelican (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) is a large aquatic soaring bird from the order Pelecaniformes. It breeds in interior North America, moving south and to the coasts, as far as Central America and South America, in winter. The German naturalist Johann Friedrich Gmelin described the American white pelican in 1789. The scientific name means red-billed pelican, from the Latin term for a pelican, Pelecanus, and erythrorhynchos, derived from the Ancient Greek words erythros (ἐρυθρός, red) + rhynchos (ῥύγχος, bill).
Florida has two Pelicans, the Brown who is a year round resident and the White Pelican who is a snowbird and only comes here in the winter. A White Pelican at Sanibel Island, Florida Pelecanus erythrorhynchos Photo credit: Dick Daniels The Pelican is a truly exciting bird to watch. Florida has two Pelicans, the Brown who is a year round resident and. the White Pelican who is a snowbird and only comes here in the winter. A White Pelican at Sanibel Island, Florida Pelecanus erythrorhynchos Photo credit: Dick Daniels.
The Great White Pelican is also called by other names such as the Eastern White Pelican, Rosy pelican or white pelican. These pelicans are often found in warm fresh water. They inhabit areas of Africa, Asia and Europe. They live primarily in the lakes of Africa with a migratory route across Eastern Europe to Kazakhstan. Others of this species live and breed in the Dante River in Romania. They are not found south of the Amazon River. A large population of these birds live in the Gulf of Mexico. The Peruvian Pelican is another species of pelican that inhabit the Americas. It inhabits the west coast of South America from Lobos de Tierra Island in Peru to Pupuya Islet in Chile.
White pelicans have a wingspan of 9 feet, and males and females are similar in appearance. In flight they can be confused with wood storks or whooping cranes as all three birds have similar distinctive black wingtips that stand out against the all-white plumage. White pelicans are cooperative feeders. They do not plunge dive like the brown pelican, but rather, they use a coordinated feeding strategy and swim in a line or half circle, ‘herding’ fish towards the shore. Two groups of pelicans will sometimes ‘herd’ fish towards each other.
The American white pelican about four feet tall and has a wingspan of about nine feet. It is entirely white except for its black-edged wings that are visible when the American white pelican is in flight. It has a long neck, a long orange bill with an expandable pouch and short orange legs with big webbed feet. 
The great white pelican is a huge bird, with only the Dalmatian pelican averaging larger amongst the pelicans. The wingspan can range from 226 to 360 cm (7.41 to 11.81 ft), with the latter measurement the largest recorded among extant flying animals outside of the great albatrosses. For the North American bird also called white pelican, see American white pelican. The great white pelican (Pelecanus onocrotalus) also known as the eastern white pelican, rosy pelican or white pelican is a bird in the pelican family. It breeds from southeastern Europe through Asia and in Africa in swamps and shallow lak
White Pelican. Unlike the brown pelicans, which are year-round residents of Florida, white pelicans spend only part of the year here. In fact, it is estimated that over 1,500 white pelicans migrate to the area from October through March. White pelicans search for food in large groups. Instead of diving for food the way brown pelicans do, white pelicans swim on the surface in a semicircle and herd the fish to shallower water near the shore. Then using their pouches as fishnets, the white pelicans submerge their heads and necks and scoop up the fish.
Thanks to a 30-year leg banding study, biologists now know that the pelicans nesting in the Minnesota area overwinter in Mexico, Texas and other Gulf States. Studies also show that white pelicans can live as long as 30 years. The is promising for the American white pelican in Wisconsin. To view white pelicans this summer, visit Horicon Marsh National Wildlife Refuge. Spotting scopes at the visitor center offer a close-up experience from a safe distance. 