1 Sowing seeds indoors gives a faster and more reliable germination rate, particularly for runner beans. 2  At the end of April sow a single bean seed, 4cm (1.5in) deep, in a 7.5cm (3in) pot filled with multi-purpose compost. How to sow seeds. 1  Sowing seeds indoors gives a faster and more reliable germination rate, particularly for runner beans. 2  At the end of April sow a single bean seed, 4cm (1.5in) deep, in a 7.5cm (3in) pot filled with multi-purpose compost.
I put runner bean seeds into a plastic bag with moist compost. after about a few days the seeds show a root so I know which seed will grow. I pot up the sprouting seeds into rootrainers leave until they are about 8 inches high and then I plant out. I have done this every year for the past 11 years with 100% success. Hi all........ just a quickie...... planted my runner bean and french bean 2 weeks ago today-all my french beans have just started coming up or are up but no sign of life of the runner beans.
Runner bean seeds have a high germination rate of 85%, and for this reason should be sown thinly, one seed every 15cm (6in), to be thinned out to a final spacing of one seedling every 30cm (1ft) about 3 weeks after sowing. Runner Beans can be given a head start (about four weeks) by sowing them inside and / or under cloches-click here for more detailed information. Simply place the poly-tunnel in position two weeks before sowing (to warm up the soil), then sow the seed three or four weeks earlier than normal.
Grow Runner Beans from Seed. Runner beans are a half hardy plant, that is they are planted out in early summer after the risk of frost is gone. The runner beans are harvested until the plants are killed by frost in late autumn. Remember to dig over the site for the runner beans in the autumn or winter and incorporate plenty of well-rotted manure or compost. When the plants are ready for planting out, fork into the topsoil 2-3oz of a general fertiliser such as Growmore.
Germination of pole beans should take between eight to ten days.  After germination, pole beans can be harvested after about 70 days  and can be harvested five times during … the growing season. 
Drop in a Runner Bean seed before backfilling the hole with compost and watering the seed in. Runner Beans will germinate in about a week and grow surprisingly quickly. You will need to harden Runner Bean plants off for 7 to 10 days before transplanting them outdoors. Direct sowing outdoors: Alternatively you can sow Runner Bean seed directly in the ground outdoors from May to July. Sow them at a depth of 5cm (2) and a distance of 30cm (12) apart in adjacent rows that are set about 45cm (18) apart.
Time Frame. Under good conditions, beans germinate in eight to 10 days. Beans may take two weeks or longer if the soil temperature is under 60 degrees Fahrenheit. Wait until daytime temperatures are above 75 degrees Fahrenheit before planting bean seeds for fast germination. 
Runner Beans are a great starting point to growing your own veg because they are amongst the easiest crops to grow. Large seed which is easy to handle and quick to germinate, (within about 5-7 days of sowing) fast growing, Runner Beans will crop in most all summer conditions and are fairly well pest and disease free. Runner beans will fruit for a long period of time right up to the first frosts. In a good summer with a mild autumn, such as 2014, beans were picked up to November.
It's been 10 days since I sowed my runner bean seeds (in pots, in my shed). No sign of seedlings yet. Is this normal? How long does it normally take for them to germinate? I am new to all this (growing vegetables) so please excuse my ignorance. 