Selenium is a chemical element with symbol Se and atomic number 34. It is a nonmetal with properties that are intermediate between those of its periodic table column-adjacent chalcogen elements sulfur and tellurium. It rarely occurs in its elemental state in nature, or as pure ore compounds. Selenium salts are toxic in large amounts, but trace amounts are necessary for cellular function in many organisms, including all animals. Selenium is an ingredient in many multivitamins and other dietary supplements, including infant formula.
1 Some research shows that taking a 100-200 mcg of a specific selenium supplement (SelenoPrecise, Pharma Nord, Denmark) daily for 6 months can modestly reduce cholesterol levels. 2  Many people in this study had low levels of selenium in their body before the start of the study. 1 Heart disease. 2  Taking 100 mcg of selenium in combination with beta-carotene, vitamin C, and vitamin E does not seem to prevent heart disease from becoming worse. 3  Also, taking 200 mcg of selenium daily for almost 8 years does not reduce the risk of developing h
Selenium is available in many multivitamin-mineral supplements and other dietary supplements. It can be present in several different forms, including selenomethionine and sodium selenate. Selenium is a nutrient that the body needs to stay healthy. Selenium is important for reproduction, thyroid gland function, DNA production, and protecting the body from damage caused by free radicals and from infection.
14 Reviews. Selenium is mineral that is found in soil and occurs naturally in certain foods (such as whole grains, Brazil nuts, sunflower seeds, and seafood). Selenium is not produced in the body, but it is needed for proper thyroid and immune system function. Selenium is used to treat or prevent selenium deficiency. Selenium has been used in alternative medicine as an aid to treat Hashimoto's thyroiditis (an autoimmune disorder of the thyroid), and to treat high cholesterol. Selenium should not be used in place of medication prescribed for you by your doctor. Selenium may also be used for purposes not listed in this product guide. High doses or long-term use of selenium can lead to serious medical problems or death. Do not use more of this product than is recommended on the label.
Selenium as a supplement. Selenium is one of several nutrients known to have antioxidant properties, meaning selenium plays a part in chemical reactions that stop free radicals from damaging cells and DNA. Free radicals are unstable molecules from environmental toxins, or from byproducts of the human body's metabolism. Selenium supplements in particular are purported to help people with asthma, and reduce the risk of rheumatoid arthritis and cardiovascular disease. Selenium levels drop with age, so some have claimed selenium can slow the aging process, cognitive decline and dementia.
Descriptions. Selenium supplements are used to prevent or treat selenium deficiency. The body needs selenium for normal growth and health. Selenium is needed for certain enzymes that help with normal body functions. Although selenium is being used to prevent certain types of cancer, there is not enough information to show that this is effective. If you think that you are not getting enough vitamins and/or minerals in your diet, you may choose to take a dietary supplement. Selenium is found in seafood, liver, lean red meat, and grains grown in soil that is rich in selenium.
Food. Seafoods and organ meats are the richest food sources of selenium [ 1 ]. Other sources include muscle meats, cereals and other grains, and dairy products. The amount of selenium in drinking water is not nutritionally significant in most geographic regions [ 2, 6 ]. 
Skin cancer: Long-term use of selenium supplements might slightly increase the risk of skin cancer recurrence, but this is controversial. Until more is known about the possible increase in skin cancer risk, avoid long-term use of selenium supplements if you have ever had skin cancer. 1 Heart disease. 2  Taking 100 mcg of selenium in combination with beta-carotene, vitamin C, and vitamin E does not seem to prevent heart disease from becoming worse. 3  Also, taking 200 mcg of selenium daily for almost 8 years does not reduce the risk of developing h