A multinational corporation is usually a large corporation which produces or sells goods or services in various countries. 1  Importing and exporting goods and services. 2  Making significant investments in a foreign country. One of the first multinational business organizations, the East India Company, arose in 1600. After East India Company, came the Dutch East India Company, founded March 20, 1602, which would become the largest company in the world for nearly 200 years.
A multinational corporation (MNC) or multinational enterprise is an organization that owns or controls production of goods or services in one or more countries other than their home country. One of the first multinational business organizations, the East India Company, arose in 1600. After East India Company, came the Dutch East India Company, founded March 20, 1602, which would become the largest company in the world for nearly 200 years.
The Multinational Enterprises and Enterprise Engagement Unit (MULTI) supported CEPB in the launch of its CSR Unit when participating in a series of activities in La Paz in February 2015, highlighting the global and regional trends in CSR and the approach of the ILO MNE Declaration. Country-level assistance. This annotated bibliography provides a succinct overview of the significant amount of research, analysis, and guidance documents on the activities of multinational enterprises (MNEs) that has been published by the ILO and others from 2005 to 2015.
multinational corporation. business enterprise with manufacturing, sales, or service subsidiaries in one or more foreign countries, also known as a transnational or international corporation. These corporations originated early in the 20th cent. and proliferated after World War II
As the name implies, a multinational corporation is a business concern with operations in more than one country. These operations outside the company's home country may be linked to the parent by merger, operated as subsidiaries, or have considerable autonomy. Multinational corporations are sometimes perceived as large, utilitarian enterprises with little or no regard for the social and economic well-being of the countries in which they operate, but the reality of their situation is more complicated.
Multinational corporations (MNCs) are business entities that operate in more than one country. A typically one normally functions with a headquarters that is based in one country, while other facilities are based in locations in other countries. In some circles, this type of corporation is referred to as a multinational enterprise (MBE) or a transnational corporation (TNC). Another structural model for a multinational organization or MNO is to base the parent company in one nation and operate subsidiaries in other countries around the world. With this model, just about all the functions of the parent are based in the country of origin.
A firm with over 10% of foreign ownership and the movement of long-term capital to finace business activities abroad, with foreign investors controlling at least 10% of the enterprise. A multinational enterprise is a firm that has productive capacity in a number of countries. 
DEFINITION of 'Multinational Corporation-MNC'. A corporation that has its facilities and other assets in at least one country other than its home country. Such companies have offices and/or factories in different countries and usually have a centralized head office where they co-ordinate global management. Very large multinationals have budgets that exceed those of many small countries. Sometimes referred to as a transnational corporation. A multinational corporation is just that – a corporation that operates in multiple nations, with a home office that coordinates global management. Being a multinational corporation is a complicated ...
Global multinational enterprises (MNEs) are companies that operate on a global scale, as opposed to MNEs that are regionally focused. So, a company where 70% of their sales are generated in Asia would not be considered a global MNE even though they might have significant operations in more than one country, but one where 30% of sales are from each of Asia, Africa and Europe would be considered a global MNE.
Definition. An enterprise operating in several countries but managed from one (home) country. Generally, any company or group that derives a quarter of its revenue from operations outside of its home country is considered a multinational corporation. 