I live in Spain. I own a refrigerator. I just moved. The moving guy and my wife (both Spanish) insisted that after the refrigerator had been moved it had to settle for 24 hours before being plugged in. The guys who brought the fridge to my old house four years ago when I bought it told me the same thing. You don't have to let it settle if you kept it upright, but if you tipped it back, or had to lay it down for any reason, you have to let it stand for a while. If you don't, the compressor will be damaged.
I'm moving house next weekend, and was wondering how long my fridge freezer should be left before I can turn it on again, I've had conflicting information from various websites saying anything from 1 hour to 24 hours. If transported totally upright, then you only need to leave it for a couple of hours-if at an angle or laid down then at least 24 hours-well this is what I have been told by several removers when I moved house 7 months ago. Kirk P(2) likes this. 02-12-12, 19:49 #7. Hi, I'm New.
Resolved Question: I had a new fridge freezer delivered yesterday and the delivery man said something about standing it for 6 hours before using it. I think I misinterpreted what he said as I switched it on to let it stand for 6 hours before putting food in it but now I am thinking he meant to leave it unplugged. 
•Position it into its new space. Before you plug it in, let the refrigerator sit for at least 2-3 hours. This allows the fluids to flow back into the compressor. This is critical to its cooling mechanism. •Leave it plugged in. It'll take a while before the fridge is ready to use. Some require 3 days before they'll reach an optimum temperatur
Report Abuse. When installing your new fridge freezer, keep it upright and allow at least six hours before switching on for the coolant to settle inside. Let new freezers stand overnight before loading with food to let them reach the correct temperature. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Yes...well they say 24 hours but if it was only on its side for 30 mins then I'd say you would be ok after about 4 hours It would obviously be better if you could leaver it overnight. You are probably aware that the reason is that the oil runs out of the compressor.
Today I received my new refrigerator, and I've been told not to plug it in until a couple of hours have gone by. Some people told me a couple of hours was enough, but others have told me up to 12 hours. If you start the compressor with insufficient oil, it can be damaged. So, the manufacturers recommend 2 hours JUST IN CASE. If you KNOW that the refrigerator has been transported horizontally, I'd leave it upright for 24 hours just to be 100% sure.
Advice from different manufacturers varies considerably. In my Neff fridge’s instruction book it advises only, “at least half an hour”, which is surprisingly low. A Smeg fridge freezer instruction book says, “let it settle for 6 hours”. This 6 hour recommendation is increased to 24 hours if it is known that the appliance has been laid down. At the end of the day, the last thing you want is a system blockage. If you had to temporarily tip the appliance over to get it through a door or off a vehicle then you need to let it stand for longer than if it was kept upright constantly. If you know it’s been laid down leave it for 24 hours.
The Knowhow. When your fridge freezer first arrives, you'll need to let it stand upright for around four hours before turning it on if it's been transported horizontally. If your fridge freezer has been transported upright you'll only need to wait for 30 minutes to an hour. 
Best Answer: I'm pretty sure you shouldn't lay a refrigerator down to move. Every box they come in makes a big deal about this. The compressor and other components aren't designed or installed to take the shocks of moving in a horizontal position. As for the question you asked, you don't have to let it rest. You will have to wait about 12 hours for it to reach the temp setting once you plug it in. Source(s):