Not to be confused with the Haitian town of Marmelade. Marmalade is a fruit preserve made from the juice and peel of citrus fruits boiled with sugar and water. It can be produced from kumquats, lemons, limes, grapefruits, mandarins, sweet oranges, bergamots and other citrus fruits, or any combination thereof. In much of Europe, the term “marmalade” and its variations is still used as a generic term, whereas in Britain it has been redefined solely to a citrus preserve. The name originates in Portuguese, where marmelada applies exclusively to quince jam (from  marmelo , the Portuguese for quince).
Marmalade is a sticky, usually orange fruit preserve which is similar to jam. It comes from the juice that is formed from boiling citrus fruits with sugar and water. It is of … ten used as a popular topping on toast or in sandwiches. 1 person found this useful. 
The benchmark citrus fruit for marmalade production in Britain is the Spanish Seville orange, Citrus aurantium var. aurantium, prized for its high pectin content, which gives a good set. The peel has a distinctive bitter taste which it imparts to the marmalade. In much of Europe, the term “marmalade” and its variations is still used as a generic term, whereas in Britain it has been redefined solely to a citrus preserve. The name originates in Portuguese, where marmelada applies exclusively to quince jam (from  marmelo , the Portuguese for quince).
Marmalade is basically bits of citrus fruit rind in a jelly base. It can taste sweet or slightly bitter. It's as healthy as any other jelly or jam. Due to the sugar content li … mited use is OK unless you're hypoglycemic or diabetic. Measure out fruit. To each quart of fruit add 1 quart of sugar. Bring to a boil, then reduce heat and simmer until marmalade thickens and the oranges are clear.   Ladle into hot sterilized jars and process in a boiling water bath for 10 minutes.
Marmalade is a sticky, usually orange fruit preserve which is similar to jam. It comes from the juice that is formed from boiling citrus fruits with sugar and water. It is of … ten used as a popular topping on toast or in sandwiches. Measure out fruit. To each quart of fruit add 1 quart of sugar. Bring to a boil, then reduce heat and simmer until marmalade thickens and the oranges are clear.   Ladle into hot sterilized jars and process in a boiling water bath for 10 minutes.
Marmalade. Marmalade is a fruit preserve made from the juice and peel of citrus fruits boiled with sugar and water. It can be produced from lemons, limes, grapefruits, mandarins, sweet oranges, bergamots and other citrus fruits, or any combination thereof. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: marmalade (Noun). Citrus fruit variant of jam but distinguished by being made slightly bitter by the addition of the peel and by partial caramelisation during manufacture.
marmalade. it's the new meaning for any thing that you find gay about males or if you are gay what you like about another male. straight man :that guy is so marmalade look at how he talks to joe. gay man: man what are you talking about that man over there is so firkin marmalade i wish he was talking to me. 
• MARMALADE (noun). The noun MARMALADE has 1 sense: 1. a preserve made of the pulp and rind of citrus fruits. Familiarity information: MARMALADE used as a noun is very rare. There are too many chiefs and not enough Indians. (English proverb). Heaven hath no rage like love to hatred turned, nor hell a fury like a woman scorned..
(Lady Marmalade) tells the story of a woman known only as Lady Marmalade, who seduces a man she met on the street in New Orleans, Louisiana. Although the man has moved on from the experience, when he tries to sleep his memories of their tryst remain vivid. It