Stay with Me (Lorraine Ellison song). From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia.  Stay with Me  (often credited as  Stay with Me Baby ) is a soul song co-written by Jerry Ragovoy and George David Weiss. It was first recorded in 1966 by Lorraine Ellison, and produced by Ragovoy. Ellison recorded Stay With Me at a last-minute booking, following a studio cancellation by Frank Sinatra. With a 46-piece orchestra already hired, Warner Bros. Records asked Ragovoy, with two days' notice, to take over the session at no cost.
Stay with Me is a song by British singer-songwriter Sam Smith, released as the third single from his debut studio album, In the Lonely Hour (2014). It was released in the United Kingdom as a digital download on 18 May 2014. The song was written by Smith, Jimmy Napes. 
Lorraine Ellison (March 17, 1931 – January 31, 1983) was an American soul singer known for her recording of the song  Stay with Me  (sometimes known as Stay With Me Baby) in 1966. 1  1 Life and career. She signed with Warner Bros. Records, and in 1966 recorded Stay with Me at a last minute booking, following a studio cancellation by Frank Sinatra. Stay with Me reached number 11 in the U.S. Billboard R&B chart and number 64 in the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart. The song was produced and written by Jerry Ragovoy
Lorraine Ellison (March 17, 1931 – January 31, 1983) was an American soul singer known for her recording of the song  Stay with Me  (sometimes known as Stay With Me Baby) in 1966. Contents. She signed with Warner Bros. Records, and in 1966 recorded Stay with Me at a last minute booking, following a studio cancellation by Frank Sinatra. Stay with Me reached number 11 in the U.S. Billboard R&B chart and number 64 in the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart. The song was produced and written by Jerry Ragovoy
Stay with me by Lorraine Ellison. written by Jerry Ragovoy and George David Weiss, produced by Jerry Ragovoy. I do not own this song, all credit goes to Warner Bros Records.  1 Stay With Me (Single Version) by Lorraine Ellison (Google Play • iTunes • AmazonMP3). 2  Music. 3  Standard YouTube License
The lyrics are correct, as well as the music, but it's a different artist...perhaps a remake? I vaguely remember the video for this song back in the late 80's of two twin sisters singing thus song, with long brown curly hair. The chorus is: Stay with me, can't you see, baby say you'll stay with me. Here's a link to sample the Deodato version: http://www.allmusic.com/song/stay-with-me-mt0005233069 Thanks! 
There is a Song by Ne-Yo titled Stay that contains the lyrics: All I need is you. I did not notice a similar lyric in the other songs. You can google songs by these artist to check on lyrics. Diana Ross and Ne-Yo videos on Youtube. 