To apply for a skip permit you first need to identify the appropriate local authority. Please choose from the options below, enter your details and click 'Go'. This service is only available in England. 
Your local council is required by law to require a permit to be purchased if a skip is to be placed on public land. We will take care of the application and you won't need to give it a second thought, but we need to know at this point if you will require one. No Permit needed. You don't need a permit if the skip is to be placed on YOUR land, such as in your garden on on your drive way. The skip must be wholly on your land. Permit needed. You need a permit if the skip is to be placed on Public land, such as a road, pavement or anywhere else considered public land. The permit lasts for defined period and will not need to be renewed during this time for exchanges booked.
Councils issue skip permits. Skip permits are available from your local council. Most councils allow the skip hire company to apply for the skip permit on your behalf but a few require the person hiring the skip to order the skip permit directly. Before putting a skip on any public highway (which includes roads and pavements), you will need to have a skip hire permit, sometimes referred to as a skip license. If you do not have a skip permit, your skip can be removed without notice and you may also be liable to a fine.
Overview. Contact your council to apply for a skip permit or licence to place a skip on a public road or footpath in Scotland. You need a permit if you: 1  operate a skip hire business. 2  plan to use a skip that isn’t from a private hire company. You can be fined by the council if you place an unlicensed skip on a public road, cause damage to any public property or if you don’t follow any of the restrictions of your permit. You will also have to move the skip.
The first thing to do to apply for a skip permit, please contact the council by phone, fax, email or in writing. The council will then send you a form which you must complete and post back. Payment will be requested from you once the permit has been issued by the council. Other regulations that the skip owner or supplier is responsible for adhering to are: Skip permit expiry. Once the skip permit issued by the council has expired, you must remove the skip from the road. The road where the skip was positioned must also be left in a clean and tidy condition.
If you are hiring a skip for your home or business and need to place it on the road you will need a skip permit from your local council. The requirements are laid out in the Highways Act 1980: section 139 road traffic regulations act, 1984. First you will need to check your local council s skip hire permit guidelines. Other regulations that the skip owner or supplier is responsible for adhering to are: Skip permit expiry. Once the skip permit issued by the council has expired, you must remove the skip from the road. The road where the skip was positioned must also be left in a clean and tidy condition.
Skip permits are required for any skip placed on the road. Before putting a skip on any public highway (which includes roads and pavements), you will need to have a skip hire permit, sometimes referred to as a skip license. If you do not have a skip permit, your skip can be removed without notice and you may also be liable to a fine. Note that if you have space to put your skip on private property (for example in a driveway or yard), no permit is necessary
Skip owners or suppliers who are issued with a permit to put skips in the road are responsible for ensuring that: Skips are positioned on the road so that their longest sides are parallel to the edge of the road and are as near to the edge of the road as is possible. Other regulations that the skip owner or supplier is responsible for adhering to are: Skip permit expiry. Once the skip permit issued by the council has expired, you must remove the skip from the road. The road where the skip was positioned must also be left in a clean and tidy condition.
Overview. Contact your local council for a skip licence if you want to put a skip on a public road. In most areas, skip hire companies are responsible for getting skip licences, also sometimes called skip permits. In some areas you’ll need to do it yourself. You need a licence for: Restrictions. You can’t put a skip on the pavement. You don’t need a skip licence if you’re putting the skip entirely on private land. You may need to put safety lights and markings on or around the skip.