A serum cortisol test may help in the diagnosis of two fairly uncommon medical conditions: Cushing's syndrome and Addison's disease. The test also screens for other diseases that affect your pituitary and adrenal glands. It does so by measuring your blood level of a stress hormone called cortisol. Cortisol is a steroid hormone made by your adrenal glands. It helps your body respond to stress, regulate blood sugar, and fight infections. In most people, cortisol levels are highest in the morning when they wake up and lowest around midnight. Besides a blood test for cortisol, your healthcare provider may test the cortisol levels in your urine or saliva. Your doctor will likely order other blood tests that measure your body's response to certain hormones to help determine the cause of your abnormal cortisol levels.
SHARE. The stress hormone, cortisol, is public health enemy number one. Scientists have known for years that elevated cortisol levels: interfere with learning and memory, lower immune function and bone density, increase weight gain, blood pressure, cholesterol, heart disease... The list goes on and on. 
Cortisol is a steroid hormone produced by the adrenal gland. It is released in response to ACTH (adrenocorticotropic hormone), which is produced by the pituitary gland near the brain. Adrenocorticotropic hormone stimulates the secretion of hormones by the adrenal cortex. There are certain diseases, such as Addison’s disease and Cushing’s disease, which affect the amount of cortisol produced by the adrenal gland. The test is used in the diagnosis of these diseases and as a way to assess the functioning of the adrenal and pituitary glands.
Overview. A cortisol level test uses a blood sample to measure the level of cortisol present in blood. Cortisol is a steroid hormone released by the adrenal gland. The adrenal glands sit atop the kidneys. There are certain diseases, such as Addison’s disease and Cushing’s disease, which affect the amount of cortisol produced by the adrenal gland. The test is used in the diagnosis of these diseases and as a way to assess the functioning of the adrenal and pituitary glands.
Cortisol is a hormone that plays a role in the metabolism of proteins, lipids, and carbohydrates. It affects blood glucose levels, helps maintain blood pressure, and helps regulate the immune system. 
Cortisol & Adrenal Function. Cortisol is a life sustaining adrenal hormone essential to the maintenance of homeostasis. Called “the stress hormone,” cortisol influences, regulates or modulates many of the changes that occur in the body in response to stress including, but not limited to: 1  Blood sugar (glucose) levels. 
Cortisol is produced and secreted by the adrenal glands. Production of the hormone is regulated by the hypothalamus in the brain and by the pituitary gland, a tiny organ located below the brain. When the blood cortisol level falls, the hypothalamus releases corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), which directs the pituitary gland to produce ACTH (adrenocorticotropic hormone). If the adrenal glands are functioning normally, then cortisol levels will rise with the ACTH stimulation. If they are damaged or not functioning properly, then the cortisol level will be low. A longer version of this test (1-3 days) may be performed to help distinguish between adrenal and pituitary insufficiency.
1 A low level of cortisol in the blood can be caused by: 2  Problems that affect the adrenal glands directly, such as Addison's disease or a tuberculosis infection of the adrenal glands. 3  Problems with the pituitary gland that affect the adrenal glands, such as cancer or a head injury. 
Cortisol in Blood. Guide. A cortisol test is done to measure the level of the hormone cortisol in the blood. The cortisol level may show problems with the adrenal glands or pituitary gland. Cortisol is made by the adrenal glands. Cortisol levels go up when the pituitary gland releases another hormone called adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). Cortisol has many functions. It helps the body use sugar (glucose) and fat for energy (metabolism), and it helps the body manage stress.
The cortisol level test is done to check if cortisol production levels are either too high or too low. There are certain diseases, such as Addison’s disease and Cushing’s disease, which affect the amount of cortisol produced by the adrenal gland. The test is used in the diagnosis of these diseases and as a way to assess the functioning of the adrenal and pituitary glands.