Up until 6 months of age, breast or formula milk alone is nutritionally adequate. Thereafter, it is important to start introducing weaning foods after 6 months of age to meet the changing nutritional needs of the growing infant, particularly of iron.
Weaning Your Baby Onto Solids. The term 'to wean' comes from an ancient phrase that means 'to accustom to'. So weaning refers to the period during which an infant gradually becomes accustomed to food other than milk (breast or formula). Up until 6 months of age, breast or formula milk alone is nutritionally adequate. Thereafter, it is important to start introducing weaning foods after 6 months of age to meet the changing nutritional needs of the growing infant, particularly of iron.
Iron-fortified plain rice cereal is recommended as the first weaning food. This can be mixed with breast milk or formula milk to the required consistency. There is no particular order for food introduction. Foods to be introduced should be dependent on the baby’s nutritional needs.
If you wish to give your baby solid food before he is six months old, it's worth talking to your GP or health visitor first. Before six months, there are many foods that aren't suitable for your baby. These include gluten, which is found in grains, cow's milk and eggs.
Suitable Weaning Food. Experts generally agree that from the age of six months, a baby needs something more substantial than milk. However, infants who have not grown to the expected size or lack iron (anaemic) may be weaned earlier, between the age of four and six months.
Waiting until six months to introduce solid foods into your baby's diet will help minimise the risk of her developing adverse reactions to foods and allergies. This is particularly important if you have a family history of allergies such as eczema, asthma or foo
Introducing solid foods to your 6 month – 8 month old baby. If your 6 month – 8 month old baby is just starting solids at this stage, start slowly, preparing a very small amount of whatever food you have chosen to begin with. Nurse or bottle feed your baby first and then offer your little one solids.
Suitable Weaning Foods. Iron-fortified plain rice cereal is recommended as the first weaning food. This can be mixed with breast milk or formula milk to the required consistency. There is no particular order for food introduction.