Blood tests. Blood tests which look for antibodies to the bacteria that cause Lyme disease are the main test. This is known as serology. If antibodies have not developed sufficiently, it is possible for these tests to be negative despite active infection. 
A blood test for antibodies to the bacteria is the preferred test for the diagnosis of Lyme disease. However, if a person has central nervous system symptoms, such as meningitis, then IgM, IgG, and western blot testing may sometimes be performed on cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) . Lyme disease tests are used to determine if a person with characteristic signs and symptoms has been infected by the bacteria Borrelia burgdorferi. The tests detect antibodies produced by the immune system in response to the infection.
Other tests. Three other tests that may be used to diagnose Lyme disease are polymerase chain reaction (PCR), antigen detection and culture testing. They are called “direct” tests because they detect the bacteria, not just your immune response to it. 
Lyme Disease Test. Guide. A Lyme disease test detects antibodies to the Lyme disease bacteria Borrelia burgdorferi in the blood. Lyme disease bacteria are spread by certain kinds of ticks. Lyme disease can be hard to diagnose because its symptoms are similar to those of many other illnesses.
Tests and diagnosis. The variable signs and symptoms of Lyme disease are nonspecific and often are found in other conditions, so diagnosis can be difficult. What's more, the ticks that transmit Lyme disease also can spread other diseases at the same time. 1 Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) test. 2  The test used most often to detect Lyme disease, ELISA detects antibodies to B. burgdorferi. 3  But because it can sometimes provide false-positive results, it's not used as the sole basis for
Why It Is Done. A Lyme disease test is done to diagnose Lyme disease in people who have symptoms of Lyme disease. Symptoms may include: 1  An expanding red rash with a pale center. 2  This is sometimes called a bull's-eye  rash. 3  Extreme tiredness. 4  Fever. 5  Headache and stiff neck. 6  Muscle and joint pain. 
CDC currently recommends a two-step process when testing blood for evidence of antibodies against the Lyme disease bacteria. Both steps can be done using the same blood sample. The first step uses a testing procedure called “EIA” (enzyme immunoassay) or rarely, an “IFA” (indirect immunofluorescence assay). 
Blood Tests. A blood test for Lyme disease measures the level of antibodies in the blood. These antibodies are produced by the immune system in response to the bacterial infection. However, these antibodies may not show up in the blood for five or more week
Laboratory tests are not recommended for patients who do not have symptoms typical of Lyme disease. Just as it is important to correctly diagnose Lyme disease when a patient has it, it is important to avoid misdiagnosis and treatment of Lyme disease when the true cause of the illness is something else. 