The NCI Drug Dictionary contains technical definitions and synonyms for drugs/agents used to treat patients with cancer or conditions related to cancer. Each drug entry includes links to check for clinical trials listed in NCI's List of Cancer Clinical Trials. The search textbox has an autosuggest feature. When you enter three or more characters, a list of up to 10 suggestions will popup under the textbox. Use the arrow keys to move through the suggestions. To select a suggestion, hit the enter key. Using the escape key closes the listbox and puts you back at the textbox. The radio buttons allow you to toggle between having all search items start with or contain the text you entered in the search box
Polyethylene glycol. PEGylation (also often styled pegylation) is the process of both covalent and non-covalent attachment or amalgamation of polyethylene glycol (PEG) polymer chains to molecules and macrostructures, such as a drug, therapeutic protein or vesicle, which is then described as PEGylated (pegylated). PEGylation improves its solubility at physiological pH, increases serum half-life and reduces immunogenicity without compromising activity. Upper images show the whole tetramer, lower images show one of the lysines that is PEGylated.
Bayer Healthcare Pharmaceuticals has a PEGylated peptide in its pipeline for treating type 2 diabetes and a PEGylated version of the antibacterial endopeptidase lysostaphin for treating multidrug–resistant strains of Staphylococcus aureus (17, 18). “And I think that has been where the industry has been going in general when you look at things like Neulasta, PegIntron, and Pegasys.”. PEGylation is usually not required for antibody therapeutics because they are large proteins and therefore cleared slowly by the kidneys.
Doxorubicin is also available in liposome-encapsulated forms as Doxil (pegylated form), Myocet (nonpegylated form), and Caelyx, although these forms must also be given by intravenous injection. It is an anthracycline antitumor antibiotic (note: in this context, this does not mean it is used to treat bacterial infections) closely related to the natural product daunomycin and like all anthracyclines, it works by intercalating DNA, with the most serious adverse effect being life-threatening heart damage.
What does PEGylation mean? A spoken definition of PEGylation. Intro Sound: Typewriter-Tamskp. Licensed under CC:BA 3.0. Outro Music: Groove Groove-Kevin MacLeod (incompetech.com). Licensed under CC:BA 3.0. Intro/Outro Photo:
PEGylated proteins have been used in the textile industry, for example limiting the hydrolysis of wool to just its cuticles, giving the resulting fabric shrink resistance and felt-like properties while maintaining its strength and weight (11). “And I think that has been where the industry has been going in general when you look at things like Neulasta, PegIntron, and Pegasys.”. PEGylation is usually not required for antibody therapeutics because they are large proteins and therefore cleared slowly by the kidneys.
PEGylation is the process of covalent attachment of polyethylene glycol polymer chains to another molecule, normally a drug or therapeutic protein. PEGylation is routinely achieved by incubation of a reactive derivative of PEG with the target molecule. 
1 Pegaspargase (Oncaspar) — PEGylated L-asparaginase for the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia in patients who are hypersensitive to the native unmodified form of L-asparaginase (Enzon, 1994). 2  This drug was recently approved for front line use. PEGylation improves its solubility at physiological pH, increases serum half-life and reduces immunogenicity without compromising activity. Upper images show the whole tetramer, lower images show one of the lysines that is PEGylated.
PEGylation is the process of attaching the strands of the polymer PEG to molecules, most typically peptides, proteins, and antibody fragments, that can improve the safety and efficiency of many therapeutics. PEGylation improves its solubility at physiological pH, increases serum half-life and reduces immunogenicity without compromising activity. Upper images show the whole tetramer, lower images show one of the lysines that is PEGylated.