da DUM | da DUM | da DUM | da DUM | da DUM. That’s the simplest way to define iambic pentameter. Great examples of a iambic pentameter poems would be many of Shakespeare’s sonnets. He often wrote sonnets and whole lines of dialogue from plays in this meter. So a line of poetry written in pentameter has 5 feet, or 5 sets of stressed and unstressed syllables. In basic iambic pentameter, a line would have 5 feet of iambs, which is an unstressed and then a stressed syllable. For example:
An iamb is a metrical unit, or a foot of meter, made up of one unstressed syllable followed by one stressed syllable (alive, forget, a dog). Pentameter refers to the number of iambs in the line (penta is the Greek word for five, as in a pentagon). So there are five iambs in a line of iambic pentammeter. Blank verse is unrhymed iambic pentameter. Here are two examples from Romeo and Juliet.
Iambic Pentameter Definition. In a line of poetry, an iamb is a foot or beat consisting of an unstressed syllable followed by a stressed syllable, or a short syllable followed by a long syllable, according to FreeDictionary.com. An example is the word comPLETE. FreeDictionary.com defines pentameter as a line of verse consisting of five metrical feet. When put together, iambic pentameter may be defined as a line of verse consisting of five metrical feet where each foot consists of an unstressed syllable and a stressed syllable.
Iambic pentameter is a commonly used type of metrical line in traditional English poetry and verse drama. The term describes the rhythm that the words establish in that line, which is measured in small groups of syllables called  feet . A line of iambic pentameter is made up of five such pairs of short/long, or unstressed/stressed, syllables. Iambic rhythms come relatively naturally in English. Iambic pentameter is the most common meter in English poetry; it is used in many of the major English poetic forms, including blank verse, the heroic couplet, and some of the traditional rhymed stanza forms. William Shakespeare used iambic pentameter in his plays and sonnets
Shakespeare composed much of his plays in the form of poetry, often in a meter called iambic pentameter. Even today, iambic pentameter is the most common meter used in English-language poetry. A regular line of the meter contains roughly ten syllables, with heavier stresses falling on every other syllable. Pentameter refers to the number of iambs in the line (penta is the Greek word for five, as in a pentagon). So there are five iambs in a line of iambic pentammeter. Blank verse is unrhymed iambic pentameter. Here are two examples from Romeo and Juliet.
The word iambic refers to the type of foot that is used, known as the iamb, which in English is an unstressed syllable followed by a stressed syllable. A line of iambic pentameter is made up of five such pairs of short/long, or unstressed/stressed, syllables. Iambic rhythms come relatively naturally in English. Iambic pentameter is the most common meter in English poetry; it is used in many of the major English poetic forms, including blank verse, the heroic couplet, and some of the traditional rhymed stanza forms. William Shakespeare used iambic pentameter in his plays and sonnets
The word iambic describes the type of foot that is used (in English, an unstressed syllable followed by a stressed syllable). The word pentameter indicates that a line has five of these feet. These terms originally applied to the quantitative meter of classical poetry. 
Shakespeare's sonnets are written predominantly in a meter called iambic pentameter, a rhyme scheme in which each sonnet line consists of ten syllables. The syllables are divided into five pairs called iambs or iambic feet. Only three of Shakespeare's 154 sonnets do not conform to this structure: Sonnet 99, which has 15 lines; Sonnet 126, which has 12 lines; and Sonnet 145, which is written in iambic tetrameter. _____. How to cite this article: Mabillard, Amanda. Shakespearean Sonnet Basics: Iambic Pentameter and the English Sonnet Style.
Iambic Pentameter. Iambic pentameter is a common rhythmic pattern in poetry. It is characterized by five iambs, or pairs of syllables, in one line. Each iamb includes one unstressed syllable followed by one stressed syllable. Iambic pentameter is known as rising meter because each iamb goes from soft to strong. Blank Verse. Blank verse refers to any unrhymed meter, and Shakespeare often used it in conjunction with iambic pentameter. In Shakespeare's plays, blank verse was often used for important monologues, either for character introspection or for important speeches.