The items that created the civil service system were the decline of  feudalism and the spoils system. The people wanted a say instead of  relying on the president using jobs … for his own party. The federal civil service was created by an Act of Congress in  1871. It was done to prevent the extreme unfairness in the hiring  practices for those who worked for the gov … ernment.
Sec. 158.040. EXCLUSIVITY. A civil service system created under this subchapter and in effect applies to the department to the exclusion of a civil service system in that county created under Subchapter A or another law. 
Development of a professional civil service came several decades later in Great Britain and the United States. Owing doubtless in part to the spoils system so strongly established in the Jacksonian era, the United States lagged far behind other nations in standards of civil service competence and probity. Agitation for reform began shortly after the Civil War. Important changes were made in the structure of the U.S. civil service as a result of the reports issued (1949, 1955) by the two commissions known as the Hoover Commission.
The Pendleton Act renewed funding for the Civil Service Commission and established a three-man commission to run Civil Service whose commissioners were chosen by President Arthur. The Civil Service Commission administered the civil service of the United States federal government. President Hayes' successor, James A. Garfield, advocated Civil Service reform, but was assassinated by a rejected office seeker, Charles J. Guiteau. Guiteau wanted a job via the spoils system, also known as patronage.
In 1871, President Ulysses S. Grant and Congress passed Civil Service reform law that created the first United States Civil Service Commission, that was implemented by President Grant and funded for two years by Congress lasting until 1874. President Hayes' successor, James A. Garfield, advocated Civil Service reform, but was assassinated by a rejected office seeker, Charles J. Guiteau. Guiteau wanted a job via the spoils system, also known as patronage.
The Federal Civil Service is defined as all appointive positions in the executive, judicial, and legislative branches of the Government of the United States, except positions in the uniformed services. (5 U.S.C. § 2101). (This includes executive, legislative and judicial branches of government. This also includes more than 600,000 United States Postal workers .). The U.S. civil service includes the Competitive service and the Excepted service.
The United States Civil Service Commission was created by the Pendleton Civil Service Reform Act, which was passed into law on January 16, 1883. (This includes executive, legislative and judicial branches of government. This also includes more than 600,000 United States Postal workers .). The U.S. civil service includes the Competitive service and the Excepted service.
This act abolished the United States Civil Service Commission and created the U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM), the Federal Labor Relations Authority (FLRA) and the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB). (This includes executive, legislative and judicial branches of government. This also includes more than 600,000 United States Postal workers .). The U.S. civil service includes the Competitive service and the Excepted service.
The United States Civil Service Commission was a government agency of the federal government of the United States which was created to select employees of federal government on merit rather than relationships. President Hayes' successor, James A. Garfield, advocated Civil Service reform, but was assassinated by a rejected office seeker, Charles J. Guiteau. Guiteau wanted a job via the spoils system, also known as patronage.
In the United States, the federal civil service was established in 1871. (This includes executive, legislative and judicial branches of government. This also includes more than 600,000 United States Postal workers .). The U.S. civil service includes the Competitive service and the Excepted service.