Weaning. It is very important for kittens to remain with mom until weaning is completed. The mother is the sole nutritional source for kittens until they're about 4 weeks of age, although weaning often continues until the cuties are between 8 and 10 weeks, according to the ASPCA. Kittens rely on their mother's milk for proper growth and development.
By the time the kittens are 8 to 12 weeks of age, they should be eating solid food and no longer nursing. For most kittens, separation from the mother should be delayed until the kittens are 12 weeks of age, to allow normal socialization and bonding. 
1 The socialization period of kittens normally lasts until 8 weeks of age, which is one reason why 8 weeks is the earliest a kitten can leave its mother. 2  The mother queen’s nursing of her kittens should not end abruptly; weaning can be done safely at around 8 to 10 weeks of age. So, from the nursing point of view, 10 weeks of age, or when the kitten has been weaned, is the safest time for a kitten to leave its mother. If the kitten is still nursing at 12 weeks, something is wrong with the breeder’s strategy.
When the kittens reach four weeks old, you can place them in a separate area for a few hours at a time to reduce their dependency on mother’s milk and her overall presence. Put them in their own special area with a litter box and food and water bowls. Weaning is the process of transitioning kittens from mother’s milk to solid food. During weaning, kittens gradually progress from dependence on a mother’s care to social independence.
Determine when to wean your kitten. The weaning process begins when kittens are around four weeks old. For most kittens, this process is usually completed when they reach eight to ten weeks old. Once a kitten has opened its eyes, is able to focus, and can walk steadily, you can begin the process. 
Weaning. Weaning simply means a baby no longer nurses from its mother and receives nutrition from a non-maternal source. For kittens, the process starts as early as 4 weeks of age, completed by the time they're 2 to 3 months old. It's not a good idea to let kittens go to a new home before the age of 8 weeks. Mother knows best about this natural process -- leave weaning up to her, if possible.
Place the kittens in a separate area away from their mother with their own litter box, food and water bowls for one to two hours several times a day. The time away provides incentive to seek alternatives to their mother's milk and decreases general dependency on the mother. Weaning refers to the process by which a kitten goes from mother's milk to solid food. The process generally begins when a kitten is around four weeks old and should be complete by eight to ten weeks. Weaning can begin earlier in the case of orphaned or hand-fed kittens
Method 1 of 5: Preparing a Kitten for Separation. 1. Expect to separate the kittens from their mother when they are around 12 weeks old. While most kittens are weaned by 8-10 weeks, most experts recommend leaving kittens with their littermates until 12-13 weeks, so they can be properly socialized. 1. Start weaning the kitten off of her mother’s milk at around 4 weeks of age. Kittens need to be weaned off mother’s milk and onto solid foods before adoption both for their health and to avoid bad habits like “wool sucking,” where cat’s chew and suck on things like fabric.