The Epstein-Barr virus, also called EBV, is an extremely common virus that infects most people at one time or another during their lifetimes. Epstein-Barr virus infection generally causes a minor cold-like or flu-like illness, but, in some cases, there may be no symptoms of infection. In adolescents and young adults, the Epstein-Barr virus can cause mononucleosis, which is a more serious illness.
Infectious mononucleosis, also called “mono,” is a contagious disease. Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is the most common cause of infectious mononucleosis, but other viruses can also cause this disease. It is common among teenagers and young adults, especially college students. At least 25% of teenagers and young adults who get infected with EBV will develop infectious mononucleosis.
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), a widespread human herpes virus, can cause mononucleosis — but usually it doesn't. In fact, most EBV infections aren't noticeable, even when they're most active in your body. By age 35, almost everyone has antibodies to EBV, indicating past infection.
Epstein-Barr is the virus that causes mononucleosis. You might know this disease better by its nickname, mono.. It's also called the  kissing disease because of one way you can spread it to someone else. Even though Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) isn't a household name, you've probably been infected without knowing it.
Infection with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is common and usually occurs in childhood or early adulthood. EBV is the cause of infectious mononucleosis (also termed  mono ), an illness associated with fever, sore throat, swollen lymph nodes in the neck, and sometimes an enlarged spleen.
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), a widespread human herpes virus, can cause mononucleosis — but usually it doesn't. In fact, most EBV infections aren ... In that age group, at least a quarter of infections cause mononucleosis — a disease that features fatigue, headache, fever, sore throat ...
Epstein Barr’s Disease is characterized by long bouts of debilitating exhaustion, general body aches and severe susceptibility to infection, Epstein Barr's Disease is also commonly misdiagnosed as a psychosomatic or depression disorder, and initially treated by prescription of anti-depressant medication.