For example, the AKC recognizes 1 Beagle breed in 2 varieties: 13 inches in height (33 cm) & between 13 and 15 inches in height (33-38 cm). Other registries recognize 1 variety of the breed which is 13-16 inches in height (33-40.6 cm).
Contrary to popular belief, small size doesn't necessarily an apartment dog make — plenty of small dogs are too high-energy and yappy for life in a high-rise. Being quiet, low energy, fairly calm indoors, and polite with the other residents, are all good qualities in an apartment dog.
The American Standard has two size varieties 13 inches and under, or over 13 to 15 inches. Any dog over 15 inches in America can be disqualified from the showring. The last reference to the Pocket Beagle I can located in a reliable reference is in the 1960's.
Small, compact, and hardy, Beagles are active companions for kids and adults alike. Canines in this dog breed are merry and fun loving, but being hounds, they can also be stubborn and require patient, creative training techniques.
Any Beagle that is substantially smaller than the AKC standard is not seen as its own breed, he is only seen as a dog that has a major fault: he is too small to fit the breed standard and this can bring about a variety of health issues.
If you plan on showing your Beagle, check with the AKC for more information and to see if your Beagle qualifies. The American Kennel Club (AKC) is a nonprofit organization that's devoted to the advancement of purebred dogs.
Beagle physique. The Beagle is a well-muscled, small-to-almost-medium-sized dog with a keen sense of smell and a wanderlust that can lead him into trouble. He comes in two sizes under 13 inches tall and 13-15 inches tall. Weight for the smaller dogs is 18-20 pounds; for the larger dogs is 20-30 pounds.
Beagles use their noses to hunt down scents for a number of purposes. But if you want your Beagle to participate in conformation shows, like those you see on TV, it will have to match up the AKC breed standard.
Size: Beagles come in two sizes: the 13-inch Beagle (no taller than 13 inches at the withers) and the 15-inch Beagle (between 13 and 15 inches at the withers). Head: A Beagle's skull should be fairly long, with a slight dome at the back part of the head. The skull should be relatively broad and full.