The term race refers to the concept of dividing people into populations or groups on the basis of various sets of physical characteristics (which usually result from genetic ancestry). Significance. Ethnicity connotes shared cultural traits and a shared group history. Multiracial vs. Multicultural. In most cases, race is unitary — i.e., a person belongs to one race — but may claim ethnic membership in multiple groups. For example, Barack Obama is racially black in spite of his mother being caucasian.
Mexico has a Native, Spanish, AND French, but many other ethnic groups live in parts of Mexico. I just found out that Brazil has the largest Italian population outside of Italy in another question on Y/A. Likewise with Americans. Caucasian. Americans come from every country on earth. If the French are an ethnic group (as you mentioned in your example) then a caucasian American might be grouped with Irish, German, British, or even French, you name it.
No. Caucasian is a euphemism for White and is a race. Races are  much broader than ethnicities and refer to general gradations in  skin color as opposed to nations or region … s of origin, which is  what ethnicities refer to. These groups are also divided into a number of subgroups based on ancestry. The group called Caucasian originally described people from the Caucasus region of Southwest Russia, Georgia and Armenia and subsequently became used to identify anyone from Europea
By Hope Yen, Associated Press. For the first time, America's racial and ethnic minorities now make up about half of the under-5 age group, the government said Thursday. It's a historic shift that shows how young people are at the forefront of sweeping changes by race and class. 
A Caucasian American could be from a number of ethnic backgrounds, I suppose. I would imagine predominately Western Europe. If the French are an ethnic group (as you mentioned in your example) then a caucasian American might be grouped with Irish, German, British, or even French, you name it. It's really hard to define the term ethnic group.
For other uses, see Ethnic groups in Europe. The Caucasian race (also Caucasoid or occasionally Europid) is a taxon historically used to describe the physical or biological type of some or all of the populations of Europe, North Africa, the Horn of Africa, Western Asia, Central Asia, and South Asia. The United States National Library of Medicine often used the term Caucasian as a race in the past. However, it later discontinued such usage in favor of the more narrow geographical term European, which traditionally only applied to a subset of Caucasoids.
2. being a member of an ethnic group, esp. a group that is a minority within a larger society: ethnic Chinese in San Francisco. 3. belonging to or deriving from the cultural traditions of a people or country: ethnic dances. 4. Obs. pagan; heathen. 5. a member of an ethnic group. ethnic. adj. 1. (Anthropology & Ethnology) relating to or characteristic of a human group having racial, religious, linguistic, and certain other traits in common. 2. (Anthropology & Ethnology) relating to the classification of mankind into groups, esp on the basis of racial characteristics.
Neither is Caucasian an ethnic grouping such as Italian, Mexican or Anglo-Saxon. So Caucasian is in essence a label used to justify the hierarchy of race that is prevalent in western cultures to the detriment of the non white peoples. Now the human genome has been traced...we are all the same race. So, a Caucasian is an ethnic group, not a race. I just read that the sanctimonious bots at YA have deleted the term Neg roid, as socially unacceptable. I suppose it matters not that the term is an accepted scientific term. Our race is: Homo Sapien Sapien
The Rainbow state is the only state in which Asian Americans or Pacific Islanders are the largest racial/ethnic group. Of the state’s 1.4 million residents, just 22.8% are non-Hispanic white, but nearly half (46.1%) are Asian American or Pacific Islander. 