Answer by Nimsy. Confidence votes 33. Foods That Contain Boron Include: Cabbage contains 145 ppm (parts per million) boron on a dry-weight basis. Dandelion contains 125 ppm boron meaning that just ten grams (just under 7 tablespoons) of dried dandelion shoots could provide more than 1 milligram of boron. 
Fruits, vegetables, and nuts are excellent sources of boron. Avocados are particularly rich in this element and contain approximately 2 mg per serving. Other excellent sources include almonds, dates, apples, green leafy vegetables, and raisins. A typical American diet provides between 1.5 and 3 mg of boron per day, but your daily dose of boron will increase effortlessly when you increase your daily consumption of fruits and vegetables.
Boron-Rich Foods for Your Bones. Many plant-based foods offer decent to wonderful amounts of boron. Some of the best include: chickpeas, almonds, beans, vegetables, bananas, walnuts, avocado, broccoli, prunes, oranges, red grapes, apples, raisins, pears, and many other beans and legumes. Forget the beef! Lentils are one of the best foods for your health (not to mention your budget). They’re especially great for your bones since they contain iron, protein, B vitamins, and plentiful amounts of boron! They’re also a good source of magnesium, potassium, and are fat and cholesterol-free.
Here are some foods rich in boron: Many plant-based foods offer decent to wonderful amounts of boron. Some of the best include: chickpeas, almonds, beans, vegetables, bananas, walnuts, avocado, broccoli, prunes, oranges, red grapes, apples, raisins, pears, and many other beans and legumes. Forget the beef! Lentils are one of the best foods for your health (not to mention your budget). They’re especially great for your bones since they contain iron, protein, B vitamins, and plentiful amounts of boron! They’re also a good source of magnesium, potassium, and are fat and cholesterol-free.
Boron is a mineral that is found in food and the environment. People take boron supplements as medicine. Boron is used for building strong bones, treating osteoarthritis, as an aid for building muscles and increasing testosterone levels, and for improving thinking skills and muscle coordination. 
(up to 2.7 mg boron/kg) and dried fruits such as prunes and raisins (at up to 27 mg boron/kg). A small child weighing 13.2 kg would need. to eat more than sixty times the average daily amount of these foods each day to reach the TDI, as shown in the table below. Children: Older children are also able to eat nuts, such as peanuts and almonds, which have boron contents of up to 23 mg boron/kg. The table below shows. that the median child aged 1-14 years and weighing almost 25 kg would need to eat more than 80 times the average daily consumption of. these foods to reach the TDI.
Boron Rich Foods – Sources of Boron. Boron occurs in various forms in fruits, vegetables and nuts. The amount of boron is rather low (as indicated in the chart below), so these food sources are not practical sources of the recommended amount of boron.
Some of the richest sources of boron are in dried fruits such as raisins, prunes and nuts. These foods have nearly a full day's supply in just one serving. The good news is the other health benefits of these foods have driven processors of healthful foods to include more of them in their products. But some savvy crafters of wellness foods are aware of boron’s benefits and starting to add the versatile mineral to their foods.
Boron. To ensure you have enough boron in your diet consume a variety from among the following food sources: almonds, walnuts, avocados, broccoli, potatoes, pears, prunes, honey, oranges, onions, chick peas, carrots, beans, bananas, red grapes, red apples and raisins. According to Health Vitamins Guide, the best sources for B vitamins include: spinach, green peas, mushrooms, eggs, kale, broccoli, poultry, shellfish, potatoes and tomatoes. Benefits include helping to break down carbohydrates, fats and proteins into energy, health of eyes, skin and hair and maintaining muscle tone.