Starting a new job can be stressful. On the one hand, you have to learn the ropes and adapt to an unfamiliar work culture; on the other, you strive to make a good impression with your colleagues and bosses. It can be tough trying to balance being an eager learner and being likeable as a co-worker. 
1 Nerves about your first day(s) on a new job are normal, but don't let them get the better of you. 2  If you happen to slip up, simply explain that you're nervous and try again. 3  Most people will understand. 4  Get to know the area around your workplace, too. Adjusting to a new job can be a daunting challenge, whether you took the new job by choice or out of necessity. Pretty soon, you'll know the new people, the new work, and the new place.
2. There’s nothing more nerve-wracking than a job interview—until, of course, you’ve actually landed the job and you’re headed to your first day of work. Not to worry: We’ve got your guide to making a great first impression. 
And that's not a bad thing, especially if you're new to a job. During the first few months in your new role and workplace, you are technically on probation. To hold on to your job, you have to make the right first impression and get the approval of your peers and management. Your new co-workers are still evaluating you, and you'll want to be on your best behavior. Don't overindulge or pontificate about the latest political or religious issues. 4. Take on the dirty work. If there's a project or task no one wants to tackle, volunteer to do it and give it all you've got.
When you start in a new department or organization, learning who everybody is – and what they do – can be critical to your success on the job. This is true for the team with which you'll be working directly, and also for other key players who might hold more power than their positions seem to indicate. To help you start building competence in your new role, create a learning plan that addresses any skill gaps that may exist. As a first step, complete a personal SWOT Analysis, and use it to address your strengths and weaknesses with respect to your new job.
Do: Remember Why You Took the Job in the First Place. Before you go to bed the night before your first day, take a few minutes to remember why you accepted this new job. Maybe it’s your dream job, and you couldn’t be more excited to get going. Maybe it’s your first job, and you’re doing it for the experience. In any case, it doesn’t hurt to approach the first day of a new job similarly; with as much preparation the night before as possible. The morning of your new gig is sure to be a stressful one, so help yourself out by doing as much as you can ahead of time.
It's up to you to get things started on the right foot. When you're the new kid on the block, your first priority is to learn what's going on and earn the trust and respect of your colleagues. You don't want to be viewed as a brown-noser, but you don't want your manager and colleagues to think you're a slacker, either. Here are a few things millennials and new employees of any age should do when starting a new job : 1. Ask a lot of questions. Your new co-workers are still evaluating you, and you'll want to be on your best behavior. Don't overindulge or pontificate about the latest political or religious issues. 4. Take on the dirty work. If there's a project or task no one wants to tackle, volunteer to do it and give it all you've got.
Congratulations! You’ve finally secured a new job, and now you want to start off on the right foot, making a positive impression on your new boss and colleagues. You want to be careful not to make any career-ending mistakes. 
Here are 10 ways to ensure that you start your new job on the right foot. 1. Ask your new manager for a meeting. During this meeting ask about your manager's expectations of you and the job, timelines, measurements for success, key players you should meet in the organization, and what pitfalls to avoid. 2. Observe co-workers.