Frontier’s DSL prices, either with telephone service, or on a stand-alone basis, are significantly higher than are Verizon’s. For example, the entry-level Frontier plan has a nominal price that is 100% higher than Verizon’s. However, when considering the per Mbps price, Frontier’s price is 160% higher. “Frontier’s advertised DSL speeds are generally much lower than those available from Verizon and other carriers. Based on a location-based search of Frontier DSL service offerings, it appears that Frontier’s most prevalent DSL speeds are 3 Mbps and 768 kbps (for download),” Roycroft said.
Subject to credit approval & may require a deposit. Comcast's Triple Play runs $99 per month for the first 12 months, the from months 12 to 24, you'll pay $114.99 (it's a staggered two year contract), if you break that contract or downgrade, you'll pay $129.99 per month. Speeds are much faster than Frontier DSL. Here are some terms: Requires subscription to Digital Starter Cable, Performance High-Speed Internet and Comcast Digital Voice® Unlimited service. AFTER 12 MONTHS, MONTHLY CHARGE GOES TO $114.99 FOR MONTHS 13-24. Here is Frontier's fine print: FiOS TRIPLE PLAY $40 OFF PER MONTH-EXCLUSIVE ONLINE OFFER: $40 monthly discount offer available to Verizon customers who order a new FiOS Triple/Quad Play bundle and subscribe to a Home Media DVR or DVR online.
It is also the biggest cable internet provider in the United States. FiOS is a fiber-optic internet service by Verizon, which is the United States' largest fiber-optic internet provider. This comparison focuses on Comcast's internet services in relation to Verizon's FiOS service. Like Comcast, Verizon's fastest high-speed internet packages can be expensive. This chart from the Wall Street Journal shows that Verizon FiOS generally has slightly faster speeds than it promises in advertising, while Comcast under-delivers.
Comcast vs Dish: Dish Network’s basic setup is 120 channels for 24.99 per month for 12 months, then $40+ per month after the first year for 12 more months (you are looking at a 24 month contract). Reception can be bad during certain weather conditions. Here is Frontier's fine print: FiOS TRIPLE PLAY $40 OFF PER MONTH-EXCLUSIVE ONLINE OFFER: $40 monthly discount offer available to Verizon customers who order a new FiOS Triple/Quad Play bundle and subscribe to a Home Media DVR or DVR online.
Cable lines carry your signal to you – and to as many as 500 of your neighbors. WHAT IT MEANS. With FiOS from Frontier Communications, your lightning fast speeds are consistent, no matter when you’re online. Peak usage hours slow the cable network to a crawl. Frontier vs. Mediacom. Call today, and let’s get started – we’ll help you find the perfect plan for your home! Limited-time offer for new Internet customers, including current voice-only customers. Must subscribe to a qualifying package of residential phone and High-Speed Internet services.
Comcast vs. FiOS. Diffen › Technology › Internet. Fiber-optic internet services like Verizon FiOS have the potential to be faster than cable internet services like Comcast; however, both companies currently offer the average user typically comparable speeds in package deals that are similarly priced. Like Comcast, Verizon's fastest high-speed internet packages can be expensive. This chart from the Wall Street Journal shows that Verizon FiOS generally has slightly faster speeds than it promises in advertising, while Comcast under-delivers.
We have Frontier for cable and Internet. My internet at home is faster than it is at work so I can't complain about that. But my rates went up a boatload since Frontier took over, so if we can ever get through the backlog of shows saved on the DVR, we will probably switch to Comcast. It's slightly cheaper than some of the other options, and the service is about the same. We've had a few issues with one if our cable boxes, but the service has been solid. I also work from home and find the internet speed more than adequate.
1 Private —Unlike Comcast, we won't offer to use your home Wi-Fi connection as a public hotspot. 2 With Frontier, your connection is yours and yours alone. 2  Reliable —Talk to a U.S. customer service team member EVERY time you pick up the phone. 3  We’re proud to be 100% U.S.-based and a top employer of military vets. High-Speed Internet. We have the speed you need—no matter how you and your family use the Internet. Play games, video chat and stream movies—all for as low as $19.99 per month with qualifying phone service.