brachiocephalic vein either of the two veins that drain blood from the head, neck, and upper limbs, and unite to form the superior vena cava. Each is formed at the root of the neck by union of the ipsilateral internal jugular and subclavian veins. Most of the veins of the body are systemic veins that convey blood from the whole body (except the lungs) to the right atrium of the heart. Each vein is a macroscopic structure enclosed in three layers of different kinds of tissue homologous with the layers
The internal jugular vein collects blood from the brain, the outside of the face and the neck. It runs down the inside of the neck outside the internal and common carotid arteries and unites with the subclavian vein to form the innominate vein. External jugular vein: The more superficial of the two jugular veins situated on each side of the neck. The other is the internal jugular vein. They drain blood from the head, brain, face and neck and convey it toward the heart. The external jugular vein collects most of the blood from the outside of the skull and the deep parts of the face
Internal jugular vein. The internal jugular vein is a major blood vessel that drains blood from important body organs and parts, such as the brain, face, and neck. Anatomically, there are two of these veins that lie along each side of the neck. Because of its superficial location (near the outside of the body), the internal jugular vein is quite susceptible to injury, trauma, or damage. It also lacks protection from strong structures, like bones or cartilages. When blood flow to the vein is impeded or affected, shock or death will ultimately occur
The internal jugular vein drains most of the cerebral veins and outer portions of the face, while the external jugular vein drains most of the outer structures of the head, including the scalp and deep portions of the face. The external jugular connects at the base of the throat with the internal jugular, through which the blood continues onward to the heart.
At this point it ... Click to read more below. The internal carotid artery enters the skull and supplies the anterior part of the brain (via cerebral branches), the eye and its appendages, and sends branches to the forehead and nose. It has many curvatures in different parts of its path
The internal jugular vein is a paired vein collecting the blood from the brain, the superficial parts of the face, and the neck. An internal jugular vein is a type of jugular vein. It begins in the posterior compartment of the jugular foramen, at the base of the skull. It is somewhat dilated at its origin, and this dilatation is called the superior bulb. It also has a common trunk into which drains the anterior branch of the retromandibular vein, the facial vein, and the lingual vein.
The internal jugular vein is the continuation of the sigmoid sinus. It begins in the posterior compartment of the jugular foramen, at the base of the skull. It is somewhat dilated at its origin, and this dilatation is called the superior bulb. It also has a common trunk into which drains the anterior branch of the retromandibular vein, the facial vein, and the lingual vein.
Internal Carotid Artery. The internal carotid artery enters the skull and supplies the anterior part of the brain (via cerebral branches), the eye and its appendages, and sends branches to the forehead and nose. Click to read more below