| Photo courtesy of Warren Gretz, NREL. Radiant heating systems supply heat directly to the floor or to panels in the wall or ceiling of a house. The systems depend largely on radiant heat transfer -- the delivery of heat directly from the hot surface to the people and objects in the room via infrared radiation. 
1 Expect to pay about $6-$16 a square foot for a professionally installed hydronic (hot water) radiant floor heating system, or $9,000-$22,500 or more for a 1,500 square foot home, depending on local rates, the number of temperature zones and the overall size of the system. What should be included: Additional costs: 1  Hydronic systems typically use a boiler to heat water and a pump to circulate hot water through plastic pipes, which brings the heat to the surface of the floor. 2  A video by Krell Distributing in New York explains hydronic systems.
You can install radiant heat systems either above or below the subfloor. Ideally, it’s placed above the subfloor so the heat source is actually heating up the flooring material and not the subfloor. In a retrofit, this can raise the floor a couple of inches, creating problems with appliances and doors. You can install the heating elements right against the floor. With a hydronic system, you can attach aluminum plates beneath the floor to spread and store heat. Whether the system is electric or hydronic, install insulation beneath it.
1 This Old House estimates the cost of electric radiant heat in an average-size bathroom at $400-$700 (including new tile) for a thin electric mat installed in thinset cement and controlled by a timer-thermostat, and says it is not a difficult do-it-yourself job for those who know how to set floor tiles. What should be included: Additional costs: 1  Hydronic systems typically use a boiler to heat water and a pump to circulate hot water through plastic pipes, which brings the heat to the surface of the floor. 2  A video by Krell Distributing in New York explains hydronic systems.
Back to Top How much should a typical radiant system cost? On average, a radiant heating system will typically cost between $6-$12 per square foot to install. The variance in price is mainly affected by the amount of separate zoned areas and the overall size of the system. However, on average a typical forced-air system will run 10%-25% cheaper than a radiant heating system. The main reason for this is the radiant floor system is more labor intensive
Shopping for radiant floor heating: 1  If concrete is added to an existing floor when installing hot water radiant heat, it might be necessary to reinforce the floor supports. 2  The additional cost will depend on the amount of additional support needed, but if this is required be sure it's included in all cost estimates. What should be included: Additional costs: 1  Hydronic systems typically use a boiler to heat water and a pump to circulate hot water through plastic pipes, which brings the heat to the surface of the floor. 2  A video by Krell Distributing in New York explains hydronic systems.
There are three types of radiant heating: electric radiant floors, hydronic floors and radiant air floors. The cost to install a radiant heating system is the highest with electric radiant floors and lowest with hydronic floors. Radiant air floors don't generate as much heat and tend to be used more in commercial projects than residential. Hydronic systems use PEX plastic tubing to pump hot water underneath the flooring. 
Hydronic Radiant Floor Heating Systems. When you select a radiant floor heating (RFH) system, you'll choose either electric or hydronic. The amount of power it takes to heat an entire house with an electric RFH system isn't cost-effective, so if you're heating your whole house, then hydronic is the way to go. The first thing you should know is that it'll cost you more upfront than a standard furnace unit. A forced-air system for a 2,000 square foot (610 square meter) home will cost about $3,800 to $4,500. A hydronic radiant floor heating unit with a boiler will run $7,000 to $13,000. The RFH system is more efficient though, as much as 40 percent, and lasts longer
Typical costs: 1  Expect to pay about $6-$16 a square foot for a professionally installed hydronic (hot water) radiant floor heating system, or $9,000-$22,500 or more for a 1,500 square foot home, depending on local rates, the number of temperature zones and the overall size of the system. What should be included: Additional costs: 1  Hydronic systems typically use a boiler to heat water and a pump to circulate hot water through plastic pipes, which brings the heat to the surface of the floor. 2  A video by Krell Distributing in New York explains hydronic systems.