Non-mast cell histamine is found in several tissues, including the brain, where it functions as a neurotransmitter. Another important site of histamine storage and release is the enterochromaffin-like (ECL) cell of the stomach. Histamine base, obtained as a mineral oil mull, melts at 83-84 °C. Hydrochloride and phosphorus salts form white hygroscopic crystals and are easily dissolved in water or ethanol, but not in ether. In aqueous solution, histamine exists in two tautomeric forms: Nπ-H-histamine and Nτ-H-histamine.
Effects in the Nervous System. Histamine acts as a neurotransmitter within the central nervous system. The (histaminergic) neurons that secrete histmine are localized in small regions of the hypothalamus, but those neurons send axons widely throughout the brain. Histamine and Histamine Receptors. Histamine is a small molecule derived from the decarboxylation of the amino acid histidine. It is destroyed by the enzyme diamine oxidase (histiminase), which is also involved in the metabolism of other bioactive amines.
Acetylcholine is also used as a neurotransmitter in the autonomic nervous system, both as an internal transmitter for the sympathetic nervous system and as the final product released by the parasympathetic nervous system. Inside the brain acetylcholine functions as a neuromodulator —a chemical that alters the way other brain structures process information rather than a chemical used to transmit information from point to point. The brain contains a number of cholinergic areas, each with distinct functions.
The Role Acetylcholine and Histamine in Sleep. The nucleus basalis magnocellularis, which is located in the forebrain, is a major source of cholinergic projections to neocortex, amygdala and medium septum-banda diagonalis complex. 
As part of an immune response to foreign pathogens, histamine is produced by basophils and by mast cells found in nearby connective tissues. Histamine increases the permeability of the capillaries to white blood cells and some proteins, to allow them to engage pathogens in the infected tissues. Histamine base, obtained as a mineral oil mull, melts at 83-84 °C. Hydrochloride and phosphorus salts form white hygroscopic crystals and are easily dissolved in water or ethanol, but not in ether. In aqueous solution, histamine exists in two tautomeric forms: Nπ-H-histamine and Nτ-H-histamine.
Mast cells. Most histamine in the body is generated in granules in mast cells and in white blood cells called basophils and eosinophils. Mast cells are especially numerous at sites of potential injury — the nose, mouth, and feet, internal body surfaces, and blood vessels. Histamine base, obtained as a mineral oil mull, melts at 83-84 °C. Hydrochloride and phosphorus salts form white hygroscopic crystals and are easily dissolved in water or ethanol, but not in ether. In aqueous solution, histamine exists in two tautomeric forms: Nπ-H-histamine and Nτ-H-histamine.
Release of acetylcholine, norepinephrine and serotonin are all controlled in part by histamine levels. Injection of histamine into the hypothalamus increased metabolism of norepinephrine and serotonin, while dopamine metabolism increased in some places and not in others. When this happens, it stimulates vomiting. Some foods contain serotonin, but it does not cross the blood brain barrier and thus does not affect brain chemistry. Mast cells contain dopamine, a hormone and neurotransmitter. This chemical is most often associated with reward seeking behavior, including addiction behaviors.
Acetylcholine is the neurotransmitter used at the neuromuscular junction —in other words, it is the chemical that motor neurons of the nervous system release in order to activate muscles. This property means that drugs that affect cholinergic systems can have very dangerous effects ranging from paralysis to convulsions. Inside the brain acetylcholine functions as a neuromodulator —a chemical that alters the way other brain structures process information rather than a chemical used to transmit information from point to point. The brain contains a number of cholinergic areas, each with distinct functions.
Acute CCK2 receptor blockade inhibits gastrin-evoked but not histamine-induced acid secretion. Studies both in vivo/in situ and in vitro have suggested that while acetylcholine seems capable of activating parietal cells, it does not affect histamine secretion from ECL cells. Gastric acid secretion is under nervous and hormonal control. Gastrin, the major circulating stimulus of acid secretion, probably does not stimulate the parietal cells directly but acts to mobilize histamine from the ECL cells in the oxyntic mucosa. Histamine stimulates the parietal cells to secrete HCl.