KESAR PULAO (A famous rice of India with mixture of Saffron and Dry Fruits). Saffron is highly used by royal Arabs in the form of perfumes and attars. Evidence of different kinds assures that saffron is an irreplaceable ingredient in the Hispanic-Arabic cooking. Saffron has a number of uses. Saffron is very popular as a spice in all international cuisines. It is an indispensable ingredient in most Mughlai dishes and erstwhile Mughlai chefs used this herb liberally in rich concoctions they prepared for the royal table.
Our panel of health writers. Yes, it is safe to add saffron (kesar or zafran) to milk. But, as with any herb or spice, use saffron in moderation, especially when you're pregnant. Studies show that saffron may reduce blood pressure and mood swings. In large doses, saffron can act as a uterine stimulant and could cause contractions. You may find elders advise you to drink a glass of saffron milk every day to give your baby fair skin. But, there is no evidence to support this belief. What you eat when you are pregnant has no influence on the colour of your baby's skin. Your baby's complexion depends purely on you and your husband's genes.
In ancient Chinese civilization Kesar was used to impart aroma to wine. Originally, Kashmiri Kesar was also used as a dying agent. It is said that the famous Egyptian beauty, Cleopatra used to regularly bath with milk mixed with kesar to enhance her beautiful skin and also to improve her love life. The Kesar plant grows upto a height of about 40cm during the summers, but the flowers begin to bloom and produce their stigmas only in the autumn. The flowers are beautifully colored in rich purple. It is not the flower but the three tongued stigma of about 30 mm in height that provides us with the rich spice of Kesar.
Saffron, zaffran or Kesar, as it is variedly known is actually the stigma of the saffron crocus flower. It is a member of the Iridaceae family of plants. The presence of the substance called picrocrocin and safranal lends to Kesar its characteristic smell and flavor. The Kesar plant grows upto a height of about 40cm during the summers, but the flowers begin to bloom and produce their stigmas only in the autumn. The flowers are beautifully colored in rich purple. It is not the flower but the three tongued stigma of about 30 mm in height that provides us with the rich spice of Kesar.
Having a pinch of Kesar or saffron with milk is beneficial for solving digestive problems during pregnancy. Let us have a look at how and when you should have Kesar during pregnancy. Kesar or saffron is one of the most expensive spices in the world that has immense therapeutic properties. It has high nutritional content due to the presence of Thiamine and Riboflavin. This medicinal herb is believed to be very beneficial for pregnant women. 
It has a variety of uses, namely the following: Kesar is used as a flavoring agent in food and beverages. It is also used as a spice while cooking food. Certain dishes, for instance, the various styles of Biriyani cannot be cooked in the absence of this essential spice. Kesar is known to have medicinal attributes. The Kesar plant grows upto a height of about 40cm during the summers, but the flowers begin to bloom and produce their stigmas only in the autumn. The flowers are beautifully colored in rich purple. It is not the flower but the three tongued stigma of about 30 mm in height that provides us with the rich spice of Kesar.
Saffron (pronounced /ˈsaefrən/ ˈsæfrən /or/) ˈsaefrɒn ˈsæfrɒn is a spice derived from the Flower of, crocus sativus commonly known as the. saffron crocus The styles and stigmas, called threads, are collected and dried to be used mainly as a seasoning and colouring agent in food. Saffron, long among the world's most costly spices by weight, is native to Greece or Southwest Asia and was first cultivated in Greece.
Saffron (pronounced /ˈsaefrən/ ˈsæfrən /or/) ˈsaefrɒn ˈsæfrɒn is a spice derived from the Flower of, crocus sativus commonly known as the. Saffron crocus saffron crocus grows–to 20 (30–cm 8) 12 in and bears up to, four flowers each with three vivid, crimson stigmas which are the distal end of. a carpel The styles and stigmas, called threads, are collected and dried to be used mainly as a seasoning and colouring agent in food. Saffron, long among the world's most costly spices by weight, is native to Greece or Southwest Asia and was first cultivated in Greece.
Kesar is an Indian television serial that aired on STAR Plus, based on the life of a young girl from rural Punjab named Kesar. Kesar concluded on 31 May 2007 but is currently being repeated from the beginning on the TV Asia channel in USA. Kesar (Nandini Singh) is a traditional Punjabi girl living with her large extended family in a village. She gets an offer of marriage from the wealthy Mallya family, living in a big city.