This report describes the typical weather at the Palma de Mallorca Airport (Palma de Mallorca, Spain) weather station over the course of an average year. It is based on the historical records from 1974 to 2012. Earlier records are either unavailable or unreliable. Over the course of the year typical wind speeds vary from 0 mph to 16 mph (calm to moderate breeze), rarely exceeding 24 mph (strong breeze). The highest average wind speed of 7 mph (light breeze) occurs around April 7, at which time the average daily maximum wind speed is 16 mph (moderate breeze).
Majorca Yearly Weather Summary. With mild winter and somewhat hot summer Majorca enjoys Mediterranean weather. During summer, from May till September, the average high temperature in Majorca stands around 26 °C. August, with more than 30 °C of average high, is considered as the hottest month of the year. However, winter sees much enjoyable weather as the temperature hardly falls below 9 °C in the season. It starts in June and continues its journey till September in Majorca. Throughout summer, the island remains hot, as the average highest temperature stands at 27°C at the beginning of the season and as the period progresses it climbs in the following months and rises to 30°C.
The weather in Majorca is great all year round. The Majorca climate allows temperatures that are still comfortable in mid-winter-dropping down to around 16 degrees C on average. In the last 21 years the coldest snap so far was recorded in Palma, Majorca's capital, where temperatures went as low as -6 degrees C. In the summer months you can expect the climate to get alot warmer with averages of around 33 degrees C in August. In fact you can expect on average to experience around 7 days during July and other during August where the temperature exceeds 32
Majorca Yearly Weather Summary. With mild winter and somewhat hot summer Majorca enjoys Mediterranean weather. During summer, from May till September, the average high temperature in Majorca stands around 26 °C. August, with more than 30 °C of average high, is considered as the hottest month of the year. However, winter sees much enjoyable weather as the temperature hardly falls below 9 °C in the season
Following on from a hot and sunny summer, Majorca, Balearic Islands begins to cool down in September, when the summer season comes to a close. At this time of the year, the average temperature starts off at 23-24°C at the beginning of the month and gradually drops until it reaches 20°C in the final few days. During September, the daily lows range slightly from 15°C to 18°C, dropping below 11°C or exceeding 22°C very rarely – only one day out of every ten.
Taking a closer look at Majorca's weather and Majorca temperatures, this Mediterranean island has between 450mm and 650mm of precipitation/rainfall annually. Most of it falls in autumn, 40% of it to be exact between the months of September and November; with only 25% falling in the spring months between March and May. Majorca weather in March maximum 16°C, minimum 7°C. Majorca weather in April maximum 17°C, minimum 8°C. Mallorca weather in May maximum 20°C, minimum 12°C. Mallorca weather in June maximum 24°C, minimum 16°C. Mallorca weather in July maximum 27°C, minimum 19°C. Mallorca weather in August maximum 28
Early September in Mallorca is a lot hotter than late September when the weather begins to change and the winter rains start to make an appearance. Average temperatures in Palma during September range between 20 and 27°C (68 to 81°F). Sea temperatures are nice and warm with a monthly average of 22 degrees Celsius (72 degrees Fahrenheit). The weather in Mallorca during September is still quite warm and the water temperatures are perfect for swimming and water sports. As it is near the end of summer and peak season is coming to a close, September is the perfect time to look for cheap flights to Mallorca.
As the month progresses, the cloud coverage increases, starting at 29% on September 1 st and increasing to 32% on September 11 th, 35% on September 21 st and 37% on September 30 th. The average sea temperature is very warm at 25°C, thanks to the waters retaining the heat from summer. At this time of the year, the average temperature starts off at 23-24°C at the beginning of the month and gradually drops until it reaches 20°C in the final few days. During September, the daily lows range slightly from 15°C to 18°C, dropping below 11°C or exceeding 22°C very rarely – only one day out of every ten.
Earlier records are either unavailable or unreliable. Palma de Mallorca has a cold semi-arid steppe climate. The area within 25 mi of this station is covered by oceans and seas (47%), croplands (30%), and shrublands (23%). 