Background. Relative humidity is a measure of the water vapour content of the air at a given temperature. The amount of moisture in the air is compared with the maximum amount that the air could contain at the same temperature and expressed as a percentage. The graph to the right shows the hourly temperature (°C) and relative humidity (%) readings for Hamilton for the last week of May.
Humidity is the amount of water vapor in the air. (Remember that water vapor is a gas, not a liquid.). Air has many different kinds of molecules: nitrogen, oxygen, and water vapor, for example. Nitrogen molecules are heavier than oxygen molecules and oxygen molecules are heavier than water vapor molecules. 
The amount of water vapor present in air is called humidity. The amount of water present in air as a percent of the maximum amount that the air can hold at that particular temperature is called relative humidity. Humidity is the amount of water vapor at any given time and relative humidity is the amount of water vapor in the air compared to the greatest amount it can hold at that air t … emperature.
Report Abuse. Humidity is the amount of water vapor that can be in the atmosphere at the given temperature. Relative humidity is the actual amount of water vapor in the atmosphere. As temperatures increase, the amount of water vapor that can be in the air also increases. As temperatures decrease, the amount of water vapor that can be in the air also decreases
At 40° air temperature, the parcel is saturated and will hold no more molecules of water vapor. The relative humidity is 100 percent. If the temperature of that air parcel is raised by 20°, it will hold about twice as many water molecules to reach saturation. Thus, the new relative humidity is now 48 percent. If the temperature is raised another 20°, it will again double its capacity to hold water vapor molecules. Relative humidity decreases as temperature increases. The importance of air temperature to moisture is obvious. At 80°, the air has a relatively low humidity and is relatively dry. As it cools, the humidity increases, reaching its saturation point at 40°.
Relative humidity (abbreviated RH) is the ratio of the partial pressure of water vapor to the equilibrium vapor pressure of water at the same temperature. Relative humidity depends on temperature and the pressure of the system of interest. The relative humidity of an air-water mixture is defined as the ratio of the partial pressure of water vapor in the mixture to the equilibrium vapor pressure of water at a given temperature:
A: The warmer air is, the more water vapor it can hold.. Dew point is a measure of how much water vapor is actually in the air. Relative humidity is a measure of the amount of water in the air compared with the amount of water the air can hold at the temperature it happens to be when you measure it. A: The amount of water in the air is given by absolute humidity, typically measured in grams per cubic meter. Relative humidity is a ratio of how much water vapor is in a given volume of air compared with the amount of water vapor that would saturate the air at a given temperature and pressure.
The dew point is the temperature at which a given sample of air will have a relative humidity of 100 percent; hence, the saturation temperature. All three -- relative humidity, temperature and dew point -- are bound together in the mathematical relationship below. A source of confusion. Relative humidity changes when temperatures change. Because warm air can hold more water vapor than cool air, relative humidity falls when the temperature rises if no moisture is added to the air.