The parathyroid glands are four tiny glands, located in the neck, that control the body's calcium levels. Each gland is about the size of a grain of rice (weighs approximately 30 milligrams and is 3-4 millimeters in diameter).
Parathyroid glands are small glands of the endocrine system which are located in the neck behind the thyroid. Parathyroid glands control the calcium in our bodies--how much calcium is in our bones, and how much calcium is in our blood.
If the amount of calcium or Vitamin D is low the gland produces parathyroid hormone, and if the amount of calcium is high the gland stops producing the hormones. Through this mechanism, there is minute-to-minute control of the level of calcium in the blood.
The parathyroids produce a hormone called parathyroid hormone (PTH). PTHPTH-parathyroid hormone raises the blood calcium level by: 1  breaking down the bone (where most of the body's calcium is stored) and causing calcium release. 2  increasing the body's ability to absorb calcium from food.
Learn what parathyroid glands are, where the parathyroid glands are located, and how the parathyroid glands control our calcium levels. Parathyroid Overview starts on this page. Hyperparathyroidism is introduced. Regulation of blood calcium is discussed along with the meaning of high blood calcium.
The thyroid gland and parathyroid glands are a group of endocrine glands located in the base of the neck. These glands play a vital role in maintaining the body’s homeostasis by producing hormones that regulate the body’s metabolism and free calcium levels.
The parathyroid glands are four tiny glands located within the thyroid gland in the neck. They produce parathyroid hormone, which helps control the amount of calcium in the blood. If your parathyroid gland is too big (enlarged), it can cause your body to produce too much parathyroid hormone (hyperparathyroidism).
Parathyroid glands are small glands of the endocrine system that are located behind the thyroid. There are four parathyroid glands which are normally about the size and shape of a grain of rice. They are shown in this picture as the mustard yellow glands behind the pink thyroid gland.
Calcitonin, a hormone produced by the thyroid gland that also regulates ECF calcium levels and serves to counteract the calcium-producing effects of PTH. The adult body contains as much as 1 kg of calcium. Most of this calcium is found in bone and teeth. The four parathyroid glands secrete the parathyroid hormone (PTH).