Depending on your size and weight, and factors such as air density, your speed at that moment will be about 120 mph—and you'll get there after a surprisingly brief bit of falling: just 1500 feet, about the same height as Chicago's Sears (now Willis) Tower. Equal speed means you hit the ground with equal force. 
Diving Forces. During the 3-second fall from 85 feet (26 meters), competition divers at the 2009 Red Bull Cliff Diving World Series experienced forces of 2 to 3 Gs when they hit the water and decelerated. That's nine times stronger than the forces Olympic high divers feel diving from 33-foot (10-meter) high platforms. But gravity is a powerful force. As you fall, it pulls you toward the earth, or in the case of cliff diving, toward the water, at a speed of 32 feet per second per second (9.8 meters per second per second). Because time is a factor in this formula, the longer you fall through space, the faster you go
The slightly longer answer (from the table) is that after 12 seconds an average size person in a stable free fall position (face down, arms and legs extended) would have fallen 1,483 feet. From that point on they would fall at a rate of 174 feet per second. Here's how I responded: Someone falling from that height will be going 50 to 60 miles per hour by the time they reach the ground. That's fast but survivable depending on how they hit the ground. If they fall head first they die. If the fall feet first they break a lot of bones and may die.
4. Strength. In diving it’s more about quality than hypertrophy. A dive from 90 feet, our standard competition height, goes from zero-to-60 mph in only three seconds, and the deceleration force is even greater, going from 60-to-zero in only one second and about 13 feet of water. 1. Speed. With only three seconds of flight time, it’s imperative for divers to be fast in order to complete all of their rotations before hitting the water. Speed is worked on in the gym by training explosive muscle techniques, sprints and stair workouts.
A diver falls for 2.3 seconds before hitting the water how fast.... 0. 0. A cliff diver in Mexico dives off a high cliff and fall for 2.3 seconds before hitting the water how fast is the driver goin. 
Assuming you are doing the right thing, and optimizing your form for water entry, you will simultaneously be minimizing your wind resistance during the fall: 1.) A fall from 30 feet will result in a velocity of roughly 44 ft/s = 30 mph. 2.) A fall from 100 feet will result in a velocity of roughly 80 ft/s = 54 mph. 3.) A fall from 150 feet will result in a velocity of roughly 97 ft/s = 66 mph. 4.) A fall from 250 feet will result in a velocity of roughly 125 ft/s = 85 mph. The first case is a tower jump I did for the Navy, and is trival for anyone who is HWP and doesn't belly flop.
The WHDF considers water depths of 43 to 49 feet (13 to 15 meters) adequate for dives from 65 feet (20 meters) or less, but water clarity is also a critical factor for cliff diving safety. Cliff Diving Safety. Cliff diving from any height can't be called safe -- it's one of the most dangerous extreme sports. In fact, official tourism sites of popular cliff diving destinations don't promote the activity. Cliff diving puts tremendous stresses on your bod
, first published back in 1970, a 77 kg (170 lb) person would reach terminal velocity after about 14 seconds. They would fall nearly 10,000 feet (3,048 meters) in one minute. Cliff divers are not in the air for anywhere near 14 seconds. This is why they can dive and survive. Some living creatures have a terminal velocity that is not fatal. For example, ants can survive falls from heights that would be easily fatal for humans. But cliff diving ants would not be nearly as popular with tourists in Acapulco.