With optimum conditions such as temperature and humidity a chicken egg takes 21 days to hatch.    From when it was layed, about 20-28 days,depending on the breed. From th … e time when the egg first cracked, about one day. How long does it take to hatch duck eggs? It takes 28 days for duck eggs to hatch.....and it takes 21 days for baby chicks to hatch and you can only put 12 eggs under neath a chicken..
Share to: It takes 28 days for duck eggs to hatch.....and it takes 21 days for baby chicks to hatch and you can only put 12 eggs under neath a chicken.. With optimum conditions such as temperature and humidity a chicken egg takes 21 days to hatch.    From when it was layed, about 20-28 days,depending on the breed. From th … e time when the egg first cracked, about one day. This is a very slow process. 14 people found this useful.
Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. + 158 others found this useful. With optimum conditions such as temperature and humidity a chicken egg takes 21 days to hatch.    From when it was layed, about 20-28 days,depending on the breed. From th … e time when the egg first cracked, about one day. This is a very slow process. 14 people
From Egg to Flight-Ready. Like most songbirds, mockingbirds incubate eggs for about two weeks before the babies hatch. Songbirds are born altricial, meaning they have no feathers, their eyes are closed and they cannot feed themselves. Precocial birds, like ducks, hatch with feathers, and can stand and eat. 
How long does it take to hatch duck eggs? It takes 28 days for duck eggs to hatch.....and it takes 21 days for baby chicks to hatch and you can only put 12 eggs under neath a chicken.. With optimum conditions such as temperature and humidity a chicken egg takes 21 days to hatch.    From when it was layed, about 20-28 days,depending on the breed. From th … e time when the egg first cracked, about one day. This is a very slow process. 14 people found this useful.
Hi York. Mockingbird incubation time is approximately 12 days from the time the last egg was laid. Then it's another 10-12 days after hatch before they will fledge. Hope this is what you wanted to know. If not, just let me know. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: It varies by species..but most passerines (perching birds) take approximately 2 weeks to hatch their eggs, and usually another 2 weeks before the young leave the nest. Birds built a nest and laid eggs in my grill. I left them alone, but I think the birds abandoned the nest. I want to cook on my grill, but I want to give the little guys a chance too. How long does it usually take bird eggs to hatch.
Answers. Best Answer: Northern mockingbirds take just under two weeks (12-13 days) to hatch. Average clutch size is 3, and only the females incubate the eggs. Source(s): http://www.allaboutbirds.org/guide/North... 
Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. + 158 others found this useful. How long does it take to hatch duck eggs? It takes 28 days for duck eggs to hatch.....and it takes 21 days for baby chicks to hatch and you can only put 12 eggs under neath a chicken..