Iron absorption. Iron enters the stomach from the esophagus. Iron is oxidized to the Fe 3+ state no matter its original form when taken in orally. Gastric acidity as well as solubilizing agents such as ascorbate prevent precipitation of the normally insoluble Fe 3+ . A number of dietary factors influence iron absorption. Ascorbate and citrate increase iron uptake in part by acting as weak chelators to help to solubilize the metal in the duodenum (Table 1) (Conrad and Umbreit, 1993).
Iron is mainly absorbed in the duodenum and upper jejunum. A transporter protein called divalent metal transporter 1 (DMT1) facilitates transfer of iron across the intestinal epithelial cells. DMT1 also facilitates uptake of other trace metals, both good (manganese, copper, cobalt, zinc) and bad (cadmium, lead). 
These cells become engorged with iron, die, drop off, and are excreted in feces. Absorption of iron is one of the first steps in iron metabolism. Metabolism is a process of chemical interactions that generate energy from food that you eat. Iron metabolism is the part of the process that manages iron in the body. 
In general, the digestive system is set up to maximize absorption; there is no regulation of the amounts of substances absorbed into the body. A notable exception is iron, in which daily dietary absorption is regulated so that it matches daily iron loss. The reason that absorption must be carefully regulated is that the body does not possess a physiological mechanism for regularly eliminating iron from the body. The transferrin saturation (percent of transferrin occupied by iron) is measured to determine if an individual has an excessive load of iron in the body. The normal transferrin saturation is in the range of 20-45%. Iron absorption by the enterocyte is programmed to match the body's needs.
Cereals, beans, and some vegetables contain poorly absorbed (nonheme) iron. Foods rich in vitamin C (e.g., citrus fruits and fresh vegetables), eaten with small amounts of heme iron-containing foods, such as meat, may increase the amount of nonheme iron absorbed from cereals, beans, and other vegetables. 
The amount of iron absorbed from heme sources ranges from 15 to 35 percent, but non-heme iron absorbs much less efficiently, with just 2 to 20 percent absorbed. Other foods have very little effect on heme iron absorption. But heme iron itself can improve the absorption of non-heme iron. Human have no way to rid themselves of excess iron, so your body normally absorbs just enough to meet its needs. Iron helps carry oxygen in red blood cells throughout your body, but too much iron is stored in organs such as the liver and can cause damage. When you have low iron stores, you absorb more iron.
In addition, absorption depends on the specific form that iron takes. Heme Iron. Heme iron is the most readily absorbed form of iron, and it’s found in shellfish, red meat, poultry, and fish (see the chart in this article about iron rich goods). On average, people absorb between 15-35% of the heme iron they consume (Insel et al 2003). Nonheme iron
When you eat food with iron, iron is absorbed into your body mainly through the upper part of your small intestine. There are two forms of dietary iron: heme and nonheme. Heme iron is derived from hemoglobin. It is found in animal foods that originally contained hemoglobin, such as red meats, fish, and poultry. 
To be absorbed, dietary iron can be absorbed as part of a protein such as heme protein or iron must be in its ferrous Fe 2+ form. A ferric reductase enzyme on the enterocytes’ brush border, duodenal cytochrome B (Dcytb), reduces ferric Fe 3+ to Fe 2+ . The efficiency with which iron is absorbed varies depending on the source. Generally the best-absorbed forms of iron come from animal products. Absorption of dietary iron in iron salt form (as in most supplements) varies somewhat according to the body’s need for iron, and is usually between 10% and 20% of iron intake.
The physical state of iron entering the duodenum greatly influences its absorption however. At physiological pH, ferrous iron (Fe 2+) is rapidly oxidized to the insoluble ferric (Fe 3+) form. Gastric acid lowers the pH in the proximal duodenum, enhancing the solubility and uptake of ferric iron (Table 1). A number of dietary factors influence iron absorption. Ascorbate and citrate increase iron uptake in part by acting as weak chelators to help to solubilize the metal in the duodenum (Table 1) (Conrad and Umbreit, 1993).