apostasy. Use apostasy in a sentence. LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of an apostasy is the act of leaving behind, or straying from, your religious or political beliefs or your principles. An example of apostasy is when someone decides to become atheist. 
A person who renounces a religious or political belief or principle: after fifty years as an apostate he returned to the faith. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  We may earnestly believe that they're wrong-whether they're non-Christians, heretics, apostates, agnostics, atheists, or what have you. 
Full Definition of APOSTATE. : one who commits apostasy. — apostate adjective. See apostate defined for English-language learners. See apostate defined for kids. 
Apostasy. Apostasy is the falling away from the Christian faith. It is a revolt against the truth of God’s word by a believer. It can also describe a group or church organization that has fallen away from the truths of Christianity as revealed in the Bible.
apostasy. in religion: see heresy heresy,in religion, especially in Christianity, beliefs or views held by a member of a church that contradict its orthodoxy, or core doctrines. It is distinguished from apostasy, which is a complete abandonment of faith that makes the apostate a deserter, or former member......
Apostasy in the Christian church. by Matt Slick Let no one in any way deceive you, for it [Jesus' return] will not come unless the apostasy comes first, and the man of lawlessness is revealed, the son of destruction, (2 Thess. 2:3, NASB). Apostasy means to fall away from the truth. 
Apostasy. When individuals or groups of people turn away from the principles of the gospel, they are in a state of apostasy. One example is the Great Apostasy, which occurred after the Savior established His Church. 
APOSTASY; APOSTATE. a-pos'-ta-si, a-pos'-tat (he apostasia, a standing away from): I.e. a falling away, a withdrawal, a defection. 
adjective. noun. The definition of an apostate is a person who leaves behind his religious or political beliefs. An example of someone who could be described as apostate is a previously Catholic individual who chooses to violate the Ten Commandments without remorse. Apostate is defined as someone who has left behind his religious or political beliefs or his principles. An example of an apostate is a priest who leaves his church.
Noun. 1. apostasy-the state of having rejected your religious beliefs or your political party or a cause (often in favor of opposing beliefs or causes). defection, renunciation. rejection-the state of being rejected.