The design of the diversion gate for construction of the Enlarged Cotter Dam presented various challenges, including operation for up to 38m head for discharge into a 3m diameter conduit and the need to serve as an upstream concrete form during eventual diversion closure. In the case of the Enlarged Cotter Dam diversion conduit and gate, the flow effects in the operating range of the gate presented a distinctly 3 dimensional problem, resulting in errors when the 2D analysis methods were applied to it.
Valves used in floodgate applications have a variety of design requirements and are usually located at the base of dams. Often, the most important requirement (besides regulating flow) is energy dissipation. Since water is very heavy, it exits the base of a dam with the enormous force of water pushing from above. 1 Fixed cone valves are designed to dissipate the energy from a water flow during reservoir discharge. 2  They are a round pipe section with an adjustable sleeve gate and cone at the discharge end. 3  Flow is varied by moving the sleeve away or towards its cone seat.
The sluiceway is a concrete-gated structure with a 16- by 14-foot radial gate located at the left side of the dam. The diversion headworks consists of a concrete structure with a 16- by 13-foot radial gate and a diversion capacity of 550 cfs. The Murdock Diversion was built in order to slow and divert water from the Provo River into the Provo River Aqueduct for use by Association shareholders.
The Murdock Diversion is a concrete dam structure at the mouth of Provo Canyon, about nine miles below Deer Creek Dam. It has a radial gate that controls flow in the Provo River and allows water to back up and be diverted into the Provo River Aqueduct. The Murdock Diversion was built in order to slow and divert water from the Provo River into the Provo River Aqueduct for use by Association shareholders.
Water diversion applications include pumping stations for municipal water supply, irrigation, and off-stream storage, for example. 
An external wastegate is a separate self-contained mechanism typically used with turbochargers that do not have internal wastegates. An external wastegate requires a specially constructed turbo manifold with a dedicated runner going to the wastegate. The external wastegate may be part of the exhaust housing itself. An internal wastegate is a built-in bypass valve and passage within the turbocharger housing which allows excess boost pressure to dump into the downstream exhaust. Control of the internal wastegate valve by a pressure signal from the intake manifold is identical to that of an external
PASSUR’s Diversion Management solution is part of an integrated suite that reduces costs and constraints gate-to-gate, powered by the largest commercial traffic management surveillance network in the world. 
A wastegate is a valve that diverts exhaust gases away from the turbine wheel in a turbocharged engine system. Diversion of exhaust gases regulates the turbine speed, which in turn regulates the rotating speed of the compressor. An internal wastegate is a built-in bypass valve and passage within the turbocharger housing which allows excess boost pressure to dump into the downstream exhaust. Control of the internal wastegate valve by a pressure signal from the intake manifold is identical to that of an external wastegate.
The Association’s responsibility is to ensure that the gates are working properly and to keep the diversion free of debris. The Association also maintains the measuring structures in order to make sure sufficient water is being delivered downstream to its shareholders. The Murdock Diversion was built in order to slow and divert water from the Provo River into the Provo River Aqueduct for use by Association