Step 2: Portion out your total sum by event. Once you've figured out what you want to spend on the couple's gifts overall, you can break it down by percentages so that the wedding gift gets the bulk of your cash. Spend: 1  20% of your total on the engagement present. 2  20% of your total on the shower gift. 3  60% of your total on the wedding gift. 
- If you're flying across the country or halfway across the world to attend your friends' wedding, they'll understand if you spend a bit less on the gift. If you're willing to travel that far for this wedding, chances are they're pretty important to you, and you should still spend at least $50 to $100 on a gift. - The general consensus is that you should expect to spend at least $50 on a wedding gift. If you're a student or working with a tight budget, $50 is a perfectly acceptable amount to spend, regardless of how well you know the couple. What's your relationship to the couple?
1 Nevertheless, you should still get them a present. 2  If they're a couple you're willing to travel for, they're probably pretty important to you and vice versa. 3  Spend $50-$100 on their gift. 4  When You're in the Wedding. 1 For a Destination Wedding. 2  When a couple's asking you to spend money on airfare and hotel, they'll understand that you can't spend as much on their gift. 3 
Not only is the cost of a wedding soaring — couples spent an average of $30,000 in 2013, according to TheKnot.com, up from $28,000 the year before and the highest level since 2008 — but wedding guests are spending more than ever, as well. Couples spent an average $220 per guest at weddings in 2013, according to TheKnot.com, including $66 on food alone. But all of our experts agreed that basing the cost of your gift on how much you think the couple is spending on food and entertainment is an antiquated notion.
You may also need to pay for travel, apparel, and an engagement present. So use the guideline of allocating 20% of your total gift budget for the shower. For example, if your total budget is $200, you would spend $40 on the bridal shower gift, leaving $160 for the wedding present and engagement present. Question: How Much Should I Spend on a Bridal Shower Gift? Answer: The simple answer to how much you should spend on a bridal shower gift is, what you can afford.. Typically, bridal shower gifts cost between $25 and $75, although members of the bride's family often spend a little more.
Spend 20% of your budget on the engagement party gift, 20% on a gift for a bridal shower or other pre-wedding occasion, and reserve 60% for the wedding gift itself. “Outline your budget ahead of time to see what is doable for you,” says TheKnot.com editor Jamie Miles. 3. Couples spent an average $220 per guest at weddings in 2013, according to TheKnot.com, including $66 on food alone. But all of our experts agreed that basing the cost of your gift on how much you think the couple is spending on food and entertainment is an antiquated notion.
What's your budget like? - The general consensus is that you should expect to spend at least $50 on a wedding gift. If you're a student or working with a tight budget, $50 is a perfectly acceptable amount to spend, regardless of how well you know the couple. What's your relationship to the couple?
The average friend of the couple spends $79 on a wedding gift, according to TheKnot.com. Family members spend nearly twice that: $146. The Knot advises wedding guests to consider the following formula: 1  Co-worker or distant family friend or relative: $75-$100. Thanks to “save the date” cards, you can budget in advance for a wedding gift, says Hill. If you know a wedding is three months away, figure out how much you can put aside each of those months for the event.
The majority of wedding guests who are friends of the bride and groom spent less than $100 for a gift, according to a 2010 survey by TheKnot.com. Relatives shelled out an average of $146 on wedding gifts and were twice as likely to spend more than $100 compared with friends of the couple. Couples spent an average $220 per guest at weddings in 2013, according to TheKnot.com, including $66 on food alone. But all of our experts agreed that basing the cost of your gift on how much you think the couple is spending on food and entertainment is an antiquated notion.