Acid hydrolysis of esters is reversible: Alkaline hydrolysis of esters is irreversible, since it gives an alcohol and a salt of the acid: This process is used extensively in industry to make alcohols and acids—for example, in the saponification of fats to make glycerol and salts of higher acyclic acids (soaps).
Acid hydrolysis of esters is reversible: Alkaline hydrolysis of esters is irreversible, since it gives an alcohol and a salt of the acid: This process is used extensively in industry to make alcohols and acids—for example, in the saponification of fats to make glycerol and salts of higher acyclic acids (soaps). The hydrolysis of ester, glucoside (in carbohydrates), and amide (in proteins) bonds plays an important part in the vital activities of all organisms—that is, in processes such as the assimilation of food and the transmission of nerve impulses. In the living organism, hydrolysis is catalyzed by enzymes (hydrolases).
The reaction of an alcohol with a carboxylic acid is a reversible reaction. In the reaction, some of the ester molecules formed are split up again into the alcohol and carboxylic acid they are made from. This happens when water reacts with the ester link. This is a hydrolysis reaction. 
Hydrolysis. Hydrolysis is a chemical reaction or process in which a chemical compound is broken down by reaction with water. This is the type of reaction that is used to break down polymers. Water is added in this reaction. The addition of a molecule of water to a chemical compound, without forming any other products is usually known as hydration, rather than hydrolysis. In biochemistry, hydrolysis is considered the reverse or opposite of dehydration synthesis.
Best Answer: Hydrolysis is a chemical reaction or process in which a chemical compound reacts with water.This is the type of reaction that is used to break down polymers. Water is added in this reaction. Report Abuse. Hydrolysis is a chemical reaction or process in which a chemical compound reacts with water.This is the type of reaction that is used to break down polymers.
Types [edit]. Usually hydrolysis is a chemical process in which a molecule of water is added to a substance. Sometimes this addition causes both substance and water molecule to split into two parts. In such reactions, one fragment of the target molecule (or parent molecule) gains a hydrogen ion. A common kind of hydrolysis occurs when a salt of a weak acid or weak base (or both) is dissolved in water. Water spontaneously ionizes into hydroxide anions and hydronium cations. The salt also dissociates into its constituent anions and cations.
(hīdrŏl`ĭsĭs) , chemical reaction of a compound with water, usually resulting in the formation of one or more new compounds. The most common hydrolysis occurs when a salt of a weak acid or weak base (or both) is dissolved in water. Water ionizes into negative hydroxyl ions (OH −) and positive hydrogen ions (H +), which become hydrated to form positive hydronium ions (H 3 O +). The hydrolysis of ester, glucoside (in carbohydrates), and amide (in proteins) bonds plays an important part in the vital activities of all organisms—that is, in processes such as the assimilation of food and the transmission of nerve impulses. In the living organism, hydrolysis is catalyzed by enzymes (hydrolases).
(hīdrŏl`ĭsĭs) , chemical reaction of a compound with water, usually resulting in the formation of one or more new compounds. The most common hydrolysis occurs when a salt of a weak acid or weak base (or both) is dissolved in water. Water ionizes into negative hydroxyl ions (OH −) and positive hydrogen ions (H +), which become hydrated to form positive hydronium ions (H 3 O +). The salt also breaks up into positive and negative ions. Alkaline hydrolysis of esters is irreversible, since it gives an alcohol and a salt of the acid: This process is used extensively in industry to make alcohols and acids—for example, in the saponification of fats to make glycerol and salts of higher acyclic acids (soaps).