The cost of your phlebotomy training program can depend on various factors. We have tried to figure how much you will need to pay for your phlebotomy education. The major factor that determines final cost of a degree is a type of program you choose – whether it’s campus-based program, or online.
1 Phlebotomy technician training at a technical school or facility costs $700-$1,400. 2  Medtech, which has 10 locations in the Midwest and Southeast, charges $825 for phlebotomy training courses which includes books and lab fees.
1 The American Society for Phlebotomy Technicians offers a training course for $800, but participants must also purchase membership to the association for $35 and a textbook for $40. 2  Some technical colleges offer phlebotomy coursework as part of a larger medical assisting program.
Otherwise, you have to pay your tuition out of your current state. At most community colleges, phlebotomy training can range from $600 to $2,500. Some classes can cost even more. How much a college charges depends on what the school offers and what they charge in general for tuition.
The fee for phlebotomy training varies based on the cost. After you complete the course, (which can last four to eight months), you should be certified enough to take the main state test. The fee for this test is generally $50, though it can vary in different states.
1 Phlebotomy training is available online through multiple venues and typically costs $300-$700. 2  While online training offers the advantage of taking classes on a variable schedule, most online schools recommend hands-on training in addition to the online coursework.
1 Students with a GED can expect to pay $100 to receive phlebotomy training. 2  In many community colleges, the cost of phlebotomy training can range from $600 to $2,500 or higher, depending on what the school offers and their overall charge for tuition.
If you are wondering how much are phlebotomy classes and you live in the state of California, you can expect to pay a good deal more than someone living in Virginia. The cost of tuition at California State recently went up to $5472 per year. Community colleges charge less, even in California.