Kinder Morgan's (KM) Operator Qualification (OQ) Program was developed to comply with the Office of Pipeline Safety of the U. S. Department of Transportation's (DOT) Qualification of Pipeline Personnel Regulation (49 CFR Part 192 Subpart N and Part 195 Subpart G). This Program applies to KM's DOT facilities and employees of Kinder Morgan (natural gas transmission, distribution and retail pipelines) and Kinder Morgan Energy Partners (KMP) (hazardous liquids and CO 2 pipelines).
SourceGas’ Operator Qualification (OQ) Program was developed to comply with the Office of Pipeline Safety of the U. S. Department of Transportation’s (DOT) Qualification of Pipeline Personnel Regulation (49 CFR Part 192 Subpart N). SourceGas’ OQ Program is designed to ensure that all individuals working on SourceGas’ DOT-regulated pipeline facilities are OQ-qualified to perform specific covered tasks, to document that qualification, and to reduce the probability and consequences of incidents and accidents.
The U.S. Dept. of Transportation (DOT) has put into effect a new Operator Qualification Rule (OQ Rule) for Part 192 (for gas pipelines) and Part 195 (for liquid pipelines). Each module consists of a training narrative for the employee, a description of task purpose, basic theory of operation, regulatory requirements and safety hazards. There is a self-check quiz and a complete list of procedures for performing the task.
OQ is a regulation of the Office of Pipeline Safety of the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT). It requires pipeline operators to develop and maintain a written qualification program for individuals performing covered tasks on pipeline facilities. 
The Procedures for Contractor Compliance with OQ describes the interaction between the KM's Contracts Department, KM's Project Manager, KM's Inspector and the Contractor. Please click on each document in the Operator Qualification Links section to read the details of Kinder Morgan Operator Qualification program. To get more information on Kinder Morgan's required Operator Qualification record keeping service for contractors, ISNetworld, please click on the ISN icon. This Program applies to KM's DOT facilities and employees of Kinder Morgan (natural gas transmission, distribution and retail pipelines) and Kinder Morgan Energy Partners (KMP) (hazardous liquids and CO 2 pipelines).
OQ Covered Tasks. A covered task is basically any activity performed on a pipeline facility. Our covered tasks are designed to meet or exceed the DOT requirements for Operator Qualification.
Operator Qualification. In 1999, the Operator Qualification (OQ) final rule was issued, enhancing training requirements for pipeline operators. The rule, which was adopted into the Code of Federal Regulations under. 
The Rule also requires recognizing and responding to Abnormal Operating Conditions that may be encountered while performing these covered tasks. This is a performance-based qualification program. As of October 28, 2002 the DOT rule for Operator Qualification has come into affect. The DOT has defined a number of pipeline operations tasks as covered tasks that require pipeline operators to have qualified personnel performing those tasks. Each module consists of a training narrative for the employee, a description of task purpose, basic theory of operation, regulatory requirements and safety hazards. There is a self-check quiz and a complete list of procedures for performing the task.
Industrial Training Services, Inc. is the leader in Operator Qualification (OQ) compliance, training, database management, and emerging technologies to support the energy pipeline industry. We are a respected and trusted company with over 30 years of experience in: 1  DOT 192 & 195 OQ Compliance. 
KM's OQ Program is designed to ensure that all individuals working on KM's DOT-regulated pipeline facilities are OQ-qualified to perform specific covered tasks, to document that qualification, and to reduce the probability and consequences of incidents and accidents. This Program applies to KM's DOT facilities and employees of Kinder Morgan (natural gas transmission, distribution and retail pipelines) and Kinder Morgan Energy Partners (KMP) (hazardous liquids and CO 2 pipelines).