A prepositional phrase that modifies a noun or pronoun is called an adjective phrase. The members of the club want sweatshirts with the club emblem. [The prepositional phrase of the club is used as an adjective to modify the noun members. With the club emblem is used as an adjective to modify the noun sweatshirts.
[The gerund phrase is used as the object of the verb feared. The gerund skiing is modified by the prepositional phrase down the mountain and by the adverb alone .] My dog’s favorite game is bringing me the newspaper. [The gerund phrase is used as a predicate nominative.
Answer by Zxcvm. Confidence votes 24. Different Types of Phrases Type of Phrase Definition Example Prepositional Begins with a preposition and ends with a noun or a pronoun … by the lake In your ear Adjectival Prepositional phrase that functions as an adjective She has a fish with red gills.
A clause is a group of words with its own subject and verb. An independent clause can stand by itself as a complete sentence. A subordinate clause can only be part of a sentence. Adjective clause – a subordinate clause that modifies a noun or pronoun by telling what kind or which one.
Check your understanding with the vocabulary quiz and comprehension quiz. Skiing is the action of travelling over snow or ice with one's feet placed on skis (long narrow pieces of wood or other material).
Base: Definition of this term is dependent on the context it is being used for. Base may be used to describe the under side of a ski or snowboard, the main area at the bottom of a ski resort, or the overall depth of snow. Baseplate: The bottom portion of a ski or snowboard binding.
To try and eliminate any confusion, most commonly used skiing terms are listed here with their definitions, as well as some other physics and mechanics terms used on the website. The website is also extensively linked to the entries on this page to make the definitions of anything that is not understood, easily found.
Speeding is a gerund and a present participle. A gerund is a verbal noun, the-ing form of a verb used as a noun. Example: Speeding is against the law. A present participle i … s used in conjunction with an auxiliary verb to create the progressive tenses. Example: That car is speeding down the street.