1 Paint a runner into the stairs. 2  Use a different color for the outside edges of the stair top and riser than the inside portion. 3  Use painter's tape to keep these sections separate. 4  Paint the top of the stair. 5  Use bead board on the riser. 1 Use painter's tape to keep these sections separate. 2  Paint the top of the stair. 3  Use bead board on the riser. 4  Bead board is a classic style that adds a professional touch if your basement stairs connect to a well-used section of your house. 5  Allow your kids to paint the risers.
How to Paint a Staircase. Three Methods: Painting the stairs Painting Faux Carpet Painting a Faux Runner. In many houses, the staircase is the first architectural element of the home's interior that guests see, so homeowners want it to be appealing. Clean areas you will paint with water and a mild detergent to remove grease, dirt and wax build-up. Wipe the areas down with rag and clear water to remove the soap. For stubborn dirt, use a multi-purpose household cleaner. If the stairs are concrete or metal, you may also use a wire brush on set-in dirt.
-Marie. Marie, A stairwell can be tricky to paint since it’s often hard to set up a ladder that will allow you to reach all of the wall area. Whether you want to tackle painting it yourself or not will depend on how high the stairwell is and how comfortable you are working on ladders and scaffolding. If there is still an area over the staircase that you can’t reach, you may need to reposition the walkboard and ladders at the top of the stairwell. Another option is to attach a leg extender, also known as a ladder leveler, on one leg of an extension ladder, then position the ladder on the steps.
Tips For Painting The Stairwell. 1  Start by cutting in the ceiling completely. 2  Do not try to roll out the wall from the plank. 3  The cut in should be large enough so you don’t hit the ceiling when rolling out the wall with an extension pole. 4  Remove the ladders and plank before attempting to roll the walls out. 5  Always keep three points of contact. 1
With the scaffolding in place, you are ready to paint the stairwell. Begin along the edges of the stairwell walls, using a paintbrush or small roller to cut in along the edges and trim. You may need to raise the scaffolding to reach the top edges easily. Work down the corners of the stairwell walls. Before tackling the high stairwell, ensure the equipment, ladder setup and your habits promote safety. 1  Use sturdy ladders with a maximum weight limit higher than your weight. 2  Extend the stepladder to the full position. 3  Opening the ladder only partially increases the risk of collapse.
Preparation. It’s a good idea to thoroughly dust the ceiling and walls of the stairwell prior to painting, so cobwebs don’t gum up your paintbrush or roller. Use a telescoping cleaning pole with a duster made of lambswool or synthetic material attached at the end. Painting Supplies. Use an extension pole fitted with a paint roller to paint the ceiling. Moving the roller with a slow, fluid motion helps minimize paint splatters. A lambswool roller cover with a density of at least 1/2 inch holds more paint than a regular paint roller.
Step 6: Paint the rest of the stairwell walls. Once the edges are painted, use a roller to finish applying paint to the rest of the stairwell walls. The dried, finished project will breathe new life into your stairwell. Use a roller on the rest of the stairwell walls. Step 4: Paint the ceiling. Using a paint roller with an extension, paint the ceiling. Roll slowly to avoid splatter. When the paint has dried, remove the masking tape and protective sheeting from the walls. Pull slowly on the tape to keep the paint from tearing. Use a roller with an extension to
1 Paint the top of the stair. 2  Use bead board on the riser. 3  Bead board is a classic style that adds a professional touch if your basement stairs connect to a well-used section of your house. 4  Allow your kids to paint the risers. 5  Give them acrylic paints and allow them to come up with their own designs. 1 Use painter's tape to keep these sections separate. 2  Paint the top of the stair. 3  Use bead board on the riser. 4  Bead board is a classic style that adds a professional touch if your basement stairs connect to a well-used section of your house. 5
Stairwell Painting Tip. Tweet. Painting the upper reaches of a stairwell can be a difficult chore. It’s usually fairly high and there’s no good place to set the ladder. Try this: 1  Set an extension ladder on one of the lower steps and lean the top against the wall opposite the top of the stairs.