LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of an indictment is a charge or formal written accusation charging someone with a crime. An example of indictment is the accusation which caused Nazi war criminals to be tried in the Nuremberg Trials. Noun. (countable and uncountable, plural indictments). ( 1 law) An official formal accusation for a criminal offence, or the process by which it is brought to a jury. [from 14th c.]. ( 2 law) The official legal document outlining the charges concerned.
Indicted is past tense of the verb to indict, which means to accuse or charge, especially to charge formally of a crime.     Example sentences:     He was … indicted for grand theft auto because he was found in a secluded area with the stolen car. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. An indictment is, essentially, to be formally accused of something. An example sentence is: The indictment was absolutely humiliating for him.
Indicted is past tense of the verb to indict, which means to accuse or charge, especially to charge formally of a crime.     Example sentences:     He was … indicted for grand theft auto because he was found in a secluded area with the stolen car. Split and merge into it. Answer by EMendivil. Confidence votes 63. Definition: formal words spoken or written by a jury that charges a person with a crime. Sentence For example: The accused was charged in an indictment because he is alleged to have shot the mayor.
Definition: formal words spoken or written by a jury that charges a person with a crime. Sentence For example: The accused was charged in an indictment because he is alleged t … o have shot the mayor. 7 people found this useful. Answered. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. An indictment is, essentially, to be formally accused of something. An example sentence is: The indictment was absolutely humiliating for him.
7.47] is a draft for the Bill) he strengthens his case by heading the indictment, which he publishes, Bill of Supplication. Lennox could not begin to prepare an English indictment against Mary till she was in England and in Elizabeth's power. A highway nuisance may be abated by any person, and may be made the subject of indictment at common law. A pardon may be pleaded on arraignment in bar of an indictment (though not of an impeachment), or after verdict in arrest of judgment.
An indictment is a document issued by a grand jury charging one or more persons with the commission of a criminal offense. In most states, a matter involving a capita … l crime, that is, a crime punishable by death, must be submitted to a grand jury as the sole means of charging the person with the crime. Split and merge into it. Answer by EMendivil. Confidence votes 63. Definition: formal words spoken or written by a jury that charges a person with a crime. Sentence For example: The accused was charged in an indictment because he is alleged to have shot the mayor.
Sentence for indictment | Use indictment in a sentence. People looking for: how to use indictment in a sentence, indictment in a sentence, use indictment in a sentence, indictment sentence, indictment use in sentence, indictment used in sentence, under indictment in a sentence, visited this page. Sentences for indictment. Now that you’ve seen how to use indictment in a sentence hope you might explore the rest of this educational reference site Sentencefor.com to see many other example sentences which provide word usage information.
indictment. 1  an indicting or being indicted; charge; accusation. 2  Law a formal written accusation charging one or more persons with the commission of a crime, presented by a grand jury to the court when the jury has found, after examining the evidence presented, that there is a valid case. Noun. (countable and uncountable, plural indictments). ( 1 law) An official formal accusation for a criminal offence, or the process by which it is brought to a jury. [from 14th c.]. ( 2 law) The official legal document outlining the charges concerned.