You won't believe these 10 facts about people. Polysaccharides are chains of sugar units that form in configurations from tens to thousands of units long. They comprise the carbohydrate storage units for plants and animals, and they can also have structural roles in plants, fungi, insects, and crustaceans. 
polymers consisting of chains of monosaccharide or disaccharides units Groups of sugar molecules linked together make larger molecules as well as long chain polymers. These … are called polysaccharides. Polysaccharide are large numbers of carbohydrates found in or made by living organisms and microbes. They are large, complex molecules of hundreds to thousands of glucose molecules bonded together in ong long chainlike molecule. Polysaccharide is a polymeric carbohydrate structure.
A common polysaccharide found in plants would be starch. Starch is made up of roughly 20% amylose and 80% amylopectin which both have a very similar structure except amylope … ctin is made up of much larger molecules. It is the energy storage system like batteries. Another very common polysaccharide is cellulose. 
Sometimes known as glycans, there are three common and principal types of polysaccharide, cellulose, starch and glycogen, all made by joining together molecules of glucose in different ways. Polysaccharides are very large, high molecular weight biological molecules that are almost pure carbohydrate. They are constructed by animals and plants from simpler, monosaccharide molecules, by joining together large numbers of the simpler molecules using glycosidic bonds (-O-). 
They range in structure from linear to highly branched. Examples include storage polysaccharides such as starch and glycogen, and structural polysaccharides such as cellulose and chitin. Polysaccharides are often quite heterogeneous, containing slight modifications of the repeating unit. Polysaccharides contain more than ten monosaccharide units. Definitions of how large a carbohydrate must be to fall into the categories polysaccharides or oligosaccharides vary according to personal opinion.
: a carbohydrate that can be decomposed by hydrolysis into two or more molecules of monosaccharides; especially: one (as cellulose, starch, or glycogen) containing many monosaccharide units and marked by complexity. See polysaccharide defined for kids. Medical Definition of POLYSACCHARIDE. : a carbohydrate that can be decomposed by hydrolysis into two or more molecules of monosaccharides; especially: one (as cellulose, starch, or glycogen) containing many monosaccharide units and marked by complexity—called also glycan.
Definition of POLYSACCHARIDE. : a carbohydrate that can be decomposed by hydrolysis into two or more molecules of monosaccharides; especially: one (as cellulose, starch, or glycogen) containing many monosaccharide units and marked by complexity. See polysaccharide defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. Medical Definition of POLYSACCHARIDE. : a carbohydrate that can be decomposed by hydrolysis into two or more molecules of monosaccharides; especially: one (as cellulose, starch, or glycogen) containing many monosaccharide units and marked by complexity—called also glycan.
Cellulose is a structural polysaccharide found in plants. This is typically considered fiber in diets, which human digestive systems cannot break down. Plants like grass and corn stalks are rich in cellulose and require animals that are ruminants, like sheep and cattle, to access their energy. Linear starches such as amylose are found in plants, and glycogen is found in animals. The other category, a structural polysaccharide, is typically a branched carbon chain used to create rigidity in a cell, like chitin in animals or insects and cellulose
Starch (a polymer of glucose) is used as a storage polysaccharide in plants, being found in the form of both amylose and the branched amylopectin. In animals, the structurally similar glucose polymer is the more densely branched glycogen, sometimes called 'animal starch'. Polysaccharides contain more than ten monosaccharide units. Definitions of how large a carbohydrate must be to fall into the categories polysaccharides or oligosaccharides vary according to personal opinion.