Plants that grow in the shade are an essential part of a forest garden, but there is also room for plants requiring full sun — you can simply place them along the edges of your forest garden. It is much easier to work with your site and climate, rather than fighting them. 
Earlier planted potatoes are generally more productive because they have longer to grow and produce. Traditionally potatoes are grown in long mounded rows in the vegetable garden, where they are quite productive – a 100’ row can yield between 150 and 300 pounds of spuds. Once your soil is well prepared and the seed pieces are ready, plant then 4” to 6” deep, 10” apart within rows, with 3’ spacing between rows. Do not plant potatoes in the same area year after year as this leads to an increase in disease and insect problems.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. This depends on your definition of a vegetable. The most common meaning of 'vegetable' is an edible plant part that is not a fruit. So in that case, yes, vegetables do grow in the amazon rainforest. Ferns have been cooked as a vegetable by many nationalities, and bamboo, and both of these plants grow in the amazon. 
To grow a new potato plant, you plant the potato tuber. When the tuber is planted, it is called a seed potato. Only certified seed potatoes should be planted in your home garden. Certification insures that the seed tubers are free of disease. 
Several endemic vegetable species are important staples of the diets, cultures and economies of rainforest communities. Vegetables of the rainforest are adapted to the balmy tropical climate–these plants do not tolerate cold weather and typically have a long growing season. 
1 Rainforests cover 5% of the Earth and are home to half the world’s plant and animal species. 2  There are loads of insects in the rainforest – often more than 50,000 insect species in a square mile. 1 There are loads of insects in the rainforest – often more than 50,000 insect species in a square mile. 2  Sloths, from South American rainforests, move so slowly that algae can grow in their fur.
Comments. Submit. The world's rain forests offer many resources people use every day, including vegetables. Many vegetables originated in the tropical rain forests, including corn, potatoes, rice, winter squash and yams, before people began growing them in other parts of the world. 
Submit. Rainforests are characterized by large amounts of rainfall. Most vegetables need a lot of water to produce the largest crop. This makes a rainforest an excellent place to grow vegetables. The soil quality can be poor in tropical areas, but the decaying leaves of rainforest trees provide excellent compost for most vegetation. Black Forest Pepper. The black forest pepper is a hot pepper that is red in color with thick skin and up to 2 inches long. It is native to the Brazilian rainforest. The plant can grow up to 6 feet tall. The vegetables mature about three months after they have been planted.
Actually, unless the rain forest is cleared there are no crops in the forest. The soil of the rain forest is not good for growing crops once the land is cleared of trees. The ecosystem of the rain forest is a special place. Some do try to clear the forest and plant crops like potatoes and coffee beans, but it is hard to sustain them for long periods of time.