Step 5. Put the picnic ham into the middle of the oven. Roast it for 18 to 22 minutes per lb. Cooking times are approximations, as they vary by oven and according to the size of the roast. Picnic hams and other meat on the bone cook a bit faster than boneless meat. 
Directions. 1  Turn oven on to 300. 2  Place pork in lasagne pan fat side up. ( 3 can be placed on a rack,optional). 4  Score fat lightly in a diamond pattern, not piercing through to the meat. 5  Rub salt, pepper and garlic on the fat. 6  Cover lightly with tin foil and roast for 3 hours, this gets the fat melting. 1
Cook's bone-in smoked picnics are fully cooked and ready to eat, or you may heat them using the following directions. If frozen, thaw in refrigerator for 1 to 2 days before heating. Heat oven to 325°F. Remove all packaging materials. Place picnic on rack in shallow roasting pan (FAT SIDE UP). Add 1 cup water to pan and cover tightly with aluminum foil. Heat 20 to 25 minutes per pound.
The best way to do this is to place the ham on a rack in a roasting pan. Add water to the bottom of the pan and cover tightly with aluminum foil (cover the pan with the ham). Cook approximately 12 to 15 minutes per pound for a whole or boneless ham and approximately 18 to 20 minutes per pound for a half ham. 
Step 4. Braise the pork shoulder at 325 degrees Fahrenheit for about 2 1/3 to three hours in your oven or on the Low setting in your crockpot all day. Test with a meat thermometer to make sure the internal temperature reads at least 170 degrees Fahrenheit. Step 2. Set the pork shoulder on a rack in a shallow roasting pan to allow fat to drip off the meat during roasting. Insert an oven-proof meat thermometer into a meaty section the shoulder roast; avoid placing it near a bone.
Step 4. Set your oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit, preheat and then set the roasting pan in your oven. Because this is a dry-heat method of cooking, do not cover the pork shoulder or add any liquid to the roasting pan. Step 2. Set the pork shoulder on a rack in a shallow roasting pan to allow fat to drip off the meat during roasting. Insert an oven-proof meat thermometer into a meaty section the shoulder roast; avoid placing it near a bone.
(3- to 4-lb) bone-in fresh pork shoulder picnic 2 garlic cloves, cut into slivers 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 1/2 lb onions (5 or 6 medium), halved lengthwise, then cut lengthwise into 1/4-inch-thick slices 3/4 cup apple cider (unfiltered is the best) Preheat oven to 325°F. Lucky you! Let the meat come to room temperature and make a dry rub from these ingredients or cut the recipe in half: 1/4 cup cumin 1/4 cup brown sugar 1/2 cup paprika 1/4 cup chili powder 1 tbsp red pepper 1/4 cup salt 1/4 cup black pepper 1 tsp onion powder 1 tsp garlic and rub it into the meat.
Cover the pork with plastic wrap and marinate in the refrigerator for at least 3 hours or up to overnight. Allow the meat to sit at room temperature for 30 minutes before cooking. Preheat the oven to 350F. Roast the pork for 4 hours, uncovered, until the skin is crispy-brown. 
• Leave the netting on the meat; do not remove it at this time. • Place the meat skin side up in the pan. • Put the lid on the roasting pan and place it in the oven. • The ham should cook about 22 minutes per pound of weight or until the meat thermometer registers 170F. • My 3.7 kg ham took 4.5 hours to reach 170F. • During the last half hour, take out the ham [be careful it’s hot] and place it on a tray. 