You can have a herniated disc in any part of your spine. But most herniated discs affect the lower back (lumbar spine). Some happen in the neck (cervical spine) and, more rarely, in the upper back (thoracic spine).
“If the disc is not pressing on a nerve, you might have pain in your neck or back. But often, the disc filling impinges on sensitive nerves in the neck or back, causing pain, weakness or numbness that can radiate down your arms or legs.
A herniated disc in the lower back can cause pain and numbness in the buttock and down the leg. This is called sciatica (say sy-AT-ih-kuh). Sciatica is the most common symptom of a herniated disc in the low back. If a herniated disc isn't pressing on a nerve, you may have a backache or no pain at all.
A herniated disc in the lower spine can put pressure on the sciatic nerve (sciatica). The sciatic nerve is comprised of several spinal nerve branches as they travel from the spine down the length of the leg.
Your body wants to heal your bulging or herniated discs, but needs your help before it can fully cure your herniated or bulging disc. A disc herniation is a wound-on the inside of your body... And your body is equipped with the power to repair and heal wounds...
Symptoms may vary greatly, depending on the position of the herniated disc. A herniated disc in the neck may cause symptoms in the shoulders, arms or chest. A herniated disc in the lower back may cause sciatica, with leg pain and other nerve-related symptoms. A herniated disc in the lower back may be felt in the buttock and down the back of the leg to the ankle or foot. There may be low back pain, but usually not as severe as leg pain. Other symptoms of a herniated disc may include severe deep muscle pain and muscle spasms. Low back pain that does not involve numbness, tingling and/or weakness, or pain in a leg is not usually due to disc herniation pressing on the nerve root.
Herniated discs often do not need to heal at all. That is because most minor and moderate herniated discs are not painful or problematic in any way. They merely exist. In fact, herniated discs are a common side effect of normal spinal aging.