1. Alkanes-Are saturated hydrocarbons that therefore contain only hydrogen and carbon atoms bonded to each other, and typically follow the chemical formula C n H 2n+2. A common example is paraffin. 2. Alkenes-These unsaturated hydrocarbons are molecules that contain at least one carbon-to-carbon double bond
The alkane is saturated while the alkene is unsaturated. All hydrocarbons are saturated or unsaturated. Saturated hydrocarbons have only single carbon to carbon bonds. Like soil that is saturated with water and no more water can be absorbed into it. In that alkanes very rarely react while alkenes are highly reactive. Alkenes readily react with halides, alcohols, and hydrogen to name a few. Alkene bromination, or halogen addition reaction, is one of the more well know reactions because it is used to determine if an organic molecule is
Methane is a saturated hydrocarbon. Saturated hydrocarbons are hydrocarbons that contain no rings and contain only single bonds between the different atoms. Methane is the simplest hydrocarbon because it contains only one carbon atom. Hydrocarbons with carbon-carbon double bonds are called alkenes. Hydrocarbons with carbon-carbon triple bonds are called alkynes. And hydrocarbons that contain rings of carbon atoms that are joined by alternating single and double bonds are called aromatic.
Alkanes are saturated hydrocarbons. Saturated means that the hydrocarbon has only single bonds and that the hydrocarbon contains the maximum number of hydrogen atoms for each carbon atom. Unsaturated hydrocarbons contain multiple bonding and contain less than the maximum number of hydrogens per carbon. Ethane, C2H6, is an alkane and is an example of a saturated hydrocarbon. Ethene, C2H4, is an alkene and is an example of unsaturated hydrocarbon. Ethyne, C2H2, is an alkyne and is also an example of unsaturated hydrocarbon. Aromatic compounds are unsaturated hydrocarbons and contain a benzene ring.
HYDROCARBONS. These compounds form the simplest form of lipids, they contain only carbon and hydrogen. They may be divided into aliphatic hydrocarbons with a carbon chain which may be linear (normal), branched, saturated (alkanes) or unsaturated (alcenes), cyclic hydrocarbons and carotenoids. 
Hydrocarbons that contain rings or double bonds are called unsaturated hydrocarbons, which are the opposite of saturated hydrocarbons. Alkanes-such as cyclohexane, which is an important precursor to nylon-that contain rings of carbon atoms are unsaturated. Another example of a hydrocarbon is ethylene. Hydrocarbons with carbon-carbon double bonds are called alkenes. Hydrocarbons with carbon-carbon triple bonds are called alkynes. And hydrocarbons that contain rings of carbon atoms that are joined by alternating single and double bonds are called aromatic.
Report Abuse. Alkanes are saturated. They have the maximum number of Hydrogen atoms attached. They have single sigma bonds between the carbon and hydrogen atoms. The alkenes are unsaturated and have double bonds consisting of a single sigma bond and a pi bond. The sigma bonds are much stronger than pi bonds
Hydrocarbons that contain only carbon-to-carbon single bonds are called alkanes. These are also referred to as saturated molecules. Hydrocarbons containing at least one carbon-to-carbon double bond are called alkenes, and compounds with at least one carbon-to-carbon triple bond are called alkynes. 
Hydrocarbons are compounds made from carbon and hydrogen atoms joined by covalent bonds. Alkanes are saturated-they have only single bonds. Alkenes have a double bond-they are unsaturated. Alkenes react with brown bromine water and decolourise it, but alkanes do not. Alkenes can act as monomers. 