Mostly, pink-colored lotus flower is shown as a symbol in Hindu mythology. Lotus is also an important symbol in other religions like Buddhism and Jainism. Brahma, who is one of the three important deities of Hindus, is always depicted as meditating on the flower of lotus. Lotus is a symbol of etiquette and culture in Hinduism. In Latin, lotus is called as Nelumbo Nucifera. It is also known as Kamal in Hindi and Marathi. It is an auspicious as well as one of the most important symbols in Hinduism.
The lotus is one of the most well-known symbols of Buddhism. The lotus flower is one of the Eight Auspicious Symbols in the religion, and is one of the most important images in the faith. The roots of a lotus flower extend into the mud and the stem grows up through the water and the flower blossoms above the surface
The ultimate lotus flower meaning in the Hindu belief system is that the lotus flower symbol represents awakening to the spiritual reality of life. The opening of a lotus flower represents rising from primal thought and base energies to highest spiritual consciousness. The lotus flower in Hinduism has many layers of symbolism. The lotus appears in creation stories, enlightenment stories, and in association with the chakras. Like the Egyptian lotus flower symbolism mentioned on the last page, Hindus have a creation story with a lotus as well.
Perhaps one of the strongest associations of the lotus flower with religion is that that is observed in Hinduism. In this religion the lotus flower meaning is associated with beauty, fertility, prosperity, spirituality, and eternity. The most common lotus form seen in Hinduism is the white lotus flower. Many of the gods and goddesses of Hinduism are linked to the flower, for example the goddess of prosperity, Laxmi, is usually depicted as being seated atop a fully opened lotus flower. Another interesting fact about the lotus flower meaning to the Egyptians was the way that it was used as a symbol for the unification of the two Egyptian kingdoms, that is to say the bonding of upper and lower Egypt.
In Hindu, Buddhist and Egyptian religions, the lotus is considered a sacred flower. Among its many meanings and significance, the lotus is a symbol of spontaneous generation, and so it also represents divine birth, spiritual development and creation itself. The lotus also represents purity and non-attachment, and is a symbol of Bhakti or love for God. Most people let their love flow towards the mundan world. But a devotee redirects his love only towards God, who resides with in one s heart.
The Lotus, the national flower of India, is a symbol of supreme reality. Hindu religion and mythology portray goddess Saraswathi, the muse of learning, as being seated on a lotus flower. To the Indian psyche, the lotus is more than a flower – it represents both beauty and non-attachment. 
In the Hindu religion, the Lotus flower is an flower that with every god and goddess. The Supreme Personality … of Godhead, Vishnu, holds the lotus flower. Other Goddess and God holds the lotus flower. The Lotus Flower is the symbol of Peace.    The Lotus was an important symbol for Ancient Egypt because it is the only flower which fruits and flowers at the same time. They considered it a symbol of creation, the sun, and rebirth.    In Christianity, the white lotus symbolizes the Virgin Mary.
The Lotus Flower, Hindu God's Favorite Flower. Both in worship and in portrayals of the divine, Hindus are infatuated with lotus flowers. The very name of the Hindu worship ritual, puja, can be translated as flower act.. The lotus is the foremost symbol of beauty, prosperity and fertility. According to Hinduism, within each human is the spirit of the sacred lotus. It represents eternity, purity, divinity, and is widely used as a symbol of life, fertility, ever-renewing youth. For Buddhists, the lotus flower symbolizes the most exalted state of human; head held high, pure and undefiled in the sun, feet rooted in the world of experience. There is a story that the lotus arose from the navel of God Vishnu, and at the center of the flower sat Brahma.
Lotus Flower is one of the most popular symbols in Hindu religion. It is believed that Lord Brahma emerged from the navel of Lord Vishnu sitting on a lotus. Goddess Saraswati, the Hindu Goddess of learning, is shown sitting on a lotus. Lotus flower is a symbol of eternity, plenty and good fortune and Goddess Lakshmi, the Hindu goddess of wealth, is usually depicted with a lotus flower. Lotus flower is frequently mentioned in the ancient Sanskrit Hindu scriptures, as padma (pink lotus), kamala (red lotus), pundarika (white lotus) and utpala (blue lotus). The earliest reference can be found in the Rg Veda. Numerous gods and goddess in Hindu pantheon are depicted as sitting on the lotus or carrying it.