According to the report, an area is classified as 'affordable' if the average house price there is lower than the price a key worker on average earnings can afford to pay. This is based on the historical house price to average earnings ratio of 4.0.
If you're looking for the perfect home for less, or want to buy or rent a home affordably, you've come to the right place. Homematch is a new service from Metropolitan who has over 30 years experience delivering affordable housing products. We have successfully assisted over 100,000 households into a home of their own.
According to the report, Hammersmith and Fulham is the second least affordable area for key workers in all of these occupation categories. The report is not based on those working in entry-level positions but on the following average annual salaries:
Key Worker Rent. Key Worker Living is a government funded scheme that helps Key Workers in London, the South East and East of England to buy or rent a home at an affordable price. Affinity Sutton provides key worker rented accommodation. We have a number of properties available in the South East of England.
Families who pay more than 30 percent of their income for housing are considered cost burdened and may have difficulty affording necessities such as food, clothing, transportation and medical care. An estimated 12 million renter and homeowner households now pay more than 50 percent of their annual incomes for housing.
Key Worker Living is a government funded scheme that helps Key Workers in London, the South East and East of England to buy or rent a home at an affordable price. Affinity Sutton provides key worker rented accommodation. We have a number of properties available in the South East of England.
1. You may be able to get financial help through a government home ownership scheme if you live in England and can’t afford to buy a home. Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland have different home ownership schemes. The 4 types of home ownership schemes are: