Leiomyoma: A benign tumor of smooth muscle, the type of muscle that is found in the heart and uterus. A leiomyoma of the uterus is commonly called a fibroid. Uterine fibroids are the single most common indication for hysterectomy. Fibroids can be present and be inapparent. 
Uterine leiomyomas are common, benign (noncancerous) tumors located in the uterus (womb). They are composed of smooth muscle that is gradually replaced by fibrous connective tissue (hence their common name, fibroids). Leiomyomas are distinct, firm and round. They often occur in groups. They are classified according to their location. 
Overview. Leiomyomas of the urterus (or uterine fibroids) are benign tumors that arise from the overgrowth of smooth muscle and connective tissue in the uterus. Histologically, a monoclonal proliferation of smooth muscle cells occurs. A genetic predisposition to leiomyoma growth exists. 
Leiomyomas of the uterus are one of the most common pathologic abnormalities of the female genital tract. Their occurrence increases with age, and they are found in 20–50% of women older than 30 years. Although found elsewhere in the body, leiomyomas most frequently occur in the myometrium. Clinical problems associated with leiomyomas are related to pregnancy, infertility, abnormal bleeding, large masses, pain, and sarcomatous changes. Pregnancy is the most complex area in which fibroids have an impact, caused by the fact that fibroids can affect the pregnancy, and pregnancy can affect the fibroids.
Uterine fibroids, also known as uterine leiomyoma, myoma, fibromyoma, fibroleiomyoma, are benign smooth muscle tumors of the uterus. Most women have no symptoms while others may have painful or heavy periods. If they push on the bladder a frequent need to urinate may occur. 
Leiomyoma of uterus, commonly known as fibroids, are well-circumscribed, non-cancerous tumors arising from the myometrium (smooth muscle layer) from the uterus. In addition to smooth muscle, leiomyomas are also composed of extracellular matrix (i.e., collagen, proteoglycan, fibronectin). 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A leiomyoma (plural leiomyomas or leiomyomata) (leio- + myo- + -oma, smooth-muscle tumor) is a benign smooth muscle neoplasm that very rarely becomes cancer (0.1%). They can occur in any organ, but the most common forms occur in the uterus, small bowel, and the esophagus. Leiomyoma enucleated from a uterus. As other leiomyomata, they are benign, but may lead to excessive menstrual bleeding (menorrhagia), often cause anemia and may lead to infertility. A rare form of these tumors is uterine lipoleiomyoma-benign tumors consisting of a mixture of adipocytes and smooth muscle cells.
leiomyoma. a benign tumor derived from smooth muscle, most often of the uterus (leiomyoma uteri) but can occur in urinary bladder, upper intestinal tract and esophagus. leiomyoma uteri. leiomyoma of the uterus; called also colloquially, fibroids. epithelioid leiomyoma one in which the cells are polygonal rather than spindle shaped, usually found in the stomach. Called also bizarre leiomyoma and leiomyofibroma. leiomyoma u´teri (uterine leiomyoma) leiomyoma of the uterus; called also uterine myoma and, colloquially, fibroids. It is the most common of all tumors found in women. It may occur in any part of the uterus, although it is most frequently in the body of the organ