1 Lavender oil-lavender is considered to be particularly effective against flies. 2  It has many other household uses as well. 3  Citronella oil-this ingredient is commonly used in candles meant to keep flies and other bugs away. 4  Eucalyptus oil-another great essential oil you can use around the house for all types of purposes. Avoid getting repellent in your eyes or mouth. 1  You can use this formula on most clothing as well. 2  Do not spray this on children or pets without verifying the safety of the oil involved. 3  Remember, never apply undiluted essential oil to your skin.
Citronella oil is an essential oil extracted from the different species of Cymbopogon (lemon grass). It’s considered a biopesticide and non-toxic. Burning a citronella oil candle or incense sticks will not only repel flies, but mosquitos too. Sprinkle a little eucalyptus oil on a scrap of cloth and place near entrances. Fly repellent plants for the garden. Some species of plants you may be able to grow in your yard depending on your local climate conditions can help discourage flies. These include Lemon balm, Catnip, Mint, Chrysanthemums and Marigolds.
1 citronella: Not only does citronella help to repel flies in your garden, according to Winger, but also ants, fleas, gnats, mosquitoes, moths, nematodes and ticks. Seven of the top essential oils you can use in your fly spray concoctions include citronella, pine, peppermint, lavender, patchouli, sandalwood and rosemary.
The tropical ornamental grass, citronella (Cymbopogon nardus), is the source of commercial citronella oil, used for candles and other insect-repelling products. The fragrant plants can also help keep flies and other insects away from your garden space. Although there is little scientific evidence to support the practice of using plants as a natural method of repelling pests, many gardeners swear by insect-repellent plants that keep flies and other garden pests away from the outdoor space.
1 It has many other household uses as well. 2  Citronella oil-this ingredient is commonly used in candles meant to keep flies and other bugs away. 3  Eucalyptus oil-another great essential oil you can use around the house for all types of purposes. Avoid getting repellent in your eyes or mouth. 1  You can use this formula on most clothing as well. 2  Do not spray this on children or pets without verifying the safety of the oil involved. 3  Remember, never apply undiluted essential oil to your skin.
Certain plants can repel pesky flies naturally in the garden. Although there is little scientific evidence to support the practice of using plants as a natural method of repelling pests, many gardeners swear by insect-repellent plants that keep flies and other garden pests away from the outdoor space.
Seven Essential Oils. Seven of the top essential oils you can use in your fly spray concoctions include citronella, pine, peppermint, lavender, patchouli, sandalwood and rosemary. 1  citronella: Not only does citronella help to repel flies in your garden, according to Winger, but also ants, fleas, gnats, mosquitoes, moths, nematodes and tick
Repelling Gnats. Gnat repellants containing botanical oils are common. Oil of citronella, lemongrass, cedarwood, garlic, spearmint, lemon mint or cinnamon can be sprayed in areas where gnats congregate. Alternatively, crush fresh leaves of those plants and rub the leaves on skin to deter gnats that bite.
1 These herbs act as a natural insect repellent while also being good for other purposes such as culinary, cleaning, and medical ones. 2  You can also use essential oils on cotton balls or strips of material which are placed in strategic locations to help repel flies. 1 Use scents, herbs, essential oils and plants – flies dislike certain scents and plants, such as pine, citronella, lavender, peppermint, cedar and citrus, as well as several other aromas.
This outdoor fly repellant can be placed in the center of your patio table to repel flies throughout the day and evening. It's a simple mix of essential oils and a carrier oil that will help diffuse the scent into the air, naturally keeping flies away. Here's what you'll need: 1  A small tin with a lid. Avoid getting repellent in your eyes or mouth. 1  You can use this formula on most clothing as well. 2  Do not spray this on children or pets without verifying the safety of the oil involved. 3  Remember, never apply undiluted essential oil to your skin.