Email. Amazon claims that a $79 annual membership for Amazon Prime provides free two-day shipping on millions of items, but for some products, the company is accused of encouraging sellers to inflate shipping prices, according to two recent lawsuits. 
About the Amazon Prime Membership Charge. At the end of the Amazon Prime free trial or annual membership period, your card will be charged CDN $79 automatically for the next membership period. The $79 annual charge for Amazon Prime includes FREE Two-Day Shipping. If you didn't intend to convert your membership to a full 12-month membership, you can cancel your Amazon Prime membership on the Manage Prime Membership page. If you haven't placed an Amazon Prime-eligible order, you are eligible for a full refund. 
Amazon. Amazon's Prime premium service just got a little more expensive. For the first time, the online retailing giant will raise the membership fee for Prime, hiking it by $20 to $99 a year. Amazon Student Prime will rise $10 to $49 a year. Prime members will pay the higher fee when their accounts come up for renewal. 
This is how a paid subscription to Amazon Prime quickly became one of life’s necessary luxuries. Annual membership costs $79 and offers free two-day shipping on an ever-growing selection of products, as well as free streaming of many movies and TV shows. In addition to Prime membership, the company also offers a discount program for baby supplies (Amazon Mom), and automated deliveries (Amazon Subscribe & Save). 
Help & Customer Service. Amazon Prime offers multiple shipping benefits, including FREE Two-Day Shipping for eligible purchases. Members also get access to Amazon Instant Video and the ability to borrow books from the Kindle Owners' Lending Library. 
Netflix charges a monthly fee of $7.99 per month, which comes out to $95.88 per year. Amazon Prime costs $99 per year, which comes out to about $8.25 per month. Forgetting the nice shipping benefits you get with Prime, you pay about the same. If both services had the same library of options, you could justify a Prime membership in an instant.
The retailer told the 25 million members of its Amazon Prime program on Thursday that it was increasing the annual fee for the two-day shipping service by 25 percent, to $99. The new price takes effect on the renewal dates for existing customers, starting April 17. 
Amazon Prime pricing is increasing 25 percent, but there are still ways to avoid paying $99 a year for free shipping. Amazon announced Thursday that it will raise the price of its Prime service from $79 to $99 per year. Results showed 94 percent of Amazon Prime customers were likely to renew at the $79 price point, but if price increased by $20, only 58 percent were likely to renew. (For a detailed calculation to see if you should foot the bill and pay for the now-$99 service, try Slate's Amazon Prime widget .).
Amazon competitor ShopRunner jumped right in to the action following Amazon's announcement by offering existing Amazon Prime members a complimentary one-year membership of unlimited two-day shipping for switching. Normally, ShopRunner members will pay a $79 annual membership fee and $8.95 per month for the service. Results showed 94 percent of Amazon Prime customers were likely to renew at the $79 price point, but if price increased by $20, only 58 percent were likely to renew. (For a detailed calculation to see if you should foot the bill and pay for the now-$99 service, try Slate's Amazon Prime widget .).
A.: Amazon Prime is a paid service (Free 30-day trial, $99 per year) that gives Amazon shoppers a few distinct advantages. Members of Amazon Prime are eligible for: 1  Free two-day shipping on any eligible item without a minimum-order balance, and free same-day delivery (in 14 metro areas) on eligible orders more than $35. 1 Free two-day shipping on any eligible item without a minimum-order balance, and free same-day delivery (in 14 metro areas) on eligible orders more than $35. 2  Prime Pantry Delivery costs a flat $5.99 for delivery of heavy and bulky items.