An epileptic aura is the consequence of the activation of functional cortex by abnormal, unilateral, and brief neuronal discharge. In addition to being a warning sign to an upcoming seizure, the nature of an aura can give insight into the localization and lateralization of the seizure or migraine. Auras are particularly common in focal seizures. If the motor cortex is involved in the over excitation of neurons, motor auras can result. Likewise, somatosensory auras (such as tingling, numbness, and pain) can result if in the somatosensory cortex.
Headache is considered the symptom common to all types of migraines -- although a few children experience an aura without a headache. Migraine pain usually occurs in the front of the head on one or both sides of the temples. 
The time between the appearance of the aura and the migraine lasts from a few seconds up to an hour. The aura can stay with a migraine sufferer for the duration of the migraine; depending on the type of aura, it can leave the person disoriented and confused. Auras are particularly common in focal seizures. If the motor cortex is involved in the over excitation of neurons, motor auras can result. Likewise, somatosensory auras (such as tingling, numbness, and pain) can result if in the somatosensory cortex.
The possibilities of what you might see by looking at someone's aura are endless. And learning to read and protect your own aura can be important to your physical, emotional and spiritual health. You don't have to be a mystic to read an aura. Appreciate the benefits of seeing auras. Learning to see someone's aura can tell you a great deal about that person and his or her character. Learning to see your own aura can inspire you to make changes that will improve the signals that your radiate.
How to see and READ the AURA: Part 3. Seeing the Aura This exercise is designed to see Aura for the first time and/or practice seeing Auras. Choosing good conditions is important: not only you see the Aura better, but also to gain a confidence about what you see. Situate the person in front of a very softly illuminated PLAIN WHITE background. 
Migraine with aura is a relatively new name for the less common type of migraine headache. Aura refers to feelings and symptoms you notice shortly before the headache begins. These early symptoms are also called a prodrome. Scientists aren't sure what causes migraines with aura. It's thought that at least two brain chemicals -- serotonin and dopamine -- play a role. According to the theory, something goes awry in the way these chemicals regulate brain function. This may cause the brain and the body's immune system to overreact. 
aura. a peculiar sensation preceding the appearance of more definite symptoms. An epileptic aura precedes an epileptic seizure and may involve visual disturbances, dizziness, numbness, or any of a number of sensations which the patient may find difficult to describe exactly. aura. a peculiar sensation preceding the appearance of more definite symptoms. It is a well-known phenomenon in humans and, on good clinical grounds, assumed to occur in animals, appearing as behavioral abnormalities.
Learn all about auras, how to read auras, how to see your aura, aura colors and what each aura color means. All living things that need oxygen to survive have an aura. They generate a large magnetic energy field that can be sensed, felt and even seen around the physical body. An aura is usually 3 feet from your physical body, however an incest or rape survivor has an aura about 50 feet around them, which means in a movie theater or a bus/train you sit in their stuff!!! I can clean this for you. Auras are commonly associated with people.
In parapsychology and spiritual practice, an aura is a supposed field of subtle, luminous radiation surrounding a person or object like the halo or aureola in religious art. The depiction of such an aura often connotes a person of particular power or holiness. According to Bruce auras are not actual light but a translation of other unknown sensory readings that is added to our visual processing. They are not seen in complete darkness and cannot be seen unless some portion of the person or object emitting the aura can also be seen.
The aura is the electromagnetic field that surrounds the human body (Human Energy Field-HEF) and every organism and object in the Universe. The Human Energy Field as a collection of electro-magnetic energies of varying densities that permeate through and emit or exit from the physical body of a living person. RED AURA COLOR MEANING: Relates to the physical body, hart or circulation.The densest color, it creates the most friction. Friction attracts or repels; money worries or obsessions; anger or unforgiveness; anxiety or nervousness. Deep Red: Grounded, realistic, active, strong will-power, survival-oriented.