You can smooth the hard edges of a selection by feathering. Feathering blurs edges by building a transition between the selection and surrounding pixels. This blurring can cause some loss of detail at the edge of the selection. You can create a feathered selection with the Elliptical Marquee, Rectangular Marquee, Lasso, Polygonal Lasso, or Magnetic Lasso tool. You can also add feathering to an existing selection by using the Select menu.
Now is the time to apply layer mask to our shape. Right click on the layer mask and select Apply layer mask. Congratulations, you now know how to smooth edges of a shape in Photoshop.
To refine the edges of a selection: 1  Create a selection. 2  With your selection tool still chosen, click Refine Edge on the Options bar or press Ctrl-Alt-R/Cmd-Option-R. 3  Set the zoom level to 100% or 200% by pressing Ctrl- +/Cmd- +.
Open the photo with the rough edges in Adobe Photoshop CS5, and then select the Blur tool from the toolbox. Step 2. Hold down Alt and use the mouse scroll wheel to zoom in on the section of the image with the rough edges. Alternatively, use the Zoom tool to view the jagged edges from close-up.
(Shortcut: Hold down the Ctrl key and click on the channel to select the shape). a. Now go back to the layer palette and make sure you have the shape layer selected and fill the selection with your chosen color.
You can smooth the hard edges of a selection by anti-aliasing or feathering. Anti-aliasing smoothes the jagged edges of a selection by softening the color transition between edge pixels and background pixels. Because only the edge pixels change, no detail is lost.
Nothing really, it's just the way I work and believe me, I have spent a lot of time trying to find an easier way to do this. So, I'm going to show you step by step how to smooth your corners without getting the jaggy edges. a. Create a new file in Photoshop.
Project 6 guide Adobe Photoshop CS6 4 How to blend, feather, and smooth © 2012 Adobe Systems Incorporated 21. Click in the new layer to add a new background color.Observe that the background layer now displays a thumbnail of a solid color (Figure 9).