Expulsion, exclusion or withdrawing, refers to the removal/banning of a student from a school system or university for an extensive period amount of time due to a student persistently violating that institution's rules, or for a single offense of appropriate severity in extreme cases. 
If exclusion is to go ahead, a head teacher must inform parents or guardians of the period of exclusion, give reasons and inform parents that they have recourse to the school governors if they wish to have the decision reviewed. Most school governing bodies have a discipline committee to consider such reviews. They have the power to reinstate an excluded pupil after due deliberation. The governor's decision to uphold an exclusion may be appealed to an independent panel established by the local education authority. A pupil's education continues to be the responsibility of a school during all fixed periods of exclusion and until a permanent exclusion is finalis
You may be aware that your child has a problem at school either because your child has told you or you have been told by the school, another parent or your child's sister or brother. Wherever possible, you should discuss the problem and ways of sorting it out with your child before taking any other action. If you have a complaint about another problem at school, you might be able to make a complaint to another organisation. In England, you can find more information about who to complain to on the Local Government Ombudsman website at: www.lgo.org.uk.
Sometimes children miss a lot of school because they have emotional problems that make it hard for them to be in school. Sometimes children are being bullied by another child and are afraid to go to school. The school must ask to talk with you about solving the problems that are causing your child to miss school. Be sure to go to the meetings to talk with school staff about how to help your child. When the school meets with you, they should talk about ways to fix these problems so your child can feel comfortable at school. You have the right to ask that your child be evaluated for special education services. Do this in writing.
It is important for every child to attend school. Children have the right to be in school until they are 21 if they have not gotten a diploma. You are responsible for making sure that your child attends school from age 5 (you may sign a form asking that your child starts school at 6 or 7) to age 18 (or graduation). Be sure to go to the meetings to talk with school staff about how to help your child. When the school meets with you, they should talk about ways to fix these problems so your child can feel comfortable at school. You have the right to ask that your child be evaluated for special education services. Do this in writing.
A pupil who does not consider English to be their first language may be able to have teaching in that language at school. Although there is no requirement for local education authorities or governing bodies to provide it, you could find out if they have a policy and if so, try to get them to enforce the policy. If you have a complaint about another problem at school, you might be able to make a complaint to another organisation. In England, you can find more information about who to complain to on the Local Government Ombudsman website at: www.lgo.org.uk.
Discrimination because of religion or belief in schools. It is against the law for a school, college or local education authority to discriminate against a pupil or against the parents of a pupil because of their religion or belief. Discrimination against someone with no religion is also against the law. If you have a complaint about another problem at school, you might be able to make a complaint to another organisation. In England, you can find more information about who to complain to on the Local Government Ombudsman website at: www.lgo.org.uk.
The people who have the right to see school records are the pupil themselves and their parents. You must be allowed to see your child’s school record if you make a written request to do so. You must also be supplied with a copy of the record if you ask for it in writing. If you have a complaint about another problem at school, you might be able to make a complaint to another organisation. In England, you can find more information about who to complain to on the Local Government Ombudsman website at: www.lgo.org.uk.
The guidance makes it clear that the removal of a pupil from the school environment should be used only as a last resort in response to 'serious breaches' of a school's behaviour policy or to safeguard the welfare and education of other pupils. Most school governing bodies have a discipline committee to consider such reviews. They have the power to reinstate an excluded pupil after due deliberation. The governor's decision to uphold an exclusion may be appealed to an independent panel established by the local education authority.
(b) Expulsion.—Public school students and their parents have the right to written notice of a recommendation of expulsion, including the charges against the student and a statement of the right of the student to due process, in accordance with the provisions of s. 1006.08(1). 1006.13(6), students who have been victims of certain felony offenses by other students, as well as the siblings of the student victims, have the right to be kept separated from the student offender both at school and during school transportation.