Implantation typically occurs 6 to 10 days after ovulation, or day 20 to 24 of a menstrual cycle. However, it can happen a few days earlier or later. In an average 28-day cycle, ovulation occurs on day 14 with the first day of a woman's period being considered day 1 in a cycle. Implantation happens when a fertilized egg attaches itself to the uterine wall. Once fertilization occurs, the fertilized egg remains in the fallopian tube for 3 days. It then enters the uterus where it gets very close to the lining of the uterus (endometrium) and begins to invade this endometrium to implant.
Conception occurs when a sperm cell from a fertile man swims up through the vagina and into the uterus of a woman and joins with the woman’s egg cell as it travels down one of the fallopian tubes from the ovary to the uterus. Ovulation is a phase in the menstrual cycle. It occurs at about day 14 of a 28-day menstrual cycle. Specifically, ovulation is the release of the egg (ovum) from a woman’s ovary.
When does conception occur? Yes, in general you have just 24 hours to conceive, but some preparations for conception start much earlier, approximately 5-7 days before ovulation. Spermatozoa, which have got inside the uterus or Fallopian tubes, can wait for ovulation from several hours up to 7 days! Every woman, who is planning pregnancy in the nearest future, wants to know when fertilization and implantation occur. It is important to detect the most fertile days for conception, which usually happen in the middle of the menstrual cycle – during
The Association estimates that ovulation occurs anywhere between 11-21 days after the first day of your last menstrual period (LMP), or 12-16 days from when you expect the next menstrual period to start. Order a Fertility Kit or Monitor. A woman cannot ovulate more than once during each cycle. Therefore, she cannot get pregnant more than once during a cycle. Multiple ovulation can occur and is when two or more eggs are released in a single cycle. Both eggs are released during one 24 hour period and are responsible for the birth of fraternal twins.
The question is often asked exactly when conception occurs, especially if intercourse and ovulation are on separate days. There are many things that come into play here leading up to conception. I will explain each to give you a clearer picture of this wonderful process. I believe that conception happens the minute the sperm and egg combine. This happens within 24 hours after ovulation occurs. The body will not know it’s pregnant until the fertilized egg implants into the uterine wall, some 5 to 12 days after ovulation. Before implantation, there is nothing going on inside the body to detect pregnancy
Short answer: Conception occurs when the egg is released from the ovary at ovulation and meets (is fertilized by) the sperm waiting in the fallopian tube. One sperm burrows into the wall of the egg which signals cells to grow and develop. This is the moment of conception, occurring within about 24 hours of ovulation. Fertilization of the egg by the sperm is the actual moment of conception, occurring within about 24 hours after ovulation. With most instances of conception happening within 12 hours of ovulation. Successful conception, however, does not occur until the embryo implants into the endometrium of the uterus. This is when you are considered officially pregnant. Which happens about a week to 10 days after
If you have normal 28 day cycles, you wouldn’t have ovulated yet. Ovulation usually occurs about 14 days before your period starts. Unless you had a really weird cycle this month, the chances of you being pregnant from the sex 5 days ago is pretty slim. 
Most of the time, you won't know the exact day you got pregnant. Your doctor will count the start of your pregnancy from the first day of your last menstrual period. That's about 2 weeks ahead of when conception happens. Here's a primer on conception : Ovulation. Each month inside your ovaries, a group of eggs starts to grow in small, fluid-filled sacs called follicles. Eventually, one of the eggs erupts from the follicle (ovulation).