First, it is important to remember that the skins and seeds of cucumbers are both rich in nutrients. In fact, the nutrient richness of both plant parts is significantly higher than the flesh. For this reason, consumption of both skins and seeds is desirable from a nutritional standpoint. All cucumbers belong to the botanical plant family called Curcubitaceae. This broad family of plants includes melons and squashes. The cucumbers we're most familiar with in the grocery store belong to the specific genus/species group, Cucumis sativus.
In a 100 gram serving, raw cucumber (with peel) is 95% water, provides 16 calories and supplies low content of essential nutrients, as it is notable only for vitamin K at 16% of the Daily Value (table). Cucumber (Cucumis sativus) is a widely cultivated plant in the gourd family, Cucurbitaceae. It is a creeping vine that bears cylindrical fruits that are used as culinary vegetables. There are three main varieties of cucumber: slicing, pickling, and burpless.
Drink cucumber juice as a source of vitamin K. Vegetables should help form the foundation of your diet -- women need 2.5 cups daily and men need 3 cups, recommends the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Each cup of cucumber juice counts as 1 cup of veggies to help you reach these intake goals. 
“Cucumbers are naturally low in calories, carbohydrates, sodium, fat and cholesterol,” said Megan Ware, a registered dietitian nutritionist in Orlando, Florida. There are just 16 calories in a cup of cucumber with its peel (15 without). These low-calorie veggies contain many nutritional benefits, including hydrating properties and valuable nutrients. There are hundreds of varieties of cucumber, and they come in dozens of colors, but all are classified into two edible types: slicing and pickling, according to Cornell University’s Growing Guide.
The peel and seeds are the most nutrient-dense parts of the cucumber. They contain fiber and beta-carotene, a form of vitamin A that is good for eyes, reports Livestrong.com. A study published in the Pakistan Journal of Nutrition found that cucumber seeds were a good source of minerals, and contained calcium. These low-calorie veggies contain many nutritional benefits, including hydrating properties and valuable nutrients. There are hundreds of varieties of cucumber, and they come in dozens of colors, but all are classified into two edible types: slicing and pickling, according to Cornell University’s Growing Guide.
In addition to the nutrients highlighted in our ratings chart, an in-depth nutritional profile for Cucumbers is also available. This profile includes information on a full array of nutrients, including carbohydrates, sugar, soluble and insoluble fiber, sodium, vitamins, minerals, fatty acids, amino acids and more. All cucumbers belong to the botanical plant family called Curcubitaceae. This broad family of plants includes melons and squashes. The cucumbers we're most familiar with in the grocery store belong to the specific genus/species group, Cucumis sativus.
It contains no saturated fats or cholesterol. Cucumber peel is a good source of dietary fiber that helps reduce constipation, and offers some protection against colon cancers by eliminating toxic compounds from the gut. It is a very good source of potassium, an important intracellular electrolyte. 100 g of cucumber provides 147 mg of potassium but only 2 mg of sodium. Potassium is a heart friendly electrolyte helps bring a reduction in total blood pressure and heart rates by countering effects of sodium. Just remember your backyard, humble crunchy cucumber! Nonetheless, this wonderful low calorie vegetable indeed has more nutrients to offer than just water and electrolytes. It is one of the oldest cultivated crops, and believed to be originating in the northern sub-Himalayan plains of India.
1 It's highly likely that cucumber phytonutrients play a key role in providing these antioxidant and anti-inflammatory benefits, supporting health alongside of the conventional antioxidant nutrients—including vitamin C, beta-carotene, and manganese—of which cucumbers are an important source. All cucumbers belong to the botanical plant family called Curcubitaceae. This broad family of plants includes melons and squashes. The cucumbers we're most familiar with in the grocery store belong to the specific genus/species group, Cucumis sativus.
Nutritional profile. Cucumbers are good sources of phytonutrients (plant chemicals that have protective or disease preventive properties) such flavonoids, lignans and triterpenes, which have antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and anti-cancer benefits, according to World’s Healthiest Foods. These low-calorie veggies contain many nutritional benefits, including hydrating properties and valuable nutrients. There are hundreds of varieties of cucumber, and they come in dozens of colors, but all are classified into two edible types: slicing and pickling, according to Cornell University’s Growing Guide.
Vitamins in Cucumber. Cucumber is rich in a number of essential vitamins, including vitamin K, also known as the clotting vitamin. Vitamin K is essential for helping your blood clot, and the recommended daily amount is 90 micrograms for adults over the age of 19. A half-cup serving of sliced cucumber also contains 12 milligrams of phosphorus, 7 milligrams of magnesium, and 8 milligrams of calcium. Cucumbers are also rich in potassium, containing 76 milligrams per half cup serving of sliced cucumbers.