In construction, cladding is used to provide a layer of protection to the exterior of a building against the weather. The materials used may be a combination of metals, aluminum, or plastic. This material is most commonly installed around windows, doors, roofs, and chimneys.
Plywood sheeting may be used for cladding in a more rustic style house. Building cladding will need a moisture barrier to help prevent the growth of mold. Buliding cladding is also known as siding in North America. Vinyl siding is a popular exterior cladding.
Exterior cladding is a protective layer of materials that separates a building's structure and interior from exterior elements, such as weather and sound. The exterior cladding is often not one material but an assembly of materials, and each material has its own importance in blocking exterior conditions.
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. Building cladding is the exterior skin, or envelope of a building, and includes all moisture barriers and siding materials used to cover the outside of the structure. Cladding can serve both a decorative and a functional purpose.
1 From its origins as a cheap and functional building material, steel cladding has, over the years, gradually become known for its aesthetic potential. 2  The interiors contain no drywall or plaster, and exterior cladding comprises cedar shingles and plywood.
Hypernyms (cladding is a kind of...): protection; protective cover; protective covering (a covering that is intend to protect from damage or injury). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of cladding): revetement; revetment; stone facing (a facing (usually masonry) that supports an embankment).
Once the structure has been framed or masonry walls have been erected, the building cladding can be installed to the exterior surfaces. First a moisture or vapor barrier is installed to protect against moisture penetration and minimize the risk of rot or mold.
Noun. 1. cladding-a protective covering that protects the outside of a building. facing. protective cover, protective covering, protection-a covering that is intend to protect from damage or injury; they had no protection from the fallout; wax provided protection for the floors.