Coconut Milk Benefits. Coconut milk is not the liquid that is drained from a coconut when you cut it open like many people assume. In order to make coconut milk you will take the coconut and process the flesh, steeping it in hot water and squeezing the milk out through a cheesecloth. As this liquid sits, the cream will rise to the top, which can be used for creamy applications like curries.
Coconut milk, as the name suggests is a liquid extracted from grated coconut. Don’t confuse it with coconut water as the latter is obtained from inside the coconut shells. Due to its rich and creamy consistency, it can be used as a milk substitute. In Southeast Asia, it is often used as a common food ingredient. Coconut milk can be used as make-up remover. You can mix coconut oil and milk in the ratio of 1:2 and use this concoction to remove eye make-up as well as moisturize skin. Thus, it is a great alternative for harsh alcohol ridden chemicals to get rid of make-up around the most sensitive area of your face.
Coconut milk is a creamy, rich liquid made from the meat of mature coconuts. It is a popular beverage in the Philippines, the Caribbean and anyplace where coconut trees are abundant. Coconut milk has the scent of a coconut and a slightly sweet taste. 
The rich, creamy flavor of coconut milk is derived from the high percentage of coconut oils in the meat. To make coconut milk, the meat is shredded and mixed with water. The mash is simmered and then strained through cheesecloth, squeezing out as much of the essence of the pulp as possible. In Asian and some tropical countries, canned coconut milk is found in several grades, from thin to thick. The thin milk is lower in fat, with less coconut cream, and is used in soups. The thicker milk, which can even a paste-like consistency, is used for curries and dry preparations.
Traditionally, coconut milk is acquired through the grating of a brown coconut, mixing the resulting substance with a small amount of water to dissolve the fat present in the grated meat. The grating process itself can be carried out manually or with a more modern grating machine. Coconut milk can be made at home by processing grated coconut with hot water or milk, which extracts the oil and aromatic compounds. It has then a fat content of 17-24% depending on the fat level of the coconut meat and the quantity of added water.
Coconut milk is the liquid that comes from the grated meat of a brown coconut. It should not be confused with coconut water. The color and rich taste of coconut milk can be attributed to the high oil content. Most of the fat is saturated fat. Coconut milk can be made at home by processing grated coconut with hot water or milk, which extracts the oil and aromatic compounds. It has then a fat content of 17-24% depending on the fat level of the coconut meat and the quantity of added water.
Coconut milk is derived from the flesh of the coconut. It is not the liquid that can be drained out from a coconut that has been punctured, although many people assume this. Getting coconut milk from a coconut requires some processing, but the ingredient is also available in cans or bottles. To make coconut milk, the coconut flesh must be finely grated and steeped in hot water. Next, the soaked pieces are squeezed through cheesecloth, and the liquid collected is coconut milk.
Look for fat content and note the amount of saturated fat in coconut milk – each 450-500 calorie cup contains about 50 grams of fat, of which 45 grams is saturated. “Many people confuse coconut milk with coconut water. The water is a thin liquid that is high in potassium and often used as a source of fluid to quench hydration,” says Taub-Dix. Coconut water is much lower in calories than coconut milk. Coconut water is about 45 calories per cup whereas coconut milk contains about 500 calories. (That’s six times what you'll find in a cup of skim milk — so a dairy replacement it is not.). 
This coconut water is consumed as a drink fresh from the coconut by many, and it can also be used in recipes. But coconut milk is a different thing entirely, and is a processed recipe ingredient or drink made from the meat of a mature, or brown, coconut. Properly made, it has little coconut flavor and is not sweet. In Asian and some tropical countries, canned coconut milk is found in several grades, from thin to thick. The thin milk is lower in fat, with less coconut cream, and is used in soups. The thicker milk, which can even a paste-like consistency, is used for curries and dry preparations.
Coconut milk is derived from the flesh of the coconut. It is not the liquid that can be drained out from a coconut that has been punctured, although many people assume this. Getting coconut milk from a coconut requires some processing, but the ingredient is also available in cans or bottles. 