The official language of Spain is Spanish (also known as Castilian), a standard language based on the mediaeval dialect of the Castilians of north-central Spain. There are several commonly spoken regional languages (mainly Basque, Catalan and Galician). The Spanish Roma, which belong to the Iberian Kale subgroup (cale), calé are a-formerly nomadic, community which spread Across Western, Asia North, africa And, europe first Reaching spain in the 15th. century
One approach defines a Hispanic or Latino as a member of an ethnic group that traces its roots to 20 Spanish-speaking nations from Latin America and Spain itself (but not Portugal or Portuguese-speaking Brazil). The other approach is much simpler. 
For example, race and Hispanic origin are used in the enforcement of Equal Employment Opportunity and other anti-discrimination laws. At 54 million, Hispanics make up 17% of the nation’s population, and they are projected to grow to be 29% of the U.S. population by 2060, according to the Census Bureau. Similar views are held among Hispanics who use Spanish as their main language (67%) and those who use English as their main language (66%). This finding sheds light on some of the challenges the Census Bureau has faced in asking Hispanics about their ethnic and racial background in surveys.
1 Hispanics also want future U.S. Hispanic generations to speak Spanish. 2  Fully 95% of Hispanics believe it is very important (75%) or somewhat important (20%) for future generations of Hispanics in the U.S. to be able to speak Spanish. 1 Most Hispanics use Spanish, but use of English rises through the generations. 2  The survey finds that 38% of all respondents are Spanish dominant, 38% are bilingual and 24% are English dominant. 3  Among U.S.-born Hispanics, more than half (51%)
Then, you may speak Spanish because you were raised in Spain, but that doesn’t mean you can “trace your heritage” to Spain. Only ethnic Spaniards (from Spain or elsewhere, eg. Latin America) can do so. Hispanics trace their heritage to Spanish-speaking countries (Spain, Mexico, Cuba, Argentina). By comparison, among the non-Hispanic U.S. population ages 5 and older, about two-thirds (64%) trace their ancestry to non-Spanish European countries, 13% say their ancestry is African American and 1% trace their heritage to a Spanish-speaking country.
Hispanic if you and/or your ancestry come from a country where they speak Spanish. Latino refers to geography. Specifically, to Latin America, to people from the Caribbean (Puerto Rico, Cuba, Dominican Republic), South America (Ecuador, Bolivia, Colombia, Peru, etc.) and Central America (Honduras, Costa Rica, etc.). 
Spaniards (Spanish: espanoles [españoles]) espaˈɲoles are a nation and ethnic group native To spain that share a Common spanish culture and speak The spanish language as a mother. Tongue Within spain there are a number of nationalisms and, regionalisms reflecting the'country s complex history and diverse. culture The Spanish Roma, which belong to the Iberian Kale subgroup (cale), calé are a-formerly nomadic, community which spread Across Western, Asia North, africa And, europe first Reaching spain in the 15th. century
The racial composition of non-Hispanic Spanish speakers mirrors that of the U.S. non-Hispanic population. Overall, three-quarters (77%) of non-Hispanics who speak Spanish at home are white, 14% are black, and 9% say they belong to some other racial group. By comparison, among the non-Hispanic U.S. population ages 5 and older, about two-thirds (64%) trace their ancestry to non-Spanish European countries, 13% say their ancestry is African American and 1% trace their heritage to a Spanish-speaking country.
1 Hispanic is used to refer to modern Spain, to the Spanish language, and to the Spanish-speaking nations of the world and particularly the Americas. 2  Spanish is used to refer to the people, nationality, culture, language and other things of Spain. 3  Spaniard is used to refer to the people of Spain. The term commonly applies to countries once colonized by Spain, particularly the countries of Latin America that were colonized by Spain. It could be argued that the term should apply to all Spanish-speaking cultures or countries, as the historical roots of the word specifically pertain to the Iberian region.
Chavacano, a Spanish-based creole language is spoken in the Philippines by 600,000 people. Filipino Spanish is natively spoken by 5,000 people but second-and third-language speakers range from 500,000 to 2,500,000. Hispanic influences have impacted several native languages, such as Tagalog, Cebuano and Ilocano. The term commonly applies to countries once colonized by Spain, particularly the countries of Latin America that were colonized by Spain. It could be argued that the term should apply to all Spanish-speaking cultures or countries, as the historical roots of the word specifically pertain to the Iberian region.