He finished uni 2 years ago and is now on over £25k. For a 23 year old, it's a great wage. As an outsider, I think any engineering career can be considered a good career-you can definitely progress and have training (not just a uni course) with the ability to earn quite a bit.
The systems engineer is the primary interface between management, customers, suppliers, and specialty engineers in the systems development process. While most have a background in other engineering disciplines, the career descriptor also has a lot to do with the ability and interest to think with a systems perspective. 
Best Answer: I have a masters in engineering. Yes math and physics are involved and so is creativity. However I would suggest you try to visit companies that employ engineers in a field that interest you. If you are a brilliant creative inventor naturally you may not need college at all. The GOOD thing about engineering is your don't have to take a traditional engineering job. I have a masters in mechanical engineering and worked in the aerospace field for years. However I am now an airline pilot.
show more Hi i am just wonderring if electrical engineer is a good career to go for .. i am in 1st year of A levels and in few months time i am going to have to apply for a university .. What is the major difference between Electronic and Electrical Engineering and just Electrical Engineering (EE) ... which one of them is... As an outsider, I think any engineering career can be considered a good career-you can definitely progress and have training (not just a uni course) with the ability to earn quite a bit.
“Software engineers are the rock stars of today's working world, and even computer systems analysts and web developers can claim some of that recognition, since the demand for IT pros is so deep.”. In fact, Software Engineers have the nation's overall best job, according to the CareerCast.com Jobs Rated report. Their pay is great, hiring demand for their skills is through the roof, and working conditions have never been better. I believe the future demand of civil engineers would be the result of our nations outdated and crumbling infrastructure. Moreover, the list is for best jobs which used varialbes such as stress, work environment, job outlook, and income.Working for a Fortune 50 as a mechanical engineer I can confirm 4 things. I make a very good living. I have a very very stressful job
Best Answer: Electronics engineering is similar to a technician job dealing with simple circuits and electrical engineering are engineers. Electrical engineers design the project and electronics engineers are the one assembling and maintaining the design made by the engineers. As an outsider, I think any engineering career can be considered a good career-you can definitely progress and have training (not just a uni course) with the ability to earn quite a bit.
Engineering is a tough discipline. Don't go into it just because of the of the future it in, there will always be jobs in all the engineering fields. A good portion of those who start in engineering do not graduate in engineering. Pick something you love. Electrical Engineering can be good, but as an EE I would say go for I & C. A dual EE / I & C is a killer background. A very broad understanding, EE, Electronics, I & C you probably can never be unemployed very long. I & C will pay better than EE. Lots of plain vanilla EE's around.
It depends on what you mean by a good career. Engineers have a very good salary, with chemical engineering being the highest paying career for students right out of college with a bachelors degree. If you enjoy a good salary, solving problems and an intellectual challenge then it is the right career for you. Jonathon M · 7 years ago. Thumbs up.