Throughout Canada's history, its culture has been influenced by European culture and traditions, especially British and French, and by its own indigenous cultures. Over time, elements of the cultures of Canada's immigrant populations have become incorporated into mainstream Canadian culture. Canada's culture draws from its broad range of constituent nationalities, and policies that promote a just society are constitutionally protected.
Confidence votes 24. Canada has what is called a cultural mosaic meaning they have every type of culture living in hopeful harmony. The most common cultures are however, British and French. Canada is much more than that though. They have Dutch, German, Italian, Ukrainian, Chinese, Japanese, Vietnamese, Russian, African, Persian, Egyptian, Irish, Scottish, Polish, Norwegian, Swedish, Korean, Australian, and many many more.
Our culture -- our ideas, songs and stories -- gives meaning to who we are as Canadians. Through cultural products, such as sound recordings, books and films, we express ideas and perspectives, and we share stories and images that are uniquely Canadian -- among ourselves and with the rest of the world. 
Canadian Culture. Canadians come from many different racial and religious backgrounds. Consequently, it is not easy to define a typical Canadian family. Although the majority of Canadians are Catholic or Protestant, many belong to other religions. Some cultural characteristics, however, are shared by most Canadians
Canadian culture is a term that embodies the artistic, culinary, literary, humour, musical, political and social elements that are representative of Canada and Canadians. Canada's culture draws from its broad range of constituent nationalities, and policies that promote a just society are constitutionally protected.
In the first sense multiculturalism is a description of the many different religious traditions and cultural influences that in their unity and coexistence in Canada make up Canadian culture. The nation consists of people from a multitude of racial, religious and cultural backgrounds and is open to cultural pluralism. 
Culture and Religion in Canada. Canada is similar to the United States in that it is a melting pot of different cultures and religions. Canada is a country without an official religion. Although about seventy-five percent of Canadian citizens claim to be practitioners of Christianity, religious pluralism is a valued part of Canada's culture. Unfortunately, many believe Canada has entered a depressing post-religiousperiod. However, other religions still seem to be en vogue. The stark increase in immigration from areas such as Asia, Africa, and the Middle East has contributed to the expansive growth of Muslim, Buddhist, Sikh, and Hindu communities within the country of Canada. More exclusive religious cultures also call Canada home.
Because no one culture dominates. Even most Canadian cultures do not dominate though the French-Canadian culture does dominate in Quebec. French-Canadian cultures ability to … assert it's dominance outside of Quebec is limited to language laws and areas of federal ownership.