Stress, alcohol intake, spicy cuisine and a host of illnesses can all wreak havoc upon your gastrointestinal tract. If you're dealing with diarrhea, irregularity or otherwise just need to harden your stool, stay away from fats, spices and high-fiber foods for a while and add these foods to your diet. Red meats, pork, poultry and fish all will slow down the digestive system and harden your stool. Because fat and oils loosen your bowels, leaner proteins can be best for slowing your digestive system, but in general any meat will slow things down more than its oils will speed things up.
Not medical advice: Bananas, rice, toast and crackers all cause stool to harden. Just be careful not to over do it. 
A diet that is low in fiber is more likely to cause hard stools, according to Emedtv.com. Fiber is the indigestible part of plant foods and is important for softening stools because it absorbs large quantities of fluids. Limit consumption of low-fiber foods such as white bread, white rice, pasta, meat, fruits without skins, eggs, canned fruits and canned vegetables and fruit juice without pulp.
Beans. Foods that soften stool include beans. Legumes, like adzuki beans and soybeans, are rich in calcium, zinc, iron, protein and fiber, nutrients that soften stool, regulate normal bowel movements, aid in digestion, repair injuries and strengthen your immune system. Bran Cereals. Other foods that soften stool include bran cereals (Shredded Wheat, Raisin Bran and Oat Bran warm cereal). Bran cereals are rich in fiber, which aid in digestion and support regular bowel movements. Bran cereals can also ease stomach cramps often associated with constipation.
Also if you are having a severe diarrhea episode i would recommend immodium, its just a medication that hardens the stool and stops the diarrhea, with having this much diarrhea you have to make sure to get rehydrated, drink a lot of water and gatorade. Also you can buy this at your local pharmacy. Source(s): Best Answer: You are doing the right thing, all of those things harden the stool.
Dairy Products. Assuming lactose ingredients are not the root cause of any digestive issues, dairy products like milk, cheese, yogurt and ice cream are all stool-hardening foods. Red meats, pork, poultry and fish all will slow down the digestive system and harden your stool. Because fat and oils loosen your bowels, leaner proteins can be best for slowing your digestive system, but in general any meat will slow things down more than its oils will speed things up.
Stools made from fatty food wastes are more likely to harden. Fatty foods move slowly in the bowel, which leads to the reabsorption of the water content of the stools. The more water is reabsorbed from the stools, the harder they become. Fiber is the indigestible part of plant foods and is important for softening stools because it absorbs large quantities of fluids. Limit consumption of low-fiber foods such as white bread, white rice, pasta, meat, fruits without skins, eggs, canned fruits and canned vegetables and fruit juice without pulp.
Increase intake of foods rich in fiber such as bran, whole grain breads, whole grain cereals, brown rice, raw fruits and vegetables. Your doctor may also recommend you take an over-the-counter fiber supplement to increase regularity. Fiber is the indigestible part of plant foods and is important for softening stools because it absorbs large quantities of fluids. Limit consumption of low-fiber foods such as white bread, white rice, pasta, meat, fruits without skins, eggs, canned fruits and canned vegetables and fruit juice without pulp.
Report Abuse. You might want to try increasing the protein and fiber in your diet. Eat healthy meats like chicken, turkey, or lean beef. Also eat lots of fruits an vegetables and whole grain breads. Increasing the protein and fiber in your diet will help to add bulk to your stools. If this doesn't work you might want to consult your physician. Best Answer: You are doing the right thing, all of those things harden the stool.
Flaxseeds. Another food to help relieve constipation is flaxseeds. Flaxseeds are rich in fiber and essential fatty acids, healthy fats that soften stool and ease constipation. The best way to use flaxseeds as a stool softener is to add approximately 2 tablespoons of flaxseed to your cereal or meals. Bran Cereals. Other foods that soften stool include bran cereals (Shredded Wheat, Raisin Bran and Oat Bran warm cereal). Bran cereals are rich in fiber, which aid in digestion and support regular bowel movements. Bran cereals can also ease stomach cramps often associated with