There are several organs that are located in within the abdomen area that is right underneath the rib cage. For instance, on the right side of the body, intestines, kidneys, pancreas, gallbladder, liver, spleen and in the case of women, uterus and ovaries are located. Pain Under Right Rib Cage. The rib cage surrounds the chest cavity which is scientifically known as the thoracic cavity and also supports the pectoral girdle or the shoulder girdle which consists of the upper trunk area that connect the hands to the body.
There are 12 ribs on each side (left and right) and 2 clavicles (collarbones) on the left and right as well. Various organs are located behind the rib cage which are either located in the thoracic cavity or abdominal cavity. Right Rib Cage Organs. The rib cage is the part of the axial skeleton that protects the vital organs within the thoracic (chest) cavity and the upper part of the abdominal cavity. It is made up of the ribs that articulate at the back with the vertebral column (vertebrae) and at the front with the breastbone (sternum)
Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. your lungs. on the right side your liver. on the left, your kidney and stomach. and sorta in the middle at the end of the rib cage is Duodenum (beginning) : beginning of the small intestine. 
Gallbladder Problems: Gallbladder is a small pear-shaped sac that is located just below the liver, in the upper-right quadrant of the abdomen. One may experience pain under the right rib cage due to cholecystitis. Liver Disease: The liver is a large glandular organ that is located just under the ribs on the upper right quadrant of the abdomen. The liver performs various important functions such as production of certain proteins, immune factors and a digestive juice called bile.
The only organ behind your ribcage on the right side, is your liver. If it is lung related you will also experience some shortness of breath with associated cough & inability to stretch your chest. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The whole point of the rib cage is to protect the heart and lungs. The spleen and stomach are located under the rib cage on the left and the liver is located under the ribs on the right. Pain can be from these organs or from the muscles and bones that make up the rib cage. Source(s): PA. N · 6 years ago.
Gallbladder Problems: Gallbladder is a small pear-shaped sac that is located just below the liver, in the upper-right quadrant of the abdomen. One may experience pain below the rib cage due to cholecystitis. Cholecystitis refers to the inflammation of the gallbladder. 
Most often, pain under right rib cage may be a symptom of an injury or inflammation to any of the organs located in the abdomen cavity, under the right rib cage. Below are some of the possible illnesses and medical conditions that may cause pain under the rib cage. 1  Liver damage-Liver damage or infections and inflammation of the liver can cause pain under right rib cage. 2  Hepatitis is a resulting inflammation of the liver. 3  Hepatitis is caused by alcoholism and viral infections. Pain Under Right Rib Cage. The rib cage surrounds the chest cavity which is scientifically known as the thoracic cavity and also supports the pectoral girdle or the shoulder girdle which consists of the upper trunk area that connect the hands to the body.
There many organs that located on the right side under the lower  ribs. The main organs include kidneys, intestines, liver,  gallbladder, liver and spleen. Depends on your perspective. From the front, the first organ you get is you stomach, from the back, the left kidney. Both start above the rib cage and extend down below it. Th … e tail of the pancreas lies between the the two, and your intestines occupy any extra space round all that.