It is a lossy format, which means that when the image is compressed, some of the image data becomes lost. JPEG is ideal for displaying images on the web because it dramatically reduces the file size of the image without significantly reducing the quality. JPEG format is best for photographs or other images with a smooth, gradual shading. JPEG images not only help to save space on servers, they also reduce bandwidth and download times. The reduction in size of the compressed image is usually significant, even with minimal compression.
JPEG compression is used in a number of image file formats. JPEG/ Exif is the most common image format used by digital cameras and other photographic image capture devices; along with JPEG/ JFIF, it is the most common format for storing and transmitting photographic images on the World Wide Web. The MIME media type for JPEG is image/jpeg, except in older Internet Explorer versions, which provides a MIME type of image/pjpeg when uploading JPEG images. JPEG files usually have a filename extension of .jpg or .jpeg.
The term JPEG is an acronym for the Joint Photographic Experts Group, which created the standard. The MIME media type for JPEG is image/jpeg, except in older Internet Explorer versions, which provides a MIME type of image/pjpeg when uploading JPEG images. JPEG files usually have a filename extension of .jpg or .jpeg. JPEG/JFIF supports a maximum image size of 65535×65535 pixels, hence up to 4 gigapixels (for an aspect ratio of 1:1)
The file extension JPG stands as a Picture Extension that means: Both JPEG (Joint Photographic Experts Group) and JPG (Joint Photographic Group) are bitmap compression format … s for picture and image files with compression ratios ranging from 10:1 to 20:1. The JPEG file format is a compressed format, with some loss of quality during compression. It is a popular web format due to the generally smaller size of files compared to other formats. File extensions are .jpg, .jpeg, and .jpe.
It allows for lossy compression, i. e. the compression of data into a form which re-expands into an image close, but not identical to the original image. Files stored in this format usually carry the extension jpg or jpeg. Compare GIF. 
Report Abuse. JPG is same thing as JPEG which is a picture file format and is often used when saving picture files on computer because it is high compression with high quality meaning you get a really great looking picture that is not pixelated and you get a lower file size. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JPEG. Best Answer: jpg is the file extension for a JPEG image. The JPEG standard specifies both the codec, which defines how an image is compressed into a stream of bytes and decompressed back into an image, and the file format used to contain that stream.
The file extension JPG stands as a Picture Extension that means: Both JPEG (Joint Photographic Experts Group) and JPG (Joint Photographic Group) are bitmap compression format … s for picture and image files with compression ratios ranging from 10:1 to 20:1. In fact, JPG and JPEF file formats are identical. 
JPEG is joint photographs experts group. It is used to print stuff on the web.It is a far smaller file than the classic BITMAP image,and far greater quality.It cannot be edited,by itself,however. In computing, JPEG (pronounced JAY-peg) is a commonly used standard method of lossy compression for photographic images. JPEG/JFIF is the format most used for storing and transmitting photographs on the World Wide Web. For this application, it is preferred to formats such as GIF, which has a limit of 256 distinct colors that is insufficient for colour photographs, and PNG, which produces much larger image files for this type of image.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: JPEG stands for Joint Photographic Experts Group, the name of the committee that created the standard. JPEG is the most common format used by image capture devices (such as digital cameras) and is the most common format used for images on the web. JPEG images are compressed files, which are not equipped to undergo multiple edits without significant quality loss. Report Abuse. A Jpeg is a file type, similar to a GIF or BMP File, Jpeg files are typically of a decent quality, load fairly quickly and are usually a somewhat small file size. Alot of websites will only use Jpeg formats because of the balance of small file size, load times, and good quality images.