Also useful in stopping in a straight line if one side is on slippery stuff and the other on grippy stuff (non-ABS will tend to spin). EBD EBD: Electronic Brake Distribution (or Electronic Brake-force Distributor) - alters how much of the brake force goes to the front and how much to the rear. ESP As this was asked along with ABS and EBD, I think it might actually be ESP which is asked about. ESP: Electronic Stability Program-senses when the car is about to go out of control and can apply an individual brake to a wheel to help avoid the spin.
EBD (Electronic Brake Force Distributor) is separate from ABS (Anti-lock Brakeing System). ABS pulsates the application of the brake force to each wheel irrespective of individual wheel loading. But EBD takes into account individual wheel loading to decide how much pressure goes to each wheel. 
Anti-Lock braking System system or ABS is a safety system which prevents the wheels on a moving vehicle from locking up(or cease while rotating) while braking. For example if the wheels of a vehicle are on snow as well as asphalt then in case of emergency braking the ABS will monitor the speeds and eventually the EBD system will release less pressure for wheels on snow and more pressure for wheels on asphalt to prevent wheel lock-up.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Electronic brakeforce distribution (EBD or EBFD) or electronic brakeforce limitation (EBL) is an automobile brake technology that automatically varies the amount of force applied to each of a vehicle's brakes, based on road conditions, speed, loading, etc. As per the technical paper published by Buschmann et al. The job of the EBD as a subsystem of the ABS system is to control the effective adhesion utilization by the rear wheels. The pressure of the rear wheels are approximated to the ideal brake force distribution in a partial braking operation.
Anti-lock braking system (ABS) is an automobile safety system that allows the wheels on a motor vehicle to maintain tractive contact with the road surface according to driver inputs while braking, preventing the wheels from locking up (ceasing rotation) and avoiding uncontrolled skidding. 
Electronic brake-force distribution system also called as Electronic brake-force limitation is an automobile brake technology that automatically varies the amount of force applied to each of a vehicle’s brakes, based on road conditions, speed, loading, etc. EBD system is always coupled with anti-lock brake-force system. For example if the wheels of a vehicle are on snow as well as asphalt then in case of emergency braking the ABS will monitor the speeds and eventually the EBD system will release less pressure for wheels on snow and more pressure for wheels on asphalt to prevent wheel lock-up.
ABS with EBD and Brake Assist. The standard advanced ABS system gives confident, secure braking when you need it most. Electronic Brake force Distribution adjusts brake proportioning to compensate for added weight from passengers or cargo.
However, you’ll need to take extra care when braking. Since EBD and ABS use many of the same components, your anti-lock brakes will often fail at the same time as your electronic brake force distribution system, which means you may need to pump your brakes instead of applying steady pressure. Electronic brake force distribution systems look at data from speed sensors to determine if any of the wheels aren't rotating at the same speed as the others. These systems can also compare the data from a yaw sensor to the data from a steering wheel angle sensor to see if the vehicle is over-or understeering.
EBD is the most important part of the braking system. You can have ABS or not (older cars did't have it) but you can't drive without EBD. Older cars were equipped with the mechanical brake force regulator that has similar functionality as the EBD nowadays. 