Your interview ensemble could be on-point -- a navy blue, professionally tailored skirt suit, with the perfect hose and pumps -- but if your accessories, including makeup, hair and fingernails detract from your appearance, they might affect your chances of being selected for the job. 
Blue is one of the best colors to wear on a job interview because is exudes trust and confidence. Lisa Johnson Mandell at AOL Jobs writes: Studies show that navy blue is the best color for a suit to wear to a job interview, because it inspires confidence. You are more likely to get the job when you wear navy blue to an interview than any other color.. AP. Conservative colors, such as black, blue, gray, and brown, seem to be the the safest bet when meeting someone for the first time in a professional setting, whereas colors that signal more creativity, like orange, may be too loud for an interview.
When asked to advise job seekers on the best color to wear to a job interview, employers most often recommended blue (23 percent) and black (15 percent). Orange topped the list for the worst color (25 percent of employers) and was the color most likely to be associated with someone who is unprofessional. 
Neckties worn for interviews should not be loud or too colorful-stick with a conservative look. Some of the more popular necktie colors for interview clothing are blue ties and burgundy ties. Once you know what color suit you'll be wearing, pick a tie and ask us if it goes-drop us a quick note. We would be more than happy to give you our opinion prior to your purchase
What to Wear to an Interview. Deciding what to wear is a big decision – a decision that can impact if you get the job or not. Typically, my advice is to always dress up for the interview, whether that be a shirt and tie or a suit. My reasoning for this is twofold. For the interview, special attention should be taken to match the color of your shirt to the suit you plan on wearing. Solid white or blue will work with almost any suit, but you can also pull of a light green shirt if you want to have a little spunk.
1 Wear a conservative tie, at least for the first interview, in a plain color that works with your suit. 2  Wear dark colored shoes and dark socks that match either your shoes or your trousers. 3  Make sure your shoes are clean and polished, and not worn. 4  Don’t wear jumpers or cardigans. For men: 1 
You are more likely to get the job when you wear navy blue to an interview than any other color.” Be wary, though, of choosing navy for more creative job interviews, where you could come off looking too conservative. For the most part, experts suggest playing it safe with neutrals for job interviews in most fields, but if you’re interviewing for a job in a creative field, don’t be afraid to wear certain colors. Purple sends the message of being artistic and unique, while yellow projects optimism and creativity.
Navy blue is probably the best option for first job interviews as it elicits a positive response from most interviewers. It is a professional color which adds an impression of authority, confidence, trust, honesty, loyalty, stability, reliability and credibility. Many bosses see it as the color of the team player. For men: 1  Wear a conservative tie, at least for the first interview, in a plain color that works with your suit. 2  Wear dark colored shoes and dark socks that match either your shoes or your trousers. 3  Make sure your shoes are clean and polished, and not worn.
According to 2,099 hiring managers and human resource professionals who participated in CareerBuilder's recently published survey, blue and black are the best colors to wear to a job interview, and orange is the worst. Conservative colors, such as black, blue, gray, and brown, seem to be the the safest bet when meeting someone for the first time in a professional setting, whereas colors that signal more creativity, like orange, may be too loud for an interview.
Why you need to throw away your brown suit and orange blouse now. http://www.fastcompany.com/3036012/what-the-color-you-wear-on-an-interview-says-about-you by @StephanieVozza via @FastCompany. How The Color You Wear To An Interview Effects Your Chances. 