Commonly, a map projection is a systematic transformation of the latitudes and longitudes of locations on the surface of a sphere or an ellipsoid into locations on a plane. Map projections are necessary for creating maps. All map projections distort the surface in some fashion. 
Conservation of Angle: A conformal mapping of two continuous arcs that locally form an angle in the z-plane will generate two continuous arcs seperated by the same local angle in the w-plane. Conformal Mapping. map1 Figure 1 An example of a conformal mapping between the z-plane, z=x+iy, and the w-plane, w(z)=u(x,y)+iv(x,y), according to mapping function w=z2. In this example, the shaded region in the z-plane maps to the shaded region in the w-plane. Coordinates (u,v) are given by (x2-y2,2xy)
Conformal Mapping. A conformal mapping, also called a conformal map, conformal transformation, angle-preserving transformation, or biholomorphic map, is a transformation that preserves local angles. An analytic function is conformal at any point where it has a nonzero derivative. 
Figure 10.1 The tangents at the points, where f(z) is an analytic function and. A mapping is said to be angle preserving, or conformal at, if it preserves angles between oriented curves in magnitude as well as in orientation. Theorem 10.1 shows where a mapping by an analytic function is conformal. 
Common Mappings. Example 1. The conformal mapping in polar coordinates. Details 1. Example 2. The conformal mapping in rectangular coordinates. Details 2. Example 3. The conformal mapping in polar coordinates. Details 3. Example 4. The conformal mapping in rectangular coordinates. Details 4. 
con·for·mal. adj. 1. Mathematics Designating or specifying a mapping of a surface or region upon another surface so that all angles between intersecting curves remain unchanged. 2. Of or relating to a map projection in which small areas are rendered with true shape. conformal. adj. 1. (Mathematics) maths. a. (of a transformation) preserving the angles of the depicted surface.
Conformal Mapping. or conformal transformation (in mathematics), a mapping of one figure (region) to another in which any two curves intersecting at a certain angle at an interior point of the first figure are transformed into curves that intersect at the same angle in the second figure. that this conformal mapping is realized with the aid of the function of the complex variable z’ = z 2. It is not difficult to ascertain that in this case the half-lines parallel to the sides of the angle are transformed into half-parabolas with a common focus at O’ (Figure 3).