The day of ovulation differs from woman to woman and can even be different from month to month for an individual woman. For a woman with a 28 day cycle, the window of ovulation is day 11 through day 21 of your cycle. Ovulation could occur on any one day during this window. The number of days in your cycle is calculated by counting the number of days from the beginning of one period to the beginning of the next period. If you have a short cycle, for example 21 days, and you bleed for 7 days, then you could ovulate right after your period.
During my ovulation time, how many days am I really fertile? During your window of ovulation, an egg is only available to be fertilized for about 12-24 hours. But since sperm can live in the body for 3-5 days after sex, and the egg is available for one day, your most fertile time is considered to be about 5-7 days. The number of days in your cycle is calculated by counting the number of days from the beginning of one period to the beginning of the next period. If you have a short cycle, for example 21 days, and you bleed for 7 days, then you could ovulate right after your period.
An oocyte/egg has at least a 48 hour lifespan after ovulation. As you may know the most likely time to conceive is about 14 days before the start of your next period. So if one had a regular 28 day cycle, ovulation is around day 14; a regular 34 day cycle will have an ovulation around day 20. If one has a regular 24 day cycle, ovulation can be as early as cycle day 10.
The time of ovulation within the menstrual cycle is determined by the luteal phase, which is usually 12 to 16 days long in most women. You can calculate the time of ovulation within your cycle by subtracting the length of your luteal phase from the length of your cycle. If you ovulated on the 26th and had unprotected sex on the 22nd, there is a chance you could be pregnant from the encounter. You will wait to wait about 11 or 12 days after you ovulated to use a pregnancy test to get the most accurate results.
Know Your Days. There are only six days during any cycle when a woman can get pregnant-the five days leading up to ovulation and the 24 hours after ovulation. This is because sperm can live for up to 5 days in a woman's body, and the ovum lives for only 12-24 hours. 
Yes | No Thank you! You can get pregnant if you have sex up to 5 days before you ovulate or up to 24 hours after you ovulate. However, not everyone ovulates on day 14, so it's tough to tell when you ovulate unless you use ovulation predictors and chart your temperature to confirm that you did ovulate. 
The Association estimates that ovulation occurs anywhere between 11-21 days after the first day of your last menstrual period (LMP), or 12-16 days from when you expect the next menstrual period to start. Order a Fertility Kit or Monitor. The number of days in your cycle is calculated by counting the number of days from the beginning of one period to the beginning of the next period. If you have a short cycle, for example 21 days, and you bleed for 7 days, then you could ovulate right after your period.
Tracking Your Most Fertile Days. Generally, the highest chance of pregnancy is when sex happens1-2 days before ovulation. If you have a regular 28-day cycle, count back 14 days from when you expect your next period to start. Plan on having sex every other day around that time -- say, days 12 and 14. Keep in mind that having sex every day may lower a man's sperm count