A pars defect of the lumbar spine involves a part of a vertebra called the pars interarticularis. Roughly translated, that means the part between two joints.. A defect in the pars is a break in this portion of bone. This break leads to a separation of the upper, front portion of the vertebra from its lower, back portion. This condition is a precursor to another condition called spondylolisthesis, a word that refers to the slipping of a vertebra. For many years, it was assumed that pars defects were congenital anomalies, or birth defects. Today, we understand that most pars defects are really stress fractures that usually occur in the spines of young people. The presumed cause is repeated hyperextension, or backward bending, of the lumbar spine.
Importantly, spondylolysis only refers to the separation of the pars interarticularis (a small bony arch in the back of the spine between the facet joints), whereas spondylolisthesis refers to anterior slippage of one vertebra over another (in the front of the spine). 1 If there are no indications of activity with the pars defect, then the spondylolysis is considered inactive and any low back pain the patient is experiencing is probably incidental (meaning that there is probably another cause of the patient's lower back pain, such as a muscle strain).
Pars Interarticularis Definition. Pars interarticularis refers to a small segment of bone that joins the facet joints in the back of the spine. A defect in this portion of the spine leads to a condition called spondylolysis. 
Overview. Spondylolysis is the medical term for a spine fracture or defect that occurs at the region of the pars interarticularis. The pars interarticularis is region between the facet joints of the spine, and more specifically the junction of the superior facet and the lamina. Spondylolisthesis is the medical term used to describe the forward slippage (anterior translation or displacement) of one spine bone (vertebrae) on another
Spondylolysis: Spondylosysis, or pars interarticularis defect, is essentially a stress fracture of the narrow bridge of bone between vertebral body and the spinous process of the vertebrae. This is not an uncommon condition following repetitive trauma (seen also in gymnasts and football players). 
What is Pars Defect. Pars defect is a painful condition that affects the lower spine. It is actually a stress fracture that occurs in the region of the vertebrae called pars interarticularis (or just pars). The pars interarticularis acts as a bony bridge between joints, and helps to keep the vertebra in place. Pars defect is believed to be caused by repetitive strain to the lower back or lumbar section of the spine, and typically affects the fifth and fourth lumbar vertebrae.
Spondylolysis is a defect of a vertebra. More specifically it is defined as a defect in the pars interarticularis of the vertebral arch. The great majority of cases occur in the lowest of the lumbar vertebrae (L5), but spondylolysis may also occur in the other lumbar vertebrae, as well as in the thoracic vertebrae. Spondylolysis is a defect of the lumbar vertebra in the spinal column. The lumbar vertebra consist of a body, pedicle, lamina, pars interarticularis, transverse process, spinous process and superior articular facets, which form joints that link the vertebrae together.
The pars interarticularis, or pars for short, is the part of vertebra located between the inferior and superior articular processes of the facet joint. In the transverse plane, it lies between the lamina and pedicle. 