The Maldives (Dhivehi: ދިވެހިރާއްޖެ Dhivehi Raajje) are an archipelago of 1,192 coral islands grouped into 26 coral atolls (200 inhabited islands, plus 80 islands with tourist resorts) in the Indian Ocean. They lie south-southwest of India and are considered part of Southern Asia. The Maldives have a remarkably easy visa policy -- Everybody gets a free 30-day visa on arrival, provided that they have a valid travel document, a ticket out and proof of sufficient funds, defined as either a confirmed reservation in any resort or USD100 + USD50/day [1] in cash.
Sunny maldives limited was incorporated in the year 2000 with the intention of developing tourism related business in Maldives. 
The more expensive the resort, the more expensive the activities. If you want to do more than just relax on the beach, the cost of activities do add up ($80 per person for a 3 hour snorkeling trip, $110 per person for a sunset cruise, $160 for a 3 hour trip to a local island etc.). The Maldives have a remarkably easy visa policy -- Everybody gets a free 30-day visa on arrival, provided that they have a valid travel document, a ticket out and proof of sufficient funds, defined as either a confirmed reservation in any resort or USD100 + USD50/day [1] in cash.
Tourism, Maldives largest industry, accounts for 20% of GDP and more than 60% of the Maldives' foreign exchange receipts. Over 90% of government tax revenue comes from import duties and tourism-related taxes. Over 600,000 tourists visited the islands in 2006. Fishing is a second leading sector. The Maldives have a remarkably easy visa policy -- Everybody gets a free 30-day visa on arrival, provided that they have a valid travel document, a ticket out and proof of sufficient funds, defined as either a confirmed reservation in any resort or USD100 + USD50/day [1] in cash.
These flights provide a range for service flights such as airport-to-resort shuttles, island-hopping and short sight-seeing trips which provide breathtaking views of the coral reefs, islands and the crystalline lagoons. The flight companies also offer their seaplanes for aerial photography that allows one the chance to capture the natural beauty of the Maldives as seen from above; the view of the small islands dotting the vast ocean at regular intervals like gems on a necklace – the perfect souvenir.
Maldives Excursions. One of the most interesting things to do in Maldives is to indulge in the many excursions of Maldives. There are a lot of places to see around Maldives. It will be an ultimate experience to visit the fishing village and see the Maldivians way of life. And it can be said that if you do not explore Male, the capital city of Maldives, your trip is incomplete. You don't need to ponder as to how to enjoy in Maldives, because there are a number of fun options available to suit the needs of every person's enthusiasm level and his budget.
Electricity, Telephone and Internet Access. Electricity in Maldives is 230 Volts, alternating at 50 cycles per second. If you travel to Maldives with a device that does not accept 230 Volts at 50 Hertz, you will need a voltage converter. The international access code for the Maldives is +960. The Maldives are home to some of the most diverse marine fauna and flora in the world. Thousands of reefs, a thousand recorded species of fish, over two hundred species of coral and hundreds more species of other marine life-no wonder many see this as one of the greatest dive destinations on Earth.
Maldives Tour Operator. We have delighted thousands of satisfied guests looking to travel to the Maldives and other countries since our establishment in 1990. If you are looking for a tour to the Maldives, allow Capital Travel to delight you today! 1  Read more about
Maldives Seaplane Tours. The sea plane companies operating in the Maldives offers spectacular flights over the atolls – perfect for photo trips, sight seeing or just plain enjoyment. The flight companies also offer their seaplanes for aerial photography that allows one the chance to capture the natural beauty of the Maldives as seen from above; the view of the small islands dotting the vast ocean at regular intervals like gems on a necklace – the perfect souvenir.
Discover Maldives. Welcome to the Maldives, where sands are white as the smiles of the locals, where fish swim happily in the warm waters of the Indian Ocean, where the weather is a dream, and the deep rays of the sun waits to engulf you in their arms. 