The gain from your ESPP purchase is totaled on the W-2 with other income in the following boxes... If you sell ESPP shares in a qualifying disposition, you still... If the company has not issued a W-2 by the middle of February, the IRS suggests... You will need to gather certain information to complete your tax return.
Qualifying Disposition: You sold the stock at least two years after the offering (grant date) and at least one year after the exercise (purchase date). If so, a portion of the profit (the “bargain element”) is considered compensation income (taxed at regular rates) on your Form 1040.
Your compensation income from ESPP shares in a disqualifying disposition is the value of those shares on the date of purchase minus the amount paid for them.
Income from a qualifying disposition of ESPP stock may or may not appear on Form W-2, so that is one item you need. If you sold the shares (instead of making a different kind of disposition, such as a gift), you should also have Form 1099-B, which reports your proceeds from the sale.
Report the sale of the shares on Schedule D, using the sales proceeds reported on Form 1099-B and the basis calculated in Step 4. If you held the shares more than a year, your gain or loss is long-term.
Disqualifying Disposition: You sold the stock within two years after the offering date or one year or less from the exercise (purchase date). In this case, your employer will report the bargain element as compensation on your Form W-2, so you will have to pay taxes on that amount as ordinary income.
Your compensation income from ESPP shares in a qualifying disposition is the lesser of two amounts. The first is the discount allowed on your purchase, determined as of the grant date, which is normally the first day of the offering period.
Income from a disqualifying disposition of ESPP stock should appear on Form W-2, so that is one item you need. Beginning with the 2010 tax year, companies are also required to provide Form 3922, giving other numbers you may need.