Juggs is a softcore pornography adult magazine published in the United States which specializes in photographs of women with extremely large breasts. It has been called the magazine of choice for breast men.. It is published by Mavety Media Group, originally known for publishing gay pornography magazines in the United States, and distributed by Larry Flynt Publications. The magazine readership is mostly blue-collar men in the American South and Midwest. After Juggs published a review of artist John Currin's exhibition in 1998, the magazine's approval was still being used to define the artist's work 11 years later. From 1986 to 2001, Juggs was helmed by Dian Hanson who had edited multiple pornographic magazines since 1977.
Full Definition of JUG. 1. a chiefly British: a small pitcher b (1) : a large deep usually earthenware or glass container with a narrow mouth and a handle (2) : the contents of such a container: jugful. 2. : jail, prison. See jug defined for English-language learners. 
1 You can only upload files of type 3GP, 3GPP, MP4, MOV, AVI, MPG, MPEG, or RM. 2  You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB. 3  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB. 4  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm). 5  You can only upload a photo or a video. 1 We are experiencing some problems, please try again. 2  You can only upload files of type PNG, JPG, or JPEG. 3  You can only upload files of type 3GP, 3GPP, MP4, MOV, AVI, MPG, MPEG, or RM. 4  You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB. 5  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB.
1 You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB. 2  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB. 3  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm). 4  You can only upload a photo or a video. 1 We are experiencing some problems, please try again. 2  You can only upload files of type PNG, JPG, or JPEG. 3  You can only upload files of type 3GP, 3GPP, MP4, MOV, AVI, MPG, MPEG, or RM. 4  You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB. 5  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB.
Hypernyms (jug is a kind of...): bottle (a glass or plastic vessel used for storing drinks or other liquids; typically cylindrical without handles and with a narrow neck that can be plugged or capped). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of jug): bellarmine; greybeard; long-beard; longbeard (a stoneware drinking jug with a long neck; decorated with a caricature of Cardinal Bellarmine (17th century)). water jug (a jug that holds water).
Link to this slang definition. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation.
BUSSIN JUGGS or JUGGIN selling drugs, trappin, making plays, making money ECT.... nigka! I was juggin lastnite. Man my phone stay juggin all da time. 
1. a large bottle with a narrow mouth. 2. the quantity contained in a jug. Familiarity information: JUG used as a noun is rare. • JUG (verb). The verb JUG has 2 senses: 1. lock up or confine, in or as in a jail. 2. stew in an earthenware jug. Familiarity information: JUG used as a verb is rare. Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of jug): bellarmine; greybeard; long-beard; longbeard (a stoneware drinking jug with a long neck; decorated with a caricature of Cardinal Bellarmine (17th century)). water jug (a jug that holds water).
Dian Hanson, the magazine's editor for 15 years, described it as the epitome of bad taste... a humorous magazine, a sexual sideshow.. The magazine title, a slang term for breasts, has become the perennial punch line of any joke that requires a pornographic magazine. After Juggs published a review of artist John Currin's exhibition in 1998, the magazine's approval was still being used to define the artist's work 11 years later. From 1986 to 2001, Juggs was helmed by Dian Hanson who had edited multiple pornographic magazines since 1977.