Scorpio is the darkest sign in the zodiac, and it is no wonder Scorpios have a reputation for being mysterious, complex and intense. They are ruled by two planets, Mars the God of war, and the planet Pluto, which governs sex, death, transformation, and atomic power.
Scorpio! Scorpios are the most intense, profound, powerful characters in the zodiac. Even when they appear self-controlled and calm there is a seething intensity of emotional energy under the placid exterior.
Scorpio's are very weary of the games that other people try to play and they are very aware of it. Scorpios tend to dominate and control anyone that lets them, or anyone that they find weak. The person that a Scorpio respects and holds close to them is treated with amazing kindness, loyalty and generosity.
Scorpio is the eighth sign of the astrological year and is known by its astrological symbol, the Scorpion. Scorpio individuals are enigmatic, strong-willed, and passionate. With Pluto as the ruling planet, people born under this sign are considered to be dynamic and extreme in their opinions.
Scorpio is the symbol of sex and Scorpios are passionate lovers, the most sensually energetic of all the signs. For them, union with the beloved is a sacrament, an outward and visible sign of an inward and spiritual grace..
Scorpio is the symbol of sex and Scorpios are passionate lovers, the most sensually energetic of all the signs. For them, union with the beloved is a sacrament, an outward and visible sign of an inward and spiritual grace.&quot.
The Scorpio male is unlike any other man of any other astrology sign. He is so unique that a seperate section is needed to explain about dating the Scorpio man. Unlike most other zodiac signs, what it's like to date a Scorpio woman is very similar to dating a
Home → Scorpio Compatibility. S corpio is probably the sign of the zodiac that is at once the most celebrated and the most feared. Scorpio natives are beings who possess a tremendous degree of innate power. This power can be, and usually is, transformational or psychological in nature.