Definition of Upstream. The upstream stage of the production process involves searching for and extracting raw materials. The upstream part of the production process does not do anything with the material itself, such as processing the material. This part of the process simply finds and extracts the raw material. The downstream stage in the production process involves processing the materials collected during the upstream stage into a finished product. The downstream stage further includes the actual sale of that product to other businesses, governments or private individuals.
Definition of Downstream. The downstream stage in the production process involves processing the materials collected during the upstream stage into a finished product. The downstream stage further includes the actual sale of that product to other businesses, governments or private individuals.
Upstream Marketing Definition. The idea of going upstream to uncover marketing opportunities is a proven approach though lacks definition, structure and practical instruction. The term itself was coined when Dr. Ram Charan, a top management consultant, published his book, “Profitable Growth Is Everyone’s Business” . This occurs for several reasons: 1  Upstream marketing lacks definition and can be difficult to do. 2  Upstream marketing success can be difficult to measure, especially compared with downstream marketing. 3  Upstream Marketing lacks tangibility and not particularly exciting.
Upstream marketing refers to the strategic process of identifying and fulfilling customer needs. Upstream marketing takes place at a much earlier stage by developing a clear market segmentation map and then identifying and precisely defining which customer segments to focus on. This occurs for several reasons: 1  Upstream marketing lacks definition and can be difficult to do. 2  Upstream marketing success can be difficult to measure, especially compared with downstream marketing. 3  Upstream Marketing lacks tangibility and not particularly exciting.
The downstream sector commonly refers to the refining of petroleum crude oil and the processing and purifying of raw natural gas, as well as the marketing and distribution of products derived from crude oil and natural gas. 
Upstream Marketing Definition. The idea of going upstream to uncover marketing opportunities is a proven approach though lacks definition, structure and practical instruction. The term itself was coined when Dr. Ram Charan, a top management consultant, published his book, “Profitable Growth Is Everyone’s Business” . Despite its importance to business success, most companies are unfamiliar with Upstream Marketing and how to apply it. Instead, they tend to emphasize Downstream Marketing activities, including advertising campaigns, brand building and promotion.
1 Upstream marketing lacks definition and can be difficult to do. 2  Upstream Marketing is neither a strategy nor process, but rather a set of principles and underlying concepts that need to be consistently applied to obtain maximum effectiveness. This occurs for several reasons: 1  Upstream marketing lacks definition and can be difficult to do. 2  Upstream marketing success can be difficult to measure, especially compared with downstream marketing. 3  Upstream Marketing lacks tangibility and not particularly exciting.
The terms upstream and downstream refer to two different, but equally important, aspects of marketing. Upstream marketing is focused on strategy and the long-term market situation, while downstream marketing looks at tactics and supporting the company sales team. Distinguishing these types of activity can help build a bridge between marketing and sales, benefiting both. Downstream activities focus on short-term sales and directly support current sales efforts. Anything the marketing director does to help the sales team with its next campaign is a downstream activity.
Upstream marketing refers to the strategic process of identifying and fulfilling customer needs. Upstream marketing takes place at a much earlier stage by developing a clear market segmentation map and then identifying and precisely defining which customer segments to focus on. Despite its importance to business success, most companies are unfamiliar with Upstream Marketing and how to apply it. Instead, they tend to emphasize Downstream Marketing activities, including advertising campaigns, brand building and promotion.