Slate Macro (~ 6 cm long and ~ 4 cm high). Slate is a fine-grained, foliated, homogeneous metamorphic rock derived from an original shale-type sedimentary rock composed of clay or volcanic ash through low-grade regional metamorphism. It is the finest grained foliated metamorphic rock. Slate is mainly composed of the minerals quartz and muscovite or illite, often along with biotite, chlorite, hematite, and pyrite and, less frequently apatite, graphite, kaolinite, magnetite, tourmaline, or zircon as well as feldspar.
2. thin layers of rock used for roofing. 3. a fine-grained metamorphic rock that can be split into thin layers. 4. a list of candidates nominated by a political party to run for election to public offices. Familiarity information: SLATE used as a noun is uncommon. • SLATE (verb). The verb SLATE has 3 senses: 1. designate or schedule. 2. enter on a list or slate for an election. 3. cover with slate. Familiarity information: SLATE used as a verb is uncommon.
slate. 1. a fine-grained rock formed by the metamorphosis of clay, shale, etc., that tends to split along parallel cleavage planes, usu. at an angle to the planes of stratification. 2. a thin piece or plate of this rock or a similar material, used esp. for roofing or as a writing surface. 3. a dull, dark bluish gray. 1. (Geological Science). a. a compact fine-grained metamorphic rock formed by the effects of heat and pressure on shale. It can be split into thin layers along natural cleavage planes and is used as a roofing and paving material. b. (as modifier): a slate tile.
— n. 1. a fine-grained rock formed by the metamorphosis of clay, shale, etc., that tends to split along parallel cleavage planes, usually at an angle to the planes of stratification. 2. a thin piece or plate of this rock or a similar material, used esp. for roofing or as a writing surface. 3. a dull, dark bluish gray. 
In the coal mining industry of the Appalachian Basin, the word slate is still used by many miners to in reference to the shale that forms the roof and floor of a mine and for fragments of shale that are separated from the coal in preparation plants. Slate can also contain abundant quartz and small amounts of feldspar, calcite, pyrite, hematite and other minerals. Most slates are gray in color and range in a continuum of shades from light to dark gray. Slate also occurs in shades of green, red, black, purple and brown. The color of slate is often determined by the amount and type of iron and organic material that are present in the rock
slate. 1. a fine-grained rock formed by the metamorphosis of clay, shale, etc., that tends to split along parallel cleavage planes, usu. at an angle to the planes of stratification. 2. a thin piece or plate of this rock or a similar material, used esp. for roofing or as a writing surface. 3. a dull, dark bluish gray
Slate is a fine-grained, foliated metamorphic rock that is created by the alteration of shale or mudstone by low-grade regional metamorphism. The specimen shown above is about two inches (five centimeters) across. Slate can also contain abundant quartz and small amounts of feldspar, calcite, pyrite, hematite and other minerals. Most slates are gray in color and range in a continuum of shades from light to dark gray. Slate also occurs in shades of green, red, black, purple and brown. The color of slate is often determined by the amount and type of iron and organic material that are present in the rock
Slate is a fine-grained, foliated metamorphic rock that is created by the alteration of shale or mudstone by low-grade regional metamorphism. It is popular for a wide variety of uses such as roofing, flooring and flagging because of its durability and attractive appearance. Slate can also contain abundant quartz and small amounts of feldspar, calcite, pyrite, hematite and other minerals. Most slates are gray in color and range in a continuum of shades from light to dark gray. Slate also occurs in shades of green, red, black, purple and brown. The color of slate is often determined by the amount and type of iron and organic material that are present in the rock