On April 26, 1996, in the name of Menotti Garibaldi, Aprilia, which houses the mortal remains of the hero had after some parts of the territory of the town of Velletri switched to Aprilia, it is twinned with Mostardas, town of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, where he was born. Although Aprilia it is effectively part of the province of Latina, because its strategic position based at the far north of the Pontinian province, Aprilia it is communally associated with as part of Rome. It will be probably included with the Rome metropolitan area in 2013-2014.
About Aprilia Motorcycles. Based in Italy, Aprilia manufactures sportbikes, dirt bikes and scooters. Aprilia’s first competitive motocross bike was produced in 1974 and Aprilia first entered MotoGP sportbike racing in 1985. Aprilia decided to take on the urban mobility market in the 1990’s and is a major player in the international scooter market today.
Also in the 1990s, Aprilia entered the scooter market starting in 1990 with Italy’s first all-plastic scooter, the Amico. In 1992, Aprilia introduced the Amico LK and the two stroke Pegaso 125, both with catalytic converters. In 1999 Aprilia entered World Superbike Championship racing with its RSV Mille, and during 2000, Aprilia acquired Moto-Guzzi and Laverda, both historic heritage Italian marques.
detailed map of Aprilia and near places. Welcome to the Aprilia google satellite map! This place is situated in Latina, Lazio, Italy, its geographical coordinates are 41° 36' 0 North, 12° 39' 0 East and its original name (with diacritics) is Aprilia. See Aprilia photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Aprilia in Italy. Maplandia.com in partnership with Booking.com offers highly competitive rates for all types of hotels in Aprilia, from affordable family hotels to the most luxurious ones. Booking.com, being established in 1996, is longtime Europe’s leader in online hotel reservations.
Aprilia [aˈpriːlja] is a town and comune (municipality) in the province of Latina, in the Lazio region of central Italy. It is the fifth town for population in the region and the tenth for its area. Although Aprilia it is effectively part of the province of Latina, because its strategic position based at the far north of the Pontinian province, Aprilia it is communally associated with as part of Rome. It will be probably included with the Rome metropolitan area in 2013-2014.
City of Aprilia (LT): Lazio Region-Italy. Population, official site, zip code and post office, town profile, useful link. Mayor: Antonio Terra. 
La camera rotonda e la vista. Patricia, Italy. Enea Hotel Aprilia is a modern building located in Aprilia on the SS148 Via Pontina which leads from Rome to Latina. Free Wi-Fi is offered. Enea Aprilia has a free internet point, a restaurant, a bar and lounge open 24 hours a day and a garden with terrace. Bikes are available too
Aprilia was founded after the Second World War by Cavaliere Alberto Beggio, as a bicycle production factory at Noale, Italy in the province of Venice. Alberto’s son, Ivano Beggio, took over the helm of the company in 1968 and constructed a 50 cc motorcycle with a dozen or so collaborators. In 1999 Aprilia entered World Superbike Championship racing with its RSV Mille, and during 2000, Aprilia acquired Moto-Guzzi and Laverda, both historic heritage Italian marques.
Aprilia is an Italian motorcycle company, one of the marques owned by Piaggio. Having started as a manufacturer of scooters and small-capacity motorcycles, in more recent times Aprilia has produced large sportbikes such as the 1,000 cc V-twin RSV Mille and the V4 RSV4. In 1999 Aprilia entered World Superbike Championship racing with its RSV Mille, and during 2000, Aprilia acquired Moto-Guzzi and Laverda, both historic heritage Italian marques.