Mr. Cole had cured his squamous cell neck cancer with carrot juice. Just 5 lbs of this drink a day saved him from cancer and he was ready to share his experience. He tried 3 lbs a day initially, but that didn’t give him any results.
(NaturalNews) Ann Cameron, an author of 15 children's books, cured her Stage 4 cancer with carrot juice only. She states, I believe from personal experience that carrots can cure cancer-and rapidly, without chemotherapy, radiation, or other dietary changes.. On June 6, 2012, Ann had surgery for Stage 3 colon cancer.
Ann Cameron, an author of 15 children’s books, ‘cured’ her Stage 4 cancer with carrot juice only. She states, “I believe from personal experience that carrots can cure cancer – and rapidly, without chemotherapy, radiation, or other dietary changes.” Stories of unusual natural cancer treatments are quite astounding.
Ann came across a man who had treated his cancer with nothing but carrots. His name was Ralph Cole, and he had treated his squamous cell neck cancer by drinking 5 pounds of carrot juice daily. Ralph shared his ‘carrot curing protocol’ freely with anyone who would listen. Here’s his blog.
In many nature cure centres spinach juice is added to carrot juice. Addition of 50 grams of spinach juice to 250 grams of carrot juice makes a tasty cocktail. A little lemon juice also can be added to it, but no salt should be put in the mixture.
The carrot cure also worked for Ralph Cole’s squamous cell cancers. I think they probably will work against a wide range of cancers. The effective ingredient in the carrots is falcarinol, which has been proved effective against cancer in lab experiments with rats and mice done in Denmark and the UK.
Thanks, Tami-Lynn. I’m very excited that others are trying the carrot cure. I hope those who try it will inform Chris, and also Ralph Cole at his website CancerIsOver.com In 2006, Ralph used carrot juice and cured squamous cell (skin cancer) tumors on his neck in eight weeks. He stopped juicing two months later.
Beta Carotene: Carrot juice can push away breast and cancer of the skin due to the quantity of beta carotene it’s. Primarily beta carotene is definitely an antioxidant also it eliminates toxins totally in the body. Additionally, it takes care of preventing the cell degeneration which occur in our body.