Overview. The Streaming APIs give developers low latency access to Twitter’s global stream of Tweet data. A proper implementation of a streaming client will be pushed messages indicating Tweets and other events have occurred, without any of the overhead associated with polling a REST endpoint. The streaming process gets the input Tweets and performs any parsing, filtering, and/or aggregation needed before storing the result to a data store. The HTTP handling process queries the data store for results in response to user requests.
Data Stream Mining is the process of extracting knowledge structures from continuous, rapid data records. A data stream is an ordered sequence of instances that in many applications of data stream mining can be read only once or a small number of times using limited computing and storage capabilities. Examples of data streams include computer network traffic, phone conversations, ATM transactions, web searches, and sensor data. Data stream mining can be considered a subfield of data mining, machine learning, and knowledge discovery.
Micro-blogs are a challenging new source of information fordata mining techniques. Twitter is a micro-blogging service built to dis-cover what is happening at any moment in time, anywhere in the world.Twitter messages are short, and generated constantly, and well suitedfor knowledge discovery using data stream mining. Interestingly, 37 percent of Twitter’sactive users used their phone to send messages.Twitter data follows the data stream model. In this model, data arrive athigh speed, and data mining algorithms must be able to predict in real timeand under strict constraints of space and time.
The most common data stream mining tasks are clustering, classication andfrequent pattern mining (Aggarwal2007;Gama2010). In this section we will give a briefintroduction to these data stream mining tasks. We will focus on clustering, since this is alsothe current focus of package stream. 2.1. 4 Introduction to stream 2. Data stream mining Due to advances in data gathering techniques, it is often the case that data is no longer viewedas a static collection, but rather as a potentially very large dynamic set, or stream, of incomingdata points.
Using this statistic we perform a study on Twitter data usinglearning algorithms for data streams. 1 Introduction Twitter is a \what’s-happening-right-now tool that enables interested partiesto follow individual users’ thoughts and commentary on events in their lives|in almost real-time [26]. Interestingly, 37 percent of Twitter’sactive users used their phone to send messages.Twitter data follows the data stream model. In this model, data arrive athigh speed, and data mining algorithms must be able to predict in real timeand under strict constraints of space and time.
Most of the social companies pull data from a range of sources, including Yahoo Inc. YHOO -0.77 % 's Tumblr, Facebook Inc. FB -0.05 % 's Instagram, and the review site Yelp Inc. YELP -2.27 % But Twitter, because of its public real-time data stream, is the industry giant. Even the Library of Congress is now cataloging tweets. Twitter's social network rival Facebook, on the other hand, has largely eschewed getting involved in the data business. That is a small amount compared with the revenue generated from advertising, but Twitter's data business has rippled across the economy.