Symptoms of Walking Pneumonia in Adults. The walking pneumonia symptoms in adults are subtle and mild on the first onset of infection as it is a mild form of pneumonia and doesn’t really need hospitalization. Walking pneumonia is a disease caused by the infectious microorganism, mycoplasma pnuemoniae. It is important to know the early signs of walking pneumonia to prevent the condition from getting worse. If this condition is left untreated, the symptoms would worsen in two to three weeks after the infection occurred. Different Walking Pneumonia Symptoms in Adults. The symptoms of walking pneumonia are difficult to recognize on the first onset of the infection because of their subtleness. The symptoms usually become evident 15 to 25 days after the infection of mycoplasma pneumonia.
1 Pneumonia. 2  Different types of pneumonia, an infection of your lungs, may temporarily cause atelectasis. 3  Pneumothorax. 4  Air leaks into the space between your lungs and chest wall, indirectly causing some or all of a lung to collapse. 5  Scarring of lung tissue. 6  Scarring could be caused by injury, lung disease or surgery. 1 Air leaks into the space between your lungs and chest wall, indirectly causing some or all of a lung to collapse. 2  Scarring of lung tissue. 3  Scarring could be caused by injury, lung disease or surgery. 4  In these rare cases, the atelectasis is minor compared with the damage to the lung tissue from the scarring.
When your head is pounding, your nose is stuffed, and you can't stop coughing and sneezing, you might not care what you have — you just want relief. But it's important to know that a cold, the flu, or pneumonia can all cause those symptoms. While the flu is also caused by a virus, it's a whole different kind of illness. Cold symptoms are relatively mild, whereas the flu causes much more severe symptoms. Influenza can really wipe out even a healthy person, says Milstone. There is a vaccine to prevent, and medication to treat, certain strains of the flu.
Definition. Pneumonitis (noo-moe-NIE-tis) is a general term that refers to inflammation of lung tissue. Although pneumonia is technically a type of pneumonitis because the infection causes inflammation, most doctors are referring to other causes of lung inflammation when they use the term pneumonitis.. Factors that can cause pneumonitis include exposure to airborne irritants at your job or from your hobbies. 
1 Influenza (Flu). 2  Pneumonia is a major complication of the flu (including H1N1, or swine flu) and can be very serious. 3  Influenza-associated pneumonia is particularly risky for the elderly and people with heart disease. 4  It can develop about 5 days after flu symptoms start. Chronic Bronchitis. Chronic bronchitis causes shortness of breath and is often accompanied by infection, mucus production, and coughing, but it is a long-term and irreversible condition. The same bacteria and viruses that cause pneumonia can cause an infection in patients with chronic bronchitis.
The walking pneumonia symptoms in adults are subtle and mild on the first onset of infection as it is a mild form of pneumonia and doesn’t really need hospitalization. Different Walking Pneumonia Symptoms in Adults. The symptoms of walking pneumonia are difficult to recognize on the first onset of the infection because of their subtleness. The symptoms usually become evident 15 to 25 days after the infection of mycoplasma pneumonia.
Pneumonia is an acute infection of the lungs. It's a more common problem than most people think. Usually pneumonia is a mild disease, but some forms are very dangerous and require a hospital stay. In all cases, you'll need to seek care from your health care provider.
A: Symptoms of serious disease in elders can be different from, and milder than, those in younger people. A serious disease like pneumonia, which in young people usually presents with fever and a cough, may cause only fatigue with no cough, perhaps not even a fever in an elder. 
1 Pneumonia is a major complication of the flu (including H1N1, or swine flu) and can be very serious. 2  Influenza-associated pneumonia is particularly risky for the elderly and people with heart disease. 3  It can develop about 5 days after flu symptoms start. Chronic Bronchitis. Chronic bronchitis causes shortness of breath and is often accompanied by infection, mucus production, and coughing, but it is a long-term and irreversible condition. The same bacteria and viruses that cause pneumonia can cause an infection in patients with chronic bronchitis.
But pneumonia can be a serious problem for people at high risk for the disease, including senior citizens, very young children, and those with a chronic lung condition. A pneumonia vaccine is available to protect against certain types of this potentially deadly illness. Pneumonia symptoms often include: 1  Coughing up mucous or even blood. 2  Extreme fatigue. 3  Trouble breathing. 4  Chest pain that gets worse when you breathe deeply or cough. 5  High fever with chills. 6  Headaches. While the flu is also caused by a virus, it's a whole different kind of illness. Cold symptoms are relatively mild, whereas the flu causes much more severe symptoms. Influenza can really wipe out even a healthy person, says Milstone. There is a vaccine to prevent, and medication to treat, certain strains of the flu.