The waiting lists for daycare programs are growing by the day. You can take advantage of this phenomenon by learning how to start a daycare in your home. Starting a daycare costs a lot of money but if you create a balanced budget, you can make a good profit your first year in business.
Starting a Daycare. Before you can set up a budget for your new daycare, you need to know exactly how to start an in home daycare. The first thing you should do is decide on the location of the daycare. You will need a large area for the children to play and a backyard where the children can run around. You can take advantage of this phenomenon by learning how to start a daycare in your home. Starting a daycare costs a lot of money but if you create a balanced budget, you can make a good profit your first year in business.
1 The cost of daycare can vary greatly from state to state and city to city. 2  Generally speaking, the busier the area, the more expensive the daycare rates will be. 3  According to babycenter, day care costs can average anywhere between $250 and $1200 per month. 4  The average national monthly cost of child care is $611. 1 Generally speaking, the busier the area, the more expensive the daycare rates will be. 2  According to babycenter, day care costs can average anywhere between $250 and $1200 per month. 3  The average national monthly cost of child care is $611. 4  Larger chains such as Kindercare may cost more than a local daycare center.
It takes money to start a nursery and success, it is important to have a clear idea of what will be needed. Daycare business start-up costs can range from a minimum of a few thousand dollars for a home-based operation to over $ 100,000 for a large center in rented premises. The costs of compliance and security can quickly add many devices and needed to be installed for fire safety fire extinguishers (fire alarms) of children’s health (first aid kit), and safety of children. Combine them with the costs of licenses and permits, and you look around $ 300 to $ 400.
Expenses. Forbes says that the costs to start a childcare center if you're taking over an existing facility can run at least $30,000. Forbes also reveals that supplies and equipment can costs between $300 to $400 per child. According to Self-Help.org, educational supplies and equipment can total up to $4,100. Other expenses include marketing costs, furniture and administrative expenses; Self-Help averaged the total costs for a start-up childcare center to be $83,030.
Child Care Insurance. Insurance costs vary by the location, size and features of your center. West Bend Mutual Insurance Company, located in Middleton, Wisconsin, reported in April 2013 that its large, commercial daycare owners had premiums around $2,000 a year. The cost for in-home daycare facilities was $250 to $500 per year. 
1 According to babycenter, day care costs can average anywhere between $250 and $1200 per month. 2  The average national monthly cost of child care is $611. 3  Larger chains such as Kindercare may cost more than a local daycare center. 1 Generally speaking, the busier the area, the more expensive the daycare rates will be. 2  According to babycenter, day care costs can average anywhere between $250 and $1200 per month. 3  The average national monthly cost of child care is $611. 4  Larger chains such as Kindercare may cost more than a local daycare center.
Startup Costs for a Day Care. I would expect that you would want to have $20,000 in cash to start an in home day care. $10,000 to pay your first few weeks of payroll and other expenses while you wait to get paid from customers/government funding programs. Then I expect the following startups costs: 
Remember to clearly distinguish between the start-up costs from operating costs to get a realistic figure of how much capital you need. The startup cost is the sum of all expenses that will be needed to the point where you can open the doors for business. The costs of compliance and security can quickly add many devices and needed to be installed for fire safety fire extinguishers (fire alarms) of children’s health (first aid kit), and safety of children. Combine them with the costs of licenses and permits, and you look around $ 300 to $ 400.