An Outlook Add-in prevents people from forwarding your emails or from replying to all the recipients of your message. couch mode print story. 1  Microsoft Outlook Add-ins for Social Networking. 2  Outlook Rule-Reply to Email Messages Automatically. 3  Essential Add-Ins for Microsoft Outlook. 
If the person you are sending the emails to isn’t using Microsoft Exchange or Outlook you may also want to just BCC all of your recipients. This doesn’t stop them from forwarding the email but if they click reply to all it will only send the email back to you instead of spamming the whole list. To disable Reply All and Forward on your sent email head over to the link below and download the NoReplyAll add-in. Once you have downloaded it, close Outlook and extract the files to run setup.exe.
Use forwarding settings in Outlook Web App to automatically forward all email sent to your Office 365 or other Microsoft Exchange-based account to another account. Use settings in Outlook Web Access to automatically forward all email sent to your Office 365 or other Exchange-based email service to another email service. After you’ve set up email forwarding, you may want to change the address your email should be forwarded to. You may also want to change the setting for keeping a copy of your email in your mailbox. Sign in to Office 365 with your work or school account. At the top of the page, select Outlook (or Mail).
1 Click Add a forwarding address in the “Forwarding” section. 2  Enter the email address you want to forward to. 3  For your security, we'll send a verification email to that address. 4  Open your other email account and find the confirmation message from the Gmail team. 5  If you’re having trouble finding it, check your Spam folder. 1 Enter the email address you want to forward to. 2  For your security, we'll send a verification email to that address. 3  Open your other email account and find the confirmation message from the Gmail team. 4  If you’re having trouble finding it, check your Spam folder. 5  Click the verification link in that email.
Under Forwarding, enter the email address you want to forward your Outlook Web App email to, set or clear the Keep a copy of forwarded messages in Outlook Web App check box, and then select Start forwarding. After you’ve set up email forwarding, you may want to change the address your email should be forwarded to. You may also want to change the setting for keeping a copy of your email in your mailbox. Sign in to Office 365 with your work or school account. At the top of the page, select Outlook (or Mail).
1 Select the Forwarding and POP/IMAP tab. 2  Click Add a forwarding address in the “Forwarding” section. 3  Enter the email address you want to forward to. 4  For your security, we'll send a verification email to that address. 5  Open your other email account and find the confirmation message from the Gmail team. 1 Enter the email address you want to forward to. 2  For your security, we'll send a verification email to that address. 3  Open your other email account and find the confirmation message from the Gmail team. 4  If you’re having trouble finding it, check your Spam folder. 5  Click the verification link in that email.
Do one or both of the following: To change the email address your mail should be forwarded to, in the Forward my email to box, edit the email address. To change the setting for keeping a copy of messages in your mailbox, select or clear the Keep a copy of forwarded messages in Outlook Web App check box. Select Save. After you’ve set up email forwarding, you may want to change the address your email should be forwarded to. You may also want to change the setting for keeping a copy of your email in your mailbox. Sign in to Office 365 with your work or school account. At the top of the page, select Outlook (or Mail).
1 Open the Gmail account that you want to forward from. 2  At the top right, click the gear. 3  Select Settings. 4  Select the Forwarding and POP/IMAP tab. 5  Click Add a forwarding address in the “Forwarding” section. 6  Enter the email address you want to forward to. 1 Enter the email address you want to forward to. 2  For your security, we'll send a verification email to that address. 3  Open your other email account and find the confirmation message from the Gmail team. 4  If you’re having trouble finding it, check your Spam folder. 5  Click the verification link in that email.
RB. Hi, I started forwarding my Microsoft Outlook emails to my yahoo last summer however I want to stop this now. I went to my account settings in Microsoft Outlook and it says there is no other connected email accounts. and it shows no other email addresses in the forwarding box. Thank you in advance!
Prevent Forwarding of Email. Step # 1: Compose your mail as usual with your recipient(s) in the To option. Step # 2: Now, go to File, select Permissions and then select Do Not Forward. Note: You will need to have Windows Rights Management Client Installed. 