Many people are surprised that Cuba is not a cheap country to travel in. The average Cuban salary is around $25 a month after all, and travellers expect prices similar to those in Central America. But as we’ve said, Cuba is unlike anywhere else we’ve visited and you can’t expect things to be that straightforward.
The best currencies to bring to Cuba are euros, Canadian dollars or pounds sterling. The worst is US dollars, for which you will be penalized with a 10% fee (on top of the normal commission) when you buy convertibles (CUC$).
If you’re based in Havana, most taxi rides that stay within the city shouldn’t cost much more than 10 CUC. A ride from the airport to central Havana should be around 20 to 25 CUC. And a trip from Havana to Trinidad (335 km) should be roughly 100 CUC. That same trip to Trinidad costs 25 CUC on the Viazul public bus.
Access is through wifi and connection gear cost around 200-300 CUC. (Bring your old PC and wifi stuff to Cuba, even used equipment is expensive for the people.) Citizens pay their connection through the same prepaid system as tourists. Campaign price is -50% from the 4.5 CUC per hour. This can be renewed online.
For now, charter carriers fly between the U.S. and Cuba. Web travel retailer Cheapair.com in April started selling tickets on Havana-bound charter flights from Miami (daily), Tampa, Fla. (twice weekly), and New York (generally weekly). Organized tours to Cuba often cost about $2,000 and up; airfare may not be included. Currency: Until U.S. rules change, take cash — euros or Canadian dollars. Change them into Cuban convertible currency (CUCs) at Cadeca currency exchanges. American dollars can be changed too, but you are penalized about 10%.
Cuba has a dual currency system: Cuban pesos (CUP) or moneda nacional are what locals earn/spend while convertible pesos (CUC) are what tourists spend and locals need for any kind of luxuries. 1 CUC is about equivalent to US$1, and 1 CUC buys 24 CUP.
We budgeted £70 a day which is about US$110 or 110 CUC for two people so we were pretty happy that we came in under budget at £58/ $88 a day or £29/ $44 per person. I doubt we could travel for that on any other Caribbean island.