­One of the most important skills for any do-it-yourselfer is to know when not to. If you have a really big project in mind, like adding a room or a project that involves skills (and tools) outside of your knowledge, turning to professionals is a good choice. Now you enter the realm of contractors and subcontractors.
Using s licensed contractor could help your avoid financial risk and other problems associated with unlicensed operators. In California, anyone who contracts to perform work on a project that is valued at $500 or more for combined labor and materials costs must hold a current, valid license from CSLB.
Building a house is a complicated process that involves knowledge of architectural design, building codes, zoning regulations and basic construction elements. A residential building contractor oversees the construction of individual houses and multi-unit housing projects.
For example, if you need only roofing or plumbing work, you may want to hire a contractor licensed in that particular specialty. A general building contractor also may contract for specialty work, but must hold a specialty license for that work or actually have a specialty contractor do the work. The only exception is if the job requires more than two types of work on a building.
A general contractor may be responsible for hiring subcontractors. General contractors oversee workers on a project. A general contractor is in charge of the entirety of a construction project.
Contracting. A building contractor finds, solicits bids from and schedules all of the subcontractors that are necessary to complete the project. The new homeowner or business owner contracts with the building contractor, and the building contractor contracts with the subcontractors and suppliers.
Contractors typically charge from 10 percent to 15 percent of the total project cost for this service. For example, if the contractor oversees a $1 million project, his fee for doing so might be in the neighborhood of $100,000 to $150,000. A potential new homeowner or business owner usually consults with two or three contractors and requests bids from each.