A negative pregnancy test can occur when you have a late period and are not pregnant. Your menstrual cycle is under hormonal control. The ovary usually releases one egg (ovulation) each month, and about two weeks after, the uterine lining sheds, resulting in menstruation.
1 Take the test too early. 2  The earlier after a missed period that you take a home pregnancy test, the harder it is for the test to detect HCG. 3  For the most accurate results, take the test one week after a missed period — when the level of HCG in your urine is most likely to be detectable.
My HCG didn't go down to zero (less than 5 - mine was 3) until 4 weeks after my miscarriage. As hard as it is to see that BFP or BFN, it's good to know where you stand. I'm still waiting for my first period since my miscarriage 6 weeks and 3 days ago.
it depends how high were your hcg levels, i was about 5 weeks when i miscarried nd my hcg were at 880 now after 1 week my hcg gone down to 100 so it all depends..to get a posi … tive your hcg levels should be higher then 4.
However, with the previous miscarriage (appx 10 weeks along) I had a positive test. This time I suspect it was a chemical pregnancy, but the test was negative.
I am not sure if it's because I had a few complications with my d&c but I continued to get a very faint positive HPT even after my Sept 17 cycle and all the way up Oct 9/13. I got a negative test on Oct 10 and ovulated on the 13th. So in total for me it was about 8 weeks.
1 Blood test. 2  This type of pregnancy test can only be done at a doctor’s office. 3  It takes longer than a urine test to get results, but it can detect a pregnancy earlier than a urine test (about 10 days after conception, compared to typically 2 weeks or more for a urine test).
It depends on how far along you were when you miscarried. Under six weeks along, a hGC levels will return to normal quickly. After that time frame it can take a week or … two for your hormones to return to normal.   It depends on how far along you were when you miscarried. Under six weeks along, a hGC levels will return to normal quickly. After that time frame it can take a week or
The time it takes for a pregnancy test to become negative following a miscarriage depends upon the gestational age at the time of miscarriage. For any pregnancy, whether it ends at term, preterm, or in miscarriage, a urine pregnancy test should be negative after six weeks. If it is not, there are three concerns: