Located in McKean County, this park is the home of the newly reinvented Kinzua Viaduct. The Viaduct, once known as the longest and tallest railroad structure at 2,053 feet long and 301 feet high, was partially destroyed by a tornado in 2003. The overlook is great for viewing fall foliage, especially in the peak viewing time of the first two weeks of October. Visitors stroll the 600-foot long walkway on the remaining support towers for the best view, and to peer down through the glass at the valley floor 225 feet below.
Tornado blew Kinzua Viaduct down By KATE DAY SAGER, The Times Herald 07/23/2003 MT. JEWETT, Pa. — The mood was somber Tuesday when area officials and members of the press toured what was left of the Kinzua Bridge. 
At approximately 15:20 EDT (20:20 UTC), the tornado touched down in Kinzua Bridge State Park, 1 mile (1.6 km) from the Kinzua Bridge. The tornado, classified as F1 on the Fujita scale, passed by the bridge and continued another 2.5 miles (4.0 km) before it lifted. Excursion trains from as far away as Buffalo, New York, and Pittsburgh would come just to cross the Kinzua Bridge, which held the height record until the Garabit Viaduct, 401 feet (122 m) tall, was completed in France in 1884.
Men look at the twisted metal that is left after a tornado destroyed Kinzua Viaduct. Snapped off, twisted trees litter the day use area of Kinzua Bridge State Park. Railroad rails bend down to the valley floor which is covered in knocked down trees at Kinzua Bridge State Park. A twisted steel tower has fallen atop the railroad ties of Kinzua Viaduct. Trees and branches litter the day use area. The overlook is great for viewing fall foliage, especially in the peak viewing time of the first two weeks of October. Visitors stroll the 600-foot long walkway on the remaining support towers for the best view, and to peer down through the glass at the valley floor 225 feet below.
That’s the last thing Pioneer Square workers and residents want to hear. “It would really be a fiasco if they had to shut down the viaduct because of this,” Kevin McCluskey said. But who and how will they determine the safety of the viaduct is still the biggest concern for city leaders. (Photo: KCPQ-TV). SEATTLE — Bertha can’t seem to catch a break. The world’s largest tunneling machine now faces a new problem, as engineers say the soil around the project has been settling, causing many to question the structural integrity of the pit and surrounding structures, including the Alaskan Way Viaduct.
17 • 2003 and 2005 state allocations totaling $2.2 billion were unusually high, demonstrating strong state commitment.• “Let’s face it, the main thing driving this [2005 gas tax package] is the viaduct and [520] bridge…two major thoroughfares that could fall down. 28 • The Viaduct has been included on every draft RTID project list. • Assuming the Viaduct is included in the final RTID package, it may be eligible for a state sales tax rebate.• RTID may choose to impose tolls on the Viaduct.
“Absolutely it's the way to go-every city should have a big tunnel underneath it,” said Hauser. “Alaskan Way Viaduct, which is old and ugly and dirty, and it's gonna fall down if the earth moves and it shakes any more, it's gonna fall.”. Big Bertha doesn't just drill-it installs concrete wall panels as it goes, leaving a finished tunnel behind. “This is a work of ar
The Kinzua Viaduct reopened to traffic on September 25, 1900. The new bridge was able to safely accommodate one of the largest steam locomotives in the world, the 511-short-ton (464 t) Big Boy. The Erie Railroad maintained a station at the Kinzua Viaduct. Excursion trains from as far away as Buffalo, New York, and Pittsburgh would come just to cross the Kinzua Bridge, which held the height record until the Garabit Viaduct, 401 feet (122 m) tall, was completed in France in 1884.
The viaduct will eventually fall down due to an earthquake, old age or a tourist kicking a pier. Let's just wait. We could spend a lot for voters to say something, but only in an advisory capacity, which is a mockery of true government. It's all money that could have been spent to actually do something. 