Pavel Tsatsouline, author of “From Russia With Tough Love: Pavel's Kettlebell Workout for a Femme Fatale,” advises staying in the more traditional pood system of kettlebell weights that come in 18-pound increments, such that you work with 0.5 poods, or 9 pounds; 1 pood, or 18 pounds; and eventually 2 poods or 36 pounds. If you plan to be a Russian Kettlebell Challenge instructor, or you want to take the RKC Snatch test as a personal goal, you’ll need to jump to 12, 14 or 16 kilograms lifted 100 times in five minutes.
Burn up to 400 calories in 20 minutes: That's what you'll get from a kettlebell workout. A kettlebell looks like a cast-iron cannonball with a handle on top. They come in various weights. You'll use them as you do things like lunges, lifts, and shoulder presses. The workout gets your heart pumping and uses up to 20 calories per minute: about as much as running a 6-minute mile. Kettlebell workouts offer a lot of flexibility. You can include a few of the moves in your own workout or do a dedicated kettlebell workout a few times a week.
Not me, that’s for the sure! If you want to take your fitness needs and body shape into your own hands, then one of the best ways you can start training at home today is to get your hands on a kettlebell. For both men and women, kettlebell training is a great way to get in shape, lose weight or improve your fitness. If your main goal is to build muscle then go for a heavier weight, as to grow muscle, you need to be doing around three sets of eight reps for each exercise. With that in mind try to pick a weight you can just about do that number of reps with. Maybe a 20 pounds or above kettlebell will be suitable
However they are more expensive, so if you are starting out, a regular kettlebell might be a better option. But for the first few months at least, you can start training at home, and get stated on the road to mastery of your personal fitness and body composition goals. If your main goal is to build muscle then go for a heavier weight, as to grow muscle, you need to be doing around three sets of eight reps for each exercise. With that in mind try to pick a weight you can just about do that number of reps with. Maybe a 20 pounds or above kettlebell will be suitable
Cost: The cost of a kettlebell ranges from $10 to $100 depending on the weight of the kettlebells (heavier ones are more expensive). You may want to buy DVDs or sign up for classes to learn the basics of a kettlebell workout. 1  1. 2  2. 3  3. Burn up to 400 calories in 20 minutes: That's what you'll get from a kettlebell workout. A kettlebell looks like a cast-iron cannonball with a handle on top. They come in various weights. You'll use them as you do things like lunges, lifts, and shoulder presses.
A range of weights will help you effectively train with kettlebells. As you get into training with kettlebells, you might read advice from trainers who -- with the best intentions -- offer information to the effect that “women can start with 15 or 20-pound kettlebells.” Don’t always believe this. If you plan to be a Russian Kettlebell Challenge instructor, or you want to take the RKC Snatch test as a personal goal, you’ll need to jump to 12, 14 or 16 kilograms lifted 100 times in five minutes.
Many who choose the kettlebell rack for their home gym also choose to hold a wide range of weights on the rack ie 2 x 4kg, 2 x 8 kg, 2 x 16 kg and so on. Doing this enbles you to vary the weight you are lifting for different exercises and also move to heavier weights as you progress. Kettlebell Gloves. When considering Kettlebell equipment to purchase one of the most obvious inclusions will be a pair of Kettlebell Gloves. Gloves are an important item for some in lifting circles and not needed whatsoever for others.
Even a 10- to 12-pound weight may be too much at first. “Learn the progression of the Turkish getup with only your body weight at first, then progress to a 5-pound dumbbell, then a 10-pound kettlebell,” advises Lorna Kleidman, a three-time kettlebell champ who teaches in New York City. If you plan to be a Russian Kettlebell Challenge instructor, or you want to take the RKC Snatch test as a personal goal, you’ll need to jump to 12, 14 or 16 kilograms lifted 100 times in five minutes.
Cost: The cost of a kettlebell ranges from $10 to $100 depending on the weight of the kettlebells (heavier ones are more expensive). You may want to buy DVDs or sign up for classes to learn the basics of a kettlebell workout. The workout gets your heart pumping and uses up to 20 calories per minute: about as much as running a 6-minute mile. Kettlebell workouts offer a lot of flexibility. You can include a few of the moves in your own workout or do a dedicated kettlebell workout a few times a week.