Report if suspected that the patient was at substantial risk of dying at the time of the adverse event, or use or continued use of the device or other medical product might have resulted in the death of the patient. Report if you believe that medical or surgical intervention was necessary to preclude permanent impairment of a body function, or prevent permanent damage to a body structure, either situation suspected to be due to the use of a medical product.
(a) Definitions. The following definitions of terms apply to this section: Adverse event means any untoward medical occurrence associated with the use of a drug in humans, whether or not considered drug related. Life-threatening adverse event or life-threatening suspected adverse reaction. For the purposes of IND safety reporting, reasonable possibility means there is evidence to suggest a causal relationship between the drug and the adverse event. Suspected adverse reaction implies a lesser degree of certainty about causality than adverse reaction, which means any adverse event caused by a drug.
21 Serious vs Severe Serious : “ Serious AE” is a regulatory definition (21 CFR 312.32) Severe :Severe is defined as an intensity classification (mild, moderate, severe) Severe AE ≠Serious AE. 22 Assessment of Relatedness In a clinical trial the study product/intervention must always be suspect. 11 Pre-existing Conditions Pre-existing condition is not an AE EXCEPT when it increases in severity or frequencyExample: A patient at baseline with mild asthma, continues to have mild asthma throughout study period: not an AE.Example: Same patient is hospitalized with severe asthma: is a serious adverse event.
(May 2013). An adverse event (AE) is any untoward medical occurrence in a patient or clinical investigation subject administered a pharmaceutical product and which does not necessarily have a causal relationship with this treatment. An adverse event can also be declared in the normal treatment of a patient which is suspected of being caused by the medication being taken or a medical device used in the treatment of the patient. In Australia, 'Adverse EVENT' refers generically to medical errors of all kinds, surgical, medical or nursing related.
An adverse event is any undesirable experience associated with the use of a medical product in a patient. The event is serious and should be reported to FDA when the patient outcome is: Report if you believe that medical or surgical intervention was necessary to preclude permanent impairment of a body function, or prevent permanent damage to a body structure, either situation suspected to be due to the use of a medical product.
A serious adverse event (SAE) in human drug trials are defined as any untoward medical occurrence that at any dose. 1  results in death, 2  is life-threatening. 3  requires inpatient hospitalization or causes prolongation of existing hospitalization. 4  results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, 
NCI Guidelines: Adverse Event Reporting Requirements February 29, 2012 Page 4 Investigators MUST immediately report to the sponsor any AE that is serious (see section 2.1.22 for definition of serious AE) (21 CFR 312.64b, 21 CFR 812). NCI Guidelines: Adverse Event Reporting Requirements February 29, 2012 Page 5 2 Tools for AE Reporting: 2.1 Basic Terminology: 2.1.1 Adverse Event (AE or Adverse Experience): Any untoward medical occurrence associated with the use of a drug in humans, whether or not considered drug related.
An adverse event (AE) can therefore be any unfavourable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding, for example), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product. 2. 
Emergency room visits that do not result in admission to the hospital should be evaluated for one of the other serious outcomes (e.g., life-threatening; required intervention to prevent permanent impairment or damage; other serious medically important event). Report if you believe that medical or surgical intervention was necessary to preclude permanent impairment of a body function, or prevent permanent damage to a body structure, either situation suspected to be due to the use of a medical product.
An adverse event (AE) can therefore be any unfavourable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal (investigational) product, whether or not related to the medicinal (investigational) product. An adverse event can also be declared in the normal treatment of a patient which is suspected of being caused by the medication being taken or a medical device used in the treatment of the patient. In Australia, 'Adverse EVENT' refers generically to medical errors of all kinds, surgical, medical or nursing related.