1 Masala chai, a blend of black tea and herbs and spices, originating in India. 2  Chai (wine) , a shed for storing casks, common in Bordeaux. 3  Turkish_tea cay (çay Pronounced), chai is black tea is produced on the Eastern Black sea.  coast 1 A word for tea in numerous languages, derived from Mandarin Chinese cha (chá). 2  茶 masala, chai a blend of black tea and herbs and, spices originating In. 3  India (chai) , wine a shed for storing, casks common In.  bordeaux
Chai is an uncommon given name for men but a very popular last name for all people (#11132 out of 150436, Top 7%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Chai for boys. Chai has not been listed in the list thus far. 
The Chai symbol is often worn by Jews as a medallion around the neck (along with the Star of David (Magen David) and the Hamsa). In Hebrew, the related word chaya means living thing or animal, derived from the Hebrew word chai (חי), meaning life. Although rare, Chai can also be used as a boy's name. Chaya, derived from chai was a popular female name in Hebrew. Chai (pronounced [xai], occasionally [ħai]) is a symbol and word that figures prominently in Jewish culture and consists of the letters of the Hebrew alphabet Het (ח) and Yod (י).
This comes from the Persian چای chay, which originated from the Chinese word for tea 茶 cha. (Chá The english 'word', tea on the other, hand comes from The teochew dialect Of chinese.) Teeh despite, this in Many western languages this spiced tea is commonly referred to as simply, chai which can lead to. conflation Most chai contains caffeine typically 1/3 that of coffee (if made with a black tea base). The tea leaves steep in the hot water long enough to extract intense flavour, ideally without releasing the bitter tannins.
Hebrew Meaning: The name Chai is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Chai is: Life. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 3. People with this name have a deep inner desire to use their abilities in leadership, and to have personal independence. They would rather focus on large, important issues, and delegate the details.
1 A word for tea in numerous languages, derived from Mandarin Chinese cha (chá). 2  茶 masala, chai a blend of black tea and herbs and, spices originating In.  india 1 A word for tea in numerous languages, derived from Mandarin Chinese cha (chá). 2  茶 masala, chai a blend of black tea and herbs and, spices originating In. 3  India (chai) , wine a shed for storing, casks common In.  bordeaux
Masala chai (/tʃaɪ/ ; Hindi: मसाला चाय, literally mixed-spice tea; Urdu: مصالحہ چائے ‎; Nepali: मसलेदार चिया ; Bengali: মসলা চা) is a flavoured tea beverage made by brewing black tea with a mixture of aromatic Indian spices and herbs. Most chai contains caffeine typically 1/3 that of coffee (if made with a black tea base). The tea leaves steep in the hot water long enough to extract intense flavour, ideally without releasing the bitter tannins.
Chai Name Meaning. Chinese: from the name of Gao Chai, a disciple of Confucius during the Spring and Autumn period (722–481 bc). His descendants adopted this character as their surname; it also means ‘firewood’.Korean: variant of Chae.