The ELANE gene provides instructions for making a protein called neutrophil elastase. This protein is found in neutrophils, a type of white blood cell that plays a role in inflammation and in fighting infection. When the body starts an immune response to fight an infection, neutrophils release neutrophil elastase. These mutations are thought to create an abnormal protein that retains some function. However, neutrophils that produce abnormal neutrophil elastase proteins appear to have a shorter lifespan than normal. The shorter neutrophil lifespan is thought to be responsible for the cyclic nature of this condition.
Neutrophils. Neutrophils, the most common type of white blood cell in the bloodstream, are among the first immune cells to defend against infection. They ingest bacteria and other foreign cells. Neutrophils contain granules that release enzymes to help kill and digest these cells. Neutrophils circulate in the bloodstream and must be signaled to leave the bloodstream and enter tissues.
Neutrophils also release an assortment of proteins in three types of granules by a process called degranulation. The contents of these granules have antimicrobial properties, and help combat infection. Neutrophil granulocytes (also known as neutrophils) are the most abundant (40% to 75%) type of white blood cells in most mammals and form an essential part of the innate immune system. Functionality varies in different animals. They are formed from stem cells in the bone marrow. They are short-lived and highly motile.
Neutrophil elastase (EC 3.4.21.37, leukocyte elastase, ELANE, ELA2, elastase 2, neutrophil, elaszym, serine elastase) is a serine proteinase in the same family as chymotrypsin and has broad substrate specificity. Secreted by neutrophils and macrophages during inflammation, it destroys bacteria and host tissue. Neutrophil elastase hydrolyzes proteins within specialized neutrophil lysosomes, called azurophil granules, as well as proteins of the extracellular matrix following the protein's release from activated neutrophils.
In addition to killing bacteria by phagocytosis (engulfing), the neutrophils also can release a jumble of fibers in the form of a net called a neutrophil extracellular trap (NET). This kills microbes outside of the cell when the neutrophils release proteins in granules. Neutrophils also release superoxide. In chemotaxis, the neutrophils recognize chemicals that are produced by bacteria and leave the blood vessels and go into the tissues following the trail of chemicals. When they find a bacteria cell, they completely surround it and digest it (basically tear it appart with chemicals).
Neutrophils are the first line of defense at the site of an infection. They encounter and kill microbes intracellularly upon phagocytosis or extracellularly by degranulation of antimicrobial proteins and the release of Neutrophil Extracellular Traps (NETs). NETs were shown to ensnare and kill microbes. Notably, neutrophils may also kill or inhibit extracellularly by releasing Neutrophil Extracellular Traps (NETs). NETs are fibers made of chromatin (histones and DNA) decorated with antimicrobial proteins. NETs ensnare and kill microbes, such as bacteria, fungi and parasites.
Phagocytosis. Several types of cells in the immune system engulf microorganisms via phagocytosis. 1  Neutrophils. 2  Neutrophils are abundant in the blood, quickly enter tissues, and phagocytize pathogens in acute inflammation. 3  Macrophages. 4  Macrophages are closely related to monocytes in the blood. 
Neutrophils. Neutrophils are a kind of white blood cell. Filled with enzymes, they help phagocytic cells kill and digest microorganisms that they have engulfed. Neutrophils are the body's main immune response to assaults on the body by bacteria and fungi. In chemotaxis, the neutrophils recognize chemicals that are produced by bacteria and leave the blood vessels and go into the tissues following the trail of chemicals. When they find a bacteria cell, they completely surround it and digest it (basically tear it appart with chemicals).