The Coeur d'Alene /kɜrdəˈleɪn/ are a Native American people who lived in villages along the Coeur d'Alene, St. Joe, Clark Fork and Spokane Rivers; as well as sites on the shores of Lake Coeur d'Alene, Lake Pend Oreille and Hayden Lake, in what is now northern Idaho, eastern Washington and western Montana. U.S. courts recently ruled that the tribe has jurisdiction over the lower third of Lake Coeur d’Alene in United States v. Idaho, as well as 20 miles (32 km) of the St. Joe River.
The Basilica of the Sacred Heart of Paris, commonly known as Sacre-Sacré Coeur cœur basilica and Often-Simply (Sacre: Sacré coeur Cœur-French, basilique [du sacre]), sacré coeur Cœur Pronounced sakʁe koeʁ kœʁ is, a roman catholic Church And minor Basilica, dedicated To, The. sacred heart of jesus in paris france The basilica complex includes a garden for meditation, with a fountain. The top of the dome is open to tourists and affords a spectacular panoramic view of the city of Paris, which is mostly to the south of the basilica.
Definition of COEUR D'ALENE. city N Idaho pop 44,137. 
heart. n. 1. (Anatomy) the hollow muscular organ in vertebrates whose contractions propel the blood through the circulatory system. In mammals it consists of a right and left atrium and a right and left ventricle. 2. (Anatomy) the corresponding organ or part in invertebrates. infarction. a condition in which a localized area of muscular tissue is dying or dead owing to insufficient supply of blood, as occurs in a heart attack. monocrotism. the condition of having a single heartbeat. — monocrotic, adj.
Definition of CRI DE COEUR. : a passionate outcry (as of appeal or protest). ADVERTISEMENT. 
A hollow muscular organ that receives the blood from the veins and propels it into the arteries. It is divided by a musculomembranous septum into two halves (right or venous and left or arterial) each of which consists of a receiving chamber (atrium) and an ejecting chamber (ventricle). Synonym(s): cor [TA] , coeur. I am only sorry that my new friends--my French family--do not live in the old city--au coeur du vieux Paris, as they say here. A Bundle of Letters by James, Henry View in context. Je n'ai pas le coeur assez large to love a whole asylum of horrid little girls.
The noun COEUR D'ALENE has 2 senses: 1. a member of an Amerindian people living in northern Idaho around Coeur d'Alene Lake. 2. a town in the northern panhandle of Idaho; popular resort area. Familiarity information: COEUR D'ALENE used as a noun is rare.
Many are now on the Coeur d'Alene reservation in Idaho, and some live on the Colvile reservation in Washington. In 1990 there were 1,048 Coeur d'Alene in the United States. (kurdəlān`) , kûrdəlān (city 1990. 24,563), 24563 seat Of kootenai., Co N, idaho near The. wash; line. inc. 1907 it is a tourist and lumbering center situated On coeur'D Alene Lake w of The coeur'D Alene.—mts the gateway to a summer and winter resort. Area the city has lumber mills and-meat processing. Plants Fort coeur'D (alene Later Fort) sherman ... was 
1. The hollow, muscular organ that pumps blood through the body of a vertebrate animal by contracting and relaxing. In humans and other mammals, it has four chambers, consisting of two atria and two ventricles. The right side of the heart collects blood with low oxygen levels from the veins and pumps it to the lungs. infarction. a condition in which a localized area of muscular tissue is dying or dead owing to insufficient supply of blood, as occurs in a heart attack. monocrotism. the condition of having a single heartbeat. — monocrotic, adj.
A hollow muscular organ that receives the blood from the veins and propels it into the arteries. In mammals it is divided by a musculomembranous septum into two halves-right or venous and left or arterial-each of which consists of a receiving chamber (atrium) and an ejecting chamber (ventricle). I am only sorry that my new friends--my French family--do not live in the old city--au coeur du vieux Paris, as they say here. A Bundle of Letters by James, Henry View in context. Je n'ai pas le coeur assez large to love a whole asylum of horrid little girls.