Mica is a mineral name given to a group of minerals that are similar in their physical properties and chemical compositions. They are all silicate minerals, which means that chemically they all contain silica (SiO 4). 
Muscovite Mica origins. Muscovite is a constituent of acid igneous rocks like granite, pegmatite or alaskite, some regionally metamorphosed rocs and clastic sedimentary rocks, ad is a product of alteration. Most commercial deposits are derived from pegmatites which contain 1-2% and rarely up to 10% muscovite. Mica is found in many regions of the world in the form of pegmatite rock and mica schist. Muscovite Mica is a hydrated silicate of potassium and aluminium.
Pipe mica veins have been worked upto a maximum depth of 200 metres. Mica is invaluable in the electrical industry because of its unique combination of physical, chemical and thermal properties, low power loss factor, dielectric constant and dielectric strength. Dieletric strength is the ability to withstand high voltage without puncturing. Waste or scrap mica is used invariably in the form of ground mica. The uses of ground mica depend largely upon its appearance and lubricating properties. Both of these characteristics are affected by the methods of grinding as well as teh purity and nature of the scrap.
The Mineral muscovite. Muscovite is the most common form of mica. Its name is derived from Muscovy Glass, which describes thick sheets of transparent mica that were once used as a glass substitute in Russia. Because of Muscovite's abundance, its presence is usually lacking in collections except for it being an accessory mineral to other minerals.
• Zoisite. Mica is invaluable in the electrical industry because of its unique combination of physical, chemical and thermal properties, low power loss factor, dielectric constant and dielectric strength. In Latin it is known as micare which mean to shine or to glitter or the Latin mica is a crumb or grain. Waste or scrap mica is used invariably in the form of ground mica. The uses of ground mica depend largely upon its appearance and lubricating properties. Both of these characteristics are affected by the methods of grinding as well as teh purity and nature of the scrap.
The commercially important micas are muscovite and phlogopite, which are used in a variety of applications. Mica’s value is based on several of its unique physical properties. The crystalline structure of mica forms layers that can be split or delaminated into thin sheets usually causing foliation in rocks. All are monoclinic, with a tendency towards pseudohexagonal crystals, and are similar in chemical composition. The nearly perfect cleavage, which is the most prominent characteristic of mica, is explained by the hexagonal sheet-like arrangement of its atoms.
Mica. Images: Type: mineral_group. Description: Mica is a mineral name given to a group of minerals that are physically and chemically similar. They are all silicate minerals, known as sheet silicates because they form in distinct layers. Micas are fairly light and relatively soft, and the sheets and flakes of mica are flexible. 
Biotite is a name used for a large group of black mica minerals that are commonly found in igneous and metamorphic rocks. These include: annite, phlogopite, siderophyllite, fluorophlogopite, fluorannite, eastonite and many others. Experienced observers can sometimes recognize phlogopite by its brown color. As noted above, biotite is a name used for a number of black mica minerals that have different chemical compositions but very similar physical properties. These minerals generally can not be distinguished from one another without laboratory analysi
Muscovite is the most common mineral of the mica family. It is an important rock-forming mineral present in igneous, metamorphic and sedimentary rocks. Like other micas it readily cleaves into thin transparent sheets. Muscovite is easily identified because its perfect cleavage allows it to be split into thin, flexible, elastic, colorless, transparent sheets with a pearly to vitreous luster. It is the only common mineral with these properties. Muscovite is found