Views: 3Votes: 5. If you have never been infested before, it could take several weeks to one and a half months after the initial scabies infestation for scabies mite symptoms to show up. If you have been infested with mites previously, symptoms will appear in 1 to 5 days. 
Human scabies is caused by an infestation of the skin by the human itch mite (Sarcoptes scabiei var. hominis). The microscopic scabies mite burrows into the upper layer of the skin where it lives and lays its eggs. The most common symptoms of scabies are intense itching and a pimple-like skin rash. The scabies mite usually is spread by direct, prolonged, skin-to-skin contact with a person who has scabies. An infested person can spread scabies even if he or she has no symptoms. Humans are the source of infestation; animals do not spread human scabies. The female mite burrows under the skin and begins laying eggs within hours (two to three eggs daily). The eggs hatch and become adult mites within 10 days. Symptoms, primarily itching, appear approximately four weeks from the time of contact as a result of sensitization to the presence of immature mites.
How long can scabies mites live? On a person, scabies mites can live for as long as 1-2 months. Off a person, scabies mites usually do not survive more than 48-72 hours. Scabies mites will die if exposed to a temperature of 50°C (122°F) for 10 minutes.
When a person gets scabies for the first time, symptoms may not appear until 2 months after exposure. However, even if you don't have symptoms, you can still spread the mite during this time. If a person has already had scabies, symptoms may appear 1 to 4 days after exposure. 
On a person, scabies mites can live for as long as 1-2 months. Off a person, scabies mites usually do not survive more than 48-72 hours. Scabies mites will die if exposed to a temperature of 50°C (122°F) for 10 minutes. The scabies mite usually is spread by direct, prolonged, skin-to-skin contact with a person who has scabies. Scabies is found worldwide and affects people of all races and social classes. Scabies can spread rapidly under crowded conditions where close body and skin contact is frequent.
Disease. When a person is infested with scabies mites the first time, symptoms usually do not appear for up to two months (2-6 weeks) after being infested; however, an infested person still can spread scabies during this time even though he/she does not have symptoms. If a person has had scabies before, symptoms appear much sooner (1-4 days) after exposure. An infested person can transmit scabies, even if they do not have symptoms, until they are successfully treated and the mites and eggs are destroyed.
The first time a person gets scabies, the symptoms may appear anywhere from two to six weeks after exposure. If a person has had scabies before, he or she is more sensitive and symptoms appear much more quickly, often within one to four days. Scabies is a disease of the skin caused by a mite. Scabies mites burrow into the skin, producing pimple-like irritations or burrows. This is called an ‘infestation’.
It is important to remember that an infested person can spread scabies during this time, even if he/she does not have symptoms yet. In a person who has had scabies before, symptoms usually appear much sooner (1-4 days) after exposure. The scabies mite usually is spread by direct, prolonged, skin-to-skin contact with a person who has scabies. Scabies is found worldwide and affects people of all races and social classes. Scabies can spread rapidly under crowded conditions where close body and skin contact is frequent.
On a person, scabies mites can live for as long as 1-2 months. Off a person, scabies mites usually do not survive more than 48-72 hours. Scabies mites will die if exposed to a temperature of 50°C (122°F) for 10 minutes. If a person has never had scabies before, symptoms may take as long as 4-6 weeks to begin. It is important to remember that an infested person can spread scabies during this time, even if he/she does not have symptoms yet.