Share to: It takes 28 days for duck eggs to hatch.....and it takes 21 days for baby chicks to hatch and you can only put 12 eggs under neath a chicken.. Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. + 158 others found this useful
Birds built a nest and laid eggs in my grill. I left them alone, but I think the birds abandoned the nest. I want to cook on my grill, but I want to give the little guys a chance too. How long does it usually take bird eggs to hatch. Don't know what kind of bird this is, but they're tiny eggs. It could take up to a month for them to hatch and then weeks to months (again depending) for them to leave the nest. Keep a watch on the nest from a distance and see if mother comes to sit on them, especially at night. She should be there most of the time but might be startled away by proximity of people.
So, how long does it take for fertilized chicken eggs to hatch? The answer to that is 21 days exactly, although you need to bear in mind that this can vary, depending on a number of circumstances. If on the other hand you use an incubator in order to hatch fertilized chicken eggs, they can sometimes hatch a day or two early, or they can also hatch out a few days late. Things like humidity and temperature play a significant role.
How long does it take for a chicken egg to hatch? With optimum conditions such as temperature and humidity a chicken egg takes 21 days to hatch.    From when it was layed, about 20-28 days,depending on the breed. From th … e time when the egg first cracked, about one day. Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. + 158 others found this useful
Best Answer: Hi, it depends on the bird breed. Some eggs like robins take 10 to 14 days. Some eggs like the ostrich take up to four weeks etc. But it's going to be hard to hatch the egg you've found as you don't know what breed it is; therefore you don't know what temperature is needed to hatch it. But good luck anyway :-).
It takes about12-14 days (a week and 5 days- 2 weeks) for robin bird eggs to hatch :). Depends on the bird. Chicken: 21 days Duck: 28 days Geese: roughly a month Peafowl: 28 days Blue Jay: 18 days Robin: 12-14 days.
Whereas fertilized chicken eggs usually take exactly 21 days to hatch, most duck eggs take 28 days, apart from Muscovy ducks. As a general rule of thumb, the eggs of Muscovy ducks take 35 days, but once again, it can vary slightly depending on conditions. If on the other hand you use an incubator in order to hatch fertilized chicken eggs, they can sometimes hatch a day or two early, or they can also hatch out a few days late. Things like humidity and temperature play a significant role.
Do you know how long the egg has been left out to the elements? Even if you were successful in getting an egg to hatch, the survival chances of the young nestling would be minimal at best. Feeding a nestling would require a commitment of 16 hours a day 7 days a week for 2 weeks on average. Dietary needs of baby birds vary with species. Not all birds eat worms. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: It varies by species..but most passerines (perching birds) take approximately 2 weeks to hatch their eggs, and usually another 2 weeks before the young leave the nest. It could take up to a month for them to hatch and then weeks to months (again depending) for them to leave the nest. Keep a watch on the nest from a distance and see if mother comes to sit on them, especially at night. She should be there most of the time but might be startled away by proximity of people.