The conjunctiva also lines the insides of the eyelids. The cornea is a dome-shaped structure at the front of the eye. It is transparent, allowing light to enter the eye, and together with the lens helps focus and direct light onto the retina. 
The optic nerve is a motor nerve that connects the retina of the eye with the brain. This nerve penetrates the choroid and the sclera from the rear of the eye at the optic disc where it is met with the other optic nerve to form the optic chiasma. Towards the posterior part of the retina is the macula lutea which is the most responsive part of this layer. Where the optic nerve leaves the eye, there is a blind spot in the vision, this part, known as the optic disc has no light-sensitive cells.
Although it is small, the eye is a complex organ. To enable clear vision, all structures within the eye must function properly in order to capture light, focus it, and relay messages back to the brain to create a visual image. This complexity is what makes eye anatomy such a fascinating subject. The lens is a clear structure behind the pupil that does just what a regular lens does. The main purpose of the lens is to focus light by changing shape. The ciliary body is a muscle group attached to the lens that help the lens change its shape to better focus light on the retina.
The outer covering of the eyeball consists of a relatively tough, white layer called the sclera (or white of the eye). Near the front of the eye, in the area protected by the eyelids, the sclera is covered by a thin, transparent membrane (conjunctiva), which runs to the edge of the cornea. The conjunctiva also covers the moist back surface of the eyelids and eyeballs. Light enters the eye through the cornea, the clear, curved layer in front of the iris and pupil. The cornea serves as a protective covering for the front of the eye and also helps focus light on the retina at the back of the eye. After passing through the cornea, light travels through the pupil (the black dot in the middle of the eye)
EYE STRUCTURE AND FUNCTION. E ye is like a camera. The external object is seen like the camera takes the picture of any object. Light enters the eye through a small hole called the pupil and is focused on the retina, which is like a camera film. Eye also has a focusing lens, which focuses images from different distances on the retina. The colored ring of the eye, the iris, controls the amount of light entering the eye. It closes when light is bright and opens when light is dim. A tough white sheet called sclera covers the outside of the eye. Front of this sheet (sclera) is transparent in order to allow the light to enter the eye, the cornea.
Most of the eye is filled with a clear gel called the vitreous. Light projects through the pupil and the lens to the back of the eye. The inside lining of the eye is covered by special light-sensing cells that are collectively called the retina. The retina converts light into electrical impulses. Behind the eye, the optic nerve carries these impulses to the brain
Eye and Its Function. Eye Structure: Cornea-A clear, dome-shaped window in the very front of the eye. It acts as a window for light to pass in. Sclera The sclera is what is known as the white of the eye. It serves as the eye s protective coat. Lens The lens is a crystalline structure that focuses light into the retina. In a healthy eye, the lens changes shape to adjust for close or distance vis
Cornea. The cornea and sclera form the outer fibrous layer of the eye. The cornea is a clear transparent tissue, which is located forward of the eyeball. Light rays pass through this limpid tissue, and on through the crystalline lens to reach the retina. Towards the posterior part of the retina is the macula lutea which is the most responsive part of this layer. Where the optic nerve leaves the eye, there is a blind spot in the vision, this part, known as the optic disc has no light-sensitive cells.
EYE STRUCTURE AND FUNCTION Eye is like a camera. The external object is seen like the camera takes the picture of any object. Light enters the eye through a small hole called the pupil and is focused on the retina, which is like a camera film. Eye also has a focusing lens, which focuses images from different distances on the retina. The colored ring of the eye, the iris, controls the amount of light entering the eye. It closes when light is bright and opens when light is dim. A tough white sheet called sclera covers the outside of the eye. Front of this sheet (sclera) is transparent in order to allow the light to enter the eye, the cornea.