The pancreas is in the abdomen, behind the stomach. It is shaped a little like a tadpole and is approximately 25cm long. The pancreas is an organ of the digestive system and o … f the endocrine (hormonal) system. The pancreas adds its own digestive juices and enzymes to food in the duodenum, via a small duct.
The pancreas is in the abdomen, behind the stomach. It is shaped a little like a tadpole and is approximately 25cm long. The pancreas is an organ of the digestive system and o … f the endocrine (hormonal) system. The pancreas adds its own digestive juices and enzymes to food in the duodenum, via a small duct.
The pancreas is a small (5 to 6 inches) gland that produces insulin and enzymes used for digestion. Insulin regulates the use of blood sugar throughout the body and is therefo … re necessary for life. The pancreas also produces a fluid that neutralizes stomach acid.
Illustration: pancreas and nearby organs. Illustration: the pancreas, common bile duct, and small intestine. The pancreas is divided into the head, body, and tail regions. The head of the pancreas is located on the right side of the abdomen, is the largest part of the organ, and is nestled in the duodenum. The duodenum is the first part of the small intestine and extends immediately from the stomach. The body of the pancreas extends across the spine and is in the midline of the abdomen. The tail of the pancreas is located on the left side of the abdomen and is adjacent to the spleen. The pancreas makes insulin as well as other hormones. These hormones enter the bloodstream and travel throughout the body. They help the body use or store the energy that comes from food.
Front View of the Pancreas. The pancreas is about 6 inches long and sits across the back of the abdomen, behind the stomach. The head of the pancreas is on the right side of the abdomen and is connected to the duodenum (the first section of the small intestine) through a small tube called the pancreatic duct. The narrow end of the pancreas, called the tail, extends to the left side of the body.