Alpha Centauri is part of a double, or triple, star system. The two main components are Alpha Centauri A and Alpha Centauri B. The third star, a red dwarf called Proxima Centauri, is thought to be about 4.22 light-years distant and is actually our sun’s closest neighbor among the stars. A comparison of the sizes and colors of the stars in the Alpha Centauri system with our sun. Via Wikimedia Commons. Alpha Centauri A and B are a double-star system, and a third star Proxima – whose location with respect to the other two is indicated here by arrow – might or might not be gravitationally bound to them.
The latest rogue world to be found is exciting in that it is the closest such object to our Solar System so far. At a distance of about 100 light-years, its comparative proximity, along with the absence of a bright star very close to it, has allowed the team to study its atmosphere in great detail. This is the closest such object to the Solar System and the most exciting candidate free-floating planet found so far. It does not orbit a star and hence does not shine by reflected light; the faint glow it emits can only be detected in infrared light.
This list contains all known stars and brown dwarfs at a distance of up to 5 parsecs (16.3 light-years) from the Solar System. In addition to the Solar System, there are another 54 stellar systems currently known lying within this distance. These systems contain a total of 56 hydrogen-fusing stars (of which 46 are red dwarfs), 14 brown dwarfs, and 4 white dwarfs.
On the other hand, open clusters consist of young, hot stars that tend to disperse after hundreds of millions of years. Messier 4 or M4 from European Southern Observatory. Bottom line: M4 or Messier 4 is a globular star cluster, one of the nearest to our solar system. It’s also one of the easiest of all globular clusters to find, in a dark sky.
Bottom line: The Alpha Centauri system is the closest star system to our sun. On our sky’s dome, we see this multiple system as a single star – the third-brightest star visible from Earth. Charts, photos and info about this fascinating star system. A comparison of the sizes and colors of the stars in the Alpha Centauri system with our sun. Via Wikimedia Commons. Alpha Centauri A and B are a double-star system, and a third star Proxima – whose location with respect to the other two is indicated here by arrow – might or might not be gravitationally bound to them.
Of course, none of these are actually the closest to us; the Pleiades is simply the brightest star cluster in the night sky. But if you can learn how to find the Pleiades, you can find our closest star cluster! Here’s how it goes. Image credit: Jerry Lodriguss. But our nearest major star, alpha centauri, the yellow guy (below, found near the Southern Cross) is over four light years away from us. But not every star is as lonely as ours is! Stars, as you may know, don’t form one-at-a-time, in isolation.
Still, we say – and others say – that Alpha Centauri is the closest star to our solar system, with the assumption that Proxima is a true part of the Alpha Centauri system. If you looked through a small telescope at the Alpha Centauri system, you’d see the two main stars, but you wouldn’t see Proxima Centauri. A comparison of the sizes and colors of the stars in the Alpha Centauri system with our sun. Via Wikimedia Commons. Alpha Centauri A and B are a double-star system, and a third star Proxima – whose location with respect to the other two is indicated here by arrow – might or might not be gravitationally bound to them.
An open cluster, also known as galactic cluster, is a group of up to a few thousand stars that were formed from the same giant molecular cloud and have roughly the same age. The nearest open cluster is the Hyades: the stellar association consisting of most of the Plough stars is at about half the distance of the Hyades, but is a stellar association rather than an open cluster as the stars are not gravitationally bound to each other.
This is M4, one of the closest globular star clusters to our solar system. At nightfall, look in your southern sky for the bright ruddy star that is called the Scorpion’s Heart – Antares, the brightest star in the constellation Scorpius. Antares is always up on summer evenings. Messier 4 or M4 from European Southern Observatory. Bottom line: M4 or Messier 4 is a globular star cluster, one of the nearest to our solar system. It’s also one of the easiest of all globular clusters to find, in a dark sky.
Proxima is the closest star to Earth. Faint red Proxima Centauri – at only 3,100 K and 500 times less bright than our sun – is nearly a fifth of a light year from Alpha Centauri A and B. This great distance is what calls into question its status as part of a triple star system. A comparison of the sizes and colors of the stars in the Alpha Centauri system with our sun. Via Wikimedia Commons. Alpha Centauri A and B are a double-star system, and a third star Proxima – whose location with respect to the other two is indicated here by arrow – might or might not be gravitationally bound to them.