Lotus corniculatus is a common flowering plant in the pea family Fabaceae, native to grassland in temperate Eurasia and North Africa. Common names include common bird's-foot trefoil and just bird's-foot trefoil, though the common name is often also applied to other members of the genus. It is also known in cultivation in North America as bird's-foot deervetch. It is a perennial herbaceous plant, similar in appearance to some clovers
Birdsfoot Trefoil Seed-Birdsfoot trefoil is a long-lived perennial legume ideally suited for many pastures in central northeast. Birdsfoot Trefoil Seed - 50 lb. bag. Birdsfoot Trefoil Seed-Birdsfoot trefoil is a long-lived perennial legume ideally suited for many grass-legume pastures in central northeast. It...
Appearance: Perennial herbaceous plant, 12 - 24 tall; the clover-like plant has a sprawling growth pattern. Leaves: Three clover-like leaflets on a short stem with two additional leaflets at the base of the stem. Flowers: Yellow pea-like flowers occur typically in flat-topped clusters of 3 -12, 0.5 long flowers which are sometimes tinged with red. Blooms most of the summer.
Native Range: Europe, Asia (BAIL); Birdsfoot trefoil is a low-growing, perennial forb with stems that can reach 2 ft. (0.6 m) long. Leaves are compound (with 5 oval to linear leaflets), stipulate and alternate. Leaflets (upper 3) are 0.5 in. (1.3 cm) long and less than 1/8 in. (0.3 cm) wide; the lower two resemble leaf-like stipules. (1.5-3.5 cm) long, contains up to 49 seeds and has a persistent style at the apex. Birdsfoot trefoil is native to Eurasia and North Africa and occurs in pastures, roadsides, wetlands, disturbed grasslands and riparian areas.
Lotus corniculatus L., Birdsfoot Trefoil is a short-lived, non-bloating perennial legume which has the ability to reseed itself under proper management. Stems are smaller in diameter and less rigid than alfalfa stems and can grow to a height of 12 to 30 inches depending on whether it is a prostrate or erect variety. 
Birdsfoot Trefoil Seed. Birdsfoot Trefoil Seed-Birdsfoot trefoil is a long lived perennial legume ideally suited for many pastures in central northeast. Birdsfoot Trefoil grows and produces forage during July and August when most cool season grasses are semi dormant. Birdsfoot Trefoil Seed - 50 lb. bag. Birdsfoot Trefoil Seed-Birdsfoot trefoil is a long-lived perennial legume ideally suited for many grass-legume pastures in central northeast. It...
By: Vicki Medland | Published: June 26, 2012 | Comments Off. Lotus corniculatus (Birdsfoot Trefoil). It seems there is an abundance of Lotus corniculatus (Birdsfoot trefoil) along the edges of the paths in the Cofrin Arboretum right now. The name originates from the seed pods that fan out from the stem like a bird foot. The three-lobed trefoil leaves are found in many species in the pea family (Fabaceae). 
Soils with low pH, poor drainage, poor native fertility or fragipans prone to heaving are not suited to alfalfa production. Birdsfoot trefoil (Lotus corniculatus L.) is a forage legume that is more tolerant of these adverse production conditions. 
Birdsfoot trefoil is a perennial that adapts well to production on poorly drained, low-pH soils. Figure 1. Birdsfoot trefoil. Producing high-quality forage for cattle and sheep has traditionally been difficult on marginal lands in Pennsylvania and New York. Soils with few limitations are generally sown to alfalfa. Soils with a low pH, poor drainage, poor native fertility, or fragipans prone to heaving are not suitable for alfalfa production. Birdsfoot trefoil (Lotus corniculatus L.) is a forage legume that is more tolerant of these adverse production conditions. Birdsfoot trefoil is a perennial that adapts well to production on poorly drained, low-pH soils (Table 1). It can reseed itself, is resistant to Phytophthora root rot and numerous alfalfa insects, responds well to fertilization, and does not cause bloat in animals. 