Welcome! Welcome to the Elder William Brewster Society Website! The Society meets once every three years at the Mayflower Society General Congress in Plymouth, Massachusetts. Here we meet our cousins and enjoy entertainment and a bountiful buffet. We welcome new members. Welcome to the Elder William Brewster Society Website! The Society meets once every three years at the Mayflower Society General Congress in Plymouth, Massachusetts. Here we meet our cousins and enjoy entertainment and a bountiful buffet
William Brewster was born on July 5, 1851, in South Reading (now Wakefield), Massachusetts, the youngest of four children born to John Brewster, a successful Boston banker, and Rebecca Parker (Noyes). William Brewster (July 5, 1851 – July 11, 1919) was an American ornithologist. He co-founded the American Ornithologists' Union (AOU) and was an early naturalist and conservationist.
William Brewster was born at Scrooby, Nottinghamshire, England, probably between 1560 and 1566. As a young man, he attended Cambridge University but did not graduate. He then served as an assistant to William Davison, one of Queen Elizabeth I's secretaries of state, accompanying him on a diplomatic mission to Holland. Brewster's wife Mary was also a Mayflower passenger. She died in 1627. William and Mary Brewster had 6 children: Jonathan, Patience, Fear, Love, an unnamed child who died young, and Wrestling.
William Brewster was most probably born in Scrooby, Nottinghamshire, England, about 1566, and died at Duxbury, Plymouth Colony, on 10 April 1644. William Brewster (c. 1566 – 10 April 1644) was an English official and Mayflower passenger in 1620. In Plymouth Colony he became a Separatist leader and preacher.
Encyclopedia of World Biography | 2004. COPYRIGHT 2004 The Gale Group Inc. The English-born Pilgrim leader William Brewster (ca. 1566-1644) was the ruling elder of the Separatist group at Scrooby, England, before he and the congregation migrated to Holland and, finally, to New Plymouth in America. William Brewster was 10 years old when his father was appointed postmaster and bailiff at Scrooby Manor, an official resting place on the main road from London to Edinburgh. In 1580 Brewster entered Cambridge University but left without a degree.
William BREWSTER, son of William and Mary (SMYTHE) BREWSTER of Scrooby, England, was born in January 1563/4. He was regarded as leader of the Pilgrims at Scrooby (near Sherwood Forest), where his father became bailiff of the Manor of Scrooby in 1675, and was later appointed postmaster by Queen Elizabeth. Elder William BREWSTER was chosen their leader, and while he was in England petitioning the Virginia Company of London, for a land patent and passage to the New World, an order for his arrest went out at the instance of the English ambassador in Holland; however he escaped.
CHILDREN: Jonathan, Patience, Fear, an unnamed child who died young, Love, and Wrestling. DEATH: 10 April 1644 at Plymouth. This chest, on display at the Pilgrim Hall Museum in Plymouth, is said to have been brought on the Mayflower by William Brewster. William Brewster was born about 1566, the son of William Brewster. He was educated in both Greek and Latin and spent some time at Cambridge University, although he never completed a full degree. Yorks, England, son of William and Mary (Smythe)(Simkinson) Brewster. MARRIAGE: Mary (maiden name unknown), about 1592, probably in the vicinity of Scrooby, Nottinghamshire, England.
Summary. William Brewster is a leader at GE Healthcare, an $18 billion business unit of General Electric that provides transformational medical technologies and solutions to the global healthcare industry. For over 20 years, William has been tackling and solving the hardest problems facing complex organizations. 