A gab or gap is an Occitan boasting song of the High Middle Ages, when the troubadours were popular. It is often considered related to the tenso and partimen, two types of debate poem. Sometimes the gab is not considered a separate genre of poetry but simply a boast found within another genre, commonly the sirventes. The first gab was Ben vuelh, composed by William IX of Aquitaine. The sirventes De mots ricos no tem Peire Vidal by Uc de Lescura begins with a gab proclaiming the composer's superiority to eight of his contemporary troubadours, including the man of the title, Peire Vidal, who was himself a famous composer of gabs.
Gab /gab/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name. Gab's root is Hebrew, and the name Gab means man of God; my strength is God. Gab is an alternate spelling of Gabriel (Hebrew): from Hebrew gheber man. Gab is an uncommon given name for men but a somewhat popular last name for all people (#118954 out of 150436, Top 79%). (2000 U.S. Census). Below is a charted analysis of the usage of the boy name Gab and associated names. Gabriel (#24 last year) , Gay and Gabe are the popular variation forms of Gab (not in Top 1000) 
Listen to es gab: (If you have an HTML5 enabled browser, you can listen to the native audio below). Listen also to this conversation from our program as our hero. Michael buys a train ticket to Heidelberg: 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: If someone has the gift of gab, it simply means that they have a way with words. They are easy conversationalists, often very witty, and may well be simply talkative. But having the gift of gab means more than simply talking, it means talking well, in some way. According to OED, it is the gift of the gab: a talent for speaking, fluency of speech.. Basically a person with the Gift of Gab is someone who talks alot of BS....like a used call salesmen. Can persuade you into doing anything. Dont fall for them....Its always called Hidden Agenda.
Link to this slang definition. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. 
chitchat, chit-chat, chit chat, small talk, gab, gabfest, gossip, tittle-tattle, chin wag, chin-wag, chin wagging, chin-wagging, causerie (verb). We've found a total of 21 definitions for GAB : Filter by: Select category from list... ────────── All Community (1) NYSE Symbols (1) Educational (1) Law & Legal (1) Media (2) French (1) Spanish (1) Chat (1) Food (1) Funnies (1) Unclassified (8) Airport Codes (1) Countries (1) Sort by:PopularityAlphabeticallyCategory.
From the Hebrew name גַבְרִיאֵל (Gavri'el) meaning God is my strong man. Gabriel was one of the seven archangels in Hebrew tradition. He appears in both the Old Testament and the New Testament, where he serves as the announcer of the births of John to Zechariah and Jesus to Mary. 