Gaelic Meaning: The name Caelan is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Caelan is: Contemporary'Child. Irish Meaning: The name Caelan is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Caelan is: Powerful warrior. SoulUrge Number: 7. Expression Number: 9. People with this name have a deep inner need for quiet, and a desire to understand and analyze the world they live in, and to learn the deeper truths
Caelan is a Gaelic name meaning strong warrior. He is intelligent, sexy, funny and a very down to earth guy. If you have a problem, Caelan is the guy to see. He gives the best advice. That being said, he knows how to party and have a good time. A Gaelic name meaning Strong warrior. A strong man who can really shock you by his knowledge in many areas. Caelans can also be huge douchebags. Difficult to be around because he is an asshole. Also occasionally bipolar and will suck cock for money.
A Gaelic name meaning Strong warrior. A strong man who can really shock you by his knowledge in many areas. Loves the logical side of things but can be very sensitive. A great catch for any girl! A Gaelic name meaning Strong warrior. A strong man who can really shock you by his knowledge in many areas. Caelans can also be huge douchebags. Difficult to be around because he is an asshole. Also occasionally bipolar and will suck cock for money.
Caelan /cae-lan/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used as girls' name Caelan) is pronounced KAY-lan, SHAY-lin. It is of Irish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Caelan is slender. Anglicized form of Caol n (see Caolan). May also be related to Cailean. 
Caelan is largely used in Scottish. It is derived from Irish Gaelic and Old Greek origins. Caelan is a variant transcription of the name Cale (English). Caelan is also a Scottish variant transcription of the name Nicholas (English and French). Caelan is not often used as a baby boy name. It is not listed within the top 1000.
Baby names meanings search results: The name Caelan is a baby boy name. The name Caelan comes from the Gaelic origin. In Gaelic The meaning of the name Caelan is: Contemporary variant of Cailean 'Child.'. Similar Names: 1  Gaelan (Gaelic). 2  Kaelan (Gaelic). 3  Caelan (Irish)