1 Spacing: Plant oregano eight to 10 inches apart in your garden. 2  Oregano grows up to two feet tall and spans about 18 inches across. 3  If you are planting oregano in a container, be sure the pot is about 12 inches in diameter; oregano is a prolific grower.
Now that you know how to grow oregano, you can add this tasty herb to your herb garden and enjoy it! Oregano (Origanum vulgare) is an easy-care herb that can be grown indoors or out in the garden. As it is native to hot, arid regions, the oregano plant is perfect for growing in areas prone to drought.
Let’s look at how to grow oregano in your garden. How to Grow Oregano Plant Growing oregano is easy. Oregano can be grown from seeds, cuttings, or purchased container plants. Seeds should be started indoors prior to your region’s last expected frost. There’s no need to cover oregano herb seeds with soil.
1 Water thoroughly, only when the soil is dry to the touch. 2  Spacing: Plant oregano eight to 10 inches apart in your garden. 3  Oregano grows up to two feet tall and spans about 18 inches across. 4  If you are planting oregano in a container, be sure the pot is about 12 inches in diameter; oregano is a prolific grower.
Growing the Herb Oregano. Oregano needs only a moderately fertile soil to thrive in, though drainage and friability are important. Plant outdoors 12 inches apart after all danger of frost has passed. Plants are easily started from seed, stem cuttings, or mature root division.
Overview: Culinary oregano is a signature flavor of many Italian, Mexican and Spanish dishes. Most cooks are familiar with it in its dried form, but oregano is a hardy perennial plant that is easy to grow in the home garden. A handful of plants will provide you with enough oregano to use fresh in season and to dry for use throughout the winter.
Plant Height. Oregano usually grows to a height of 12 to 18 inches (30 - 45cm). Oregano plants should be spaced between 12 and 15 inches (30 and 38 cm) apart. Oregano will grow in a pH range between 6.0 (mildly acid) and 9.0 (strongly alkaline) with a preferred range between 6.0 and 8.0.