As on any perishable meat, fish or poultry, bacteria can be found on raw or undercooked chicken. Some bacteria associated with chicken are Salmonella Enteritidis, Staphylococcus aureus, Campylobacter jejuni, and Listeria monocytogenes. They multiply rapidly at temperatures between 40 째 F (4.4째 C) and 140 째 F (60째 C)--out of refrigeration and before thorough cooking occurs.
Salmonella. Salmonella bacteria are often found in raw or undercooked meat, raw eggs, milk, and other dairy products. The incubation period is usually between 12 and 72 hours. The symptoms usually last around four to seven days. Read more about salmonella infections. The bacteria are usually found on raw or undercooked meat (particularly poultry), unpasteurised milk and untreated water. The incubation period (the time between eating contaminated food and the start of symptoms) for food poisoning caused by campylobacter is usually between two and five days.
Bacteria in Raw Chicken & Poultry. 1  Salmonella Enteritidis may be found in the intestinal tracts of livestock, poultry, dogs, cats and other warm-blooded animals. 2  This strain is only one of about 2,000 kinds of Salmonella bacteria; it is often associated with poultry and shell eggs. 1
Campylobacter and Salmonella were found on 43% and 10.8% of the samples, respectively. In addition, almost half of the samples (49.7%) tested positive for at least one type of multidrug-resistant (MDR) bacteria (resistant to three or more antibiotics), Consumer Reports said. We have been focusing on Salmonella and Campylobacter in chicken for some time now, and I think the results of this study are actually encouraging, he said. Referring to a graph in the report, he noted that the prevalence of Salmonella in the samples ranged from 0 to 16%, depending on the brand or product category.
In the UK, campylobacter bacteria are the most common cause of food poisoning. The bacteria are usually found on raw or undercooked meat (particularly poultry), unpasteurised milk and untreated water. The incubation period (the time between eating contaminated food and the start of symptoms) for food poisoning caused by campylobacter is usually between two and five days.
In less than a decade, the proportion of antibiotic-resistant salmonella bacteria found on raw chicken has dramatically increased-from 48 percent in 2002 samples to 74 percent in 2011 samples. About 20 percent of the salmonella microbes detected on chicken samples collected in 2002 were resistant to at least three drugs. By 2011, that number had risen to 45 percent. The proportion of antibiotic-resistant germs among all salmonella found on raw turkey rose from 62 percent in 2002 to 78 percent in 2011.
Enterococcus species were the most common bacteria, found in 79.8% of samples, the report said. E coli (only a few strains of which are pathogenic) was found in 65.2%, Campylobacter in 43%, K pneumoniae in 13.6%, Salmonella in 10.8%, and S aureus in 9.2%. We have been focusing on Salmonella and Campylobacter in chicken for some time now, and I think the results of this study are actually encouraging, he said. Referring to a graph in the report, he noted that the prevalence of Salmonella in the samples ranged from 0 to 16%, depending on the brand or product category.
(Photo: Flickr/ snowpea&bokchoi). Consumers Reports says that of 316 raw chicken breasts purchased at retail stores nationwide, 97 percent were contaminated with potentially harmful bacterial. The most common bacteria detected on the meat was enterococcus, which was found on nearly 80 percent of chicken samples. 
1 The bacteria are found in foods made by hand and improperly refrigerated, such as chicken salad. 2  Campylobacter jejuni is one of the most common causes of diarrheal illness in humans. 1 Salmonella Enteritidis may be found in the intestinal tracts of livestock, poultry, dogs, cats and other warm-blooded animals. 2  This strain is only one of about 2,000 kinds of Salmonella bacteria; it is often associated with poultry and shell eggs.
1 This strain is only one of about 2,000 kinds of Salmonella bacteria; it is often associated with poultry and shell eggs. 2  Staphylococcus aureus can be carried on human hands, in nasal passages, or in throats. 3  The bacteria are found in foods made by hand and improperly refrigerated, such as chicken salad. 1 Salmonella Enteritidis may be found in the intestinal tracts of livestock, poultry, dogs, cats and other warm-blooded animals. 2 