Although the United Farm Workers continue to campaign for the rights of farm workers in America, their pioneering work in the 1960’s led to many benchmarks in the struggle for recognition for the farm workers of the United States. The Community Services Organization, a Latino civil rights group prominent in the 1950’s, was especially important in that it helped train Cesar Chavez and Dolores Huerta, the co-founders of the United Farm Workers, in the process of organizing workers and lobbying the government.
The beginning of the fight for women’s suffrage in the United States, which predates Jeannette Rankin ’s entry into Congress by nearly 70 years, grew out of a larger women’s rights movement. Stanton and Susan B. Anthony, a Massachusetts teacher, met in 1850 and forged a lifetime alliance as women’s rights activists. For much of the 1850s they agitated against the denial of basic economic freedoms to women.
Summary. The United Farm Workers Movement was a political movement in the United States that intended to provide greater rights for farmworkers throughout the country and was headed by several organizations and labor unions, most notably the United Farm Workers of America. The Community Services Organization, a Latino civil rights group prominent in the 1950’s, was especially important in that it helped train Cesar Chavez and Dolores Huerta, the co-founders of the United Farm Workers, in the process of organizing workers and lobbying the government.
The labor history of the United States describes the history of organized labor, as well as more general history of working people, in the United States. 
By Nadra Kareem Nittle. The Chicano Movement emerged during the Civil Rights era with three goals: restoral of land, rights for farm workers and education reforms. Prior to the 1960s, however, Latinos lacked influence in the national political arena. 
Initially named the National Farm Workers Association, the United Farm Workers of America was started by Cesar Chavez in 1962. The labor union soon began to campaign for greater rights of farm workers, especially in areas with large populations of migrant workers such as California. The Community Services Organization, a Latino civil rights group prominent in the 1950’s, was especially important in that it helped train Cesar Chavez and Dolores Huerta, the co-founders of the United Farm Workers, in the process of organizing workers and lobbying the government.
The AFL-CIO is especially concerned with global trade issues. In 2013 there were 14.5 million members in the U.S., compared with 17.7 million in 1983. In 2013, the percentage of workers belonging to a union in the United States (or total labor union density) was 11.3%, compared to 20.1% in 1983. From a global perspective, the density in 2010 was 11.4% in the U.S., 18.4% in Germany, 27.5% in Canada, and 70% in Finland. 
The civil rights movement was a mass popular movement to secure for African Americans equal access to and opportunities for the basic privileges and rights of U.S. citizenship. 
The United States civil rights movement was a United States political movement for equality before the law. Most events were between 1865 and 1980. Many times, it used civil resistance and nonviolent forms of resistance. In some situations it was accompanied, or followed, by civil unrest and armed rebellion. The struggle for civil rights and for the end of discrimination in the United States started before the nation began and continues today. The American Civil War grew out of concerns for voting rights, economic exploitation by Great Britain, and religious freedom.
Continued Challenges. But achieving the right to vote, while ending one phase of the women’s rights movement, set the stage for the equally arduous process of securing women a measure of power in local and national political office. Stanton and Susan B. Anthony, a Massachusetts teacher, met in 1850 and forged a lifetime alliance as women’s rights activists. For much of the 1850s they agitated against the denial of basic economic freedoms to women.