The B vitamins help your body obtain energy from food. Vitamins are separated into two categories based on how they are absorbed and whether or not they are stored in your body. Water-soluble vitamins are those that dissolve in water upon entering the body. Because of this, your body cannot store excess amounts of water-soluble vitamins for later use. There are a total of nine water-soluble vitamins: the B vitamins -- folate, thiamine, riboflavin, niacin, pantothenic acid, biotin, vitamin B6 and vitamin B12 -- and vitamin C. 
Getting too many fat-or water-soluble nutrients, either from the food you eat or from supplements, can be dangerous. Vitamin and mineral supplements are serious business, and taking more than you need -- unless you are under the care of your doctor -- may be bad for your health. Fat-soluble vitamins reside in your body's fatty tissue and liver and are used as needed by your body. By contrast, water-soluble vitamins dissolve in water and generally are not stored in
Doctor's Answer: Vitamins are classified as either fat soluble (vitamins A, D, E and K) or water soluble (vitamins B and C). This difference between the two groups is very important. It determines how each vitamin acts within the body. The fat soluble vitamins are soluble in lipids (fats). In sum, to respond to your questions:  1 The difference (if any) between vitamins that are water soluble and those that are not -- There is a big difference between the water soluble vitamins and the fat soluble vitamins and this is absolutely a critical distinction.  2 Specifically Vitamin E -- Vitamin E is a fat soluble vitamin
Sources and Physiological Functions. Folate, vitamins B6, and B12 belong to the group of water-soluble B vitamins that occur naturally in food. Leafy green vegetables (such as spinach and turnip greens), fruits (such as citrus fruits and juices), and dried beans and peas are all natural sources of folate. 
Fat and Water Soluble Vitamins Explained. Water soluble vitamins and fat soluble vitamins are nutrients your body needs in your diet for you to stay healthy. For optimal health, it is important to get the vitamins and minerals your body needs--either through a balanced, nutritious diet, health supplements, or both. Water soluble vitamins, which are highly soluble, require daily replenishment in your body. Fat soluble vitamins, which are also essential for your health and stored in your liver, do not need to be replaced every day.
The water-soluble vitamins, excluding vitamin C, popularly are termed the B-complex vitamins. There are eight of them, namely; B1 (thiamine), B2 (riboflavin), B6 (pyridoxine), niacin (nicotinic acid), B12, folic acid, pantothenic acid, and biotin. Remember that water-soluble vitamins, the B-complex group and vitamin C, dissolve in water, are not stored and they are eliminated in urine. We need a continuous supply of them in our diets to ensure proper health and nutrition. A good multivitamin is the foundation of health and nutritio
water-soluble vitamins, n.pl any of a variety of substances essential to human health and function that dissolve in water, such as vitamin C and vitamin B complex. Assist important enzyme activity such as energy production from fats and carbohydrates. 