Preheat oven to 275°F. Remove all packaging materials and place ham face down directly into baking dish or roasting pan. (Place whole ham on its side.) Cover tightly with lid, foil or place in cooking bag and heat at 275°F for approximately 12-15 minutes per pound. Glazing Ham. Remove ham from oven 10 minutes before end of heating time recommended above. Open prepared glaze packet (see tips below) and brush half of the contents on surface of the ham. If ham was placed in cooking bag, carefully cut bag open and pull away from ham, then apply glaze.
1 Place the ham in a large turkey roasting oven bag and place in a baking dish. 2  Pour cola over ham, remove as much air as possible and seal bag. 3  Prick a few holes in bag to let steam escape and bake for 4 to 5 hours. 4  Pour off excess juice and slice. 1 Remove any visible excess fat from ham. 2  Place the ham in a large turkey roasting oven bag and place in a baking dish. 3  Pour cola over ham, remove as much air as possible and seal bag. 4
How to cook or heat a spiral sliced ham. For a cooked ham, the time in a 350° oven is 10 minutes per pound of weight. For an uncooked ham, double that to 20 minutes per pound. 
1 Increase oven temperature to 350° Open and pull back the oven bag. 2  Brush the ham with your glaze, return to oven for 10 minutes. 3  Remove from oven brush with glaze again and allow to rest, loosely tented with foil, for 15 minutes. 1 Pre-heat oven to 300° Place oven rack in the lowest position. 2  Place the cooking bag in a large roasting pan. 3  Remove all packaging from the ham, including the plastic disc covering the bone and place ham face down in the cooking bag and pour the ginger ale over the top. 4  Seal bag with the tie provided with the bag.
Instructions. Preheat oven to 325 degrees Fahrenheit. Remove ham from packaging materials. Insert ham into cooking bag. Place ham face down onto roasting pan or baking dish. Warm ham in oven for 10 to 12 minutes per pound. Remove ham from oven when heated throughout. Take ham out of cooking bag and let it rest on counter for 10 minutes. Slice ham and serve. 
1 Place the ham in an oven preheated to 325°F for 20 to 25 minutes per pound or until internal temperature reaches 155°F on a meat thermometer. 2  Be sure the cooking bag is not touching the sides or top of the oven, otherwise the bag might melt. 3  Remove the ham from the oven and discard the bag and drippings. 
1 Place the bag in a large cake pan or a roasting pan. 2  Open the bag and put the ham in it, cut side down. 3  Set aside. 4  In a small sauce pan mix the chicken broth, honey glaze mix, mustard and orange juice over medium heat until the glaze mix and orange juice concentrate are dissolved. 5  Pour it over the ham. 1 Open the bag and put the ham in it, cut side down. 2  Set aside. 3  In a small sauce pan mix the chicken broth, honey glaze mix, mustard and orange juice over medium heat until the glaze mix and orange juice concentrate are dissolved. 4  Pour it over the ham. 5  With a tie that came with the bag, tightly seal the bag.
1 If you want to glaze the ham, place on a broiler pan and cover with glaze; broil 10 from the heat for 10-15 minutes, watching carefully, until glaze is cooked. 2  Oven Method. 3  The goal is to reheat the ham without drying it out. 4  The best way to do this is to place the ham on a rack in a roasting pan. 1 Spiral Sliced Hams. 2  These hams are delicious cold, but if you want to reheat them, the instructions are on the package. 3  Place the ham, cut-side-down, on heavy-duty aluminum foil and wrap the ham thoroughly. 4  Or use an oven roasting bag; follow instructions on the bag for preparation.
1 Cover and cook on low for 5-8 hours, until ham is thoroughly heated. 2  If you want to glaze the ham, place on a broiler pan and cover with glaze; broil 10 from the heat for 10-15 minutes, watching carefully, until glaze is cooked. 3  Oven Method. 1 Spiral Sliced Hams. 2  These hams are delicious cold, but if you want to reheat them, the instructions are on the package. 3  Place the ham, cut-side-down, on heavy-duty aluminum foil and wrap the ham thoroughly. 4  Or use an oven roasting bag; follow instructions on the bag for preparation.