The type of low-dose CT scan that is recommended for lung cancer screening is a newer form of CT scan known as a low-dose spiral or helical CT scan. The low-dose spiral CT scan continuously rotates in a spiral motion and takes several 3-dimensional X-rays of the lungs.
The exam for CT lung cancer screening is a low-dose CT exam, with a radiation dose of approximately 1.5 mSv (millisieverts), equivalent to approximately half of the naturally occurring background radiation that a person receives for one year at sea level. The low-dose CT exam does not require intravenous contrast.
Screening means testing for a disease when there are no symptoms or history of that disease. Doctors recommend a screening test to find a disease early, when treatment may work better. The only recommended screening test for lung cancer is low-dose computed tomography (also called a low-dose CT scan, or LDCT).
Summary of Recommendation and Evidence. The USPSTF recommends annual screening for lung cancer with low-dose computed tomography (LDCT) in adults aged 55 to 80 years who have a 30 pack-year smoking history and currently smoke or have quit within the past 15 years.
People at high risk for lung cancer who benefit from annual screening with low-dose CT according to new guidelines published by the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force are between 55* and 80 years old, currently smoke or quit in the last 15 years, and smoked at least an estimated. Mike Dudley: CT Screening Patient.
The Lung Cancer Screening is a low-dose CT scan (computed tomography) which is a type of imaging. The scan covers the entire chest and provides a more detailed look than a standard chest X-ray. The exam takes about 15 minutes in total, with the actual scan lasting only 5 to 10 seconds.
The low dose CT lung screening exam is for patients 55-80* who have smoked at least one pack of cigarettes a day for 30 years or at least two packs of cigarettes a day for 15 years. Patients will need a script from their healthcare provider indicating LOW DOSE CT LUNG SCREENING.