Telecommunication occurs when the exchange of information between two or more entities (communication) includes the use of technology. Communication technology uses channels to transmit information (as electrical signals), either over a physical medium (such as signal cables), or in the form of electromagnetic waves.
Telecommunications is a general term for a vast array of technologies that send information over distances. Mobile phones, land lines, satellite phones and voice over Internet protocol (VoIP) are all telephony technologies -- just one field of telecommunications.
Telecommunications. Telecommunications, or telecom, is the transmission of signals over long distances. It began with the invention of the telegraph in 1837, followed by the telephone in 1876. Radio broadcasts began the late 1800s and the first television broadcasts started in the early 1900s.
The word is often used in its plural form, telecommunications, because it involves many different technologies. Early means of communicating over a distance included visual signals, such as beacons, smoke signals, semaphore telegraphs, signal flags, and optical heliographs.
Technically, telecommunications encompasses any communication over a distance, be it via telephone, television, radio, wireless network, computer network, telemetry, or other means-but traditionally, the term referred to telephone service.
Telecommunications, also called telecommunication, is the exchange of information over significant distances by electronic means. A complete, single telecommunications circuit consists of two stations, each equipped with a transmitter and a receiver.
Definition of Telecommunication. The definition of telecommunications is rather broad. Telecommunication involves the transmission of information over long distances, often, but not always, through using electronic aids. Generally, any assisted communication in which there is a sender and a receiver is considered t
Telecommunications, or telecom, is the transmission of signals over long distances. It began with the invention of the telegraph in 1837, followed by the telephone in 1876. Radio broadcasts began the late 1800s and the first television broadcasts started in the early 1900s.