Best Answer: in warm damp soil corn will germinate in 5 days or less...if the seed dries, or is cool, it can take more than twice that long... Source(s): 40 years experience. rjs · 6 years ago. Thumbs up. 
Soil temperature is one of the best predictors of how long it will take corn to break the ground's surface. Soil temperature is usually 5 to 10 degrees cooler than air temperature, and soil temperature increases slower than air temperature in spring. Gardeners usually plant corn (Zea mays) 10 days to two weeks after the last spring frost, when the soil temperature begins to warm. If corn is planted when the soil temperature is 60 F, then corn sprouts typically break the soil surface in 10 days to two weeks. If you planted sweet corn and two weeks passed without sight of the first green shoot, then several factors may have caused the delay
Corn is a warm-season annual that is best planted after the soil temperature reaches 60°F, usually two or three weeks after the last frost in spring. Corn planted in cold, wet soil is unlikely to germinate. Corn grows best in air temperatures from 60° to 95°F. Corn can take from 60 to 100 days to reach harvest depending upon variety and the amount of heat during the growing season. Description. Corn is a tender annual and a member of the grass family that can grow from 4 to12 feet tall.
Germinating longer-season corn helps ensure a good harvest. If your heart’s desire is to grow your own popcorn or make flavor-packed cornmeal from your harvest, germinating corn seeds is for you. While sweet corn can mature in as little as 70 days, longer-season flour and popcorns take up to 120 days to reach maturity. 
You might be wondering, “how long does it take for corn to grow?” There are many different varieties of corn and a couple of different methods for corn planting, so you can plant 60-day, 70-day or 90-day corn. When most people think about how to grow corn, they are thinking in terms of their own private stash of corn. Otherwise, your crop will be sparse. If you are thinking about how to grow corn from seed, there are only a few rules to follow. First, make sure you make your rows 24-30 inches apart from each other. Plant the corn one to two inches deep in the soil about nine to twelve inches apart from each other in the row.
Corn seed germinates in 10 to 14 days at 75°F, but the rate of germination may reach only 75 percent. Start corn indoors 2 to 3 weeks before the last frost in spring for transplanting 2 to 3 weeks after the last frost. If your season is long enough, plant successive crops every two to three weeks. Corn grows best in air temperatures from 60° to 95°F. Corn can take from 60 to 100 days to reach harvest depending upon variety and the amount of heat during the growing season. Description. Corn is a tender annual and a member of the grass family that can grow from 4 to12 feet tall.
Best Answer: A few days, under warm and moist conditions. If the soil is cool-it can take a few weeks. Last year, I tried sowing corn in three waves, to stagger the harvest. I planted the first batch two weeks before I normally do. Two weeks later, I planted the second batch, at the normal time for my area. It kind of depends on the variety. I have two varieties packets: Sweet Corn Early Golden Batam takes 5-10 days. The other variety is a flour corn, Anasazi says 4-12 days at a soil temp. of 70 to 85 degrees F.
Fresh sweet corn can be worth the wait. Gardeners usually plant corn (Zea mays) 10 days to two weeks after the last spring frost, when the soil temperature begins to warm. If corn is planted when the soil temperature is 60 F, then corn sprouts typically break the soil surface in 10 days to two weeks. If you planted sweet corn and two weeks passed without sight of the first green shoot, then several factors may have caused the delay