Genetically modified (GM) foods are foods derived from organisms whose genetic material (DNA) has been modified in a way that does not occur naturally, e.g. through the introduction of a gene from a different organism. 
Definition. Meat and edible plants modified through genetic engineering. Although humans have genetically modified animal and plants since the beginning of civilization, they did it through selective breeding possible only within the same species through natural reproduction over decades or centuries. Nearby Terms. 1  generic market. 2  generic name. 3  generic need. 4  generic product. 5  generic securit... 6  generic strateg... 7  genetic enginee... 8  genetic profili... 9  genetically mod... 10  gentlemen's agr... 11  gentrification. 12  genuine progres... 13  geocentric mult... 14  geodemography. 15  geographic info... 16  geographic mono... 17  geographic orga...
A genetically modified organism (GMO), also known as a transgenic organism, is any organism whose genetic material has been altered using genetic engineering techniques (i.e. genetically engineered organism). Concerns include contamination of the non-genetically modified food supply, effects of GMOs on the environment and nature, the rigor of the regulatory process, and consolidation of control of the food supply in companies that make and sell GMOs.
The genetically modified foods controversy is a dispute over the use of food and other goods derived from genetically modified crops and other uses of genetic engineering in food production. There is general scientific agreement that food on the market from genetically modified crops is not inherently riskier to human health than conventional food. No reports of ill effects have been documented in the human population from GM food.
Definition. Genetically engineered foods have had foreign genes (genes from other plants or animals) inserted into their genetic codes. Genetic engineering can be done with plants, animals, or bacteria and other microorganisms. We have bred plants and animals for thousands of years to produce the desired traits
The discovery of enzymes and their role in fermentation and digestion of foods led to the use of genetically modified microbes to make enzymes such as the protease chymosin for cheese production. Cheese had typically been made using the enzyme complex rennet that had extracted from cows' stomach lining. There is general scientific agreement that food on the market from genetically modified crops is not inherently riskier to human health than conventional food. No reports of ill effects have been documented in the human population from GM food.
An organism whose genetic characteristics have been altered by the insertion of a modified gene or a gene from another organism using the techniques of genetic engineering. 
Corn used for food has been genetically modified to tolerate various herbicides and to express a protein from Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) that kills certain insects. About 90% of the corn grown in the U.S. was genetically modified in 2010. There is general scientific agreement that food on the market from genetically modified crops is not inherently riskier to human health than conventional food. No reports of ill effects have been documented in the human population from GM food.
ge路net路i路cal路ly modified organism. n. Abbr. GMO. An organism whose genetic characteristics have been altered by the insertion of a modified gene or a gene from another organism using the techniques of genetic engineering. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter. 