sidebarA. Genetic engineering (GE) is the modification of an organism’s genetic composition by artificial means, often involving the transfer of specific traits, or genes, from one organism into a plant or animal of an entirely different species. 
While genetic engineering manually moves genes from one organism to another, traditional breeding moves genes through mating, or crossing, the organisms in hopes of obtaining offspring with the desired combination of traits. genetic engineering. This characteristic is critical to the success of genetic engineering. When a gene for a desirable trait is taken from one organism and inserted into another, it gives the recipient organism the ability to express that same trait.
Genetic engineering is an important tool for natural scientists. Genes and other genetic information from a wide range of organisms are transformed into bacteria for storage and modification, creating genetically modified bacteria in the process. Genetic engineering alters the genetic make-up of an organism using techniques that remove heritable material or that introduce DNA prepared outside the organism either directly into the host or into a cell that is then fused or hybridized with the host.
An organism may have thousands of genes. The set of all genes in an organism is called a genome. A genome can be compared to a cookbook of recipes that makes that organism what it is. Every cell of every living organism has a cookbook. This characteristic is critical to the success of genetic engineering. When a gene for a desirable trait is taken from one organism and inserted into another, it gives the recipient organism the ability to express that same trait.
Genetic engineering is a process in which recombinant DNA (rDNA) technology is used to introduce desirable traits into organisms. A genetically engineered (GE) animal is one that contains a recombinant DNA (rDNA) construct producing a new trait. 
Genetic Modification. It can be argued that any intervention by humans is a genetic modification of a plant or animal, and some modifications occur by the process of mutation and selection. Humans have been actively genetically modifying plants and animals for thousands of years through selective cross-breeding and domestication. 
Genetic engineering, also known as biotechnology, is the process of manually adding new DNA to an organism. The goal of genetic engineering is to add one or more new traits that are not already found in that organism. Recombinant DNA. Recombinant DNA technology is the modification of the sequences of the DNA bases in order to change the observable form and function of an organism. Recombinant DNA is a form of artificial DNA which is created by combining two or more sequences of DNA that would not normally occur together.
A GMO (genetically modified organism) is the result of a laboratory process where genes from the DNA of one species are extracted and artificially forced into the genes of an unrelated plant or animal. The foreign genes may come from bacteria, viruses, insects, animals or even humans. Because this involves the transfer of genes, GMOs are also known as “transgenic” organisms. This process may be called either Genetic Engineering (GE) or Genetic Modification (GM); they are one and the same.
The following explains some of the techniques used to genetically modify plants. For a more basic introduction to DNA, genes and GM you can look at wikipedia. Genetic modification involves the introduction into an organism of new genes, usually from an unrelated organism, using artificial laboratory techniques. There are two main methods that are used to genetically modify plants: 1  Using the bacterium, Agrobacterium tumifaciens, as a vector for the DNA. 2  Agrobacterium has the ability to infect plants and insert DNA into a plant's genome. 3  It causes crown gall tumours in natural infections.