An anticyclone (that is, opposite to a cyclone) is a weather phenomenon defined by the United States National Weather Service 's glossary as a large-scale circulation of winds around a central region of high atmospheric pressure, clockwise in the Northern Hemisphere, counterclockwise in the Southern Hemisphere. Anticyclones aloft can form within warm core lows such as tropical cyclones, due to descending cool air from the backside of upper troughs such as polar highs, or from large scale sinking such as the subtropical ridge.
A cyclone is a storm or system of winds that rotates around a center of low atmospheric pressure. An anticyclone is a system of winds that rotates around a center of high atmospheric pressure. Distinctive weather patterns tend to be associated with both cyclones and anticyclones. Cyclones (commonly known as lows) generally are indicators of rain, clouds, and other forms of bad weather. 
An anti-cyclone -- also known as a high pressure area -- is a large atmospheric circulation system with the wind flowing clockwise around it in the Northern Hemisphere, and counter-clockwise in the Southern Hemisphere. Anticyclones form from air masses cooling more than their surroundings, which causes the air to contract slightly making the air more dense. Since dense air weighs more, the weight of the atmosphere overlying a locatiion increases, causing increased surface air pressure.
2.1 Anticyclones (high pressure). Anticyclones tutorial. Areas of sinking air which result in high pressure are called anticyclones (the opposite to an anticyclone is the cyclone or depression, which is covered next). High pressure systems have small pressure gradients (ie the air pressure doesn't change rapidly). This means that the winds are gentle. 
The air mass cooling that results in an anticyclone forming can be caused by either conduction as the air flows over a relatively cool ocean surface, or through the loss of infrared radiation over land during the fall, winter, or spring when little sunlight is available to warm the air mass. Anticyclones form from air masses cooling more than their surroundings, which causes the air to contract slightly making the air more dense. Since dense air weighs more, the weight of the atmosphere overlying a locatiion increases, causing increased surface air pressure.
In the northern hemisphere, the winds in an anticyclone move in a clockwise direction around the center, and in the southern hemisphere, in a counterclockwise direction, forming a gigantic whirlwind. The diameter of anticyclones is on the order of thousands of km. 
anticyclone - (meteorology) winds spiraling outward from a high pressure center; circling clockwise in the northern hemisphere and counterclockwise in the southern. Noun. 1. anticyclone - (meteorology) winds spiraling outward from a high pressure center; circling clockwise in the northern hemisphere and counterclockwise in the southern. meteorology-the earth science dealing with phenomena of the atmosphere (especially weather).
Anticyclone. An anticyclone is a region of high atmospheric pressure relative to the surrounding air, generally thousands of kilometres in diameter and also known as a high or high-pressure system. Anticyclones appear on weather charts as a series of concentric, widely spaced isobars of 1000 mbs and above. 
Anticyclones. Anticyclones are the opposite of depressions [depression: In meteorological terms, a depression is an area of low air pressure. ] - they are an area of high atmospheric pressure where the air is sinking. 1  As the air is sinking, not rising, no clouds or rain are formed. 
An anticyclone system has characteristics opposite to that of a cyclone. That is, an anticyclone's central air pressure is higher than that of its surroundings, and the airflow is counterclockwise in the Southern Hemisphere and clockwise in the Northern Hemisphere. 