The Greek diminutives for Spirydon is, Pipi (πίπης) and Pipeto (πιπέτο). Špiro is also a male Montenegrin name. In Germany, the surname Spiro originated as a corruption of Speyer, the name of a town in the Rhineland. It is one of a number of Jewish surnames that originated this way, along with the better-known Shapiro. This page or section lists people with the surname Spiro. If an internal link intending to refer to a specific person led you to this page, you may wish to change that link by adding the person's given name (s) to the link.
Greek: Like a breath of fresh air. First name variations: Speero, Spero, Spiridon, Spiro, Spyridon, Spyros, Spiridon. Last name origin & meaning: Greek: from the personal name Spiros or a patronymic derived from it. 
As a Greek name, Spiro may also be spelled Spyro. It comes from the Greek Spiros/Spyros (Greek: σπύρος), with a nominative final s that is usually dropped when Anglicised. This page or section lists people with the surname Spiro. If an internal link intending to refer to a specific person led you to this page, you may wish to change that link by adding the person's given name (s) to the link.
[ syll. (s)pi-ros, sp-ir-os ] The baby boy name Spiros is pronounced SP IH RowZ †. Spiros' origin is Latin, and its use, Greek. Spiros is a contracted form of Spyridon (Greek and Russian). Spiros is not commonly used as a baby boy name. † approx English pronunciation for Spiros: S as in see (S.IY) ; P as in pea (P.IY) ; IH as in it (IH.T) ; R as in race (R.EY.S) ; OW as in oak (OW.K) ; Z as in zoo (Z.UW).
[ 2 syll. (s)pi-ro, sp-iro ] The baby boy name Spiro is pronounced SP IY-Row †. Spiro's language of origin is Latin, and it is predominantly used in English, Greek, and Slavic. Spiro is a shortening of the Greek and Russian Spyridon. Spiro is a seldom used baby name for boys. It is not in the top 1000 names. Baby names that sound like Spiro include Sabear, Sabeer (Arabic), Sabeir, Sabir (Arabic), Sabri (Arabic), Sabrie, Saburow, Safar, Saffronn, Saffronne, Safir, Safronn, Safronne, Safyre, Sapfyr, Saphir, Sauveur, Savear, Saveare, and Saveere.
In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 9436 in baby name popularity for boys with 8 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Spiros Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Spiros has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Spiros to other names. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own. As you see it can go both ways, so just keep this point in mind as you examine the different possibilities. Please refer to our Naming Tips page for more items to keep in mind when determining your baby's name.
Spiros /spi-ros/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Greek and Latin origin, and the name Spiros means basket; spirit. Spiros is a variant transcription of Spiridon (Greek, Latin): from Greek spyridion. Spiros is an uncommon first name for men but a very popular surname for both adults and children (#69636 out of 150436, Top 46%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Spiros for boys. Spiros has yet to be ranked in the Top 1000 thus far.
Last year this name was ranked as one of the top 1000 most popular names within its gender. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own. As you see it can go both ways, so just keep this point in mind as you examine the different possibilities. Please refer to our Naming Tips page for more items to keep in mind when determining your baby's name.
Spiro is a surname with a variety of origins, as well as a given name among Greek-speaking populations, Albanians, Montenegrins, and the Christians of Lebanon. This page or section lists people with the surname Spiro. If an internal link intending to refer to a specific person led you to this page, you may wish to change that link by adding the person's given name (s) to the link.