Jamaica is a country with a small population which is located in the continent/region of North America. Countries near Jamaica include Cayman Islands, Cuba, Haiti and Turks and Caicos Islands. Its biggest cities and towns include Kingston, Spanish Town, Portmore and Montego Bay. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Jamaica is an island in the Caribbean Sea, so it not located on a continent. Geologically, it is located on the Caribbean Plate, which is also not considered a continental plate (although part of Central America is located on this tectonic plate).
Jamaica is an island nation in the Caribbean, and is therefore not physically a part of any continent. However, the country is politically a part of North America. 1 An Overview of Jamaica The island nation of Jamaica is located in the central area of the Caribbean Sea. 2  Its geographic map coordinates are: 18 15 N, 77 30 W. Jamaica lies 90 miles due south of Cub….
Jamaica is part of North America. Jamaica is part of the continent of North America. North America includes Canada, the United States, Mexico, and the islands of the Caribbean Sea. By some definitions, it also includes the countries of Central America. Jamaica is an island nation in the Caribbean, and is therefore not physically a part of any continent.
Jamaica is located fairly close to Central America. Jamaica measures about 234 kilometers (145 mi) in length and as much as 80 kilometers (50 mi) in width, amounting to 11,100 square kilometers (4,300 sq mi). Jamaica is the third largest island in the Caribbean. The island is home to the Blue Mountains inland and a coastal plains around the island's perimeter.
Jamaica's located in the Atlantic ocean, south of Cuba in the  CARIBBEAN SEA.   Jamaica is located in the Caribbean Sea, south of Cuba, and West of  Haiti and the Domini … can Republic, and North of South America. It is  part of the Caribbean islands. + 110 others found this useful. 1 An Overview of Jamaica The island nation of Jamaica is located in the central area of the Caribbean Sea. 2  Its geographic map coordinates are: 18 15 N, 77 30 W. Jamaica lies 90 miles due south of Cub….
Located in the continent of the Caribbean, Jamaica covers 10,831 square kilometers of land and 160 square kilometers of water, making it the 170th largest nation in the world with a total area of 10,991 square kilometers. Jamaica became an independent state in 1962, after gaining its sovereignty from The United Kingdom. Location of Kingston on a map. Kingston is the capital city of Jamaica. It has a population of 937,700, and is located on a latitue of 18 and longitude of -76.79. Kingston is also the political center of Jamaica, which is considered a Constitutional Monarchy, and home to its Ceremonial head of state.
Jamaica is an island country located in the Caribbean Sea. It is part of the Greater Antilles a group of islands. Cuba is located about 145 kms north of the country and about 190 kms east the Hispaniola, the island constituting of the nation-states Haiti and the Dominican Republic located. Kingston city is the capital and largest city of the country.
Jamaica is an island nation of the Greater Antillies, located in the northwestern Caribbean Sea, about 145 kilometers (90 miles) south of Cuba and 191 kilometers (119 miles) west of the island of Hispaniola, where Haiti and the Dominican Republic are located. Jamaica measures about 234 kilometers (145 mi) in length and as much as 80 kilometers (50 mi) in width, amounting to 11,100 square kilometers (4,300 sq mi). Jamaica is the third largest island in the Caribbean. The island is home to the Blue Mountains inland and a coastal plains around the island's perimeter.