So, in the end, game show winners get some of the money that TV advertisers pay to the networks, who pay the show producers, who then pay the game show winners. Just in the same way that the actors, and crew of a show get paid. Game shows, like other programs, have costs to produce the programs-they have to pay for sets, cameras, talent (the hosts), and also prizes to contestants.
(Valerie Macon/Getty Images). Oh, happy day! You're a contestant on a popular game show - The Price Is Right, let's say. You spin the wheel, you make the winning bid, and suddenly-ka-ching! - you've won the Lexus or the dishwasher or the lifetime supply of nail clippers.
1 If you can use most of the prizes the show offers, such as a new car or trip, you may be content to appear on a game show that features material prizes. 2  If not, you should probably try out for a show where cash is the main prize. 3  In the United States, game show contestants must pay taxes on any prizes they win. 2. Meet the eligibility requirements. All game shows have certain eligibility requirements for their contestants. Generally, you must be at least 18 years of age, except for those shows that use child or teenage contestants, and you are allowed to appear on no more than 1 game show per year.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: You don't always win the money amount on the front of your lectern when you are on a game show. As someone else said, 2nd place earns $2000 and 3rd place earns $1000 in Jeopardy! In any case, the prize money is paid out from the ad revenue that the show receives from sponsors. I think in this case Who Wants to be a Millionaire or Deal or No Deal is the best example of how shows can be successful while still paying the prize money. I feel this way because these shows have a potential, however small it may be, to pay out 1 million dollars to every contestant on the show. Here is the reality. Regardless of the show whether it be a game show or a drama, a network will receive money from commercial advertising based on the viewership. With this in mind a game show costs very little to actually air compared to a full production drama series, that's where the prize money comes from
Win the prize, pay the tax piper. Most of us know if we win a cash prize, there are taxes to pay. Big prizes mean big taxes. But many game show contestants don't realize when they win merchandise, there's also tax to pay, and you might not get out the door with your prize until some of that tax is paid. When the prize is merchandise or travel – a washer/dryer, a new car, a cruise – it's a different ball game. 
Best Answer: Your question offers a way to easily see the insight of how television works as a business. Game shows, like other programs, have costs to produce the programs-they have to pay for sets, cameras, talent (the hosts), and also prizes to contestants.
Reality shows never reveal how much they pay, but sometimes contestants do. On Survivor, the show talks about the grand prize: $1 million. The host, Jeff Probst, talks about the first-runner up making a “$900,000 mistake,” which implies that the second place finisher gets $100,000. 