Under normal circumstances, loose skin will shrink as you drop the pounds but in cases of large weight loss it is harder to tighten skin. With a sensible diet and exercise plan, and realistic expectations, you can help your skin to adjust to your new body shape. Understanding Your Skin. If you pinch your skin, it immediately snaps back into place when you release your grip. Healthy skin is naturally elastic and will change shape to hold the form of the tissues beneath. However, any elastic material has its limits.
Why Skin Gets Loose After Weight Loss. Since it has to stretch as we move, grow, and--as in the case of weight loss--shrink, skin is an incredibly elastic living organ. Yes, that’s right, skin is not just one big piece of rubber that covers the entire body, but is instead an organ, and just like all the other organs in your body, it is comprised of cell
The faster you lose weight, the more loose skin you will have. If you are considered obese or morbidly obese, you may need to consider cosmetic surgery to have the excess skin removed. Your physician will be able to inform you of the available options, and recommend steps for your particular circumstances. You are better to lose the weight slowly to allow your body to adapt to the changes so you don't have so much loose skin. Unfortunately, losing so much weight so quickly loose skin is a side effect.
When people lose 50 - 100 pounds in a relatively short period of time, it's less likely that skin will be able to shrink along with body mass. On the other hand, when people lose a moderate amount of weight (less than 50 pounds) over the course of months, the skin has a better chance of keeping up. 
Use moisturizing lotions to help your loose skin keep its elasticity. Exercise may help a little by building up muscle to use take up the slack from excess skin, but it doesn't directly tighten skin. You may not be able to build up enough muscle to replace the fat volume lost. Understanding Your Skin. If you pinch your skin, it immediately snaps back into place when you release your grip. Healthy skin is naturally elastic and will change shape to hold the form of the tissues beneath. However, any elastic material has its limits.
But you need to lose the weight sensibly. You skin will have great elasticity right up until your early 30's. So make sure you're losing the weight healthily and your skin will shrink as you lose weight. Make sure you are getting lots of vitamins and minerals-fruit and vegies etc There are products out there that will help the elasticity of your skin-check with your pharmacy. Will my skin shrink back if i lose weight? im female, 5'5, 20 years old, i weigh 200 right now and i need to lose about 50-60 pounds. im comfortable in the 140's.
How to Tighten Loose Skin. As you lose weight and loose skin begins to appear, don't panic! Your skin will slowly return to a shape that fits your new body. But that process can take up to two years, so here are steps you can take to make your skin tighten faster: #1: Don't Lose Weight Too Quickly. 
Unfortunately your skin can't shrink back to its normal size so quickly when you lose so much. You are better to lose the weight slowly to allow your body to adapt to the changes so you don't have so much loose skin. Unfortunately, losing so much weight so quickly loose skin is a side effect.
Slower Weight Loss Is Better. The more time you skin has to adjust to changes in your body, the more likely it will do so. If you plan to lose weight, even a great deal of weight, a slow and steady rate of loss will give your skin more time to react and tighten up as the underlying fat is burned off. Understanding Your Skin. If you pinch your skin, it immediately snaps back into place when you release your grip. Healthy skin is naturally elastic and will change shape to hold the form of the tissues beneath. However, any elastic material has its limits.