First of all, know that preserved lemons will keep for quite a while in the fridge. They are preserved, after all. Kept refrigerated, these lemons will keep for about a year, so don't feel that you have to rush to use them up before they go bad. You eat the whole lemon, rind and all — though I'd recommend removing the seeds first.
Let ripen for 30 days. To use, rinse the lemons, as needed, under running water, removing and discarding the pulp, if desired — and there is no need to refrigerate after opening. Preserved lemons will keep up to a year, and the pickling juice can be used two or three times over the course of a year. Gently shake the jar each day to distribute the salt. * I adore these WECK jars for canning. 
Turn the jars every day. There should always be a layer of salt in the bottom of the jar, so add extra salt if needed. The mature lemons are yellowish brown. Once opened, keep in the fridge and re-cover with lemon juice or a layer of olive oil after each use. For the preserved lemons, scrub the lemons clean, then cut each lemon in half lengthways. Cut lengthways again, to divide each half lemon into three long, thin slices. Tightly pack the lemons into the sterilised jars, packing the salt around them generously as you build up the layers
For longer storage, process 1/4 or 1/2-pint jars of lemon curd in a boiling water bath for 15 minutes. Once processed, jars of lemon curd will keep in the refrigerator for 3 months until they are opened (after opening, they will only last 1 - 2 weeks). The surface of curd in sealed jars may darken slightly if kept longer than a month, but that is an esthetic concern, not a health hazard
Preserved lemons will keep up to a year, and the pickling juice can be used two or three times over the course of a year. * According to the late Michael Field, the best way to extract the maximum amount of juice from a lemon is to boil it in water for 2 or 3 minutes and allow it to cool before squeezing. 
Cover the lemons tightly, and set aside in a cool, dark place. A cupboard or food pantry is fine. Every two or three days, open the jar and compress the lemons to release more juices. If you have room to add another lemon, you can. Do this for the first week, or until the lemons are submerged in juice. The lemons will be pickled and ready to use in about four weeks to five weeks, once the rinds are very soft. Here's How: If you're using the small Moroccan doqq or boussera lemons, remove the stems, make an incision or two near the top of the lemon, but otherwise leave the lemons whole. If you're using another variety of lemon, remove the stems and cut off the tips.
You can help lemons keep fresh longer by storing them in your refrigerator drawer. If lemons were purchased in a plastic bag, remove them from the bag which could have trapped moisture which will cause the lemons to soften and spoil. Once lemons are prepared or cut, they should be stored in a tightly closed container to keep out moisture and other contaminants. Some benefits of proper food storage include eating healthier, cutting food costs and helping the environment by avoiding waste. 
Hi Thomas, once you have opened the jar it is best to keep them in the fridge to extend their life. They should last for 1 year opened ensuring that the lemons remain covered by the salt and juice the whole time. 
How to make preserved lemons. Fragrant, strongly flavoured preserved lemons are well worth the wait. You can use a tiny bit each time stirred through mashed potato to serve with fish, mixed into rice for prawn curry, or in a tagine for authentic Moroccan flavour. Equipment and preparation: You will need 2 x 500g/1lb 2oz sealable Kilner-type jars. For the preserved lemons, scrub the lemons clean, then cut each lemon in half lengthways. Cut lengthways again, to divide each half lemon into three long, thin slices. Tightly pack the lemons into the sterilised jars, packing the salt around them generously as you build up the laye