Tinikling (means tikling-like) is the official Philippine National Dance according to the Philippine Information Agency (PIA.gov.ph). It is the most popular Philippine folk dance abroad. The tinikling has been included in the folk dance curricula of many countries around the world. In fact, there is one tinikling-like dance in Mexico believed to have been brought there by a former Mexican missionary in the Philippines.
The beginnings of the tinikling dance have been passed down orally in the Filipino culture, specifically with two different stories. While being considered one of the oldest and most popular dances in the Philippines, the first tale was derived from the islands of Leyte in the Visayan Islands. There are many similarities between the steps of tinikling and rope jumping, and the only difference is the implement that is used to keep the rhythm, aka the usage of bamboo sticks rather than ropes. The following is a video of dancers performing tinikling in a formal setting.
The Tinikling is the National Dance of the Philippines. It is also the most famous of all Filipino folk dances. There are many different ways of doing the dance and each dance troupe can adapt the steps to meet their skill level. /     C-To finish the dance, do 5 basic tinikling steps. On  the 6th beat, do one tinikling step with a quarter turn;  on 7th and 8th beat, bow to the opposite pole  person, then the pole person beside you.
Tinikling is a traditional Philippine dance which originated during the Spanish colonial era. The dance involves two people beating, tapping, and sliding bamboo poles on the ground and against each other in coordination with one or more dancers who step over and in between the poles in a dance. History [edit]. The name tinikling is a reference to birds locally known as tikling, which can be any of a number of rail species; the term tinikling literally means tikling-like.. The dance originated in Leyte, an island in the Visayas in the central Philippines
Tinikling Ideas. Description of Activity. Tinikling is the most popular and best known dance of the Philippines, receiving acclaim as their national dance. The dance is similar to rope jumping, but instead of a spinning rope, two bamboo poles are hit against raised blocks on the floor and then together. Different stories of tinikling have been passed down through oral histories and folklore. One of the stories of it's origin may or may not be true. The story says that the dance started by the people who worked on the fields and paddies in the Philippines.
The Tinikling dance is one of the most popular and well-known of traditional Philippine dances. It is pre-Spanish and involves two people beating, tapping, and sliding bamboo … poles on the ground and against each other in coordination with one or more dancers who step over and in between the poles in a dance. A number of points or factors can be used to differentiate tinikling from singkil. One is the place of origin. Tinikling originated in central Philippines, while singkil is a … Muslim dance popular in southern Philippines. A second point of contrast is the type of dance.
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. Tinikling-This is one of the most popular and best known of the Philippine dances. The dance imitates the movement of the tikling birds as they walk between grass stems, run over tree branches, or dodge bamboo traps set by rice farmers. 
popular Philippine folk dance. Its appeal has spread worldwide, and it is generally included in the folk-dance curricula in the schools of many ... Found on http://www.britannica.com/eb/a-z/t/53. The tinikling dance is one of the most popular and well-known of traditional Philippine dances. The tinikling is a pre-Spanish dance from the Philippines that involves two people beating, tapping, and sliding bamboo poles on the ground and against each other in coordination with one or more dancers who step over and in between the poles in a dance... Found on http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tinikling.