Using italics to name the genus and species is a standard practice in biological nomenclature. It serves to set biological names apart from other parts of a text. Ex. Homo sapiens Also, one must always capitalize the genus and all other taxa (kingdom, phylum, etc.) except for species, which is always lowercase. 
The scientific name of a species is formed by the combination of two terms The first name (capitalized) is the genus of the organism, the second (not capitalized) is its species. How to Write the Scientific Name of a plant: There are precise convention to follow when writing a scientific name. Genus Name. The genus name is written first. The genus name is always underlined or italicized. The first letter of the genus name is always capitalized. Example: Astrophytum or Astrophytum. Specific name. 1  The specific epithet is written second. 2  The specific epithet
1. The name has two parts; first, the genus name and then the species or trivial name. If my email comes through correctly, all of the scientific names are in italics. In a scientific name, the genus is capitalized, the specific or trivial name is non capitalized, and the whole name is underlined or italicized. 2. The genus name is a noun, and the species or trivial name is usually an adjective (a describing word).
The Latin names for individual species are written using a system termed binomial nomenclature that was developed originally by Linnaeus. Quite literally, each species is identified by a combination of two names: its genus name and its specific epithet. A familiar example is that of human beings, Homo sapiens. 
Scientific names come in two parts (thus, binomial), the first part the genus (plural, genera), the second part the species (plural, species). The genus names is always capitalized, and the species name is never capitalized (even if it is a proper noun!). The genus and species names are always italicized or underlined. Recent changes in the nomenclatural code also requires family names to be italicized, but this practice is not universally adopted (they should always be capitalized, however). Following the species name, one sometimes finds additional words. The first time that the organism is named in a paper the full genus and species must be written out; after that, the first letter of the genus name, followed by the full species name may be used. Common names should be capitalized, but never italicized.
Species hypothesized to have the same ancestors are placed in one genus, based on similarities. The similarity of species is judged based on comparison of physical attributes, and where available, their DNA sequences. All species are given a two-part name, a binomial name, or just binomial. 
Genus and species names are always italicized when printed; the names of other taxa (families, etc.) are not. When a species (or several species of the same genus) is mentioned repeatedly, the genus may be abbreviated after its first mention, as in Q. alba. Binomial Nomenclature. The present system of binomial nomenclature identifies each species by a scientific name of two words, Latin in form and usually derived from Greek or Latin roots. The first name (capitalized) is the genus of the organism, the second (not capitalized) is its species
Science writing and editing: How to write scientific names. The Latin scientific name of a species, be it plant, animal, bacterium, fungus, etc., is a two-part name consisting of the genus name first (by the way: one genus, two genera) and the species name second. For example, the domestic cat is known as Felis catus. Names of taxonomic levels below the species level. 1  The subspecies name is italicized. 2  In zoology, the subspecies is not indicated by any label; it just follows the species name: the European Wildcat is Felis silvestris silvestris.