If you're asking of which continent is the country of Canada located, it is North America. If you're asking of which part of North America is Canada located, it is directly no … rth of the U.S. Canada occupies the northern section of North America; it's just north of the United States of America. You seem to be putting the cart before the horse. North America is a continent. Canada, the US, and Mexico are the three largest countries in North America. Canada is the lar … gest country
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Canada (the country that i live in) is part of the North American continent. Canada is a country occupying most of northern North America, extending from the Atlantic Ocean in the east to the Pacific Ocean in the west and northward into the Arctic Ocean. It is the world's second largest country by total area. 
Canada is found in the northern portion of the continent of North America. The country is north of the United States, bordering the Atlantic, Pacific and Arctic oceans.   …    North America. You seem to be putting the cart before the horse. North America is a continent. Canada, the US, and Mexico are the three largest countries in North America. Canada is the lar … gest country
If you're asking of which continent is the country of Canada located, it is North America. If you're asking of which part of North America is Canada located, it is directly no … rth of the U.S. Canada occupies the northern section of North America; it's just north of the United States of America. Canada is found in the northern portion of the continent of North America. The country is north of the United States, bordering the Atlantic, Pacific and Arctic oceans.
You seem to be putting the cart before the horse. North America is a continent. Canada, the US, and Mexico are the three largest countries in North America. Canada is the lar … gest country in North America. Canada is also the second-largest country in the world, second only to Russia. Canada is found in the northern portion of the continent of North America. The country is north of the United States, bordering the Atlantic, Pacific and Arctic oceans.
Canada is a country, not a continent. It is the largest country in the continent of North America and the second largest in the world (the largest is Russia). 4 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: The question and answer are locked and cannot be edited. Canada is found in the northern portion of the continent of North America. The country is north of the United States, bordering the Atlantic, Pacific and Arctic oceans.
Canada is part of the North American continent and spans an area of 9.9 million sq. km. The country extends northward into the Arctic Ocean and to the Pacific Ocean in the west. Eastern Canada fronts on the Atlantic Ocean, including Baffin Bay, the Labrador Sea, Davis Strait, and the Gulf of St. Lawrence. North America is the 3rd largest continent by area after Africa and Asia. There are many islands off the coasts of North America the Greater and Lesser Antilles, the Arctic Archipelago, the Alexander Archipelago, and others.
· just now. Report Abuse. Canada is not a continent it is a country which is on the continent of North America. North America also has other countries; the United States, Mexico Nicaragua, Costa Rica, to name a few. goodness · 8 years ago.
North America is a well-defined entity culturally and socially. The United States and Canada are former British colonies, as a result of which they have similar traditions and culture. Canada is the 3rd largest country on the North American continent, after the United States and Mexico. Other countries in North America are Haiti, Grenada, Trinidad and Tobago, Antigua and Barbuda, etc. The continent also includes dozens of possessions and territories. North America is the 3rd largest continent by area after Africa and Asia. There are many islands off the coasts of North America the Greater and Lesser Antilles, the Arctic Archipelago, the Alexander Archipelago, and others.