The Berlin Wall was built by the communist government of East Berlin 1961. The wall separated East Berlin and West Berlin. It was built in order to prevent people from fleeing East Berlin.
The Berlin Wall was built after the Allies won WWII. As part of the peace treaty, Germany was divided into East and West, with East Germany under the auspices of the USSR and … West Germany being overseen by the UK and US. The main reason for building the Berlin Wall was to prevent a brain drain from East Germany to West Germany. From 1945 until the building of the wall, approximately 3.5 million people escaped into West Germany (including many Poles and Czechs.
Best Answer: the Berlin Wall was a physical barrier separating West Berlin from the German Democratic Republic (GDR), including East Berlin. the longer inner German border demarcated the border between East and West Germany. 
Constructed by the German Democratic Republic (GDR, East Germany), starting on 13 August 1961, the wall completely cut off (by land) West Berlin from surrounding East Germany and from East Berlin until it was opened in November 1989. Before the Wall's erection, 3.5 million East Germans circumvented Eastern Bloc emigration restrictions and defected from the GDR, many by crossing over the border from East Berlin into West Berlin; from which they could then travel to West Germany and other Western European countries.
Travelling to West Germany became difficult after closing the border between East and West Germany in 1952. The Wall was erected in 1961 because more than 2.6 million East Germans escaped to West Berlin or West Germany from 1949 to 1961 (total population of East Germany was about 17 million!). In May 1952 the open border (Zonengrenze) between East and West Germany was closed by the East German government. In the years after 1952 it became more difficult and dangerous to escape to the West over this border. However, the sectorial borders between East and West Berlin were not closed.
The Berlin Wall was both the physical division between West Berlin and East Germany from 1961 to 1989 and the symbolic boundary between democracy and Communism during the Cold War. Dates: August 13, 1961 -- November 9, 1989. Also Known As: Berliner Mauer (in German). 
The Berlin Wall was built at the line of demarcation between the eastern sector of Berlin and the western sectors. Before the Wall was built the border was open. On the West side, there were 90 checkpoints on the 45 kilometer border, that is two checkpoints on every kilometer. At the East side there were 78 checkpoints. It was constructed by the German democratic republic. It all started on the 13th of August 1961. It entirely cut of West Berlin from bordering East Germany and East Berlin. The Wall was built because of a long lasting suspicion with the Soviet Union on one side and Western Europe and the United States on the other.
In 1961, East Germany closed the border and built the Wall dividing West Berlin from East Berlin. The area of East Berlin was the Sovjet zone, while West Berlin was compounded of the French, British and U.S. zones.   The Eastern Bloc, under the control of the USSR, fell in 1989, as did the infamous Wall. The main reason for building the Berlin Wall was to prevent a brain drain from East Germany to West Germany. From 1945 until the building of the wall, approximately 3.5 million people escaped into West Germany (including many Poles and Czechs.
Despite the defensive reasons given for the wall separating East and West Berlin, the wall was foremost built to prevent residents of East Berlin from leaving to live in West Berlin (part of west Germany). The main reason for building the Berlin Wall was to prevent a brain drain from East Germany to West Germany. From 1945 until the building of the wall, approximately 3.5 million people escaped into West Germany (including many Poles and Czechs.
It was built (or rather, started) on 13 August 1961.   The Berlin Wall   Construction of the Berlin Wall started on 13 August 1961. It separated East and West Berlin a … nd plugged the last 'gap' in the Iron Curtain which divided Europe into two blocs. The main reason for building the Berlin Wall was to prevent a brain drain from East Germany to West Germany. From 1945 until the building of the wall, approximately 3.5 million people escaped into West Germany (including many Poles and Czechs.