1 Subjective expectation of privacy – a certain individual's opinion that a certain location or situation is private; varies greatly from person to person. 2  Objective, legitimate, reasonable expectation of privacy – An expectation of privacy generally recognized by society. The Supreme Court has also ruled that there is no objectively reasonable expectation of privacy (and thus no search) when officers hovering in a helicopter 400 feet above a suspect's house conduct surveillance.
The expectation of privacy is not reasonable if there exists a vantage point from which anyone, not just a police officer, can see or hear what was going on and if this vantage point is or should be known or reasonably foreseen by the person being surveilled. The expectation of privacy is not reasonable if the behaviors or communications in question were knowingly exposed to public view. Neither the simple desire for privacy, nor the fact that one took steps to obtain it, entitles one to reasonably expect it.
There are all sorts of things and examples where there is and isn’t a reasonable or legitimate expectation of privacy, such as: 1  Even if law enforcement agents trespass on your property, if your activities are visible to the general public, they’re not protected by the Fourth Amendment. 1 This is called the “open fields” doctrine. 2  For example, if you grow marijuana in your field that’s hundreds of feet from your home and the police spot it from the sky or while driving by, you can’t have a reasonable expectation of privacy in the field because it’s visible to the public.
Once it has been established that an individual possesses a reasonable expectation of privacy in a place to be searched or a thing to be seized, the Fourth Amendment's protections take hold, and the question then becomes what are the nature of those protections. 2d 576 (1976). In general the Court has said that individuals enjoy a reasonable expectation of privacy in their own bodies, Personal Property, homes, and business offices. Individuals also enjoy a qualified expectation of privacy in their automobiles.
There are two types of expectations of privacy: 1  Subjective expectation of privacy – a certain individual's opinion that a certain location or situation is private; varies greatly from person to person. 2  Objective, legitimate, reasonable expectation of privacy – An expectation of privacy generally recognized by society. The Supreme Court has also ruled that there is no objectively reasonable expectation of privacy (and thus no search) when officers hovering in a helicopter 400 feet above a suspect's house conduct surveillance.
Expectation of privacy is a legal test which is crucial in defining the scope of the applicability of the privacy protections of the Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution. The Supreme Court has also ruled that there is no objectively reasonable expectation of privacy (and thus no search) when officers hovering in a helicopter 400 feet above a suspect's house conduct surveillance.
The “reasonable expectation of privacy” test is applied to determine whether the Fourth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution will protect against certain searches and seizures by government officials. The test was first formulated by the U.S. Supreme Court in Katz v. United States, 389 U.S. 347 (1967). Other critics have charged that the “reasonable expectation of privacy” test has, in practice, led to a curtailment of Fourth Amendment privacy protection. Many cases applying the test have concluded that there is no reasonable expectation of privacy, and hence no Fourth Amendment
Examples of places where a person has a reasonable expectation of privacy are a person's residence or hotel room and public places which have been specifically provided by businesses or the public sector in order to ensure privacy, such as public restrooms, private portions of jailhouses, or a phone booth. The Supreme Court has also ruled that there is no objectively reasonable expectation of privacy (and thus no search) when officers hovering in a helicopter 400 feet above a suspect's house conduct surveillance.
For the last 40 years, the hornbook law of what amounts to a Fourth Amendment search was that a search occurs when government conduct violates both a subjective expectation of privacy and an objective reasonable expectation of privacy. As a result, the Court doesn’t purport to reach the “reasonable expectation of privacy” question. The Court also did not reach when installing a GPS device is a reasonable search, holding that the issue was forfeited because it was not raised below.
The reasonable expectations doctrine is not a rule granting substantive rights to an insured when there is no doubt as to the meaning of policy language. [Devcon Int'l Corp. v. Reliance Ins. Co., 2010 U.S. App. LEXIS 11619 (3d Cir. Ambiguity is an essential prerequisite to application of the reasonable expectations doctrine. The doctrine applies only when a term in a policy is ambiguous, and an insured may not use it to obtain coverage when the plain language of exclusion clearly places an injury beyond the policy's scope.