An armature winding made up of full pitch coils is termed a Full Pitch winding. In the figure below, angle A (the angular distance between coil sides) is 90 mechanical degrees, and the angular distance between adjacent pole centers is 90 mechanical degrees. Therefore, the coil pitch is 90° over 90°, or a 1 pitch. 
The armature, in contrast, must carry current so it is always a conductor or a conductive coil, oriented normal to both the field and to the direction of motion, torque (rotating machine), or force (linear machine). The armature's role is twofold. The other component is the field winding or field magnet. The role of the field component is simply to create a magnetic field (magnetic flux) for the armature to interact with, thus the field component can comprise either permanent magnets, or electromagnets formed by a conducting coil.
The armature winding of a real three-phase machine is a distributed winding made up of many coils. In large hydrogenerators there may be as many a 500 coils arranged to produce in excess of 90 poles grouped into three phases. We will consider synchronous machines in terms of a simplified construction. 
Windings can be classified in two groups: armature windings and field windings. The armature winding is the main current-carrying winding in which the electromotive force (emf) or counter-emf of rotation is induced. The current in the armature winding is known as the armature current. The field winding produces the magnetic field in the machine. The current in the field winding is known as the field or exciting current. See Electric rotating machinery, Generator, Motor. The location of the winding depends upon the type of machine.
Wave Winding View B, shows a wave winding on a drum-type armature. This type of winding is used in dc generators employed in high-voltage applications. Notice that the two ends of each coil are connected to commutator segments separated by the distance between poles. Drum-type armature : A drum-type armature is shown in figure.The armature windings are placed in slots cut in a drum-shaped iron core. Each winding completely surrounds the core so that the entire length of the conductor cuts the main magnetic field. Therefore, the total voltage induced in the armature is greater than in the Gramme-ring
The following diagram shows a part of simplex wave winding. Basically armature winding of a DC machine is wound by one of the two methods, lap winding or wave winding. The difference between these two is merely due to the end connections and commutator connections of the conductor. To know how armature winding is done, it is essential to know the following terminologies 1  -. Pole pitch: It is defined as number of armature slots per pole. 2  For example, if there are 36 conductors and 4 poles, then the pole pitch is 36/4=9.
DC Machine Armature Winding (Hadi Saadat) The DC machine armature windings are always of the closed continuous type of double-layer lap or wave winding. For small machines, the coils are directly wound into the armature slots using automatic winders. 
The armature winding is the main current-carrying winding in which the electromotive force or counter-emf of rotation is induced. The current in the armature winding is known as the armature current. The location of the winding depends upon the type of machine. The armature windings of dc motors are located on the rotor, since they must operate in union with the commutator.