It is possible for a graduate with a good degree in biomedical sciences to obtain a place on a four-year, fast-track, graduate entry course to study medicine – so you can be a Medical Doctor (M.D.) even if you couldn’t have cracked medical entrance exam after your 10+2. Author Bio: Tanmoy is an MSc Pharmacology graduate with 4.5 years of international research experience in biomedical sciences. He has been involved in projects on cardiovascular medicine, drug discovery, biomarker discovery, cell signalling and protein biology.
After completing Bachelors or Masters degree in Biomedical Sciences you could land with a job offer of 24,000 to 30,000 Euro p.a. in Europe or 45,000 USD p.a. in the US. So, the starting salaries are very handsome in abroad, and you can expect a pay rise of 5-10% every year. Author Bio: Tanmoy is an MSc Pharmacology graduate with 4.5 years of international research experience in biomedical sciences. He has been involved in projects on cardiovascular medicine, drug discovery, biomarker discovery, cell signalling and protein biology.
http://www.biologycourses.co.uk. This video produced by students at De Montfort University talks about some aspects of BIOMEDICAL SCIENCE. This is a subject offered at most UK universities and explores the human body in health and disease. It is laboratory based, and students experience a number of modern techniques for diagnosing, analysing and monitoring the treatment of disease. Biomedical science would suit anyone with a fascination for the human body. Biomedical science degrees are usually 3 years and full-tim
Life as a biomedical scientist In our opinion, biomedical science is a dynamic, varied, exciting and rewarding career with excellent prospects and promotion opportunities. But don’t take our word for it; this is what a few of our members have to say about life as a biomedical scientist. • Chartered Scientists-the Institute of Biomedical Science has been granted a licence by The Science Council to award the designation Chartered Scientist to qualifying IBMS members. Chartered Scientist is a mark of excellence and achievement.
The IBMS, or Institute of Biomedical Science, is the professional body for biomedical scientists in the UK. Our aim is to promote the study and development of biomedical science by maintaining the highest standards of professional qualification and practice. • Chartered Scientists-the Institute of Biomedical Science has been granted a licence by The Science Council to award the designation Chartered Scientist to qualifying IBMS members. Chartered Scientist is a mark of excellence and achievement.
Biomedical science is ever changing and very dynamic, hence offers exciting career opportunities in specialist laboratory work, consultant work, research, education and management while serving the human society. The findings of the biomedical scientists are instrumental in making the advancements of modern medicine. Author Bio: Tanmoy is an MSc Pharmacology graduate with 4.5 years of international research experience in biomedical sciences. He has been involved in projects on cardiovascular medicine, drug discovery, biomarker discovery, cell signalling and protein biology.
Life extension science, also known as anti-aging medicine, indefinite life extension, experimental gerontology, and biomedical gerontology, is the study of slowing down or reversing the processes of aging to extend both the maximum and average lifespan. 
Biomedical scientists work in healthcare to diagnose disease and evaluate the effectiveness of treatment through the analysis of fluids and tissue samples from patients. They provide the “engine room” of modern medicine with 70% of diagnoses based on the pathology results provided by laboratory services. • Chartered Scientists-the Institute of Biomedical Science has been granted a licence by The Science Council to award the designation Chartered Scientist to qualifying IBMS members. Chartered Scientist is a mark of excellence and achievement.
Medical Microbiology As a biomedical scientist in microbiology you will study micro-organisms such as bacteria, fungi and parasites which cause disease. You will identify these organisms and establish the antibiotic treatment required to kill them therefore stopping the disease. • Chartered Scientists-the Institute of Biomedical Science has been granted a licence by The Science Council to award the designation Chartered Scientist to qualifying IBMS members. Chartered Scientist is a mark of excellence and achievement.