In 1972, Massachusetts’ Conservation Commissions were given responsibility for administering the new Massachusetts Wetlands Protection Act (G.L. Ch. 131 §40). Now in addition to overseeing acquisition and protection of the town’s conservation land, they had regulatory authority over all wetlands in their jurisdiction. In 1976, Congress enacted the Toxic Substance Control Act (TSCA). This act regulated the introduction of new chemicals into the marketplace. Most existing chemicals were grandfathered (PCBs were an exception) and placed on a list called the TSCA Inventory.
A very big step in the protection of wetlands was the passage in 1977 of the Clean Water Act (officially the Federal Water Pollution Control Act). It was actually an amendment to the earlier Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972. In 1976, Congress enacted the Toxic Substance Control Act (TSCA). This act regulated the introduction of new chemicals into the marketplace. Most existing chemicals were grandfathered (PCBs were an exception) and placed on a list called the TSCA Inventory.
The Explosives Safety Acts (2) were passed by the state legislature in 1937 and 1957 to regulate the use, storage and handling of explosives primarily to prevent damage from mining operations. In 1945 the Surface Mining Conservation and Reclamation Act was a more comprehensive attempt to regulate surface coal mining. Legislation was also passed to encourage the siting of coal refuse disposal areas on lands previously affected by mining (Act 114). In 1996 the Surface Mining Conservation and Reclamation Act was amended one more time to further encourage the private reclamation of abandoned mine lands through remining.
The Presidency of Theodore Roosevelt was the executive branch of the United States government from September 14, 1901 to March 4, 1909. Before serving as 26th President of the United States of America, Roosevelt, a Republican, was 25th Vice President. He also previously served as Police Commissioner of New York City, Assistant Secretary of the Navy, and Governor of New York.
The use of child labor has been the subject of federal law since the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938. However, child labor laws go back more than a century earlier, to a Connecticut schooling law of 1813 and the first minimum-age law that passed in Pennsylvania in 1843. At the time, the textile mills of the Northeast were hiring school-age children and paying miserable wages for hazardous work. The state legislature of Massachusetts passed a law in 1836 that required all child workers under the age of 15 to attend school for at least three months a year. In 1842, the same state limited daily working hours for children to 10
Federal Minimum-Age Laws. Although Congress passed an amendment to the Constitution banning child labor in 1924, the amendment was not ratified by the states. A federal minimum-age law did not pass until 1938 with the Fair Labor Standards Act. The state legislature of Massachusetts passed a law in 1836 that required all child workers under the age of 15 to attend school for at least three months a year. In 1842, the same state limited daily working hours for children to 10
In 1985, Congress passed the 1985 Food Security Act (Swampbuster Act). This was intended to solve some problems that had arisen in applying the Clean Water Act to agricultural land. A highlight of this act was that it attempted to craft a more precise definition of “wetland” that could be used in the field. In 1976, Congress enacted the Toxic Substance Control Act (TSCA). This act regulated the introduction of new chemicals into the marketplace. Most existing chemicals were grandfathered (PCBs were an exception) and placed on a list called the TSCA Inventory.
(Grass-Roots Environmentalists) The Massachusetts Legislature passed the first law enabling a municipality to establish a conservation commission in 1957; by the end of the following year 11 local conservation commissions were created in Massachusetts. Conservation Commission Origins. A 1956 proposal to drain and fill a marsh in Ipswich, Massachusetts for a housing development demonstrated the need for a local governmental body responsible for the conservation of the natural resources of the municipality.
(Conservation Commissions in Massachusetts). Other northeastern states followed Massachusetts' lead: Rhode Island passed an enabling act in 1960, Connecticut in 1961, New Hampshire in 1963, Maine in 1965, New York in 1967 and New Jersey in 1968. Conservation Commission Origins. A 1956 proposal to drain and fill a marsh in Ipswich, Massachusetts for a housing development demonstrated the need for a local governmental body responsible for the conservation of the natural resources of the municipality.