Back in early 1941, when Roosevelt made the speech that so impressed Rockwell, America’s entry into the war was still nearly a year in the future, and many Americans remained unconvinced that the rampaging armies of European tyrants were a threat to them. In the future days, which we seek to make secure, we look forward to a world founded upon four essential human freedoms. The first is freedom of speech and expression—everywhere in the world. The second is freedom of every person to worship God in his own way
The Four Freedoms is a series of four 1943 oil paintings by the American artist Norman Rockwell. Following the 1943–44 War Bond Show, the Four Freedoms toured the country further by train in a specially-designed car. Through the 1950s the Four Freedoms hung in Hibbs' offices at The Post. Hibb retired in 1961 and by the time The Post was discontinued in 1969, Rockwell regained possession of the original paintings.
He couldn’t stop thinking about the State of the Union address President Franklin D. Roosevelt had delivered on January 6, 1941. For Rockwell, the little town meeting connected with FDR’s words in a way that was downright inspiring. In the future days, which we seek to make secure, we look forward to a world founded upon four essential human freedoms. The first is freedom of speech and expression—everywhere in the world. The second is freedom of every person to worship God in his own way
The fourth is freedom from fear. . . anywhere in the world. --President Franklin D. Roosevelt, Message to Congress, January 6, 1941. P resident Roosevelt was a gifted communicator. On January 6, 1941, he addressed Congress, delivering the historic Four Freedoms speech. The first is freedom of speech and expression--everywhere in the world. The second is freedom of every person to worship God in his own way-- 
This speech delivered by President Franklin Roosevelt on January 6, 1941, became known as his Four Freedoms Speech, due to a short closing portion describing the President s vision in which the American ideals of individual liberties were extended throughout the world. 
We look forward to a world founded upon four essential human freedoms. The first is freedom of speech and expression--everywhere in the world. The second is freedom of every person to worship God in his own way-- everywhere in the world. The third is freedom from want. . . everywhere in the world
The four freedoms of the Constitution are the freedom of speech and  expression, freedom of worship, freedom from want and freedom from  fear. These were laid out in a speec … h by Franklin D. Roosevelt. Answered. His name is Sgt. John Jones from the HBO documentary Alive Day Memories: Home From Iraq. From what I have read, the No Regrets poster was photo-shopped from his picture on … HBO and then a caption added.
Norman Rockwell Museum. Norman Rockwell Museum presents the world’s largest collection of original Norman Rockwell art, including beloved paintings from The Saturday Evening Post and the Four Freedoms, and the best in the field of American illustration. 
Roosevelt’s Four Freedoms speech had struck a chord with Rockwell, but the lofty language contrasted sharply with Rockwell’s folksy images of small-town America. “I juggled the Four Freedoms around in my mind, reading a sentence here, a sentence there, trying to find a picture,” he later recalled. In the future days, which we seek to make secure, we look forward to a world founded upon four essential human freedoms. The first is freedom of speech and expression—everywhere in the world. The second is freedom of every person to worship God in his own way
Norman Rockwell bequeathed his personal collection in trust to the Norman Rockwell Museum in 1973 for the advancement of art appreciation and art education . This collection included the Four Freedoms paintings. The works remained on exhibit at The Norman Rockwell Museum at The Old Corner House for nearly 25 years. Following the 1943–44 War Bond Show, the Four Freedoms toured the country further by train in a specially-designed car. Through the 1950s the Four Freedoms hung in Hibbs' offices at The Post. Hibb retired in 1961 and by the time The Post was discontinued in 1969, Rockwell regained possession of the original