Creatine is a natural substance that turns into creatine phosphate in the body. Creatine phosphate helps make a substance called adenosine triphosphate (ATP). ATP provides the energy for muscle contractions. The body produces some of the creatine it uses. It also comes from protein-rich foods such as meat or fish. 
Creatine Monohydrate is one of the most popular supplements used by people looking to build lean muscle mass, maximize performance and increase strength. According to survey data, over 40% of National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) athletes reported that they have used creatine. Creatine monohydrate supplements are products that contain a very pure form of creatine and are often taken pre/post workout and/or with other supplements like whey protein.
http://www.axislabs.net/pure-microniz... Creatine is a natural compound made in the body and is derived from the diet through meat products. In the body, Creatine is changed into a molecule called phosphocreatine which serves as a storage reservoir for regenerating ATP. ATP is the chemical source of energy for muscle contraction and quick energy. 
Creatine monohydrate is a naturally occurring amino acid that is present in the human body and a few select foods. Because creatine monohydrate helps to improve muscle performance, some athletes take it in the form of supplements. Since it is important to maintain healthy blood and urine creatine levels, all orally ingested creatine supplements should be taken in moderation.
For the use of creatine to increase athletic performance, see Creatine supplements. Not to be confused with creatinine. Creatine (/ˈkriːətiːn/ or /ˈkriːətɪn/) is a nitrogenous organic acid that occurs naturally in vertebrates and helps to supply energy to all cells in the body, primarily muscle. This is achieved by increasing the formation of adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Creatine itself can be phosphorylated by creatine kinase to form phosphocreatine, which is used as an energy reserve in skeletal muscles and the brain. Synthesis primarily takes place in the kidney and liver, with creatine then being transported to the muscles via the blood. Approximately 95% of the human body's total creatine is located in skeletal muscle
Creatine monohydrate is considered to be the most basic form of creatine that is currently being sold as a supplement. More complex creatine formulations such as buffered creatine and tri-creatine malate are said to be more effective. Because creatine monohydrate helps to improve muscle performance, some athletes take it in the form of supplements. Since it is important to maintain healthy blood and urine creatine levels, all orally ingested creatine supplements should be taken in moderation.
Over 90% of the creatine in the human body is found in muscle. Bodybuilders consider creatine a necessity for getting results. Creatine monohydrate is the most cost-effective dietary supplement in terms of muscle mass and strength gains. Creatine can help support protein synthesis, which helps muscles grow. Creatine supplementation has been studied for over 80 years-broad use of this substance has only gained popularity in the past decade. A new course is available at Weik University on creatine monohydrate. Those interested in sitting through an easy course, no need to look any further because class has just begun. Everyone is guaranteed an A for the course as long as you sit through the course and pay attention (you can take notes if you wish).
Creatine is a chemical that is normally found in the body, mostly in muscles. It is made by the body and can also be obtained from certain foods. Fish and meats are good sources of creatine. Creatine can also be made in the laboratory. Creatine is most commonly used for improving exercise performance and increasing muscle mass in athletes and older adults. There is some science supporting the use of creatine in improving the athletic performance of young, healthy people during brief high-intensity activity such as sprinting.
Creatine monohydrate is a natural substance that turns into creatine phosphate in the body. Creatine phosphate helps make a substance called adenosine triphosphate (ATP). ATP provides the energy for muscle contractions. Creatine monohydrate supplements are products that contain a very pure form of creatine and are often taken pre/post workout and/or with other supplements like whey protein.