Some of the underlying causes of older-adult falls, such as muscle weakness, medications that cause dizziness, improper footwear, impaired vision, slick floors, poor lighting, loose rugs, clutter and uneven surfaces, can be improved. 
1 Vestibular neuritis. 2  This cause of dizziness is also due to an inner ear abnormality and it may be more serious in seniors. 3  The symptoms are vertigo that is present with movement and while resting, nausea and abnormal back-and-forth eye movements called nystagmus.. 1 Central dizziness. 2  This is a type of dizziness that is caused by a disturbance in the central nervous system, usually by an interruption of blood flow to a part of the brain. 3  Symptoms of dizziness are usually accompanied by loss of muscle coordination called ataxia and by nausea.
Common causes of dizziness include inner-ear disorders, medications, and alcohol. Dizziness is often a result of vertigo. It can also be caused by a problem in the inner ear, where balance is regulated. The most common cause of vertigo and vertigo-related dizziness is benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV).
Etiology. The most common causes of peripheral vertigo include BPPV, vestibular neuronitis, Meniere ménière, disease and-immune mediated-inner ear. Disease the most common cause of central dizziness is, migraine frequently referred to as vestibular migraine or-migraine associated. dizziness 
Of all vestibular disorders, benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) is one of the most common in older adults. BPPV causes vertigo, dizziness, and other symptoms due to debris that has collected within a part of the inner ear. A tendency to fall and symptoms of dizziness should not be dismissed as unavoidable consequences of aging but may be important signs of a disease that might be cured or controlled. Because balance is a complex function, there is often no single identifiable cause of falls in an elderly person.
Dizziness has many possible causes, including inner ear disturbance, motion sickness and medication effects. Sometimes it's caused by an underlying health condition, such as poor circulation, infection or injury. The way dizziness makes you feel and your triggers provide clues for possible causes. 1 Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV). 2  This condition causes an intense and brief but false sense that you're spinning or moving. 3  These episodes are triggered by a rapid change in head movement, such as when you turn over in bed, sit up or experience a blow to the head. 4  BPPV is the most common cause of vertigo.
Injury. Injuries such as head trauma or damage to the inner ear can cause dogs to lose their balance. Your dog can't tell you when it's in pain, and dogs sometimes mask hurt with behaviors such as wagging their tail. So it's important to be aware of canine signs of pain. 
Meniere's disease. This is an inner ear disorder thought to be caused by a buildup of fluid and changing pressure in the ear. It can cause episodes of vertigo along with ringing in the ears (tinnitus) and hearing loss. Vestibular neuritis or labyrinthitis. This is an inner ear problem usually related to infection (usually viral)
Although dizziness can occur in people of any age, it is more common among older adults. A fear of dizziness can cause older adults to limit their physical and social activities. Dizziness can also lead to falls and other injuries. It is common to feel lightheaded from time to time. Brief episodes of lightheadedness are not usually the result of a serious problem. 