Deviant behavior refers to a behavior that does not conform to social norms and values. A deviant behavior elicits negative response. Deviant behavior can be formal or informal, and voluntary or involuntary. An involuntary violation of an informal norm is far less offensive than a voluntary violation of a formal norm.
Deviant behavior refers to a type of behavior that supposedly deviates from what is considered normal by most people or by the general society. When a person acts and behaves differently from what is considered normal, he/she may have a deviant type of behavior. People that tend to be deviant are said to be controlled by various factors including biological, social, and psychological.
Many of the rules that define deviance and the contexts in which deviant behavior is labeled as deviant are framed by the wealthy for the poor, by men for women, by older people for younger people, and by ethnic minorities for minority groups.
However, in China this behavior is considered demeaning and especially deviant when aimed at elders. There are also variations of what is considered deviant within the same culture. For example, committing an act of murder in the U.S. is considered deviant (to say the least).
Deviant behavior is behavior which does not adhere to widely-accepted social or cultural norms. For example, murder is a form of extreme deviant behavior which violates the cultural norm which states that it is unacceptable to kill another human being. There are a number of approaches to the study of deviance, along with explanations for why deviant behavior occurs, and how it might be addressed.
The word deviance connotes odd or unacceptable behavior, but in the sociological sense of the word, deviance is simply any violation of society’s norms. Deviance can range from something minor, such as a traffic violation, to something major, such as murder.
Provide an example of a human behavior that is considered deviant in one society, but is not considered deviant in others. What are the factors that have contributed to this society's perspective of the.