The best place for someone to begin is the tax assessors office. Here are the steps for how to do title search. Tax Assessor-The first place that you should start your search is at the tax assessors office. This may be a town or a county office where you can obtain specific information about the property. Summary. If you are considering purchasing a home via auction, through a for sale by owner or a short sale, it is a good idea to do a title search. In the long run, the time you invest in learning how to do your own title search will be beneficial and may protect you from legal problems later.
Title Insurance. If you have never purchased a home, you may not be familiar with title insurance. Title insurance is a policy that indemnifies you and/or your lender (if you have a mortgage) against any defects in the title of your property. Additionally, you will have the option to purchase an owner’s policy of title insurance. Typically, the process of ordering a title policy and receiving that policy takes about two weeks, however, different factors can affect that time frame.
Results. Once the title company has searched, examined and cured the title, it can determine the ability to insure the title. If there are any major defects discovered on the title, you will be made aware of these before you close the transaction. If the title company determines the title to be insurable, they will issue a policy of title insurance. Additionally, you will have the option to purchase an owner’s policy of title insurance. Typically, the process of ordering a title policy and receiving that policy takes about two weeks, however, different factors can affect that time frame.
1 Search for liens against the owner and the other parties on title. 2  Search for liens against the buyer (for sale transactions only). 3  Search for Bankruptcy and Judgement proceedings against the owner of the property. 4  Search for liens against the buyer is not something that is covered in a title search. This kind of title searching usually includes searches for property liens, liens against the owner and the other parties on title and search for bankruptcy proceedings against the owner of the property. There are a variety of title searches which provide the customer with a report, but no insurance.
Title Search. The purpose of a title search is to assure you and your lender that the seller is the legal owner of the property that you are buying and that there are no outstanding claims or liens against it. The title search may be performed by a lawyer, an escrow or title company, or other specialist prior to closing. Public real estate records can be spread among several local government offices, including surveyors, county courts, tax assessors, and recorders of deeds. The estimated cost of title services and title insurance varies by state. For example, a lender's policy on a $100,000 loan can range from $175 in one state to $900 in another. In some states, the price can even vary by county
But there's one important detail remaining. Before the transaction can close, a title search must be made. The most accurate description of title is a bundle of rights in real property. A title search is the process of determining from the public record just what these rights are and who owns them. 
One of the most crucial steps to closing a real estate transaction is the title search. As an investor, you need to do prudent research and be 100% sure that the person you’re buying from has a clear title to the property. 
Home Closing. If you have a mortgage, you will not be able to close your transaction until the title search and exam are completed. Once your transaction closes, you will receive the deed to your property along with your title insurance policy. Additionally, you will have the option to purchase an owner’s policy of title insurance. Typically, the process of ordering a title policy and receiving that policy takes about two weeks, however, different factors can affect that time frame.
Before the closing, a title search on the property is required. Title search. Lenders require a title search to make sure the borrower will receive clear title to the property. Lenders want to be sure that the seller is indeed the owner of the property. The standard closing time-frame from the day you've accepted the contract, to the day you move in, is between 30 to 45 days. The first 10 days is usually set aside for the buyer to complete a home inspection. During this period, the appraisal is on hold, as well as the ordering of the title insurance policy.