1 Plant impatiens transplants after the last spring frost in humus-rich, moist, well-drained soil. 2  Make sure the plants have some shelter from the wind. 3  The closer impatiens plants are, the taller they will grow, so space accordingly (impatiens plants can grown anywhere between 6 and 30 inches tall). You can grow outdoors or. You can grow outdoors or indoors while it's frost-tree and they have shade. A soil temperature (not room temperature) of 75° F is perfect. if you are looking for the quickest results it is best to start them indoors with a heated germination mat.
Temperature. Temperatures for various hybrids of outdoor impatiens plants should be 50 to 55 degrees Fahrenheit at night and 65 to 70 degrees Fahrenheit during the day, but others thrive in warmer weather. Watering plants daily will help them stand tall and stay colorful during hot summer days. Do not plant impatiens until about two weeks after the last spring frost. Outdoor container-grown impatiens require frequent watering, especially on hot summer days. Similar to flowerbed plants, outdoor-potted impatiens need filtered light. They can freeze if the thermometer drops to 32 degrees Fahrenheit.
1 Make sure the plants have some shelter from the wind. 2  The closer impatiens plants are, the taller they will grow, so space accordingly (impatiens plants can grown anywhere between 6 and 30 inches tall). 3  For flower beds, plant 8 to 12 inches apart so the plants will stay low to the ground. You can grow outdoors or. You can grow outdoors or indoors while it's frost-tree and they have shade. A soil temperature (not room temperature) of 75° F is perfect. if you are looking for the quickest results it is best to start them indoors with a heated germination mat.
In the Winter. In the winter begonias can tolerate cooler temperatures. If it doesn t freeze in your area most of them can be left outside year round. I put my begonias in the greenhouse before the first freeze. I do not use the heater in the greenhouse unless the temperature goes below 40 degrees.
impatiens in the winter. If your impatiens get to long and leggy, you can also take cuttings and root them in water to start new plants. For plants I grow outside, I will cut back before the first frost and leave the cuttings in water in a sunny window til spring and then plant them outside. You can grow outdoors or. You can grow outdoors or indoors while it's frost-tree and they have shade. A soil temperature (not room temperature) of 75° F is perfect. if you are looking for the quickest results it is best to start them indoors with a heated germination mat.
It is different in other parts of the U.S. In the Winter In the winter begonias can tolerate cooler temperatures. If it doesn t freeze in your area most of them can be left outside year round. I put my begonias in the greenhouse before the first freeze. I do not use the heater in the greenhouse unless the temperature goes below 40 degrees.
Light: Impatiens flowers need shade to full sun (the more sun the better). Water: The more sun your impatiens flowers get, the more water it will need. Pay attention to the moisture of the plant's potting soil, and make sure that it is consistently moist. Never let impatiens dry out. Fertilizer: Impatiens flowers do not really need plant fertilizer