National Scuba Instructor Salary Information. The average yearly salary for Scuba Instructor is $39,100. If you are just beginning to work a new job as a Scuba Instructor, you could expect a starting pay rate of $32,200 annually. As is true for most jobs and careers, you can expect your hourly pay rate or salary to increase as you gain experience and the longer you are employed with the same employer. You could potentially make an average income of around $46,000 after several years on the job with increased wages.
SCUBA, an acronym meaning Self Contained Underwater Breathing Apparatus, allows millions of divers the world over to play or work underwater. Before using SCUBA gear, you must first take and pass a SCUBA diving course led by a certified instructor. Once you have basic certification, you must take additional diving instructor training courses and pass a series of diving tests. Approved SCUBA diving and diving instructor training courses are available from dive schools as well as community colleges with aquatics programs.
We get ask how much will an average scuba instructor earn while working in Thailand (Phuket, Pattaya, Phi Phi, Koh Samui) after completing their IDC and IE, as its very common that Dive Instructors want to be able to work and live in Thailand. 
Scuba Diving, Instructor Salary. Scuba Diving, Instructor average salary is $34,771, median salary is $32,302 with a salary range from $26,520 to $45,490. Scuba Diving, Instructor salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Scuba Diving, Instructor salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented as is and updated regularly.
Diving instructors' salaries also depend on the economy. When times are tight, scuba instructors may find a decrease in available work. Scuba diving may be seen as a luxury, and many people may discontinue or choose not to take up lessons during an economic downturn. Diving Instructors Salary Info. According to the College Foundation of North Carolina (CFNC), a determining factor in a diving instructor's salary is his or her proximity to the water; coastal regions may offer the most employment opportunities (www.cfnc.org).
As of 2014, SCUBA diving instructors earned an average salary of $36,000 annually, according to the SimplyHired website. Salaries for SCUBA instructors vary by location, however. Once you have basic certification, you must take additional diving instructor training courses and pass a series of diving tests. Approved SCUBA diving and diving instructor training courses are available from dive schools as well as community colleges with aquatics programs.
The Salary Expert website says that New York SCUBA diving instructors, for example, earned $53,000 per year in 2014. Chicago and Atlanta SCUBA instructors had below-average salaries, at $30,000 per year. Salary Expert states that Los Angeles SCUBA instructors made annual salaries of $38,000. Once you have basic certification, you must take additional diving instructor training courses and pass a series of diving tests. Approved SCUBA diving and diving instructor training courses are available from dive schools as well as community colleges with aquatics programs.
Salary. Average salary for PADI-certified (The Professional Association of Diving Instructors) dive instructors in the UK and Ireland is from £13,000 – £18,500, depending on experience and location.
Scuba diving instructors need to be certified by an international agency to be hired by credible diving outlets. Among other things, instructor certification requires completion of training courses and diving experience. Diving instructors' salaries vary by season, proximity to water and the economy. Diving Instructors Salary Info. According to the College Foundation of North Carolina (CFNC), a determining factor in a diving instructor's salary is his or her proximity to the water; coastal regions may offer the most employment opportunities (www.cfnc.org).
At dive resorts, newbies gross around $20k annually, while seasoned instructors make about $22k per year. On a cruise ship, expect to make about $1,700 per month; while your live-aboard dive instructor salary comes in around $2,000 per month. If you manage to land a private yacht gig, you can expect to rake in close to $3,000 per month. Expected Lifetime Earnings: $1,000,000. First, let's look at what you bring to the table. If you've racked up extra certifications, such as night diving, deep diving, or dry-suit diving (just a few examples), you're much more valuable to a potential employer.