genus Lactobacillus-type genus of the family Lactobacillaceae. genus Diplococcus-a genus of bacteria. genus Streptococcus-a genus of bacteria. genus Spirochaeta, Spirochaeta-the type genus of the family Spirochaetaceae; a bacterium that is flexible, undulating, and chiefly aquatic. genus Treponema-type genus of Treponemataceae: anaerobic spirochetes with an undulating rigid body; parasitic in warm-blooded animals. genus Mycobacterium-nonmotile Gram-positive aerobic bacteria. genus Polyangium, Polyangium-type genus of the family Polyangiaceae: myxobacteria with rounded fruiting bodies enclosed in a membrane.
In the scientific classification established by Carl von Linne, linné each species has to be assigned to a (genus binary), nomenclature which in turn is a lower level of a hierarchy of (ranks, family, suborder, order, subclass, class/division, phyla kingdom and). domain Bacterial taxonomy is the taxonomy, i.e. the rank-based classification, of bacteria.
Genus and species (taxonomy). The bacterial world is complicated, and we have only a difficult naming system to help us navigate and see the connections and distinctions. But there is hope of understanding it, so don't panic yet. In the big picture, we can divide life into four large categories. 
genus Shigella-a genus of bacteria. genus Erwinia-a genus of bacteria. genus Rickettsia-can cause typhus and Rocky Mountain spotted fever in humans. genus Chlamydia-type genus of the family Chlamydiaceae: disease-causing parasites. genus Mycobacterium-nonmotile Gram-positive aerobic bacteria. genus Polyangium, Polyangium-type genus of the family Polyangiaceae: myxobacteria with rounded fruiting bodies enclosed in a membrane.
A genus of bacteria. Classified under: Nouns denoting animals. Hypernyms (bacteria genus is a kind of...): genus ((biology) taxonomic group containing one or more species). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of bacteria genus): genus Leptospira (very slender aerobic spirochetes; free-living or parasitic in mammals). genus Nitrosomonas; Nitrosomonas (ellipsoidal soil bacteria). genus Nitrobacter; Nitrobacter (rod-shaped soil bacteria). genus Heliobacter; Heliobacter (a genus of helical or curved or straight aerobic bacteria with rounded ends and multiple flagella; found in the gastric mucosa of primates (including humans)).
1. bacteria genus-a genus of bacteria. genus Heliobacter, Heliobacter-a genus of helical or curved or straight aerobic bacteria with rounded ends and multiple flagella; found in the gastric mucosa of primates (including humans). Aerobacter, genus Aerobacter-aerobic bacteria widely distributed in nature. genus Mycobacterium-nonmotile Gram-positive aerobic bacteria. genus Polyangium, Polyangium-type genus of the family Polyangiaceae: myxobacteria with rounded fruiting bodies enclosed in a membrane.
SINGULAR PLURAL medium media bacterium bacteria flagellum flagella bacillus bacilli coccus cocci genus genera species species inoculum inocula phenomenon phenomena criterion criteria. A strain may or may not be a typical representative of the species to which it may be assigned. Each named species of living thing is always referred to by its genus and species name, never the species name alone. Two examples are a common bacterium, Escherichia coli and humans, Homo sapiens.
1 Bacterium —a genus of rod shaped bacteria first described in 1828, that later gave its name to the members of the Monera, formerly referred to as a moneron (plural monera) in English and eine Moneren(fem. Bacterial taxonomy is the taxonomy, i.e. the rank-based classification, of bacteria.
1 Vibrio —a genus of comma shaped bacteria first described in 1854). 2  Bacterium —a genus of rod shaped bacteria first described in 1828, that later gave its name to the members of the Monera, formerly referred to as a moneron (plural monera) in English and eine Moneren(fem. Bacterial taxonomy is the taxonomy, i.e. the rank-based classification, of bacteria.