Location. Holidays in Rhodes. Lindos Princess Beach Hotel is located in an ideal area for beach holidays in Rhodes near the famous and historic village of Lindos which is just 7 km away from this all-inclusive resort and offers a fantastic opportunity for shopping, swimming and sightseeing. It is also 1 km away from the village of Lardos. Furthermore, our beach hotel is 50 km from the airport, which can be reached by bus, car or taxi, and 55 km from the port of Rhodes, 55 km from Rhodes with its old town built in medieval times and a UNESCO global cultural heritage site together with plenty of other sights.
It is situated at a distance of 60 kilometers southern to the town of Rhodes, at the eastern coast of the island, only a few kilometers far from Lindos and some 70 kilometers southern to the International Airport of Rhodes. 
Vlicha Beach. Vlicha (or Vlycha) beach is situated approximately 3km north of Lindos and is a very long stretch of beach with a mix of sand and shingle. There are some popular 4 and 5 star hotels and luxury villas near the beach making this a perfect spot for a holiday retreat
Lindos Beach The beach of Lindos is found, just below the acropolis, at a distance of a few hundred meters far from the settlement and some 50 kilometers southern to the town of Rhodes. Being that close to Lindos, a wide range of accommodation, shopping and amusement facilities are offered to the tourist. Ladiko Beach The beach of Ladiko is situated at the eastern coast of the island within a small cove, just after the Anthony Quinn beach, at a distance of some 15 kilometers far from the town of Rhodes. It is an excellent beach, 700 meters long and 30 meters wide. more about Ladiko Beach...
Faliraki Beach The sandy beach of Faliraki is situated at the eastern coast of Rhodes, at a distance of some 12-16 kilometers far from the town of Rhodes ant the South. It is a more than 5 kilometers long beach, in front of the homonymous tourist resort. more about Faliraki Beach... Ladiko Beach The beach of Ladiko is situated at the eastern coast of the island within a small cove, just after the Anthony Quinn beach, at a distance of some 15 kilometers far from the town of Rhodes. It is an excellent beach, 700 meters long and 30 meters wide. more about Ladiko Beach...
Vlicha Beach The sandy beach in Vlycha Bay is situated at a distance of some 3 kilometers far from Lindos at the Northwest and some 47 kilometers southern to the town of Rhodes. As Vlycha is very close to Lindos, you have at your disposal all the facilities available in the settlement. Ladiko Beach The beach of Ladiko is situated at the eastern coast of the island within a small cove, just after the Anthony Quinn beach, at a distance of some 15 kilometers far from the town of Rhodes. It is an excellent beach, 700 meters long and 30 meters wide. more about Ladiko Beach...
Taxis are almost always Mercedes and almost always go too fast. BUSES-There is a regular bus service between Rhodes Town and the south of the island. It takes about 1 hour twenty minutes to get to Rhodes from Lindos (calling at many villages and towns on the way). There is a timetable in the Main square. You have to go to the bus stops at the main car-park, above the village, to catch a bus to Pefkos or Rhodes. The most common form of transport in Lindos is The Donkey! Working from the Donkey Station near the Main Square the Donkeys take tourists to and from the Acropolis. They also meet the Rhodes boat excursions to carry tourists up the hill from the Pallas Beach.
60-80 minuten. In the morning there runs a bus every half hour from Rhodes to Lindos. In the afternoon, the frequency is somewhat lower with 1 bus per hour. Along the route, the bus makes several stops at beach resorts. The center of Lindos is pedestrianized. Buses (including tour buses of the cruise lines) have to park at Kranas Square. This is about 20 minutes walk from the city center at the foot of the hill. The first part of the road is downhill.