Click on a place to view Younis immigration records. The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Younis families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. Click on a circle in the chart to view Younis birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names.
Muslim Baby and Islamic names database provides meaning of Islamic muslim baby boys or girls (male and female) names both in english and urdu, if there are any errors, please report to the editor or submit additional meanings, names and history of muslim names that you think should be included in our database. You have searched for Yunus meaning in urdu or یونس meaning in english in muslim baby name databasae, remember names selection is very important in the life of every muslim family with new born babies, so choose the best names according to meaning, history and characteristics associated with each name.
His name is mentioned five times in the Quran and is also the name of chapter 10 of the Quran (Surat Yunus). The origin of the Yunus is said to be Hebrew and the meaning is said to be dove, pigeon. It is a good Islamic name even though its origin is not Arabic, since it is mentioned in the Quran and is part of Islamic culture. The name Yunus is also used by Christians and Jews as Jonah as he is mentioned in the Bible as a prophet. 139. And Yunus was one of the messengers. 
List of Muslim baby names, Muslim baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Muslim names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Muslim baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. 
Younis Meaning: The meaning of Younis has not been submitted. If you have the meaning of Younis, please submit it with along with any reference pages referring to the meaning of Younis. ©Copyright 2004 - 2015 Meaning-of-Names.com-Powered by Swigity, LLC Meaning of Younis Last Name-Surname-Family Name Younis.
Muslim Meaning: The name Yunus is a Muslim baby name. In Muslim the meaning of the name Yunus is: The Biblical Jonas is the English language equivalent. A Prophet's name. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 1. People with this name have a deep inner desire for a stable, loving family or community, and a need to work with others and to be appreciated.
Yunus (also spelled Younes or Younis, Arabic : ‎, Younis, Persian : ‎‎, Younes) is a common male given name and the Arabic equivalent of the name Jonah, meaning dove. In Turkish it means dolphin. 