spat 3. n. A cloth or leather gaiter covering the shoe upper and the ankle and fastening under the shoe with a strap: The waiter wore spats as part of his uniform. spat 1. v. A past tense and a past participle of spit 1. n. pl. spat or spats. A larva of an oyster or similar bivalve that has settled by attaching to a surface
The countess, with a cheerful expression on her face, looked down at her nails and spat a little for luck as she returned to the drawing room. War and Peace by Tolstoy, Leo View in context. he hissed, and struck the master of fence a stinging blow across the face, and spat upon him. 
Once oyster larvae permanently attach to a surface, they are known as spat. Once oyster larvae attach to a surface, such as other oyster shells, they are known as spat (shown in inset image). As generation after generation of spat grow into adult oysters, they form dense clusters known as oyster reefs or beds. 
noun. verb. A spat is defined as a silly fight or petty quarrel. A fight over who is taller is an example of a silly spat. The definition of spat is to fight over something petty or silly, or is the past tense of spit. 
spats; spatted; spatting. Learner's definition of SPAT. [no object] somewhat old-fashioned. : to argue or fight: to have a spat. They were typical sisters, spatting one minute, playing together the next. 
The countess, with a cheerful expression on her face, looked down at her nails and spat a little for luck as she returned to the drawing room. War and Peace by Tolstoy, Leo View in context. he hissed, and struck the master of fence a stinging blow across the face, and spat upon him. 
spat noun (SHOE). › [C usually plural] a ​piece of ​cloth or ​leather ​covering the ​ankle and ​part of the ​shoe and ​fastening on the ​side, ​worn in the past by men. (Definition of spat from the Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press). 
spat. 1. A discussion, often heated, in which a difference of opinion is expressed: altercation, argument, bicker, clash, contention, controversy, debate, difficulty, disagreement, dispute, fight, polemic, quarrel, run-in, squabble, tiff, word (used in plural), wrangle. spat 1. v. A past tense and a past participle of spit 1. n. pl. spat or spats. A larva of an oyster or similar bivalve that has settled by attaching to a surfac
spat. 1. A discussion, often heated, in which a difference of opinion is expressed: altercation, argument, bicker, clash, contention, controversy, debate, difficulty, disagreement, dispute, fight, polemic, quarrel, run-in, squabble, tiff, word (used in plural), wrangle. 