Licensure is available for both clinical and counseling psychologists in all states, and they work in similar settings. Around 35% of clinical psychologists and 21% of counseling psychologists work in private practices. About 21% of clinical psychologists and 34% of counseling psychologists work in academia. Learn about the Counseling Psychologist career. Living is a paradox. It involves happiness and sadness, joy and suffering, success and hardship. Not any person from any culture, country, or economic class can escape this dilemma-what many refer to as the human condition.
Counseling psychology as a psychological specialty facilitates personal and interpersonal functioning across the life span with a focus on emotional, social, vocational, educational, health-related, developmental, and organizational concerns. 
Counseling psychology is a general practice and health service provider specialty in professional psychology. It focuses on how people function both personally and in their relationships at all ages. Counseling psychologists help people with physical, emotional and mental health issues improve their sense of well‐being, alleviate feelings of distress and resolve crises.
Counseling Psychology is a specialty within professional psychology that maintains a focus on facilitating personal and interpersonal functioning across the life span. The specialty pays particular attention to emotional, social, vocational, educational, health-related, developmental, and organizational concerns. The practice of Counseling Psychology encompasses a broad range of culturally-sensitive practices that help people improve their well-being, alleviate distress and maladjustment, resolve crises, and increase their ability to function better in their lives.
Counseling psychology is a type of applied psychology that can be used to help people gain control of their feelings. This type of psychology focuses on treating individuals with a variety of different emotional, behavioral, and social problems or disorders. In general, a psychologist will try to treat patients with a variety of different problems, including depression and anxiety. Those looking to pursue counseling psychology careers, however, can also choose to specialize in certain areas, like grief counseling or vocational stress.
The curriculum requirements to become a counseling psychologist are typically very similar from one university to the next. In addition to learning the fundamentals of psychology and research methods, future counseling psychologists will also often learn about different therapy and counseling techniques. In general, a psychologist will try to treat patients with a variety of different problems, including depression and anxiety. Those looking to pursue counseling psychology careers, however, can also choose to specialize in certain areas, like grief counseling or vocational stress.
(November 2008). Counseling psychology is a psychological specialty that encompasses research and applied work in several broad domains: counseling process and outcome; supervision and training; career development and counseling; and prevention and health. In the U.S., counseling psychology programs are accredited by the American Psychological Association (APA), while counseling programs are accredited through The Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs (CACREP).
To become licensed as a counseling psychologist, one must meet the criteria of a psychologist's licence (4–7 year doctoral degree and one-year full-time internship, including 3,000 hours of supervised experience and exams). In the U.S., counseling psychology programs are accredited by the American Psychological Association (APA), while counseling programs are accredited through The Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs (CACREP).
Counseling psychology focuses on teaching patients of all ages how to cope with emotional, physical and mental health issues. Counseling psychology focuses on teaching patients of all ages how to cope with emotional, physical and mental health issues. Due to the broad nature of this specialty, counseling psychologists are best suited to serve the needs of those suffering mild symptoms and may collaborate with other mental health professionals to treat patients with exclusive or extremely severe conditions.