Tags: Medicare foot care policy, diabetic foot care, routine foot care, toenail trimming covered by medicare, callus trimming covered by medicare, nail care by p. As one can see, there are options for Medicare enrollees to have their toenails cared for by a podiatrist. Unfortunately, the restrictions that follow this care are extensive, and limit the option for medical trimming of toenails to only those with the greatest of risk for complications.
Debridement of Toenails Nail debridement involves the significant reduction in the thickness and length of the nail to the tolerance of the patient with the aim of allowing the patient to ambulate without pain. Simple trimming of the end of the toenails by cutting or grinding is not considered debridement. Medicare coverage of toenail debridement is limited to two situations:  Debridement of hypertrophic nails associated with systemic conditions, and  Mycotic nails in the absence of systemic conditions. 1. Coverage or exclusion from coverage of foot care is determined by the nature of the service and is independent of whether performed by a podiatrist, osteopath, or a doctor of medicine, and without regard to the difficulty or complexity of the procedure. Routine Foot Care 1.
If you have any questions concerning Medicare coverage please consult your podiatrist or contact Medicare at: 1­800­Medicare (1­800­633­4227). Non­Covered Foot Care The cutting of toenails in a healthy person or when they are not painful is not a payable service by Medicare. The cutting of corns and calluses in a healthy person is not a payable service by Medicare. Legally, your podiatrist cannot try to obtain Medicare payment for non­covered foot care. Painful Thickened Nails A fungal infection or toenail deformity may present as thickening and discoloration of toenails. If the toenails become painful or limit ambulation, and require reduction of the thickness and length, then this service may be covered
Hit the enter key to be taken to any highlighted matches. 1  Does Medicare cover routine foot care? 2  What kinds of services does Medicare regard as routine foot care? 3  What is a systemic disease? 4  How often will Medicare pay for nail trimming? 5  I live by myself and cannot see very well. 6  What kinds of doctors can perform foot care? Services considered routine foot care include: 1  The cutting or removal of corns or calluses. 2  The trimming, cutting, or clipping of nails. 3  The debridement of nails. 4  Cleaning and soaking the feet. 5  The use of creams to maintain skin tone. 6  Any service performed when there is not an illness, injury, or symptom involv
A. Maybe, but it depends on the circumstances. Medicare doesn’t normally cover nail clipping or any kind of routine foot care. You’re correct that diabetes mellitus is one of the medical conditions that may justify coverage—but only if: Javascript is not enabled. Javascript must be enabled to use this site. Please enable Javascript in your browser and try again. Screen Your Hearing By Telephone. Free for AARP Members for a limited time.
Medicare Part B covers the services of a podiatrist (foot doctor) for medically necessary treatment of injuries or diseases of the foot (such as hammer toe, bunion deformities and heel spurs). The majority of people we see do not have conditions that warrant Medicare coverage. If Medicare might cover foot care, our nurses would recommend you see a Podiatrist who bills Medicare. Some people pay a deductible to their Podiatrist which is higher than our base price.
Medicare does not cover trimming of corns, calluses, toenails and other preventative. maintenance unless you have other serious medical condition which require preventative care. by your podiatrist because of reduced blood circulation or reduced sensation In your feet. The. 
Medicare generally does not cover routine foot care. However, foot care services may be billed to Medicare if you are actively treated by a doctor for a medical condition affecting circulation of the legs or feet. The majority of people we see do not have conditions that warrant Medicare coverage. If Medicare might cover foot care, our nurses would recommend you see a Podiatrist who bills Medicare. Some people pay a deductible to their Podiatrist which is higher than our base price.
The bottom line: To get Medicare coverage for foot care, you need your doctor or podiatrist to provide evidence as to why it is medically necessary. Patricia Barry is a senior editor at the AARP Bulletin. Javascript is not enabled. Javascript must be enabled to use this site. Please enable Javascript in your browser and try again. Screen Your Hearing By Telephone. Free for AARP Members for a limited time.
In most cases, Medicare does not cover routine foot care, such as trimming nails or removing calluses. However, Medicare may cover routine foot care when: 1  The services would be unsafe if someone other than a doctor performs them because you have a serious medical condition affecting your whole body (such as diabetes). Services considered routine foot care include: 1  The cutting or removal of corns or calluses. 2  The trimming, cutting, or clipping of nails. 3  The debridement of nails. 4  Cleaning and soaking the feet. 5  The use of creams to maintain skin tone. 6  Any service performed when there is not an illness, injury, or symptom involv