The interior of eukaryotic cells is generally divided into many specialized compartments by internal membranes (membranes separate from the plasma membrane) and membrane-bound organelles (organelles completely surrounded by membranes). Usually, prokaryotic cells lack internal membranes and membrane-bound organelles. In addition, the DNA of eukaryotic cells is enclosed within a membrane-bound nucleus, while the DNA of prokaryotic cells is located in the cytoplasm. During this lab, you will use the brightfield microscope to examine and compare the features of several types of prokaryotic cells, and several types of eukaryotic cells. Indicate which type(s) of cells each of the following characteristics applies to by writing P for prokaryotic cells only, E for eukaryotic cells only, B for both, or N for neither.
Prokaryotic Cells. Bacteria are examples of the prokaryotic cell type. An example is E. coli. In general, prokaryotic cells are those that do not have a membrane-bound nucleus. In fact pro-karyotic is Greek for before nucleus. Besides bacteria, the cyanobacteria (blue-green algae) are a major group of prokaryotes. All living things are composed of cells which are classified as either prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells. The different cell types have many things in common. Enger & Ross's perspective of the common characteristics lists: 1  Cell membranes. 2  Cytoplasm. 3  Genetic material.
3D animation of a prokaryotic cell that shows all the elements that compose it. A prokaryote is a single-celled organism that lacks a membrane-bound nucleus (karyon), mitochondria, or any other membrane-bound organelle. The word prokaryote comes from the Greek πρό- (pro -) before and καρυόν (karyon)  nut or kernel . Another difference is that ribosomes in prokaryotes are smaller than in eukaryotes. However, two organelles found in many eukaryotic cells, mitochondria and chloroplasts, contain ribosomes similar in size and makeup to those found in prokaryotes. This is one of many pieces of evidence that mitochondria and chloroplasts are themselves descended from free-living bacteria
Cell division in prokaryotic cell and eukaryotic cell is also different. In prokaryotic cell, the cell divided by binary diffusion and prokaryotic cell are haploid. In eukaryotic cell, cell division follows process of mitosis; haploid sex cells in diploid. 1 Nucleoid: analog to nucleolus of eukaryotes, nucleoid contains DNA, genetic material of the cell, but it is not enclosed by any membrane. 2  Chromosomes: contains genetic information. 3  Chromosomes make up nucleoid. 4  Prokaryotic cells
Eukaryotic cells are typically much larger than those of prokaryotes. They have a variety of internal membrane-bound structures, called organelles, and a cytoskeleton composed of microtubules, microfilaments, and intermediate filaments, which play an important role in defining the cell's organization and shape. Animal cells are distinct from other eukaryotes, most notably plant cells, as they lack cell walls and chloroplasts. They also have smaller vacuoles. Due to the lack of a cell wall, animal cells can adopt a variety of shapes.
The presence of a nucleus gives eukaryotes their name, which comes from the Greek ευ (eu, well) and κάρυον (karyon, nut or kernel). Eukaryotic cells also contain other membrane-bound organelles such as mitochondria and the Golgi apparatus. In addition, plants and algae contain chloroplasts. Eukaryotic organisms may be unicellular, or multicellular. Only eukaryotes have many kinds of tissue made up of different cell types. Animal cells are distinct from other eukaryotes, most notably plant cells, as they lack cell walls and chloroplasts. They also have smaller vacuoles. Due to the lack of a cell wall, animal cells can adopt a variety of shapes.
The two other domains, Bacteria and Archaea, are prokaryotes and have none of the above features. Eukaryotes represent a tiny minority of all living things; even the cells in a human's body are outnumbered ten to one by bacteria in the gut. Animal cells are distinct from other eukaryotes, most notably plant cells, as they lack cell walls and chloroplasts. They also have smaller vacuoles. Due to the lack of a cell wall, animal cells can adopt a variety of shapes.
Eukaryotes are organisms, including humans, whose cells have a well defined membrane-bound nucleus (containing chromosomal DNA) and organelles. The division between prokaryotes and eukaryotes reflects the existence of two very different levels of cellular organization. Another difference is that ribosomes in prokaryotes are smaller than in eukaryotes. However, two organelles found in many eukaryotic cells, mitochondria and chloroplasts, contain ribosomes similar in size and makeup to those found in prokaryotes. This is one of many pieces of evidence that mitochondria and chloroplasts are themselves descended from free-living bacteria
The distinction is that eukaryotic cells have a true nucleus containing their DNA, whereas prokaryotic cells do not have a nucleus. Both eukaryotes and prokaryotes contain large RNA / protein structures called ribosomes, which produce protein. Another difference is that ribosomes in prokaryotes are smaller than in eukaryotes. However, two organelles found in many eukaryotic cells, mitochondria and chloroplasts, contain ribosomes similar in size and makeup to those found in prokaryotes. This is one of many pieces of evidence that mitochondria and chloroplasts are themselves descended from free-living bacteria