Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Generally, you do not want to keep mushrooms for longer than a week. However, the general method of checking that your mushrooms are still fresh is to feel them. If they feel slimy or look darker than normal, it is time to throw them away. I would say about the same if they are stored in their original container or package. If you use a Green Bag, I have kept them as long as three weeks-I'm absolutely serious. If you do not have a Green Bag, a muslin bag or cloth will work nearly as well.
How to store Mushrooms to extend their shelf life? To extend their shelf life it is best to store them whole and un-peeled in a sealed plastic bag in the fridge. For a longer term option, mushrooms may be frozen for 6-8 months, but they should be cooked first and placed in freezer safe containers. *An important note about expiration dates... Although the Mushrooms shelf life information on Eat By Date is generally reliable, please remember that individual cases will vary and that our advice should only be taken as an opinion and not a replacement for your health care professional.
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. 11 people found this useful. Yogurt doesn't last that long but it does in the fridge! Even if it has expired by 2 days you can still eat it(if it's been in the fridge all the time)! Yogurt usually lasts b … etween 1-2 weeks. as long as the expiration date says. 4 people found this useful.
The shelf life of mushrooms, like most other fresh vegetables may not have a sell by date, use by date, or best before date so you have to go with purchase date in most cases. *An important note about expiration dates... Although the Mushrooms shelf life information on Eat By Date is generally reliable, please remember that individual cases will vary and that our advice should only be taken as an opinion and not a replacement for your health care professional.
Tips. 1  To extend shelf life, refrigerate fresh mushrooms in a paper bag; do not wrap in plastic or store in airtight container, as this will speed spoilage. 
Report Abuse. about week, mushrooms must be stored in a brown paper bag in the crisper of you fridge..because mushrooms are 90% water they sweat inside a plastic bag and become watery.. I would say about the same if they are stored in their original container or package. If you use a Green Bag, I have kept them as long as three weeks-I'm absolutely serious. If you do not have a Green Bag, a muslin bag or cloth will work nearly as well.
There is no clear consensus. The conservative answer is that mushrooms should be eaten within two days of purchase. However, some experts maintain mushrooms will keep for up to a week after purchase, particularly if stored in cool, dry, and dark places. Pre-slicing mushrooms can shorten their shelf life. Once sliced, mushrooms quickly oxidate. 
Nine to 10 Days From Packaging Date. According to Mountain View Mushrooms, fresh mushrooms can be stored at 34 to 40 degrees F for up to 10 days from the date of packaging. If purchasing store-bought mushrooms, the packaging date will be printed on the storage container or plastic wrap. Artem Kononenko/Demand Media
Melons do not last long once they become ripe. A whole uncut melon will stay good for 5 to 7 days. If the melon is cut it will last only 3 days. Yogurt doesn't last that long but it does in the fridge! Even if it has expired by 2 days you can still eat it(if it's been in the fridge all the time)! Yogurt usually lasts b … etween 1-2 weeks. as long as the expiration date says. 4 people found this useful.