In many states, Harrah's cocktail waitresses don't get paid state  minimum wage. They are often paid about $2.00 hourly but make more  with tips. An average cocktail waitres … s can make up to $200 per  shift in tips. Bartenders in Vegas can make up to $7-$15 wage plus $10-$50 in tips per hour. But that totally depends on personality, gender and outlet. A hot young female can make $1000 a d … ay tending bar in a strip club, but that is very exceptional.
The median salary for a cocktail waitress in the United States is $15,261 per year, according to national data. This number can vary greatly, however, depending on location, type of venue, and benefits offered. According to the Fair Labor Standards Act, an employer can consider tips as part of wages, but the employer must pay at least $2.13 an hour in direct wages. Some cocktail waitresses are offered a base hourly wage that is higher.
Report Abuse. Cocktail waitresses do not get paid $7 an hour, I wish we would. It's more like $4 or $5 an hour. That is about $30 to $35 a night (full time). The reason cocktail waitresses get paid so little is because they usually make up the money in tips. On a really good night you can make up to $100 in tips. On a bad night $20.
Best Answer: Hello, OK The waitress in the Union Hotels make 10.75 an hour Salary in the Union Hotels. As far as making bank, the ones in the pit area, or the ones in the High limit area do make a good tips. However, the more you make the more you are taxes. All tip position in the casinos are taxed by the IRS on top of their salary. Most are taxed about 7 $ per hour more than then normal tax on their salary. How do i know this I work in the casino industry for 15 years.
· just now. Report Abuse. It depends on where you work, what area (casino floor, lounge, club, pool, etc.) and what hours. Cocktail waitresses in the hottest nightclubs in Vegas make $800 to $1500 per night in tips...on top of the wages. However, there is some stiff competition for those spots. You need to be young, hot, and experienced for sure. However, the more you make the more you are taxes. All tip position in the casinos are taxed by the IRS on top of their salary. Most are taxed about 7 $ per hour more than then normal tax on their salary. How do i know this I work in the casino industry for 15 years.
For many people, getting a job in casino is a prime goal. Casinos are stable places of employment. Casino companies hire many employees for entry-level jobs and are known for hiring from within for jobs higher up the ladder.Cocktail waitress jobs that pay $100,000 can be found in casinos! Cocktail servers can make several hundred dollars each shift in tips! Many servers make over $50 an hour in tokes. That means many cocktail waitresses in casinos are making six figures. A $100,000 a year job that requires no college background and may be an entry-level position is hard to find. Of course there are plenty of servers who find the take home pay to be considerably less.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Cocktail Server-Casino in the United States is $17,203, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Cocktail Server-Casino in the United States are expected to make less than $17,203. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. 3  Benefits. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Cocktail Server-Casino are expected to make less than the median.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. In many states, Harrah's cocktail waitresses don't get paid state minimum wage. They are often paid about $2.00 hourly but make more with tips. An average cocktail waitress can make up to $200 per shift in tips. Bartenders tend to make slightly more an hour, closer to $5.00, but they typically make more in tips then waiters/waitresses as well. Most waiters/waitresses can make $200-$500/week obviously depending on how many shifts they work, etc.
Just like the dealers, cocktail waitresses are paid minimum wage by the casinos and make their livelihood from tips. The standard tip is $1 per drink, but even $1 every other drink still means nearly $40,000/yr. in earnings for a waitress, even after their 20% tip-out to the bartender, so that's what I tip. All dealers make minimum wage, or barely more, for their salary, even at the best casinos in town. Don't think that their tips are gravy on top of their salary -- for dealers the tips pretty much are their salary. And they pay taxes on those tips, just like the cocktail waitresses.