Aphthous stomatitis is also called canker sores. They are one or a cluster of small pits or ulcers in the cheeks, gums, the inside of the lips, or on the tongue. This is also much more common in young people, most often between 10 and 19 years old. This can be in the cheeks, gums, inside of the lips, or on the tongue. There are two main forms of stomatitis: herpes stomatitis and aphthous stomatitis. Both forms usually occur more often in children and teens. Herpes stomatitis is an infection, usually in young children between the ages of six months and 5 years.
Background. Aphthous stomatitis, or recurrent aphthous ulcers (RAUs) or canker sores, are among the most common oral mucosal lesions physicians and dentists observe. Recurrent aphthous ulcer is a disorder of unknown etiology that can cause clinically significant morbidity. 
Called also perleche. perlèche aphthous stomatitis recurrent aphthous. stomatitis denture stomatitis inflammation of the oral mucosa seen in some patients with new dentures or with, old-ill fitting, ones caused By candida; albicans characterized by, redness, swelling and pain of mucosa that is in contact with the. denture aphthous stomatitis recurrent aphthous stomatitis. denture stomatitis inflammation of the oral mucosa seen in some patients with new dentures or with old, ill-fitting ones, caused by Candida albicans; characterized by redness, swelling, and pain of mucosa that is in contact with the denture.
Aphthous Stomatitis (Canker Sores). Aphthous stomatitis is an illness that causes small ulcers to appear in the mouth, usually inside the lips, on the cheeks, or on the tongue. However, each child may experience symptoms differently. Signs and symptoms may include: Ulcers in the mouth, usually inside the lips, on the cheeks, or on the tongue. Ulcers that are covered with a yellow layer and have a red base.
Aphthous stomatitis (also termed recurrent aphthous stomatitis, recurring oral aphthae or recurrent aphthous ulceration; from Greek: ἄφθα aphtha, mouth ulcer) is a common condition characterized by the repeated formation of benign and non-contagious mouth ulcers (aphthae) in otherwise healthy individuals. Aphthous stomatitis is uncommon in people who smoke, and there is also a correlation between habit duration and severity of the condition. and Tobacco use is associated with an increase in keratinization of the oral mucosa. In extreme forms, this may manifest as leukoplakia or stomatitis nicotina (smoker's keratosis).
Types of Stomatitis. Types of stomatitis include: 1  Canker sore: A canker sore, also known as an aphthous ulcer, is a single pale or yellow ulcer with a red outer ring or a cluster of such ulcers in the mouth, usually on the cheeks, tongue, or inside the lip. 2  Cold sores: Also called fever blisters, cold sores are fluid-filled sores that occur on or around the lips. 3  Mouth 1 Canker sore: A canker sore, also known as an aphthous ulcer, is a single pale or yellow ulcer with a red outer ring or a cluster of such ulcers in the mouth, usually on the cheeks, tongue, or inside the lip.
Medical Definition of APHTHOUS STOMATITIS. : a very common disorder of the oral mucosa that is characterized by the formation of canker sores on movable mucous membranes and that has a multiple etiology but is not caused by the virus causing herpes simplex. 
Stomatitis is a sore or inflammation in the mouth. This can be in the cheeks, gums, inside of the lips, or on the tongue. There are two main forms of stomatitis: herpes stomatitis and aphthous stomatitis. Both forms usually occur more often in children and teens. Herpes stomatitis is an infection, usually in young children between the ages of six months and 5 years.