T-cell immunodeficiency, congenital alopecia, and nail dystrophy is a type of severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID), which is a group of disorders characterized by an almost total lack of immune protection from foreign invaders such as bacteria and viruses. T-cell immunodeficiency, congenital alopecia, and nail dystrophy is a rare disorder. It has been diagnosed in only a few individuals, almost all of whom are members of a large extended family from a community in southern Italy.
Dystrophy in itself is a condition that can affect any part of the body and is usually a result of inadequate nutrition. However, nail dystrophy is a condition where the nail is severely damaged either due to a traumatic accident or fungal infection. In nail dystrophy, the nail loses its shape or gets partially or completely destroyed. 1 Causes and Treatment For Preventing Psoriatic Nail Dystrophy. 2  Nail dystrophy is damage caused to the nail due to trauma or a disease. 3  It is characterized by parti... 4  Genetic Treatment Methods And Protocols Of Muscular Dystrophy. 5  Muscular dystrophy is progressive weakening of muscle due to some genetic reasons.
Onychomycosis (fungal infection) is a very common cause of nail dystrophy. The great toenail, in particular, seems prone to infection. [1] Fungal nail infection presents as nails that are thickened, Brittle, crumbly or ragged, distorted and dull, and dark in color. This dark color can occur from debris under the nail. Nail dystrophy is defined as the presence of misshapen or partially destroyed nail plates. Soft, yellow keratin often accumulates between the dystrophic nail plate and nail bed, resulting in elevation of the nail plate.
T-cell immunodeficiency, congenital alopecia, and nail dystrophy also affects growth of the hair and nails. Congenital alopecia refers to an absence of hair that is apparent from birth. Affected individuals have no scalp hair, eyebrows, or eyelashes. T-cell immunodeficiency, congenital alopecia, and nail dystrophy is a rare disorder. It has been diagnosed in only a few individuals, almost all of whom are members of a large extended family from a community in southern Italy.
1 Nail dystrophy is damage caused to the nail due to trauma or a disease. 2  It is characterized by parti... 3  Genetic Treatment Methods And Protocols Of Muscular Dystrophy. 4  Muscular dystrophy is progressive weakening of muscle due to some genetic reasons. 1 Causes and Treatment For Preventing Psoriatic Nail Dystrophy. 2  Nail dystrophy is damage caused to the nail due to trauma or a disease. 3  It is characterized by parti... 4  Genetic Treatment Methods And Protocols Of Muscular Dystrophy. 5
Overview. Twenty-nail dystrophy is a condition that affects the nails of the fingers and toes. The surface of all twenty nails develop ridges, splitting, and roughening (similar to sandpaper). The nails may also be dull and brittle. This condition most commonly occurs in childhood, but it can occur at any age. 
Basics. Dystrophy (bad formation) of the nail usually results from damage to the nail as a result of trauma or specific disease. Nail dystrophy is defined as the presence of misshapen or partially destroyed nail plates. Soft, yellow keratin often accumulates between the dystrophic nail plate and nail bed, resulting in elevation of the nail plate.
Median nail dystrophy is a condition of the nail, it is characterized as split or crack at the midline of the nail, which generally resembles a fir tree. Common symptoms reported by people with Median Nail Dystrophy. 
As a once-a-day, water resistant treatment, Nuvail is an ideal solution for nail dystrophy that keeps your nails strong with a protective layer that alleviates fingernails and toenails from the risk of becoming brittle or cracked. Without proper and prompt treatment, the symptoms of nail dystrophy can worsen over time. If you are experiencing nail friction, splitting, and/or fragility with your fingernails and/or toenails, then you may be one of the millions of people experiencing nail dystrophy.
Brittle Nail Syndrome is the most common form of nail dystrophy, and is twice as likely to affect women. In the case of Brittle Nail Syndrome, fingernails and/or toenails become fragile, making them susceptible to splitting and cracking. Without proper and prompt treatment, the symptoms of nail dystrophy can worsen over time. If you are experiencing nail friction, splitting, and/or fragility with your fingernails and/or toenails, then you may be one of the millions of people experiencing nail dystrophy.