Tofino's History. Tofino is located in a geographical region called Clayoquot Sound, comprising about 400,000 hectares of land and marine inlets, all draining into a central marine catchment area.
The village of Tofino is a tranquil community with a population under 2000 people, located on the Esowista Peninsula on the West Coast of Vancouver Island, British Columbia. Long Beach Lodge Resort is located just 7km south of the town of Tofino and literally just steps from the open Pacific Ocean and Cox Bay beach – one of the finest beaches on the West Coast. The Tofino area is a paradise for those who love the sea.
The settlement of Tofino first acquired the name in 1909 with the opening of the Tofino Post Office, named in association with Tofino Inlet nearby. Nearly all of the precipitation that falls throughout the course of a year is rain with 203 days with rain and only 9.8 days with snowfall. However, this is only average; the median snow amount is 0, meaning most years do not receive any at all, making it the least snowy town in Canada.
Ucluelet is located at the western edge of Barkley Sound, 288 kilometres northwest of the British Columbia provincial capital, Victoria, on the outer west coast of Vancouver Island. Ucluelet /juːˈkluːlɨt/ is a district municipality (population about 1,627) on the Ucluelet Peninsula on the west coast of Vancouver Island in British Columbia, Canada. Ucluelet means people of the safe harbour in the indigenous Nuu-chah-nulth (Nootka) language.
Culture & History. Tofino is a world-renowned resort, but a very recent arrival on the world stage. Thousands of years before it was named after a rear admiral in the Spanish Navy, the people of the Nuu-chah-nulth First Nations lived and worked here. They've occupied the west coast of Vancouver Island for as long as 10,000 years.
Population: 1,906. Location: Literally at the end of the road, Tofino is located on the west coast of Vancouver Island, accessed via Highway 4 from Parksville, 26 miles (42 kms) north of Ucluelet and 81 miles (130 kms) west of Port Alberni. Driving time from Victoria is approximately 4 to 5 hours. 
(June 2014). Tofino is a district of about 1,876 residents on the west coast of Vancouver Island, in British Columbia, Canada, located at the western terminus of Highway 4, on the tip of the Esowista Peninsula, at the southern edge of Clayoquot Sound. Nearly all of the precipitation that falls throughout the course of a year is rain with 203 days with rain and only 9.8 days with snowfall. However, this is only average; the median snow amount is 0, meaning most years do not receive any at all, making it the least snowy town in Canada.
Tofino is located in a geographical region called Clayoquot Sound, comprising about 400,000 hectares of land and marine inlets, all draining into a central marine catchment area. The Nuu-chah-nulth First Nations have made Clayoquot Sound their home for several thousand years. Until this time, the outpost called Clayoquot was the main European settlement in the area. Located on Stubbs Island, about 1.5 km across the water from the current site of Tofino, Clayoquot had been a fur trading post on and off since the late 1850s.
Accordingly, Tofino became the official western terminus of the Trans Canada Highway, as evidenced by the official sign at the First Street dock. In 1993 Tofino and Clayoquot Sound found themselves in the limelight, both nationally and internationally. Until this time, the outpost called Clayoquot was the main European settlement in the area. Located on Stubbs Island, about 1.5 km across the water from the current site of Tofino, Clayoquot had been a fur trading post on and off since the late 1850s.