Staph and salmonella are commonly found on the kitchen floor. Salmonella is especially common, because of the likelihood of raw meat in the kitchen. An antibacterial kitchen s … pray such as Lysol is necessary to destroy kitchen bacteria.
Staph and salmonella are commonly found on the kitchen floor. Salmonella is especially common, because of the likelihood of raw meat in the kitchen. An antibacterial kitchen spray such as Lysol is necessary to destroy kitchen bacteria.
Bacteria found on toilets consisted mostly of species found in the human gut — this indicates fecal contamination of these surfaces, Fierer said. Floor surfaces contained bacteria commonly found in soils, and surfaces touched by hands, such as faucets and countertops, contained bacteria commonly found on human skin.
Carpet Bacteria Types. The average amount of bacteria found in a homeowner’s carpet is 200,000 organisms per square inch. This amount is 4,000 times more than that found on an average homeowner’s toilet seat! Vacuuming alone is not effective in removing the skin cells, food particles, and pollen that these bacteria feed on.
While it is true that you will not find a surface without bacteria on it, the majority of bacteria that you’ll find are common, non-dangerous species. Studies have shown that of the bacteria found in indoor air, the most common four are: Micrococcus, Staphylococcus, Bacillus, and Pseudomonas.
Confidence votes 261K. Staph and salmonella are commonly found on the kitchen floor. Salmonella is especially common, because of the likelihood of raw meat in the kitchen. An antibacterial kitchen spray such as Lysol is necessary to destroy kitchen bacteria.
Out of 32 places in the home, the top spots for bacteria are the toilet bowl, kitchen drain, kitchen sponge or counter-wiping cloth, bathtub, and kitchen sink., according to a new study.
Bacteria are a type of microbe, or organism so small that it can only be seen with the use of a microscope. Microbes are diverse and include organisms from each of the three domains of life: Prokaryotes (bacteria), Archaea, and Eukaryotes (including protists such as diatoms, ciliates, and dinoflagellates).