If a corporation does not receive its acceptance letter after 60 days have passed since filing Form 2553, or if the company lost its acceptance letter, the IRS requests that authorized company representatives call the Internal Revenue Service's Business and Specialty Tax Line at 800-829-4933. Initial Filing. To receive an initial S-corporation acceptance letter, a company must first organize and register its business as a corporation in accordance with the rules of its state.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Most schools take about a week to 2 weeks, if they aren't on rolling admissions.. Rolling admissions is when the college has a set date to finish all applications, and the person will usually get a letter around April. 
Answers. Best Answer: It all depends on whether or not the school has rolling admissions. If they have rolling admissions (this means that although there is a set deadline, they are making decisions on applications as they receive them), you should expect an decision letter within a month or month-and-a-half. 1 You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB. 2  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB. 3  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm). 4  You can only upload a photo or a video.
0. Feb 9, '10 by Boog'sCRRN246. My school sends out acceptance/rejection letters all at once, so it's up to the USPS as to how long it will take for it to arrive. The application period is March 1-31, with letters being sent out sometime in May. # 1 4. If your application was due Feb 1st, be prepared to wait awhile, when I was applying to schools it generally took about 3-5 months to get a letter back from them, depending on the school and how many applications they have to sort through. Some schools will post on their site on when to expect notices to go out.
If they don't have rolling admissions (this means they also have a set deadline, but they don't review applications continually. They simply wait until all applications are received, and then make a decision at once), you should expect a decision by mid-march, early April. Source(s): pfasoro · 8 years ago. 1 You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB. 2  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB. 3  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm). 4  You can only upload a photo or a video.
You will usually get a college acceptance letter within six to eight weeks from submitting your application. It depends on the college you are going to and how competitive it is to get in. I believe they divide their application piles into: yes, maybe, no. And those who are rejected receive their letters first.
How long would it take to get my acceptance letter? I applied to my college online not too long ago but i already know im going to get accepted not in a cocky sense. 