The actual work of a pirate and a privateer is generally the same (raiding and plundering ships); it is, therefore, the authorization and perceived legality of the actions that form the distinction. Privateers were a large part of the total military force at sea during the 17th and 18th centuries. In the first Anglo-Dutch War, English privateers attacked the trade on which the United Provinces entirely depended, capturing over 1,000 Dutch merchant ships.
A privateer (sometimes called corsair or buccaneer) was a private person or ship authorized by a government by letters of marque to attack foreign vessels during wartime. Privateering was a way of mobilizing armed ships and sailors without having vessels be commissioned into regular service as warships. The crew of a privateer might be treated as prisoners of war by the enemy country if captured. Privateers were a large part of the total military force at sea during the 17th and 18th centuries. In the first Anglo-Dutch War, English privateers attacked the trade on which the United Provinces entirely depended, capturing over 1,000 Dutch merchant ships.
1 A Brief History of the U.S. Navy Armed Guard The U.S. Navy Armed Guard was most active during World War II. 2  It was charged with protecting American and Allied merchant ships. 3  In order to fully comprehend what the Armed …. Share to: 1 
Privateer: A privately owned and manned armed ship commissioned by a belligerent govern-ment to attack and capture enemy ships, especially merchant ships. Also individuals-command-er or crew member of a privateer vessel was call a privateer. 
Corsaire is the the term used by the French for what in English is a privateer. (Not to be confused with Corsair, a North African pirate/privateer). Th Spanish called the Corsario. Filibuster were the French pirates (or privateers) in the Caribbean who attacked mainly Spanish ships, towns or property. Filibuseters ofent worked hand in hand with the buccaneers in the last half of the 17th century. Most of the time, Privateers were engaged of act of reprisals against other nations, that is engaged in acts of war. A key distinction between a Merchant and Privateer, is the privateer was not paid by the nation or company but paid by taking spoils from ships or properties they attacked or fought off.
Privateers were ships that were privately owned and commisioned by a government to make reprisals, gain reparation to the crown for specific offenses in time of peace, or to prey upon the enemy in time time of war. In short, a privateer was a private warship. 
179 pages on this wiki. A privateer is a private person or ship authorized by a government by letters of marque to attack foreign shipping during wartime. Privateering was a way of mobilizing armed ships and sailors without having to spend treasury resources or commit naval officers