Phase 2 Environmental Studies, also known as: Phase 2 Environmental Surveys or Audits, are usually done when they are recommended in a Phase I Environmental Site Assessment report. Click the link below to learn more about Phase I Environmental reports. Please feel free to contact us for any questions regarding your needs for a Phase 2 Environmental Site Assessment report at our toll free phone number. One of our professional geologists will be happy to assist you with your project.
1 A Phase II ESA normally is performed when the Phase I ESA identifies Recognized Environmental Conditions (RECs) and/or recommends further investigation. 2  The standard practice for Phase II ESAs is ASTM E1903-11. 1 The standard practice for Phase II ESAs is ASTM E1903-11. 2  Unlike the Phase I ESA AAI rule, the Phase II is not a rule, but a standard of practice for performing the assessment. 3  The standard of the Phase II ESA is typically defined by the scope proposed by the Environmental Professional and accepted by the client
We discuss some key factors that influence the cost and price of any Phase I Environmental Site Assessment, regardless of where and who prepares the report for you. We get a lot of calls from new and old clients asking how much a Phase I ESA costs. Those who do it infrequently will possibly adjust the cost upwards to make up for unplanned contingencies. Unnecessary Phase II ESA-We see this all the time. Many in the environmental business will do this type of work for a very cheap price.
Our Phase 1 Environmental report is in general compliance with the American Society for Testing & Materials E-1527-13 standard, which complies with United States Environmental Protection Agency 40 Code of Federal Regulations Part 312. When a REC is found in the Phase 1 Environmental Assessment, it will typically trigger a Phase 2 Study, which requires soil and/or groundwater sampling to determine if there is a significant environmental liability in the subsurface.
Phase 2 Environmental. Phase 2 Environmental Site Assessment reports are sometimes required when a Recognized Environmental Condition (REC) is found during the Phase 1 Environmental Assessment process. Phase 2 Environmental Assessments consist of collecting soil samples to screen for chemical or metal contamination. Please feel free to contact us for any questions regarding your needs for a Phase 2 Environmental Site Assessment report at our toll free phone number. One of our professional geologists will be happy to assist you with your project.
Phase I costs generally range from $1,000 to $2,500. Phase II costs vary as summarized above. Typically, a Phase II can cost anywhere from $5,000 to well over $100,000. Phase II initial sampling activities (to determine if there is a problem) usually cost around $5,000. T he success of the experience is tied to communication of needs and matching effort to the needs. 
Clinical trials involving new drugs are commonly classified into four phases. Clinical trials of drugs may not fit into a single phase. For example, some may blend from phase I to phase II or from phase II to phase III. Therefore, it may be easier to think of early phase studies and late phase studies. The drug-development process will normally proceed through all four phases over many years.
The cost for a Phase II ESA ranges greatly, depending on the site specific details. The site specifics include: type of lab analyses required, drilling method needed, access to the subsurface, overhead constraints, groundwater testing required, etc. 1 The standard practice for Phase II ESAs is ASTM E1903-11. 2  Unlike the Phase I ESA AAI rule, the Phase II is not a rule, but a standard of practice for performing the assessment. 3  The standard of the Phase II ESA is typically defined by the scope proposed by the Environmental Professional and accepted by the client
On the surface, Phase III trials are much more expensive than Phase II trials. In one study, the average total cost for Phase III trials ($41.7 million) stood four times higher than the average cost for Phase II trials ($10.2 million). But much of those cost differences are the result of the larger patient enrolment required during Phase III. On a per-patient basis, Phase III trials cost only 7% more than Phase II trials, according to interviews for a recent benchmarking study. As oncology products successfully progress through each stage of clinical development, the stakes grow higher and higher.