Currently, the average MELD score for a patient undergoing a liver transplant is 20 nationally. The average MELD score for liver transplant patients in our region varies from 26-33, depending on blood type. The average waiting time for a patient to receive a liver in our region, once a patient is placed on the UNOS waiting list, is 12-36 months. Waiting time is only a factor when patients have the same MELD score. In summary, the priority of an individual patient on the UNOS waiting list for a donor liver depends on the following factors: 1  Local versus distant (donor organs are first offered locally within the Northern California/Bay Area).
When a patient moves to a higher MELD score, the waiting time at the lower level is not carried to the new level. The clock at the new level starts at 0. (Example: Patient has a MELD score of 15 and has been at level 11-18 for 100 days. With new laboratory tests, the patient’s MELD score is 22. Waiting time is only a factor when patients have the same MELD score. In summary, the priority of an individual patient on the UNOS waiting list for a donor liver depends on the following factors: 1  Local versus distant (donor organs are first offered locally within the Northern California/Bay Area).
How will it be used? The Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD) is a numerical scale, rangingfrom 6 (less ill) to 40 (gravely ill), used for liver transplant candidates age12 and older. It gives each person a ‘score’ (number) based on how urgentlyhe or she needs a liver transplant within the next three months. Most candidates will have their MELD score assesseda number of times while they are on the waiting list. This will help ensurethat donated livers go to the patients in greatest need at that moment.MELD has been shown to rank patients on the waiting list reliably in termsof their short-term risk of death.
Players can also request materia melding from other players, providing the materia and catalyst required, as well as a payment in gil if desired. Should the player desire, it is possible to have equipment purged of materia by paying a fee of gil to Mutamix. This process is called Advanced Materia Melding. Upon failure, the materia and the catalyst being used are lost. Success rates for Advanced Materia Melding changes based on the tier of the materia (it is easier to meld two Tier I than it is to meld two Tier IV materia).
I am trying to get someone to meld Materia onto a weapon so I can get my Relic weapon but whenever I right click on someone there is no option saying Request a meld, which is what im being told is how I have to do it. 
Usually when you right click on a crafter, on the pop up window there is a Request Meld option. If the crafter doesn't meet the requirements, the option is simply greyed out, right? 
#6. If you don't want to level another crafting class, find a blacksmith or weaver, right click them, and select request meld. As long as you have the carbonized matter and materia, you can have anyone meld your materia for you without giving them your equipment. There's even an option to tip the crafter. #1. Log in to remove this ad. so i don't want to make a mudane thread but i don't have a FC and i don't know of any XIV chatrooms, i wanted to ask the offical forums but they have crazy posting restrictions. i've got level 20 goldsmith and 20 miner and i wanted to meld materia into my mining gear.
The Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD) is a reliable measure of mortality risk in patients with end-stage liver disease. It is used as a disease severity index to help prioritize allocation of organs for transplant. Mayo Clinic researchers published the original MELD model in 2001. 
Right click request it. Then it just you doing the stuff in the meld window with and extra payment option then hit OK. he/she hits ok, if they agree and boom. You have to haev all the materials on hand that includes the carbin matter but usually the melder would have some. It's pretty simple you find someone who will meld for you. Wait for them to change to apropriate class to do the meld.