Step 3. Divide the distance from the pitching rubber to home plate by the speed of the fastball in feet per second. On a major league ball field this distance is 60 feet 6 inches, or 60.5 feet. For a pitch traveling 139.33 feet per second, you have 60.5/139.33 = 0.434 seconds. Your fastball reaction time is therefore equal to 0.434 seconds.
Report Abuse. To react really you have about .24 of a second the rest of the time is how long it takes for you to start your swing. Any longer and you will definitely be late on it. The good hitters can read it and react in less than 2 tenths of a second. Best Answer: At 95 mph, the ball will travel 60'-6, the distance from the pitcher's plate to home plate, in .43 seconds. Of course, you have to start your swing before that to actually make contact with the ball, so the actual reaction time will depend upon your bat speed. Source(s): PEdad · 7 years ago.
At this speed it takes about four-tenths of a second for the ball to travel the 60 feet, 6 inches from the pitcher's mound to home plate, where the batter, with muscles as tense as coiled springs, like a predatory animal about to pounce, waits for the precise moment to swing at the ball. Baseball is a game played at the edge of biological time, just within the limits of a human's ability to react. Charley Metro: It's a very difficult thing to do, to hit a moving ball at 95 miles an hour in one-tenth of a second!.
It takes less than a half second for a fastball to travel from the pitcher’s hand to home plate. That is all the time you have to react to the pitch. The average person’s reaction time is around 0.75 seconds. This means you must start your swing before the pitcher releases the ball and adjust once the ball has actually been thrown. On a major league ball field this distance is 60 feet 6 inches, or 60.5 feet. For a pitch traveling 139.33 feet per second, you have 60.5/139.33 = 0.434 seconds. Your fastball reaction time is therefore equal to
The horizontal velocity of Bruce’s fastball pitch is 45 m/s at the instant it’s released from his hand. If the horizontal distance from Bruce’s hand to home plate is 17.5 m at the instant of release, how much time does the batter have to react to the pitch and swing the bat? 
In comparing Softball pitching to Baseball pitching, it is the batter s reaction time that has to be determined. For example, at the International and College (and soon to be High School) pitching distance of 43, a batter facing a 60 mph fastball has about 0.42 seconds to react to the pitch. This reaction time is derived from the fact that Distance = Rate times Time. If we assume that the average Softball pitcher releases the ball about 6 feet (yes, superstars like Jenny Finch have a leg stride closer to 7+ feet, but most pitchers do not) from the rubber, the pitching distance equals 37 feet. It takes a 60 mph fastball 0.42 seconds to travel 37 feet.
FASTBALL REACTION TIME. Click on the play ball button, then move your cursor over the part of the screen that shows the baseball field. As soon as you see swing batter, click on your screen as fast as you can. Fastball Reaction Time imitates a 90-mph fastball thrown by a major league pitcher. While this exhibit doesn't test if you could actually hit a fastball, it does test whether you could react in time to hit one. When you see the swing batter screen, a signal in your eye sends a message to a part of your brain that controls your muscles.
If the batter decides to swing, he must start when the ball is approximately 25 to 30 feet in front of the plate. The ball will arrive at the plate about 250 thousandths of a second later -- about the limit of human reaction time. Baseball is a game played at the edge of biological time, just within the limits of a human's ability to react. Charley Metro: It's a very difficult thing to do, to hit a moving ball at 95 miles an hour in one-tenth of a second!.