Biopsy demonstrated sclerotic extramedullary hematopoietic tumor. Myeloproliferative disorder with myelofibrosis is a hematologic condition characterized by marrow fibrosis that suppresses bone marrow hematopoiesis and displaces hematopoietic elements. Extramedullary hematopoiesis (EMH) is a known complication of myeloproliferative disorders, which include chronic myelogenous leukemia, polycythemia vera, essential thrombocytosis, and myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia.
Extramedullary hematopoiesis (EMH) is the proliferation of hematopoietic cells outside of the bone marrow in response to production of too few blood cells to satisfy the body's demand. Congratulations to the 150 individuals and nine resident groups that submitted the most likely diagnosis (extramedullary hematopoiesis) for Diagnosis Please, Case 126.
Abstract. We present the uncommon case of a subcutaneous fascia-based extramedullary plasmacytoma in the leg, which was confirmed by the pathology report and followed up until its remission. We report the differential diagnosis with other more common soft tissue masses. Soft tissue localization elsewhere is extremely uncommon, and other more common types of soft tissue mass are initially suspected. We present a case of soft tissue plasmacytoma in the leg,
extramedullary. situated or occurring outside any of the medullas including the medulla oblongata and the medullary cavities of the bones. extramedullary hematopoiesis. see extramedullary hematopoiesis. 
Extramedullary proliferations of bone marrow elements are infrequently encountered in routine pathology practice. On occasion, they can present diagnostic difficulties when seen in unusual or unanticipated sites. 
Multiple myeloma is a cancer formed by malignant plasma cells. Normal plasma cells are found in the bone marrow and are an important part of the immune system. The immune system is made up of several types of cells that work together to fight infections and other diseases. Lymphocytes (lymph cells) are the main cell type of the immune system. Plasma cells, however, are mainly found in the bone marrow. Bone marrow is the soft tissue inside some hollow bones. In addition to plasma cells, normal bone marrow has cells that make the different normal blood cells.
Indradural lipomas may occur anywhere in the spinal canal. In adults they are most commonly found in the thoracic region, whereas in children the cervical spine appears to be the most common site 3. They usually occur along the dorsal midline of the spinal cord. The spinal cord is flattened ventrally. Mature fatty tissue within the spinal dura can be seen in a number of entities: 1  lipomyelomeningocele: 84%. 2  lipoma of the filum terminale: 12%. 3  intradural lipoma: 4% 1.
During the course of their disease, multiple myeloma patients some足times develop what physicians call either extram足edullary disease, extra足medullary plasmacytomas, or extra足medullary myeloma.. In medicine, when something is described as extramedullary, it means it is located outside of the bone marrow. So extramedullary myeloma is myeloma that is outside of the bone marrow. It occurs when malignant plasma cells collect together and form tumors in parts of the body other than a patient's bones. The Annals of Oncology study mentioned earlier found that approximately 13 percent of myeloma patients develop extramedullary disease. Specifically, 7 percent of myeloma patients have extramedullary disease at diagnosis, and 6 percent of patients develop the disease during the course of their myeloma.
A large study published in the Annals of Oncology in 2009 showed that 85 percent of multiple myeloma patients with extramedullary disease had a tumor in the muscles, tendons, fat, and other soft tissue surrounding the axial skeleton, which includes the skull, rib cage, and vertebral column. The Annals of Oncology study mentioned earlier found that approximately 13 percent of myeloma patients develop extramedullary disease. Specifically, 7 percent of myeloma patients have extramedullary disease at diagnosis, and 6 percent of patients develop the disease during the course of their myeloma.
Extramedullary myeloma is also a cancer involving malignant plasma cells forming tumors. However, extramedullary tumors occur outside the bone marrow, in the soft tissue and organs of the body. These tumors can occur in patients with-or without-myeloma tumors in their bones. The Annals of Oncology study mentioned earlier found that approximately 13 percent of myeloma patients develop extramedullary disease. Specifically, 7 percent of myeloma patients have extramedullary disease at diagnosis, and 6 percent of patients develop the disease during the course of their myeloma.