Unakite is a stone of vision. First discovered in the United States in the Unakas mountains of North Carolina, unakite is an altered granite composed of pink orthoclase feldspar, green epidote, and generally colorless quartz. Unakite...or epidote with feldspar as it is also known, consists of a combination of deformed red jasper and green epidote solidly bound together, thus creating the beautiful pistachio and pink coloring.
Unakite Jasper is a stone that encourages visionary abilities by opening your psychic vision. It works through the third eye chakra and aids you to visualize the things you desire in your life. It has an excellent balancing action for your emotions, bringing your emotions into line with your spiritual aspects. Some Unakite stones may be a very dark almost red color. It is believed that these darker reddish pink stones could have an inclusion of Red Jasper in them. If you have darker stones you may want to read about Red Jasper. Any color of these stones are beneficial to use when you are doing your daily meditation.
Stone of Higher Spiritual Forces. Unakite…or Epidote with feldspar as it is also known, consists of a combination of deformed feldspar, green epidote and quartz solidly bound together, thus creating the beautiful pistachio and pink coloring. 
Unakite Crystal Meaning Unakite is an understated crystal that often gets left out. It's actually a very good one. Firstly the colours resemble the heart chakra and the root chakra together. The pink in the crystal resonates to both the core of the earthy heart and the upper part of the root chakra. Unakite Physical Properties Unakite rock is a variety of granite with green epidote and patches of red orthoclase. It is composed of pink feldspar, green epidote and quartz (but lacks mica). The intensity of the green colour is dependant in part on the amount of iron present
Properties of the healing stone-Unakite is a balancing stone that is made up of three minerals-green epidote, pink fieldspar and quartz. It helps to create a balance in all aspects of life, be it emotional, spiritual or mental. 
Unakite Gemstone meaning. Unakite, also called epidote, derives its name from the Greek epidosis, meaning growing together. It is a combination of red jasper and green epidote solidly bound together. From this we get the meaning that what comes together belongs together. Unakite (or Epidote) can be used to draw off negative energy and blockage from the Heart Chakra. Unakite is said to lift your spirits when you are feeling down-this is the gemstone to help you to see the beauty in life.
Alternate Names or Spellings: Unikite, Unakite Jasper. Unakite is a stone with gentle but powerful energy. It can assist one in finding one's animal guide. It is also a stone that is helpful for gardening. Unakite is also a good protection stone. Unakite brings unconditional love of humanity, connection and reunion. Unakite is considered to be very helpful for pregnancy and childbirth. It can help with healing of abandonment and separation issues.
Where Does It Come From ... The meaning of this stone's name relates to the location in the USA where it is mainly found, in the Unakas Mountains in North Carolina. Although most of the stone comes from the United States, it is also found in Switzerland and in Zimbabwe in South Africa. Some Unakite stones may be a very dark almost red color. It is believed that these darker reddish pink stones could have an inclusion of Red Jasper in them. If you have darker stones you may want to read about Red Jasper. Any color of these stones are beneficial to use when you are doing your daily meditation.
It is known as both Unakite Stone and Jasper, as is said to be a member of the family of Jaspers, which are stones made up of a mixture of different materials, including quartz. Some Unakite stones may be a very dark almost red color. It is believed that these darker reddish pink stones could have an inclusion of Red Jasper in them. If you have darker stones you may want to read about Red Jasper. Any color of these stones are beneficial to use when you are doing your daily meditation.