Mesentery: In general, a fold of tissue that attaches organs to the body wall. The word mesentery usually refers to the small bowel mesentery, which anchors the small intestines to the back of the abdominal wall. Blood vessels, nerves, and lymphatics branch through the mesentery to supply the intestine. Other mesenteries exist to support the sigmoid colon, appendix, transverse colon, and portions of the ascending and descending colon.
Found This Helpful. pixologicstudio/iStock/Getty Images. The mesentery is a layer of body tissue that attaches organs to the body. In humans, it specifically refers to tissue that joins parts of the small intestine to the back of the abdominal cavity. Organ Plumbing and Wiring. The mesentery serves as pathway for blood, lymph and nerves to reach the enclosed organs. The mesentery is a two-way highway: nutrients absorbed by the small intestine pass through the mesentery on their way to the rest of the body.
Digestive tract, anterior view. The small intestine is differentiated from the large intestine by the presence of a mesentery (exceptions being no mesentery in the duodenum, and mesentery in the transverse and sigmoid colons) and the absence of tenia coli and appendices epiploicae. 
The greater omentum (also the great omentum, omentum majus, gastrocolic omentum, epiploon, or, especially in animals, caul) is a large apron-like fold of visceral peritoneum that hangs down from the stomach. The greater omentum is larger than the lesser omentum which hangs down from the liver to the lesser curvature. The common anatomical term epiploic derives from epiploon from the Greek epipleein meaning to float or sail on, since the greater omentum appears to float on the surface of the intestines.
Acute mesenteric ischemia (AMI) is a syndrome caused by inadequate blood flow through the mesenteric vessels, resulting in ischemia and eventual gangrene of the bowel wall. Although relatively rare, it is a potentially life-threatening condition. Broadly, AMI may be classified as either arterial or venous. 
A fold of the peritoneum that connects the intestines to the dorsal abdominal wall, especially such a fold that envelops the jejunum and ileum. mes′en·ter′ic adj. The double layer of peritoneum which covers abdominal organs and suspends the small intestine south of the ligament of Treitz—i.e., the jejunum and the ileum. 2. The fan-shaped fold of peritoneum encircling the greater part of the small intestines (jejunum and ileum) and attaching it to the posterior abdominal wall at the root of the mesentery (radix mesenterii). Synonym(s): mesenterium.
1 The term mesentery is often used to refer to a double layer of visceral peritoneum. 2  There are often blood vessels, nerves, and other structures between these layers. 3  The space between these two layers is technically outside of the peritoneal sac, and thus not in the peritoneal cavity. The peritoneum /ˌpɛrɨtəˈniːəm/ is the serous membrane that forms the lining of the abdominal cavity or coelom in amniotes and some invertebrates, such as annelids. It covers most of the intra-abdominal (or coelomic) organs, and is composed of a layer of mesothelium supported by a thin layer of connective tissue
Superior mesenteric artery. The superior mesenteric artery is a major blood vessel in the digestive system. This artery branches off the abdominal aorta and supplies oxygenated blood to the pancreas and the lower parts of the intestine. This includes the lower duodenum, as well as transverse colon. 
The small intestine is, however, about twice the length of the large intestine and usually measures about 10 feet in length. The small intestine winds throughout the abdominal cavity inferior to the stomach. Its many folds help it to pack all 10 feet of its length into such a small body cavity.... Small Intestine. The small intestine is a long, highly convoluted tube in the digestive system that absorbs about 90% of the nutrients from the food we eat. It is given the name “small intestine” because it is only 1 inch in diameter, making it less than half the diameter of the large intestine.