DME (dimethyl ether) is a clean, colorless gas that is easy to liquefy and transport. It has remarkable potential for increased use as an automotive fuel, for electric power generation, and in domestic applications such as heating and cooking. 
DME is a gas under ambient conditions with properties similar to those of propane. However, because it can be stored as a liquid under moderate pressure, it eliminates the need for the high-pressure containers used for CNG or cryogenic storage of LNG. DME (dimethyl ether) is a clean-burning, non-toxic, potentially renewable fuel. Its high cetane value and quiet combustion, as well as its inexpensive propane-like fueling system, make it an excellent, inexpensive diesel alternative that will meet strict emissions standards
Medicare Part B (Medical Insurance) covers medically necessary durable medical equipment (DME) that your doctor prescribes for use in your home. Only your doctor can prescribe medical equipment for you. DME meets these criteria: 1  Durable (long-lasting). 2  Used for a medical reason. 
(December 2012). The standard definition of Durable Medical Equipment used by insurance companies is:Durable Medical Equipment (DME) is any equipment that provides therapeutic benefits to a patient in need because of certain medical conditions and/or illnesses. Durable Medical Equipment (DME) consists of items which: 1  are primarily and customarily used to serve a medical purpose; 2  are not useful to a person in the absence of illness or injury; 3  are ordered or prescribed by a physician; 4  are reusable; 5  can stand repeated use, and. 6  are appropriate for use in the home
DME has been used for decades as an energy source in China, Japan, Korea, Egypt, and Brazil, and it can be produced domestically from a variety of feedstocks, including biogas and natural gas. Ideal uses in North America are in the transportation, agriculture, and construction industries. DME (dimethyl ether) is a clean-burning, non-toxic, potentially renewable fuel. Its high cetane value and quiet combustion, as well as its inexpensive propane-like fueling system, make it an excellent, inexpensive diesel alternative that will meet strict emissions standard
A terminal DME, referred to as a TDME in navigational charts, is a DME that is designed to provide a 0 reading at the threshold point of the runway, regardless of the physical location of the equipment. It is typically associated with ILS or other instrument approach. For example, an aircraft directly above the DME station at 6,076 ft (1 nmi) altitude would still show 1.0 nmi (1.9 km) on the DME readout. The aircraft is technically a mile away, just a mile straight up.
Distance measuring equipment (DME) is a transponder-based radio navigation technology that measures slant range distance by timing the propagation delay of VHF or UHF radio signals. For example, an aircraft directly above the DME station at 6,076 ft (1 nmi) altitude would still show 1.0 nmi (1.9 km) on the DME readout. The aircraft is technically a mile away, just a mile straight up.
Note: To the extent a particular type of DME is considered not medically necessary or investigational and not medically necessary, it may be addressed in a specific Medical Policy or Clinical UM Guideline. Note: As these criteria may not be the criteria used in the definition of DME within the covered individual's plan document, these criteria are not to be used for benefit determinations for a covered individual.
Digital Motor Electronics (DME). The comprehensive management system for your engine: Digital Motor Electronics (DME) controls all key aspects of the engine's operation, ensuring optimum reliability, maximum performance and the lowest possible fuel consumption and emissions. DME verifies all incoming data by comparing it with the reaction of the rest of the system. If a defective sensor delivers unrealistic data, DME replaces this with preset standard values. If a spark plug fails, DME immediately cuts fuel flow to this cylinder in order to prevent engine damage.