India | Where Do Bengal Tigers Live. Bengal tigers survive all throughout the temperate upland forests of India including Hazaribagh National Park, Melghat Tiger Reserve, Panna National Park, Ratapani Tiger Reserve, Orissa dry forests, and Kanha-Indravati corridor. Nepal | Where Do Bengal Tigers Live. The largest concentration of Bengal tigers in Nepal is found in Chitwan National Park while some species are separated by cultivation and densely settle habitat.
Here you will find out some of the rarely known facts about Bengal tigers habitat and where do Bengal tigers live. Bengal tigers are known to survive in much reduced and fragmented range a century ago. These tigers survive in Bhutan, India, China, Bangladesh, Myanmar and Nepal. Nepal | Where Do Bengal Tigers Live. The largest concentration of Bengal tigers in Nepal is found in Chitwan National Park while some species are separated by cultivation and densely settle habitat.
The Bengal tiger is found primarily in India with smaller populations in Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, China and Myanmar. It is the most numerous of all tiger subspecies with more than 2,500 left in the wild. Dry and wet deciduous forests, grassland and temperate forests, mangrove forests. 
Habitat. Tigers live in Asia. Larger subspecies, such as the Siberian tiger, tend to live in northern, colder areas, such as eastern Russia and northeastern China. Smaller subspecies live in southern, warmer countries, such as India, Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, Myanmar, Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam, Malaysia and Indonesia. All tigers are carnivores. Most of a tiger's diet consists of large prey, such as pigs, deer, rhinos or elephant calves. To kill their prey, tigers will clamp down on the animal's neck with their jaws and suffocate the animal.
Distribution: The home to Royal Bengal Tigers (Indian Tigers or panthera tigris) is India Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, and Burma where these graceful animals live mostly in sanctuaries. The usual habitats for these animals are dense forest, mangrove swamps, savannahs, rocky countries and lush grassland. - Bengal Tigers live in Southeast Asia, India, Nepal, and Bangladesh, and are found in swamps, deserts, grasslands, and forests. - They eat only meat like deer, water buffalo, wild pigs, small mammals, and sometimes even birds; therefore, they are classified as carnivores.
Bengal tigers live in tropical rainforests in India, Bangladesh, Bhutan, China, Myanmar and Nepal. However, most of the population is found in grassland or deciduous forests. Bengal tigers like the constant shade that the forest floor guarantees with the understory’s leaves leaving the tigers cool. Bengal tigers live on the forest floor and prey on monkeys, hares and boars and are even known to eat porcupines. Bengal tigers prefer to prey on animals smaller than themselves. Bengal tigers usually hunt old, young or injured animals. Even so, they can make up to ten attempts before being rewarded with a kill.
Bengal tigers live in India and are sometimes called Indian tigers. They are the most common tiger and number about half of all wild tigers. Over many centuries they have become an important part of Indian tradition and lore. Tigers live alone and aggressively scent-mark large territories to keep their rivals away. 
Around 49 to 57 Bengal tigers live in the Eastern Ghats with a range of 7,772 sq. km (3,001 sq. miles). These are found in the isolated pockets of the forests in Nagarjunasagar Tiger Reserve and Gundla Braheshwara National Park. Nepal | Where Do Bengal Tigers Live. The largest concentration of Bengal tigers in Nepal is found in Chitwan National Park while some species are separated by cultivation and densely settle habitat.
Bangladesh | Where Do Bengal Tigers Live. The Bengal tiger is the national animal of Bangladesh and are found in the mangrove forests of Sundarban. As of survey 2004, there were around 200 to 419 Bengal tigers remaining in the wild of Sundarbans. Nepal | Where Do Bengal Tigers Live. The largest concentration of Bengal tigers in Nepal is found in Chitwan National Park while some species are separated by cultivation and densely settle habitat.