Medical Definition of COUPLING. 1. : the joint together with its supporting structures between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum that joins the hindquarters of a quadruped to the trunk; broadly: the part of the body or the conformation and proportionate length of the part of the body that joins the hindquarters to the forequarters. 2. Full Definition of COUPLING. 1. : the act of bringing or coming together: pairing; specifically: sexual union. 2. : a device that serves to connect the ends of adjacent parts or objects. 3.
a device or contrivance which serves to couple or connect adjacent parts or objects; as, a belt coupling, which connects the ends of a belt; a car coupling, which connects the cars in a train; a shaft coupling, which connects the ends of shafts. A coupling is a device used to connect two shafts together at their ends for the purpose of transmitting power. Couplings do not normally allow disconnection of shafts during operation, however there are torque limiting couplings which can slip or disconnect when some torque limit is exceeded.
In software engineering, coupling is the manner and degree of interdependence between software modules; a measure of how closely connected two routines or modules are; the strength of the relationships between modules. Coupling is usually contrasted with cohesion. 
Coupling refers to the degree of direct knowledge that one component has of another. This is meant to be interpreted as encapsulation vs. non-encapsulation. An example of tight coupling occurs when a dependent class contains a pointer directly to a concrete class which provides the required behavior. In computing and systems design a loosely coupled system is one in which each of its components has, or makes use of, little or no knowledge of the definitions of other separate components. Sub-areas include the coupling of classes, interfaces, data, and services.
The adjective COUPLED has 2 senses: 1. joined together especially in a pair or pairs. 2. connected by a link, as railway cars or trailer trucks. Familiarity information: COUPLED used as an adjective is rare. There's always a deep breath before a plunge. (English proverb). If you do not have malice inside, it will not come from outside. (Albanian proverb). The ass went seeking for horns and lost his ears. (Arabic proverb). Hunger drives the wolf from its den..
Part of the Computing fundamentals glossary: Coupling is the act of joining two things together. In software development, coupling refers to the degree to which software components are dependant upon each other. For instance, in a tightly-coupled architecture, each component and its associated components must be present in order for code to be executed or compiled. 
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: coupling (Noun). act of joining together to form a couple. coupling (Noun). a device that couples two things together. coupling (Noun). the degree of reliance between two program modules. A coupling is a device used to connect two shafts together at their ends for the purpose of transmitting power. Couplings do not normally allow disconnection of shafts during operation, however there are torque limiting couplings which can slip or disconnect when some torque limit is exceeded.
Adj. 1. coupled-joined together especially in a pair or pairs. conjugate, conjugated. united-characterized by unity; being or joined into a single entity; presented a united front. Usage Note: When used to refer to two people who function socially as a unit, as in a married couple, the word couple may take either a singular or a plural verb, depending on whether the members are considered individually or collectively: The couple were married last week.
The noun COUPLING has 3 senses: 1. a connection (like a clamp or vise) between two things so they move together. 2. a mechanical device that serves to connect the ends of adjacent objects. 3. the act of pairing a male and female for reproductive purposes. Familiarity information: COUPLING used as a noun is uncommon. Meaning: A mechanical device that serves to connect the ends of adjacent objects. Classified under: Nouns denoting man-made objects. Synonyms: coupler; coupling. Hypernyms (coupling is a kind of...): mechanical device (mechanism consisting of a device that works on mechanical principles).