1 Place the asparagus in the water and let it cook for 2 1/2 - 3 minutes. 2  Test an asparagus spear for doneness-it should still be crispy, not limp. 3  If you wish, plunge the asparagus in a bowl of ice water to cool it down. This is a common way to quickly cook asparagus to perfection and serve it cold in salads or as a luncheon side dish. If you'd prefer to serve the asparagus warm, skip the ice water bath. Here's how to blanch asparagus: 1  Boil a large pot of water and 2 teaspoons of salt.
How to Cook Asparagus on the Stove. To steam asparagus, lay the spears in a large skillet and top with 1 inch of water. Lightly salt the water and bring to a simmer. Cook, covered, for 3 to 5 minutes or until crisp-tender. How to Roast Asparagus. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Place asparagus on a baking sheet or in a baking dish and drizzle with 1 tablespoon olive oil. Toss lightly to coat. If desired, season with salt and black pepper. Roast, uncovered, about 15 minutes or until crisp-tender, lightly tossing twice during roasting
Scroll on down to see how to choose asparagus in the shops and how to prepare it for cooking. If you are reading this you are probably already a lover of fresh asparagus steamed so that it melts in your mouth and served in a tasty layer of melted butter. The alternative is to place the stalks on a chopping board and cut the ends of about 3-5cm from the end. This will work fine when you get to know how tough the stalks get but I’d go with the snapping method any day. Beware the floppy asparagus. If your asparagus is not as fresh as it might be it won’t snap as well.
1 Bring the water to a full boil. 2  Place the asparagus spears in the boiling water. 3  Once the water returns to a boil, cook for 5 minutes. 4  If you wish, use a microwave-safe cooking dish to boil asparagus in the microwave. 5  Fill the cooking dish with 1/4 cup water, then add the spears and place the lid on the dish. This is a common way to quickly cook asparagus to perfection and serve it cold in salads or as a luncheon side dish. If you'd prefer to serve the asparagus warm, skip the ice water bath. Here's how to blanch asparagus: 1  Boil a large pot of water and 2 teaspoons of salt.
said: My favorite way of cooking asparagus is to place them in a dish, pour olive oil over them, then sprinkle pepper and Kosher salt over them, then toss until evenly coated. Either grill them on a bbq or a grill pan on the stove for about 4-5 minutes depending on the thickness. you can stand the asparagus up in a small sause pan with water.. and cook for 10 minutes. then lay them down for the last 5 minutes of cooking .. this way the ends don’t get soft and mushy. a bit of butter and salt..
1 Place the asparagus spears in the boiling water. 2  Once the water returns to a boil, cook for 5 minutes. 3  If you wish, use a microwave-safe cooking dish to boil asparagus in the microwave. 4  Fill the cooking dish with 1/4 cup water, then add the spears and place the lid on the dish. This is a common way to quickly cook asparagus to perfection and serve it cold in salads or as a luncheon side dish. If you'd prefer to serve the asparagus warm, skip the ice water bath. Here's how to blanch asparagus: 1  Boil a large pot of water and 2 teaspoons of salt.
Set the microwave on high heat and cook the asparagus about 2 minutes and 30 seconds. If you want your asparagus to be more tender, cook it for another 30 seconds or so. Be sure not to overcook asparagus. you can stand the asparagus up in a small sause pan with water.. and cook for 10 minutes. then lay them down for the last 5 minutes of cooking .. this way the ends don’t get soft and mushy. a bit of butter and salt..
Directions. Bring 1 inch salted water to a boil in a large skillet. Add asparagus in one layer. Cook until tender, about 5 minutes for medium and 7 minutes for jumbo. Drain, and transfer to a serving platter. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and top with a pat of butter.