Definition: Intercompany netting is the offsetting of accounts receivable and accounts payable between two business entities owned by the same parent, so that payment is only made for the net difference between their receivables and payables. 
By combining our expertise with your experience, you get a tailored system matched to your characteristics as well as those of your vessel. NET Systems is an innovative leader in the design and production of trawl nets, trawl doors, codends, and manufactured Offshore Aqua Culture products. NET Systems is part of the Nichimo Group of Japan, a world leader and manufacturer of netting, fishing nets and supplies, processing equipments, and seafood. Nor'Eastern Trawl Systems, known as NET Systems, is located on Bainbridge Island in Washington State, U.S.A and has two other locations in the state of Alaska. NET Systems was founded in 1978 on the principle of providing a complete Trawl fishing system to the customer
2 Copyright 2005, EuroNetting Inc. To settle the net, the netting operator then pays or receives each Participant’s net position to or from the Participant, and uses the resulting long or short currency balances to offset the FX trades. The netting process takes place on a cycle basis, typically monthly, and is managed by a central entity called the Netting Center. Although netting systems are occasionally used to net out cashflows in just one currency, it is more usual for a netting system to manage cashflows in several currencies.
Smart Net Systems Ltd. Smart Net Systems provides netting products for all industries, no matter how unique or individual their needs. Netting systems for application in agriculture, aquaculture, oil & industrial, sports, marine and more are all available. Smart Net Systems does more than just sell netting. We provide many years of professional technological expertise and knowledge in netting dynamics, gained through hands-on experience.
A netting system collates batches of cashflows between a defined set of entities, or Netting Participants, and offsets them against each other such that just a single cashflow to or from each Participant takes place to settle the net result of all cashflows. The netting process takes place on a cycle basis, typically monthly, and is managed by a central entity called the Netting Center. Although netting systems are occasionally used to net out cashflows in just one currency, it is more usual for a netting system to manage cashflows in several currencies.
Multilateral netting is a treasury management technique used by large companies to manage their intercompany payment processes, usually involving many currencies. Correctly applied, netting can yield significant savings from reduced foreign exchange trading and improved intercompany settlement efficiency. The netting process takes place on a cycle basis, typically monthly, and is managed by a central entity called the Netting Center. Although netting systems are occasionally used to net out cashflows in just one currency, it is more usual for a netting system to manage cashflows in several currencies.
This page is about the finance term. For the fabric called netting see Net (textile). In general, netting means to allow a positive and a negative value to set-off and partially or entirely cancel each other out. In the context of credit risk, there are at least three specific types of netting:
About NET Systems. Nor'Eastern Trawl Systems, known as NET Systems, is located on Bainbridge Island in Washington State, U.S.A and has two other locations in the state of Alaska. NET Systems was founded in 1978 on the principle of providing a complete Trawl fishing system to the customer