The xiphoid process /ˈzaɪfɔɪd/ , or xiphisternum or metasternum, is a small cartilaginous process (extension) of the lower part of the sternum which is usually ossified in the adult human. It may also be referred to as the ensiform process. In newborns and young (especially slender) infants, the tip of the xiphoid process may be both seen and felt as a lump just below the sternal notch. By age 15 to 29, the xiphoid usually fuses to the body of the sternum with a fibrous joint.
1 Attached to the anterior surface of the xiphoid process are the anterior costoxiphoid ligament and a section of the rectus abdominis muscle. 2  The posterior surface serves as an attachment to the posterior costoxiphoid ligament, transversus thoracis muscle, and diaphragm. It rests at the 10th thoracic vertebra. It is the tiniest and lowest part of the sternum. Unlike the other two parts of the sternum namely manubrium and body, there are costal cartilages and ribs that are attached to the xiphoid process. 1  Attached to the anterior surface of the xiphoid process are the anterior costoxiphoid ligament and a section of the rectus abdominis muscle
No. It's not vestigial.  The xiphoid process anchors several important muscles,  including the abdominal diaphragm, a sheet-like muscle that is  necessary for normal breat … hing. I lost a lot of weight over a period of over two years--from 245 to 178. About the time I reached 200 I noti … ced that my xiphoid process was bent outward, the fat now being gone from there.
Sternum. The sternum, commonly known as the breastbone, is a long, narrow flat bone that serves as the keystone of the rib cage and stabilizes the thoracic skeleton. Several muscles that move the arms, head, and neck have their origins on the sternum. Click to read more below. The sternum, commonly known as the breastbone, is a long, narrow flat bone that serves as the keystone of the rib cage and stabilizes the thoracic skeleton. Several muscles that move the arms, head, and neck have their origins on the sternum.
Any non-medical person may not be familiar with the xiphoid process. To make it simple, xiphoid process is the end part of sternum, the breastbone. It is a tiny bone, triangular in shape attached with the body of the sternum. Sternum lies in the middle of chest. The ribs are attached to it to form the ribcage. 
It extends from the pubic symphysis, pubic crest and pubic tubercle inferiorly, to the xiphoid process and costal cartilages of ribs V to VII superiorly. The rectus abdominis muscle is contained in the rectus sheath, which consists of the aponeuroses of the lateral abdominal muscles. The rectus abdominis muscle, also known as the  abdominals or abs , is a paired muscle running vertically on each side of the anterior wall of the human abdomen, as well as that of some other mammals. There are two parallel muscles, separated by a midline band of connective tissue called the linea alba
Several muscles of the abdominal wall are attached to the xiphoid process, including the rectus abdominis. Also called ensiform cartilage, ensiform process, xiphisternum, xiphoid, xiphoid appendix. Compare manubrium. xiphoid process the pointed process of cartilage, supported by a core of bone, connected with the lower end of the sternum; called also xiphoid. The xiphoid process.