Their new VIP membership system costs $9.95 per month to join, and there is no option to skip the month like you have with JustFab or ShoeMint. So if you enroll (which is optional) you can count on $9.95 coming out of your credit card every single month as long as you are a VIP member. 
JustFab is a personalized shopping experience that gives you access to celebrity stylists and their hottest picks. Every woman deserves to have the season's latest trends and style expert advice regardless of her location, schedule or budget. 1. Get a Personalized Boutique on the 1st of Every Month. Receive new styles handpicked just for you by our stylists each month. 2. Visit Your Boutique By the 5th of the Month. Log in to your Boutique and check out your new selections by the 5th of the month.
Yes, $39.95 for 8 months, without getting anything from JustFab. I then did a bit research on the internet. It turned out my girlfriend wasn't the only victim. Apparently JustFab works like this: once you buy something from their website, you become their VIP member without your knowledge. Beneath the mall-chic facade is the JustFab VIP Membership Program, a near-compulsory subscription shoppers are pushed into joining upon checkout. The pitch: you can get a pair of high quality boots for just $40! The reality: you'll be charged $40 every subsequent month whether you want more boots or not.
If you do not take action between the 1st and the 5th of the month, you will be charged $39.95 for a member credit on the 6th. I didn't have any direct experience with JustFab. The victim was my girlfriend. Beneath the mall-chic facade is the JustFab VIP Membership Program, a near-compulsory subscription shoppers are pushed into joining upon checkout. The pitch: you can get a pair of high quality boots for just $40! The reality: you'll be charged $40 every subsequent month whether you want more boots or not.
If for any reason you are not satisfied with your selection, you can exchange it for another style or return it for a member credit or store credit FREE of charge. We accept returns up to 30 days from date of shipment for items that are in new, unused condition and have all of the original packaging intact. 1. Get a Personalized Boutique on the 1st of Every Month. Receive new styles handpicked just for you by our stylists each month. 2. Visit Your Boutique By the 5th of the Month. Log in to your Boutique and check out your new selections by the 5th of the month.
You may cancel your JustFab VIP Membership at any time. There is absolutely no cancellation fee. If you would like to continue receiving selections, then just skip the month by clicking Skip This Month in your Boutique between the 1st and the 5th of the month. 1. Get a Personalized Boutique on the 1st of Every Month. Receive new styles handpicked just for you by our stylists each month. 2. Visit Your Boutique By the 5th of the Month. Log in to your Boutique and check out your new selections by
SKIP ANY MONTH NEW! If you are not ready to make your purchase, simply log into your account and 'Skip the Month' by the 5th and your credit card will not be charged. If no action is taken between the 1st and the 5th of each month, your credit card will be charged $39.95 for a member credit on the 6th until you cancel. VIP ELITE Membership General Terms and Conditions. You must have a ShoeDazzle account in good standing and have a valid credit card on file with ShoeDazzle (no hold on your credit card, suspension of your ShoeDazzle account or past amount owed to ShoeDazzle).
Once you've made your first purchase with us using the VIP option at checkout, you automatically become a VIP member. If you do not make a purchase or choose to click Skip This Month in your Boutique by the 5th of each month, you are automatically charged £35 on the 6th, and a member credit is generated for you. You may cancel your JustFab VIP Membership at any time. There is absolutely no cancellation fee. If you would like to continue receiving selections, then just skip the month by clicking Skip This Month in your Boutique between the 1st and the 5th of the month.
How does the JustFab VIP Programme work? 1  Shop Your Boutique. 2  Receive new styles on the 1st of every month. 3  Skip The Month. 4  If nothing catches your eye, simply click the Skip This Month button in your Boutique by the 5th. 5  Didn't Buy or Skip? 6  If you do not make a purchase or choose to Skip the Month by the 5th, you'll be charged £35 for 1 member ... You may cancel your JustFab VIP Membership at any time. There is absolutely no cancellation fee. If you would like to continue receiving selections, then just skip the month by clicking Skip This Month in your Boutique between the 1st and the 5th of the month.