MUR-Mauritian Rupee. The Mauritian rupee is the currency of Mauritius. It is theoretically divided into 100 cents. The rupee was established by law in 1876 as the local currency of Mauritius. The rupee was chosen due to the massive inflow of Indian rupees following Indian immigration to Mauritius. 
The rupee was established by law in 1876 as the local currency of Mauritius. The rupee was chosen due to the massive inflow of Indian rupees following Indian immigration to Mauritius. The Mauritian rupee was introduced in 1877, replacing the Indian rupee, sterling and the Mauritian dollar, with the Mauritian rupee equal to one Indian rupee or half a Mauritian dollar.
Mauritius, Rupee. The Mauritian Rupee is the currency of Mauritius. Our currency rankings show that the most popular Mauritius Rupee exchange rate is the MUR to EUR rate. The currency code for Rupees is MUR, and the currency symbol is ₨. Below, you'll find Mauritian Rupee rates and a currency converter
Enter the amount to be converted in the box to the left of the currency and press the convert button. To show Mauritian Rupees and just one other currency click on any other currency. The Mauritian Rupee is the currency in Mauritius (MU, MUS). The symbol for MUR can be written Mau Rs, and ₨. The Mauritian Rupee is divided into 100 cents. The exchange rate for the Mauritian Rupee was last updated on October 9, 2015 from The International Monetary Fund. The MUR conversion factor has 6 significant digits. 
The currency abbreviation for the Mauritius rupee (MUR), the currency for Mauritius. The Mauritius rupee is made up of 100 cents and is often presented with the symbol Rs or Rp. Other currencies in circulation at the time were the British pound and the Mauritian dollar. Initially, the Mauritius rupee was pegged to the Indian rupee at par, but from 1934 to 1979, it was pegged to the British pound, at a rate of 13.3:1. RELATED TERMS.
The rupee (sign : ₨; ISO 4217 code: MUR) is the currency of Mauritius. Several other currencies are also called rupee. The rupee was chosen due to the massive inflow of Indian rupees following Indian immigration to Mauritius. The Mauritian rupee was introduced in 1877, replacing the Indian rupee, sterling and the Mauritian dollar, with the Mauritian rupee equal to one Indian rupee or half a Mauritian dollar.
MUR-Mauritian Rupee. The Mauritian rupee is the currency of Mauritius. It is theoretically divided into 100 cents. The rupee was established by law in 1876 as the local currency of Mauritius. The rupee was chosen due to the massive inflow of Indian rupees following Indian immigration to Mauritius. Rs
The United States Dollar is also known as the American Dollar, and the US Dollar. The symbol for MUR can be written Mau Rs, and ₨. The symbol for USD can be written $. The Mauritian Rupee is divided into 100 cents. The United States Dollar is divided into 100 cents. The exchange rate for the Mauritian Rupee was last updated on October 14, 2015 from The International Monetary Fund. 