Hey guys i was looking for lists of inherited diseases and i was able to find a list for X Linked Dominant Diseases, a list for List of X linked Recessive disorders, and a list for List of Autosomal Dominant Diseases. but i couldn't find a list for Autosomal Recessive Diseases so i wrote one here. 
List of Autosomal Dominant and Recessive Disorders. Autosomal dominant and recessive disorders play a major role in determining the transfer of disease from parents to children.
Inheritance of Autosomal Recessive Genetic Diseases. These genetic diseases are diseases caused by an error in a single DNA gene. Autosomal means the errors occurs on chromosome 1..22 rather than on the 23rd sex-linked X chromosome. Recessive means that disease only occurs when a person has two copies of the bad gene. Usually this means they must inherit the disease from both parents. Some examples of autosomal recessive diseases are Cystic Fibrosis, Phenylketonuria, Sickle Cell Anemia, Tay Sachs, Albinism, and galactosemia. See autosomal recessive diseases for a full list. Recessive diseases often occur in genes that produce an enzyme. In a carrier, who has only one bad copy, there is often no disease, because the second gene can pull up the slack, and maintain health. In some recessive diseases, a carrier gets a mild form of the diseas
Autosomal recessive inheritance means that the gene is located on one of the autosomes (chromosome pairs 1 through 22). This means that males and females are equally affected. Recessive means that two copies of the gene are necessary to have the trait, one inherited from the mother, and one from the father. Once parents have had a child with a recessive trait or disease, there is a one out of four, or 25 percent chance, with each subsequent pregnancy, for another child to be born with the same trait or disorder.
3.3 Autosomal Recessive Inheritance. In autosomal recessive inheritance, two copies of a disease allele are required for an individual to be susceptible to expressing the phenotype. Typically, the parents of an affected individual are not affected but are gene carriers. As in autosomal recessive inheritance, two copies of a disease allele on the X chromosome are required for an individual with two X chromosomes (a female) to be affected with an X-linked recessive disease.
Autosomal recessive: cystic fibrosis (CF), sickle cell anemia (SC), Tay Sachs disease. Genes are inherited from our biological parents in specific ways. One of the basic patterns of inheritance of our genes is called autosomal recessive inheritance. Once parents have had a child with a recessive trait or disease, there is a one out of four, or 25 percent chance, with each subsequent pregnancy, for another child to be born with the same trait or disorder.
If the disorder is Autosomal recessive there should be transfer of both affected genes from both the parents to cause the disease. If gene from only one parent is transferred then the child becomes a carrier but does not get the disease. Autosomal dominant and recessive disorders play a major role in determining the transfer of disease from parents to children.
Autosomal recessive inheritance means that the gene in question is located on one of the autosomes. These are numbered pairs of chromosomes, 1 through 22. Autosomes do not affect an offspring's gender. Recessive means that two copies of the gene are necessary to have the trait or disorder. Once parents have had a child with a recessive trait or disease, there is a one out of four, or a 25 percent, chance that with each subsequent pregnancy, another child will be born with the sam
3.2 Autosomal Dominant Inheritance. In autosomal dominant inheritance, only one copy of a disease allele is necessary for an individual to be susceptible to expressing the phenotype. With each pregnancy, there is a one in two (50%) chance the offspring will inherit the disease allele. As in autosomal recessive inheritance, two copies of a disease allele on the X chromosome are required for an individual with two X chromosomes (a female) to be affected with an X-linked recessive disease.
Many autosomal recessive conditions occur this way. As mentioned above, a person who carries one copy of an autosomal recessive gene is usually not aware they carry the gene. They do not show any signs of the disease or condition. It is estimated that all people carry about five or more recessive genes that cause genetic diseases or conditions. Once parents have had a child with a recessive trait or disease, there is a one out of four, or a 25 percent, chance that with each subsequent pregnancy, another child will be born with the same trait or disorder.