The main types of chocolate are white chocolate, milk chocolate, semisweet chocolate, bittersweet chocolate and unsweetened chocolate. These types of chocolate may be produced with ordinary cacao beans (mass-produced and cheap) or specialty cacao beans (aromatic and expensive) or a mixture of these two types. Dark chocolate. Sweetened chocolate with high content of cocoa solids and no or very little milk, it may contain up to 12% milk solids. Dark chocolate can either be sweet, semi-sweet, bittersweet or unsweetened. If a recipe specifies 'dark chocolate' you should first try semi-sweet d
Sweet chocolate which normally contains 10-20% cocoa solids (which includes cocoa and cocoa butter) and more than 12% milk solids. It is seldom used for baking, except for cookies. Dark chocolate. Sweetened chocolate with high content of cocoa solids and no or very little milk, it may contain up to 12% milk solids. Dark chocolate can either be sweet, semi-sweet, bittersweet or unsweetened. If a recipe specifies 'dark chocolate' you should first try semi-sweet d
Milk chocolate. Sweet chocolate which normally contains 10-20% cocoa solids (which includes cocoa and cocoa butter) and more than 12% milk solids. It is seldom used for baking, except for cookies. Sweetened chocolate with high content of cocoa solids and no or very little milk, it may contain up to 12% milk solids. Dark chocolate. Sweetened chocolate with high content of cocoa solids and no or very little milk, it may contain up to 12% milk solids. Dark chocolate can either be sweet, semi-sweet, bittersweet or unsweetened. If a recipe specifies 'dark chocolate' you should first try semi-sweet d
If you buy an item with rarity 90 or over from the Chocolate Factory, you will receive the Chocolate! avatar. There are exceptions, but a good rule to this is if an item restocks for 5,000NP or higher it is likely to be a suitable item. The items below are the ones to look out for: 1  Angry Candy. Mint chocolate items can usually be sold with a profit. The items that stock in numbers of around 1-3 for 500-2500 NPs are often sold for a few thousand NPs profit. Y. Stay away from 2,500 NP items unless you know they are profits.
ABOUT CHOCOLATE TRUFFLES Chocolate Truffles were a French invention, made from ganache, a soft textured chocolate consisting of melted chocolate and cream. The ganache for a Chocolate Truffle is formed into a shape, often a ball or square, and dusted with powdered cocoa. 
With the average U.S. citizen eating over 11 pounds of chocolate (that's about 120 chocolate bars), per year, it is incredible to consider how few of us are aware of the atrocities involved in 70 percent or more of the world's cacao production. Still, if I can't find slave-free chocolate, I don't buy chocolate. For holidays we often order in bulk, which can be a big money saver. Other steps you can take to help with this cause: *Fill out Hershey's corporate responsibility online survey. Urge them to establish an ethical and slavery-free supply chain.
Chocolate rations served two purposes: as a morale boost, and as a high-energy, pocket-sized emergency ration. Military chocolate rations are often made in special lots to military specifications for weight, size, and endurance. The majority of chocolate issued to military personnel is produced by the Hershey Company. When provided as a morale boost or care package, military chocolate is often no different from normal store-bought bars in taste and composition. However, they are frequently packaged or molded differently. Military chocolate has been a part of standard United States military ration since the original Ration D or D ration bar of 1937.
There's magic inside. Our stocked Boutique Chocolate Case is known to spark pure joy. Try our all-new Mousse Meringues or best-selling chocolate oysters-and bring home happiness in a gift box. Our chocolatiers will help you pick from over 40 flavors of truffles, treats and sweet whims. 