1 Make sure the water is at a bare simmer. 2  Cook for 4 minutes: The final cooking time for a poached egg is very much up to you, and it depends on how well you like your eggs done and how hot the water is. 3  But 4 minutes, give or take, in lightly simmering water, will give you a firm white and a gooey but still runny yolk. 1 But 4 minutes, give or take, in lightly simmering water, will give you a firm white and a gooey but still runny yolk. 2  Remove the egg: Use a slotted spoon to remove the egg from the water. 3  Pat the egg dry: This is optional as well, but I like to pat the egg dry lightly with a paper towel.
Let it poach: Turn off the heat, cover the pan and set your timer for 5 minutes. Don't peek, poke, stir or accost the egg in any way. Lift it out: Remove the egg with a slotted spoon and serve immediately. Alternatively, move the egg to an ice bath and refrigerate up to 8 hours. Directions. Heat the water: Add enough water to come 1 inch up the side of a narrow, deep 2-quart saucier. Add 1 teaspoon kosher salt and 2 teaspoons white vinegar and bring to a simmer over medium heat. Meanwhile, crack 1 very fresh cold large egg into a custard cup or small ramekin.
If you are at altitude, or want firmer egg yolks, you may need to cook them longer. If you try 4 minutes and the eggs are too cooked, reduce the time. 4 Gently lift the poached eggs out of the pan with a slotted spoon and place on a plate to serve. One way to help your poached egg whites stay together is to remove some of the thin wispy egg whites before you add your eggs to the hot water. An easy way to do this is with a fine mesh sieve. 1 Place the raw egg into a fine mesh sieve over a bowl.
1 Place in microwave and cook for 1 minute or until desired doneness. 2  You may need to experiment with cooking times based on the wattage of your microwave and taste preference. 3  Immediately remove egg from hot water with a slotted spoon as it will continue to cook. 4  Serve with salt and pepper to taste. Directions. 1  Add the water and white vinegar to a 6 ounce custard cup. 2  Break egg into cup, pierce egg yolk with toothpick, and cover dish loosely with plastic wrap. 3 
The truly easiest way to “poach” an egg is in the microwave. Use a small microwaveable bowl,such as a custard cup, and spray it with olive oil spray. Crack the egg in the bowl and cover with waxed paper. You may have to play with the cook times, but I cook mine for 45-50 seconds on 60% power. One way to help your poached egg whites stay together is to remove some of the thin wispy egg whites before you add your eggs to the hot water. An easy way to do this is with a fine mesh sieve. 1 Place the raw egg into a fine mesh sieve over a bowl.
NOTE: I like to use a non-stick pan so the poached eggs will not stick to the bottom of the pan. (2) Working with the eggs, one by one, break or crack each egg onto a saucer, ramekin, small cups, or bowls. We're doing this for two reasons: So you won't break the yolk and it prevents adding bad eggs. The best eggs for poaching are the freshest eggs you can find. If eggs are more than a week old, the whites thin out. Whites of fresh eggs will gather compactly around the yolk, making a rounder, neater shape. (1) I like to poach my eggs in a wide shallow pan.
Once you've poached a million eggs, you can tell their level of doneness by just looking at them. But for the rest of the world, it works like this: Runny eggs take 2 minutes, medium take 3 minutes, and firm take 4 minutes. Mistake #8: You're Serving Soggy Eggs. Your eggs are now ready to eat, with one exception. 
1. Select a suitable pan for poaching. The pan must be shallow and wide, as the trick to poaching well, without an egg poacher is to gently slip the egg into a wide, shallow pan filled with simmering water. The pan should be able to take about 1.5 liters (2 3/4 pints) of water, or 10cm (4) depth of water. How to Poach an Egg. Five Methods: Using a pan to poach eggs Using an individual egg poacher Using a silicon egg poacher cup Making poached eggs in advance If the yolk breaks in the water. Poaching eggs is a healthy way to prepare eggs, since you don't need butter or oil to cook with.
Add all of the eggs you are poaching to the pan in the same way, keeping some distance between them. 3 Turn off the heat and cover the pan. Set a timer for 4 minutes (or count out loud to 60, four times). At this point the egg whites should be completely cooked, while the egg yolks are still runny. One way to help your poached egg whites stay together is to remove some of the thin wispy egg whites before you add your eggs to the hot water. An easy way to do this is with a fine mesh sieve. 1 Place the raw egg into a fine mesh sieve over a bowl.
Drop the egg bag into the hot water. Let cook approximately 2 to 4 minutes depending on how hot your water is and the size of the eggs. When done, take your eggs out of the water with a pair of tongs or a slotted spoon. Cut off the plastic wrap and serve. The best eggs for poaching are the freshest eggs you can find. If eggs are more than a week old, the whites thin out. Whites of fresh eggs will gather compactly around the yolk, making a rounder, neater shape. (1) I like to poach my eggs in a wide shallow pan.