Gastropod Fossils. Description: Gastropods are the most diverse and abundant type of mollusks, with nearly 35,000 living and 15,000 fossil species identified so far. The group includes snails, slugs, conchs, whelks, and limpets. Like the familiar snail, most gastropods have a single coiled shell (slugs being a notable exception). A variety of fossil gastropods occur in the Pennsylvanian and Permian rocks of eastern Kansa
There are many thousands of species of sea snails and sea slugs, as well as freshwater snails, freshwater limpets, land snails and land slugs. The class Gastropoda contains a vast total of named species, second only to the insects in overall number. The fossil history of this class goes back to the Late Cambrian. There are 611 families of gastropods known, of which 202 are extinct and appear only in the fossil record. Some of the more familiar and better-known gastropods are terrestrial gastropods (the land snails and slugs) and some live in freshwater, but more than two thirds of all named species live in a marine environment.
Answer by Haj86. Confidence votes 6. Some well known gastropods, which are mollusks, are snails and slugs, and they exhibit what is known as BILATERAL SYMMETRY. The only other kind of symmetry that exists in the animal kingdom, with the exception of colonial species such as the sponge, is RADIAL SYMMETRY. This second type is exhibited by starfish, for example.
The Gastropoda or gastropods, more commonly known as snails and slugs, are a large taxonomic class within the phylum Mollusca. The class Gastropoda includes snails and slugs of all kinds and all sizes from microscopic to large. Some of the more familiar and better-known gastropods are terrestrial gastropods (the land snails and slugs) and some live in freshwater, but more than two thirds of all named species live in a marine environment.
The Gastropoda. Snails and slugs, limpets, and sea hares. Gastropods are one of the most diverse groups of animals, both in form, habit, and habitat. They are by far the largest group of molluscs, with more than 62,000 described living species, and they comprise about 80% of living molluscs. The shell is partly or entirely lost in the juveniles or adults of some groups, with total loss occurring in several groups of land slugs and sea slugs (nudibranchs). Externally, gastropods appear to be bilaterally symmetrical. However, they are one of the most successful clades of asymmetric organisms known.
There are about about 13,000 named genera for both Recent and fossil gastropods. They have a long and rich fossil record from the Early Cambrian that shows periodic extinctions of subclades, followed by diversification of new groups. The shell is partly or entirely lost in the juveniles or adults of some groups, with total loss occurring in several groups of land slugs and sea slugs (nudibranchs). Externally, gastropods appear to be bilaterally symmetrical. However, they are one of the most successful clades of asymmetric organisms known.
This class, containing over 35,000 living and 15,000 fossil gastropod species, comprises the largest class of Mollusca, and includes the limpets, top shells, periwinkles, slipper shells, snails, slugs, sea hares, abalones, nudibranches, or sea slugs, and sea butterflies. Some forms, such as slugs, are shell-less and do not have a tall body mass. Gastropod larvae undergo a twisting, or torsion, that brings the rear of the body (mantle cavity, gills, and anus) to a position near the head and results in the twisting of internal organ systems.
Overview. The Class: Gastropoda includes most molluscs, with perhaps 60,000 existing species and 15,000 fossil forms. Generally, the gastropods have an asymmetrically spiral shell, which functions as a portable retreat. Their body consists of a head, foot, visceral hump, and mantle