Alpine goats can range from white or gray to brown and black. Alpine goats are heavy milkers. The milk can be made into butter, cheese, soap, ice cream or any other dairy product normally made from cow's milk. They are often used for commercial dairy production, as well as homestead milk goats. Alpine goats are a medium to large sized breed. Males are over 81cm (32in) tall at the withers and females are over 76cm (30in) tall at the withers. Their hair is short to medium in length, and they come in all colours and combinations of colours.
Mountain Goat B.C.'s Northcoast bordering Alaska is noted for having the highest population of mountain goat in north America. Our Exclusive 10,000 sq. mile guide area is located in the heart of mountain goat heaven. Towering peaks, mountains, ice fields provide some the best habitat for these magnificent animals. Our area boasts the best trophy mountain goats available with over 40 alpine lakes to choose from. The high mountain goat population in our area allows for and extended season. Goats maybe hunted right up until the end of February. EARLY SEASON FLY-IN HUNTS August & September are the 2 best months for fly-ins. Our mountain goat camps are located on remote alpine lakes. Camps are equipped with comfortable wall tents with heat. They are built to withstand the wettest and harshest weather this region is known for. From camp you will hike the various hills & ridges in search of your trophy mountain goat
﻿We are a small farm located on Vashon Island, in the heart of Puget Sound, where we breed quality purebred French Alpine Dairy Goats. 
The Alpine is a medium to large sized breed of domestic goat known for its very good milking ability. They have no set colours or markings (although certain markings are discriminated against). They have horns, a straight profile and erect ears. The breed originated in the French Alps. Alpine goats are a medium to large sized breed. Males are over 81cm (32in) tall at the withers and females are over 76cm (30in) tall at the withers. Their hair is short to medium in length, and they come in all colours and combinations of colours.
Whole herd tested CAE Negative March 2015. Welcome to Maplewood Hill Top Goat Farm. Maplewood is located in NW Pennsylvania (Meadville, PA) 90 miles north of Pittsburgh and 40 miles South of Erie in a straight line just off I-79. We specialize in well bred Nigerian and Alpine goats. And occasionally a Mini-Alpine.
Welcome to our goat farm where friendly, healthy dairy/show goats are our goal. We raise Nubian dairy goats that produce great tasting milk. We are located in Kirksville, Missouri, about one hour south of Iowa and one hour west of Illinois. Please feel free to visit our goat farm or ask us any questions you may have. You can contact us a 660-627-0273 or at a2a2cows@gmail.com Prices for doelings and bucklings are listed above.
Idyll Farms is an Alpine goat farm and creamery located in the hills, dales, and woodlands of Northport, Michigan. 
Our Process. Our certified organic goat farm is located in Western New York (just outside Buffalo, NY) and centered on pasture raising a small herd of Alpine goats using sustainable and organic farming practices. 