Heart Health. Heart health is one area in which pycnogenol has shown benefit as a preventive agent or as an adjunct to traditional treatment. A study in the December 2005 issue of the journal Biomedical Reviews explains exactly how pycnogenol functions for heart health. Pycnogenol is the name for pine bark extract that comes from the maritime pine tree Pinas pinaster, which grows in France. Pine bark extract contains proanthocyanidins, which are antioxidants.
Pycnogenol is POSSIBLY SAFE when taken by mouth in doses of 50 mg to 450 mg daily for up to one year, and when applied to the skin as a cream for up to 7 days or as a powder for up to 6 weeks. Pycnogenol can cause dizziness, gut problems, headache, and mouth ulcers. 1 Early research suggests that chewing at least 6 pieces of gum with added pycnogenol for 14 days reduces bleeding and prevents increased plaque. 2  Diabetes. 3  Early evidence suggests that taking 50-200 mg of pycnogenol daily for 3-12 weeks slightly decreases blood sugar in people with diabetes.
What pycnogenol (pine bark extract) is: Pycnogenol, is a patented mixture of 40 or more plant chemicals, including flavonoids and antioxidants. Side effects: Pycnogenol can have unpleasant side effects (such as irritability and fatigue) and can interact with a number of drugs. Bottom line: More good clinical trials are needed. It’s not known how Pycnogenol compares to other pine bark extracts.
As with any dietary supplement, Pycnogenol is probably not beneficial for every single possible use. Of all the uses that the supplement is claimed to treat, the strongest evidence is for treating asthma, chronic venous insufficiency, high blood pressure, and retinopathy. Pycnogenol is a patented extract used in a number of dietary supplements. It is made from the French maritime pine tree and is claimed to be useful for treating a wide variety of medical conditions. Specifically, people claim that Pycnogenol is beneficial for preventing and/or treating the following conditions:
Pycnogenol contains substances that might improve blood flow. It might also stimulate the immune system and have antioxidant effects. Pycnogenol might be safe when taken in doses of 120 mg to 450 mg daily for up to 6 months. Larger doses might not be safe. Preliminary clinical research suggests pycnogenol might be safe in late pregnancy, but until more is known, pycnogenol should be avoided by pregnant women. Pycnogenol can cause dizziness, gut problems, headache and mouth ulcers.
Many people wonder what Pycnogenol ® is good for. Pycnogenol is a patented extract used in a number of dietary supplements. It is made from the French maritime pine tree and is claimed to be useful for treating a wide variety of medical conditions. Specifically, people claim that Pycnogenol is beneficial for preventing and/or treating the following conditions:
Pycnogenol is a natural plant product made from the bark of the European coastal pine, Pinus Maritima. It is the most powerful antioxidant today and acts as a protector against environmental toxins. Like Vitamins C and E, Pycnogenol (pronounced Pick-nah-geh-nol), is a trade name for proanthocyanidin, a special family of bioflavanoids, plus 40 other biologically beneficial components. It is a powerful antioxidant which neutralizes unstable or radical oxygen molecules that attack the body's cells.
People eat the fruit of the prickly pear cactus. It's also a traditional remedy for diabetes. Pycnogenol is the registered trademark name for a French formula. The active ingredients in pycnogenol can also be extracted from other sources, including peanut skin, grape seed, and witch hazel bark. There's good evidence that pycnogenol helps with eye damage caused by diabetes. More research is needed to see how this supplement affects all of these conditions. Pycnogenol may help with other conditions as well. They include: 1  Arthritis. 2  Diabetes. 3  Erectile dysfunction. 4  High cholesterol. 5  Memory problems.
by Berkeley Wellness | January 29, 2014. Print. What pycnogenol (pine bark extract) is: Pycnogenol, is a patented mixture of 40 or more plant chemicals, including flavonoids and antioxidants. It is extracted from the bark of Pinus maritima (also called Pinus pinaster), native to southern France. Side effects: Pycnogenol can have unpleasant side effects (such as irritability and fatigue) and can interact with a number of drugs. Bottom line: More good clinical trials are needed. It’s not known how Pycnogenol compares to other pine bark extracts.
Pycnogenol is an herbal dietary supplement that Today' Dietitian magazine notes is unique in its potential ability to affect a variety of health conditions. Pycnogenol is the name for pine bark extract that comes from the maritime pine tree Pinas pinaster, which grows in France. Pine bark extract contains proanthocyanidins, which are antioxidants.