Eggs that you buy from the store will not stay fresh for long  without refrigeration. Eggs that come right from the chicken can  kept at room temperature for weeks. Store bo … ught eggs should be  refrigerated within a few hours of buying them just to be safe. 1 Eggs can remain edible for even longer than a month, but freshness (egg yolk that sits firm and high, and a thick viscous egg white) will be noticeably less after two weeks. 2  If eggs start out as Grade AA, they remain AA for only two weeks if properly refrigerated. 3  After that, they'll be Grade A for another 2 weeks.
Cinthea Vadala Napa, California. Your eggs are fine. Fresh eggs actually take a long time to spoil. They would be all right under those conditions even for a couple of weeks. There’s no need to rinse the eggs until it’s time to use them, and that can actually keep them fresh longer. Enjoy your farm-fresh eggs! — Cheryl Long, Editor in Chief. Cheryl Long is the editor in chief of MOTHER EARTH NEWS magazine, and a leading advocate for more sustainable lifestyles. 8/1/2008 12:00:00 AM. By Cheryl Long. Tags: organic, eggs, food preservation. I bought free-range eggs at a local organic farm, and they sat in a cooler with some ice in it for about 30 hours.
1 Keep in mind that a room temperature egg will go bad faster than a refrigerated one. 2  I believe a counter egg will keep well past 2 weeks, but for me, if it looks like it is going to be longer than 1 week before use, I refrigerate. 
Cooked hard-boiled egg normally can last up to 2 days without refrigeration, however you will notice the outer yolk will turn grey in colour. semi-hard boiled egg can stay on room temperature for about approx. :-) I normally semi hard boil medium eggs using the Nordicware egg cooker (the one with the water in it) and break them over buttered toast and was wondering how long I can keep them at room temperature w/o requiring refrigeration. I have found that if I refrigerate the eggs and then use them the next...
The USDA also requires that eggs be sold under refrigeration, regardless of how they are washed, so even your super-crunchy health food stores are going to keep their eggs in the refrigerator or risk being shut down. Any world traveler has probably noticed that in most countries outside of the US and Canada, eggs aren't stored under refrigeration. Whether you are wandering in an outdoor market, shopping in a grocery store or visiting a home, you will find eggs sitting on the counter, at room temperature.
It can even keep eggs fresh for awhile without any refrigeration and extend refrigeration by a week at least. 1  Eggs can remain edible for even longer than a month, but freshness (egg yolk that sits firm and high, and a thick viscous egg white) will be noticeably less after two weeks. 1 Eggs can remain edible for even longer than a month, but freshness (egg yolk that sits firm and high, and a thick viscous egg white) will be noticeably less after two weeks. 2  If eggs start out as Grade AA, they remain AA for only two weeks if properly refrigerated. 3  After that, they'll be Grade A for another 2 weeks.
Hard-boiled eggs are best if used within a week. Do not freeze them. Even with its natural (but easily cracked) calcium-carbonate container, a hard-cooked egg is a perishabl … e food, so it shouldn't be kept at room temperature for more than two hours.   If kept in an unbroken shell and in the refrigerator about a week.
After eggs are refrigerated, they need to stay that way. A cold egg left out at room temperature can sweat, facilitating the movement of bacteria into the egg and increasing the growth of bacteria. Refrigerated eggs should not be left out more than 2 hours. (They also say some very sad things about Easter egg hunts.). So if you're being strict, three days would be way too long. In reality, you'd probably be okay.
I normally semi hard boil medium eggs using the Nordicware egg cooker (the one with the water in it) and break them over buttered toast and was wondering how long I can keep them at room temperature w/o requiring refrigeration. :-) I normally semi hard boil medium eggs using the Nordicware egg cooker (the one with the water in it) and break them over buttered toast and was wondering how long I can keep them at room temperature w/o requiring refrigeration. I have found that if I refrigerate the eggs and then use them the next...