Shingles, also known as zoster or herpes zoster, is a painful skin rash. It is caused by varicella zoster virus (VZV), the same virus that causes chickenpox. Nearly 1 out of every 3 people in the United States will develop shingles in their lifetime. Anyone who has had chickenpox or received chickenpox vaccine in the past may develop shingles
Shingles (also termed herpes zoster or zoster) is a disease caused by reactivation of a previous infection with the herpes zoster virus (also named varicella-zoster virus, VZV, HHV-3, or chickenpox virus) that results in a painful localized skin rash, usually with blisters (fluid-filled sacs) on top of reddish skin. 
Shingles-Topic Overview. Shingles is a painful skin rash. It is caused by the varicella zoster virus. Shingles usually appears in a band, a strip, or a small area on one side of the face or body. It is also called herpes zoster. Shingles is most common in older adults and people who have weak immune systems because of stress, injury, certain medicines, or other reasons
Cause. Shingles is caused by the varicella zoster virus (VZV), the same virus that causes chickenpox. After a person recovers from chickenpox, the virus stays dormant (inactive) in the body. For reasons that are not fully known, the virus can reactivate years later, causing shingles. 
Shingles is caused by the varicella zoster virus (VZV), the same virus that causes chickenpox. After a person recovers from chickenpox, the virus stays dormant (inactive) in the body. For reasons that are not fully known, the virus can reactivate years later, causing shingles. It is caused by varicella zoster virus (VZV), the same virus that causes chickenpox. Nearly 1 out of every 3 people in the United States will develop shingles in their lifetime.
Shingles is an infection caused by the virus varicella-zoster, which is the same virus that causes chickenpox. Even after chickenpox is treated, the virus may live on in your nerve tissues for years before reactivating as shingles. Shingles may also be referred to as herpes zoster. 
1 4,18. 2  Shingles in caused by the same virus that causes chickenpox-varicella-zoster virus. 3  Shingles is a painful infection of the nerve supplying an area of skin and is accompanied by a localised skin rash. 1 Over half of all shingles cases occur in people over the age of 60, with the burden of illness twice as high in people over 70, compared to people aged 60-69 years old. 2  4,18. 3
Shingles affects the nerves. Shingles is caused by the varicella-zoster virus — the same virus that causes chickenpox. Anyone who's had chickenpox may develop shingles. After you recover from chickenpox, the virus can enter your nervous system and lie dormant for years. 
1 Shingles in caused by the same virus that causes chickenpox-varicella-zoster virus. 2  Shingles is a painful infection of the nerve supplying an area of skin and is accompanied by a localised skin rash. 3  Older people and those with a weakened immune system are at greater risk for developing shingles. 1 Over half of all shingles cases occur in people over the age of 60, with the burden of illness twice as high in people over 70, compared to people aged 60-69 years old. 2  4,18. 3 
Shingles-Cause. Shingles is a reactivation of the varicella-zoster virus, a type of herpes virus that causes chickenpox. After you have had chickenpox, the virus lies inactive in your nerve roots and remains inactive until, in some people, it flares up again.