The European white lupin (Lupinus albus) beans are commonly sold in a salty solution in jars (like olives and pickles) and can be eaten with or without the skin. Lupini dishes are most commonly found in Europe, especially in Portugal, Spain, Greece, and Italy. They are also common in Brazil and Egypt. Some species, such as garden lupin (L. polyphyllus) and hybrids like the rainbow lupin (L. × regalis) are common garden flowers. Lupins can be good companion plants in gardens, increasing the soil nitrogen for vegetables and other plants.
Lupinus polyphyllus (large-leaved lupine, big-leaved lupine, many-leaved lupine or, primarily in cultivation, garden lupin) is a species of lupine (lupin) native to western North America from southern Alaska and British Columbia east to Quebec, and western Wyoming, and south to Utah and California. 
Lupines do not like hot weather and do best in the Northeast and Canada. They also grow well in the Pacific Northwestern U.S. and some parts of California. They also grow abundantly throughout Europe as far north as Norway. Blooming in June and July, their flowers have a noticeable honey scent and are attractive to many butterflies, as well as humming birds and bees. They come in many colours, pink, red, purple, white, violet, apricot, blue and even yellow. They have attractive blue-green, almost tropical looking leaves.
Val Bourne. Lupins provide candles of flower in May, when there's a dearth, and their peppery scent seems to lure in bumble bees. The tapering lupin spires come in every colour. The tapering lupin spires come in every colour and they provide a unique vertical in the herbaceous border-which is still mostly full of leaf. 
Annuals and Perennials, Lupinus. A member of the pea family, Lupines are a wonderful old-fashioned flower. There are annual and perennial varieties of Lupines. They bear very large, showy spikes covered with unusual pea-like florets on long, sturdy stems. Colors include white, red, pink, blue, yellow, lilac, violet, and apricot. Days to Germination: 25 - 30. How to Grow Lupine Plants : Lupine plants like full sun to partial shade. They will grow quickly to a height of 2 to 3 feet. Lupine will do well in average soils and in cool weather. The soil should be loose and lime free(they do not like lime).
Large-leaved lupine or Bigleaf lupine is a popular garden ornamental species and has been cultivated to produce a variety of colors and shades. The seeds are easy to germinate and in a landscape setting they work well in wildflower borders or moist meadows. Lupine’s are one of those plants that make it easy to convince people to create habitat. Their structure, leaves and flowers are beautiful and colorful, they bloom for a good length of time, and there is likely a species for most different habitat types.
Scent plays an important role in lupine communications. A wolf is capable of smelling the details of an odor with a dozen times more accurately than a domestic canine, and probably a hundred times more accurately than a human being. 
Some of the species include Nootka lupine (Lupinus nootkatensis), Large-leaved lupine (L. polyphyllus), Silky lupine (L. sericeus) and Small-flowered lupine (L. polycarpus). Lupine’s are one of those plants that make it easy to convince people to create habitat. Their structure, leaves and flowers are beautiful and colorful, they bloom for a good length of time, and there is likely a species for most different habitat types.
Lupinus, commonly known as lupin or lupine (North America), is a genus of flowering plants in the legume family, Fabaceae. The genus includes over 200 species, with centers of diversity in North and South America. Smaller centers occur in North Africa and the Mediterranean. Some species, such as garden lupin (L. polyphyllus) and hybrids like the rainbow lupin (L. × regalis) are common garden flowers. Lupins can be good companion plants in gardens, increasing the soil nitrogen for vegetables and other plants.
The Lupine smelled delicious! This year, same Lupine, same sweet smell. I can only say it smells like candy, not cherry or other candy flavors, just the sweet smell of candy. 15 seeds per trade. I am looking to trade for my wants, but I may be tempted by something you have that I do not, so make an offer. If anyone would like to trade, please e-mail me directly at Robin282mt@verizon.net.