One of the most controversial standup comics since Lenny Bruce, Andrew Dice Clay has brought the vulgar comedy of hatred, obscenity, and misogyny to new lows or new highs, depending on one's age and feelings about such subjects. His black leather jacketed, cigarette-puffing Diceman…. Full Andrew Dice Clay Bio. 
Andrew Dice Clay. A quick run down on Andrew...Andrew Dice Clay is one of the most offensive comedians of all time. Curse words, women bashing, telling it like it is. Basically what goes through guys minds at the time of sex comes out of his mouth for about 45 min on his Cd's.One of the most successful comedians. 
Actor | Writer | Producer. Andrew Dice Clay was born on September 29, 1957 in Brooklyn, New York, USA as Andrew Clay Silverstein. He is an actor and writer, known for Blue Jasmine (2013), The Adventures of Ford Fairlane (1990) and Dice Rules (1991). He has been married to Valerie Silverstein since February 14, 2010
Andrew Dice Clay: Indestructible, which airs on Showtime on New Years Eve, is just the beginning of Clay's big plans for 2013. The Woody Allen movie should lead to even more attention than Entourage, and he's working with writer David Ritz on his memoir. The next call was one of the most shocking moments of his life: Woody Allen wanted a meeting in New York. I just looked at him and said, I need you to know that Andrew is in the room, not the Diceman,' says Clay.
Clay was born and raised in Brooklyn, New York. He grew up in the neighborhood of Sheepshead Bay. His parents are Jacqueline and Fred Silverstein; he has one sister. Clay's father worked in real estate sales and also as a boxer. He did a character called the dice man that was wildly popular that was based on Buddy Love. Clay eventually became this character full-time in his act. Clay graduated to the major Manhattan comedy clubs, including Budd Friedman 's The Improv, Catch a Rising Star and Dangerfield's.
Mini Bio (1). Andrew Dice Clay was born on September 29, 1957 in Brooklyn, New York, USA as Andrew Clay Silverstein. He is an actor and writer, known for Blue Jasmine (2013), The Adventures of Ford Fairlane (1990) and Dice Rules (1991). He has been married to Valerie Silverstein since February 14, 2010