Types. There are two main types of nucleic acids: two-stranded deoxyribonucleic acid, also known as DNA, and single-stranded ribonucleic acid, also known as RNA. DNA is the primary genetic storage molecule of animals, plants, fungi and other higher organisms known as eukaryotes. Nucleotides, the sub-units comprising nucleic acids, consist of a five-carbon sugar attached to a phosphate as well as to a nitrogen-containing base. The sugar portion of RNA is ribose and of DNA is deoxyribose. This distinction gives rise to the 'R' in RNA and the 'D' in DNA.
Properties of nucleic acids are as follows:Nucleic acids (DNA and RNA) are long polymers made of repeating units of nucleotides. Nucleotide units are made of phosphate-sugar-nitrogenous base units.The nitrogenous bases found in DNA are adenine, guanine, cytosine and thymine. Types of Nucleic Acids. 1  DNA is one of the macromolecules, they are essential to all living forms. 2  Deoxyribonucleic acid contains the genetic information, it is used in the development and functioning of all living organisms. 3  The DNA segments carry genetic information are called the genes.
Nucleic Acids are biopolymers, or large biomolecules, essential for all known forms of life. Nucleic acids, which include DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) and RNA (ribonucleic acid), are made from monomers known as nucleotides. Each nucleotide has three components: a 5-carbon sugar, a phosphate group, and a nitrogenous base. If the sugar is deoxyribose, the polymer is DNA. If the sugar is ribose, the polymer is RNA. 
Best Answer: The five types of nucleic acids are Constituents DNA, RNA, Nucleic acid analogues, and Cloning vectors. See fig. Types of Nucleic acids: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nucleic_aci... Here you find a list of nucleic acids: http://www.bvl.bund.de/nn_1115098/EN/06_... 
There are five chief types of components in nucleic acids: cytosine, guanine, thymine, uracil, and adenine. Whether the acid contains uracil or thymine determines whether it is DNA (thymine) or RNA (uracil). Examples of Nucleic Acids: 1. DNA. Deoxyribonucleic acid, also known as DNA, is a well-known component in genetics. It contains all of the genetic information for a living organism, carried as long strings of information called genes. These genes are found in the nucleus of the cells.
The many examples of nucleic acids including RNA (ribonucleic acid) and DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) are composed of monomers called nucleotides. A nucleotide contains 3 components: a nitrogenous base, a phosphate group and a 5-carbon sugar. If the sugar is ribose, then its polymer is RNA. 1. DNA. DNA is one of the examples of nucleic acids that holds the genetic information which is important in the functioning and development of all living things. The genetic information carried on the DNA segments is called genes. DNA is made up of two polymers that are formed by smaller units called nucleotides
DNA consists of deoxyribose sugar, however a ribose sugar is present in RNA backbone. Purine bases are similar in both nucleic acids while pyrimidine base are different. DNA contains thymine (T) and cytosine(C) but RNA is made up of cytosine(C) and Uracil (U) . Unlike DNA, RNA is a single strand nucleic acid involves in protein synthesis. Two pentose sugars are present in nucleic acids, ribose or deoxyribose sugar. DNA contains I²-î²-d-2 deoxyribose sugar WHILE rna CONTAINS-I²-î² d. Ribose sugar both sugars are differing only in the presence of one oxygen Atom at c. 2 position
1 Nucleic acids (DNA and RNA) are long polymers made of repeating units of nucleotides. 2  Nucleotide units are made of phosphate-sugar-nitrogenous base units. 3  The nitrogenous bases found in DNA are adenine, guanine, cytosine and thymine. 4  Adenine and guanine are purine bases while cytosine and thymine are pyrimidnes. Types of Nucleic Acids. 1  DNA is one of the macromolecules, they are essential to all living forms. 2  Deoxyribonucleic acid contains the genetic information, it is used in the development and functioning of all living organisms. 3  The DNA segments carry genetic information are called the genes.
Nucleic acids are large organic compounds found in the chromosomes of living cells and viruses. They are strong acids found in the nucleus of the cells. The nucleic acid polymers are with high molecular weights as high as 100,000,000 grams per mole. Types of Nucleic Acids. 1  DNA is one of the macromolecules, they are essential to all living forms. 2  Deoxyribonucleic acid contains the genetic information, it is used in the development and functioning of all living organisms. 3  The DNA segments carry genetic information are called the genes.