Your normal heart rate, or pulse, is the number of times your heart beats per minute. ... To find out your resting heart rate, find your pulse – at your wrist, neck, back of a knee or ankle – and count the beats for 1 full minute. ... Rate This Article: Currently 3/5 Stars. How to measure your resting heart rate: Find your resting heart rate either with a heart-rate monitor or by self-testing (take your pulse for 10 ... Is your child growing at a  normal  rate? Find out how your child measures up to children of the same sex and age. ...
Results continued... The chart below shows the normal range of a resting heart rate (pulse rate after resting 10 minutes) in beats per minute, according to age. Many things can cause changes in your normal heart rate, including your age, activity level, and the time of day
A normal resting heart rate can range anywhere from 40 to 100 beats per minute. Below is a chart relating resting heart rate and fitness level. As can be seen on this chart, your resting heart rate can vary with your fitness level and with age — the fitter you are, generally the lower the resting heart rate. 
Heart rate, also known as pulse, is the number of times a person's heart beats per minute. A normal heart rate depends on the individual, age, body size, heart conditions, whether the person is sitting or moving, medication use and even air temperature. Even emotions can have an impact on heart rate. For example, getting excited or scared can increase the heart rate.
For adults 18 and older, a normal resting heart rate is between 60 and 100 beats per minute (bpm), depending on the person’s physical condition and age. For children ages 6 to 15, the normal resting heart rate is between 70 and 100 bpm, according to the AHA. A normal heart rate depends on the individual, age, body size, heart conditions, whether the person is sitting or moving, medication use and even air temperature. Even emotions can have an impact on heart rate. For example, getting excited or scared can increase the
The normal resting adult human heart rate ranges from 60–100 bpm. Tachycardia is a fast heart rate, defined as above 100 bpm at rest. Bradycardia is a slow heart rate, defined as below 60 bpm at rest. During sleep a slow heartbeat with rates around 40–50 BPM is common and is considered normal. 
1 Normal values for pulse rate depend on age and fitness level. 2  A normal adult has a pulse rate of 72 per minute and an athlete s pulse rate maybe below 50 per minute. 3  Patients with an average resting pulse rate above 70 beats per minute can have a slightly higher incidence of heart attacks. 
Resting Pulse Rate. The National Institutes of Health state that 60 to 100 beats per minute is considered normal for a resting pulse rate. Any female over 10 years of age should fall within this resting pulse rate range, unless they are well-trained athletically. In this situation, the normal resting heart rate can be as low as 40 to 60 beats per minute, maintains MayoClinic.com. For women, a normal resting heart rate isn't different than in a man. The National Institutes of Health state that 60 to 100 beats per minute is considered normal for a resting pulse rate. Any female over 10 years of age should fall within this resting pulse rate range, unless they are well-trained athletically.