Sciatica: Sciatic Nerve Pain Symptoms, diagnosis and treatment. Sciatica is a common type of pain caused by compression or irritation of the sciatic nerve. The sciatic nerve is the longest nerve in the body, going from the pelvis, through the buttocks, down the legs to the feet. Having a slipped disc in the back is a most common cause of sciatica, but sometimes doctors do not find an obvious cause of the pain. Sciatica is caused by irritation of the sciatic nerve. A slipped disc is the most common cause of sciatica. Additional common causes of sciatica include: 1  Lumbar spinal stenosis (narrowing of the spinal canal in the lower back). 2  Degenerative disc disease (breakdown of discs, which act as cushions between the vertebrae).
How To Treat Sciatica – The Symptoms Sciatica is the medical term used to describe a pain that radiates anywhere along the path of the sciatic nerve. The sciatic nerve starts from each side of the lower back, travels down the back of the thigh, and into the foot. How To Treat Sciatica – Anti-Inflammatory Treatment Probably the fastest way to get relief from Sciatica is from anti inflammatory medications. As your sciatic pain is being caused by an inflamed nerve, by reducing the inflammation you will reduce the pain.
http://www.SukieBaxter.com How to stretch your sciatic nerve-this is the best sciatica stretch to use if you suffer from sciatic nerve pain, also commonly called sciatica or piriformis syndrome. This simple stretch eases sciatic pain by lengthening your lateral rotator muscles, through which your sciatic nerve runs. 
Sciatica is leg pain caused by a pinched nerve in the lower back. Although the pangs begin in nerve roots located on either side of the lower spine, they then course through the sciatic nerve, which runs the length of each leg from the buttock down to the foot. 
The sciatic nerve is the largest nerve in the body, running from the base of the spinal cord to the feet. Sometimes a vertebral disk may bulge out of place and pinch the sciatic nerve. This can cause mild or severe throbbing of the back and leg. 1 Bed rest has not been proven to be beneficial in treating a pinched sciatic nerve, but it has been the standard treatment since the 1930s. 2  Sciatica tends to recur, especially if the bulging disk is not surgically repaired. 3  Pinched nerve should feel better in a few days but can take up to several weeks.
Shares & Saves. Save. Sciatic nerve pain or sciatica is a very painful condition though not life-threatening. The pain from sciatica is a sharp pain with numbness in the lower back that radiates to the buttocks and into the legs, often past the knee area. As you take a step and put pressure on one or both legs, the pain can be very intense. 
How to Treat Sciatic Nerve Pain. Sections. Sciatica is the name given to a collection of symptoms characterized by pain originating in the low back or buttocks and radiating down the posterior thigh as far as the lower leg and foot. The condition may occur on one side or bilaterally.
Sciatica is a painful injury involving strain or damage to the sciatic nerve, which begins in your spine and runs down your leg. Various options exist to treat sciatica, depending on whether the pain you experience is acute or chronic and where the underlying cause of the pain originates. Learn how to successfully manage the pain caused by sciatic nerve damage and a spectrum of ways to treat sciatica with these treatment options. Ad
Sciatica is pain, tingling, or numbness produced by an irritation of the nerve roots that lead to the sciatic nerve. The sciatic nerve is formed by the nerve roots coming out of the spinal cord into the lower back. It goes down through the buttock, then its branches extend down the back of the leg to the ankle and foot. Additional treatment for sciatica depends on what is causing the nerve irritation. If your symptoms do not improve, your doctor may suggest physical therapy, injections of medicines such as steroids, stronger medicines such as muscles relaxants or opiates, or even surgery for severe cases.