Exchange Rates: Rupiah-Foreign Currency. These are the currency exchange rates, for the Indonesian Rupiah, of Thursday, Oct 15 20:58:01, Bali Time (GMT+8) . The rates here are the average rates, if you buy currency you will pay a little more, and if you sell your currency you will get a little less. 
Tweet. Indonesia currency, the rupiah, looks different to the currency you use in your own country, not only the colors and the patterns, but the denominations. Right now the exchange rate for the US$ is 8,996.95rp. That means if you cash in a $100 dollar bill, you’ll get 899,695.00rp. Sounds easy doesn’t it. 
Bali is an island and province of Indonesia. The province includes the island of Bali and a few smaller neighbouring islands, notably Nusa Penida, Nusa Lembongan, and Nusa Ceningan. It is located at the westernmost end of the Lesser Sunda Islands, between Java to the west and Lombok to the east. Bali is a popular tourist destination and is renowned for its highly developed arts, including traditional and modern dance, sculpture, painting, leather, metalworking, and music. The Indonesian International Film Festival is held every year in Bali.
Bali, one of the Indonesian islands in the South Pacific, uses Indonesia's rupiah as its main form of currency. Travelers heading to the island must ensure they have an understanding of the rupiah in advance to avoid being given an incorrect amount of change or an unfair exchange rate. Rupiah coins come in denominations of Rp 25, 50, 100, 500 and a new gold and silver Rp 1,000 coin, with both old and newly issued coin designs in circulation for Rp 500, 100 and 50 coins. As of publication, a U.S. dollar is worth just over 10,000 rupiahs.
Indonesia, Rupiah. The Indonesian Rupiah is the currency of Indonesia. Our currency rankings show that the most popular Indonesia Rupiah exchange rate is the IDR to AUD rate. The currency code for Rupiahs is IDR, and the currency symbol is Rp. Below, you'll find Indonesian Rupiah rates and a currency converter. 
Counterfeiting is a widespread problem in Bali, with Rp 20,000 and Rp 50,000 notes being the most commonly counterfeited bills. When exchanging money in Bali, inspect all bills and ask for new notes if the original bills do not seem authentic or have been damaged. Rupiah coins come in denominations of Rp 25, 50, 100, 500 and a new gold and silver Rp 1,000 coin, with both old and newly issued coin designs in circulation for Rp 500, 100 and 50 coins. As of publication, a U.S. dollar is worth just over 10,000 rupiahs.
Rupee (INR) is the currency of India, while Rupiah (IDR) is the currency of Indonesia. Please take a note on this. To convert Australia Dollars – AUD into Indonesia Rupiahs (IDR) is easy. Usually, you can exchange it in your country before you leave for Bali. The location is in Kuta area, about 15 minutes drive from airport. Convert Australians Dollar in to Bali currency, that is Indonesia Rupiah, is also easy via only. You can please visit our Currency Page and convert the money there, online.
Or, outside of the airport, there is a famous authorized money change in Bali, called Central Kuta. The location is in Kuta area, about 15 minutes drive from airport. Convert Australians Dollar in to Bali currency, that is Indonesia Rupiah, is also easy via only. You can please visit our Currency Page and convert the money there, online.
The Indonesian currency is called Rupiah and the currency that can be accepted by the market in Indonesia are consisted of the currencies from the country that have a lot of trade with Indonesia such as United Kingdom, United State, most countries in Europe, Australia and some of the countries in Asia. Dollar. For those of you who carry the American Dollar to Indonesia, it helps you to pay attention to this currency tips because there are no real rules apply in the Indonesia market against the US Dollar and could affect the dollar that you have brought are not accepted.