The loggerhead sea turtle has a low reproductive rate; females lay an average of four egg clutches and then become quiescent, producing no eggs for two to three years. The loggerhead sea turtle (Caretta caretta), or loggerhead, is an oceanic turtle distributed throughout the world.
Status. Loggerhead sea turtles and eggs are hunted extensively in many parts of the world. In the U. S., however, the main threat is from raccoons and wild boar which eat the eggs. On some nesting beaches, raccoons may destroy more than 95 percent of the nests. Encroaching human populations are also a threat. The loggerhead sea turtle is perhaps the most common of the sea turtles and the only one that still regularly nests on the U. S. Atlantic Coast, on beaches from New Jersey to Texas. This reddish-brown turtle averages 3 feet (.9 m) in length and weighs 300 pounds (136 kg)
The loggerhead sea turtle is the world's second largest hard-shelled turtle. Adults have an average weight range of 80 to 200 kg (180 to 440 lb) and a length range of 70 to 95 cm (28 to 37 in). The maximum reported weight is 545 kg (1,202 lb) and the maximum carapace length is 213 cm (84 in). The loggerhead sea turtle (Caretta caretta), or loggerhead, is an oceanic turtle distributed throughout the world.
Loggerhead sea turtles were once intensively hunted for their meat and eggs; consumption has decreased, however, due to worldwide legislation. Despite this, turtle meat and eggs are still consumed in countries where regulations are not strictly enforced. The loggerhead sea turtle (Caretta caretta), or loggerhead, is an oceanic turtle distributed throughout the world.
They are less likely to be hunted for their meat or shell compared to other sea turtles. Bycatch, the accidental capture of marine animals in fishing gear, is a serious problem for loggerhead turtles because they frequently come in contact with fisheries. Loggerheads are the most common turtle in the Mediterranean, nesting on beaches from Greece and Turkey to Israel and Libya. The way loggerhead turtles feed on their hard-shelled prey recycles important nutrients and keeps ocean floor sediments in balance. Loggerhead turtles carry colonies of small plants and animals on their shells which serve as important habitat themselves.
The loggerhead is the most common sea turtle in southeastern U. S. They nest along the Atlantic coast of Florida, South Carolina, Geor-gia, and North Carolina and along the coast of the Gulf of Mexico. The east coast of Florida is one of the two most important places in the world for loggerhead nesting. Loggerhead turtles have long been hunted for their eggs and for leather. Today in the U.S. this is no longer legal, but some hunting continues. Loggerheads also become entangled or drown in shrimp trawls and other fishing gear. Pollution and marine debris are another threat to sea turtles in the water.
The loggerhead sea turtle is found in the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian Oceans, as well as the Mediterranean Sea. The loggerhead sea turtle (Caretta caretta), or loggerhead, is an oceanic turtle distributed throughout the world.
Loggerhead Sea Turtle. Genus: Caretta Species: caretta. Loggerheads were named for their relatively large heads, which support powerful jaws and enable them to feed on hard-shelled prey, such as whelks and conch. Loggerhead sea turtles are protected by various international treaties and agreements as well as national laws such as the U.S. Endangered Species Act (ESA). In 2008 NOAA's National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) and the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service (USFWS) updated the recovery plan for the loggerhead turtle.