DNA is the biochemical code in the nucleus of each of your cells. DNA stores your hereditary information within each cell of your body. Your biology was created under the direction of your DNA. It is unique to you. Only you have your DNA, unless you are a twin or from a multiple birth.
Scientists have long assumed that memories and learned experiences built up during a lifetime must be passed on by teaching later generations or through personal experience. However, new research has shown that it is possible for some information to be inherited biologically through chemical changes that occur in DNA.
I’ve seen a number of commercials on TV from a company named 23andMe, a personal genome testing company who provide kits so you can send in a saliva sample which allows them to analyze your DNA and produce several reports outlining your inherited risk factors of disease, inherited traits, ancestry and genealogy.
Memories may be passed down through generations in DNA in a process that may be the underlying cause of phobias.
They also have a patent pending on a process to bind the DNA to a substance which can be stored at room temperature indefinitely. A number of Funeral Homes in Canada and the US are currently using DNA Memorial. There are many other DNA storage companies that partner with Funeral Homes around the world.
Memories can be passed down to later generations through genetic switches that allow offspring to inherit the experience of their ancestors, according to new research that may explain how phobias can develop.
Behaviour can be affected by events in previous generations which have been passed on through a form of genetic memory, animal studies suggest. Experiments showed that a traumatic event could affect the DNA in sperm and alter the brains and behaviour of subsequent generations.
Scientists have found that memories may be passed down through generations in our DNA. New research from Emory University School of Medicine, in Atlanta, has shown that it is possible for some information to be inherited biologically through chemical changes that occur in DNA.
Behaviour can be affected by events in previous generations which have been passed on through a form of genetic memory, animal studies suggest. Experiments showed that a traumatic event could affect the DNA in sperm and alter the brains and behaviour of subsequent generations.