I’m glad to hear you have taken up the laminate floor. Yes, you can put ceramic tile directly on clean, level concrete. In this case, neither cement board nor backer board serves any purpose. I would recommend that you consider using this product first: RedGard from the Home Depot: LINK. You can read an excellent post on tile over concrete by aboveaveragejoe here: LINK. 
I have been told that laminate flooring can be installed over ceramic tile without removing the tile. This would make the floor different heights where the present tile and carpet meet (another potential problem). We also might use engineered hardwood which, I understand, will require the removal of the tile floor. 
In this photo to the left, I installed laminate tile over the ceramic tile. You can see at the doorway with the laminate on top of the ceramic tile it creates a higher floor. In this case I will have to install a square edge transition so the carpet can be installed up to it. CLICK ON PHOTOS TO ENLARGE. When you install laminate flooring over ceramic tile up to dishwashers, you need the laminate flooring to go under the front legs of the dishwasher. If the front of the dishwasher is not sitting on the laminate you may not be able to remove the dishwasher in the future.
In my opinion, yes you can install laminate over tile if the tile is in good condition/stable and even. You would first put underlayment above … the tile and then the laminate on top. (you always add underlayment before laminate). It is important, though, to make sure you have enough clearance for the doors (you may need to shave the doors). No. Generally wood flooring needs to be nailed down. You may be able to get away with installing a floating laminate floor over the tile, but I would check with the ma … ker of the laminate floor for it's installation recommendations.
Hi Dorothy, The short answer is yes, you can install laminate flooring over a ceramic tile floor, if the tile floor is in good condition, and the tile are well attached, level, and flat. The process would be the same as installing a laminate floor on a concrete slab. 
Special adhesives make ceramic tiles stick to almost any surface. Installing ceramic tile directly over old laminate flooring can save time, effort and money for the skilled do-it-yourselfer with the the proper toolkit. Often the most difficult and time consuming part of a home improvement project is the demolition. Rough the old laminate flooring with an orbital sander. Remove the plastic or polymer covering of the laminate with the sander, leaving the entire old floor rough. This is necessary for the new tile to stick. Be sure to rough along the edges and do not miss spots on the floor.
You can also install laminate over existing floors made of wood, concrete, ceramic tile, vinyl sheet, or even carpet (Carpet must be fully adhered and no more than 1/4 thick over suspended wood subfloors.). Laminate flooring is one of the most versatile and easy-to-maintain floor coverings on the market today. These floors look like authentic hardwood, stone, tile, and other materials in a wide range of styles and colors.
There may be times when you want to install laminate flooring over ceramic tile. Most of the time ceramic tile is a lot of work to remove, not to mention it can be dangerous. Ceramic tile is like glass when it breaks. The edges are really sharp. CLICK ON PHOTOS TO ENLARGE. When you install laminate flooring over ceramic tile up to dishwashers, you need the laminate flooring to go under the front legs of the dishwasher. If the front of the dishwasher is not sitting on the laminate you may not be able to remove the dishwasher in the future.
If your tile floor is level and even, you should be able to install laminate flooring over it. Check out our article on Laying Wood Flooring Over Tile to find out more. Of course with laminate, you won’t glue the flooring down, like you would with wood or engineered wood flooring. You can also tile directly over an existing tile floor as long as it is sound. As with vinyl, clean it first so the mortar will adhere well to the old tile. For more information on tiling, check out our articles Tiling a Floor and Installing Tile Over a Wood Subfloor.