In Texas if you wish to work as a bartender or alcohol seller/server, it is required that you have a TABC card, which is a Texas Alcohol Beverage Commission certification card. This means that you need to pass an approved Responsible Serving training course. 
State, county and city laws govern how old a person must be to legally bartend. As with most laws, the strictest applicable law is the one that must be followed. We have listed the STATE mandated bartending age in the table below for each state. 
Bartending Age-Varies by State & City. State, county and city laws govern how old a person must be to legally bartend. As with most laws, the strictest applicable law is the one that must be followed. We have listed the STATE mandated bartending age in the table below for each state. Before making any decision about being a bartender, you should verify the correct age for your city if you are near the legal minimum. The state and/or city government website is a good place to start. Our schools train people of all ages and backgrounds. Our students range from 18 to 75 years of age. Regardless of your age or background there will always be a bar for you. Just like the customers that vary with each bar, the bartenders age usually follows that of the crowd they serve.
1 In New York the law is 18 or over to serve alcohol. 2  How much bartenders earn depends on the city and the type of establishment you are working at. 3  There is no denying that bartending is a very lucrative job. 4  In New York bartenders average $250 to $400 a shift, with some making way more than that. 1 How much bartenders earn depends on the city and the type of establishment you are working at. 2  There is no denying that bartending is a very lucrative job. 3
Depending on the state you plan to tend bar in, the age minimum is a little different. In some states, an 18 year old can tend bar, while in other states you have to be 21. Here’s a quick guide to each state’s minimum age required to become a bartender: Alabama 21 Illinois 21 Montana 18 Rhode Island 18. Your job as a bartender will be easier and restaurants and bars more likely to hire you if you complete your bartender certification. A bartending certification course can cost hundreds of dollars depending on the type of “bartender school” you choose.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: TABC certification classes-you can do it online. But if you have never bartended I recommend going to bartending school as there is a lot to know if you work in a full-service bar. You have to be 21 I think. Look in the back of the Houston Press-I went to ABC I think-on Richmond. It takes 2-3 weeks. 
Yet another reason that if I ever leave the great state of Texas you bet I will not set foot in Indiana. Even more strange is Illinois where you can serve at the age of 18...unless you are in the windy city of Chicago (which is the third largest in the nation) then you have to wait till you are 21. There are a plethora of different types of bars in the world, meaning there are a plethora of bartenders working in those bars! A bar with a clietele that skews younger (like a nightlcub on 6th street or clubs in downtown Houston) looks to hire people around the same age of their clientele.