1 Gum Bleeding. 2  Bleeding of the gums, even during brushing, is a sign of inflammation and the major marker of periodontal disease. 3  One exception is juvenile periodontitis, in which symptoms are mild or even absent. 4  It should be noted that the gums of smokers with periodontal disease tend to bleed less than nonsmokers. In general, symptoms progress over time and include: 1  Red and Swollen Gums. 2  Gum Bleeding. 3  Bleeding of the gums, even during brushing, is a sign of inflammation and the major marker of periodontal disease.
Lupus, also known as systemic lupus erythematosus, is an autoimmune disease that can affect almost any part of the body, especially the skin, blood, joints, kidneys, heart, lungs, and brain. Two common symptoms of lupus are a butterfly-shaped rash on the face and extreme sensitivity to sunlight. Read More. 
Several other conditions can also cause gum inflammation, and some have been associated with periodontal disease. They include: 1  Mouth breathing. 2  Psychologic stress. 3  Stress can affect the immune system. 4  Some studies suggest that stress can influence the development of chronic inflammatory diseases, like periodontitis. In general, symptoms progress over time and include: 1  Red and Swollen Gums. 2  Gum Bleeding. 3  Bleeding of the gums, even during brushing, is a sign of inflammation and the major marker of periodontal disease.
Introduction. Periodontal disease is gum disease. The word “periodontal” means “around the tooth.” Periodontal disease is a chronic inflammatory disease of the gum and tissues that surround and support the teeth. If left untreated, periodontal disease can lead to tooth loss. Bacterial infections that cause moderate-to-severe periodontal disease in pregnant women may increase the risk for premature delivery and low birth weight infants. The bacteria from gum disease and tooth decay may trigger the same factors in the immune system that cause premature dilation and contractions.
This evidence of autoimmunity explains why regular flossing helps prevent periodontal problems, and it also explains why some people are affected by periodontal disease more than other people. This theory can also be linked to the fact that the risk of both periodontal disease and autoimmune disorders increase with age. The Periodontal Immune Response. Cytokines are important for healing, but when pro-inflammatory cytokines are produced in excess, they cause inflammation and tissue damage. Periodontal disease can cause the teeth to loosen and decay. Individuals with periodontal disease may experience bleeding of the gums when brushing, which is often the first sign of a problem. The gums may also appear swollen and recede away from the teeth.
Many adults in the U.S. currently have some form of the disease. Periodontal diseases range from simple gum inflammation to serious disease that results in major damage to the soft tissue and bone that support the teeth. In the worst cases, teeth are lost. Symptoms of gum disease include: 1  Bad breath that won’t go away. 2  Red or swollen gums. 3  Tender or bleeding gums. 4  Painful chewing. 5  Loose teeth. 6  Sensitive teeth. 7  Receding gums or longer appearing teeth.
Evidence indicates that periodontal disease is an autoimmune disorder triggered by infectious organisms and an abnormal immune response to collagen. Periodontal disease is an inflammatory condition affecting both the gums and the deep structures that house the roots of the teeth. Periodontal disease can cause the teeth to loosen and decay. Individuals with periodontal disease may experience bleeding of the gums when brushing, which is often the first sign of a problem. The gums may also appear swollen and recede away from the teeth.
The bacteria cause inflammation of the gums that is called “gingivitis.” In gingivitis, the gums become red, swollen and can bleed easily. Gingivitis is a mild form of gum disease that can usually be reversed with daily brushing and flossing, and regular cleaning by a dentist or dental hygienist. Symptoms of gum disease include: 1  Bad breath that won’t go away. 2  Red or swollen gums. 3  Tender or bleeding gums. 4  Painful chewing. 5  Loose teeth. 6  Sensitive teeth. 7  Receding gums or longer appearing teeth.