Review: Spiceworks network management. Spiceworks is designed for any network manager looking to keep tabs on the status of their network, but without paying a steep price. By Jack Wallen | in Product Spotlight, April 15, 2010, 1:29 AM PST
I confess that Spiceworks isn't wholly Webware: It's software that must be installed on a PC and which runs in the background (download link). It does not, however, require that the monitored PCs run any software aside from the built-in administrative processes that run in Windows by default. Spiceworks scans a PC's local network and reports on the health of various items. You can tell which printers are running out of ink, which PCs have out-of-date virus scanners, and so on. To monitor PCs, you need to be a systems administrator with a network administrator login for the computers in your office.
The Spiceworks service is not just a website; it is a social IT management application that combines the tools you need to manage your network, with information about IT products and services, and advice and expertise from other IT professionals like you, to dramatically simplify your day-to-day job. This Privacy Policy is incorporated by reference into the Spiceworks Terms of Use or other legal document applicable to your relationship with Spiceworks.
It is the responsibility of the end user installing SpiceWorks, and not the author of this document, to verify any information contained herein. The title of this How-To is a popular question in the community and I thought it would be helpful to put together an article where everything is all in one place. 3. “But I work for a Government entity/HIPAA or other highly restrictive organization.”. SpiceWorks is as secure as anything else internally on your network. But there are always steps you can take to make it more secure should you wish.
This account information is never sent to Spiceworks. http://community.spiceworks.com/help/What_Does_Spiceworks_Do_With_My_Password%3F. “For your protection, your password is never sent to Spiceworks. A one-way hash of your password is stored in the local database on your machine and secured using standard Windows file-system techniques. 3. “But I work for a Government entity/HIPAA or other highly restrictive organization.”. SpiceWorks is as secure as anything else internally on your network. But there are always steps you can take to make it more secure should you wish.
All of the account information you provide to the Spiceworks Desktop is stored locally on your computer. The user names are encoded and the passwords are encrypted. This information is used only to provide the remote inventory functionality outlined above. 3. “But I work for a Government entity/HIPAA or other highly restrictive organization.”. SpiceWorks is as secure as anything else internally on your network. But there are always steps you can take to make it more secure should you wish.
Spiceworks is an online community where users can collaborate and seek advice from one another and also engage in a marketplace to purchase IT-related services and products. The network is estimated to be used by more than six million IT professionals and 3,000 technology vendors. Spiceworks offers its professional network and software free to users. The company generates most of its revenue through the sale of ads displayed on its network. A small percentage of its revenue is generated through purchases of IT products and services Spiceworks users make through the Spiceworks platform.
tumblr. Monitor your network devices for problems (in this case, low ink levels) with Spiceworks. I'm sure I'm going to get in trouble with the CNET IT team for this, but I just set up my computer to run Spiceworks, a business network scanning and monitoring application. Spiceworks scans a PC's local network and reports on the health of various items. You can tell which printers are running out of ink, which PCs have out-of-date virus scanners, and so on. To monitor PCs, you need to be a systems administrator with a network administrator login for the computers in your office.
Spiceworks is a professional network for the information technology (IT) industry that is headquartered in Austin, Texas. The company was founded in January 2006 by Scott Abel, Jay Hallberg, Greg Kattawar, and Francis Sullivan to build IT management software. Spiceworks offers its professional network and software free to users. The company generates most of its revenue through the sale of ads displayed on its network. A small percentage of its revenue is generated through purchases of IT products and services Spiceworks users make through the Spiceworks platform.