1 Santoprene is an advanced, crosslinked thermoplastic elastomer. 2  It processes as a plastic, yet performs with the flexibility and durability of rubber. 3  The unique combination of features found only in Santoprene provides advantages in both performance and cost.
As one of the best examples of thermoplastic rubber on the market today, Santoprene® is used in a number of applications. It is a thermoplastic compound that is processed in much the same way as any type of plastic.
Santoprene Chemical Resistance: Santoprene is a thermoplastic rubber designed to offer chemical resistance equivalent to neoprene. It is resistant to a wide variety of solvents and chemicals. It is not readily soluble in common solvents but will swell in aromatic solvents and halogenated organic solvents.
Santoprene NSF-61 grade is a Thermoplastic Elastomer (TPE) made from a cross link mixture of EPDM rubber and Polypropylene. This combination offers excellent flexibility and durability that are consistent with natural rubber.
Santoprene is a thermoplastic rubber that offers: 1  Santoprene is an advanced, crosslinked thermoplastic elastomer. 2  It processes as a plastic, yet performs with the flexibility and durability of rubber. 3  The unique combination of features found only in Santoprene provides advantages in both performance and cost.
Santoprene thermoplastic vulcanizates (TPV) are part of the thermoplastic elastomer (TPE) family of polymers, but are closest in elastomeric properties to EPDM thermoset rubber, combining the characteristics of vulcanized rubber with the processing properties of thermoplastics.
1) Santoprene is polypropylene cross linked with EPDM rubber. Not to be used as a modifier. If you want to modify another polymer, use Exxon Mobil Exxelor or other impact modifier. 2) Santoprene does *not* have PVC in it, or a flame retardant, unless you're looking at one of the specialty grades.
Santoprene thermoplastic rubber is a family of high-performance elastomers which combine the performance characteristics of vulcanized rubber, such as flexibility and low compression set, with the processing ease of thermoplastics. It is the mixture of in-situ cross linking of EPDM rubber and polypropylene.
Sherwood Industries Inc. is your source for Extruded Santoprene Rubber Sheet. We are manufacturers of this fine product. By coming to Sherwood you are coming to the source. We specialize in making each order to suit our customers individual requirements but we are not too big to accept smaller orders.