The upper lip is skin-covered, skin-colored, and hairy. The pink parts are called the upper and lower vermilion, the border between the skin and the vermilion is called the vermilion border, the wet, shiny inner portion of what people call the lips is called the wet vermilion or the mucosa. So, you see, Elliot has given you the accurate response. I have found that the area circled in figure 2, the small indentation under the nose, is called the philtrum, which is what the many searches I have tried have yielded, but I cannot figure out what the entire area is called.
Composed of bones and cartilages, the framework of the nose is covered with skin that is lined with mucous membrane. The bones in the upper part of the nose act as a support structure. The nasal bridge (or dorsum) is formed by two nasal bones that are joined in the center. On the sides of the nose, the nasal bones are connected to the face by a fibrous membrane. At the base, nasal cartilage connects the nasal bones. The lower part of the nose is made up of cartilages that form the tip of the nose and nostrils. 
Report Abuse. The area between the two ridges is called the philtrum. A piercing here is called a Medusa. If you would like one side-either the right or left side-of the ridges pierced, that is called a Monroe. Getting both sides pierced is called Angelbites. Best Answer: There is no special word for that place, it's just called your 'upper lip'. What you want is called a Monroe piercing, also sometimes called a Madonna or Joan Crawford. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monroe_pier...
The pink triangular area in between the eye itself and the bridge of the nose is called the lacrimal caruncle. The flesh colored area that is closure still to the nose b … ut still appears to be part of the eye is the medial commissure. 
For the publishing house, see Philtrum Press. The philtrum (Latin: philtrum, Greek: φίλτρον philtron), or medial cleft, is a vertical groove in the middle area of the upper lip, common to many mammals, extending from the nose to the upper lip. In most mammals, the philtrum is a narrow groove that may carry moisture from the mouth to the rhinarium or nose pad through capillary action, to keep the nose wet. A wet nose pad is able to trap odor particles better than a dry one, thus it greatly enhances the function of the olfactory system.
The nasal anatomy is very complicated. The support of your nose is made of nasal bones (which are not moveable and which you can feel between your eyelids) and of cartilage (which is moveable and makes up the support of the middle part and end of your nose (nasal tip). The attachments of your nostrils on each side to your cheeks are called alae. If your nasal septum is crooked or deviated because it grew that way, or because you suffered a nasal injury with a fracture of your nose and septum, then the outside shape of your nose may be crooked in the same way.
A human nose from the front. The visible part of the human nose is the protruding part of the face that bears the nostrils. The shape of the nose is determined by the ethmoid bone and the nasal septum, which consists mostly of cartilage and which separates the nostrils. On average the nose of a male is larger than that of a female.
The area where the nose and throat meet is called the nasopharynx. If you have cancer here it’s called nasopharyngeal cancer. This is a different type from nasal and paranasal sinus cancer and is dealt with in a different section of the website. The area where the nose and throat meet is called the nasopharynx. If you have cancer here it’s called nasopharyngeal cancer. This is a different type from nasal and paranasal sinus cancer and is dealt with in the nasopharyngeal cancer section.
The lower part of the nose is made up of cartilages which are responsible for the shape of external features of the nose. The nose bridge and the septal cartilage form the nasal septum. This nasal septum separates the nostrils. The attachments of your nostrils on each side to your cheeks are called alae. If your nasal septum is crooked or deviated because it grew that way, or because you suffered a nasal injury with a fracture of your nose and septum, then the outside shape of your nose may be crooked in the same way.