The best age to neuter a Chihuahua is between the age of 8 weeks and 6 months. There are reasons for this. Limited studies have shown that neutering a male at a very young age (6 weeks old or earlier) has shown to cause the legs to develop slightly longer than normal and cause slightly less muscular development. For this reason, the age to have a Chihuahua spayed is between 8 weeks old and 3 months. This breed may enter puberty anytime between the age of 4 months to 7 months; therefore the 3 month mark is a safe age. Reasons for delaying this would be if the Chihuahua is undersized and struggling with weight issues.
It’s also better for your pet’s health. And it’s better for you because it will make your life easier if your pet is spayed or neutered. Animals can be miserable -- and make you miserable -- when they are in heat. And then there’s always the problem of what to do with the puppies. There’s also the financial side. And the problem with letting your dog have a litter is you’ve just instantly contributed to the pet overpopulation problem. Now you have to find homes for all those puppies. And for each home you find, there’s one less home for a dog that was already born. Plus, you can’t be responsible for what the new owners do.
Adult dogs can be neutered at any age, but the best time is before sexual maturity. For many years, the recommended spay/neuter age was six to nine months. When a puppy’s future involves performance competition, ask your veterinarian and breeder about timing. Delaying for a couple of months may allow the pup to attain better physical development important to these demands. Many shelters neuter puppies when they reach eight weeks of age—or two pounds in weight—before they are placed for adoption. These babies recover more quickly from the surgery than adult animals. They will grow just as much, and sometimes a bit taller, than if fixed later in life.
Why do we perform spay or castration at 6 months of age? Most veterinarians in the United States recommend bitches and dogs be spayed or castrated between 6 and 9 months of age. 
Most veterinarians recommend you have your female puppy spayed or male puppy neutered by six months of age. Having the procedure done sooner rather than later can benefit your new puppy in a number of ways. 
When it’s time to spay your dog. She can be spayed any time after eight weeks of age, and preferably before her first heat for the best health benefits. The first heat cycle occurs somewhere around six months of age, depending on the breed. 
Spay ing and neutering puppies is the responsible thing to do, and it's important to know when to neuter a puppy. When love is in the air, the dogs know it. Girl pups mature more quickly than you might think. They can become pregnant as early as five or six months of age, and most dogs can produce two litters a year. Many shelters neuter puppies when they reach eight weeks of age—or two pounds in weight—before they are placed for adoption. These babies recover more quickly from the surgery than adult animals. They will grow just as much, and sometimes a bit taller, than if fixed later in life.
Some people still look at neutering as a good practice because it can prevent all of these concerns before they ever have a chance to happen.Talking to your vet about your circumstances and your pet's current health can help you make your decision. Best wishes. 2013-08-20 00:23:20 rand sh. In this situation, it can even be difficult to judge the age of your dog based on his size since you don't have breed size standards for comparison. Luckily, most shelters take care of neutering before allowing pets to be adopted, but do be sure to ask about it.
When to neuter. A male dog can be neutered any time after eight weeks of age. A few years ago, most veterinarians advised waiting until puberty hit at about six months, and some still make that recommendation. Talk to your veterinarian about what’s best for your dog. Most dogs are sexually mature by the age of five or six months (the blink of an eye). If your dog’s testicles don’t descend, you still need to have him neutered. These dogs tend to have more testicular tumors than normal dogs.