Cyberknife treatment costs will vary for patient to patient and between centers, but hospital, accommodation and associated expenses are generally much lower than with conventional surgery. Tour2India4Health is #1 Medical Tourism company of India providing best Cyberknife Treatment.
Currently, there are over 300 CyberKnife treatment systems located in the United States… 98% of which are in hospitals. We are a free-standing, Non-Hospital treatment center and as such, cancer treatment costs are regularly 50% – 75% less expensive than a hospital setting. 1 Compared to alternative treatments that can take up to 8 – 9 weeks (including relocation in some cases) or 40 – 45 sessions of radiation therapy, an entire CyberKnife treatment plan can be completed in 4 to 5 sessions.
1 The CyberKnife® Robotic Radiosurgery System is a non-invasive alternative to surgery for the treatment of both cancerous and non-cancerous tumors anywhere in the body, including the head, spine, lung, prostate, liver and pancreas. The CyberKnife System can treat patients that have either gone through chemotherapy or are currently undergoing chemotherapy. It is important for the patient to provide their physician with a complete medical history, so to the physician can prescribe the appropriate treatment course.
CyberKnife. The Cyberknife To quote from the makers, the Accuray company: ´ The CyberKnife Robotic Radiosurgery System is a non-invasive alternative to surgery for the treatment of both cancerous and non-cancerous tumors anywhere in the body, including the prostate, lung, brain, spine, liver, pancreas and kidney. 
Cyberknife Treatment in India. in a nutshell: 1  High quality. 2  We work with JCI accredited hospitals such as Fortis Hospital and Apollo Hospital and their very experienced surgeons. 3  Extremely high cost savings of 70-90%. 4  Treatment in India offers one of the highest cost savings in the world. 5  Travel. 
Colorado CyberKnife We are a free-standing, non hospital treatment center and as such, cancer treatment costs are regularly 50% – 75% less expensive than a hospital setting. Colorado CyberKnife believes that advanced cancer care must be affordable for everyone. 1 Compared to alternative treatments that can take up to 8 – 9 weeks (including relocation in some cases) or 40 – 45 sessions of radiation therapy, an entire CyberKnife treatment plan can be completed in 4 to 5 sessions.
1 Painless & Non-Invasive. 2  Compared to alternative treatments that can take up to 8 – 9 weeks (including relocation in some cases) or 40 – 45 sessions of radiation therapy, an entire CyberKnife treatment plan can be completed in 4 to 5 sessions. 3  Each treatment session is typically completed in one hour or less. 1
Patients in the United States can expect to pay between $50,000 to $100,000 for Cyberknife treatment, which may or may not include follow-up visits and hospitalization costs. Tour2India4Health is #1 Medical Tourism company of India providing best Cyberknife Treatment.
The CyberKnife® System is a non-invasive alternative to surgery for the treatment of both cancerous and non-cancerous tumors anywhere in the body, including the head, spine, lung, prostate, liver and pancreas. The CyberKnife System can treat patients that have either gone through chemotherapy or are currently undergoing chemotherapy. It is important for the patient to provide their physician with a complete medical history, so to the physician can prescribe the appropriate treatment course.
Abroad: $12,000. US: $29,000. Typical US cyberknife treatment cost: $120,000 – Save 90%. Cyberknife advanced state of the art equipment. Options for quality, low cost Cyberknife Treatment Surgery include: 1  Cyberknife Treatment in the U.S. 2  Cyberknife Treatment in India. 3  Cyberknife Treatment in Turkey. 4  Hospitals