The plural of Octopus is Octopuses. Octopodes is also acceptable but rarely used. The common misconception that the plural is octopi comes from the incorrect assumption that O … ctopus is a Latin word, it is in fact Greek. According to the authoritative Oxford English Dictionary, the standard plural in English of octopus is octopuses. However, the word octopus comes from Greek and the Greek plural form octopodes is still occasionally used. The plural form octopi, formed according to rules for some Latin plurals, is incorrect.
The standard plural in English of octopus is octopuses. However, the word octopus comes from Greek and the Greek plural form octopodes is still occasionally used. The plural form octopi, formed according to rules for some Latin plurals, is incorrect. 
The Anglicized (and most common) plural form of octopus is octopuses. Although it is often supposed that octopi is the 'correct' plural of octopus, and … it has been in use for longer than the usual Anglicized plural octopuses, it in fact originates as an error. According to the authoritative Oxford English Dictionary, the standard plural in English of octopus is octopuses. However, the word octopus comes from Greek and the Greek plural form octopodes is still occasionally used. The plural form octopi, formed according to rules for some Latin plurals, is incorrect.
Octopi, the supposed plural of octopus, is a favorite among fans of quirky words, but it has no etymological basis. The form was created by English speakers out of a mistaken belief that octopus is Latin and hence pluralized with an-i ending. 
(I use it regularly.). Octopoids is the plural of octopoid, not octopus. Octopi is a mistaken formation based on interpreting octopus as being constructed using a Latin-us suffix when it is in fact constructed using a Greek-pus suffix. I would go with Octopuses. That is part of the Wikipedia Plural form of words ending in-us article: Currently: 1  octopuses is the most common form in the UK as well as the US; 2  octopodes is rare, 3  and octopi is often objectionable.
The Answer: We would go with octopuses, a perfectly legitimate English plural, and the oldest attested to. Octopi is also an acceptable choice, and one in wide use, but you run the risk of being informed that it's incorrect. Well-meaning people may tell you that-i is a Latin plural, but  octopus  comes from the Greek.
An octopus (/ˈɒktəpʊs/ or /ˈɒktəpəs/ ; plural: octopuses, octopi, or octopodes; see below) is a cephalopod mollusc of the order Octopoda. It has two eyes and four pairs of arms and, like other cephalopods, it is bilaterally symmetric. An octopus has a beak, with its mouth at the center point of the arms. 
Octopuses (or occasionally octopodes). Although it is often supposed that octopi is the 'correct' plural of octopus, and it has been in use for longer than the usual Anglicized plural octopuses, it in fact originates as an error. According to the authoritative Oxford English Dictionary, the standard plural in English of octopus is octopuses. However, the word octopus comes from Greek and the Greek plural form octopodes is still occasionally used. The plural form octopi, formed according to rules for some Latin plurals, is incorrect.
Noun [edit]. octopus ‎(plural octopuses or octopodes or octopi) (see usage notes). 1  Any of several marine molluscs / mollusks, of the family Octopodidae, having no internal or external protective shell or bone (unlike the nautilus, squid or cuttlefish) and eight arms each covered with suckers. 
Octopodes is also acceptable but rarely used. The common misconception that the plural is octopi comes from the incorrect assumption that O … ctopus is a Latin word, it is in fact Greek. According to the authoritative Oxford English Dictionary, the standard plural in English of octopus is octopuses. However, the word octopus comes from Greek and the Greek plural form octopodes is still occasionally used. The plural form octopi, formed according to rules for some Latin plurals, is incorrect.