The Akita originated in Japan. Unchanged for centuries, this breed is considered the national dog of Japan and a natural monument. They were highly prized, revered, and only owned by nobility and aristocracy. They were used in various capacities such as Imperial guards, hunter of bear and boar, and waterfowl retrieving. My current Akita is 6, Both are/were wonderful dogs and were very protective of my family. Both dogs are the best dogs ever with my kids and any other kids. They didn't like any other animals and killed cats, squirrels, moles etc. that come into my yard.
In most countries, the American strain of Akita is now considered a separate breed. In the United States and Canada, however, the two strains are considered a single breed with differences in type. For a while, the American strain of Akita was known in some countries as the Great Japanese Dog. Both forms of Akita are probably best known worldwide from the true story of Hachikō, a loyal Akita who lived in Japan before World War II.
The Akita is a large and powerful dog bree d with a noble and intimidating presence. He was originally used for guarding royalty and nobility in feudal Japan. The Akita also tracked and hunted wild boar, black bear, and sometimes deer. He is a fearless and loyal guardian of his family. History. The Akita is named for the province of Akita in northern Japan, where he is believed to have originated. The Akita's known existence goes back to the 1600s, when the breed guarded Japanese royalty and was used for hunting fowl and large game (including bears).
1 Comment. Anonymous. Yes, the Akita is an amazing breed of dog that is athletic and agile. A 6ft - 8ft fence, preferably wooden, not a chain linked fence is best for this breed. Chain link is easy for a dog to climb, and when they can see through the fence, barrier aggression and frustration can be high in this breed. My current Akita is 6, Both are/were wonderful dogs and were very protective of my family. Both dogs are the best dogs ever with my kids and any other kids. They didn't like any other animals and killed cats, squirrels, moles etc. that come into my yard.
There are two separate varieties of Akita: a Japanese strain, known as the Akita Inu (inu means dog in Japanese) or Japanese Akita; and an American strain, known as the Akita or American Akita. For a while, the American strain of Akita was known in some countries as the Great Japanese Dog. Both forms of Akita are probably best known worldwide from the true story of Hachikō, a loyal Akita who lived in Japan before World War II.
There is no doubt that dogs of the Akita type are an ancient breed and the original dogs of the spitz type in Japan were small to medium size and no large dogs of this type existed. Illustrations from 1st millennia AD onwards depict solid coloured hunting dogs leading hunters and Samurai equipped with bows and arrows. From the early 1600s in the Akita region of Japan these medium sized hunting dogs, were also used as fighting dogs, and were often referred to as Akita Matagis. The name Akita is derived from the region of Japan where these dogs were believed to originate, particularly a region called Odate.
Anonymous. The Akita breed is not a breed of dog for the first time owner, nor are they for people who do not understand dogs and how to train them with positive reinforcement techniques. My current Akita is 6, Both are/were wonderful dogs and were very protective of my family. Both dogs are the best dogs ever with my kids and any other kids. They didn't like any other animals and killed cats, squirrels, moles etc. that come into my yard.
Predecessors of the modern Akita were used for hunting bear, wild boar and deer in Japan as late as 1957. They would be used to flush out the bear and keep it at bay until the hunter could come and kill it. Today, the breed is used primarily as a companion dog. For a while, the American strain of Akita was known in some countries as the Great Japanese Dog. Both forms of Akita are probably best known worldwide from the true story of Hachikō, a loyal Akita who lived in Japan before World War II.
The Akita is a powerful, independent and dominant breed, commonly aloof with strangers but affectionate with family members. As a breed, Akitas are generally hardy, but they have been known to suffer from various genetic conditions and be sensitive to certain drugs. For a while, the American strain of Akita was known in some countries as the Great Japanese Dog. Both forms of Akita are probably best known worldwide from the true story of Hachikō, a loyal Akita who lived in Japan before World War II.