Rotenone is a natural insecticide that is extracted from the roots of several different plants that grow in the tropics. While rotenone exhibits moderate to low toxicity as a garden insecticide it is highly toxic to fish and invertebrates and, in fact, was originally used by indigenous people to help capture fish. Rotenone is available as a powder (dust) and concentrated liquid, sometimes in combination with other insecticides. Rotenone is a broad spectrum insecticide and is therefore used for a variety of garden and landscape pests. One of the more useful, and least toxic, products combines low concentration liquid rotenone with pyrethrum (see specimen label below)
A recent study linking rotenone a pesticide with a natural image, commonly used in organic farming and gardening to Parkinson s disease, has increased demand for a level playing field in the safety assessment of pesticides. Production Rotenoids, the rotenone-related materials, have been used as crop insecticides since 1848, when they were applied to plants to control leaf-eating caterpillars. However, they have been used for centuries (at least since 1649) in South America to paralyse fish, causing them to surface(5).
Rotenone is used as a pesticide, insecticide, and as a nonselective piscicide (fish killer). It is commercialized as cube, cubé, tuba or, derris in single preparation or in synergistic combination with other. Insecticides in The United states And, canada all uses of rotenone except as a piscicide are being phased. out Rotenone works by interfering with the electron transport chain in mitochondria. To be specific, it inhibits the transfer of electrons from iron-sulfur centers in complex I to ubiquinone.
Rotenone is an odorless, colorless, crystalline ketonic chemical compound used as a broad-spectrum insecticide, piscicide, and pesticide. It occurs naturally in the seeds and stems of several plants, such as the jicama vine plant, and the roots of several members of Fabaceae. Rotenone works by interfering with the electron transport chain in mitochondria. To be specific, it inhibits the transfer of electrons from iron-sulfur centers in complex I to ubiquinone.
Rotenone is a naturally occurring rotenoid plant extract from South America, Australia and many countries in Southern Asia. It is found in the roots and stems of several tropical plants, Jewel vine (Derris spp.), Lacepod (Lonchocarpus spp.) and Hoary Pea (Tephrosia spp.) being the most common. 
INTRODUCTION. Rotenone is a rotenoid plant extract obtained from such species as barbasco, cub, haiari, nekoe, and timbo. These plants are members of the pea (Leguminosae) family. Rotenone containing extracts are taken from the roots, seeds and leaves of the various plants (13). Rotenone is generally classified as a botanical insecticide. Rotenone is a general use pesticide
Definition of ROTENONE. : a crystalline insecticide C23H22O6 obtained from the roots of several tropical plants (as a derris) that is highly toxic to fish but is of low toxicity to warm-blooded animals and is used especially in home gardens. See rotenone defined for kids. Tweet. : a crystalline insecticide C23H22O6 obtained from the roots of several tropical plants (as a derris) that is highly toxic to fish but is of low toxicity to warm-blooded animals and is used especially in home gardens.
- A natural insecticde from roots -. Summary: Rotenone is a natural insecticide extracted from the roots of certain tropical plants. It is a broad spectrum, relatively low toxicity insecticide for use in gardens but is is highly toxic to fish and is sometimes used to eliminate unwanted fish from lakes. Rotenone is available as a powder (dust) and concentrated liquid, sometimes in combination with other insecticides. Rotenone is a broad spectrum insecticide and is therefore used for a variety of garden and landscape pests. One of the more useful, and least toxic, products combines low concentration liquid rotenone with pyrethrum (see specimen label below)