Following are the nine biggest changes I noticed in my screening of The Great Gatsby. Feel free to remark on any changes you feel may have been more noticeable. There are many spoilers in The Great Gatsby book to movie comparison. Do not delve in if you want the film to be a surprise. To give a frame to Nick Carraway s narration, Luhrmann introduces us to a broken Nick, who is working with a doctor to recover his health after troubles with alcohol.
Baz Luhrmann’s The Great Gatsby was never going to be perfect. F. Scott Fitzgerald’s great American novel is a cornerstone of most American teenagers’ introduction into literature, a deeply subtle book that’s so nuanced and delicate, it’s as if it was specifically built to resist filmmakers.
In the movie Nick is not the narrator nor does it say that he is. In Gatsby's phone call the first one Detroit wasn't mentioned as the small town that Philadelphia mentioned. When Nick was offered a job be Gatsby he didn't say anything about it ruining his life that it would be the crisis of his life.
The Great Gatsby Comparison Paper. The similarities and the differences between the book The Great Gatsby and the. movie G are many in both accounts. The book The Great Gatsby was written and. set in the 1920's with all caucasion characters, and the proper talk and everyday life. of the 20's.
One of the biggest differences between the film and the book was the characters of both Daisy and Tom Buchanan. In the novel, Daisy seems to be a more intellectual and well brought up lady. Whereas in the movie, she is depicted as the typical, unintelligent blonde.
The Great Gatsby ----comparison between book and 1974 movie The difference between the developing way of books and movies is magnificently huge because the way of emotion transmitting is different; the movie is based on vision, while the book is based on words.
In both book and movie, Gatsby is waiting for a phone call from Daisy, but in the film, Nick calls, and Gatsby gets out of the pool when he hears the phone ring. He’s then shot, and he dies believing that Daisy was going to ditch Tom and go way with him. None of that happens in the book.