Garcinia cambogia, a tropical fruit also known as the Malabar tamarind, is a popular weight-loss supplement. People say it blocks your body's ability to make fat and it puts the brakes on your appetite. It could help keep blood sugar and cholesterol levels in check, too. Garcinia cambogia may make it easier for your body to use glucose, the sugar your cells need for energy. Mice that got garcinia cambogia in one study had lower insulin levels than mice that didn't. That's another reason, besides weight loss, that people with diabetes are interested in it.
Garcinia cambogia is a citrus fruit that grows in Southeast Asia. An extract from the fruit rind, hydroxycitric acid (HCA), has historically been used for cooking, but it’s also been used for weight loss and to lower cholesterol. You can buy garcinia cambogia online or at most health and supplement stores, in pill form or as a powder. Sometimes, it’s also included as an ingredient in snack bars. Typical doses are between 250 and 1,000 mg each day
The fruit Garcinia cambogia was once just the less popular cousin of a trendy fruit, the mangosteen. But now, nutritional supplements containing Garcinia cambogia extract have become the rage, touted for their purported ability to curb appetite and stop weight gain. 
The extracts from the fruit of the Garcinia cambogia plant are marketed for weight loss -- either by themselves or in combination with other ingredients. The fruit of this tropical plant is rich in an active substance classified as hydroxycitric acid. 
GARCINIA Dosing. The appropriate dose of garcinia depends on several factors such as the user's age, health, and several other conditions. At this time, there is not enough scientific information to determine an appropriate range of doses for garcinia. 1 The effect of garcinia on weight loss is not clear. 2  Some research shows that taking garcinia fruit rind extract doesn't seem to decrease fat breakdown or energy expenditure in overweight people. 3  However, other research suggests that it might improve weight loss.
Garcinia cambogia is a small fruit that resembles a miniature pumpkin. It is indigenous to India and parts of Asia, and an extract from its fruit and rind is popular in many natural weight loss products. Garcinia cambogia comes from India and some areas of Asia. Garcinia cambogia contains hydroxycitric acid, which is sometimes used in weight loss products. Seek the opinion of a doctor before taking garcinia cambogia or any other supplement that claims to promote weight loss.
Website: jonnybowden.com. Garcinia cambogia, also known as the Malabar tamarind, is a small, sweet tropical tree fruit shaped like a pumpkin. In the late 1960s, scientists discovered an acid in the fruit somewhat similar to the citric acid found in fruits like oranges and lemons. 
Let's start with the discussion about what garcinia cambogia is, where it came from, and whether or not it is safe to consume. Garcinia cambogia is a fruit that grows in the regions of Southeast Asia. Garcinia cambogia extract or supplements are derived from the rind of this powerful fruit. The results of the study showed that when garcinia cambogia extract is consumed for a total of 8 weeks, there is a reduction in fat, weight, and appetite among individuals.
Garcinia Cambogia Extract is a supplement that comes from the rind of the Garcinia Cambogia fruit (a small pumpkin-shaped fruit which is more widely known as a tamarind in many areas). The Garcinia Cambogia fruit has been around for a long, long time. The recent popularity of the Garcinia Cambogia Extract supplement can be ascribed to Dr. Julie Chen, a well-known and well-respected specialist dealing in health and wellness. Dr. Chen’s work with the Garcinia Cambogia Extract caught Dr. Oz’s eye, specifically the findings on how safe the Garcinia Cambogia Extract is.