Please allow 4 weeks for a check refund to be issued and 3–5 business days for a credit to be issued to your credit card. It may take up to an additional 3–5 business days for the credit to appear on your credit card account. I made out the check for my dues/fee payment for too much money. This fee can be found on your dues/fees notice, identified as a Voluntary Program, directly below the annual ASHA dues/fees amount. The annual CE Registry fee for ASHA/NSSLHA members is $25, and $35 for certificate holders and nonmembers who qualify to earn ASHA CEUs.
The annual dues by organization and business category are: Public Accounting, Law, Consulting: $245 - $435 Business & Industry: $245 - $435 Education, Government: $245. *Note: An enrollment fee of $65 applies for new members. In addition, there is no enrollment fee for new members ($65 for other categories). CPA Exam Candidate Affiliate: $55. Renewal Period: Invoices to renew AICPA membership and specialized interest sections, credentials and designations held are sent in June for the upcoming membership year (August 1 - July 31).
Membership Dues. IIDA Memberships run on the calendar year, January through December. If you are applying as a New Member or you are reactivating your Membership, there is a onetime $75 application fee. Memberships are prorated on a quarterly basis. Full prices are listed below. Professional. Professionals are actively engaged in the profession and are NCIDQ certified
1 Membership in ALA is required for divisional and round table membership. 2  Memberships run for 12 months starting with the month of your application. 3  ALA’s fiscal year is September to August. 4  Dues rates below are current from September 1, 2015 to August 31, 2016. Dues are based on your role in library work. Special rates are available for Retirees, Students, Friends, Trustees, International, and Non-Salaried/Unemployed members. Membership in ALA Divisions and Round Tables requires an additional fee. 1  Membership in ALA is required for divisional and round table membership. 2  Memberships run for 12 months starting with the month of your application
Students only: Student ID#: College/University Name: Indicate your payment option: Check/money order enclosed. If paying by check from a bank branch located outside the United States, add a processing fee of $10 for amounts up to $90; add $20 for amounts over $90. Visa MasterCard American Express Discover Credit card #: Securitycode: Expiration date: Cardholder’s Name: Cardholder’s Signature: Thank you! For an additional fee you can receive both publications. Choose the publication package that best meets your professional needs: Young Children (6 issues) or Teaching Young Children (5 issues plus a bonus book, Spotlight on Teaching Young Children) or Both. . .
In the event of change of employment or address, written or email notification to the AFP International Headquarters is required. All dues are payable on an anniversary year basis. The Professional and Associate membership fee includes two fees: the association fee and a local chapter fee. TO COMPLETE THIS INDIVIDUAL MEMBERSHIP APPLICATION 1. Self-determine your category of membership (see box below).2. Read the AFP Code of Ethical Principles and Standards and complete the signature line at the bottom of this application.3.
The Young Professional Membership is a flat fee.1. Please choose your category of membership:o Professional Membership: $250 (association fee) plus Chapter Dueso Associate Membership: $250 (association fee) plus Chapter Dueso Young Professional Membership (must be 30 or under): $75 ($50 association/$25 chapter fee). TO COMPLETE THIS INDIVIDUAL MEMBERSHIP APPLICATION 1. Self-determine your category of membership (see box below).2. Read the AFP Code of Ethical Principles and Standards and complete the signature line at the bottom of this application.3.
American Association of Membership Application Professional Landmen Telephone: 817-847-7700 4100 Fossil Creek Blvd Fax: 817-847-7704 Fort Worth, Texas 76137 Toll Free: 888-566-AAPL @e-mail: aapl landman.org TYPE or PRINT your responses. 11. The land professional shall assure that monies coming into his possession in trust for other persons, such as escrows, advances for expenses, fee advances and other like items, are properly accounted for and administered in a manner approved by the employer or client (B).
U ACCEPTANCE OF YOUR APPLICATION: Once received, allow up to 15 business days to receive notice of your acceptance. You will receive a new member packet via mail containing your AAPL # and password. The $100 application fee is non refundable and will be processed when you application arrives at AAPL. The Application fee will be considered your dues payment through the end of the current membership period ending June 30. 11. The land professional shall assure that monies coming into his possession in trust for other persons, such as escrows, advances for expenses, fee advances and other like items, are properly accounted for and administered in a manner approved by the employer or client (B).