A: Xanax (alprazolam) is in a drug class called benzodiazepines. Xanax is used in the treatment of anxiety disorders, such as generalized anxiety disorder. Xanax is also used for the short-term relief of anxiety symptoms. Xanax is also used to treat panic disorders. A: Xanax (alprazolam) (http://www.everydayhealth.com/drugs/xanax) is a benzodiazepine that works on chemicals in the brain that become unbalanced. Xanax is indicated for anxiety. Common side effects of Xanax include drowsiness, dizziness, dry mouth, muscle weakness, and blurred speech.
Xanax dosage for adults: Anxiety Disorder. The usual starting Xanax dosage is 0.25 mg to 0.5 mg taken three times a day. This Xanax dosage may then be increased every three to four days to a maximum daily dose of 4 mg, divided into smaller doses. Panic Disorder. The usual starting Xanax dosage for panic disorder is 0.5 mg taken three times a day. This amount can then be increased by 1 mg a day, every three to four days. You may be given a dose from 1 mg up to total of 10 mg per day, depending upon your needs. The typical Xanax dosage is 5mg to 6 mg a day.
Alprazolam (Xanax) is used for the treatment of anxiety disorder; short-term relief of symptoms of anxiety; panic disorder, with or without agoraphobia; and anxiety associated with depression. Xanax is the brand name for alprazolam. Unlike lorazepam, alprazolam comes in an immediate and an extended release form (XR). The usual dose of immediate release alprazolam is 0.25 mg – 0.5 mg every 8 hours as needed. The extended release alprazolam or Xanax XR is 0.5 mg – 1 mg twice a day. Lorazepam is also used for anxiety disorder as well as insomnia due to anxiety or stress
Description. Alprazolam (Xanax) is a benzodiazepine used to treat anxiety and panic disorder. Benzodiazepines are used to relieve anxiety, nervousness, or tension. Benzodiazepines should not be used for anxiety, nervousness, or tension caused by the stress of everyday life. Treatment for patients with anxiety should be initiated with a dose of 0.25 to 0.5 mg given three times daily. The dose may be increased to achieve a maximum therapeutic effect, at intervals of 3 to 4 days, to a maximum daily dose of 4 mg, given in divided doses.
For elderly people or those with liver disease or other serious health problems, the recommended starting Xanax dose for anxiety is 0.25 mg two or three times daily. Higher dosages are often necessary to control the symptoms of panic disorder. As always, do not adjust your dose unless your healthcare provider specifically instructs you to do so. The recommended starting dose for treating anxiety is Xanax 0.25 mg to 0.5 mg three times daily. Your healthcare provider may increase your dosage slowly, if necessary, to control your anxiety symptoms or decrease your dose if you experience bothersome Xanax side effects
Anxiety Disorders and Transient Symptoms of Anxiety. Treatment for patients with anxiety should be initiated with a dose of 0.25 to 0.5 mg given three times daily. The dose may be increased to achieve a maximum therapeutic effect, at intervals of 3 to 4 days, to a maximum daily dose of 4 mg, given in divided doses. The mean dosage employed was approximately 5 to 6 mg daily. Among the approximately 1700 patients participating in the panic disorder development program, about 300 received XANAX in dosages of greater than 7 mg/day, including approximately 100 patients who received maximum dosages of greater than 9 mg/day.
Xanax is the brand name of alprazolam, a prescription drug used to treat anxiety disorders. Xanax is prescribed for generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) , anxiety associated with depression, and panic disorder. Other uses include treatment of depression and premenstrual syndrome (PMS) . A: Xanax (alprazolam) (http://www.everydayhealth.com/drugs/xanax) is a benzodiazepine that works on chemicals in the brain that become unbalanced. Xanax is indicated for anxiety. Common side effects of Xanax include drowsiness, dizziness, dry mouth, muscle weakness, and blurred speech.