How much are US Supreme Court law clerks paid? In 2006, US Supreme Court law clerks were paid $63,335; they are classified as JSP 12 on the judicial salary chart. In 2010, the minimum pay for someone of that classification … working in the Washington, DC, area is $74,872. The position typically lasts 12-24 months.
Many law clerks have gone on to become leaders of the profession. For example, the Hon. Mr. Justice Jean Cote of the Alberta Court of Appeal was one of the very first Supreme Court law clerks, serving as a clerk in the program's inaugural year (1967). In England and Wales, law clerks are called Judicial Assistants. It is possible to be a Judicial Assistant at the Court of Appeal and at the UK Supreme Court (formerly the Appellate Committee of the House of Lords).
Law Clerk Salary. (United States). The average wage for a Law Clerk is $14.98 per hour. A skill in Legal Writing is associated with high pay for this job. People in this job generally don't have more than 10 years' experience. $27,425 - $77,315. 
A significant difference in pay exists between state and federal law clerks; federal clerkships are the highest paying and most competitive positions. Recent data suggests that the median salary for law clerks is around $54,000. Base compensation for inexperienced federal clerks (recent law school graduates) is approximately $47,000. Career federal clerks receive, on average, an annual salary of $105,000 while term clerks are paid an average of $71,000 annually. A law clerk is an individual, usually an attorney, who assists a judge in making informed legal decisions.
Law clerks are referred to as judge's clerks in the Supreme Court, Court of Appeal and High Courts. In the District Court, they are called research counsels. It is a fixed term position of 2 years. In England and Wales, law clerks are called Judicial Assistants. It is possible to be a Judicial Assistant at the Court of Appeal and at the UK Supreme Court (formerly the Appellate Committee of the House of Lords).
In order to become a law clerk there is some training required. The legal field is extremely complex and changes consistently. In order to keep up with these changes a team of legal professionals is necessary. A law clerk will help a judge by providing information about the priority of the cases that are to be presented to the court and the status of each case. They will also help with the translation of legal documents. Law clerks set up equipment in the court room to ensure that it is ready for each particular case.
A newly-graduated law clerk with no or little experience can earn around £25,000 a ye … ar ($40,340 USD).A middle-level law clerk with more experience can earn around £30,000-£35,000 ($44,400-$56,400 USD).A high executive level law clerk could earn in excess of £75,000-£100,000 ($120,000-$160,300 USD). In 2006, US Supreme Court law clerks were paid $63,335; they are classified as JSP 12 on the judicial salary chart.
Unlike the court clerk and the courtroom deputy, both of whom are administrative staff for the court, a law clerk assists the judge in making legal determinations. Most law clerks are recent law school graduates who performed at or near the top of their class. In England and Wales, law clerks are called Judicial Assistants. It is possible to be a Judicial Assistant at the Court of Appeal and at the UK Supreme Court (formerly the Appellate Committee of the House of Lords).
The term as law clerk is two years, after which the law clerk may opt to apply to the Court of Appeals in the Administrative system or the General system (kammarraett kammarrätt or) hovraett hovrätt and continue on the path that traditionally Leads, to judge or Leave the court system for. another career In England and Wales, law clerks are called Judicial Assistants. It is possible to be a Judicial Assistant at the Court of Appeal and at the UK Supreme Court (formerly the Appellate Committee of the House of Lords).