1 Schizoaffective disorder is an illness characterized by psychotic symptoms (delusions and hallucinations) and mood problems. 2  There are two types of schizoaffective disorder: bipolar and depressive. 3  There is no specific known cause for schizoaffective disorder. 1 There is no specific known cause for schizoaffective disorder. 2  Schizoaffective disorder symptoms and signs include those of schizophrenia in addition to a manic episode and/or a major depress
Schizoaffective disorder facts. 1  Schizoaffective disorder is an illness characterized by psychotic symptoms (delusions and hallucinations) and mood problems. 2  There are two types of schizoaffective disorder: bipolar and depressive. 3  There is no specific known cause for schizoaffective disorder. 1 There is no specific known cause for schizoaffective disorder. 2  Schizoaffective disorder symptoms and signs include those of schizophrenia in addition to a manic episode and/or a major depress
Schizoaffective disorder symptoms vary from person to person. People who have the condition experience psychotic symptoms — such as hallucinations or delusions — as well as a mood disorder. Signs and symptoms of schizoaffective disorder may include, among others: 1  Delusions — having false, fixed beliefs. 2  Hallucinations, such as hearing voices. 3  Major depressed mood episodes.
Schizoaffective disorder is characterized by a combination of schizophrenia and affective (mood) disorder symptoms-there is disagreement on whether it is a type of mood disorder or schizophrenia. The most common mood disorder to accompany the schizophrenia features is either: The following signs and symptoms may be present in an individual with schizoaffective disorder: A risk factor is something which increases the likelihood of developing a condition or disease.
Schizoaffective disorder is a condition in which a person experiences a combination of schizophrenia symptoms — such as hallucinations or delusions — and mood disorder symptoms, such as mania or depression. Schizoaffective disorder is not as well understood or well defined as other mental health conditions. This is largely because schizoaffective disorder is a mix of mental health conditions ― including schizophrenic and mood disorder features ― that may run a unique course in each affected person.
Schizoaffective disorder is a serious mental illness that has features of two different conditions -- schizophrenia, and an affective (mood) disorder that may be diagnosed as either major depression or bipolar disorder. Symptoms of schizoaffective disorder may vary greatly from one person to the next and may be mild or severe. Symptoms of schizoaffective disorder may include: Depression. 1  Poor appetite. 2  Weight loss or gain. 3  Changes in sleeping patterns (sleeping very little or a lot). 4  Agitation (excessive restlessness).
1 Schizoaffective disorder symptoms and signs include those of schizophrenia in addition to a manic episode and/or a major depressive disorder. 2  The typical treatment for schizoaffective disorder involves the individual taking an antipsychotic drug and possibly a mood stabilizer in addition to psycho-education. 1 There is no specific known cause for schizoaffective disorder. 2 
Schizoaffective disorder is defined by mood disorder-free psychosis in the context of a long-term psychotic and mood disorder. Psychosis must meet criterion A for schizophrenia which may include delusions, hallucinations, disorganized speech, thinking or behavior and negative symptoms. Genetic studies do not support the view that schizophrenia, psychotic mood disorders and schizoaffective disorder are distinct etiological entities, but rather the evidence suggests the existence of common inherited vulnerability that increases the risks for all these syndromes.
Definition. Schizoaffective disorder is a condition in which a person experiences a combination of schizophrenia symptoms — such as hallucinations or delusions — and mood disorder symptoms, such as mania or depression. Schizoaffective disorder is not as well understood or well defined as other mental health conditions. This is largely because schizoaffective disorder is a mix of mental health conditions ― including schizophrenic and mood disorder features ― that may run a unique course in each affected person.
Schizoaffective Disorder. Schizoaffective disorder symptoms look like a mixture of two kinds of major mental illnesses that are usually thought to run in different families, involve different brain mechanisms, develop in different ways, and respond to different treatments: mood (affective) disorders and schizophrenia. 