However, many maternity units have a policy of inducing labour before 42 weeks, so in the UK, only about three per cent of babies are born after 42 weeks (HSCIC 2015) . If you're only a few days past your due date, most doctors won't offer to induce your labour for a while. According to research, only about one in 25 (four per cent) of babies are born on their exact due date (Mongelli 2014) . About one in five babies are born at 41 weeks or after (HSCIC 2015) . So rest assured, you’re not alone in wondering when your baby will make an appearance!
Approximately 7% of babies are not delivered by 42 weeks, and when that happens, it is referred to as a post-term pregnancy.. The most common cause of post-term pregnancy is that your due date was miscalculated and you really are not overdue, but right on time. Only about 2% of pregnancies are really post-term. When your due date arrives, you will be more than ready to have your baby! Most women deliver the baby somewhere between 37 and 42 weeks. According to the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, only 5% of babies arrive on the exact due date
Only 4 percent are born on the due date. It is an average calculated across large numbers of pregnant women, and finding that the average length of gestation is 280 days after the first day of the last period. There is nothing magical about the date. 
If you have still not delivered at 42 weeks, there are increased risks to your health and to the health of the baby. As the baby gets past its due date, the placenta, which is the link between you and the baby, may stop working as effectively as it had before. When your due date arrives, you will be more than ready to have your baby! Most women deliver the baby somewhere between 37 and 42 weeks. According to the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, only 5% of babies arrive on the exact due dat
My doula told me something very helpful while I was pregnant. She said there is a two week window before and after your due date when it is very normal for your baby to be born, so anywhere from week 38- week 42. All you can do is watch for early signs of labour and wait it out. Don't stress if you pass your due date. Your baby will come when he/she is ready. Good luck! A due date isn't totally accurate but gives you and your doctor a good idea of when it would be safe to have the baby. I never made it to any of my due dates. My first baby was breech so a c-section three days before, my 2nd (vbac) 11 days early and my 3rd (vbac) 14 days early.
Yes, it's very common. Most babies arrive between 37 weeks and 41 weeks of pregnancy, usually within a week on either side of their expected due date (HSCIC 2015, NHS Choices 2015) . On the flip side, it's very common for twins, and particularly triplets, to arrive before 37 weeks of pregnancy (NCCWCH 2011) . According to research, only about one in 25 (four per cent) of babies are born on their exact due date (Mongelli 2014) . About one in five babies are born at 41 weeks or after (HSCIC 2015) . So rest assured, you’re not alone in wondering when your baby will make an appearance!
Babies born during this time are called full-term babies. A baby born before the 37th week of pregnancy is called premature or preterm. If your pregnancy lasts past the end of the 41st week, it is called a post-term pregnancy. In other words, the baby is overdue. At the end of 41 weeks, your doctor may talk to you about inducing labour to make sure your baby is born healthy. This is an important decision that you and your doctor will make together.
Having a baby before your due date puts the baby at higher risk for many health problems. Babies born before 39 weeks gestation can have problems. Choosing to have your baby by induction, or C-section may seem convenient, but it puts both you and your baby at risk for problems. Pregnancy lasts for about 280 days or 40 weeks. A preterm or premature baby is delivered before 37 weeks of your pregnancy. 1  Extremely preterm infants are born 23 through 28 weeks. 2  Moderately preterm infants are born between 29 and 33 weeks. 3  Late preterm infants are born between 34 and 37 week