1 On average, most personal chefs are going to prepare meals ahead of time. 2  These meals will be frozen for the upcoming week. 3  On average, a weekly frozen plan such as this would cost anywhere from $255 to $450 per week for a family of four. 4  This price will not include the groceries. 1 If you want to use ingredients from the chef’s pantry, the ingredients cost can be more. 2  Food can be put into a vacuum sealed bag so that it will last longer. 3  While many chefs include this in their cost, some can charge extra. 4  Additional meals and side dishes will cost extra.
Usually, a personal chef charges depending on how many meals he has to prepare, how sophisticated the menu is and how much time does he have to spent doing it. For example, depending on how many recipes he uses, for a four to six individuals meal, a certain personal chef (Natural Kitchen Chef) charges from $150 to $250. Another personal chef (Chef Victoria) from Southern California, also depending on the recipe number and how many persons will eat, charges from $265 to $395. Grocery expenses are not included in the chef’s fees. Usually, the client establishes the budget with the personal chef depending on the menu. A typical grocery cost is estimated somewhere between $75 and $175 per cook date
1 While many chefs include this in their cost, some can charge extra. 2  Additional meals and side dishes will cost extra. 3  Also, meals that are not listed on their meal list can cost extra if they do not have a recipe. 4  A delivery fee can be extra if you want the chef to deliver to your home. 1 If you want to use ingredients from the chef’s pantry, the ingredients cost can be more. 2  Food can be put into a vacuum sealed bag so that it will last longer. 3  While many chefs include this in their cost, some can charge extra. 4  Additional meals and side dishes will cost extra.
The cost for training to become a firefighter will depend on what  type of fire department you will work for. If it is a volunteer  department, training is always free. Othe … rwise if you will be a  salaried firefighter, training can cost several thousand dollars. 
This is total, and it will take about 10 years to do them all that you are required to do. For examp … le, 4 years of Pre-dentistry, 4 years of Dental school and then residency of a couple of years. Also, if you do advanced courses it will be more. How much will an education cost to become a radiologist?   Answer     it depends on where you go to undergraduate school and medical school...however, you can expect to spend anywhere from $80,000 to over $150,000 to b … ecome a radiologist.
1 For a private dinner cooked directly in the kitchen for a few guests, the cost will fall between $150 to $350 for a party of four. 2  For example, the chef David Straus in Denver, Colorado offers meals for families that range anywhere from $175 to $325 for one meal. 1 If you want to use ingredients from the chef’s pantry, the ingredients cost can be more. 2  Food can be put into a vacuum sealed bag so that it will last longer. 3  While many chefs include this in their cost, some can charge extra. 4  Additional meals and side dishes will cost extra.
Average Cost. Depending on where you hope to earn your degree, the cost will change. Community colleges cost about $2,000 to $5,000 per year (as of 2010) while culinary schools will range from $7,000 to $36,000. Remember to factor in the cost of application fees, registration fees and deposits. Also, keep in mind that although the cost of culinary school may seem overwhelming at first, schools offer financial aid, scholarships, monthly payment plans and other options to assist you in gaining an education.
In Spain I run a personal and private chef service called www.bravurachefs.com where we charge €2500 for a 7 day week of breakfast, lunch and dinner. For the personal chef service its €250 plus food cost. Out of that SS is taken. In Spain I run a personal and private chef service called www.bravurachefs.com where we charge €2500 for a 7 day week of breakfast, lunch and dinner. For the personal chef service its €250 plus food cost. All prices are inclusive of taxes.
A Private Chef comes to your house for a number of hours a day, whichever is required to cook and serve the meals you pay for. I do this job and have been paid $400-$650/week depending on how many people I cook for. My current position pays me $15/hour (for about 12-15 hours/week) for dinner only for 6 people. Out of that SS is taken. In Spain I run a personal and private chef service called www.bravurachefs.com where we charge €2500 for a 7 day week of breakfast, lunch and dinner. For the personal chef service its €250 plus food cost. All prices are inclusive of taxes.