Muscle knots are abnormal areas within the muscle, which cause pain. The medical term for the muscle knots is myofascial trigger points. We do not know everything about what they are. When doctors have biopsied (cut a piece out of) muscle knots, some abnormal protein deposits seem to be present. 
Muscle knots, also called myofascial trigger points, are painful and can even be responsible for headaches. Caused by overuse, misuse, stress, or anxiety, muscles knots can be as hard to work out. Removing muscle knots may take repeated efforts and a variety of techniques, depending on your personal preferences and what works most effectively for your muscles. Identify muscle knot areas. Some muscle knots hurt without pressure, so they're easy to identify. Others don't hurt until you apply pressure. Using your fingers, gently probe your muscles looking for pressure points.
Treatment – what to do if you already have muscle knots: 1  Rest – If you’re in pain, it is your body’s way of saying it needs a break. 2  Maybe, you take a few days away from the computer or a few days away from the spin bike. 3  You need a break from whatever is causing the pain. Prevention – how to avoid getting muscle knots in the first place: 1  Diet and hydration – Drink plenty of water and eat a healthy diet. 2  Foods such as alcohol, sugary caffeinated drinks, processed and fast foods all play a part in dehydrating you.
3) Overstimulation – Strenuous exercise and sport activities, especially lifting weights. If you are developing muscle knots frequently from lifting weights in your shoulders, neck, or upper, or middle back, the likely cause is a postural issue. For example, if you have rounded shoulders from sitting in a office, your back muscles are already overstretched because your shoulders are rounded forwards. To treat the muscle knot, simply roll the massage ball pressed either to the wall or the floor one side, and your body on the other over your muscle. You can use two tennis balls, or TPT massage balls if you want to go firmer or deeper.
If you are developing muscle knots frequently from lifting weights in your shoulders, neck, or upper, or middle back, the likely cause is a postural issue. For example, if you have rounded shoulders from sitting in a office, your back muscles are already overstretched because your shoulders are rounded forwards. A common problem for active people, muscle knots—technically called Myofascial Trigger Points, or MTPS—feel like a small knot to your fingertips. These knots can range from the size of a pinhead in smaller muscles to the size of your thumb in larger muscles.[2].
A common problem for active people, muscle knots—technically called Myofascial Trigger Points, or MTPS—feel like a small knot to your fingertips. These knots can range from the size of a pinhead in smaller muscles to the size of your thumb in larger muscles. To treat the muscle knot, simply roll the massage ball pressed either to the wall or the floor one side, and your body on the other over your muscle. You can use two tennis balls, or TPT massage balls if you want to go firmer or deeper.
The phenomenon of muscle knots is not uncommon. Essentially, muscle knots are sections within the various muscles of the body that have constricted and create pain that is consistent. The condition is common enough to merit the application of a scientific name, which is myofascial trigger points. A muscle with a knot is hard to the touch. To release a muscle knot, follow the muscle with. the tip of your fingers until you find its starting or ending point (where it connects to the bone though a harder tissue-ligament).
Muscle knots can cause pain in two ways: (1) latent trigger points, which are knots that only hurt when you put pressure on them, and (2) active trigger points, which are knots that actively refer pain along your neural pathways, causing it in non-localized areas. To treat the muscle knot, simply roll the massage ball pressed either to the wall or the floor one side, and your body on the other over your muscle. You can use two tennis balls, or TPT massage balls if you want to go firmer or deeper.
Muscle knots, also referred to as myofascial trigger points, are described as abnormal areas in the muscle, according to Seth Rosenbaum, M.D. Muscle knots often form when the muscle is experiencing a spasm. A muscle spasm occurs when a muscle is in a continuous contraction and typically follows an injury. It is characterized by having ongoing painful trigger points, or muscle knots, according to the MayoClinic.com. This pain tends to worsen or persist. Trigger point injections, physical therapy and medications can help to alleviate the pain and muscle knots.