Spica is at 23°50′ Libra with an orb of 2°40′. Fixed star Spica at 23° Libra 50′, is a blue giant star in the ear of wheat of the Maiden, Virgo constellation. It is the brightest star in the constellation and the 15th brightest star in the night sky. The name Spica derives from Latin spīca virginis “Virgo’s ear of grain”.
Spica, Alpha Virginis, is the brightest star in the southern constellation Virgo and the 16th brightest star in the sky. It is a blue subgiant star located at a distance of 262 light years from Earth. Spica is really a close binary star system. It is one of the nearest massive binary stars to the solar system. The primary star in the system is halfway between a subgiant and giant on the evolutionary scale. It belongs to the spectral class B1 III-IV. With a mass more than 10 times that of the Sun, Spica A is one of the nearest stars to Earth that are massive enough to end their life in a Type II supernova explosion.
The image above is from Glyphweb.com. Spica looks like one star, but it is at least two stars, both larger and hotter than our sun, orbiting only 18 million kilometers (11 million miles) apart. That’s in contrast to 150 million kilometers for Earth’s distance from our sun. History and mythology of Spica. Spica is from the Latin word for “ear,” and the general connotation is that it refers to an “ear of wheat.” Indeed, the star and the constellation Virgo itself were sometimes associated with the Greek goddess of the harvest, Ceres.
Confidence votes 30.0K. Spica (Alpha Virginis) is the brightest star in the constellation Virgo. It is actually a binary star, comprising of two close orbiting stars. The primary has a spectral class of B1 and the secondary B2. They are both blue giants. Spica (Alpha Virginis) is the brightest star in the constellation Virgo. It is in fact a close binary star system so it is impossible to resolve individual stars through a t … elescope. It is approximately 7.4 times larger than our Sun. So it has a radius of about 5,150,400 km.
Spica is in the lower portion of the image. Spica, also called Alpha Virginis, is a star located in the constellation Virgo, about 10 degrees south of the ecliptic. The star is the brightest star of the Virgo constellation and the 15th brightest star overall in the night sky. It is 260 light years distant from our Solar System. Like Regulus, Spica is regularly occulted by the Moon and less frequently so by the various planets of the Solar System.
Spica. Spica or Alpha Virginis (Alp Vir) is the brightest naked eye star in the constellation Virgo. With an apparent magnitude of 0.98v, Spica is the 15th brightest star in the entire sky (see: 50 Brightest Stars). Its absolute magnitude is -3.55 and its distance is 262 light years. The Equinox J2000 equatorial coordinates are RA = 13h 25m 11.6s, Dec = -11° 09' 41. Spica has a spectral type of B1V, a surface temperature of 22,400° Kelvin and a luminosity 12,100 times the Sun. It has a mass of 10.3 solar masses and a diameter 7.4 times the Sun. The image above shows the uncropped view of Spica (North is up) through the Takahashi E-180 Astrograph.