Report Abuse. INC stand for Incorporated. This means a company is legally in business and their are specific stipulations in regards to protection of the owners,CEO and or board members. In a corporation, stockholders, directors and officers typically are not liable for their company's debts and obligations. INC stand for Incorporated. This means a company is legally in business and their are specific stipulations in regards to protection of the owners,CEO and or board members
incorporated INC stand for Incorporated. This means a company is legally in business and their are specific stipulations in regards to protection of the owners,CEO and or bo … ard members. It is used in conjunction with a company name to mean Incorporated, indicating that the business is a legal corporation and not just … a business registration or partnership. 4 people found this useful. The question and answer are locked and cannot be edited.
India Inc. means 'India Incorporated'. There is nothing called India Incorporated because India is a sovereign country which does not require incorporation under The Companies … Act or any other Act. Only the companies, either Public or Private Limited, require incorporation under the law.
India Inc. means 'India Incorporated'. There is nothing called India Incorporated because India is a sovereign country which does not require incorporation under The Companies … Act or any other Act. Only the companies, either Public or Private Limited, require incorporation under the law. It is used in conjunction with a company name to mean Incorporated, indicating that the business is a legal corporation and not just … a business registration or partnership. 4 people found this useful. The question and answer are locked and cannot be edited.
inc is usually written Inc..    It is used in conjunction with a company name to mean Incorporated, indicating that the business is a legal corporation and not just … a business registration or partnership. 4 people found this useful. The question and answer are locked and cannot be edited. There is nothing called India Incorporated because India is a sovereign country which does not require incorporation under The Companies … Act or any other Act. Only the companies, either Public or Private Limited, require incorporation under the law.
inc is usually written Inc..    It is used in conjunction with a company name to mean Incorporated, indicating that the business is a legal corporation and not just … a business registration or partnership. 4 people found this useful. The question and answer are locked and cannot be edited.
Incorporation is the forming of a new corporation (a corporation being a legal entity that is effectively recognized as a person under the law). The corporation may be a business, a non-profit organization, sports club, or a government of a new city or town. 1 In the United States, there are many ways that a corporation can be identified. 2  The four forms that are valid in all 50 states and the District of Columbia are Corporation, Incorporated, and the abbreviations Corp. and Inc..
incorporated INC stand for Incorporated. This means a company is legally in business and their are specific stipulations in regards to protection of the owners,CEO and or bo … ard members. In a corporation, stockholders, directors and officers typically are not liable for their company's debts and obligations. There is nothing called India Incorporated because India is a sovereign country which does not require incorporation under The Companies … Act or any other Act. Only the companies, either Public or Private Limited, require incorporation under the law.
Inc. Inc. is the abbreviation for incorporated. A corporation is a separate legal entity from the person or people forming it. Directors and officers purchase shares in the business and have responsibility for its operation. Incorporation limits an individual's liability in case of a lawsuit.