Liquid makeup is fine, 3 oz or less, in your quart bag. Hairspray will probably be fine, as long as it's not flammable. If it's flammable, it's technically not allowed and the question becomes will they open the bag to see if it's hairspray or shaving cream, etc in the can.
SafeTravel covers this somewhat, saying you'll want to check the details on your deodorant / other can. If it says it's a flammable product, it may not be permitted in your checked luggage. If it's not flammable, however, then it should be fine to travel with, provided the top is on.
The only time aerosols get interesting is when the (a) the can size is enormous (a single can in excess of 18oz), or (b) it's considered flammable and not for personal use. Personal use has been interpreted in HSV as something that you actually spray onto your body.
From that table, you can see that, for instance, aerosol sunscreen is allowed, pressurized whipped cream is allowed in checked luggage but not carry-on, and spray paint is completely forbidden.
Report Abuse. Yes, you can put the deoderant in your checked luggage (i.e. the one that goes into the aircraft hold). The only restrictions are for liquids carried in carry on luggage (hand luggage). It won't explode. There are no capacity restrictions for checked in luggage as long as your luggage is within the weight limit that the airline advises (usually about 20 kg).
Search Results For: aerosol hairspray. Special Instructions. You may carry liquids, gels and aerosols in your carry-on bags only if they adhere to the 3-1-1 rule: containers must be 3.4 ounces or less; stored in a 1 quart/liter zip-top bag; 1 zip-top bag per person, placed in the screening bin.
TSA has determined that liquids, aerosols and gels, in limited quantities, are safe to bring aboard aircraft. So it is important to remember that all liquid, aerosol and gel items must be stored in containers 3.4 ounce or smaller.
If you want to travel with your full-size aerosol containers of antiperspirant, hairspray, suntan lotion, shaving cream, and hair mousse, you can do so by packing them in your checked baggage. That way, you’ll be sure to have your favorite toiletries with you when you arrive at your destination.