Weems & Plath, makers of the finest nautical instruments in the world, introduce a new line of Chart Weights. Featured here is the quartz clock style, with brass finish. Quartz Clock Chart Weight measures 4 3/4 x 1.5 high. Chart Weights can be engraved with your yacht club burgee, name, and/or regatta event. This compact clock, in highly polished silver tone metal features a white face with black Roman numerals and a sweep second hand. It is small enough to fit in an office, den, hallway, bathroom, or anywhere you want to add just the right nautical touch. Clock measures 11 diameter x 2.5 deep. 2-week delivery.
This traditional barometer is both a work of art, and the perfect instrument for any fine study, library, office or boat. Using different colors of ordinary natural food coloring dyes, you can match the color of the water in the barometer to any decor. A fill kit is included to fill and empty the barometer. The Hand Blown Weather Glass Barometer measures 9 1/2 inches (24.1 cm) tall, and 4 inches (10.2 cm) wide, 3 3/4 inches (9.5 cm) deep, and weighs 4 ounces (114 grams).
­A barometer measures air pressure: A rising barometer indicates increas­ing air pressure; a falling barometer indicates decreasing air pressure. On Earth, because there are many miles of air molecules stacked up and exerting pressure due to the force of gravity, the pressure is about 14.7 pounds per square inch at sea level (see this page for a good explanation of atmospheric pressure).
Clocks, Barometers and Weather Instruments. A ship's clock can add a nautical flair to any interior, marine or home. Captain's Nautical has heirloom quality, hinged bezel ship's bell clocks and many more affordable clocks or clock and barometer sets to suit any budget. If your searching for weather data collection tools Captain's has your needs covered, amateur or professional.
All are constructed with a solid brass case. Nautical Porthole Barometer This barometer features a nautical porthole design complete with two dog front case closures and beveled glass lens with dual calibration (english-millibars / metric-mmhg). Polished Brass Only. Nautical Chronometer Case Barometer These barometers are housed in a precision solid brass crafted case design with a beveled glass lens with dual calibration (english-millibars / metric-mmhg).
A barometer is a scientific instrument used in meteorology to measure atmospheric pressure. Pressure tendency can forecast short term changes in the weather. Numerous measurements of air pressure are used within surface weather analysis to help find surface troughs, high pressure systems and frontal boundaries. The mercury barometer's design gives rise to the expression of atmospheric pressure in inches or millimeters or feet (torr): the pressure is quoted as the level of the mercury's height in the vertical column. Typically, atmospheric pressure is measured between 26.5 to 31.5 inches of Hg.
Nautical Barometer. Designed to measure upcoming weather events by sensing slight pressure gradient changes that indicate either Stormy, Rain, Change, Fair or Very Dry weather to come. All barometers offered have a matching clock to pair with if desired. Nautical Chronometer Case Barometer These barometers are housed in a precision solid brass crafted case design with a beveled glass lens with dual calibration (english-millibars / metric-mmhg).
Brass Ship's Clock & Barometer Set. We ve seen a lot of nautical clocks and barometers, and we think this is the most elegant set we ve seen. Our Ship s Clock and Barometer both feature handblown glass fronts in solid brass cast cases. This compact clock, in highly polished silver tone metal features a white face with black Roman numerals and a sweep second hand. It is small enough to fit in an office, den, hallway, bathroom, or anywhere you want to add just the right nautical touch. Clock measures 11 diameter x 2.5 deep. 2-week delivery.
Click the button below to add the Nautical Clock and Barometer Thermometer Set to your wish list. 