For the volcanic cone, see Mount Atlas. The Atlas Mountains is a mountain range which stretches across northwestern Africa extending about 2,500 km (1,600 mi) through Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia. The highest peak is Jebel Toubkal, with an elevation of 4,167 metres (13,671 ft) in southwestern Morocco. The Atlas ranges separate the Mediterranean and Atlantic coastlines from the Sahara Desert. The population of the Atlas Mountains is mainly Berbers.
The Tell Atlas is a mountain chain over 1,500 kilometres (930 mi) in length, belonging to the Atlas mountain ranges and stretching from Morocco, through Algeria to Tunisia. The highest peak is Jebel Toubkal, with an elevation of 4,167 metres (13,671 ft) in southwestern Morocco. The Atlas ranges separate the Mediterranean and Atlantic coastlines from the Sahara Desert. The population of the Atlas Mountains is mainly Berbers.
After breakfast, leave Dades Gorge and move to Todra, another fabulous gorge and Morocco’s highest oasis. The gorge consists of ochre-coloured cliffs of the High Atlas. It has 300 meters high walls with the narrowest portion measuring only 20 meters wide. After this, you will move towards Merzouga from Todra Gorge. Finally reach Ouarzazate, the Hollywood of Morocco. Start the desert trip from Marrakech outside the hotel/riad at 9:00am to travel to the High Atlas Mountains. You have to cross the mountains through Tizi-n-Tichka (2,260m), the highest road pass
The High Atlas, North Africa’s greatest mountain range, contains some of the most intriguing and beautiful regions of Morocco. A historical and physical barrier between the northern plains and the pre-Sahara, its Berber-populated valleys feel – and indeed are – very remote from the country’s mainstream or urban life. 
And crossing the Atlas is a journey from olive groves and orange trees to outback. High Atlas mountain scenery. The distance from Marrakech to Ouarzazate is only 200km (125 miles), but the drive between the two cities takes at least four hours. The road, it is fair to say, isn’t as direct as it could be. The ascent into the High Atlas is a gradual one from Marrakech
Asni is a small town, in the foothills of the High Atlas mountains in Morocco. It is about an hours drive from Marrakech. As the town is on both the routes into and around the Atlas mountains, there is a steady drift of tourists, and hence the place is full of hustlers. For a more peaceful stay near the Atlas mountains, carry on up the road to the more attractive Imlil.
Understand [edit]. The name Marrakech originates from the Amazigh (Berber) words mur (n) akush, which means Land of God.. It is the third largest city in Morocco, after Casablanca and Rabat, and lies near the foothills of the snow-capped Atlas Mountains. It is a few hours from the foot of the Sahara Desert. 1 Riad LakLak, Marrakech Medina, (info@riad-laklak-marrakech.com), [24]. 2  Riad LakLak is a gorgeous Riad from the 17th century. 3  It is located between the Palais Bahia and the Palais Badii in one of the most authentic area of the Medina of Marrakesh.
The Middle Atlas (Amazigh: Atlas Anammas) is a mountain range in Morocco. It is part of the Atlas mountain range, a vast mountainous region with more than 100,000 km², 15 percent of its landmass, rising above 2,000 metres. South of the Middle Atlas and separated by the Moulouya and Um Er-Rbia rbiâ, rivers The High atlas stretches for 700 km with a succession of peaks among which ten reach 4,000 4000. metres