Post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) is the use of antiretroviral drugs as soon as possible after exposure to HIV, to prevent HIV infection. PEP can reduce the rate of infection in health care workers exposed to HIV by 79%. HIV exposure at work is usually a one-time accident. Other HIV exposures may be due to unsafe behaviors that can occur many times. Some people think that PEP might encourage this unsafe behavior if people think that PEP is an easy way to avoid
1 (2000) found that total costs ranged from $197 to $1094 between the two hospitals, with an average cost of $672 per injury at hospital A and an average of $539 at hospital B. 2  Another more recent study investigated the short-term economic impact of needlestick injuries among nurses caring for patients with diabetes. CDC (2004) estimates that approximately 385,000 needlestick and sharps-related injuries occur every year to healthcare workers in hospital settings, and this estimate is probably one of the most current available today. Panlilio et al.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimates that about 385,000 sharps-related injuries occur annually among health care workers in hospitals. The cost of a sharps injury can be a compelling reason to use safer sharps practices. One sharps injury can cause a number of direct and indirect costs for the health care facility, including:
1 Altogether, assuming 700,000 needlestick injuries occur each year and that 58% of those who sustain a needlestick injury are nurses, the national economic burden of needlestick injuries is estimated to be $65 million. 2  Lee et al. CDC (2004) estimates that approximately 385,000 needlestick and sharps-related injuries occur every year to healthcare workers in hospital settings, and this estimate is probably one of the most current available today. Panlilio et al.
Total Cost and Cost Per Establishment. According to the above analysis, the maximum total annual cost of this action is $33,892,653, consisting of $1,294,352 associated with maintaining a sharps injury log and $32,598,300 associated with soliciting and documenting employee input into the Exposure Control Plan. The cost associated with solicitation of employee input is comprised of three components: (1) The initial solicitation, conducted by a manager; (2) the employee response; and (3) documentation of the solicitation in
1 Lee et al. ( 2 2005) estimated that the total mean annual cost of needlestick injuries for the 110 nurses (out of 400) who experienced at least one needlestick injury within 12 months of participating in the study was $28,492, or approximately $259 spent annually per injured nurse. CDC (2004) estimates that approximately 385,000 needlestick and sharps-related injuries occur every year to healthcare workers in hospital settings, and this estimate is probably one of the most current available today. Panlilio et al.
Safe in Common determined the frequency and total cost of needlestick injuries by studying findings from the Massachusetts Sharps Injury Surveillance System. Based on recent CDC reports of healthcare personnel treatment costs, needlestick injuries cost an estimated $3,042 per victim annually, according to the report. The costs go toward laboratory fees for testing exposed employees, associated labor and counseling and post-exposure follow-ups. 
Average time per response: Three to five minutes for employers to record needlestick incidents; fifteen minutes for employers to solicit non-managerial employees on effective engineering and work practice controls; fifteen minutes for employers to modify their existing exposure control plans. The cost associated with solicitation of employee input is comprised of three components: (1) The initial solicitation, conducted by a manager; (2) the employee response; and (3) documentation of the solicitation in the Exposure Control Plan.
Usually the exposure is from a “needle stick,” when a health care worker accidentally gets jabbed with a needle containing HIV-infected blood. PEP reduced the rate of HIV infection from workplace exposures by 79%. However, some health care workers who take PEP still get HIV infection. HIV exposure at work is usually a one-time accident. Other HIV exposures may be due to unsafe behaviors that can occur many times. Some people think that PEP might encourage this unsafe behavior if people think that PEP is an easy way to avoid
Sharps injuries overview. A sharps injury is a penetrating stab wound from a needle, scalpel, or other sharp object that may result in exposure to blood or other body fluids. Sharps injuries are typically the result of using dangerous equipment in a fast-paced, stressful, and understaffed environment. The cost of a sharps injury can be a compelling reason to use safer sharps practices. One sharps injury can cause a number of direct and indirect costs for the health care facility, including: