[ 2 syll. (c)har-mai-ne, ch-arma-ine ] The baby girl name Charmaine is pronounced as-SHaaRM EY N- †. Charmaine is used mostly in English and French, and its language of origin is Hebrew, English, and Old Greek. English origin, English use: The name is of disputed origin. It could be a coinage from the English ordinary word 'charm' + 'aine'. 
Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Charmaine. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Charmaine, spread the love and share this with your friends. The meaning of Charmaine has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Charmaine are: 1  American meaning: Song. 2  French meaning: Bountiful orchard.
Below is a charted analysis of the popularity of Charmaine and affiliated names. Charlotte (#10 a year ago) , Caroline (#58) , Carmen (#383) , Lorraine, Laraine, Germaine, Charline, Carol and Charlene are the prominent alternative forms of Charmaine appearing in the Top 1000. Also possibly a variant of the older form Charmian, the name of one of Cleopatra's attendants in Shakespeare's Anthony and Cleopatra, and influenced by names such as Germaine. May also derive from an old Roman family name, Carminea, or possibly related to Carmen and Caroline.
Meanings and history of the name Charmaine: | Edit. Charmaine has multiple meanings and origins. The French version of Charmaine means Variant of Charles Manly. One of Cleopatra's attendants in Shakespeare's Antony and Cleopatra was named Charmian.. The English version of Charmaine means Song.
Charmaine /char-mai-ne/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced shar-MAYNE. It is of English origin, and the meaning of Charmaine is charm. Probably a modern name based on the word charm with-aine as in Lorraine. Also possibly a variant of the older form Charmian, the name of one of Cleopatra's attendants in Shakespeare's Anthony and Cleopatra, and influenced by names such as Germaine. May also derive from an old Roman family name, Carminea, or possibly related to Carmen and Caroline.
The name found some popularity due to The Bachelor's hit song Charmaine in the 1960s. Also possibly a variant of the older form Charmian, the name of one of Cleopatra's attendants in Shakespeare's Anthony and Cleopatra, and influenced by names such as Germaine. May also derive from an old Roman family name, Carminea, or possibly related to Carmen and Caroline.
Meaning of Charmaine. French name. In French, the name Charmaine means-bountiful orchard. Other origins for the name Charmaine include-French, English.The name Charmaine is most often used as a girl name or female name. French Name Meaning-bountiful orchard.
Meaning of Charmaine. English name. In English, the name Charmaine means-Song.. Other origins for the name Charmaine include-English, French, French.The name Charmaine is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-Song. Origin-English. Alternate Origins-French French
Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Charmaine and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Charmaine and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Charmaine is fascinating, learn more about it. The meaning of Charmaine has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Charmaine are: 1  American meaning: Song. 2  French meaning: Bountiful orchard.