Book Gumboot Dancers. A Gumboot dance is an African dance. A Gumboot dance is performed by dancers who wear wellington boots-commonly known as gumboots. Gumboot dancing originated in the mines of South Africa. The Gumboot dance is a percussive dance, where. black miners used their boots as an alternative to their drums. We at Standing Ovations Entertainment book gumboot dancers nationwide. We have gumboot dancers in Johannesburg, Cape Town and Durban.
Gumboot dancer in Olomouc, Czech Republic at a show about Zulu culture. The gumboot dance (or Isicathulo) is an African dance that is performed by dancers wearing wellington boots. In South Africa these are more commonly called gumboots. The boots may be embellished with bells, so that they ring as the dancers stamp on the ground. Origin [edit]. Gumboot dancing was conceived by black miners in South Africa as an alternative to drumming—which authorities restricted. Another reason for gumboot dancing was for the miners in South Africa as they worked they sang.
Gumboot dancing doesn't usually have music to accompany it. bells that are attached to the boots mixed with the beats that the performers are making by slapping their bodies and gumboots sound like an orchestra of drums. African drums are sometimes used. African singing or chanting is also commonly used Music (2007). Transcript of Gumboot Dancing. South African. Gumboot Dancing People nowadays perform gumboot dancing as a way to entertain audiences. Gumboot dancing has evolved exponentially over the time it has been around.
Rooted back in the dark gold mine tunnels of South Africa more than a century ago, gumboot dancing has come full circle. Initially a codified tap used by black miners deprived of conversation, gumboot dancing today is one of the most expressive South African dance genres. 
Gumboot dancing is a century old tradition which originated during the mining era of Johannesburg, South Africa. Dancers wearing gumboots, create rhythms by slapping boots and bodies, using voices and stamping their feet. video: Stephen Smith. http://www.mycompass.ca. 
These performances lead to popularizing this style of dance to where it is performed worldwide today. This dance today is used to show the history of South Africa and as any form of dance, this style has been adapted to many new modern forms of dancing (South African: Gumboot Dance). Stepping involves similar rhythms and instruments as gumboot dancing. Stepping involves using the body as the main instrument by stomping the feet, clapping the hands, and slapping different parts of the body to make rhythms.
Picture from wikimedia.org. Gumboot dancing comes from South Africa workers who worked in the gold mines during the migrant labor system and oppressive Apartheid Pass Laws. During this time, workers were separated from their families and forced to work in harsh conditions (Gumboots: Rhythm is a Language). Stepping involves similar rhythms and instruments as gumboot dancing. Stepping involves using the body as the main instrument by stomping the feet, clapping the hands, and slapping different parts of the body to make rhythms.
People do Gumboot dancing because they work in the mines and if they talk they will be punished by their boss so they use gumboot dance to communicate with each other so they' … re basically sending messages to each other. They use a combination of jazz, ballet, and tumbling. The practice of engaging in capoeira is referred to as jogando (playing) not dancing. That said, Capoeira music is actually its own genre, it may sound similar to both Brazili … an folkloric music and some Central African genres, but is unique from both.