The Kingdom of Aksum was ideally located to take advantage of the new trading situation. Adulis soon became the main port for the export of African goods, such as ivory, incense, gold, slaves, and exotic animals. In order to supply such goods the kings of Aksum worked to develop and expand an inland trading network. Foreign relations, trade and economy. Aksum was an important participant in international trade from the 1st century AD (Periplus of the Erythraean Sea) until circa the later part of the 1st millennium when it succumbed to a long decline against pressures from the various Islamic powers leagued against it.
Aksum reached its peak under the leadership of King Ezana who ruled from around 325 CE to 360 CE. During this time, Aksum expanded its territory and became a major trade center. It was under King Ezana that Aksum conquered the Kingdom of Kush, destroying the city of Meroe. King Ezana also converted to Christianity. He was a devout Christian and Christianity became the major religion of the kingdom.
The Kingdom of Aksum was ideally located to take advantage of the new trading situation. Adulis soon became the main port for the export of African goods, such as ivory, incense, gold, slaves, and exotic animals. In order to supply such goods the kings of Aksum worked to develop and expand an inland trading network. Aksum remained a strong, though weakened, empire and trading power until the rise of Islam in the 7th century. However, unlike the relations between the Islamic powers and Christian Europe, Aksum (see Sahama), which provided shelter to Muhammad 's early followers around 615, was on good terms with its Islamic neighbors.
The Kingdom of Aksum was an ancient kingdom of Africa. It is sometimes called the Kingdom of Axum or Ancient Ethiopia. It was under King Ezana that Aksum conquered the Kingdom of Kush, destroying the city of Meroe. King Ezana also converted to Christianity. He was a devout Christian and Christianity became the major religion of the kingdom.
Axum was the center of the marine trading power known as the Aksumite Kingdom, which predated the earliest mentions in Roman era writings. Around 356 CE, its ruler was converted to Christianity by Frumentius. The original capital of the Kingdom of Aksum, it is one of the oldest continuously inhabited places in Africa. Axum was a naval and trading power that ruled the region from about 400 BCE into the 10th century.
The Kingdom of Aksum or Axum, also known as the Aksumite Empire and Abyssinia, was an important trading nation in northeastern Africa, existing from approximately 100–940 AD. Foreign relations, trade and economy. Aksum was an important participant in international trade from the 1st century AD (Periplus of the Erythraean Sea) until circa the later part of the 1st millennium when it succumbed to a long decline against pressures from the various Islamic powers leagued against it.
Under Ezana (fl 320–360), Aksum became the first major empire to convert to Christianity, and was named by Mani (216–276) as one of the four great powers of his time along with Persia, Rome, and China. Foreign relations, trade and economy. Aksum was an important participant in international trade from the 1st century AD (Periplus of the Erythraean Sea) until circa the later part of the 1st millennium when it succumbed to a long decline against pressures from the various Islamic powers leagued against it.
The wealth of Africa The kingdom of Aksum Trade Trade links between Aksum and South Arabia existed for some time before Aksum’s contact with the Romans began. Aksum benefited from being part of a maritime trading system that linked the Roman Empire and India. 