The most frequently used path to become a nurse is to register for an associate or bachelor's nursing program. An associate degree generally takes two years while a bachelor's degree will take four years. However students can also enroll in a three year diploma program.
There are three major educational paths that can be followed to become a Registered Nurse. A student must successfully complete one of these degree programs to be eligible for the NCLEX-RN licensing examination. Once a student passes this exam they are able to practice as a Registered Nurse (RN).
A: To become a registered nurse online, you have the option of three education paths. You can either pursue a bachelor's of science degree in nursing (BSN) online, get an associate's degree in nursing (ADN), or a diploma from an approved and accredited nursing school.
A: If you want to become a registered nurse you will need to have proper education for that purpose. There are several ways of becoming a nurse like a bachelor's of science in nursing degree or master's of science in nursing degree. However these programs require more than one year of study.
A: To become a RN nurse you can either take ADN (Associate Degree in Nursing) or you can take BSN (Bachelors of Science in Nursing) degree. Associate's degree in nursing takes two years to complete while a BSN is more comprehensive and therefore takes four years to complete.
In order to become a registered nurse, students must graduate from an accredited program. Several options are available, including nursing diplomas, associate degrees or bachelor’s degrees. An associate degree in nursing typically takes two years to complete, though accelerated programs can shorten this timeframe.
An aspiring RN can earn a bachelor's of science in nursing (BSN) in four years at a college or university. If you're already an RN, you can enroll in an RN-to-BSN program which is geared specifically for RNs who have an associate's degree or nursing diploma. This path usually takes about two to three years.
2. Choose the type of nursing school you want to attend. In California, there are three types of pre-licensure nursing programs, and two alternative routes to become a registered nurse: 1  Associate Degree in Nursing (ADN) - Takes 2-3 years. 2  Offered at many community colleges. 3  Prepares you to provide registered nursing care in numerous settings.