The term  ringworm , commonly used to refer to such infections, is a misnomer, since the condition is caused by fungi of several different species and not by parasitic worms. The fungi that cause parasitic infection (dermatophytes) feed on keratin, the material found in the outer layer of skin, hair, and nails. 
The fungi attack skin, nails, and hair, where keratin is the major structural protein, leading to a wide variety of disease states. The major types of dermatophyte infections include: involvement of the scalp (tinea capitis), feet (tinea pedis), groin (tinea cruris), and other body surfaces (tinea corporis). These are typically superficial, involving the epidermis. These infections lead to a variety of clinical manifestations, including tinea capitis, tinea pedis, tinea corporis, tinea cruris, and Majocchi’s granuloma. This topic discusses the clinical features, diagnosis, and treatment of dermatophyte infections of the skin.
der·ma·to·phyte. A fungus that causes superficial infections of the skin, hair, and/or nails, that is, keratinized tissues. Species of Epidermophyton, Microsporum, and Trichophyton are regarded as dermatophytes, but causative agents of tinea versicolor, tinea nigra, and cutaneous candidiasis are not so classified. 
Dermatophytes are fungi that require keratin for growth. These fungi can cause superficial infections of the skin, hair, and nails. Dermatophytes are spread by direct contact from other people (anthropophilic organisms), animals (zoophilic organisms), and soil (geophilic organisms), as well as indirectly from fomites. Transmission of dermatophytes also can occur indirectly from fomites (e.g., upholstery, hairbrushes, hats). Anthropophilic organisms are responsible for most fungal skin infections. Transmission can occur by direct contact or from exposure to desquamated cells.
Tinea unguium, a dermatophyte infection of the nail, is a subset of onychomycosis, which also may be caused by yeast and non-dermatophyte molds. 19 Risk factors for this infection include aging, diabetes, poorly fitting shoes, and the presence of tinea pedis. Transmission of dermatophytes also can occur indirectly from fomites (e.g., upholstery, hairbrushes, hats). Anthropophilic organisms are responsible for most fungal skin infections. Transmission can occur by direct contact or from exposure to desquamated cells.
There is an increased susceptibility to infection when there is a preexisting injury to the skin such as scares, burns, marching, excessive temperature and humidity. Dermatophytes are fungi that can cause infections of the skin, hair, and nails due to their ability to utilize keratin. The organisms colonize the keratin tissues and inflammation is caused by host response to metabolic by-products. 
10. Dermatophytosis (tinea) infections are fungal infections caused by dermatophytes-a group of fungi that invade and grow in dead keratin. Several species commonly invade human keratin and these belong to the Epidermophyton, Microsporum and Trichophyton genera
Dermatophytes are fungi that require keratin for growth. These fungi can cause superficial infections of the skin, hair, and nails. Dermatophytes are spread by direct contact from other people (anthropophilic organisms), animals (zoophilic organisms), and soil (geophilic organisms), as well as indirectly from fomites.
dermatophytosis. 1. any superficial fungal infection caused by a dermatophyte and involving the stratum corneum of the skin, hair, and nails, including onychomycosis and the various forms of tinea. Called also epidermomycosis and epidermophytosis. 2. tinea pedis. An infection of the hair, skin, or nails caused by any one of the dermatophytes. The lesions are characterized by erythema, small papular vesicles, fissures, and scaling. Common sites of infection are the feet (tinea pedis), nails (onychomycosis), and scalp (tinea capitis).