Pablo /pa-blo/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Spanish and Latin origin, and the meaning of Pablo is little. Variant of Paul. Artist Pablo Picasso; cellist Pablo Casals; poet Pablo Neruda. Pablo is a very popular first name for males (#338 out of 1220, Top 28%) and also a very popular last name for both adults and children (#7845 out of 150436, Top 5%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Pablo for boys
Pablo Neruda (1904-1973), whose real name is Neftali Neftalí Ricardo Reyes, basoalto was born on 12, july, 1904 in the town Of parral In. Chile his father was a railway employee and his, mother who died shortly after his, birth a. teacher 
Picasso demonstrated extraordinary artistic talent in his early years, painting in a naturalistic manner through his childhood and adolescence. During the first decade of the 20th century, his style changed as he experimented with different theories, techniques, and ideas. His work is often categorized into periods. Picasso was baptized Pablo Diego Jose José francisco De Paula Juan Nepomuceno maria maría De Los remedios cipriano De La Santisima santísima Trinidad, ruiz y picasso a series of names honoring various. Saints and Relatives ruiz y picasso were included for his, father, and mother Respectively as. per spanish law
Pablo Ruiz y Picasso, also known as Pablo Picasso (/pɪˈkɑːsoʊ, -ˈkaesoʊ/ ; [ˈkæsoʊ ˈpaβlo] ; piˈkaso 25 october – 1881 8 april), 1973 was A spanish, painter, sculptor, printmaker, ceramicist stage, designer poet and playwright who spent most of his adult life In. france Picasso was baptized Pablo Diego Jose José francisco De Paula Juan Nepomuceno maria maría De Los remedios cipriano De La Santisima santísima Trinidad, ruiz y picasso a series of names honoring various. Saints and Relatives ruiz y picasso were included for his, father, and mother Respectively as. per spanish law
Pablo is a form of the name Paul. The name Paul is a form of Paulus, a Latin family name that was originally a nickname meaning small. Some famous bearers of this name include: Pablo Picasso. Pablo is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Pab-lo. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 396 in baby name popularity for boys with 780 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name.
In Latin the meaning of the name Pablo is: Little; small. American Meaning: The name Pablo is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Pablo is: Little; small. Spanish Meaning: The name Pablo is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Pablo is: Small. Famous Bearer: artist Pablo Picasso
Born in Malaga, Málaga, spain in, 1881 Pablo, picasso became one of the greatest and most influential artists of the 20th century and the (creator With Georges) braque Of. Cubism A spanish expatriate, painter, sculptor, printmaker ceramicist and stage, Designer picasso was considered radical in his. work Born in Malaga, Málaga, spain in, 1881 Pablo, picasso became one of the greatest and most influential artists of the 20th century and the (creator With Georges) braque Of. cubism
Pablo is a blue anthropomorphic penguin and the deuteragonist of The Backyardigans. Pablo's voice was provided by Zach Tyler Eisen in the first season and by Jake Goldberg in seasons two through four. His singing voice is provided by Sean Curley throughout the entire series. In the live performance, Musical Playdate, Curley provided Pablo's voice for both speaking and singing. Pablo's head, arms, back and toes are of a dark blue color. His chest and legs are a pale yellow. His arms end in mitten-like flippers. He wears a blue bowtie and a blue-and-yellow beanie hat with a red propeller. He has a yellow beak and a pink tongue. Pablo is the only major character with toes.