GSK said it will make Fluarix Quadrivalent available in time for the 2013-14 flu season and plans to fulfill orders for its trivalent vaccines. Image: GSK's vaccine covers four strains of the influenza virus.
FDA approves first 'quad' influenza vaccine. The US Food and Drug Administration has approved GlaxoSmithKline's Fluarix Quadrivalent vaccine, the first intramuscular vaccine to cover four strains of influenza.
This vaccine is used to prevent infection by the influenza ( flu ) virus. It is also called the seasonal flu shot. Influenza can cause serious illness (rarely death), especially in people at high risk from the infection (such as young children, the elderly, and people with chronic health problems).
​ Fluarix® is indicated for active immunization for the prevention of disease caused by influenza virus subtypes A and type B contained in the vaccine. Fluarix is approved for use in persons 3 years of age and older.
Fluarix is a brand of influenza virus vaccine (injectable). Influenza virus (commonly known as the flu) is a serious disease caused by a virus. Influenza virus can spread from one person to another through small droplets of saliva that are expelled into the air when an infected person coughs or sneezes.
The injectable influenza virus vaccine (flu shot) is a killed virus vaccine. Influenza virus vaccine is also available in a nasal spray form, which is a live virus vaccine. Influenza virus vaccine works by exposing you to a small dose of the virus, which helps your body to develop immunity to the disease. Influenza virus vaccine will not treat an active infection that has already developed in the body. Influenza virus vaccine is for use in adults and children who are at least 6 months old.
Fluarix is used to prevent infection caused by influenza virus. The vaccine is redeveloped each year to contain specific strains of inactivated (killed) flu virus that are recommended by public health officials for that year. Fluarix vaccine (flu shot) is a killed virus vaccine.
The vaccine has been approved for the immunisation of adults and children aged three years and older to prevent disease caused by two A virus strains most common in humans, and two virus B strains.
FLUARIX QUADRIVALENT is a vaccine indicated for active immunization for the prevention of disease caused by influenza A subtype viruses and type B viruses contained in the vaccine. FLUARIX QUADRIVALENT is approved for use in persons 3 years of age and older.