Term Life Insurance. Term life insurance is a good fit for short-term needs or those that have a specific end point. Simply choose a term policy duration to meet those needs—for example, to help ensure your family will be able to pay a 20-year mortgage, you can choose a 20-year term policy. Our policies allow you to choose the length of coverage you need, such as 10, 15, 20, or even 30 years. The security of term insurance with a guarantee to have your premiums returned if you outlive the level-premium period (Terms and conditions apply). A term life insurance policy for needs that last from 1-5 years at most.
Term life insurance or term assurance is life insurance that provides coverage at a fixed rate of payments for a limited period of time, the relevant term. If the life insured dies during the term, the death benefit will be paid to the beneficiary. Term insurance is the least expensive way to purchase a substantial death benefit on a coverage amount per premium dollar basis over a specific period of time.
The maximum amount that an insurance policy will provide over a given period of time or over the life of the policy. For example, if an insurance company has agreed to pay all of a person's medical bills up to $100,000 and the person incurs $135,000 in services, the policyholder must pay $35,000 out of pocket. 
Term insurance is generally used when the need for death benefit protection is temporary or if you are unable to afford the premiums of a permanent life insurance policy. Term insurance typically provides for the largest immediate death benefit amount for each premium dollar. The death benefit of the policy is paid only if the insured dies during that period. If the insured lives beyond the term period, no death benefit is paid. Typically, there are no cash values or loan values for term life insurance.
Simply put, a limit is the highest amount Allstate will pay you for a claim that your insurance policy covers. For example, if your limit is $100,000 and the cost of your accident is $105,000, you'll have to pay the remaining $5,000. You'll often see coverage limits that look like this: $50,000/$100,000. The first number, $50,000, is the maximum amount your coverage will pay per person in an accident. The second number, $100,000, is the maximum your car insurance will pay for the total accident. A higher coverage limit means a higher payout to you on a covered loss. Understanding Deductibles. A deductible is the amount you agree to pay out-of-pocket if you make a claim covered by your car insurance policy. For example, if your deductible is $500 and the accident damage costs $1,500, you'll pay $500 and Allstate will pay the remaining $1,000.
The simplest form of term life insurance is for a term of one year. The death benefit would be paid by the insurance company if the insured died during the one year term, while no benefit is paid if the insured dies one day after the last day of the one year term. If the life insured dies during the term, the death benefit will be paid to the beneficiary. Term insurance is the least expensive way to purchase a substantial death benefit on a coverage amount per premium dollar basis over a specific period of time.
Much more common than annual renewable term insurance is guaranteed level premium term life insurance, where the premium is guaranteed to be the same for a given period of years. The most common terms are 10, 15, 20, and 30 years. If the life insured dies during the term, the death benefit will be paid to the beneficiary. Term insurance is the least expensive way to purchase a substantial death benefit on a coverage amount per premium dollar basis over a specific period of time.
maximum dollar limit. DEFINITION: The maximum dollar limit is the maximum amount of money that an insurance company (or self-insured company) will pay for claims within a specific time period. Maximum dollar limits vary greatly. They may be based on or specified in terms of types of illnesses or types of services. 
Term life insurance provides death benefit protection for a period of one or more years. The death benefit of the policy is paid only if the insured dies during that period. If the insured lives beyond the term period, no death benefit is paid. Typically, there are no cash values or loan values for term life insurance.
Liability limits-The maximum amount your liability policy will pay. Your policy must pay at least $30,000 for each injured person, up to a total of $60,000 per accident, and $25,000 for property damage per accident. This basic coverage is called 30/60/25 coverage. 