fertilization. in human reproduction, the process by which the male's sperm unites with the female's oocyte, creating a new life. The sex and other biologic traits of the new individual are determined by the combined genes and chromosomes that exist in the sperm and oocyte. See also conception and reproduction. Definition. In vitro fertilization (IVF) is a procedure in which eggs (ova) from a woman's ovary are removed. They are fertilized with sperm in a laboratory procedure, and then the fertilized egg (embryo) is returned to the woman's uterus.
cross-fertilisation; cross-fertilization (fertilization by the union of male and female gametes from different individual of the same species). self-fertilisation; self-fertilization (fertilization by the union of male and female gametes from the same individual). superfecundation (fertilization of two or more ova released during the same menstrual cycle by sperm from separate acts of coitus (especially by different males)). • FERTILISATION (noun). The noun FERTILISATION has 2 senses: 1. creation by the physical union of male and female gametes; of sperm and ova in an animal or pollen and ovule in a plant. 2. making fertile as by applying fertilizer or manure. Familiarity information: FERTILISATION used as a noun is rare.
Definition. noun, plural: fertilizations. (biology). (1) A process in sexual reproduction that involves the union of male (sperm) and female (ovum) gametes (each with a single, haploid set of chromosomes) to produce a diploid zygote. (biology) Fertilization may be internal, when it occurs within the female body, or external, when it occurs outside. The process includes plasmogamy (the union of the cytoplasm of the gametes) followed by karyogamy (the union of the nuclei of two gametes).
Medical Definition of FERTILIZATION. : an act or process of making fertile: as a: an act or process of fecundation, insemination, or impregnation b: the process of union of two gametes whereby the somatic chromosome number is restored and the development of a new individual is initiated. 
Noun. 1. fertilization-creation by the physical union of male and female gametes; of sperm and ova in an animal or pollen and ovule in a plant. fecundation, fertilisation, impregnation. conception, creation-the event that occurred at the beginning of something; from its creation the plan was doomed to failure. fertilization. n. 1. (Biology) the union of male and female gametes, during sexual reproduction, to form a zygote. 2. (Biology) the act or process of fertilizing. 3. (Biology) the state of being fertilized.
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. Fertilization is the process in which an egg and a sperm cell come together to form a zygote, beginning the series of events that can result in pregnancy. In mammals, including in human beings, eggs are released from the female ovary, and sperm from the male penis. 
Definition. Simply put, the definition of human fertilization is the union or joining of the egg and the sperm, resulting in a fertilized egg, otherwise known as a zygote. 