Synanceia is a genus of fish of the family Synanceiidae, the stonefishes, whose members are venomous, dangerous, and even fatal to humans. It is one of the most venomous fish currently known in the world. 
The Stone Fish is a mottled brown-greenish in colour (which gives them camouflage) with many venomous spines along its back. Habitat. The stonefish lives primarily above the tropic of Capricorn. Its main habitat is on coral reefs, near and about rocks, or can be found dormant in the mud or sand. 
Synanceia verrucosa is a fish species known as the reef stonefish or simply stonefish. It is a carnivorous ray-finned fish with venomous spines. It lives on reef bottoms camouflaged as a rock. It is the most venomous known fish in the world. The reef stonefish is the most venomous fish in the world. Its dorsal area is lined with 13 spines, each of which has two venom sacs. The spines are sharp and stiff and have been known to pierce boot soles. Effects of the venom include severe pain, shock, paralysis, and tissue death.
Stonefish Facts. Stonefish is the most venomous fish in the world. There are 5 species of stonefish that can be found in the coastal regions of Indian and Pacific oceans. Some species of stonefish live in the rivers. Stonefish lives close to coral reefs and underwater rocks. It often lies buried in the sand in the shallow water
1 Stonefish is the most venomous fish the world. 2  It is also known as dornorn, rockfish, and reef stonefish. 3  Though primarily a marine creature, some of the species of stonefish are also found dwelling in rivers as well. 4  A stonefish, on average is around 30 to 40 cm long. 1 Though primarily a marine creature, some of the species of stonefish are also found dwelling in rivers as well. 2  A stonefish, on average is around 30 to 40 cm long. 3  Some stonefish are also known to grow to 50 cm, though the number of such cases is very low.
Facts About Stonefish. Stonefish, belonging to Synanceiidae family, is the most venomous fish in the world. When a stonefish feels threatened or disturbed, it erects 13 poisonous dorsal fin spines as a defense, but remains motionless. 1 Researches at the Queensland Museum have put forward that stonefish have been found in the gut contents of large sharks, particularly tiger and white sharks. 2  Stonefish can be found single or in a group under rocks and rubble.
Interesting And Amazing Facts About Stonefish. 1  Stonefish is the most venomous fish the world. 2  It is also known as dornorn, rockfish, and reef stonefish. 3  Though primarily a marine creature, some of the species of stonefish are also found dwelling in rivers as well. 4  A stonefish, on average is around 30 to 40 cm long. 1 Though primarily a marine creature, some of the species of stonefish are also found dwelling in rivers as well. 2  A stonefish, on average is around 30 to 40 cm long. 3  Some stonefish are also known to grow to 50 cm, though the number of such cases is very low.
The Synanceia, also known as part of the Stonefish family, are members of the Synanceiidae family whose members are dangerous, venomous, and fatal to humans. In fact, it is considered the most venomous fish in the entire world! A Synanceia Verrucosa. There are 5 different types of fish in the Synanceia genus. 
Stonefish (Synanceia verrucosa). The Stonefish is found on sandy or rubble areas of reefes and shallow lagoons. It is extremely well camouflaged amongst the substrate, at looking at one, it is easy to see how it earned it's common name! The Stonefish is the most venomous fish in the world. 