A mineral is a naturally occurring substance, representable by a chemical formula, that is usually solid and inorganic, and has a crystal structure. It is different from a rock, which can be an aggregate of minerals or non-minerals and does not have a specific chemical composition. Two broad classes of elements are defined with regards to their contribution to a mineral's colour. Idiochromatic elements are essential to a mineral's composition; their contribution to a mineral's colour is diagnostic. Examples of such minerals are malachite (green) and azurite (blue).
The following definitions on what constitutes a mineral were taken from several different sources and are arranged by year:  1 A mineral is an element or chemical compound that is normally crystalline and that has been formed as a result of geological processes (Nickel, E. H., 1995).  2 Minerals are naturally-occurring inorganic substances with a definite and predictable chemical composition and physical properties.. ( 3 O' Donoghue, 1990). 
A mineral, by definition, is. . . 1  Inorganic, which means that it is not made by a living organism. 2  A solid. 3  Has a regular crystal structure. 4  Made by nature which means minerals are not made, directly or indirectly, from human activity. 5  Has a predictable chemical formula. A mineral, by definition, is. . . 1  Inorganic, which means that it is not made by a living organism. 2  A solid. 3  There is one unusual exception. 4  Native mercury is a mineral and is the only metal that is a liquid at normal temperatures. 5  Has a regular crystal structure. 6  The crystal structures are described as crystal systems
For example, quartz is defined by its formula, SiO 2, and a specific crystalline structure that distinguishes it from other minerals with the same chemical formula (termed polymorphs). When there exists a range of composition between two minerals species, a mineral series is defined. Two broad classes of elements are defined with regards to their contribution to a mineral's colour. Idiochromatic elements are essential to a mineral's composition; their contribution to a mineral's colour is diagnostic. Examples of such minerals are malachite (green) and azurite (blue).
4. any of the inorganic elements, as calcium, iron, magnesium, potassium, or sodium, that are essential to the functioning of the human body and are obtained from foods. 5. minerals, Brit. mineral water. 6. of, pertaining to, or of the nature of a mineral. 7. containing or impregnated with minerals. mineral. n. 1. (Minerals) any of a class of naturally occurring solid inorganic substances with a characteristic crystalline form and a homogeneous chemical composition. 2. any inorganic matter. 3. (Mining & Quarrying) any substance obtained by mining, esp a metal ore
Definition of MINERAL for Kids. 1. : a naturally occurring solid substance (as diamond, gold, or quartz) that is not of plant or animal origin. 2. : a naturally occurring substance (as ore, coal, salt, or petroleum) obtained from the ground usually for humans to use. Tweet. : a substance (such as quartz, coal, petroleum, salt, etc.) that is naturally formed under the ground. : a chemical substance (such as iron or zinc) that occurs naturally in certain foods and that is important for good health.
Defining a mineral. A mineral is a naturally occurring inorganic solid, with a definite chemical composition, and an ordered atomic arrangement. This may seem a bit of a mouthful, but if you break it down it becomes simpler. 1  Minerals are naturally occurring. 2  They are not made by humans. 3  Minerals are inorganic. 
Definition. The minerals (inorganic nutrients) that are relevant to human nutrition include water, sodium, potassium, chloride, calcium, phosphate, sulfate, magnesium, iron, copper, zinc, manganese, iodine, selenium, and molybdenum. Cobalt is a required mineral for human health, but it is supplied by vitamin B 12