13 Reviews. 13 Reviews. Cefdinir is an antibiotic prescribed to treat a wide range of bacterial infections, including certain types of pneumonia, sinusitis, bronchitis, strep throat, sore throat, middle-ear infections, and certain skin infections. Before taking cefdinir, let your doctor know of any allergies to cefdinir or penicillin, or any other cephalosporin drugs, such as cephalexin (Keflex) or cefaclor (Raniclor). Also tell your doctor if have a history of kidney disease or colitis.
Bacteria cannot survive without a cell wall. Cefdinir is active against a very wide spectrum of bacteria, including Staphylococcus aureus; Streptococcus pneumoniae; Streptococcus pyogenes (the cause of strep throat); Hemophilus influenzae; Moraxella catarrhalis; E. coli; Klebsiella; and Proteus mirabilis. It is not active against Pseudomonas. Therapeutic uses of cefdinir include otitis media (infections of the middle ear), infections of soft tissues, and respiratory tract infections.
Cefdinir is a third-generation oral cephalosporin antibiotic sold under the brand names Cefzon and Omnicef. As of 2008, cefdinir, as Omnicef, was the highest-selling cephalosporin antibiotic in the United States, with more than US$585 million in retail sales of its generic versions alone. Warner-Lambert licensed this cephalosporin for marketing in US from Fujisawa. Abbott obtained U.S. marketing rights to Omnicef (cefdinir) in December 1998 through an agreement with Warner-Lambert Company. It was approved by FDA on Dec 4, 1997.
Cefdinir (Omnicef ®) is a prescription antibiotic used for treating a number of infections caused by bacteria in both children and adults. Cefdinir is most commonly used to treat the following infections: 1  Bronchitis. 2  Middle ear infection (otitis media). 3  Sinus infection (sinusitis). 4  Pneumonia. 
Cefdinir belongs to a class of antibiotics called cephalosporins, which work by killing bacteria or halting their growth. Be aware that cefdinir, which is available in capsules or in a strawberry-flavored powder that mixes with water, will not work on viral infections: It's not a cure for the common cold or the flu. Before taking cefdinir, let your doctor know of any allergies to cefdinir or penicillin, or any other cephalosporin drugs, such as cephalexin (Keflex) or cefaclor (Raniclor). Also tell your doctor if have a history of kidney disease or colitis.
Antibiotics are commonly used to treat strep throat because they: 1  Kill the bacteria and shorten the time the patient is contagious. 2  The patient usually is no longer contagious 24 to 48 hours after starting antibiotics. 3  Prevent rare complications. Antibiotics are commonly used to treat strep throat because they: 1  Kill the bacteria and shorten the time the patient is contagious. 2  Prevent rare complications. 3  Relieve discomfort and speed healing to some degree.
Strep throat, also called streptococcal pharyngitis, is an infection with group A beta-hemolytic streptococcus bacteria. Strep throat has an incubation period of two to five days and is most common in children 5 to 12 years of age. The illness can occur in clusters and is diagnosed most often in the winter and spring. Antibiotics are commonly used to treat strep throat because they: 1  Kill the bacteria and shorten the time the patient is contagious. 2  Prevent rare complications. 3  Relieve discomfort and speed healing to some degree.
Cefdinir is a broad-spectrum antibiotic and has been used to treat infections of the respiratory tract including pneumonia, sinusitis, and bronchitis. The following represents MIC susceptibility data for a few medically significant microorganisms. Warner-Lambert licensed this cephalosporin for marketing in US from Fujisawa. Abbott obtained U.S. marketing rights to Omnicef (cefdinir) in December 1998 through an agreement with Warner-Lambert Company. It was approved by FDA on Dec 4, 1997.
Cefdinir, (Omnicef Discontinued) is an antibiotic used to treat bacterial infections such as strep throat, E. coli, staph infections, streptococcus infections, middle ear infections, tonsillitis, bronchitis, and pneumonia. Drug interactions include antacids that contain aluminum, magnesium, and iron supplements. The most common side effects include diarrhea, abdominal pain, vomiting, rash, headache, and nausea.
INDICATIONS. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of OMNICEF (cefdinir) and other antibacterial drugs, OMNICEF (cefdinir) should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. 