Assuming the existing conditions do not present any code concerns (ADA, fire, egress, etc.), and is a good core and shell building, with reasonably easy access to necessary utilities, then the finish cost for office space will range between $25-$50 per square foot, depending on the level of finish you are looking for. The median for this type of construction is between $160 and $170 per square foot. Not surprisingly, New York tops the charts for most expensive city to build in for all of these building types.
MANAGING ENERGY COSTS IN RETAIL BUILDINGS Retail buildings in the U.S. spend an annual average of $1.21 per square foot on electricity and 14 cents per square foot on natural gas. In a typical retail building, lighting, cooling, and heating represent between 69 and 84 percent of total use depending on climate, making those systems the best targets for energy savings.When trying to better manage your building’s energy costs, it helps to understand how you are charged for those costs.
Studies have shown that continuously monitoring a building’s energy systems can lead to reductions of 10 to 15 percent in annual energy bills. For the typical 50,000-square-foot retail building, that’s equal to about $8,000 in savings per year! In a typical retail building, lighting, cooling, and heating represent between 69 and 84 percent of total use depending on climate, making those systems the best targets for energy savings.When trying to better manage your building’s energy costs, it helps to understand how you are charged for those costs.
The median cost for this commercial building type hovers around $100 per square foot. Because of the new trends in fast food being more boutique and less assembly line, the cost for a typical fast food restaurant is on the rise. The median for this type of construction is between $160 and $170 per square foot. Not surprisingly, New York tops the charts for most expensive city to build in for all of these building types.
Rich, Thank you for your question. That is a fairly small size for an office building, which puts upwards pressure on the price per square foot. While the chart would suggest a cost in the neighborhood of $160 per square foot, the small square footage could easily push you up into the $200 per square-foot range. The data for this year indicates a $15-$30 per square foot or approximately 13% increase in construction cost over last year, depending on region. Note that over twenty stories starts getting into more unique building characteristics that will drive costs in various ways
3. The average per square foot cost for commercial office space construction can be anywhere between $100 per square foot to $200 per square foot or even more. The cost will depend on the kind of material and fitting and furniture you plan to use for the office construction. The average construction cost per square foot for commercial hvac is around $35 per sqaure foot. Now it depends on you that either you are making it lavish or not. Mostly people who are constructing it is costing them around $35-40 per square foot.
For the most common office building size, two to four stories tall, the range is from just over $140 per square foot in Winston-Salem to over $240 per square foot in New York – Note that this is over $10 per square foot more than last year. The data for this year indicates a $15-$30 per square foot or approximately 13% increase in construction cost over last year, depending on region. Note that over twenty stories starts getting into more unique building characteristics that will drive costs in various ways
Slab – A concrete slab will cost about $4 per square foot. So if a the slab is 24 x 30 foot, then your slab would cost $2880. This price varies though in different areas, and with the cost of concrete. Crawl Space – The cost is based on the perimeter of the home. Adding about $500 for additional support pillars under the house, should leave you with a good idea of how much a crawl space foundation will cost. Basement – Unfinished basement costs in the US vary from $12 to $28 per square foot. Soil conditions vary and it could be even more in some areas.
We get the number $1,944 and $2592. Adding about $500 for additional support pillars under the house, should leave you with a good idea of how much a crawl space foundation will cost. Basement – Unfinished basement costs in the US vary from $12 to $28 per square foot. Soil conditions vary and it could be even more in some areas. Of course unlike with a slab or crawl space you are adding usable square footage