  . Which arteries carry deoxygenated blood? carotid arteries aorta renal arteries pulmonary arteries. Gas and nutrient exchange occur in the: veins. arterioles. arteries. capillaries. Which vessels carry blood away from the heart? venules capillaries arteries veins. Leaky capillaries found in the bone marrow are called_________. arterioles .... 
In the circulatory system, veins (from the Latin vena) are blood vessels that carry blood toward the heart. Most veins carry deoxygenated blood from the tissues back to the heart; exceptions are the pulmonary and umbilical veins, both of which carry oxygenated blood to the heart. In contrast to veins, arteries carry blood away from the heart. Veins are less muscular than arteries and are often closer to the skin. There are valves in most veins to prevent backflow. The arteries are perceived as carrying oxygenated blood to the tissues, while veins carry deoxygenated blood back to the heart. This is true of the systemic circulation, by far the larger of the two circuits of blood in the body, which transports oxygen from the heart to the tissues of the body.
Differences between arteries and veins. arteries are larger, more muscular and more elastic than veins; they carry blood that is under pressure from having been pumped out of the heart; veins are under much less pressure, so they are not as strong. Artery Structure. arteries have three layers: a smooth inner layer; a strong, muscular layer; and a thin outer layer; connective fibers in artery walls allow for the elasticity needed for the artery to function; arteries are usually larger than veins.
carry deoxygenated blood to the heart [except pulmonary veins]; veins, with the exception of the pulmonary vein, carry blood that has been used by body tissues, back to the heart; veins carry blood and waste products to the heart where these will be processed through the lungs and given oxygen again. Artery Structure. arteries have three layers: a smooth inner layer; a strong, muscular layer; and a thin outer layer; connective fibers in artery walls allow for the elasticity needed for the artery to function; arteries are usually larger than veins.
Blood Vessels There are five general classes of blood vessels in the cardio-vascular system: arteries, arterioles, capillaries, venules, and veins (see Figure 5–5). Arteries are elastic vessels that are very strong, able to carry blood away from the heart under high pressure. Arteries: Elastic vessels able to carry blood away from the heart under high pressure. Arterioles: Subdivisions of arteries; they are thinner and have muscles that are innervated by the sympathetic nervous system. Atria: The upper chambers of the heart; they receive blood returning to the heart.
There are two types of blood vessels in the circulatory system of the body: arteries that carry oxygenated blood from the heart to various parts of the body and veins that carry blood towards the heart for purification. Arteries carry oxygenated blood (with the exception of the pulmonary artery and umbilical artery). Veins carry deoxygenated blood (with the exception of pulmonary veins and umbilical vein).
The walls of veins have the same three layers as the arteries. Although all the layers are present, there is less smooth muscle and connective tissue. This makes the walls of veins thinner than those of arteries, which is related to the fact that blood in the veins has less pressure than in the arteries. Because the walls of the veins are thinner and less rigid than arteries, veins can hold more blood. Capillaries. Capillaries, the smallest and most numerous of the blood vessels, form the connection between the vessels that carry blood away from the heart (arteries) and the vessels that return blood to the heart (veins).
carry oxygenated blood from heart [except pulmonary arteries]; arteries, with the exception of the pulmonary artery, carry blood away from the heart. They bring blood that is rich in oxygen to the body. Artery Structure. arteries have three layers: a smooth inner layer; a strong, muscular layer; and a thin outer layer; connective fibers in artery walls allow for the elasticity needed for the artery to function; arteries are usually larger than veins.
Types of arteries and veins. There are two types of arteries in the body: Pulmonary and systemic. The pulmonary artery carries deoxygenated blood from the heart, to the lungs, for purification while the systemic arteries form a network of arteries that carry oxygenated blood from the heart to other parts of the body. Arteries carry oxygenated blood (with the exception of the pulmonary artery and umbilical artery). Veins carry deoxygenated blood (with the exception of pulmonary veins and umbilical vein).
Veins: Blood vessels that carry blood back to the atria; they are less elastic than arteries. Ventricles: The lower chambers of the heart; they receive blood from the atria, which they pump out into the arteries. Venules: Microscopic vessels that link capillaries to veins. Arteries: Elastic vessels able to carry blood away from the heart under high pressure. Arterioles: Subdivisions of arteries; they are thinner and have muscles that are innervated by the sympathetic nervous system. Atria: The upper chambers of the heart; they receive blood returning to the heart.