Oxytocin in women. Oxytocin is a particularly important hormone for women. Oxytocin is a peptide produced in the brain that was first recognized for its role in the birth process, and also in nursing, said Larry Young, a behavioral neuroscientist at Emory University in Atlanta, Georgia. It's sometimes known as the cuddle hormone or the love hormone, because it is released when people snuggle up or bond socially. Even playing with your dog can cause an oxytocin surge, according to a 2009 study published in the journal Hormones and Behavior.
Oxytocin plays an important role in childbirth as it stimulates labor. Oxytocin is released into the bloodstream to stimulate the release of breast milk. Oxytocin is primarily produced in the hypothalamus. Oxytocin promotes contractions of the muscle tissue of the uterus during and after labor. Unlike most hormones, oxytocin is produced in nerve cells rather than glandular cells. It is primarily produced in the hypothalamus, where sensory nerves stimulate the nerve cells to promote its secretion. This electrical activity causes the hormone to bind to a substance in the pituitary gland known as neurophysin I.
Widely referred to as the love hormone, oxytocin has also been dubbed the hug hormone, cuddle chemical, moral molecule, and the bliss hormone due to its effects on behavior, including its role in love and in female reproductive biological functions in reproduction. It is released in large amounts during labor, and after stimulation of the nipples. It is a facilitator for childbirth and breast-feeding.. One review of the evidence says oxytocin has attracted intense attention after the discovery of its amazing variety of behavioral functions. 6. 1  Childbirth.
Studies have looked at oxytocin's role in various behaviors, including orgasm, social recognition, pair bonding, anxiety, and maternal behaviors. As a medication, it is used to cause contraction of the uterus, which is used to start labor, increase the speed of labor, and to stop bleeding following delivery. Oxytocin has peripheral (hormonal) actions, and also has actions in the brain. Its actions are mediated by specific, oxytocin receptors. The oxytocin receptor is a G-protein-coupled receptor that requires magnesium and cholesterol. It belongs to the rhodopsin-type (class I) group of G-protein-coupled receptors
Oxytocin is a powerful hormone. When we hug or kiss a loved one, oxytocin levels drive up. It also acts as a neurotransmitter in the brain. In fact, the hormone plays a huge role in pair bonding. Prairie voles, one of nature 's most monogamous species, produce oxytocin in spades. This hormone is also greatly stimulated during sex, birth, breast feeding—the list goes on
It is transported to, and secreted by, the pituitary gland, which is located at the base of the brain. 1. In chemistry, oxytocin is classed as a nonapeptide (a peptide containing nine amino acids), while its biological classification is as a neuropeptide. It acts both as a hormone and as a brain neurotransmitter. It is released in large amounts during labor, and after stimulation of the nipples. It is a facilitator for childbirth and breast-feeding.. One review of the evidence says oxytocin has attracted intense attention after the discovery of its amazing variety of behavioral functions. 6. 1  Childbirth.
Oxytocin is a relatively short polypeptide hormone composed of nine amino acids. It is produced primarily in the hypothalamus and acts as a neurotransmitter in the brain. Best known for its role in female reproduction, it is actually found in both male and female mammals. Unlike most hormones, oxytocin is produced in nerve cells rather than glandular cells. It is primarily produced in the hypothalamus, where sensory nerves stimulate the nerve cells to promote its secretion. This electrical activity causes the hormone to bind to a substance in the pituitary gland known as neurophysin I.
Known as the love hormone, oxytocin has been shown to play a role in emotional bonding between lovers, and between mothers and their children. In this study, it boosted underperforming neural activity in a key area of the brain that has long been associated with the processing of both empathy and emotion recognition. 
It is also available as a medication. Oxytocin is normally produced in the hypothalamus and stored in the posterior pituitary gland. It plays a role in intimacy, sexual reproduction of both sexes, and during and after childbirth as well as social bonding. Oxytocin has peripheral (hormonal) actions, and also has actions in the brain. Its actions are mediated by specific, oxytocin receptors. The oxytocin receptor is a G-protein-coupled receptor that requires magnesium and cholesterol. It belongs to the rhodopsin-type (class I) group of G-protein-coupled receptors