The Golden Lion Tamarin is one of the most endangered mammals in the world. This Tamarin monkey is nearly extinct primarily because of its magnificent mane. Poachers desire this monkey's hide as they can sell for as much as twenty thousand dollars on the black market! For many happy years the Golden Lion Tamarin was classified as the most common of Tamarins in captivity. Now their status is extremely endangered and they are not the most common tamarin
Click the image to expand. The Golden Lion Tamarin is a golden monkey living in the forest along Brazil's coastline. It is in danger of extinction because almost 90% of the forest has been cut down, and because many have been captured as pets. Body length: 25 to 31cm. The Golden Lion Tamarin has a diverse diet, eating anything from insects and animals such as lizards and frogs, to fruits and honey from flowers. The Golden Lion Tamarin gets its name from its mane, which resembles that of a lion. All adult monkeys in the pack cooperate to raise the children.
The Golden Lion Tamarin is native to the Amazon Rainforests of Brazil. Humans have threatened their habitats by illegal logging, poaching, mining and urbanization of the rainforests in the region. Golden Lion Tamarin [VIDEO]. This video of a Golden Lion Tamarin is brought to us courtesy of Discovery Networks. With mouthfuls of mealworms, this family of Golden Lion Tamarins work for their food. Jorge Ribas hangs out with these curious monkeys.
These interesting animals are critically endangered, as are many of the forests in which they live. Brazil's Atlantic coastal rain forests are disappearing due to ever-expanding logging, agriculture, and industry, and unfortunately, the golden lion tamarin is in danger of vanishing with them. Protection status: Endangered. Size relative to a 6-ft (2-m) man: Lion tamarins take their name from their impressive manes—thick rings of hair reminiscent of Africa's great cats. The golden lion tamarin may be the most beautiful of the four lion tamarin species. Its abundant golden hair frames a charismatic black face and covers its small body and tail. Despite their name, these rare primates have far more in common with their monkey relatives than any feline
The golden lion tamarin (Leontopithecus rosalia) also known as golden marmoset, is a small new world monkey. Native to the Atlantic coastal forests of Brazil, the golden lion tamarin is an endangered species and among the rarest animals in the world. The golden lion tamarin is listed as endangered by the US Fish and Wildlife Service and IUCN. Only about 800 are left in the wild, and about 30% of these were either relocated from depleted areas or released as part of a reintroduction programme.
Tamarin (Golden Lion). Tamarins and marmosets are the smallest monkeys (primates) in the world. The golden lion tamarin is the largest and related to the golden headed and golden rumped tamarins-all are among the most endangered of all mammals. The attractive appearance of the golden lion tamarin has been its downfall in the past. The species has been known to Europeans since they first explored Brazil and it has been popular as a pet since the seventeenth century.
Species Description and Range. The golden lion tamarin’s long, silky fur, particularly at the shoulders, gives it a lionlike mane. Tamarins are some of the smallest members of the primate family. They are only 8 to 14 inches (20-36 cm) long (not including tail) and weigh less than 2 pounds (900 g). 
Declining in number because humans are taking their coastline forest away. The Golden Lion Tamarin is a monkey that lives in the forest along the coastline of Southeastern Brazil. Thriving towns emerged along the coastline because humans also found it to be easier to live in these areas. The Golden Lion Tamarin has a diverse diet, eating anything from insects and animals such as lizards and frogs, to fruits and honey from flowers. The Golden Lion Tamarin gets its name from its mane, which resembles that of a lion. All adult monkeys in the pack cooperate to raise the children.