OR. Mail Accounts Block or allow. To add an entry to Blocked senders, enter the email address or domain that you want to block in the Enter a sender or domain here text box, and then press Enter or select the plus icon next to the text box. For example, to block all email from addresses that end in contoso.com, enter contoso.com in the text box. OR. Mail Accounts Block or allow. To add an entry to Safe senders and recipients, enter the email address or domain that you want to mark as safe
1 From your Bell Mail inbox, click on Options in the top right corner. 2  Select More Options from the drop-down menu. 3  Under Preventing junk email, click Safe and blocked senders, then click Blocked senders. 4  Type the email address of the sender in the Blocked email address or domain box, and then click Add to list. 1 Select More Options from the drop-down menu. 2  Under Preventing junk email, click Safe and blocked senders, then click Safe senders. 3  Type the email address of the sender in the Sender or domain to mark as safe box, and then click Add to list.
1 From your Bell Mail inbox, click on Options in the top right corner. 2  Select More Options from the drop-down menu. 3  Under Preventing junk email, click Safe and blocked senders, then click Blocked senders. 4  Type the email address of the sender in the Blocked email address or domain box, and then click Add to list. I don’t want to receive email from a certain sender in Bell Mail. If you don’t want to get email from certain people or organizations, you can put them on your blocked senders list. 1  From your Bell Mail inbox, click on Options in the top right corner. 2  Select More Options from the drop-down menu. 3  Under Preventing junk email, click Safe and blocked senders, then click Blocked senders
Block a Sender by Email Address in Outlook.com. To delete all messages from a sender in your Outlook.com inbox (or another folder) and add them to you blocked senders list: 1  Open a message from the sender you want to block in Outlook.com. Block Any Email Address in Outlook.com. To add any address or domain name to your Outlook.com's list of blocked senders (without a message from the potential sender at hand): 1  Click the settings gear in your Outlook.com's toolbar. 2  Select More mail settings from the menu that shows. 3  Follow the Safe and blocked senders link under Preventing junk email
1 Follow the Safe and blocked senders link under Preventing junk email. 2  Click Blocked senders. 3  Enter the unwanted address under Blocked email address or domain: . 4  To block mail from all addresses at a domain, enter just the domain name — typically what follows '@' in an email address. Block Any Email Address in Outlook.com. To add any address or domain name to your Outlook.com's list of blocked senders (without a message from the potential sender at hand): 1  Click the settings gear in your Outlook.com's toolbar. 2  Select More mail settings from the menu that shows. 3  Follow the Safe and blocked senders link under Preventing junk email
If you don’t want to get email from certain people or organizations, you can put them on your blocked senders list. 1  From your Bell Mail inbox, click on Options in the top right corner. 2  Select More Options from the drop-down menu. 3  Under Preventing junk email, click Safe and blocked senders, then click Blocked senders. 1 Select More Options from the drop-down menu. 2  Under Preventing junk email, click Safe and blocked senders, then click Safe senders. 3  Type the email address of the sender in the Sender or domain to mark as safe box, and then click Add to list.
1 Under Preventing junk email, click Safe and blocked senders, then click Blocked senders. 2  Type the email address of the sender in the Blocked email address or domain box, and then click Add to list. I don’t want to receive email from a certain sender in Bell Mail. If you don’t want to get email from certain people or organizations, you can put them on your blocked senders list. 1  From your Bell Mail inbox, click on Options in the top right corner. 2  Select More Options from the drop-down menu. 3  Under Preventing junk email, click Safe and blocked senders, then click Blocked senders