A vacuole is a cell organelle found in a number of different cell types. Vacuoles are fluid-filled, enclosed structures that are separated from the cytoplasm by a single membrane. They are found mostly in plant cells and fungi. However, some protist, animal cells, and bacteria also contain vacuoles. Vacuoles are responsible for a wide variety of important functions in a cell including nutrient storage, detoxification, and waste exportation. A plant cell vacuole is surrounded by a single membrane called the tonoplast. Vacuoles are formed when vesicles, released by the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi complex, merge together. Newly developing plant cells typically contain a number of smaller vacuoles
A vacuole (/ˈvaekjuːoʊl/) ˈvækjuːoʊl is a-membrane bound organelle which is present in all plant and fungal cells and some, protist animal and bacterial. cells The function and significance of vacuoles varies greatly according to the type of cell in which they are present, having much greater prominence in the cells of plants, fungi and certain protists than those of animals and bacteria.
The central vacuole is a cellular organelle found in plant cells. It is often the largest organelle in the cell. It is surrounded by a membrane and functions to hold materials and wastes. It also functions to maintain the proper pressure within the plant cells to provide structure and support for the growing plant. If you've ever looked at a diagram of a plant cell, you probably noticed one organelle that stands out and is larger than all of the others. This organelle is known as the central vacuole. The central vacuole is a membrane-bound organelle containing water and other enzymes that function during the life of the plant. Structurally, the central vacuole is surrounded by a phospholipid bilayer. Phospholipids are molecules with a head and tail that form the majority of membranes in our body
Vacuoles of plant cells are larger than those found in animal cells. The central vacuole present in plant cells is one of the important cell organelles. The central vacuole, surrounded by tonoplast, offers support to cells which constitute leaves and other soft parts of plants. The solutes present in vacuoles are known to absorb water. The role played by vacuoles in animal cells is not as important as in plant cells. The functions that vacuoles perform in different types of cells are listed below. Maintaining the turgor pressure and pH in cells are the important vacuole functions.
Many plant cells have a large, single central vacuole that typically takes up most of the room in the cell (80 percent or more). Vacuoles in animal cells, however, tend to be much smaller, and are more commonly used to temporarily store materials or to transport substances. 
Vacuole Function. The Vacuole is a cell organelle that is present only in plant cells. The main vacuole Function is in maintaining the structure and shape of the cell. Cells of plants do not increase in size by expanding their cytoplasm but by increasing the size of their vacuoles. The most useful, and the largest, vacuoles are mostly found in plant cells. Vacuoles are filled with a different liquid called cell sap, instead of protoplasm. The sap’s composition is primarily water, but this can vary from one cell to another and even from one vacuole to another vacuole.
As stated earlier, the primary function of the central vacuole in plant cells is to maintain the turgor of the cell. Turgor is the pressure exerted on the cell wall by the contents of the cell. The central vacuole determines the amount of turgor based on it water content as a result of osmotic pressure. In plant cells, however, there is generally a large single central vacuole. Comprising approximately 90% of an mature plant cell, the central vacuole provides structure and support to the cell by maintaining turgor pressure, which is essentially fluid pressure that keeps the cells rigid.
Confidence votes 173. The plant vacuole stores food, water, and wastes. It gives support to soft structures, such as leaves. When there is an adequate supply of water, the solutes in the vacuole attract water into the vacuole by osmosis, and the cell becomes inflated (turgid). This gives support to soft parts of the plant, like leaves. The Vacuole of a plant cell storage water for the cell the use when the cell needs it It helps digest all of the waste that the plant eats. expel waste products, just like … the vacuole in other cells    It stores water