Font Size. A. A. A. Delusional disorder, previously called paranoid disorder, is a type of serious mental illness called a psychosis in which a person cannot tell what is real from what is imagined. The main feature of this disorder is the presence of delusions, which are unshakable beliefs in something untru
The word paranoia is used to describe when someone is experiencing a delusion that they are being watched, people are out to get them, their life is in danger, they are suffering from an unknown disease, under control of an unknown person or entity or being directed by God etc. 
There are many people with schizophrenia who have a combination of other symptoms, such as a thought disorder, disturbances of affect, and disturbances of behavior, who have never had delusions or hallucinations. No part of this book may be used or reproduced without written permission from HarperCollins Publishers, 10 East 53rd Street, New York, NY 10022. Delusions and hallucinations are probably the best-known symptoms of schizophrenia.
Paranoid schizophrenia is the most common type of schizophrenia in most parts of the world. The clinical picture is dominated by relatively stable, often paranoid, delusions, usually accompanied by hallucinations, particularly of the auditory variety, and perceptual disturbances. 
Persecutory delusions are the most common type of delusions experienced by people with schizophrenia. These types of delusions are based on suspicions of being targeted by someone or something. People with these types of delusions mistakenly believe that they are being followed, harmed, poisoned or tormented. Referential. Referential delusions are another common type of delusion reported by people with schizophrenia. People with referential delusions believe that gestures and words of others are specifically directed at them. They become convinced that they are the focus of song lyrics, books or comments made by someone on television
And certainly delusions and hallucinations are very important and common symptoms of this disease. However, it should be remembered that they are not essential to it; indeed no single symptom is essential for the diagnosis of schizophrenia. No part of this book may be used or reproduced without written permission from HarperCollins Publishers, 10 East 53rd Street, New York, NY 10022. Delusions and hallucinations are probably the best-known symptom
Delusional disorder or paranoid disorder. A person with delusional disorder or paranoid disorder cannot tell what's real or imagined. This is a serious type of mental health disorder called psychosis. The mental health charity Mind says someone with delusional disorder is likely to have a complex, paranoid, but untrue, idea that puts them in conflict with those around them. 1 Grandiose: A person with this type of delusional disorder has an over-inflated sense of worth, power, knowledge or identity. 2  The person might believe they have a great talent or have made an important discovery.
The types of delusional disorder include: 1  Erotomanic: Someone with this type of delusional disorder believes that another person, often someone important or famous, is in love with him or her. 2  The person might attempt to contact the object of the delusion, and stalking behavior is not uncommon. A. A. A. Delusional disorder, previously called paranoid disorder, is a type of serious mental illness called a psychosis in which a person cannot tell what is real from what is imagined. The main feature of this disorder is the presence of delusions, which are unshakable beliefs in something untrue