Intelius.com is a service that allows users to look up a person’s contact information, perform background checks, do reverse phone number searches, review criminal and property records, perform social network searches, and more. 
Twitter0. Intelius is one of the most well-known online searches to use in finding out everything there is to know about a person. Over the years they’ve received a lot of both praise and criticism, mostly concerning how they conduct business and whether what they do is ethical. Free People Background Checks. This company will give you basic search results without charging you anything, but in order to get more detailed info you’ll need to pay a fee. The main problem, though, is that they may charge you for a monthly fee without properly notifying you of such. Be aware of this.
1. There have been several Intelius complaints on the Better Business Bureau website. With that being said, at the time of this video they have a B+ rating and have addressed complaints in a timely manner. In conclusion of my Intelius review, Intelius is a large company that has had some issues but has addressed them every step of the way. Intelius also has access to many more data sources than a lot of the smaller and cheaper background check providers online.
Intelius, Inc. is a public records business headquartered in Bellevue, Washington, United States. It provides information services, including background checks and identity theft protection, and post transaction marketing. In 2012, Intelius was renamed inome to serve as the corporate umbrella, and the Intelius name was given to the division focusingon background checks. By 2015, inome was doing business once again as Intelius. On July 1, 2015, Intelius was acquired by private equity firm H.I.G. Capital
Details. BBB Customer Review Rating plus BBB Rating is not a guarantee of a business' reliability or performance, and BBB recommends that consumers consider a business' BBB Rating and Customer Review Rating in addition to all other available information about the business. According to BBB files, Intelius has worked with BBB to improve the language on its website to clearly and conspicuously disclose all terms to consumers regarding the Identity Protect Service, and has updated its purchase page to require consumers to opt-in to this program as well as create a username and password.
BBB Accreditation. A BBB Accredited Business since. BBB has determined that Intelius meets BBB accreditation standards, which include a commitment to make a good faith effort to resolve any consumer complaints. BBB Accredited Businesses pay a fee for accreditation review/monitoring and for support of BBB services to the public. Factors that raised the rating for Intelius include: 1  Length of time business has been operating. 2  Complaint volume filed with BBB for business of this size. 3  Response to 382 complaint(s) filed against business.
Who We Are. Intelius, Inc. is an information commerce company founded in 2003 that has become a leader in online people data, delivering comprehensive information about individuals, their histories and their connections to others. 
Intelius was founded in 2003 by six former Infospace executives: Naveen Jain, Kevin Marcus, Niraj Shah, Ed Petersen, Chandan Chauhan and John Arnold. Intelius submitted plans for an initial public offering on January 10, 2008, but withdrew in October 2010. In 2012, Intelius was renamed inome to serve as the corporate umbrella, and the Intelius name was given to the division focusingon background checks. By 2015, inome was doing business once again as Intelius. On July 1, 2015, Intelius was acquired by private equity firm H.I.G. Capital
http://www.Best-Background-Check-Serv... -- In this Intelius review we will discuss what services Intelius offers as well as point out the positives and negatives about this large background check & people search company. We will also address Intelius scam accusations and complaints and see if they are warranted or not. In conclusion of my Intelius review, Intelius is a large company that has had some issues but has addressed them every step of the way. Intelius also has access to many more data sources than a lot of the smaller and cheaper background check providers online.