Helium is a chemical element with symbol He and atomic number 2. It is a colorless, odorless, tasteless, non-toxic, inert, monatomic gas that heads the noble gas group in the periodic table. Its boiling and melting points are the lowest among all the elements. On Earth it is relatively rare — 5.2 ppm by volume in the atmosphere. Most terrestrial helium present today is created by the natural radioactive decay of heavy radioactive elements (thorium and uranium, although there are other examples), as the alpha particles emitted by such decays consist of helium-4 nuclei.
Uses: Helium is a light, odorless, colorless, inert, monatomic gas. It can form diatomic molecules, but only weakly and at temperatures close to absolute zero. Helium has the lowest melting point of any element and its boiling point is close to absolute zero. 
Helium is not known to be toxic. Characteristics: Helium is a light, odorless, colorless, inert, monatomic gas. It can form diatomic molecules, but only weakly and at temperatures close to absolute zero. Helium has the lowest melting point of any element and its boiling point is close to absolute zero. Helium is also made by nuclear fusion of hydrogen in stars like our own. Image: Gnixon. Helium on earth comes from nuclear fission of radioactive elements such as uranium. Here a radioactive nucleus emits a helium nucleus (also known as an alpha particle).
0.00018 g/cm³. Appearance. Helium is colorless. Other physical properties. Helium is the second least dense element. Chemical properties. Helium is odorless and does not react easily with other elements. Compounds. Uses. Helium is used to inflate weather and party balloons as well as modern airships and blimps.
This trace amount of helium is not gravitationally bound to the earth and is constantly lost to space. The earth's atmospheric helium is replaced by the decay of radioactive elements in the earth's crust. Alpha decay, one type of radioactive decay, produces particles called alpha particles. An alpha particle can become a helium atom once it captures two electrons from its surroundings. 
Its abundance is similar to this figure in the Sun and in Jupiter. This is due to the very high nuclear binding energy (per nucleon) of helium-4 with respect to the next three elements after helium. This helium-4 binding energy also accounts for why it is a product of both nuclear fusion and radioactive decay. Most helium in the universe is helium-4, and is believed to have been formed during the Big Bang. On Earth it is relatively rare — 5.2 ppm by volume in the atmosphere. Most terrestrial helium present today is created by the natural radioactive decay of heavy radioactive elements (thorium and uranium, although there are other examples), as the alpha particles emitted by such decays consist of helium-4 nuclei.
Helium was made in the first three minutes of the universe’s existence, when temperatures everywhere were high enough for nuclear fusion to occur. This short, high energy phase is represented at the very bottom of the diagram. Helium is also made by nuclear fusion of hydrogen in stars like our own. Image: Gnixon. Helium on earth comes from nuclear fission of radioactive elements such as uranium. Here a radioactive nucleus emits a helium nucleus (also known as an alpha particle).
The element helium is an inert or noble gas, and is found on the periodic table with the other inert gases in Group 18. They're the elements down the far right column of the table. 
Gaseous chemical element, symbol: He, atomic number: 2 and atomic weight 4,0026 g/mol. Helium is one of the noble gases of group O in the periodic table. It’s the second lightest element. 
Helium is one of the so-called noble gases. Helium gas is an unreactive, colourless, and odourless monoatomic gas. Helium is available in pressurised tanks. Helium is the second most abundant element in the universe after hydrogen. α-particles are doubly ionised helium atoms, He 2+ . 