The total area of Kenya is 224,960 square miles; almost 5,200 sq. miles of this total takes the form of fresh water, mainly in Lake Rudolf. Location Kenya is positioned on the equator on Africa's east coast. Its northernmost and southernmost points are approximately equidistant--a little over 40 north and south of the equator. Kenya shares borders with five other countries. The Coastal Region extends some 250 miles from the southern border where Kenya meets Tanzania, to the border with Somalia in the north. This region is characterized by a variety of geographical features, a variety that is particularly pronounced as one travels south or north.
Sixty percent of the Muslim population lives in Kenya's Coastal Region, comprising 50% of the total population there. Roughly 4% of Muslims are Ahmadiyya, 8% Shia and another 8% are non-denominational Muslims, while 73% are Sunni. Although Kenya is the biggest and most advanced economy in east and central Africa, and has an affluent urban minority, it has a Human Development Index (HDI) of 0.519, ranked 145 out of 186 in the world.
These activities span the Great Lakes region of Burundi, Rwanda, Tanzania, and Uganda, and the Horn of Africa region that includes Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, and Somalia. About East Africa Regional. Through the East Africa regional program, USAID works across borders to strengthen food security, improve economic growth, prevent conflict, and improve health systems, with a particular focus on fighting HIV/AIDS.
Mombasa. Mombasa is Kenya's oldest town with its origins dating back as far as 500BC and up until recent times has been Africa's trading centre with Asia. The town has a large population of Asians and the whole region is strongly Islamic. Mombasa has the oldest fort in Africa, Fort Jesus, built by Portugese explorers in the 16th century.The fort is now a national museum and houses well preserved artefacts and relics, some dating back 300 years. Lamu Island. Located off the northern coastline of Kenya, Lamu is an historical town with many old buildings, narrow streets and friendly Arab population. It has been trading center and already in the 11th Century dhows sailed along the East African coast to Arabia, Persia and India.
Print this map. Kenya is named after Mount Kenya, a major landmark and the second highest mountain peak in Africa, and its first inhabitants were hunter-gatherers related to modern Khoisan speakers. Bantu-speaking farmers began to populate the region by the first millennium AD followed quickly by Arab traders. 
The capital, Nairobi, is a regional commercial hub. The economy of Kenya is the largest by GDP in East and Central Africa. Agriculture is a major employer; the country traditionally exports tea and coffee and has more recently begun to export fresh flowers to Europe. The service industry is also a major economic driver. Although Kenya is the biggest and most advanced economy in east and central Africa, and has an affluent urban minority, it has a Human Development Index (HDI) of 0.519, ranked 145 out of 186 in the world.
Kenya lies across the equator in east-central Africa, on the coast of the Indian Ocean. It is twice the size of Nevada. Kenya borders Somalia to the east, Ethiopia to the north, Tanzania to the south, Uganda to the west, and Sudan to the northwest. 
Its capital and largest city is Nairobi. Kenya's territory lies on the equator and overlies the East African Rift covering a diverse and expansive terrain that extends roughly from Lake Victoria to Lake Turkana (formerly called Lake Rudolph) and further south-east to the Indian Ocean. Although Kenya is the biggest and most advanced economy in east and central Africa, and has an affluent urban minority, it has a Human Development Index (HDI) of 0.519, ranked 145 out of 186 in the world.
Kenya. As a marine and air transportation gateway to East Africa—a region with a population of roughly 140 million people—Kenya occupies a key geographical location, and at US $790 (2010), Kenya leads the regional economy with the highest per capita gross national income (GNI). 1 The JICA Kenya Office oversees JICA's work in Eritrea, Seychelles and Somalia. 2  For information on Eritrea, Seychelles and Somalia, see their web pages.