cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), the fluid that flows through and protects the four ventricles of the brain, the subarachnoid spaces, and the spinal canal. It is composed mainly of secretions of the choroid plexuses in the lateral ventricles and in the third and the fourth ventricles of the brain and is clear and colorless.
The fluid that circulates through the ventricles of the brain, the central canal of the spinal cord and the subarachnoid spaces is cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). CSF is an u … ltrafiltrate of blood plasma, produced in the choroid plexus in the ventricles and basal cisterns.
The cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is produced from arterial blood by the choroid plexuses of the lateral and fourth ventricles by a combined process of diffusion, pinocytosis and active transfer. A small amount is also produced by ependymal cells.
cerebrospinal fluid. a fluid produced by ependymal cells that cover choroid plexuses in the ventricles of the brain; the fluid circulates in the ventricles, the central canal, and the subarachnoid space around the brain and spinal cord.
THE NORMAL CSF. The cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is produced from arterial blood by the choroid plexuses of the lateral and fourth ventricles by a combined process of diffusion, pinocytosis and active transfer. A small amount is also produced by ependymal cells.
The ventricles of the brain are a communicating network of cavities filled with cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and located within the brain parenchyma. The ventricular system is composed of 2 lateral ventricles, the third ventricle, the cerebral aqueduct, and the fourth ventricle (see the following images).
Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF). The fluid filled caverns and canals inside the brain constitute the ventricular system of the brain. CSF is produced by a special tissue called the choroid plexus – a tuft of capillary projections present in the ventricles, that are covered in pia mater and have an ependymal covering.
Cerebrospinal fluid. CSF is a clear, watery fluid that fills the ventricles of the brain and the subarachnoid space around the brain and spinal cord. CSF is produced primarily by the choroid plexus of the ventricles (up to 70% of the volume), most of it being formed by the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricles.