Simple-yet-exotic name with a creative meaning. Actress Sanaa Lathan introduced it to most people, and it's been on the U.S. popularity list since 2003. Sanne, a popular name in the Netherlands, has a similar feel, as does Sana. 
Sana Name Meaning. The meaning of Sana is “Brilliance”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. If you consider naming your baby Sana we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
Sanaa is the Swahili word for “art” or more specifically a “work of beauty”. Sana’a is also the capital city of Yemen on the Arabian Peninsula. The ancient city was purportedly founded by Shem, son of Noah and the name is thought to be derived from a Southern Arabian word meaning “well-fortified”. Sanaa is a highly original name and a true “work of beauty”. Popularity of the Girl Name Sanaa. You need Adobe Flash Player 6 (or above) to view the charts. It is a free and lightweight installation from Adobe.com.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Sana and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Sana and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Sana is fascinating, learn more about it. If you consider naming your baby Sana we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
The content on this site does not constitute any type of legal or religious advice. Always consult your local imam or other knowledgeable individuals before making a decision about choosing a baby name. Search baby names and answers to baby name questions: 
Sana /sana/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced sa-NAH. It is of Arabic and Hindi origin, and the meaning of Sana is  brilliant; praise . Sana is a somewhat popular first name for females (#4113 out of 4276, Top 96%) and an even more popular surname for both adults and children (#51458 out of 150436, Top 34%). (2000 U.S. Census).
Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Sana. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Sana, spread the love and share this with your friends. If you consider naming your baby Sana we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
Find Sana meaning and definition at Hamariweb.com name dictionary a Best place to find your accurate name meanings in Urdu. Sana name reviews, Origin, gender, rating an many more about Sana. 
Variations. Sana is a somewhat popular first name for females (#4113 out of 4276, Top 96%) and an even more popular surname for both adults and children (#51458 out of 150436, Top 34%). (2000 U.S. Census). The only prominent variation form of Sana (unlisted) ranked in the Top 1000 is Sanna
[ more ]. Sana is a somewhat popular first name for females (#4113 out of 4276, Top 96%) and an even more popular surname for both adults and children (#51458 out of 150436, Top 34%). (2000 U.S. Census). The only prominent variation form of Sana (unlisted) ranked in the Top 1000 is Sanna