If you are working in Thailand, living in Thailand and running your own business there or if you wish to make investments in Thailand and need to get a bank loan from a local bank, then there are some prerequisites that you should know about. Any law firm in Thailand will be able to tell you that if a local bank is open to giving you a personal loan, the interest rates will be more or less competitive, given you meet all of the requirements and therefore, you should definitely shop around for loans with better interest rates.
Based on my understanding: 1  A foreigner cannot be the primary borrower on a mortgage in Thailand. 2  It is possible for a foreigner to be the primary borrower on a mortgage for a condo through a foreign (e.g. Singapore) division of some banks (I think UOB, Bangkok Bank, and maybe Citibank do this). 3  Back to top. Based on my understanding: 1  A foreigner cannot be the primary borrower on a mortgage in Thailand. 2  However, they can be a secondary borrower to their (legally registered) spouse or immediate relative. 3  Individual banks will have additional polices and restrictions on top of this, so only way to know is to check around
1 However foreigners generally cannot mortgage properties in Thailand. 2  In fact, mortgage lending by local banks to foreigners was virtually unheard of in Thailand. 3  Nonetheless, in recent years we have seen a slight shift in policies to allow foreigners limited access to financing. There are some important criteria to qualify a foreigner to access bank loans are as follows; 1  At least a 1-year work permit or a Thai resident permit. 2  A letter of employment indicating their years of service in Thailand and their annual salary.
Loan. A loan is one of the most common financing options available in Thailand because it has a higher chance for approval, and many local banks are willing to offer this service to foreigners who meet their requirements. Offshore Financing. If you're not living in Thailand but you're planning to purchase a property here, you can apply for offshore financing. This option, which was introduced in 2005, gives foreigners the opportunity to finance their property purchase in the country even if they're not qualified for a home loan.
Foreigners generally cannot obtain a mortgage from local Thai banks to finance the purchase of their Thailand property investment. Most of the financial institutions in Thailand provide loans for real estate purchases to Thais and Thai Companies. There are generally two other options available to foreigners to finance their Thailand house or condo purchase. Historically, many foreign buyers had taken a mortgage against their property in their home countries. This is more difficult than ever given the economic crisis, yet still an option for some.
Eligibility. 1  Foreigners aged between 21 and 65 years at the end of the loan period. 2  Minimum and verifiable income of US$60,000 or S$72,000 per annum for those with a work permit in Thailand and US$85,000 or S$100,000 per annum for ‘other’ foreigners resident or not resident in Thailand. 
A Foreigner can get a loan in Thailand without all the paperwork most think they need and it is perfectly legal and endorsed by the government. The loan can be in the name of a foreigner. Based on my understanding: 1  A foreigner cannot be the primary borrower on a mortgage in Thailand. 2  However, they can be a secondary borrower to their (legally registered) spouse or immediate relative. 3  Individual banks will have additional polices and restrictions on top of this, so only way to know is to check around
In most cases, foreigners looking for a mortgage to buy property in Australia can borrow up to 80% of the property value. 1  Foreign citizens living outside Australia: You can borrow up to 80% of the property value. 
I know of a foreigner working on Thailand who got a mortgage for a house. His wife doesn't work. I think he had to put down a good chunk of money as a down payment and it took a lot of negotiation with the bank but he got it. Based on my understanding: 1  A foreigner cannot be the primary borrower on a mortgage in Thailand. 2  However, they can be a secondary borrower to their (legally registered) spouse or immediate relative. 3  Individual banks will have additional polices and restrictions on top of this, so only way to know is to check around