Searing tuna steaks in a hot skillet caramelizes the surfaces of the fish and locks in the moisture. Start with 3/4-inch-thick steaks. 1  Choose a heavy skillet that best fits the number of tuna steaks you are cooking. 2  Add 1 to 3 teaspoons cooking oil or olive oil to lightly coat the skillet. 3  Heat the skillet over medium-high heat until hot. 4  Add the tuna steaks.
Step 7. Bake for approximately 25 to 45 minutes at 350 degrees Fahrenheit. Cooking time depends on the oven temperature, quantity and size of steaks. For example, a 7-ounce tuna steak bakes in 20 minutes at 400 degrees Fahrenheit. Step 1. Preheat the oven to between 350 and 450 degrees Fahrenheit. You can bake tuna at any temperature within this range, but cooking times will vary according to temperature, size and thickness of the tuna steak.
Alex – it all depends on the thickness of your tuna steaks and the temperature of the grill. In this case the steaks are roughly 1.5 inches thick. I also suggested that you adjust the temperature so that you can hold your hand over the grates for 4-5 seconds you are at the perfect temp. 1 Medium - 4½ minutes on each side. 2  Medium Well - 5 minutes on each side. 3  Well-Well I don't recommend this but if you wish to kill the tuna again cook it for 6 minutes or more
4. Bake the tuna. Place the baking dish in the preheated oven and bake until the skin is no longer pink and flakes when poked with a fork, about 10 to 12 minutes. The actual cooking time will depend upon on how thick your steaks are. Ahi tuna steaks are mostly grilled or seared to bring out the best in their flavour, but you can also bake them to reach a different texture. In case you are buying a piece of sushi-grade tuna, you can forego cooking and serve it raw. 1  Prep time (Searing): 10 minutes. 2  Cook time: 4-5 minutes. 3  Total time: 15 minutes.
1 Heat your grill to a surface temperature of 400 degrees. 2  Rub oil on tuna steaks and season with salt and pepper. 3  If you enjoy your tuna steak rare to medium rare grill your tuna approximately 3 minutes per inch of thickness. 1 6-8oz Ahi tuna steaks, at least 1 inch think. 1 Tablespoon extra virgin unfiltered olive oil. Salt and pepper to taste. 1 
3. Grill the tuna steaks. Tuna steaks will usually need to cook for roughly 4 to 6 minutes per 1/2-inch (1.27-cm) thickness. Turn once in the middle of the cooking process to promote even cooking. 1  Leave the grill uncovered if using charcoal but cover it if using gas. Broil the tuna for 3 minutes per side. After 3 minutes, flip the tuna steaks over to the other side and return to the broiler for an additional 3 minutes or until done. 1  Place the broiler pan on the top rack of the oven, roughly 4 inches (10 cm) away from the top heating element.
1 Reduce heat to medium. 2  Place tuna on the grill rack over heat. 3  Cover the grill. 4  Grill for 4 to 6 minutes per 1/2-inch thickness or until fish begins to flake when tested with a fork but is still pink in the center, turning once halfway through cooking. Start with 3/4-inch-thick steaks. 1  Choose a heavy skillet that best fits the number of tuna steaks you are cooking. 2  Add 1 to 3 teaspoons cooking oil or olive oil to lightly coat the skillet. 3  Heat the skillet over medium-high heat until hot. 4  Add the tuna steaks.
1 Heat the skillet over medium-high heat until hot. 2  Add the tuna steaks. 3  The steaks should sizzle when added. 4  Cook, uncovered, for 6 to 9 minutes or until fish begins to flake when tested with a fork but is still pink in the center, turning once during cooking. Start with 3/4-inch-thick steaks. 1  Choose a heavy skillet that best fits the number of tuna steaks you are cooking. 2  Add 1 to 3 teaspoons cooking oil or olive oil to lightly coat the skillet. 3  Heat the skillet over medium-high heat until hot. 4