1 Dendrites are specialized extensions of the cell body. 2  They function to obtain information from other cells and carry that information to the cell body. 3  Many neurons also have an axon, which carries information from the soma to other cells, but many small cells do not. 1 Many neurons also have an axon, which carries information from the soma to other cells, but many small cells do not. 2  Axons terminate in endfeet, or terminal boutons (buttons), which transmit information to the receiving cell. 3  Dendrites and axons, both extensions of the cell body, are also referred to as processes.
Beside these specific organelles that help the nerve cell do its job the neuron contains the normal organelles that are found in basic cells in both animals and humans, these organelles are found in the the soma of the nerve cell. TO GO BACK. The Cell Project. which have the specific purpose of increasing the surface area of the cell so that it can receive and send out electrochemical signals to other nerve cells which then control the body. Another type of organelle is the.
The soma (main part of the neuron in which the dendrites branch off of) contains many organelles, including granules called Nissl granules, which are composed largely of rough endoplasmic reticulum and free polyribosomes. The cell nucleus is a key feature of the soma. 
A neuron has many of the same organelles such as mitochondria, cytoplasm and a nucleus, as other cells in the body. 1  Nucleus-contains genetic material (chromosomes) including information for cell development and synthesis of proteins necessary for cell maintenance and survival. (Remember that 1 micron is equal to one thousandth of a millimeter!). Neurons are similar to other cells in the body because: 1  Neurons are surrounded by a cell membrane. 2  Neurons have a nucleus that contains genes. 3  Neurons contain cytoplasm, mitochondria and other organelles. 4  Neurons carry out basic cellular processes such as protein synthesis and energy production
The other type of process in the idealized neuron is the axon. Each neuron has only one axon and it is usually straighter and smoother than the dendritic profiles. Axons also contain bundles of microtubules and neurofilaments and scattered mitochondria. The most numerous cellular constituents of the central nervous system are the non-neuronal, neuroglial (nerve glue) cells that occupy the space between neurons. It has been estimated that there are roughly 360 billion glial cells, which comprise 80-90% of the cells in the CNS.
nucleus. located in the cell body; an oval shaped membrane-bond structure found in the body of the neuron; contains the nucleolus and chromosomes which are necessary for the coded production of proteins within the cell.
The cone-shaped region of the cell body where the axon originates is termed the axon hillock. This area is free of ribosomes and most other cell organelles, with the exception of cytoskeletal elements and organelles that are being transported down the axon. The most numerous cellular constituents of the central nervous system are the non-neuronal, neuroglial (nerve glue) cells that occupy the space between neurons. It has been estimated that there are roughly 360 billion glial cells, which comprise 80-90% of the cells in the CNS.
the neuron is composed of 4 parts the cell body which contains the nucleus the axon which carry the information and the terminal button which distribute the neurons the dendri … tes which are the branches that come out.... the dendrites receive the signal. 4 people found this useful. Yes. The two main types of cells, Prokaryotic (mostly independent) and Eukaryotic (mostly dependent), are different so they both have different sets of organelles.
the neuron is composed of 4 parts the cell body which contains the nucleus the axon which carry the information and the terminal button which distribute the neurons the dendri … tes which are the branches that come out.... the dendrites receive the signal. 