Biological Engineering is the epitome of a diverse education, field of study, and institution. Biological Engineers study biology from an engineering perspective, applying engineering principles to biological processes in order to build better solutions to a large variety of problems. Engineering involves facing failure with a positive attitude, realizing that failure is one more way (and often one of the best ways) toward learning. Engineering is not just taking information out of a book. The teaching of engineering must involve creativity and hands-on experience.
View full size image. Biomedical engineering, or bioengineering, is the application of engineering principles to the fields of biology and health care. Bioengineers work with doctors, therapists and researchers to develop systems, equipment and devices in order to solve clinical problems
Biological engineering is a science-based discipline founded upon the biological sciences in the same way that chemical engineering, electrical engineering, and mechanical engineering can be based upon chemistry, electricity and magnetism, and classical mechanics, respectively. Biological engineering can be differentiated from its roots of pure biology or other engineering fields. Biological studies often follow a reductionist approach in viewing a system on its smallest possible scale which naturally leads toward the development of tools like functional genomics.
Career Definition. The job responsibilities of a biological engineer are diverse. A biological engineer may study the environment to improve the ways we conserve soil, water and other natural resources. He or she may design new equipment or methods used in medicine or agriculture, or specialize in power systems. Education Required. A bachelor's degree in biological engineering or a related field is necessary for nearly all entry-level positions. Biological engineer students might choose from four areas of specialization, including environmental, biomedical, bioprocess and agricultural.
Biological Engineer. Engineers who know biology. Biological engineering is a new, rapidly developing discipline that uses scientific principles involving the life sciences to create products and processes to meet human needs in a profitable, effective manner. 
For example, biomimetics is a branch of biological engineering which strives to find ways in which the structures and functions of living organisms can be used as models for the design and engineering of materials and machines. Biological engineering can be differentiated from its roots of pure biology or other engineering fields. Biological studies often follow a reductionist approach in viewing a system on its smallest possible scale which naturally leads toward the development of tools like functional genomics.
Hence neither biological engineering nor biomedical engineering is wholly contained within the other, as there can be non-biological products for medical needs as well as biological products for non-medical needs (the latter including notably biosystems engineering). Biological engineering can be differentiated from its roots of pure biology or other engineering fields. Biological studies often follow a reductionist approach in viewing a system on its smallest possible scale which naturally leads toward the development of tools like functional genomics.
Biological systems engineering or biosystems engineering is a broad-based engineering discipline with particular emphasis on biology and chemistry. A biological systems engineer has a background in what both environmental engineers and biologists do, thus bridging the gap between engineering and the (non-medical) biological sciences-although this is variable across academic institutions.
Biological Engineering. Biological Engineering is an interdisciplinary area focusing on the application of engineering principles to analyze biological systems and to solve problems in the interfacing of such systems -- plant, animal or microbial--with human-designed machines, structures, processes and instrumentation. A basic goal is to design technology that operates in harmony with the biology of living systems. In many cases, currently available knowledge is inadequate to support engineering design of food and biological processes.