When will my baby be old enough to get the flu vaccine? • Flu vaccine may be given to children six months of age and older. • Children aged six months through eight years of age receive 2 doses of flu vaccine at least one month apart the first year they receive the vaccine. Only one dose per year is needed after that.
1 A flu vaccine is the best way to protect against the flu. 2  If the child you care for is 6 months or older, they should get a flu vaccine each year. 3  Infants younger than 6 months are at high risk for serious flu-related complications, but cannot get a vaccine.
All infants 6 months or older should get the vaccine, even if they have had a flu-like illness. The flu vaccine is not approved for children under 6 months old. 1  Your child will need a second flu vaccine around 4 weeks after receiving the vaccine for the first time. 2  There are two types of flu vaccine.
To help prevent getting the flu, CDC recommends that everyone 6 months and older get a yearly flu vaccine. Getting a yearly vaccine is especially important for young children because they are at increased risk of getting severe illness from flu.
A complete list of influenza vaccines that are available for the 2015-2016 season can be found on CDC’s influenza website. Your child’s health care provider will know which vaccines are right for your child. 1  CDC recommends that everyone 6 months of age and older get a seasonal flu vaccine.
1 The nasal spray flu vaccine can be given to children 2 years and older. 2  It's recommended for healthy children ages 2 through 8 years. 3  If the nasal spray isn't immediately available, the flu shot should be used. 4  Side effects of the nasal spray might include runny nose, cough, fever, wheezing, headache and muscle aches.
The flu vaccine is available as a shot and a nasal spray. The nasal spray vaccine is for healthy children and adolescents ages 2 to 17 (and in healthy adults ages 18 to 49). It is recommended, instead of the shot, for healthy children ages 2 to 8 years old.