Gemba means the real place and is intended to get you to the location where something is really going on, whether a news story or a sporting event or a factory floor. It's use has grown to include a more comprehensive approach. First, it requires a deep curiosity to know what is really going on. 2. Know your gemba. I see people refer to the gemba as the factory floor, as if they were synonymous. This is true if the problem relates to the factory floor. And there is no question that people should be spending more time there understanding what is going on.
1 Go to gemba: The term means to go and see what is really happening rather than talk about it, read about it, or try to recall it from memory. 2  Nothing short of actually doing the work gives one quite the same perspective on a process as seeing it firsthand. Gemba-Related Terms. In your Lean travels, you will likely hear two derivative terms from the word gemba. 1  Go to gemba: The term means to go and see what is really happening rather than talk about it, read about it, or try to recall it from memory.
What is Gemba is a common question when one is first learning Lean. In this article, I’ll explain the concept of the Gemba and also show what is entailed in a Gemba Walk. The concept of the Gemba means “the place where value is added” – which means that it’s the place where the work is done. In North America, the term “front lines” is a common term to describe the same concept. 
Or at a customer's place of business. Wherever gemba is, go there. In lean manufacturing, this is called the gemba walk. It's the best way to see, firsthand and unmediated, what works and doesn't. It's the best way to get the information you need to make the best possible decisions – usually in the most efficient possible manner. Related.
In quality management, gemba means the manufacturing floor and the idea is that if a problem occurs, the engineers must go there to understand the full impact of the problem, gathering data from all sources. Unlike focus groups and surveys, gemba visits are not scripted or bound by what one wants to ask. In business, gemba, or genba, actually refers to the place within the business where value is created-either for the customer or for the business itself. For example, in manufacturing the genba refers to the factory floor, where the action is.
gemba. A Japanese word that literally means the real place, used in business process improvement contexts to refer to the place where value is added, such as a manufacturing area or a workshop.
Gemba (+4-Min MP3, +6-Page PDF). Literally translated, “gemba” means ‘the real place’. (Note: You may also hear the term as genba —with an ‘N’.) To experienced practitioners of Lean, this means the place where work is actually being done or value is being created. Gemba-Related Terms. In your Lean travels, you will likely hear two derivative terms from the word gemba. 1  Go to gemba: The term means to go and see what is really happening rather than talk about it, read about it, or try to recall it from memory.
Japanese detectives call the crime scene gemba, and Japanese TV reporters may refer to themselves as reporting from gemba. In business, gemba refers to the place where value is created; in manufacturing the gemba is the factory floor. It can be any site such as a construction site, sales floor or where the service provider interacts directly with the customer. Unlike focus groups and surveys, gemba visits are not scripted or bound by what one wants to ask. Glenn Mazur introduced this term in the Quality Function Deployment (QFD, a quality system for new products where manufacturing has not begun) to mean the customer's place of business or lifestyle.
Genba (現場, also romanized as gemba) is a Japanese term meaning the real place.. Japanese detectives call the crime scene gemba, and Japanese TV reporters may refer to themselves as reporting from genba. In business, genba refers to the place where value is created; in manufacturing the genba is the factory floor. Gemba walks denote the action of going to see the actual process, understand the work, ask questions, and learn. It is known as one fundamental part of Lean management philosophy. Taiichi Ohno, an executive at Toyota, led the development of the concept of the Gemba Walk.