A Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics answered. Beans can be counted either as vegetables or in the meat, poultry, fish, beans, eggs and nuts group. Generally, if you regularly eat meat, poultry and fish you can count beans in the vegetable group. One-half cup of cooked beans is one serving
Best Answer: No peanuts is not a fruit. Peanuts and peanut butter fit into the the Meat, Poultry, Fish, Dry Beans, Eggs and Nuts group. Because it's high in protein
Nuts are in the meat category because of their fats and proteins. They can be mistaken in the fats/oils group or the Fruit group. nut is anexcellent protective food because it protects us against coronary heart disease. an epidemiological fruit. remember, nut is a fruit, fruits and vegetables are protective foods. The food groups are carbohydrates, fats, protein, water, vitamins, minerals and fibre Fruits, vegetalbes, grains, dairy and protein foods are the   5 food groups. They pro … vide the nutritional building blocks to  optimal health.
What food is in the meat nuts beans group? Meat, nuts, and beans such as (pinto, red kidney, white beans, possibly Lima beans) are in the protein group. The food groups are carbohydrates, fats, protein, water, vitamins, minerals and fibre Fruits, vegetalbes, grains, dairy and protein foods are the   5 food groups. They pro … vide the nutritional building blocks to  optimal health.
meat and beans because they are a nut and they could possibly be in oil too. What food group do peanuts and walnuts belong to. http://www.chacha.com/question/what-food-group-do-peanuts-and-walnuts-belong-to. Peanuts and walnuts fall in the meat, poultry, fish, dry beans, eggs, and nuts group on the Food Pyramid. They contain protein, healthy oils, and important vitamins and nutrients! ChaCha! 
Answer by Ayersdy. Confidence votes 15.3K. Almonds belong to the first group (meats poultry fish etc). (1) meats, poultry, fish, dry beans and peas, eggs, and nuts; (2) dairy products, such as milk, cheese, and yogurt; (3) grains and wheat products. (4) fruits and vegetables