Each cerebral hemisphere is divided into four lobes; the frontal, parietal, temporal, and the occipital. This lobe deals with with higher level cognitive functions like reasoning and judgment. Sometimes called executive function, it is associated with the pre-frontal cortex. Inferiorly, it is divided from the temporal lobe by the fissure of Sylvius which is also called the lateral fissure
Each cerebral hemisphere is divided into four lobes; the frontal, parietal, temporal, and the occipital. The Frontal Lobe is the most anterior lobe of the brain. Inferiorly, it is divided from the temporal lobe by the fissure of Sylvius which is also called the lateral fissure. This lobe deals with with higher level cognitive functions like reasoning and judgment. Sometimes called executive function, it is associated with the pre-frontal cortex.
The cerebral cortex is the cerebrum 's (brain) outer layer of neural tissue in humans and other mammals. It is divided into two cortices, along the sagittal plane: the left and right cerebral hemispheres divided by the medial longitudinal fissure. 
Now the cerebral cortex is divided into two hemispheres-the left and right hemispheres. For the most part the hemispheres exhibit what we call Contralateral control: which means the left hemisphere controls the right side of out body and the right hemisphere controls the left side. It is set up the same way the motor cortex is (see picture to right) in that the bottom of the cortex is responsible for the top of our body and the top of the cortex responsible for the bottom of our body. Occipital Lobes. Located in the very back of our brain, the occipital lobes are responsible for our eyesight.
Share. The cerebral cortex is the layer of the brain often referred to as gray matter. The cortex (thin layer of tissue) is gray because nerves in this area lack the insulation that makes most other parts of the brain appear to be white. The cortex covers the outer portion (1.5mm to 5mm) of the cerebrum and cerebellum. The portion of the cortex that covers the cerebrum is called the cerebral cortex. The cerebral cortex consists of folded bulges called gyri that create deep furrows or fissures called sulci.
Each cerebral hemisphere is divided into four lobes; the frontal, parietal, temporal, and the occipital. The Frontal Lobe is the most anterior lobe of the brain. Its posterior boundary is the fissure of Rolando, or central sulcus, which separates it from the parietal lobe. 
Most information processing occurs in the cerebral cortex. The cerebral cortex is divided into lobes that each have a specific function. Function: The cerebral cortex is involved in several functions of the body including: 1  Determining Intelligence. 2  Determining Personality. 3  Motor Function. 4  Planning and Organization. 5  Touch Sensation. 
The Cerebrum: The cerebrum or cortex is the largest part of the human brain, associated with higher brain function such as thought and action. The cerebral cortex is divided into four sections, called lobes: the frontal lobe, parietal lobe, occipital lobe, and temporal lobe. 
Brain Lobes and their Functions. The brain is divided into four sections, known as lobes (as shown in the image above). The frontal lobe, occipital lobe, parietal lobe, and temporal lobe have different locations and functions that support the responses and actions of the human body. The occipital lobe, the smallest of the four lobes, is located near the posterior region of the cerebral cortex, near the back of the skull. The occipital lobe is the primary visual processing center of the brain.