If growing Basil in pots then ensure that adequate drainage is allowed from the base of the pot (line with coarse gravel if necessary). If growing outside then ensure the soil is well dug over and weed free before sowing. Before sowing ensure that the compost or soil is moist (water generously the day before sowing). Harvest the top most leaves first. Basil will grow all year round indoors but outdoor plants should be dug up and brought indoors before the first fall frosts if you want to extend the plants growing season into the winter. Once harvested Basil can be frozen for later use. Basil can be used in fresh or dried form
1 If you want to plant the basil in a container, make sure it's large enough to accommodate the number of plants you're growing; they need to be planted 6 inches (15.2 cm) apart, since they grow quite large. Basil does not tolerate frost so don't plant too early. It's best to put basil somewhere where it will get a good deal of sunshine and have well-drained soil. 1  To plant the basil in the garden, dig holes spaced at least 6 inches (15.2 cm) apart. 2  Place the roots in the holes and place soil around the stems.
Position. Basil should be grown in a position that receives a good amount of sunlight-around 6-8 hours a day. Basil can be grown indoors on a sunny windowsill or outdoors in containers or soil. If growing outside try and position the Basil in a sheltered spot that avoids cold winds. Harvest the top most leaves first. Basil will grow all year round indoors but outdoor plants should be dug up and brought indoors before the first fall frosts if you want to extend the plants growing season into the winter. Once harvested Basil can be frozen for later use. Basil can be used in fresh or dried form
1 Ensure your outdoor site gets 6 to 8 hours of full Sun daily; soil should be moist and well-drained. 2  After the last frost date, plant the seeds/seedlings in the ground about ¼-inch deep. 3  The soil should be around 70ºF for best growth. 4  Plant the seeds/seedlings about 10 to 12 inches apart. You can try digging up the plant to grow indoors. Be sure to cut it back to a manageable size and put it in a sunny location to stimulate new growth. You might have greater success starting new plants from seed to grow inside. I also have had stem cuttings of basil root in a glass of water.
The growing basil seeds should germinate within a week. The seedling can be recognized by D-shaped seed leaves that will have the flat sides facing toward each other. Once you see a few more pairs of leaves, you should thin the basil plants to be about 6 to 12 inches apart. How to Plant Basil Seeds. It is easy to learn how to plant basil seeds. Basil should be grown in a place that gets sunshine at least six to eight hours per day. The soil should be well-drained with a pH of 6-7.5.
Undo. fatamorgana2121 (Zone 5/6). I suspect the soil composition, amount of water, and drainage will be more important to how well the herbs grow than the exact depth of the bed. Eibren is right, the raised bed and the soil underneath are merged together so the plants can grow as deep as they need to. 
1 Pat down soil around the plants to eliminate air pockets. 2  If you want to plant the basil in a container, make sure it's large enough to accommodate the number of plants you're growing; they need to be planted 6 inches (15.2 cm) apart, since they grow quite large. Basil does not tolerate frost so don't plant too early. It's best to put basil somewhere where it will get a good deal of sunshine and have well-drained soil. 1  To plant the basil in the garden, dig holes spaced at least 6 inches (15.2 cm) apart. 2  Place the roots in the holes and place soil around the stems.
Herbs that are suitable are medium height, grow in an upright manner, keep a compact shape or creep along the ground. Herbs that have deep roots or tall stems are not appropriate for growing in pots. Growing herbs in pots is a perfect solution to having limited space or not having a yard. Pots do not take much space and you can put them out on a patio or balcony. Pots should be no less than 12 inches in diameter but make sure they are larger than that if you are planting a variety of herbs in one pot. Terra cotta or clay pots are excellent but they need to be watered every day because moisture evaporates from them easily.
1 To get a head start, start the seeds indoors 6 weeks before the last spring frost. 2  Ensure your outdoor site gets 6 to 8 hours of full Sun daily; soil should be moist and well-drained. 3  After the last frost date, plant the seeds/seedlings in the ground about ¼-inch deep. 4  The soil should be around 70ºF for best growth. You can try digging up the plant to grow indoors. Be sure to cut it back to a manageable size and put it in a sunny location to stimulate new growth. You might have greater success starting new plants from seed to grow inside. I also have had stem cuttings of basil root in a glass of water.