The largest ethnic group are Dhivehis, native to the historic region of the Maldive Islands comprising today's Republic of Maldives and the island of Minicoy in Union territory of Lakshadweep, India. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. This article is about the demographic features of the population of the Maldives, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Maldives Religions. Talking about the Maldives religions, people out here have a deep faith in Islam and all the people are Sunni Muslims. Therefore, the major religion of Maldives is Islam. People of Maldives are very religious and offer prayers five times a day in the mosque. Maldivians have a strong belief in afterlife and they are of the opinion that it is decided on the basis of deeds, whether the person will go to hell or heaven.
Maldives has one of the highest net emigration (people leaving the country) rates in the world, being surpassed by only seven nations (Nauru, Northern Mariana Islands, Tonga, Syria, Micronesia, Jordan, and American Samoa). Largest city in Maldives. Male (malé PRONOUNCED-mah) lay is the capital and largest city In. maldives Its capital and largest city is Male. Basic History of Maldives. The countries name is said to be derived from the Sanskrit words “mala” and “dvipa”, which mean “garland” and “island” respectively, or from “Maala Divaina” in Sinhala language – “Necklace Islands”.
Maldives Table of Contents. The contemporary homogeneous mixture of Sinhalese, Dravidian, Arab, Australasian, and African ethnicity in Maldives results from historical changes in regional hegemony over marine trade routes. The language Maldivian Dhivehi belongs to the Indo-European language family. Derived from Elu, an archaic form of Sinhalese (the language of Sri Lanka), it has numerous loanwords from Arabic, from Hindi--which is used in trade with Indian merchants- -and from Tamil.
Located in the Indian Ocean, about 430 miles south-west of Sri Lanka and 250 miles south-west of India, the Maldives consists of 1,192 coral islands which are grouped in a double chain of 26 atolls. With a total area of 115 square miles, Maldives is the smallest country in Asia and the world’s 209th largest state. Its capital and largest city is Male. Basic History of Maldives. The countries name is said to be derived from the Sanskrit words “mala” and “dvipa”, which mean “garland” and “island” respectively, or from “Maala Divaina” in Sinhala language – “Necklace Islands”.
Male (malé PRONOUNCED-mah) lay is the capital and largest city In. Maldives the 2006 census revealed that the’city s population 103,693 103693, people but’it s believed the number has grown by at least 30 percent by. 2013 male has an area of only.2 2 square miles and a density of at 46,000 46000 people per square. mile Its capital and largest city is Male. Basic History of Maldives. The countries name is said to be derived from the Sanskrit words “mala” and “dvipa”, which mean “garland” and “island” respectively, or from “Maala Divaina” in Sinhala language – “Necklace Islands”.
Maldives Population. Maldives Population is concentrated on the comparatively larger islands of the archipelago in the Indian Ocean. The approximate population of Maldives is 369,031. Of the 1,190 islands forming Maldives only 200 are inhabited and 87 are used as tourist resorts. Maldives population growth rate is around 2.732%. The Birth Rate in Maldives is estimated at 34.2 births per 1,000 population while the Death Rate is 6.22 deaths per 1,000 population. The average Median Age of Maldives population is about 18.1 years. The Sex Ratio stands at 1.046 male(s) per female.
The Maldives had one of the highest birth rates in the world. The result is that many islands have become overpopulated and are completely covered by homesteads. Hence the country is becoming less self-sufficient by the day. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. This article is about the demographic features of the population of the Maldives, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Destination Maldives, a virtual travel guide to the archipelago in the Indian Ocean. The former sultanate Maldives is an archipelago in the Indian Ocean south west from India. The country consists of 1190 coral islands grouped into about 26 atolls spread over 90,000 square kilometers (only 1% land). About 200 islands are inhabited, of which about 90 islands have tourist resorts. Read on to get more information about the Republic of Maldives in its diversity: geography, economy, science, people, culture, environment, government and history.