The taste of this recipe is just like any restaurant style paneer tikka masala recipe. If you just add plain paneer to this gravy then it’s also known as paneer makhani or paneer makhanwala or paneer butter masala. Paneer Tikka Masala Recipe is a popular recipe made from paneer (cottage cheese) and hails from North India. The paneer is grilled or baked or placed in tandoor first then added to the creamy tomato gravy. So the tastes of this recipe is just fabulous your house would be full of aroma and flavor once you make it
I am sure you will enjoy restaurant style taste with this yummy Paneer Masala. Watch detail recipe at http://www.madhurasrecipe.com/veg/Pan... Subscribe to our YouTube channel and leave your thoughts in the comments below. Join us on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/pages/madhur... 
My favorite dish made with paneer cheese is palaak paneer. Palaak paneer is curried spinach and paneer cheese. It is delicious with fresh baked lamb stuffed with ground lamb. Just off the ASU campus in Tempe is a great Indian restaurant that serves both of these dishes. To make paneer cheese, one gallon (four liters) of milk is mixed with around a tablespoon of acid like vinegar, lime or lemon juice, which will stimulate a reaction that causes the milk to curdle.
Report Abuse. Paneer is pretty bland on it's own, it's sort of a spongy cottage cheese. Marinate it in some indian curry spices, with some other spices, then make kabobs and grill them. That's how some of my Indian friends cooked it over the summer, and it was really tasty. Katie · 6 years ago.
Sometimes it is fried to extend shelf life. Cooks will also sometimes fry paneer until it is slightly brown and then put the fried cubes of paneer in hot water for a few minutes. This makes paneer very soft. If you do cook paneer, it will not melt, like most other cheese varieties, because it's an acid-set cheese. share | improve this answer.
NDTV Food, Modified: Tweet. Indulge in the divine taste of paneer-the ever so versatile, humble and an all-time favorite ingredient we all grew up with. Paneer is a type of fresh cheese common in South Asian cuisine. In eastern parts of the Indian Subcontinent, it is generally called chhena. With it's delicate milky flavour, paneer can be used in curries or served grilled as a side. In Bengal fresh paneer or chhena is used to make some of the much-loved desserts like rasgulla, rasmalai, chenna murki and many more.Quick Tip: In the market you will find soft as well as hard cottage cheese.
Paneer Butter Masala is one of the most popular vegetarian curries in Indian cuisine. Paneer (Indian cottage cheese cubes) is dunked in a rich and creamy tomato gravy and served along with roti (Indian breads) or Flavored rice. It is one of the commonly found item in a restaurant menu. I am presenting a restaurant style Paneer Butter Masala with step by step instructions. 
Paneer (. [pəniːr]) is a fresh cheese common in Indian cuisine. It is an unaged, acid-set, non-melting farmer cheese or curd cheese made by curdling heated milk with lemon juice, vinegar, or any other food acids. Its crumbly and moist form is called chhena in eastern India and in Bangladesh. 
Report Abuse. I think paneer tastes somewhat like mozzarella cheese. It usually tastes on the bland side, but is delicious in curries or marinated in spices!!!!! Yummmy!!!!!! You can add crushed coriander, cumin, cardamom seeds, or anise to the milk when you put it on to boil. Paneer is pretty bland on it's own, it's sort of a spongy cottage cheese. Marinate it in some indian curry spices, with some other spices, then make kabobs and grill them. That's how some of my Indian friends cooked it over the summer, and it was really tasty. Katie · 6 years ago.