I have their full name and area of address but that's it. show more In England if you have someone's surname and area of address, you can find their phone number. Report Abuse. Yes, the guy above gave you 2 links of finding the telephone numbers, one of them is the yellow pages online in France. But if people put their phone number in LISTE ROUGE (same as your ex-directory in Britain), you still won't find the tele
Here is a people search in France that could be good to try, called peekyou. But if you have not seen the person for over ten or maybe even twenty years, then the pictures that will come up on the above people search France will not help much, you won't know if it is the right person. Try to find out the person's middle name, that is often very helpful to have-it will make things easier.
“If you want a comfortable life in France, you don’t necessarily need French friends if you don’t want them. Paris is the kind of place, people come and do their own thing. “I do have French friends as well and if you want to understand the country it is really important to mix with French people or work with them. 
To look for someone, provide with as much details as you have about the person. In general, the more details you can provide, the more specific the search will be. Ex. To find out a dentist in Paris, and if you have no other details, fill up the city and profession and click 'Find my person'. 
Instructions. Visit www.pagesjaunes.fr, the Pages Blanches, which is the French version of the white pages. Enter the last name of the person you're searching for in the Nom field. You can enter a first name in Prenom.. Enter address information, if known, in the Ou section. Otherwise, leave it blank to search the entire country. Click Trouver to search for the name. The search results will display name, address and phone number for all listings that match your search criteria. 
You can try the French white pages (in English): http://www.pagesjaunes.fr/pb.cgi?lang=en Little hint: instead of typing Paris in the City field, write IDF (or Ile de France) in the Dept district or region field. This will search for the person in Paris and its suburbs. You can also try posting an MC (missed connection) on Paris Craigslist (http://paris.craigslist.org/cgi-bin/pers... 
People Search France-some of you have relatives living in France that seem hard to find, and some of you have old friends who have moved to Paris or some other part of France. But if you have not seen the person for over ten or maybe even twenty years, then the pictures that will come up on the above people search France will not help much, you won't know if it is the right person. Try to find out the person's middle name, that is often very helpful to have-it will make things easier.
France Pages Blanches. Lookup people in France Phone Book (pagesjaunes.fr). Search by last name, first name.Enter -0- and local number. Select tab-A qui est ce Numero-for reverse phone search.Enter city or post code for-Localite. France Pages Blanches is in French only. 118 218 Reverse Phone. Select the tab-Sur l'annuaire inverse-for Free reverse phone search in France.
Here a website for people search in France could of course be helpful. If you have lost relatives in Paris, Avignon, Bordeaux, Lyon, Nice or some other French city or little town and if that family member or relative was actually born there, you can send an email or letter to the town Hall in their city of birth. But if you have not seen the person for over ten or maybe even twenty years, then the pictures that will come up on the above people search France will not help much, you won't know if it is the right person. Try to find out the person's middle name, that is often very helpful to have-it will make things easier.
When searching and looking to find people in France who are missing or that you have lost touch with, family, friends, or a debtor who owes money, Trace Anyone France offer a comprehensive and successful people finding service for the tracing of missing people within France, Europe and Internationally. People search France. 14 years experience searching & finding people in France for private and corporate clients in the United Kingdom and Worldwide. International Tracing Agents and Investigations.