Prepare the Paperclip. How to Pick a Lock with a Paperclip. Take a larger, thicker paperclip and straighten out the outer ring of the clip. This should give you a long, straight piece of metal to manipulate the inner workings of a keyhole with. Paperclips as Lock Picking Tools. In some cases, if you don’t have a torque wrench or tension wrench, you can use a second paperclip to pick a lock. With the second paperclip, straighten it out, then bend the end in a 90-degree angle, which should make the l-shape. If that doesn’t work, try a small screwdriver
How to Pick a Lock with a Paperclip. Most locks you’ll encounter are pin-and-tumbler locks, which have a cylinder that rotates around, but is held in place by several pins. As you first use the torque wrench, you want to test to see which way the lock works. Paperclips as Lock Picking Tools. In some cases, if you don’t have a torque wrench or tension wrench, you can use a second paperclip to pick a lock. With the second paperclip, straighten it out, then bend the end in a 90-degree angle, which should make the l-shape. If that doesn’t work, try a small screwdriver
Turn the lock to the side as if you were unlocking the door with a key. When the lock won't turn any more, keep holding the tension wrench and apply as much pressure as you comfortably can. Insert the flattened end of the paperclip above the tension wrench. Push it in until you meet resistance. Instructions. Bend one end of a paperclip until it is straight. Hammer the tip of the end you just unbent so that it is as flat as possible. Place the paperclip onto a hard surface, such as a driveway, so you don't dent the surface with the hammer. Insert the tension wrench into the opening of the lock, at the bottom.
2. Unfold first paperclip into the lock pick. In order to do this, unfold the large edge of your paperclip twice until a straight portion juts out. You will be inserting the straight part into the lock to use as a pick. Insert tension wrench into bottom of keyhole. The bottom of the keyhole is called the shear line. You want to apply pressure with the tension wrench here, in a rotational manner (which way the lock turns).
Take a hammer and flatten the end of the paperclip as flat as you can get it, then grab your makeshift lock-picking tools and head to the door. eHow explains what to do next: Insert the flattened end of the paperclip above the tension wrench. Push it in until you meet resistance. Take the paperclip out and push it back in again. When you meet the resistance of the next pin, push up on it as well until it moves and the tension wrench turns. Repeat this procedure with the rest of the pins until the lock opens. Tilt the card so the side that's closest to you is almost or is touching the doorknob.
Part 2 of 2: Picking Your Lock. 1. Insert tension wrench into bottom of keyhole. The bottom of the keyhole is called the shear line. You want to apply pressure with the tension wrench here, in a rotational manner (which way the lock turns).
Anyone can unlock a door lock with a paper clip.Apply very light torque to the tension wrench (you can use a pen clip as a tension wrench}, and then scrub back and forth over the pins, slightly push the pins upwards or downwards while scrubbing. In fact, it s quite difficult to employ single-pin picking with a paper clip, so raking is easier. THIS VIDEO IS ONLY FOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSE NEVER PICK LOCKS THAT YOU DO NOT OWN OR WITHOUT PERMISSION..
If the pins do not set after several strokes, release the tension wrench and do it again. In fact, it s quite difficult to employ single-pin picking with a paper clip, so raking is easier. THIS VIDEO IS ONLY FOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSE NEVER PICK LOCKS THAT YOU DO NOT OWN OR WITHOUT PERMISSION..
If you're locked on the other side, look for a tiny hole on the doorknob. Push an eyeglasses screwdriver, a paper clip hammered flat, or a very small butter knife into this hole. Push it straight through as far as you can, and turn or twist it until it catches a groove and the lock clicks open. Tips. 1  If you can pick your front door lock, burglars can too. 2  Use the deadbolt if present, or replace your locks with more secure examples. 3  If you hear or feel the lock open, but the door won't open, there could be a deadbolt or handle lock on the other side of the door.