Located on Kawana Island, Green Zebra is close to Caloundra, Mooloolaba, Maroochydore and the surrounding Sunshine Coast suburbs. The restaurant has a private function room ideal for corporate meetings or small gatherings. The main restaurant and bar can accommodate small groups and large parties. 
The Sunshine Coast is located approximately 100 kilometres north of Brisbane. From the Sunshine Coast you can also catch a car ferry from the village of Tewantin and explore the Noosa North Shore, the Great Sandy National Park and World Heritage-listed Fraser Island. The Sunshine Coast is perfect for an action-packed holiday or quiet escape at any time of year. The superb weather of the Sunshine Coast, a little over an hour from Brisbane,
See it all when you embark upon a coastal circle tour of Vancouver Island and the Sunshine Coast of British Columbia. The Sunshine Coast lives up to its name. With a total average of between 1,400 and 2,400 hours of sunshine per annum – that’s an average of 4 to 6 hours per day, depending on where the measurements are taken. The Sunshine Coast is split into two portions on either side of Jervis Inlet. Circle Tours are a specialty of the Island, offering 15% savings on selected travel with BC Ferries’ Sunshine Coast CirclePac. The CirclePac gives you a chance to discover large stretches of sheltered BC coastline, from its forested inlets to its many peaks.
Sunshine Coast. The Sunshine Coast is British Columbia's best kept secret, stretching along 180km/112mi of land from Gibsons to Lund with many quaint, tiny coastal communities in between. It's a pacific paradise of quirky waterfront shops, friendly people and an easygoing lifestyle. Highlight trips include kayaking around Keats Island and the Pasley Group. The Sunshine Coast also offers hundreds of kilometres of mouantain bike trails for riders of all abilities. Experience everything from cross-country and intense downhills, to freeride routes with ladder bridges and skinnies.
Gibsons is a 40 minute ferry ride out of Horseshoe Bay, Vancouver BC, and is approximately 4 hours from Seattle Washington. For more details about how to get to the Sunshine Coast, visit the maps section of Bigpacific.com. The Sunshine Coast is an 86km coastline stretching from Howe Sound to Desolation Sound, or Langdale to Lund, in the southwest corner of British Columbia. It is accessed by BC Ferries out of Horseshoe Bay for vehicles, cyclists and foot passengers, and by floatplane from Vancouver and Vancouver Island
By the beach. Choose your patch of sand from over 100 kilometres of pristine coastline – stretching from Caloundra in the south to Noosa and the rainbow sands of the Cooloola coast in the north – and soak up the warm sunshine and laid-back atmosphere. 1  Paddle into the home of longboarding with a surf lesson at Noosa’s Main Beach. Noosa National Park. On the Sunshine Coast, the only thing more refreshing than the water is the lifestyle. With its endless beaches, lush rainforests and easy smiles, it’s a place where you will feel like a local from the moment you arrive.
Enjoy some bonding time with your favorite four legged friend on the Sunshine Coast, BC Continue reading... The Sunshine Coast is British Columbia's best kept secret, stretching along 180km of land from Langdale to Lund with many quaint, tiny coastal communities in between. Family fun, romantic escapes, golf, adventure, oceanside adventure-The Sunshine Coast has a vacation package for you. SEE ALL
Add to your dream trip. From Brisbane, visit Moreton Island, Surfers Paradise, and Noosa on the Sunshine Coast. Head inland for Outback Queensland or north for World Heritage-listed Fraser Island, Bundaberg's natural attractions, and Mackay, a gateway to the idyllic Whitsundays. The Sunshine Coast is perfect for an action-packed holiday or quiet escape at any time of year. The superb weather of the Sunshine Coast, a little over an hour from Brisbane,
Noosa). The Sunshine Coast is a great departure point for a Fraser Island Tour with awesome beaches. more. ​We have a selection of Fraser Island Tours from the Sunshine Coast ranging from economical tours to smaller groups with more catering included. You can go on a 1 Day Tour, 2 Day Tour or 3 Day Tour. The Sunshine Coast is a bustling coastal region of South-East Queensland that stretches for about 100km along the coast. 