Betta Fish. Betta fish is one of several genera in the Family Osphronemidae. The most famous Betta is the Siamese Fighting fish (Betta splendens). The word Betta comes from a local Siamese name for Siamese Fighting fish, “Ikan Bettah”. The contemporary Thai name for this fish is Pla-kad.
All the Betta species are small fishes, but they vary considerably in size, ranging from under 2.5 cm (1 in) total length in B. chanoides to 12.5 cm (5 in) in the Akar betta (B. akarensis). Bettas are anabantoids, which means they can breathe atmospheric air using a unique organ called the labyrinth. The name Betta (or betta) is pronounced /ˈbɛtə/ ; the first part is the same as the English word bet. By confusion with the name of the Greek letter beta, the name is often pronounced /ˈbeɪtə/ in American English, and may be misspelled with one 't'.
Betta /ˈbɛtə/ is a large genus of small, often colorful, freshwater ray-finned fishes in the gourami family (Osphronemidae). By far the best known Betta species, however, is B. splendens, the Siamese fighting fish. The name Betta (or betta) is pronounced /ˈbɛtə/ ; the first part is the same as the English word bet. By confusion with the name of the Greek letter beta, the name is often pronounced /ˈbeɪtə/ in American English, and may be misspelled with one 't'.
There are many different species of bettas. The one you see in the pet store is a Betta Splendens. Betta is the scienticic name for the genus of the Siamese fighting fish. Kingdom: Animalia. The genus is the first part of a scientific name. Note that the genus is always capitalised. An example: Lemur catta is the scientific name of the Ringtailed lemur and Lemur … is the genus. Another example: Sphyrna zygaena is the scientific name of one species of Hammerhead shark and Sphyrna
For other uses, see Siamese fighting fish (disambiguation) . The Siamese fighting fish (Betta splendens), also sometimes colloquially known as the Betta, is a species in the Gourami family which is popular as an aquarium fish. They are called pla-kad (biting fish) in Thai or trey krem in Khmer. 
There are many different species of bettas. The one you see in the pet store is a Betta Splendens. Betta is the scienticic name for the genus of the Siamese fighting fish Kin … gdom: Animalia Phylum: Chordata Class: Actinopterygii Order: Perciformes Family: Osphronemidae Genus: Betta. 1 person found this useful.
There are many different types of betta fish. Betta fish may sometimes be referred to by their scientific name which is the Betta Splendens. They are also called as siamese fighting fish. As a result of breeding by experts, they have taken an extensive range of colors, fin types and patterns. There exist many different betta fish names depending on the color, pattern and fin types. It is hard to name all betta fish types here as it makes a very long list.
While many Betta species are common and B. splendens is ubiquitous in the aquarium trade, other bettas are threatened. The IUCN Red List classifies several Betta species as Vulnerable. In addition, B. livida is Endangered, and B. miniopinna, B. persephone, and B. spilotogena are Critically Endangered. The name Betta (or betta) is pronounced /ˈbɛtə/ ; the first part is the same as the English word bet. By confusion with the name of the Greek letter beta, the name is often pronounced /ˈbeɪtə/ in American English, and may be misspelled with one 't'.