Leukemia is a form of cancer that originates in the tissues that make blood (mainly the soft bone marrow located inside the bone) and manifests in the blood cells created by the affected tissue. The complete blood count is the most common blood test ordered when dealing with a case of leukemia. The primary aim of the test is to be able to measure the concentration of white blood cells, platelets and red blood cells in the blood.
A complete blood count (CBC) is a common test that gives a general picture of your health. A CBC measures the number of red cells, white cells (neutrophils, eosinophils, basophils, monocytes and lymphocytes) and platelets and levels of hemoglobin and hematocrit in your blood. Flow cytometry analyzes your blood or bone marrow cells to determine whether a high white cell count is the result of blood cancer. The test identifies cells as they flow through an instrument called a flow cytometer.
Leukemia. Leukemia is a type of cancer found in your blood and bone marrow and is caused by the rapid production of abnormal white blood cells. These abnormal white blood cells are not able to fight infection and impair the ability of the bone marrow to produce red blood cells and platelets. In myelogenous leukemia, abnormal cell growth occurs in the marrow cells that mature into red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. There are four broad classifications of leukemia: 1  Acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL). 2  Acute myelogenous leukemia (AML).
a a a. Leukemia is a form of cancer that affects blood-forming tissue, primarily the lymphatic system and bone marrow. The condition is similar to other types of cancer and occurs when white blood cells replicate uncontrollably. Leukemia is actually a blanket term that can refer to a spectrum of related cancers. White blood cells help the body by fighting infection, red blood cells allow oxygen to be transported throughout the body, and platelets help form blood clots that can neutralize bleeding. Leukemia cells prevent these normal cells from carrying out their regular function.
Leukemia is also classified as lymphocytic or myelogenous. Lymphocytic leukemia refers to abnormal cell growth in the marrow cells that become lymphocytes, a type of white blood cell that plays a role in the immune system. In myelogenous leukemia, abnormal cell growth occurs in the marrow cells that mature into red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. There are four broad classifications of leukemia: 1  Acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL). 2  Acute myelogenous leukemia (AML).
Complete Blood Count Tests. A complete blood count (CBC) is a common blood test that is used to help diagnose some blood cancers, such as leukemia and lymphoma, tell if a cancer has spread to the bone marrow, and help determine how your body is tolerating cancer treatments. 
Most signs and symptoms of AML are caused by the replacement of normal blood cells with leukemic cells. A lack of normal white blood cell production makes the patient susceptible to infections; while the leukemic cells themselves are derived from white blood cell precursors, they have no infection-fighting capacity. Marrow or blood is examined under light microscopy, as well as flow cytometry, to diagnose the presence of leukemia, to differentiate AML from other types of leukemia (e.g. acute lymphoblastic leukemia-ALL), and to classify the subtype of disease.
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia, also known as acute lymphocytic leukemia or acute lymphoid leukemia (ALL), is an acute form of leukemia, or cancer of the white blood cells, characterized by the overproduction and accumulation of cancerous, immature white blood cells, known as lymphoblasts. 
In immunohistochemistry tests, cells from the blood or bone marrow samples are also treated with special antibodies. But instead of using a laser and computer, the sample is treated so that certain types of cells change color when seen under a microscope. A lumbar puncture is not often used to test for AML, unless the patient is having symptoms that could be caused by leukemia cells spreading into the brain and spinal cord. For this test, the patient may lie on his side or sit up. The doctor first numbs an area of skin on the lower part of the back over the spine.