Students may turn in the certificate to receive 5 bonus points on the test grade.* Module Quizzes will be averaged for a 100 point MAJOR grade. A few notes: o Please bring headphones each day of Unit 4. Please do not plan to share headphones with a partner for this experience. Go to the EverFi Website and find our class: www.everfi.net b. Class Login Info: o st1 block A Day class code: 7ef05b62 o 3 rd block B Day class code: b706dcf8 c. Write down your user name and password so you don’t lose it!
You must complete this form before you retake the test. This is proof that you have prepared for the retake. The retake will probably have different but similar questions than from the first test. You have 5 days from the date that you received back the test to retake it. If you don’t retake it, you will keep your original score. The highest grade that you will receive on a make up is 70%. Only students who scored 69% or below may retake the test. 
EverFi feels strongly that in order for digital learning and education technology to be successful in helping the education space to innovate, we must do more than pass on a login. Instead, EverFi must be a true partner in that school and teacher’s journey with technology and critical skills. EverFi employs one of the largest teams of former teachers in the education technology industry serving schools across North America. - Evaluation: Through the design and development phase as well as once a course is in market, we utilize listening labs, curriculum summits, focus groups and semester end surveys to gather feedback on the course. We also conduct prototype and usability testing throughout the development phase.
A. It should take between 1 1/2 and 2 hours to complete Part 1 of the course. It should take about 45 minutes to 1 hour to complete Part 2. A. Your answers are strictly confidential. Any responses you provide to survey or Exam questions will be grouped together with other students' answers, and no one will ever connect you with your responses. The answers you submit to our free-response or journaling questions are also confidential
Once you’ve finished this, you will have access to the various modules of information. 2. Complete the EverFi modules by the dates listed below. a. We will have several days in the computer lab to work on this in class, but you can also work on this at home with your login. Go to the EverFi Website and find our class: www.everfi.net b. Class Login Info: o st1 block A Day class code: 7ef05b62 o 3 rd block B Day class code: b706dcf8 c. Write down your user name and password so you don’t lose it!
We at EverFi care tremendously about how information is used and shared. We take your privacy seriously. As an education organization, we do utilize both formative assessments and polling in the digital learning platform. Teachers may view individual student assessment scores to check for knowledge gain. - Evaluation: Through the design and development phase as well as once a course is in market, we utilize listening labs, curriculum summits, focus groups and semester end surveys to gather feedback on the course. We also conduct prototype and usability testing throughout the development phase.
Students will be allowed to retake each quiz, but only the first quiz score will count. Each module quiz is worth a 100 point minor grade. Everfi Test Grade-Students will receive a test grade at the end of the Everfi Curriculum by averaging all of the module quiz grades together. There are 9 quiz grades total. Go to the EverFi Website and find our class: www.everfi.net b. Class Login Info: o st1 block A Day class code: 7ef05b62 o 3 rd block B Day class code: b706dcf8 c. Write down your user name and password so you don’t lose it!