Feeding Age 0-4 Weeks Mom: The nursing mother dog should be offered plenty of food at all times – nursing puppies is incredibly hard work and her calorie intake needs to be much higher than a non-lactating dog. Most dog food prints recommended dosing for lactating mother dogs on the label. When the mother reenters the box, there should be some fussing for only a few minutes before everyone has settled down to serious nursing. Puppies will sleep 90% of the time and eat the other 10%. Age 4-5 Weeks Puppies usually can drink and eat from a saucer by 4 weeks. Weaning should be done gradually.
A puppy's mother provides vital nutrition, warmth, personal care and attention. Weaning a puppy from its mother is a gradual process that should start at about 4 weeks of age and finish between 7 to 8 weeks of age. Therefore, it's not recommended to take a dog away from its mother before 6 weeks of age. A puppy's vision and hearing only begins to function at about 3 or 4 weeks of age. Prior to this and until at least about 8 weeks, the mother dog keeps the puppies warm and safe.
Report Abuse. Earlier than 8 weeks is an age where the puppy is mentally very vulnerable and needs to learn important lessons from mother and siblings. Leaving at 5 weeks old is ridiculous and while some pups might do okay if they're taken away from their mother at 6 weeks old, many do not and later become problem dogs. Where I come from, it's illegal to take puppies away from their mother before 8 weeks. 8-12 weeks is perfect and corresponds with the age, where in the wild, the puppies' father would start taking over much of the raising of the puppies, so it's a natural age for the puppies to orient themselves toward someone else than their mother.
5-6 weeks is far too early. The puppies are JUST being weaned onto puppy food, and they haven't had the time to learn crucial social and behavioral skills from their mom and litter mates. A responsible breeder wouldn't allow puppies to leave before 8 weeks of age. 8-12 weeks is perfect and corresponds with the age, where in the wild, the puppies' father would start taking over much of the raising of the puppies, so it's a natural age for the puppies to orient themselves toward someone else than their mother.
The mother's milk provides adequate sustenance until about 4 weeks of age, when the mother and litter's human guardians can begin the transition to solid food. A puppy's vision and hearing only begins to function at about 3 or 4 weeks of age. Prior to this and until at least about 8 weeks, the mother dog keeps the puppies warm and safe.
The best age to take the puppy home is 7 weeks see my Psychological Changes in a Puppies Growth. NEVER ever accept a puppy less than 7 weeks of age, it is vitally important they are with their mother and siblings up to this age. Puppies over twelve weeks should be avoided if possible. 
The mother provides vital nutrition, necessary warmth and personal care. Taking a puppy away from its mother should be done gradually, if possible. It should start when the pup is about 4 weeks old, and finish when the pooch is between 7 to 8 weeks of age. Newborns are utterly dependent on their mother’s milk during the first 4 weeks of their lives
Photos of newborn pups have a way of making you want a puppy. Scrupulous breeders will know the importance of keeping the puppies with the mother for at least eight weeks, and should be firm about this with you, no matter how keen you are to take your puppy home. Getting Mobile. Now that the puppy can see and move around a bit, he begins to recognize his siblings, his mom and the people around him. In the space of one week -- between weeks 3 and 4 -- the puppy goes through rapid sensory development and this is the starting point for him learning how to be a dog.
By the time they are completely weaned from the mother, normally at about six to eight weeks of age, they should be receiving about four meals a day. By the age of three months, you can increase the quantity of food per meal and reduce the frequency to three meals a day. Once the puppies are eating solid food (usually about six weeks of age), they may be placed in their new home. However, it is much better for their social development if the puppies remain with their mother and littermates for the first eight to ten weeks.