A geologic hazard is one of several types of adverse geologic conditions capable of causing damage or loss of property and life. These hazards consist of sudden phenomena and slow phenomena: Sudden phenomena include: 1  avalanches (snow, rock, or air & snow) and its runout. 2  earthquakes and earthquake-triggered phenomena such as tsunamis. 3  forest fires (espec. in Mediterranean areas) leading to deforestation. 1 Geologic hazards may be avoided by relocation. 2  The stability of sloping earth can be improved by the construction of retaining walls, which may use techniques such as slurry walls, shear pins, tiebacks, soil nails or soil anchors. 3  Larger projects may use gabions and other forms of earth buttress.
Geologic Hazards are naturally occurring (or man-made) geologic conditions capable of causing damage or loss of property and/or life. Geologic Hazards Mitigation is the application of geologic engineering principles to minimize or prevent the effects of naturally occurring geologic hazards. Geologic hazards phenomena can occur suddenly, or slowly. Sudden phenomena include: 1  Earthquakes-Liquefaction (soils), Tsunamis. 
A geologic hazards assessment is a summary of the potential geologic hazards present at a site that may affect your project. GHAs are generally conducted by the planning staff geologist; however GHAs can be done by a consultant and submitted for review. A GHA may be required for any construction considered development per the geologic hazards ordinance which is located: 1  Within any hazardous areas such as fault zone, landslide area, floodplains, floodways and coastal high hazard areas.
geologic hazard. Geologic hazard means a geologic condition that is a potential danger to life and property which includes but is not limited to earthquake, landslide, flooding, erosion, expansive soil, fault displacement, volcanic eruption and subsidence. 1. Look beforeyou eat. Portland-area restaurant health scores. eaternet.io.
Our goal is to reduce the impact of geologic hazards on the lives and property of our citizens. Click this link to meet the dedicated people of the Colorado Geological Survey who devote their careers to this critical task. When humans move into this dynamic environment, these natural processes can become problematic as geologic hazards. For example, naturally occurring, inactive landslides may be triggered into renewed activity by the construction of roads or buildings that disrupt the stability of the slope.
Geologic hazards are typically evaluated by engineering geologists who are educated and trained in interpretation of landforms and earth process, earth-structure interaction, and in geologic hazard mitigation. 1 Geologic hazards may be avoided by relocation. 2  The stability of sloping earth can be improved by the construction of retaining walls, which may use techniques such as slurry walls, shear pins, tiebacks, soil nails or soil anchors. 3  Larger projects may use gabions and other forms of earth buttress.
Other geologic hazards, like earthquakes, rockfall, mudslides, and avalanches are naturally occurring; but can wreak havoc on buildings, roads, and other engineered structures. The Colorado Geological Survey is actively involved in geologic hazards research throughout the state. When humans move into this dynamic environment, these natural processes can become problematic as geologic hazards. For example, naturally occurring, inactive landslides may be triggered into renewed activity by the construction of roads or buildings that disrupt the stability of the slope.
Geologic hazards are responsible for great loss of life and destruction of property. In the twentieth century more than a million people worldwide have been killed by earthquakes alone, and the value of the property destroyed by earthquakes, volcanoes, and tsunamis amounts to scores of billions of dollars. The earlier geologic hazard mitigation is incorporated into the development planning process, the more effective it is. Figure 11 -1 summarizes the major issues involved and indicates the most appropriate phase in the process for their consideration in a development planning study.
Geologic Hazards. Colorado’s great diversity of rocks, geologic structures, soil types, topography, and climatic conditions combine to create vigorous and diverse geologic processes. When humans move into this dynamic environment, these natural processes can become problematic as geologic hazards. For example, naturally occurring, inactive landslides may be triggered into renewed activity by the construction of roads or buildings that disrupt the stability of the slope.