The Cell Nucleus: The cell nucleus is a membrane bound structure that contains the cell's hereditary information and controls the cell's growth and reproduction. It is the command center of a eukaryotic cell and is commonly the most prominent organelle in a cell. Like the cell membrane, the nuclear envelope consists of phospholipids that form a lipid bilayer. The envelope helps to maintain the shape of the nucleus and assists in regulating the flow of molecules into and out of the nucleus through nuclear pores. Chromosomes are located within the nucleus.
In other fields, such as: In Physics, a nucleus refers to the positively-charged center of an atom that usually contains the protons and neutrons. In Chemistry, a nucleus is a fundamental arrangement of atoms that occur in compounds through substitution of atoms without a change in structure. Supplement. In biology, the major functions of nucleus are to maintain the integrity of DNA and to control cellular activities such as metabolism, growth, and reproduction by regulating gene expression. It has three main components: the nucleolus, the chromatin and the nuclear envelope.
By Regina Bailey. Definition: The nucleus is a membrane bound structure that contains the cell's hereditary information and controls the cell's growth and reproduction. It is commonly the most prominent organelle in the cell. The nucleus is surrounded by a structure called the nuclear envelope. This membrane separates the contents of the nucleus from the cytoplasm. The cell's chromosomes are also housed within the nucleus.
Noun. 1. cell nucleus-a part of the cell containing DNA and RNA and responsible for growth and reproduction. karyon, nucleus. cell - (biology) the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms; they may exist as independent units of life (as in monads) or may form colonies or tissues as in higher plants and animals. 
The cell nucleus is bound by a double membrane called the nuclear envelope. This membrane separates the contents of the nucleus from the cytoplasm. Like the cell membrane, the nuclear envelope consists of phospholipids that form a lipid bilayer. The envelope helps to maintain the shape of the nucleus and assists in regulating the flow of molecules into and out of the nucleus through nuclear pores. Chromosomes are located within the nucleus.
Medical Definition of NUCLEUS. 1. : a cellular organelle of eukaryotes that is essential to cell functions (as reproduction and protein synthesis), is composed of nuclear sap and a nucleoprotein-rich network from which chromosomes and nucleoli arise, and is enclosed in a definite membrane. 2.
Nuclear envelope. Definition. noun. The two layered membrane that encases the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell, which separates the nucleus from other cell organelles. 
The nucleus is perhaps the most important structure inside animal and plant cells. It is the main control center for the cell and acts kind of like the cell's brain. Only eukaryotic cells have a nucleus. In fact, the definition of a eukaryotic cell is that it contains a nucleus while a prokaryotic cell is defined as not having a nucleus. 
Nucleus. Definition. noun, plural: nuclei. (general) The core or the central part around which other parts are grouped or gathered. (biology) The large, membrane-bounded organelle that contains the genetic material, in the form of multiple linear DNA molecules organized into structures called chromosomes. Supplement. In biology, the major functions of nucleus are to maintain the integrity of DNA and to control cellular activities such as metabolism, growth, and reproduction by regulating gene expression. It has three main components: the nucleolus, the chromatin and the nuclear envelope.