1 Fuel: Drivers can deduct the cost of fuel they pay for out-of-pocket and which is not reimbursed as long as that cost exceeds $100.00. 2  Personal Necessities: Personal items a driver requires to work on the road are deductible. These truck drivers can deduct the cost of insurance premium payments, leasing fees for the truck and interest payments made on the loan used for the truck's purchase. Owner-operators can also deduct the depreciation amount the truck sustained over the year.
Truck Driver Tax Deductions. Truck drivers can claim a variety of tax deductions while on the road. Mileage, daily meal allowances, truck repair (maintenance), overnight hotel expenses, and union dues are some of the tax deductions available. However, local truck drivers typically cannot deduct travel expenses. For more information regarding the standard meal allowance, please refer to the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) website Per Diem Rates .
If you work as a truck driver, you may be able to deduct business-related expenses that are not reimbursed your employer – even if you do not own the truck. You may only claim these deductions if you choose to itemize instead of taking the standard deduction. Vehicle Expenses. If you own your truck, you may choose to deduct the standard mileage rate or your actual operating expenses, including oil, gas, repairs, maintenance, registration and depreciation. For 2012, the IRS' standard mileage rate is 55-1/2 cents per mile. This number is subject to change as the cost of living increases
1 This deduction includes: batteries, tires, sponges, cleaning supplies, CB repairs, truck parts and repairs. 2  Fuel: Drivers can deduct the cost of fuel they pay for out-of-pocket and which is not reimbursed as long as that cost exceeds $100.00. These truck drivers can deduct the cost of insurance premium payments, leasing fees for the truck and interest payments made on the loan used for the truck's purchase. Owner-operators can also deduct the depreciation amount the truck sustained over the year.
NO, you need to amend your statement again. The per diem rate change took effect during the 2010 tax year. The correct rate for truck drivers for the 2012 tax year is 59./day for the entire year and a driver can deduct 80% of any un-reimbursed meal expenses. Also, if you have used actual expenses (and depreciation) for the truck you must keep the same method of deduction. Not to get too technical on you, but IRS Revenue Procedure 2010-51 states: “SECTION 3. DEFINITIONS. .01 Standard mileage rate.
Deduction Requirements. For a truck driver to claim a deduction, they must have what the IRS refers to as a tax home. This means that the driver must have a permanent location in which they receive mail and use to pay their taxes. These truck drivers can deduct the cost of insurance premium payments, leasing fees for the truck and interest payments made on the loan used for the truck's purchase. Owner-operators can also deduct the depreciation amount the truck sustained over the year.
NON-Deductible Expenses for Truck Drivers: 1  Expenses that were reimbursed by your employer. 2  Clothing that is adaptable to everyday wear. 3  Commuting costs (tolls, gas, parking). 4  Home phone line. 5  Interest on personal loans. 1 You CANNOT deduct the time you incur from working on your own equipment. 2  You CANNOT deduct the income lost as a result of deahead/unpaid mileage. 3  ONLY the expenses incurred to operate the truck during that time such as fuel, tolls and scales.
Such an individual would only be able to deduct 50% of the deductable amount. As a truck driver who is held to the DOT Hours of Service Limits (Duty Limits) you can deduct 80%. So, you can deduct 80% of your meal costs. Also, if you have used actual expenses (and depreciation) for the truck you must keep the same method of deduction. Not to get too technical on you, but IRS Revenue Procedure 2010-51 states: “SECTION 3. DEFINITIONS. .01 Standard mileage rate.