“You need antibiotics to get rid of the strep. The sore throat will go away without treatment. The rheumatic fever or post-streptococcal glomerluonephritis will not, and if you’re one of the unlucky ones to get that, could have a devastating impact on your life (lifelong heart problems or kidney failure).
1 Most sore throats are caused by a virus, such as a cold. 2  Antibiotics won't work for sore throats caused by a virus. 3  No You're right. 4 
1 No You're right. 2  Most sore throats are caused by a virus, such as a cold. 3  Antibiotics won't work for sore throats caused by a virus. 4  I'm not sure It may help to go back and read Get the Facts.. 5  Most sore throats are caused by a virus, such as a cold. 6
1 Most sore throats are caused by a virus, such as a cold. 2  Antibiotics won't work for sore throats caused by a virus. 3  I'm not sure It may help to go back and read Get the Facts.. 4 
Antibiotics and sore throat. Most people do not need antibiotics for sore throats, as the majority are caused by viruses (which are not affected by antibiotics). Antibiotics can help shorten the duration of symptoms in certain cases, for example if it’s suspected that you have a specific bacterial infection.
Most colds start with a sore throat, but a sore throat without other cold symptoms (such as a runny nose) can be strep throat, which does require antibiotics to halt the dangerous bacteria. To know for sure, you need a culture or rapid antigen test, which takes less than 20 minutes and can be done while you wait.
1 Antibiotics won't work for sore throats caused by a virus. 2  No You're right. 3  Most sore throats are caused by a virus, such as a cold. 4  Antibiotics won't work for sore throats caused by a virus. 5  I'm not sure It may help to go back and read Get the Facts.. 6
1 Most sore throats are caused by a virus, such as a cold. 2  Antibiotics won't work for sore throats caused by a virus. 3  I'm not sure It may help to go back and read Get the Facts.. 4  Most sore throats are caused by a virus, such as a cold. 5
Penicillin is often the first choice of antibiotic for strep throat unless you are allergic to it. Most antibiotics are taken for 10 days. Or a single shot of penicillin may be given. The shot does not help you get better any faster than other types of penicillin.