Living in the United States, you can be forgiven for believing that Irish people only eat potatoes, cabbage and corned beef! But if you’re planning a trip to Ireland, don’t worry — the food on offer in Ireland is widely varied to suit a variety of tastes and is generally delicious. Dinner at a Restaurant. If you do not choose to eat in an Irish restaurant by day, you really should eat in one at night – especially if you are staying in one of the cities, such as Dublin. Don’t just eat in your hotel. A long time ago, I worked with an American who had visited Ireland and the UK on a business trip.
Report Abuse. Irish people eat the same food as most other people around the world. We have Mc Donalds, Subway, KFC and Starbucks. The other day I went out to an Italien Restaurant and had garlic bread, pasta and ice cream. Today for breakfast I had cereal and toast. What I'm trying to say is that Irish people eat a wide range of foods from salads to pizza.
Many North Americans' ideas about Ireland's food and what Irish people eat have been shaped by images of a long-lost past, or stories older relatives have told them -- especially their grandparents... Traditional food: survivals, revivals. Among people born of native Irish stock in the last fifty years or so, and in native Irish culture at large, there is still a great love for the old-fashioned dishes like colcannon and lamb stew (aka Irish stew).
Eating out in Ireland: restaurants and fast food. Ethnic foods and restaurants are also popular and getting more popular here all the time, especially in the big cities -- though even very small towns now routinely have at least an Indian or Chinese restaurant or two to complement the traditional fish-and-chips takeout. Traditional food: survivals, revivals. Among people born of native Irish stock in the last fifty years or so, and in native Irish culture at large, there is still a great love for the old-fashioned dishes like colcannon and lamb stew (aka Irish stew).
Irish soups are thick, hearty, and filling, with potatoes, seafood, and various meats being common ingredients. Since their country is surrounded by water, the Irish enjoy many types of seafood, including salmon, scallops, lobster, mussels, and oysters. However, meat is eaten more frequently at Irish meals. 
The Irish like to be as healthy as possible in their eating, if not in their drinking. So they favor fresh vegetables that they grow themselves or that they buy in open air markets. For example, an Irish favorite is frying fresh tomatoes. They flavor with early wild garlic and scallions. They like sea food such as trout, salmon, oysters, mussels, lobsters, and cod. They make meat dishes with beef of such high quality that it has worldwide respect. But they also make meals around bacon and sausage. They respect their traditions with boiled cabbage, potatoes, potato pancakes, and world famous Irish stew. People from Alabama eat a wide range of foods, including anything from Chinese foods to Italian foods. Since we are in the South, we eat a lot of deep fried foods (fried chick … en, for example) and drink a lot of sweet iced tea.
Soda Bread. Soda bread is one of the simple foods eaten in Ireland, a basic recipe containing flour, baking soda, salt and soured milk or buttermilk. Many recipes for soda bread include raisins or currents, sugar, whiskey, or other fruits and nuts. Soda bread is a side dish for breakfast, lunch or dinner. The foods eaten in an Irish breakfast resemble those eaten for breakfast in many western countries, with a touch of Ireland’s flavor. A traditional Irish breakfast is a fried meal consisting of bacon, eggs, sausage, fried tomatoes, fried potato slices, and black and white pudding.
Ireland is particularly noted for its meat and dairy products. Beef, pork and lamb are common. Potatoes are strongly associated with Ireland … and are very common with many meals. Lots of other vegetables are common too, like cabbage, carrots, turnips, cauliflowers and many others. People from Alabama eat a wide range of foods, including anything from Chinese foods to Italian foods. Since we are in the South, we eat a lot of deep fried foods (fried chick … en, for example) and drink a lot of sweet iced tea.
Foods. Potatoes are not the only wholesome food with a place on the traditional Irish menu. Oats are the preferred type of grain. Soda bread is a classic Irish bread, often served with soup. This brown bread is made with whole wheat flour and buttermilk. Festivals. Visitors to Ireland can sample a number of Ireland’s traditional foods in bars, pubs and casual restaurants throughout the country. To truly immerse yourself in the delicacies of an area, however, there is nothing better than a festival in celebration of one of Ireland’s beloved foods.