The tectonic plates are composed of the lithosphere (which is the Earth's crust and the brittle solid portion of the upper mantle). The earth's tectonic plates are said to float on layers of magma, which is molten, or very hot liquid rock deep under the surface of theearth. Edit. Share to: 1  The Periodic Table of Elements Life is sustained by a number of chemical elements.
Tectonic plates are able to move because of the relative density of oceanic lithosphere and the relative weakness of the asthenosphere. Dissipation of heat from the mantle is acknowledged to be the original source of energy driving plate tectonics. 
A mysterious layer lies beneath Earth's massive tectonic plates. Sandwiched between two rock layers — the rigid lithosphere and the more pliable asthenosphere — this thin boundary is like the jelly in a peanut butter sandwich. Both layers are solid rock, but the lithosphere is hard, stiff and cold and the hotter asthenosphere flows and deforms on a geologic time scale. The discontinuity, molten or not, lies at depths from 30 miles (50 km) under the ocean floor to 120 miles (200 km) beneath continents.
The Lithosphere The part of the land that is moving is the Earth's surface called the lithosphere. The lithosphere is made up of the Earth's crust and a part of the upper mantle. The lithosphere moves in big chunks of land called tectonic plates. Some of these plates are huge and cover entire continents.
The lithosphere, which is the rigid outermost shell of a planet (the crust and upper mantle), is broken up into tectonic plates. The Earth's lithosphere is composed of seven or eight major plates (depending on how they are defined) and many minor plates. Where the plates meet, their relative motion determines the type of boundary: convergent, divergent, or transform. Earthquakes, volcanic activity, mountain-building, and oceanic trench formation occur along these plate boundaries.
The lithosphere-asthenosphere boundary (LAB) puts the plate in plate tectonics, marking the bottom of the stiff tectonic plates that shift on Earth's surface, riding convection currents deeper in Earth's mantle.oth layers are solid rock, but the lithosphere is hard, stiff and cold and the hotter asthenosphere flows and deforms on a geologic time scale. The discontinuity, molten or not, lies at depths from 30 miles (50 km) under the ocean floor to 120 miles (200 km) beneath continents.
Plate Tectonics. The main force that shapes our planet s surface over long amounts of time is the movement of Earth's outer layer by the process of plate tectonics. This picture shows how the rigid outer layer of the Earth, called the lithosphere, is made of plates which fit together like a jigsaw puzzle.hen two sections of the Earth's crust collide, one slab of crust can be forced back down into the deeper regions of the Earth, as shown in this diagram. This process is called subduction.
The plates are part of the crust, the upper layer of the Earth. The plates are moved by currents in the upper mantle. The plates and flexible upper mantle are referred to coll … ectively as the lithosphere and sit atop the mantle layer called the aesthenosphere. The earth's tectonic plates are said to float on layers of magma, which is molten, or very hot liquid rock deep under the surface of theearth. Edit. Share to: 1  The Periodic Table of Elements Life is sustained by a number of chemical elements.