A halogen oven, halogen convection oven, or halogen cooking pot is a type of oven that utilizes a halogen lamp as its heating element. It is used primarily for cooking. Halogen ovens are often noted for being more energy-efficient than a conventional oven due to their use of a halogen lamp reducing the cooking time usually needed in a conventional oven, and for also producing healthier lower-fat preparations of food. Reports often claim halogen ovens have shorter cooking times than conventional ovens, with one report stating a figure of up to 40% faster, but 20% faster on average. Another report claims a halogen oven cooks food up to 60% faster than a conventional oven.
Add on accessories depending on your cooking need. Cooking with a halogen infrared oven is even made more fun with the addition of several utensils and tools, such as thermal forks, extender ring, grilling plate, slicer, halogen cooker recipes, and even pizza tray. Convection oven equipped with fans. A halogen cooker can combine two amazing cooking philosophies, convection and radiation, to help you come up with stunning, delicious dishes for your friends and family. It is a convection oven too if you can find a fan.
The halogen oven is as cheap as a microwave oven, but cooks like a conventional oven, browning meat perfectly. It is also as quick as a microwave but doesn’t suffer with cold spots, the heat is distributed very evenly. It will also cook straight out of the freezer! No thawing necessary. 
USA Oven Reviews. Hi and Welcome to our review section. The Halogen oven market is now well established in the US and below is a summary of the reviews of the best current models. To make the reviews more rounded, I have now included some infrared convection ovens, the only difference being the type of heating element
kitchen oven image by PaulPaladin from Fotolia.com. Halogen ovens are counter-top kitchen devices that can be used to perform the same functions as traditional ovens, except that they offer different cooking times, a different cooking method and better visibility. Considerations. Halogen ovens are very small compared to traditional ovens. So they cannot cook large portions. The largest versions can be used to cook a turkey (less than 16 lbs.) with no room to spare.
And because it’s faster, it takes less energy. Halogen ovens typically use about 25% of the energy of a conventional oven to cook the same meal. They’re simple to operate and keep clean (most have a “self clean” mode) – and the glass bowl means that you’ll always be able to keep an eye on your food as it’s cooking. You may have seen halogen ovens advertised on TV, but it’s quite possible that you aren’t fully aware of the benefits which they offer. Halogen ovens are much faster than conventional ovens – typically they cook in about one third of the time of a conventional oven.
http://naturalfoodsdiet.org. Cooking with a halogen oven is an efficient and safe way to prepare meals for you and your family. In this video with Dr. Gerhauser, learn more about the benefits of using a halogen oven and also follow along with a great vegetable, potato, and meat recipe. 
A basic halogen oven features a heating chamber consisting of a clear glass bowl with a removable glass lid to which the heating assembly is secured. Inside the heating chamber, multi-level metal racks are used to elevate the contents during the cooking process. Reports often claim halogen ovens have shorter cooking times than conventional ovens, with one report stating a figure of up to 40% faster, but 20% faster on average. Another report claims a halogen oven cooks food up to 60% faster than a conventional oven.
Halogen Oven. A halogen oven uses a halogen crystal light to provide radiant heat, heating the air through infrared waves produced by the light. This acts in a similar fashion to a traditional oven's heating element, but it produces infrared heat more directly. Considerations. Halogen ovens are very small compared to traditional ovens. So they cannot cook large portions. The largest versions can be used to cook a turkey (less than 16 lbs.) with no room to spare.