The key thing to note here is that the cells that produce myelin in order to form a myelin sheath around an axon do not cover the entire axon. Look at the image on your screen. There are unmyelinated gaps between myelin sheaths surrounding an axon that we call nodes of Ranvier.
Schwann cells make myelin in the peripheral nervous system (PNS: nerves) and oligodendrocytes in the central nervous system (CNS: brain and spinal cord). In the PNS, one Schwann cell forms a single myelin sheath (Figure 1A).
In the peripheral nervous system, Schwann cells also surround and give support to small-diameter axons (= C fibers; 2 um or less). A series of Schwann cells covers the length of each axon. Abutting Schwann cells are tightly joined and nodes of Ranvier do not form.
gray matter-an area of unmyelinated neurons where cell bodies and synapses occur. In the spinal cord the synapses between sensory and motor and interneurons occurs in the gray matter. The cell bodies of the interneurons and motor neurons also are found
Myelinated nerves have a special type of cell wrapped around them called Schwann cells; unmyelinated nerves are not wrapped in Schwann cells. The Schwann cells increase the speed at which impulses travel along the axon, thus making myelinated nerves much faster at transmitting information than unmyelinated nerves.
The length of the myelin sheath along the axon is approximately 1 mm in the PNS. Between two adjacent myelin segments, there are approximately 1-μm-long gaps called nodes of Ranvier (Figure 1A and E). At the nodes, the axon is exposed to the extracellular space.
In addition, recall that Schwann cells are the cells in the peripheral nervous system that form the myelin sheath around a neuron's axon. In myelinated axons, there are unmyelinated gaps between the numerous myelin sheaths surrounding the same myelinated axon. These gaps are called nodes of Ranvier. A change in voltage across the plasma membrane of an unmyelinated portion of axon is called an action potential.
Schwann Cells. The myelin sheath is made of a material called myelin, which is produced by special cells known as Schwann cells. Schwann cells are cells in the peripheral nervous system that form the myelin sheath around a neuron's axon.
1 Node of Ranvier-regions of the axon that lie between the Schwann cells where the plasma membrane of a myelinated axon is close to the extracellular fluid. 2  Neuroglia-cells in the central nervous system that help to support, protect, nourish, and maintain the neurons (Fig.