Alpha-glucosidase inhibitors are oral anti-diabetic drugs used for diabetes mellitus type 2 that work by preventing the digestion of carbohydrates (such as starch and table sugar). Carbohydrates are normally converted into simple sugars (monosaccharides), which can be absorbed through the intestine. 
All forms of sugar break down into the smallest possible sugar molecule with the help of digestive enzymes housed in the lining of your small intestine. Once sugar returns to single molecule form, or a monosaccharide, it is absorbed through the intestine into your blood as glucose. Your pancreas secretes the hormone insulin to retrieve the blood glucose and distributes it to different cells throughout your body for use as energy. Sugar Digestion. Once you swallow food, it travels down your esophagus to your stomach where digestive juices dilute it for later movement through the rest of your digestive tract. Sugar and carbohydrate sugars pass through your stomach rather quickly to begin the process of breaking down in
Glucose. Glucose is a carbohydrate, and is the most important simple sugar in human metabolism. Glucose is called a simple sugar or a monosaccharide because it is one of the smallest units which has the characteristics of this class of carbohydrates. Glucose is also sometimes called dextrose. Corn syrup is primarily glucose. Glucose is one of the primary molecules which serve as energy sources for plants and animals. It is found in the sap of plants, and is found in the human bloodstream where it is referred to as blood sugar.
During digestion, chemicals in your stomach break down carbohydrates into glucose, which is absorbed into your bloodstream. Your pancreas responds to the glucose by releasing insulin. Insulin is responsible for allowing glucose into your body's cells. When the glucose enters your cells, the amount of glucose in your bloodstream falls. If you have type 1 diabetes, your pancreas doesn't secrete insulin — which causes a buildup of glucose in your bloodstream.
The presence of sucrase, an enzyme in the small intestine, accelerates this reaction. As separate monosaccharides, or one-molecule sugars, glucose and fructose are free for absorption. Both sugars cross the intestinal lining through distinct complex transporters into the bloodstream of the hepatic portal system. Sucrose, commonly known as table sugar, consists of one molecule of glucose and one molecule of fructose. Sugars like sucrose that consist of three or more molecules are called polysaccharides and are joined by a glycosidic bond, a special chemical link that binds carbohydrates together
Sugars are broken down by enzymes specific to the type of sugar. For example, lactase digests lactose and maltase digests maltose. Sucrose is metabolized in the small intestine by an enzyme that breaks it down into glucose and fructose. Glucose is the form of sugar circulating in your bloodstream that is controlled by the pancreas. When you consume sugar-containing foods, your body releases insulin to store the excess amounts. 
1 glucose generated by digestion of starch or lactose is absorbed in the small intestine only by cotransport with sodium, a fact that has exceptionally important implications in medicine. The animation seen below depicts digestion of maltose and entry of the resulting glucose, along with sodium, into the enterocyte (actually, two sodium ions are transported for each glucose).
Absorption. As separate monosaccharides, or one-molecule sugars, glucose and fructose are free for absorption. Both sugars cross the intestinal lining through distinct complex transporters into the bloodstream of the hepatic portal system. Sucrose, commonly known as table sugar, consists of one molecule of glucose and one molecule of fructose. Sugars like sucrose that consist of three or more molecules are called polysaccharides and are joined by a glycosidic bond, a special chemical link that binds carbohydrates together