The commands of the ANS leave the central nervous system and go to effector organs by means of two efferent neurons arranged in series. The first neuron (preganglionic neuron) synapses with the second neuron (postganglionic neuron) at an autonomic ganglion. Acetylcholine is the most common. Neurons that release it are called cholinergic. Cholinergic neurons include all preganglionic neurons of the autonomic nervous system, postganglionic neurons of the parasympathetic nervous system and some postganglionic neurons (sweat glands) of the sympathetic nervous system.
The activity of autonomic ganglionic neurons is modulated by “preganglionic neurons” located in the central nervous system. Preganglionic sympathetic neurons are located in the spinal cord, at the thorax and upper lumbar levels. The autonomic nervous system is unique in that it requires a sequential two-neuron efferent pathway; the preganglionic neuron must first synapse onto a postganglionic neuron before innervating the target organ.
The term autonomic nervous system (ANS) refers to collections of motor neurons (ganglia) situated in the head, neck, thorax, abdomen, and pelvis, and to the axonal connections of these neurons (Figure 1). Brain and spinal cord pathways regulating autonomic outflow. Preganglionic neurons for parasympathetic and sympathetic autonomic outflow are located in the brainstem and in thoracic, upper lumbar and sacral regions of the spinal cord (Figure 1). Several different brain centres control these preganglionic neurons.
1. Acetylcholine is the most common. Neurons that release it are called cholinergic. Cholinergic neurons include all preganglionic neurons of the autonomic nervous system, postganglionic neurons of the parasympathetic nervous system and some postganglionic neurons (sweat glands) of the sympathetic nervous system.
motor neuron, one of various efferent nerve cells that transmit nerve impulses from the brain or from the spinal cord to muscular or glandular tissue. According to location, some kinds of motor neurons are the peripheral motor neurons and the upper motor neurons. Also called motoneuron. 2. (type II): stellate neurons with short axons in the cerebral and cerebellar cortices and in the retina. motor neuron motoneuron. postganglionic n's neurons whose cell bodies lie in the autonomic ganglia and whose purpose is to relay impulses beyond the ganglia. preganglionic n's neurons whose cell bodies lie in the central nervous system and whose efferent fibers terminate in the autonomic ganglia
Visceral efferent neurons are motor neurons that conduct impulses to smooth muscle, cardiac muscle, & glands. These neurons make up the Autonomic Nervous System. Some visceral efferent neurons begin in the brain; others in the spinal cord. Somatic efferent neurons are motor neurons that conduct impulses from the spinal cord to skeletal muscles. These neurons are multipolar neurons, with cell bodies located in the gray matter of the spinal cord. Somatic efferent neurons leave the spinal cord through the ventral root of spinal nerves
1. Consist of two-neuron relays (preganglionic neurons from the central nervous system to autonomic ganglia, synapses, postganglionic neurons from ganglia to visceral effectors). 2. In contrast, somatic motor neurons conduct all the way from the CNS to somatic effectors with no intervening synapses. Two general types of cells are found in the nervous system: neurons and neuroglia. A. Neurons 1. Consist of three main parts—dendrites (conduct impulses to cell body of neuron); cell body of neuron; and axon (conducts impulses away from cell body of neuron) 2.
Within the brain, the autonomic nervous system is regulated by the hypothalamus. Autonomic functions include control of respiration, cardiac regulation (the cardiac control center), vasomotor activity (the vasomotor center), and certain reflex actions such as coughing, sneezing, swallowing and vomiting. The autonomic nervous system is unique in that it requires a sequential two-neuron efferent pathway; the preganglionic neuron must first synapse onto a postganglionic neuron before innervating the target organ.