A: In simple terms, a pleural effusion is the collection of fluid between the layers in the pleural space. This is the space between the outside of the lungs and the inside of the chest cavity and is lined by thin layers of tissue. We all do one common thing every second of our lives and that is breathing. It may seem like a simple process but it has vital significance. Pleural effusion indicates a condition when this simple process becomes complicated. In lay man terms, the condition can be explained as water around the lungs.
Areas of Expertise. Malignant Pleural Effusion. Cancer that spreads into the pleural cavity, or the space between the lung and the chest wall, can create fluid or a pleural effusion. This process can occur from lung cancer, mesothelioma, or other types of cancers
Pleural fluid analysis is used to help diagnose the cause of inflammation of the pleura (pleuritis) and/or accumulation of fluid in the pleural space (pleural effusion). 
Causes of Pleural Effusions. The pleura is a thin membrane that lines the surface of the lungs and the inside of the chest wall outside the lungs. In pleural effusions, fluid accumulates in the space between the layers of pleura. Pleural effusions often cause no symptoms. Symptoms are more likely when a pleural effusion is moderate or large-sized, or if inflammation is present. Symptoms of pleural effusions may include: 1  Shortness of breath. 2  Chest pain, especially on breathing in deeply (pleurisy, or pleuritic pain). 3  Fever.
Pleural effusion occurs when too much fluid collects in the pleural space (the space between the two layers of the pleura). It is commonly known as water on the lungs.. It is characterized by shortness of breath, chest pain, gastric discomfort (dyspepsia), and cough. pleural effusion. the presence of fluid in the pleural space, between the membrane encasing the lung and that lining the thoracic cavity; types include chylothorax, hemothorax, hydrothorax, and pyothorax (empyema).
emanating from or pertaining to the pleura. pleural effusion. accumulation of fluid in the space between the membrane encasing the lung and that lining the thoracic cavity. The normal pleural space contains only a small amount of fluid to prevent friction as the lung expands and deflates. pleural effusion. the presence of fluid in the pleural space, between the membrane encasing the lung and that lining the thoracic cavity; types include chylothorax, hemothorax, hydrothorax, and pyothorax (empyema).
Pleural effusion definition. A pleural effusion is a buildup of fluid in the pleural space, an area between the layers of tissue that line the lungs and the chest cavity. It may also be referred to as effusion or pulmonary effusion. The development of a pleural effusion occurs from fluid seeping into the pleural space, a thin area between the visceral and pleural membranes in the chest cavity, which normally contains a small amount of fluid to facilitate smooth lung movement.
Understanding pleural effusion. Pleura refers to thin membranes that line the lungs and the inside of the chest cavity. While breathing, when the chest moves, the lining also moves along with it smoothly within the chest cavity to let the lung expand and inhale air. We all do one common thing every second of our lives and that is breathing. It may seem like a simple process but it has vital significance. Pleural effusion indicates a condition when this simple process becomes complicated. In lay man terms, the condition can be explained as water around the lungs.