Some foods and herbs contain substances similar to estrogen and progesterone, and scientists have discovered a plant that contains progesterone. Plant hormones may offer a safer option for hormone replacement therapy. Synthetic hormones have a number of side effects and risks, such as breast cancer.
6. Avoid all herbs that can increase levels of estrogen – with estrogen dominance, your progesterone levels are lower. These herbs include blue cohosh, black cohosh, dong quai, hops, lavender, licorice, motherwort leaf, rhodiola rose root, red clover blossom, saw palmetto berry, and tea tree oil.
Additional amounts, secreted by the ovaries, influence menstruation and pregnancy. Progesterone is not present in any food. However, there is research indicating that some foods -- such as fermented soy products and foods containing vitamins C and E -- might promote the body's production of progesterone.
Women with progesterone deficiency should definitely eat eggs. Dairy Products – Dairy products such as milk, cheese made from cow’s milk contain high amounts of progesterone. Cow’s milk is especially rich in progesterone. Chicken – White meats such as chicken also contain progesterone hormone in small quantity. However, these days, poultry are artificially impregnated with hormones. Consuming such meat may not be the best idea to increase your progesterone levels. We have talked about this issue in one of our Free Health Talks before.
Many sites, some of which cited medical information or studies, stated that there are foods that contain progesterone, such as chicken, lean red meat, nuts, seeds, avocados, and, especially, the yolk of eggs. Then, you come along with this no foods contain it, you cannot get it without eating the placenta stuff.
Eggs contain progesterone in abundant amounts; especially, egg yolk is very rich source. Women with the deficiency should definitely eat eggs. Dairy Products. Dairy products, such as milk, cheese made from cow's milk, contain high amounts of progesterone.
There are no foods that contain progesterone.It's an animal hormone and never found in plants. Not even soy beans or yams! Plants such as the soy bean, Dioscorea species of yams, fenugreek and many more, contain phytosterols, two such are stigmasterol and diosgenin.