The normal duration at which the seed of the grass germinates is between 6 to 10 days after the seed has been planted. However it can also take from minimum 4 days to maximum forty days. The climate condition during which the seed is sown is also very essential for the seeds to germinate faster and to grow. If the seed is sown during the time of year when it is wet the grass is most likely to germinate faster. As discussed earlier about how long does grass seed take to grow, the two seasons which are most suitable for sowing of grass seeds is spring and fall.
How long does it take for grass seed to germinate? (See also How long does it take for seed to grow). Depending on the conditions, you can expect to see some grass seed mixtures germinate quite quickly. If conditions at the time of sowing are perfect, you may see germination is as little as 2-4 days. On average though, germination will take between 7-14 days. 
Buffalograss (Stenotaphrum secundatum) seeds take 14 to 30 days to germinate. Plant 1 pound of Bermudagrass seeds per 1,000 square feet in late spring or early summer. For the same area, plant 1 1/2 to 2 pounds of buffalo grass in spring or fall. Cool Season Long Germination. Colonial bentgrass (Agrostis tenuis) and creeping bentgrass (Agrostis stolonifera) seeds take 10 to 14 days to germinate. Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis) seeds take 14 to 30 days.
If stored in a cool, dry place, grass seed can last for 2-3 years. However, the germination rate (the number of seeds that will grow) will decrease over time, so you may not get the same results you would if you were using fresh seed. For best results, use fresh product and try to plant it within a year. 
When you plant grass seeds, it is important to match the grass species to your local climate and plant the seeds at the correct time and rate. To get a rough idea how long for your lawn to get established, add 30 to 45 days to the germination time. Cool Season Long Germination. Colonial bentgrass (Agrostis tenuis) and creeping bentgrass (Agrostis stolonifera) seeds take 10 to 14 days to germinate. Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis) seeds take 14 to 30 days.
Concerning how long does grass seed take to grow, if the conditions are good and the variety of grass used is of the type that grows fast, within a week’s time the result may be a lush green patch in the lawn. While it may not be properly grown yet the visible result may take about two to three weeks. If the seed is sown during the time of year when it is wet the grass is most likely to germinate faster. As discussed earlier about how long does grass seed take to grow, the two seasons which are most suitable for sowing of grass seeds is spring and fall.
Tall fescue (Lolium arundinaceum) seeds germinate in seven to 12 days. Hard fescue (Festuca longifolia) and red fescue (Festuca rubra) seeds take seven to 14 days. Plant 7 to 9 pounds of annual ryegrass seed or 6 to 9 pounds of perennial ryegrass per 1,000 square feet in the fall. Cool Season Long Germination. Colonial bentgrass (Agrostis tenuis) and creeping bentgrass (Agrostis stolonifera) seeds take 10 to 14 days to germinate. Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis) seeds take 14 to 30 days.
The label on a grass seed package provides important information, including the germination rate. A rate of 90-95% is preferred, but some grass varieties will typically be found in the 80% range. The higher, the better. An 85% germination rate means that if you plant 100 seeds, 85 of them should sprout and grow. Grass seed germination always seems to take a long time, especially when you watch it closely. That makes it very disheartening when the results are less than expected. Sometimes people wait two, three, four weeks, but never see any grass.
Cool-season grasses tend to germinate quickly, usually between three and 14 days. Perennial rye grass (Lolium perenne), which thrives in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 3 through 8, can germinate in as few as five days, although it can take up to 10 days, for example. Grass seed often begins to germinate in less than a month, which means you should start to see tiny green shoots in the areas you seeded. Establishment of those shoots into a lush, full lawn can take well into the growing season, but it should begin to resemble the lawn you want after you mow it the first time.
The germination time for grass seed ranges from 5 to 30 days depending on the variety. It can be even longer than this in cooler temperatures. This is how long it will take to actually see the grass growing. Until this point, the seed, or the soil and mulch in contact with the seed, must stay moist. 