Conchita is a somewhat popular first name for women (#2347 out of 4276, Top 55%) but a unique last name for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Popular alternative forms of Conchita (outside Top 1000) are Concetta and Concepcion. These girl names were at the apex of their popularity during 1900-1909 (usage of 0.5665%) and have become much less popular since, with the versions Concepcion and Concetta becoming less fashionable.
Conchita is originally a diminutive for the Spanish given name Concepcion. Concepción conxita is The catalan. Equivalent conchita is also the diminutive of (concha). seashell Conchita is originally a diminutive for the Spanish given name Concepcion. Concepción conxita is The catalan. equivalent
Conchita /con-chi-ta/ [3 sylls.] as a name for girls is of Latin derivation, and the name Conchita means conception. Conchita is an alternate form of Concepcion (Latin). Compare surname Cocchia. (2000 U.S. Census). Popular alternative forms of Conchita (outside Top 1000) are Concetta and Concepcion. These girl names were at the apex of their popularity during 1900-1909 (usage of 0.5665%) and have become much less popular since, with the versions Concepcion and Concetta becoming less fashionable.
Conchita is originally a diminutive for the Spanish given name Concepcion. Concepción conxita is The catalan. Equivalent conchita is also the diminutive of (concha). Seashell concita may refer: to Conchita is originally a diminutive for the Spanish given name Concepcion. Concepción conxita is The catalan. equivalent
Conchita is originally a diminutive for the Spanish given name Concepcion. concepción Conchita is originally a diminutive for the Spanish given name Concepcion. Concepción conxita is The catalan. equivalent
Conchita is a familiar form of the Spanish Concepcion. Concepción conchita is uncommon as a baby girl. Name it is not in the top 1000. Names baby names that sound Like conchita Include, Canada, Conceta, Concheta, Conchetta, Conshita (Kenyata), English, qimata And. kenadea Conchita is uncommon as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names. Baby names that sound like Conchita include Canada, Conceta, Concheta, Conchetta, Conshita, Kenyata (English), Qimata, and Kenadea.
Conchita Wurst (also mononymously known as Conchita) is an Austrian pop recording artist and drag queen portrayed by Thomas Tom Neuwirth (born 6 November 1988). Following her coronation in Eurovision, international media dubbed Conchita as the Queen of Austria. Born in Gmunden, Austria, Neuwirth moved to Graz to do his matura exam with a focus on fashion, before embarking on a singing career through the 2007 casting show Starmania.
[ 3 syll. con -(c)hi-ta, co-nch-ita ] The baby girl name Conchita is pronounced as KowNK IY TAH †. Conchita has its origins in the Spanish language and it is also used largely in Spanish. Conchita is a familiar form of the Spanish Concepcion. Concepción conchita is uncommon as a baby girl. name Conchita is uncommon as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names. Baby names that sound like Conchita include Canada, Conceta, Concheta, Conchetta, Conshita, Kenyata (English), Qimata, and Kenadea.
Girls are frequently given the name Maria or Maria followed by a suffix name and boys are sometimes given the name Maria as a middle name. Girls with Marian composite names may use the suffix portion of their name as their main informal name. View the Conchita Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Conchita has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Conchita to other names.