Please Share! When pink eye is caused by certain bacteria or viruses, the infected person can be contagious for several days to several weeks or more. Fortunately, people do not appear to be contagious during the incubation period  the time between when they are exposed and when pink eye symptoms begin. Schools and day care centers often require a child diagnosed with pink eye to stay home until the condition is resolved.
For someone with pink eye caused by a virus, the person can be contagious for up to 14 days from the time that symptoms first appear. Keep in mind that just because you or your child was given an antibiotic, this does not necessarily mean that it is bacterial conjunctivitis. 
1. Pink eye caused by virus or bacteria is highly contagious, but during the incubation period for pink eye, it is not contagious. Bacterial conjunctivitis becomes contagious when the symptoms start to appear and continue for 24 hours after an antibiotic is given. Incubation Period for Pink Eye. Conjunctivitis is also referred to as red eye and is quite common. It is also called infectious conjunctivitis. The front of the eye is covered with a thin tissue layer which gets red and inflamed.
The incubation period for pink eye will vary, depending on whether it is caused by bacteria or a virus and the specific type. For a viral infection, generally 12 hours to three days later, signs and/or symptoms of pink eye will appear. Pink eye is the layman's term for conjunctivitis. Conjunctivitis is inflammation of the conjunctiva, which is a clear, thin piece of tissue that covers the whites of the eyes and the inner eyelids. There are several reasons why the conjunctiva can become inflamed.
So the time between the exposure and the beginning of the first symptoms is known as the incubation period. » For a pink eye that has been caused by a viral infection, the incubation period is generally 1 - 12 hours. » If the pinky eye is bacterial, then the incubation period can range from 1 - 3 days. » In some people, STD like chlamydia or gonorrhoea may also trigger pink eye
Incubation period for pink eye caused by virus is around 12 hours to 3 days and a person can go back to work or school when the symptoms improve. That would be in 3 to 5 days. For bacterial infection, the person can go back to work 24 hours after antibiotic has been administered and symptoms start improving. Incubation Period for Pink Eye. Conjunctivitis is also referred to as red eye and is quite common. It is also called infectious conjunctivitis. The front of the eye is covered with a thin tissue layer which gets red and inflamed.
Viral and bacterial infections, foreign bodies or allergies may cause the condition. Incubation Period For bacterial conjunctivitis, the incubation period ranges from 24-72 hours, and for viral conjunctivitis, the incubation period is usually 12 hours – 3 days. Clinical Description Conjunctivitis, or pink eye, is an acute condition characterized by redness of the eye(s). Other symptoms can include tearing, irritation, and photophobia, which may be followed by swelling of the lids and/or a purulent discharge.
Pink eye Incubation Period. The incubation period for pink eye depends on the cause of the condition. Incubation period is amount of time between exposure to pathogen or allergen to the start of symptoms. Symptoms of pink eye do not develop immediately after contracting infectious agent. Symptoms of viral conjunctivitis typically start to appear 12 hours to 3 days after exposure to virus. Incubation period for bacterial conjunctivitis is between 1 and 3 days. Even though viral and bacterial conjunctivitis are contagious, an infected person cannot transmit the disease during the incubation period. 
Incubation Period for Pink Eye: An Overview. Pink eye is the layman's term for conjunctivitis. Conjunctivitis is inflammation of the conjunctiva, which is a clear, thin piece of tissue that covers the whites of the eyes and the inner eyelids. There are several reasons why the conjunctiva can become inflamed.