Top 10 facts about the world. Flautas are a Mexican dish made by wrapping a tortilla around a savory filling and deep frying the result. Typically served hot out of the fryer, they may be topped with an assortment of ingredients. Flautas with a dipping sauce. Flautas are typically made with flour tortillas whereas taquitos are made with corn tortillas. Queso fresco, which is used in making flautas. Flautas can be topped with salsa or other condiments.
Definition of FLAUTA. : a usually corn tortilla rolled tightly around a filling (as of meat) and deep-fried. See flauta defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
Ad. The base of a flauta is a tortilla, which can be small or burrito sized, depending on the inclination of the cook. Fresh tortillas are usually preferable, since they are more flexible and flavorful. Flautas with a dipping sauce. Flautas are typically made with flour tortillas whereas taquitos are made with corn tortillas. Queso fresco, which is used in making flautas. Flautas can be topped with salsa or other condiments.
In Mexican cuisine, ‘flautas’ refers to small tortillas rolled around a filling, usually meat-based, and deep-fried. They are similar to chimichangas, but smaller. Flautas are also called ‘taquitos’. The concept is similar to Chinese spring-rolls, although the pastry is quite different. 1  tortillas. 2  chimichangas. 3  taquitos. 
Answer: Flautas and Taquitos are very similar and the terms are used interchangable depending on what your location is. The Tortilla Difference. Most of the time Flautas, which mean flutes, usually refer to a flour tortilla that is rolled up around a filling and deep fried. A Taquito is a corn tortilla rolled in a similar fashion with a filling of beef, chicken or cheese and fried until crisp. Sometimes the Flautas are rolled to be narrower on one side then the other to create a long, narrow cone shape. However, you can also find Taquitos made from flour tortillas and Flautas made from corn. The Length Difference. In some areas of Mexico the Flauta and Taquito are determined by size. the Flauta is very long, made from a burrito-sized corn tortilla.
In some cases, they may appear on a menu with names like flauta con pollo, indicating that the flauta is made with chicken, or flautas de Guadalajara, meaning that they are in the style of Guadalajara. These more detailed names can provide clues as to how the dish may taste. Flautas with a dipping sauce. Flautas are typically made with flour tortillas whereas taquitos are made with corn tortillas. Queso fresco, which is used in making flautas. Flautas can be topped with salsa or other condiments.
Spanish for small taco ), rolled taco, or flauta (. [ˈflauta] , lit. Spanish for flute) is a Mexican food dish most often consisting of a small rolled-up tortilla and some type of filling, including beef, cheese or chicken. The filled tortilla is crisp-fried. The dish is often topped with condiments such as sour cream and guacamole. Corn tortillas are generally used to make taquitos; the dish is more commonly known as flautas when they are larger than their taquito counterparts, and can be made with either flour or corn tortillas although using corn is more traditional.