The connective tissues consist of cells and extracellular or intercellular substance (see illustration). The cells include many varieties, of which the following are the most important: fibroblasts, macrophages (histiocytes), mast cells, plasma cells, melanocytes, and fat cells. 
Connective Tissue A really diverse group of tissues: Connective tissue is the most diverse of the four tissue types with a wide variety of functions. It ranges in consistency from the gel-like softness of areolar connective tissue to the hardness of bone. A really diverse group of tissues. Connective tissue is the most diverse of the four tissue types with a wide variety of functions. It ranges in consistency from the gel-like softness of areolar connective tissue to the hardness of bone. Blood is also a connective tissue.
Connective tissue (blue) is seen supporting the epithelium (purple). Connective tissue (CT) is one of the four types of biological tissue that support, connect, or separate different types of tissues and organs in the body. The other three types are epithelial, muscle, and nervous tissue. Connective tissue is found in between other tissues everywhere in the body, including the nervous system. In the central nervous system the outer membranes, the meninges, that cover the brain and spinal cord are composed of connective tissue. All connective tissue apart from blood and lymph consists of three main components: fibers (elastic and collagenous fibers), ground substance and cells. (Not all authorities include blood or lymph as connective tissue.) Blood and lymph lack the fiber component. All are immersed in the body water.
The shape and form of the body, its organs, muscles, bones and the bodies architecture, are determined by the properties of connective tissue. Connective tissue forms a continuous interconnected system from the top of your head to the tip of your toes. Every cell in your body in fact is connected to every other cell, in a continuous matrix of connective tissue. I guess thats why its called connective tissue! Connective tissue fibers not only connect the cells to one another but the DNA of each cell via the cytoskeleton, which is a miniature musculoskeletal system inside the cell that also is in contact with the outer cell wall and associated
Collagens and elastin are the main protein content in the connective tissues. The connective tissues are of various types like loose connective tissues, dense connective tissues, blood, bone and cartilage and each perform various important functions. Different cells collectively form a tissue and do many important activities in the body. The structures of these human body tissues are different from one another and each tissue is formed in different parts of the body. The Human body tissues are of different types and each tissue performs different tasks.
Human body tissues are really very important and play a vital role in the function of different body parts. The human body is made up of different tissues and cells which jointly work for the proper functioning. Different cells collectively form a tissue and do many important activities in the body. The structures of these human body tissues are different from one another and each tissue is formed in different parts of the body. The Human body tissues are of different types and each tissue performs different tasks. The different types of tissues are connective tissues, epithelial tissue, muscular tissue, nervous system tissue, lymphatic tissue which are very important for body. The connective tissue has its own importance and these tissues are responsible for the support of many body organs and parts
Cartilage and Bone. Fluid connective tissue types, of which there are only two, are important in transport and body defense. Most connective tissues are variants of the second group, connective tissue proper where cells are interspersed among protein fibers in a fluid-filled matrix. Supportive connective tissues include cartilage and bone, more durable connective tissue types due to the semisolid or solid ground substance that accumulates in the matrix. Since the matrix of supportive connective tissues is either a semisolid or solid, cells of these tissues occupy small spaces or lacunae.
The matrix of connective tissue typically consists of fibers and a featureless ground substance. The most abundant fiber in connective tissues is a tough protein called collagen. Tendons, ligaments, and the white stringy tissue (fascia) seen in some cuts of meat are composed almost entirely of collagen, as is leather, which consists of the connective tissue layer (dermis) of animal skins. 
As a result of this basic topology, other tissues are either supported upon connective tissue (epithelial surfaces), invaginated into connective tissue (glandular epithelium), or embedded within the connective tissue (blood vessels, muscles, and nerves). The extracellular matrix of connective tissue is composed of ground substance and fibers. In ordinary connective tissue, the ground substanc e consists mainly of water. The principal fiber type is collagen (the most abundant protein in the body), with elastic fibers as a minor element.