Get rid of the ants in your garden, on your patio, and along the foundation of your home. In a blender, make a smooth puree of a few orange peels in 1 cup warm water. Slowly pour the solution over and into anthills to send the little pests packing.
If you've had it with sharing your living quarters with roaches or ants, give them the heave-ho by sprinkling boric acid along any cracks or crevices where you've spotted the intruders. Use a baster to blow small amounts of the powder into hard-to-reach corners and any deep voids you come across.
Getting Rid of Ants. When you first see ants in your house, it's time to take action to get rid of them! 1  Getting rid of them is easy when you choose the ant killer that’s right for you from our proven baits and gels: 2  Baits come in a protective housing; ants enter and carry the poison away with them.
1 Table salt. 2  This is the best and the cheapest way to get rid of ants. 3  Boil water and add salt to it. 4  Pour salty water into a spray bottle and spread in places, where you usually see the ants. 5  Pepper. 6  It is as effective as salt. 7  Both cayenne and black pepper work wonders.
Directions. 1  Mix the sugar and Boric Acic well. 2  Add the warm water slowly, mixing all the while so it won't be too lumpy. 3  Store in a jar. 4  When ready to use, put cotton into the top of a jar lid to fill it, and then saturate the cotton to the top. 5  Place where you want it; make several if you need it.
Mixing boric acid powder or borax with water and sugar is the most common bait. Boric acid affects ants both externally (when in powder form; similar to diatomaceous earth) and internally (when ingested). Make a mixture of 1 cup water, 2 cups sugar, 2 tablespoons boric acid. 1  Wait for the ants to show up. 2  If you have pets and/or children around (see Warnings below) use the bait in a jam jar where ants can go to seek food. 3  You can mix peanut butter as well.
Travis Rathbone for Reader's Digest. Get rid of the ants in your garden, on your patio, and along the foundation of your home. In a blender, make a smooth puree of a few orange peels in 1 cup warm water. Slowly pour the solution over and into anthills to send the little pests packing.