The respiratory system-Part 1: nose, pharynx and larynx. 23 May, 2006. This series looks at the structure and function of the respiratory system and describes the mechanics of breathing. Each of the cells in the body needs a supply of oxygen in order to function as well as a means to expel the carbon dioxide produced. 
Oropharynx-is the second/middle portion of the pharynx, where the pharynx meets the oesophagus. It serves both a respiratory and digestive function as both air and food pass through this region of the pharynx Laryngopahrynx-is the third/lowermost portion of the pharynx, where the pharynx meets the larynx. The pharynx is also called the throat and it does double duty. It is part of the digestive tract in that it allows you to swallow your food. It is also part of the respiratory … tract because it allows air to flow in and out of your lungs.
The air inhaled from the nose and mouth is taken to the pharynx, from which it is sent to the trachea or wind pipe. The air is then sent to the lungs. The mucus lining in the walls of the oropharynx can change slightly to adapt both food as well as air, thus, the pharynx is also a part of the respiratory system. 
The primary function of the respiratory system is to allow the lungs to take in atmospheric oxygen through inhalation and dispose of the waste products the body does not need through exhalation. Inhalation is an active motion that causes the diaphragm to contract. Respiratory System. Several organs of the respiratory system are responsible for the process of breathing. The nose, pharynx, larynx, trachea, bronchi, and lungs work together to allow gas exchange to occur at the cellular level.
The pharynx, or throat, is a part of the body that helps with eating and with breathing. It is a passage that leads from the mouth and nose to the esophagus and the larynx. The esophagus is part of the digestive system, and the larynx is part of the respiratory system. The pharynx consists of three main divisions. One part leads from the back of the nose.
Anatomy The larynx is a short, epithelium-lined tube formed by nine pieces of cartilage and several ligaments that bind them together.... Click to read more below. The larynx is a tough, flexible segment of the respiratory tract connecting the pharynx to the trachea in the neck. It plays a vital role in the respiratory tract by allowing air to pass through it while keeping food and drink from blocking the airway. 
The pharynx (plural: pharynges) is an organ found in vertebrates and invertebrates, though the structure is not universally the same across the species. In humans the pharynx is part of the digestive system and also of the conducting zone of the respiratory system. The conducting zone also includes the nose, larynx, trachea, bronchi, and bronchioles, and their function is to filter, warm, and moisten air and conduct it into the lungs. It makes up the part of the throat situated immediately posterior to the nasal cavity, posterior to the mouth and superior to the esophagus and larynx. The human pharynx is conventionally divided into three sections: the nasopharynx, the oropharynx and the laryngopharynx. It is also important in vocalization.
The primary function of the respiratory system is to supply the  blood with oxygen in order for the blood to deliver oxygen to all  parts of the body. The respiratory system … does this through  breathing. When we breathe, we inhale oxygen and exhale carbon  dioxide. 