Guide. Your pulse is the rate at which your heart beats. Your pulse is usually called your heart rate, which is the number of times your heart beats each minute (bpm). But the rhythm and strength of the heartbeat can also be noted, as well as whether the blood vessel feels hard or soft
Even if you’re not an athlete, knowledge about your heart rate can help you monitor your fitness level — and it might even help you spot developing health problems. Your heart rate, or pulse, is the number of times your heart beats per minute. Normal heart rate varies from person to person. Knowing yours can be an important heart-health gauge. 
Your pulse, pulse rate or heart rate refer to how many times your heart beats per minute or a specific unit of time-how many contractions occur in the heart's ventricles (the lower chambers of the heart). 
A pulse rate is the number of heartbeats per minute. The resting pulse rate for an average adult is between 50 and 90 beats per minute. This answer should not be considered medical advice... This answer should not be considered medical advice and should not take the place of a doctor’s visit. 
The pulse rate is a measurement of the heart rate, or the number of times the heart beats per minute. As the heart pushes blood through the arteries, the arteries expand and contract with the flow of the blood. 
Very simply, your heart rate is the number of times your heart beats per minute. You can measure your heart rate by feeling your pulse-the rhythmic expansion and contraction (or throbbing) of an artery as blood is forced through it by the regular contractions of the heart. It is a measure of how hard your heart is working.
This is called a resting pulse. Some people like to check their pulse before and after they exercise. You check your pulse rate by counting the beats in a set period of time (at least 15 to 20 seconds) and multiplying that number to get the number of beats per minute. Your pulse is usually called your heart rate, which is the number of times your heart beats each minute (bpm).
View full size image. Heart rate, also known as pulse, is the number of times a person's heart beats per minute. A normal heart rate depends on the individual, age, body size, heart conditions, whether the person is sitting or moving, medication use and even air temperature. Even emotions can have an impact on heart rate. 
Pulse (or the count of arterial pulse per minute) is equivalent to measuring the heart rate. The heart rate can also be measured by listening to the heart beat directly (auscultation), traditionally using a stethoscope and counting it for a minute. The radial pulse is commonly measured using three fingers. 
Your pulse is your heart rate, or the number of times your heart beats in one minute. 2 Pulse rates vary from person to person. Your pulse is lower when you are at rest and increases when you exercise (more oxygen-rich blood is needed by the body when you exercise). Here are some key points about heart and pulse rate. More detail and supporting information is in the main article. 1  Your heart rate is the number of times per minute that the heart beats. 2  Heart rate rises significantly in response to adrenaline if a person is frightened or surprised.