Ilex South Africa was established in 1992 as a wholly owned subsidiary of Ilex Medical LTD. Today Ilex South Africa is one of the major suppliers of IVD products in South Africa...... 
The genus Ilex is widespread throughout the temperate and subtropical regions of the world. It includes species of trees, shrubs, and climbers, with evergreen or deciduous foliage and inconspicuous flowers. Its range was more extended in the Tertiary period and many species are adapted to laurel forest habitat. It is a genus of small, evergreen trees with smooth, glabrous, or pubescent branchlets. The plants are generally slow-growing with some species growing to 25 m (82 ft) tall. The type species is the European holly Ilex aquifolium described by Linnaeus.
Distribution. There are three genera and over 500 species in the holly family, most growing in Asia and tropical America. More than 200 evergreen tree and shrub species belong to the Ilex genus and occur mainly in temperate and subtropical forests. There is only one species in South Africa, Ilex mitis. It is very widely distributed in Africa, growing on the banks of rivers and streams and moist spots in woods and forests. In South Africa it grows in all the provinces as well as in Swaziland and Lesotho. Description. An evergreen tree, between 10 and 25 m tall, with a straight trunk and a rounded canopy. Stems are normally round. Bark on the young tree is a pale grey-brown with patches of white, smooth with fine, transverse ridges and yellow-brown corky specks.
Quercus ilex. Quercus ilex, the evergreen oak, holm oak, or holly oak is a large evergreen oak native to the Mediterranean region. It takes its name from holm, an ancient name for holly. It is a member of the white oak section of the genus, with acorns that mature in a single summer. 1 Quercus ilex subsp. ilex. 2  Native in the north and east of the species' range, from northern Iberia and France east to Greece. 3  Leaves narrow; acorns 2 cm (0.79 in) long, bitter tasting.
Quercus ilex is a medium-sized tree 20–27 metres (66–89 ft) tall with finely square-fissured blackish bark and leathery evergreen leaves. The old leaves fall 1–2 years after new leaves emerge. The leaves are dark green above and pale whitish-grey with dense short hairs below. 1 Quercus ilex subsp. ilex. 2  Native in the north and east of the species' range, from northern Iberia and France east to Greece. 3  Leaves narrow; acorns 2 cm (0.79 in) long, bitter tasting.
Not to be confused with Holy. Ilex /ˈaɪlɛks/ , or holly, is a genus of 400 to 600 species of flowering plants in the family Aquifoliaceae, and the only living genus in that family. The species are evergreen and deciduous trees, shrubs, and climbers from tropics to temperate zones worldwide. It is a genus of small, evergreen trees with smooth, glabrous, or pubescent branchlets. The plants are generally slow-growing with some species growing to 25 m (82 ft) tall. The type species is the European holly Ilex aquifolium described by Linnaeus.
ilex. n. 1. (Plants) any of various trees or shrubs of the widely distributed genus Ilex, such as the holly and inkberry: family Aquifoliaceae. 2. (Plants) another name for the holm oak. [C16: from Latin]. Through the speckled shadow of the great deodar-forests; through oak feathered and plumed with ferns; birch, ilex, rhododendron, and pine, out on to the bare hillsides' slippery sunburnt grass, and back into the woodlands' coolth again, till oak gave way to bamboo and palm of the valley, the lama swung untiring.
Ilex guayusa (/ˈaɪlɛks ˈɡwaɪjuːsə/ or /ˈaɪlɛks ˈwaɪjuːsə/) is an Amazonian tree of the holly genus, native to the Ecuadorian Amazon Rainforest. One of three known caffeinated holly trees, the leaves of the guayusa tree are dried and brewed like a tea for their stimulative effects. The guayusa plant is a tree which grows 6–30 meters tall. The leaves are evergreen and 2.5–7 cm long. The flowers are small and white.