Decoupage Overview. Derived from the French word d couper, which means to cut up, decoupage is the art of decorating objects using paper cutouts, paint effects, decorative details, and layers of lacquer and varnish. 4. Coat the back of the picture completely, using glue or other decoupage medium. Put a thin layer of glue in the area where you are placing the picture. 5. Place the picture on the glue don t be afraid to get a little messy!
Decoupage refers to the craft of decorating wooden furniture and other household objects with the use of cut-out pictures. This form of art started during the 18th century with the aim of imitating the attractive hand-painted lacquer products that were imported from Asia. It is fairly easy to decoupage an item and achieve an elegant look. Decoupage is commonly regarded as a children’s craft, but in the early days, it was popular among the gentility. Young ladies were encouraged to perform this craft on household objects, and even Lord Byron was said to engage in this activity.
Decoupage is the art of decorating surfaces by applying cutouts and other decorative items (such as paper) and then coating them with several layers of finish or glue. 
3D decoupage (sometimes also referred to simply as decoupage) is the art of creating a 3D image by cutting out elements of varying sizes from a series of identical images and layering them on top of each other, usually with adhesive foam spacers between each layer to give the image more depth. The word decoupage comes from Middle French decouper, meaning to cut out or cut from something. The origin of decoupage is thought to be East Siberian tomb art. Nomadic tribes used cut out felts to decorate the tombs of their deceased. From Siberia, the practice came to China, and by the 12th century, cut out paper was being used to decorate lanterns, windows, boxes and other objects
• DECOUPAGE (noun). The noun DECOUPAGE has 2 senses: 1. art produced by decorating a surface with cutouts and then coating it with several layers of varnish or lacquer. 2. the art of decorating a surface with shapes or pictures and then coating it with vanish or lacquer. Familiarity information: DECOUPAGE used as a noun is rare. Dictionary entry details.
Decoupaged Boxes. Decoupage is artistic sleight of hand. What appears to be a painted design is actually paper, glued in place. What looks like lacquer is just a few coats of clear varnish, and what begins as an unremarkable piece of furniture becomes a bold, modern design statement. 
Decoupage (or decoupage) découpage is the art of decorating an object by gluing colored paper cutouts onto it in combination with special paint, effects gold leaf and so. on The word decoupage comes from Middle French decouper, meaning to cut out or cut from something. The origin of decoupage is thought to be East Siberian tomb art. Nomadic tribes used cut out felts to decorate the tombs of their deceased. From Siberia, the practice came to China, and by the 12th century, cut out paper was being used to decorate lanterns, windows, boxes and other objects.
Decoupage (or decoupage) découpage is the art of decorating an object by gluing colored paper cutouts onto it in combination with special paint, effects gold leaf and so. On commonly an object like a small box or an item of furniture is covered by cutouts from magazines or from-purpose manufactured. papers The word decoupage comes from Middle French decouper, meaning to cut out or cut from something. The origin of decoupage is thought to be East Siberian tomb art. Nomadic tribes used cut out felts to decorate the tombs of their deceased. From Siberia, the practice came to China, and by the 12th century, cut out paper was being used to decorate lanterns, windows, boxes and other objects.
Definition of DECOUPAGE. 1. : the art of decorating surfaces by applying cutouts (as of paper) and then coating with usually several layers of finish (as lacquer or varnish). 2. : work produced by decoupage. — decoupage or decoupage découpage transitive. verb