Multipolar neurons are the most common type of neuron. They are located in the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord) and in autonomic ganglia. Multipolar neurons have more than two processes emanating from the neuron cell body.  Fig. 1. Schematic drawing of bipolar, unipolar, and multipolar neurons. 3. Schematic drawing of a ventral horn SE multipolar neuron. A number of dendrites and one axon emanate from the cell body. The axon has few if any branches until its termination in a profusion of branches. The axon is specialized for conducting excitation from the input region to the output region of the neuron.
A multipolar neuron (or multipolar neurone) is a type of neuron that possesses a single (usually long) axon and many dendrite s, allowing for the integration of a great deal of information from other neurons. These dendritic branches can also emerge from the nerve cell body. Answers: In vertebrates, the term motor neuron (or motoneuron) classically applies to neurons located in the central nervous system (CNS) that project their axons outside the CNS and directly or indirectly control muscles. Motor neuron is often synonymous with efferent neuron, primary neuron, or alpha motor neuron.
Neurons & the Nervous System. The human nervous system consists of billions of nerve cells (or neurons)plus supporting (neuroglial) cells. Neurons are able to respond to stimuli (such as touch, sound, light, and so on), conduct impulses, and communicate with each other (and with other types of cells like muscle cells). The nucleus of a neuron is located in the cell body. Extending out from the cell body are processes called dendrites and axons. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A multipolar neuron (or multipolar neurone) is a type of neuron that possesses a single (usually long) axon and many dendrites, allowing for the integration of a great deal of information from other neurons. These dendritic branches can also emerge from the nerve cell body. 
Somatic efferent neurons are motor neurons that conduct impulses from the spinal cord to skeletal muscles. These neurons are multipolar neurons, with cell bodies located in the gray matter of the spinal cord. Somatic efferent neurons leave the spinal cord through the ventral root of spinal nerves. Visceral afferent neurons are sensory neurons that conduct impulses initiated in receptors in smooth muscle & cardiac muscle. It always takes two visceral efferent neurons to conduct an impulse from the spinal cord (or brain, in some cases) to a muscle or gland: 1  Visceral efferent 1 (also called the preganglionic neuron) is a multipolar neuron that begins in the gray matter of the spinal cord, which is where its cell body is located.
The remaining processes are dendrites. Together, the cell body and dendrites form the receptive zone of multipolar neurons. The dendrites and their branches provide additional surface area for the axons of other neurons to approach and form synapses. 2. Multipolar neurons differ in size and shape depending on their location and function. This variation can be seen in some of the neurons that control body movements. Pyramidal cells (upper motor neurons) originate in the motor cortex of the brain and carry action potentials to the spinal cord.
1 Motor (or efferent) neurons: send information AWAY from the central nervous system to muscles or glands. 2  Interneurons: send information between sensory neurons and motor neurons. 3  Most interneurons are located in the central nervous system. 
Unipolar neuron. A unipolar neuron is a type of neuron in which only one protoplasmic process (neurite) extends from the cell body. Most neurons are multipolar, generating several dendrites and an axon and there are also many bipolar neurons. 
The location of dendrite and axon: If dendrite and axon emerge from same process, the neuron is unipolar. If dendrite and a single axon emerge from opposite ends of the so … ma, the neuron is bipolar. If the neuron has more than 2 dendrite it is called multipolar. 