A Duty to Manage Asbestos in non-domestic premises has been included in the Control of Asbestos Regulations 2012. Most surveys are carried out to produce an Asbestos Register for a property for compliance or because it is undergoing undergoing demolition or refurbishment. However, it is good practice to have an Asbestos Survey carried out so you can be absolutely sure whether asbestos is present or not. If you are carrying out a major refurbishment or demolition project, you will require a Demolition / Re-furbishment Asbestos Survey which is much more detailed and intrusive.
An Asbestos Management Survey is an effective way to help you manage asbestos in your premises by providing accurate information about the location, amount and type of any asbestos-containing materials (ACMs). However, it is good practice to have an Asbestos Survey carried out so you can be absolutely sure whether asbestos is present or not. If you are carrying out a major refurbishment or demolition project, you will require a Demolition / Re-furbishment Asbestos Survey which is much more detailed and intrusive.
What you must do. If you have a lease or contract, check who is responsible for asbestos. Find out where the asbestos is (you’ll probably need an external accredited surveyor to carry out an asbestos survey). Have the material analysed and keep a record of what you find. Carry out a health and safety risk assessment. 
If you own or have responsibility for a non-domestic property (such as a shop, office or industrial property) anywhere in the UK, built pre-2000, then you are required to have an asbestos management survey in place at all times. Management surveys (Formerly type 2 asbestos surveys). This is the core survey to locate, as far as reasonably practicable, the presence and extent of any suspected ACMs, in order to assess their condition and to provide a risk assessment on any disturbance. This is a minimally intrusive survey.
State law requires building owners to obtain an Asbestos Survey when acquiring a building permit for commercial remodeling or demolition. The Asbestos Survey or Asbestos Inspection is used to promote public health by assessing and quantifying the presence of asbestos containing building materials in a public building. TEXAS LEGISLATURE PASSES ASBESTOS SURVEY LAW-Senate Bill 509. The 2002 bill requires a licensed Asbestos Survey prior to obtaining a permit for the renovation or demolition of a public or commercial building. The survey must be prepared by a licensed professional and meet strict state guidelines
Refurbishment and demolition surveys (Formerly type 3 asbestos surveys). This type of survey is required before any refurbishment or demolition work is carried out to a building. It is used to locate and describe, as far as reasonably practicable, all ACMs within the building or area. Management surveys (Formerly type 2 asbestos surveys). This is the core survey to locate, as far as reasonably practicable, the presence and extent of any suspected ACMs, in order to assess their condition and to provide a risk assessment on any disturbance. This is a minimally intrusive survey.
If your residence is used for commercial purposes, such as a rental, or home office, or you bring in a contractor, other workers, or volunteers, to do work that disturbs asbestos containing materials, the asbestos removal requirements apply. If you need asbestos assistance, call 360-902-5514. 
Tell the surveyor you want a refurbishment/demolition survey. The refurbishment / demolition survey is required where the premises, or part of it, need upgrading, refurbishment or demolition. The survey does not need a record of the condition of asbestos-containing materials (ACM). Normally, a surveyor is needed for refurbishment / demolition surveys. A Refurbishment / demolition survey aims to ensure that: 1  nobody will be harmed by work on.