1 Localized lymphadenopathy: due to localized spot of infection e.g., an infected spot on the scalp will cause lymph nodes in the neck on that same side to swell up. 2  Generalized lymphadenopathy: due to a systemic infection of the body e.g., influenza or secondary syphilis. Inflammation of the lymphatic vessels is also known as lymphangitis. Infectious lymphadenitides affecting lymph nodes in the neck are often called scrofula. The term comes from the word lymph and a combination of the Greek words αδένας, adenas (gland) and παθεία, patheia (act of suffering or disease).
The most common cause of swollen lymph nodes is an infection, particularly a viral infection, such as the common cold. However, there are other types of infections, including parasitic and bacterial, and other possible causes of swollen lymph nodes. They include: 
Common Underlying Causes of Neck Lumps. An enlarged lymph node is the most common cause of a neck lump. Lymph nodes contain cells that help your body fight off infections and attack malignant cells (cancer). When you’re sick, your lymph nodes can become enlarged to help fight the infection. A lump in the neck is also called a neck mass. Neck lumps or masses can be large and visible, or they can be very small. Most neck lumps are benign (noncancerous) and not harmful. But a neck lump can also be a sign of a serious condition, such as an infection or a cancerous growth.
Neck Masses Due to Infection. The vast majority of infectious causes of neck masses is due lymphadenitis, otherwise known as inflamed lymph nodes due to infection somewhere else in the head and neck region. Lymphadenitis can occur ANYWHERE in the neck. If the lymphadenitis gets bad enough, a neck mass may turn into a neck abscess. 
Infections. Infections are the most common causes of swollen lymph nodes. Common infectious causes of swollen lymph nodes are viral, bacterial, parasites, and fungal. The most common cause of swollen lymph nodes is viral upper respiratory infections such as the common cold. 
Common causes of lymphadenopathy are infection, autoimmune disease, or malignancy. Inflammation as a cause of lymph node enlargement is known as lymphadenitis. In practice, the distinction between lymphadenopathy and lymphadenitis is rarely made. Inflammation of the lymphatic vessels is also known as lymphangitis. Infectious lymphadenitides affecting lymph nodes in the neck are often called scrofula. The term comes from the word lymph and a combination of the Greek words αδένας, adenas (gland) and παθεία, patheia (act of suffering or disease).
Neck lumps have many possible causes, including trauma, infection, inflammatory disease, benign cysts and tumors, and cancer. A common cause of lumps in the neck is lymph node swelling due to an infectious process, such as strep throat. 
Causes of swollen lymph nodes. There are many causes for swollen lymph nodes. Most commonly, lymph nodes become swollen due to an infection, such as a viral upper respiratory infection like the common cold. Sometimes, lymph node swelling is caused by an underlying condition. 
Neck. Growths in the neck can be divided into the following categories: 1) Lymph nodes, 2) Thyroid, 3) Salivary Glands and 4) Other. The other category includes many different benign and malignant solid tumors as well as infectious abscesses which can originate from primary infections of the throat or the teeth. Lymph nodes can also swell due to the presence of cancer. For cancers of the head and neck like throat or larynx (voice box) cancer, the lymph nodes of the neck are the first region that it spreads to. Lymphoma, which is a cancer of the immune system, also may lead to lymph node enlargement