In late January, 1968, during the lunar new year (or “Tet”) holiday, North Vietnamese and communist Viet Cong forces launched a coordinated attack against a number of targets in South Vietnam. The U.S. and South Vietnamese militaries sustained heavy losses before finally repelling the communist assault.
The combined forces of the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese Regular Army (NVA), about 85,000 strong, launched a major offensive throughout South Vietnam. The attacks began on January 31, 1968, the first day of the Lunar New Year, Vietnam's most important holiday.
The fighting that made up the Tet Offensive lasted for several days in some South Vietnamese cities. This map shows the route taken by North Vietnamese troops. During the Buddhist holiday of Tet, over 80,000 Vietcong troops emerged from their tunnels and attacked nearly every major metropolitan center in South Vietnam.
The idea was for the North Vietnamese Army (NVA) and the Viet Cong fighters in South Vietnam to make attacks on every major city in South Vietnam simultaneously on the eve of … the Vietnamese New Year, Nguyen Tet (January 30, 1968).
As the celebration of the lunar new year, Tet was the most important holiday on the Vietnamese calendar. In previous years, the holiday had been the occasion for an informal truce in South Vietnam’s long-running conflict with North Vietnam and their Communist southern allies, derisively known as Viet Cong.
The Tet Offensive was a military campaign during the Vietnam War that began on January 31, 1968 by the forces of the National Liberation Front for South Vietnam. The purpose w … as to displace the invading army presently stationed in South Vietnam and regain control of the country by the Vietnamese.
Tet Offensive. The Tet Offensive was a series of surprise attacks by the Vietcong (rebel forces sponsored by North Vietnam) and North Vietnamese forces, on scores of cities, towns, and hamlets throughout South Vietnam. It was considered to be a turning point in the Vietnam War.
The Tet Offensive was a turning point in the Vietnam War (1954-75). The assault began during Tet, a festival of the lunar new year, on January 30, 1968.
The Tet Offensive was a series of surprise attacks by the Vietcong (rebel forces sponsored by North Vietnam) and North Vietnamese forces, on scores of cities, towns, and hamlets throughout South Vietnam.