A purine is a heterocyclic aromatic organic compound. It consists of a pyrimidine ring fused to an imidazole ring. Purines, which include substituted purines and their tautomers, are the most widely occurring nitrogen-containing heterocycle in nature. Purines and pyrimidines make up the two groups of nitrogenous bases, including the two groups of nucleotide bases.
Foods that contain purines. Because uric acid is formed from the breakdown of purines, low-purine diets are often used to help treat conditions like gout in which excessive uric acid is deposited in the tissues of the body. A 3.5 ounce serving of some foods, all by itself, can contain up to 1,000 milligrams of purines. These foods include anchovies, herring, kidney, liver, mackerel, meat extracts, mincemeat, mussels, sardines, and yeast. You'll notice that only of these foods-liver-is included amongst the World's Healthiest Foods
A low-purine diet is an eating plan that limits foods that contain purine. Purines are a natural substance found in some foods. When your body digests purine, a waste product called uric (say: “yur-ick”) acid is produced. A buildup of uric acid crystals in the joints can cause a type of arthritis known as gout. Purines are found in many healthy foods. The purpose of a low-purine diet is not to completely avoid purines. Instead, the goals are to limit and monitor how much purine is in the food you eat, and to learn how your body responds when you eat different
Purines (specific chemical compounds found in some foods) are broken down into uric acid. A diet rich in purines from certain sources can raise uric acid levels in the body, which sometimes leads to gout. Meat and seafood may increase your risk of gout. Dairy products may lower your risk.
Foods that contain purines. Because uric acid is formed from the breakdown of purines, low-purine diets are often used to help treat conditions like gout in which excessive uric acid is deposited in the tissues of the body.
Low-Purine Diet. Purines (PYUR-eenz) are found in many foods, especially organ meats, anchovies, mackerel, and sardines. Purines make up 15 percent of the uric acid found in the body. Too much uric acid can lead to problems, including kidney stones and gout. Avoid high-purine foods. See attached lists. Avoid or limit alcohol. Alcohol increases purine production, leading to higher uric acid levels in your blood and urine. Limit meat to 3 ounces per meal. Limit high-fat foods such as salad dressings, ice cream, fried foods, gravies, and dressings.
A relatively small number of foods, however, contain concentrated amounts of purines. For the most part, these high-purine foods are also high-protein foods, and they include organ meats like kidney, fish like mackerel, herring, sardines and mussels, and also yeast. A 3.5 ounce serving of some foods, all by itself, can contain up to 1,000 milligrams of purines. These foods include anchovies, herring, kidney, liver, mackerel, meat extracts, mincemeat, mussels, sardines, and yeast. You'll notice that only of these foods-liver-is included amongst the World's Healthiest Foods
A relatively small number of foods, however, contain concentrated amounts of purines. For the most part, these high-purine foods are also high-protein foods, and they include organ meats like kidney, fish like mackerel, herring, sardines and mussels, and also yeast. Because uric acid is formed from the breakdown of purines, low-purine diets are often used to help treat conditions like gout in which excessive uric acid is deposited in the tissues of the body.
Dairy foods (which can contain purines) actually appear to lower our risk of gout. In summary, this epidemiological research (on tens of thousands of men and women) makes it clear that all purine-containing foods are not the same, and that plant purines are far safer than meat and fish purines in terms of gout risk. A 3.5 ounce serving of some foods, all by itself, can contain up to 1,000 milligrams of purines. These foods include anchovies, herring, kidney, liver, mackerel, meat extracts, mincemeat, mussels, sardines, and yeast. You'll notice that only of these foods-liver-is included amongst the World's Healthiest Foods