Obsidian is a naturally occurring volcanic glass formed as an extrusive igneous rock. It is produced when felsic lava extruded from a volcano cools rapidly with minimum crystal growth. Obsidian can be found in locations which have experienced rhyolitic eruptions. It can be found in Argentina, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Australia, Canada, Chile, Georgia, Greece, El Salvador, Guatemala, Iceland, Italy, Japan, Kenya, Mexico, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Scotland, Turkey and the United States.
Obsidian is used for protection, removing negativity, and many more things in crystal healing and energy work. Learn more about its metaphysical properties and healing lore. Alternate Names or Spellings for Obsidian: Glass Agate, Glassy Lava, Xaga, Royal Agate (a mottled obsidian). Obsidian is a natural, volcanic glass. Obsidian is a very protective stone, and is excellent for removing negativity. It is also excellent protection against psychic attacks. In particular obsidian protects the gentle from abuse, and is used to cut attachment cords to release one. It is a very grounding stone, and very healing
Metaphysical : Obsidian is volcanic lava cooled quickly. It is a natural glass. A stone of protection, is was probably one the first stones to be used for arrowheads and knives. A stone of Honesty, Sincerity and Truth, Obsidian will bring out the Warrior spirit in you.
Obsidian Gemstone meaning. With its glassy luster, obsidian is a distinctive stone. Obsidian is formed as lava from volcanic eruptions cools within the earth. The speed at which it cools prevents crystallization and the rock forms as solid volcanic glass. 
Black is the most common color of obsidian, although it can also often be found in shades of brown and green. If trace elements are present in the rock, it might also take on rarer shades, such as red, orange, yellow, or blue. Obsidian can be found all over the world in areas with volcanic activity. For example, significant deposits of obsidian can be found in the United States, Canada, Mexico, Guatemala, Argentina, Chile, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Iceland, Russia, New Zealand, Japan, and Kenya. 
Black Obsidian Stone is a powerful cleanser of psychic smog created within your aura, and is a strong psychic protection stone. It has powerful metaphysical properties that will shield you against negativity, and the energy of these stones may stimulate the gift of prophecy. Obsidian rock forms from molten lava that cooled very quickly and had no time to form into glass. It is said to be a type of volcanic glass, and is found in a number of places worldwide. There are a number of different variations of this stone, and it comes in a range of types and colors.
About Snowflake Obsidian. Snowflake Obsidian is both an igneous rock and a natural glass. This rock-glass is formed when lava cools with incredible rapidity and minimum crystallization. When this occurs, the lava gradually transforms into a black glass
that may be green and purple, brown, blue and green. Snowflake Obsidian is the black and white stone, in the photo gallery further down the page, and Apache Tears are also in this family, and have some excellent qualities. It has an excellent spiritual grounding vibration and also has a strong psychic protection energy. Obsidian rock forms from molten lava that cooled very quickly and had no time to form into glass. It is said to be a type of volcanic glass, and is found in a number of places worldwide. There are a number of different variations of this stone, and it comes in a range of types and colors.
Obsidian Rock. Obsidian rock is actually a type of glass that formed when molten lava cooled so quickly, there was not time for any crystals to form. The actual composition of the rock is dependent on what minerals, gases, and such were in the immediate area when the lava cooled. 