Description: Northern flying squirrels (Glaucomys sabrinus) and southern flying squirrels (Glaucomys volans) are the only two native flying squirrel species found in North America. 
Ohio Division of Wildlife. This species description of the fox squirrel provides a description of the fox squirrel, a discussion of habitat requirements, reproduction, and food. Mississippi State University Extension Service. This publication provides a history and physical description of the gray squirrel and fox squirrel, along with how to distinguish between the two. It gives a description of the tree squirrel’s mating habits, parasites, diseases and predators.
Adaptation. One adaptation that is extremely beneficial to a squirrel's lifestyle is the anatomy of their back legs. Squirrels are able to rotate their hind feet which allows them to descend down a tree head first. This is helpful for avoiding predation as well as reaching for food and traveling from tree to tree. 
Flying squirrels are a third, adaptable type of squirrel. They live something like birds do, in nests or tree holes, and although they do not fly, they can really move across the sky. Flying squirrels glide, extending their arms and legs and coasting through the air from one tree to another. Flaps of skin connecting limbs to body provide a winglike surface. More than 200 squirrel species live all over the world, with the notable exception of Australia. The tiniest squirrel is the aptly named African pygmy squirrel—only five inches (thirteen centimeters) long from nose to tail.
Gray squirrels predominantly feed on tree nuts, but will also eat flowers, seeds, fungi, insects and even the occasional bird eggs. In addition to serving as an important prey species, the nut storing tendencies of the gray squirrel help to disperse tree seeds within their habitat. These small, tree-dwelling rodents fit easily into a number of habitats due to their remarkable adaptability. Gray squirrels are easily recognized by their gray coat (varying from yellowish gray to pure silver, though different color morphs exist), ruffed tail and cream-colored underbelly.
The Habitat of the Grey Squirrel. Gray squirrels thrive in many different habitats. Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Gray squirrels (Sciurus carolinensis) are a common sight throughout much of the eastern United States and Canada. These small, tree-dwelling rodents fit easily into a number of habitats due to their remarkable adaptability. Gray squirrels are easily recognized by their gray coat (varying from yellowish gray to pure silver, though different color morphs exist), ruffed tail and cream-colored underbelly.
eastern fox squirrel. Both of these squirrels are found throughout the state with gray squirrel. populations being higher. They inhabit both hardwood and coniferous forests. Mature, hardwood and mixed pine-. hardwood forests and longleaf pine forests offer ideal habitats. Mississippi State University Extension Service. This publication provides a history and physical description of the gray squirrel and fox squirrel, along with how to distinguish between the two. It gives a description of the tree squirrel’s mating habits, parasites, diseases and predators.
The structural adaptations of the flying squirrel has developed a good sense of balance, sail-like fur skin membrane that extends from the wrists to ankles, delicate wrist bones that control this membrane, allowing the squirrel to steer, and a fluffy tail that balances out and stabilizes the flight. 
Douglas Squirrel. Douglas Squirrel (Tamiasciurus douglasii). also known as the Pine Squirrel and the Chickaree. Species Code: TADO. Description: The upper areas of the Douglas Squirrel's body is either reddish gray or brownish gray. This color eventually fades into chestnut-brown on the middle of the squirrel's back. The squirrel turns into a grayer shade in winter.
Squirrels are familiar to almost everyone. More than 200 squirrel species live all over the world, with the notable exception of Australia. The tiniest squirrel is the aptly named African pygmy squirrel—only five inches (thirteen centimeters) long from nose to tail. Others reach sizes shocking to those who are only familiar with common tree squirrels