Be the first to review this Drug. Niacin, also called nicotinic acid, is a B vitamin (vitamin B3). It occurs naturally in plants and animals, and is also added to many foods as a vitamin supplement. Niacin is also present in many multiple vitamins and nutritional supplements. 
Niacin is sometimes prescribed by doctors for patients who have high cholesterol or triglycerides, conditions that may increase the risk of heart disease. When higher doses of niacin are prescribed, side effects may occur. The most uncomfortable side effect may be the flush, a reaction that can cause the skin to burn or get warm, red and itchy.
Niacin is a water-soluble B vitamin vitamin B3 - and the common name for 2 very different compounds: nicotinic acid and niacinamide. High doses of niacin (as nicotinic acid) can lower cholesterol levels (although the exact mechanism of action is still not known). However, niacin is also made in the form of niacinamide-a form of vitamin B3 which, deliberately, is manufactured so that it will NOT cause dilation of the blood vessels-the flush so well known when using plain niacin.
Niacin (also known as vitamin B3 or nicotinic acid) is an organic compound with the formula C 6H 5NO 2 and, depending on the definition used, one of the 20 to 80 essential human nutrients. Niacin cannot be directly converted to nicotinamide, but both compounds are precursors of the coenzymes nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADP) in vivo. NAD converts to NADP by phosphorylation in the presence of the enzyme NAD+ kinase.
Flush Symptoms. When higher doses of niacin are prescribed, side effects may occur. The most uncomfortable side effect may be the flush, a reaction that can cause the skin to burn or get warm, red and itchy. A niacin flush can resemble a sunburn and may affect the head, face, neck, chest, shoulders and back
A. Niacin is a B vitamin and is sometimes used as a prescription medication to treat high cholesterol. It can cause flushing as a side effect, which can be bothersome to some people. If you have been prescribed niacin, there are formulations that can help prevent flushing. Talk to your doctor or pharmacist. 
High doses (50 mg or more) of niacin can cause side effects. The most common side effect is called niacin flush, which is a burning, tingling sensation in the face and chest, and red or flushed skin. Taking an aspirin 30 minutes prior to the niacin may help reduce this symptom.
Niacin, also called nicotinic acid, is a B vitamin (vitamin B3) used in vitamin supplements and in combination with prescription drugs. It is most often used to prevent cardiovascular disease. Niacin is used as a vitamin supplement to treat a lack of natural niacin in the body, to lower the risk of heart attack in people with high cholesterol who have already had a heart attack, and to treat coronary artery disease. Niacin is sold by prescription and over-the-counter OTC).
Niacin is a B vitamin, B 3. Nature Made ® Flush Free Niacin 500 mg uses a type of Niacin that does not have the side effects of flushing commonly associated with some Niacin supplements. * Niacin helps support general blood vessel and circulatory health. † Nature Made Flush Free Niacin comes in an easy to swallow softgel.
Niacin very predictably causes flushing. Flushing is a warm, tingling, itching feeling of the skin accompanied by redness of the skin. It occurs most commonly in the face and the trunk, although it can occur from head to toe. 