Amebic liver abscesses are the most common form of extraintestinal amebiasis. The onset of hepatic symptoms can be rapid or gradual. Hepatic infections are characterized by hepatomegaly, liver tenderness, pain in the upper right quadrant, fever and anorexia. 
CAUSES OF AMEBIASIS: Amebiasis is an infection caused by the protozoal organism E histolytica, which causes colitis and liver abscess. Amebiasis occurs when a person swallows microscopic cysts containing the parasites. The cysts may be in contaminated food or water. AMEBIASIS: MEANING: Amebiasis is a disease which is caused by amoeba. An amoeba is a single-celled microscopic organism that has no solid body structure. Amebiasis is contracted by consuming contaminated food or water containing the cyst stage of the parasite.
What are the symptoms of amebiasis. On average, about one in 10 people who are infected with E. histolytica becomes sick from the infection. The symptoms often are quite mild and can include loose stools, stomach pain, and stomach cramping. Amebic dysentery is a severe form of amebiasis associated with stomach pain, bloody stools, and fever. Rarely, E. histolytica invades the liver and forms an abscess. Even less commonly, it spreads to other parts of the body, such as the lungs or brain. 
Amebiasis is infection with Entamoeba histolytica. It is commonly asymptomatic, but symptoms ranging from mild diarrhea to severe dysentery may occur. Extraintestinal infections include liver abscesses. Diagnosis is by identifying E. histolytica in stool specimens or by serologic tests. 
Amebiasis is a disease caused by Entamoeba histolytica, a unicellular eukaryotic parasite. E. histolytica belongs to thegenus Entamoeba, along with 5 other parasites: E. coli, E. hartamanni, E. dispar, E. gingivalis, and E. polecki. However, only E. histolytica causes Amebiasis. Many carriers of Amebiasis have no symptoms, and eventually clear the infection without disease. However, 4-10% of asymptomatic carriers develop symptomatic infections within 1 year. For this reason, it is strongly suggested these asymptomatic individuals obtain treatment.
The most common form of extraintestinal amebiasis is amebic abscess of the liver. In the United States, amebic liver abscesses occur most frequently in young Hispanic adults. An amebic liver abscess can result from direct infection of the liver by E. histolytica or as a complication of intestinal amebiasis. Patients with an amebic abscess of the liver complain of pain in the chest or abdomen, fever, nausea, and tenderness on the right side directly above the liver. Amebiasis is an infectious disease caused by a parasitic one-celled microorganism (protozoan) called Entamoeba histolytica. Persons with amebiasis may experience a wide range of symptoms, including diarrhea, fever, and cramps. The disease may also affect the intestines, liver, or other parts of the body
Amoebiasis, also known as amebiasis or entamoebiasis, is an infection caused by any of the amoebas of the Entamoeba group. Symptoms are most common upon infection by Entamoeba histolytica. Amoebiasis can present with no, mild, or severe symptoms. Symptoms may include abdominal pain, mild diarrhoea, bloody diarrhea or severe colitis with tissue death and perforation. This last complication may cause peritonitis. 
Symptoms of Amebiasis. Many infected people have few or no symptoms. Amebiasis symptoms that may occur include. Increased gas (flatulence). Cramping abdominal pain. Intermittent diarrhea, constipation, or both. In severe cases, the abdomen is tender when touched, and the stool contains mucus and blood. The person may also have a fever. In some people, the amebas spread to the liver where they can cause an abscess. Symptoms include fever, sweats, chills, weakness, nausea, vomiting, weight loss, and pain or discomfort in the upper right part of the abdomen over the liver.
Introduction. Dysentery is an infection of the intestines that causes diarrhoea containing blood or mucus. Other symptoms of dysentery can include: 1  painful stomach cramps. 2  nausea or vomiting. 3  a high temperature (fever) of 38C (100.4F) or above, or 37.5C (99.5F) or above in children under five. 