Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport is situated 16km (10 miles) south of Atlanta. Address: Atlanta. 6000 North Terminal Parkway Suite 4000. Georgia 30320. United States. Dialling Code: +1. Telephone: (404) 530 7300 and (800) 897 1910.
Interstates 85, 285, 75 and 20 provide direct access to Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport from various areas of Georgia and southeast USA.
Coach. Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport is served by Greyhound Flightlink buses (tel: 1 888 287 6359; www.greyhound.com), which depart daily for a number of cities and states from the lower level of the North Terminal and from the arrivals level of the international area.
There are a number of hotels near Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport. Shuttle buses connect all major hotels in the area-courtesy telephones can be used in the baggage reclaim and ground transportation areas to request the shuttles or to book accommodation.
Atlanta isn’t a walking city. If you’re coming here on business, you’ll need a car to get around. You’ll find what you want to drive at Avis Car Rental, just 2.2 miles from Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport. Our ATL car rental location offers a range of compact, luxury, SUV and hybrid vehicles, as well as quality upgrades like a GPS navigation system to make being on time easier.
Sixt at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport is located in the rental car center. From your domestic arrival terminal, take the ATL SkyTrain to the rental car center. From your international arrival terminal please proceed to the rental car center shuttle bus.
Coach: Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport is served by Greyhound Flightlink buses (tel: +1 888 287 6359; www.greyhound.com), which depart daily for a number of cities and states from the lower level of the North Terminal and from the arrivals level of the international area.
Sixt makes car rental at the Atlanta Hartsfield International Airport easy. We offer a range of vehicles from some of the best car manufacturers in the world. In our rent a car fleet is a large selection of compact cars and sedans, convertibles, SUVs and others for you to choose from.