1 Wrap sides of foil inward over salmon then fold in top and bottom of foil to enclose. 2  Place foil pouches in a single layer on a baking sheet. 3  Bake in preheated oven until salmon is cooked through, about 25 - 30 minutes. 4  Unwrap and serve warm. 1 Top each with about 2 sprigs dill and 2 lemon slices (if using fresh thyme or rosemary use about 3/4 tsp per each if using parsley use 1 1/2 tsp). 2  Wrap sides of foil inward over salmon then fold in top and bottom of foil to enclose. 3  Place foil pouches in a single layer on a baking sheet.
Step 2. Drizzle 1 to 2 tbsp. of olive oil on top of the salmon while in the foil. Season as you like with salt, pepper, basil, oregano, garlic or your favorite spices. You can also bake vegetables such as onions, squash and tomatoes inside the foil with the salmon for a richer flavor. Step 1. Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Place portions of salmon in the middle of a square piece of foil. Be sure to use enough aluminum foil to wrap around the entire piece of salmon.
1 Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Line a baking sheet with foil. 2  In a small bowl, whisk together honey, garlic, olive oil, white wine vinegar, thyme, salt and pepper, to taste. 3  Place salmon onto prepared baking sheet and fold up all 4 sides of the foil. Instructions. 1  Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Line a baking sheet with foil. 2  In a small bowl, whisk together honey, garlic, olive oil, white wine vinegar, thyme, salt and pepper, to taste. 3  Place salmon onto prepared baking sheet and fold up all 4 sides of the foil.
Let’s talk about the lemon garlic butter sauce that’s going to make this baked salmon in foil recipe your favorite way to eat fish. I call it the quick 2-2-2. That’s 2 tablespoons lemon juice, 2 cloves of minced garlic, and 2 tablespoons of butter for 1- 1 1/4 pound of salmon. Start by heating the lemon juice and minced garlic in a saucepan. When the lemon juice has reduced to about 1 tablespoon, add in 1 tablespoon of cold, cubed butter.
1 Preheat oven to 275°F. Line a rimmed baking sheet with aluminum foil. 2  Brush with 1/2 tablespoon oil. 3  Place salmon fillets, skin side down, on prepared baking sheet. 4  Mix remaining oil, thyme, and lemon zest in a small bowl. 5  Spread thyme mixture over salmon fillets, dividing equally. 6  Season with salt and pepper. 
Bake Until Opaque and Flaky. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F for fillets or 350 degrees F for a dressed fish. You can bake the fillets at a lower temperature, if desired, but remember to increase the cooking time. Bake salmon fillets or steaks, uncovered, for 4 to 6 minutes per 1/2-inch thickness. For a dressed salmon, bake for 6 to 9 minutes per 8 ounces of fish. To test for doneness, insert a fork into the salmon and gently twist
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Sprinkle salmon with 2 teaspoons olive oil, salt, and pepper. Stir the tomatoes, shallots, 2 tablespoons of oil, lemon juice, oregano, thyme, salt and pepper in a medium bowl to blend. Place a salmon fillet, oiled side down, atop a sheet of foil. Wrap the ends of the foil to form a spiral shape.
1 Drizzle top of each salmon fillet with 1 tsp of the olive oil mixture and season top with salt and pepper to taste. 2  Top each with about 2 sprigs dill and 2 lemon slices (if using fresh thyme or rosemary use about 3/4 tsp per each if using parsley use 1 1/2 tsp). 1 Top each with about 2 sprigs dill and 2 lemon slices (if using fresh thyme or rosemary use about 3/4 tsp per each if using parsley use 1 1/2 tsp). 2  Wrap sides of foil inward over salmon then fold in top and bottom of foil to enclose. 3  Place foil pouches in a single layer on a baking sheet.