To stay adequately hydrated, you should drink approximately three quarts (96 ounces) of water a day. For weight loss, you should drink an additional 8 ounces of water for every 25 pounds you are over your ideal body weight. 
1 Multiply by 2/3: Next you want to multiple your weight by 2/3 (or 67%) to determine how much water to drink daily. 2  For example, if you weighed 175 pounds you would multiple that by 2/3 and learn you should be drinking about 117 ounces of water every day. 1 Drink 2 cups (16 oz) of water before every meal: Science has proven that drinking 2 cups of water before every meal helps you to eat less during meal time and lose weight. 2  If you do this three times daily-at breakfast, lunch, and dinner-you have already consumed 48 ounces of water.
So remember, half your body weight (pounds) in ounces is how much water you should be drinking each day, and if you're exercising and sweating profusely, add another liter of water with half a teaspoon of sea salt to ensure proper electrolyte replenishment. This is your bare minimum water requirement – what your body needs to function. The basic equation for determining this is by dividing your body weight in half. So, if you weigh 200 pounds, you would need 100 ounces of water per day if you're not doing anything strenuous. If you're working out, hiking, at a high altitude or outdoors a great deal, you're going to need to add to those 100 ounces. [Read: Tips on Hydration from Sports Dietitians.]. Why Dehydration Is Dangerous
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Drink 50% of your weight in ounces of water.Say you weigh around 135, you want to drink about 67 ounces of water a day.If you drink too much water you can get water intoxication so do the math,and keep being healthy. Replacing unhealthy high-calorie and/or high-sugar drinks with water will help you lose weight in the long run but it probably won't have a lot of immediate results. Your health should improve in general if you meet the 7-8 glass a day quota, but it should not have a significant effect on your weight.
As a general rule of thumb, men should consume 128 ounces of water daily, and women should consume 88 ounces, but this doesn't mean you need to drink this amount of water every day. Other beverages, as well as the moisture content of foods, also count toward your water intake. Drink 12 ounces of water two hours before a workout, and another 12 ounces 30 minutes before you begin. While you are exercising, you should drink 4 to 8 ounces every 15 minutes.
Exercise: If you exercise or engage in any activity that makes you sweat, you need to drink extra water to compensate for that fluid loss. Drink 12 ounces of water two hours before a workout, and another 12 ounces 30 minutes before you begin. While you are exercising, you should drink 4 to 8 ounces every 15 minutes. You should consume an additional 12 ounces within 30 minutes of the end of your workout
To better determine how much water you need each day, divide your body weight in half. The answer is the approximate number of water ounces you should drink daily. You should drink half of your body weight in ounces. If you weight 200 pounds, you should drink 100 ounces water (3.13 quarts, 2.98 liters or about 10-12 cups of water a day). If you weigh closer to 100 pounds you will need only about 50 ounces of water or about four 12-ounce glasses daily. Drink at least 1 liter of water for every 60 minutes of exercise. Drink more if it’s hot. During exercise, such as playing sport on a hot summer day, you can lose up to 2 liters per hour of fluid per hour. Water and a balance salt is your best bet to keep healthy and hydrated.
The most common answer of 8-10 glasses a day is not a bad answer. The real problem with it is that it is not a one-size-fits-all question. A good goal is to drink 1/2 ounce for every pound you weigh. So if you weigh 180 lbs you should drink 90 ounces of water each day … as a general rule. In reality your body needs more water than this per day. Fortunately, not all of our water consumption needs to come from drinking it. The amount of H20 you get per day (another general rule) should be about 125 ounces a day for men and about 90 ounces a day for women. This does not mean that you need to drink this much water. Our food is made up greatly of water
Drink at least the recommended amount of 64 ounces of water a day. Do not drink it all in one sitting, but instead have one cup of water at a time over the course of 9-10 water breaks. This is to replenish the water you lose throughout the day. Drink more water if you can; 64 ounces is the minimum. 