1 The annual average temperature in Copenhagen, Denmark is a little cool at 8.6 degrees Celsius (47.5 degrees Fahrenheit). 2  There is a variation of average monthly temperatures of 18 C (32.4 F) which is a slightly low range. Average Temperatures in Copenhagen, Denmark. 1  The annual average temperature in Copenhagen, Denmark is a little cool at 8.6 degrees Celsius (47.5 degrees Fahrenheit).
The average temperature high during the day during the summer months is around 20 degrees Celsius with a night time low of around 12 degrees Celsius. July and August are the warmest months of the years. Autumn. Autumn in Copenhagen starts in September and ends in November. The weather is still cooler and slightly drier than during the summer months with average daytime temperature highs of between 15 degrees Celsius and 7 degrees Celsius depending on the month. Winter. Winter comes to Copenhagen in December and ends in February. It is the coldest time of year in the city with temperatures having an average high of around 5 degrees Celsius over the winter period and an average low of -2 degrees Celsius. Copenhagen Yearly Weather Summary. Copenhagen has a mild and temperate climate with cool winters and mild summers that are brought about by the west winds that hit the city and the influence of the Gulf Stream current system. Copenhagen experiences four distinct seasons of spring, summer, autumn and winter.
Copenhagen: Annual Weather Averages. July is the hottest month in Copenhagen with an average temperature of 17°C (63°F) and the coldest is January at 0°C (32°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 13 in July. The wettest month is June with an average of 60mm of rain. 
Climate, Average Weather of Denmark. 1  Of the land area, 100% has a temperate/ mesothermal climate with significant precipitation in all seasons (Cf). 2  Of the population, 100% live in a temperate/ mesothermal climate with significant precipitation in all seasons (Cf). 1
In Denmark, January temperatures average between −2 °C (28 °F) and 4 °C (39 °F). Denmark's coldest month, however, is February, where the mean temperature is 0 °C (32 °F). The amount of hours of sunlight per day does increase during the month of February for Denmark, where they get seven to eight hours a day. Stockholm, Sweden has on average the warmest summer of the Nordic countries, with an average maximum temperature of 23 °C (73 °F) in July; Copenhagen, Oslo and Helsinki have an average July maximum temperature of 22 °C (72 °F).
Weather in Denmark. Monthly average temperatures for Copenhagen, Denmark in Fahrenheit. Photo Credit: © TM07 licensed to About.com. Denmark's weather is quite mild and the climate of Denmark is temperate, made mild by mostly west winds and by the seas surrounding Denmark almost entirely. Denmark 's mean temperature in the coldest month (February) is 0°C (32°F), and in the warmest (July) 17°C (63°F). Rain in Denmark comes on a regular basis year-round, there are no true dry periods.
Denmark doesn't have a lot of fluctuation between day and night temperatures, but wind gusts and changes in wind direction can quickly change the weather and temperatures. The wind is stronger in winter. Denmark 's mean temperature in the coldest month (February) is 0°C (32°F), and in the warmest (July) 17°C (63°F). Rain in Denmark comes on a regular basis year-round, there are no true dry periods. The annual rain fall in Denmark averages 61 cm (24 in) of precipitation
Temperature in Denmark. Denmark is in the North Temperate Zone and has an average temperature of 7.7˚C (46˚F). February tends to be the coldest month, with average temperatures of 0.0˚C (32˚F), whereas August tends to be the hottest month with average temperatures of 15.7˚C (60˚F). The best time to go swimming in the waters around Denmark is during the summer months of June to August, with average sea temperatures of between 17˚C (63˚F) and 22˚C (72˚F). In August, the average sea temperature can reach 25˚C (77˚F). Winter bathing is also a growing sub-culture.