A light bulb that produces light perceived as yellowish white will have a color temperature of around 2700K. As the color temperature increases to 3000K - 3500K, the color of the light appears less yellow and more white. When the color temperature is 5000K or higher the light produced appears bluish white. The color temperature of daylight varies, but is often in the 5000K to 7000K range
Color Temperature is a measurement that indicates the degree of color being emitted from a light source in degrees Kelvin. Interestingly enough, it is not a measure of temperature at all but rather a way to gauge the varying degrees of the visible color spectrum that emanates from a light source. Lower Kelvin numbers indicate that a light source appears more yellow; higher Kelvin numbers mean the light is whiter or bluer. Warm and cool lighting is an industry term that doesn't refer to the color temperature of lighting but rather the psychological characteristics of it.
In this installment EagleLight's LED University explains what color temperature means. LED color temperature measures the color of an LED light bulb. It defines the amount of pure white, yellow, red and blue in a light. Another way to think of the color temperature is how 'warm' or 'cool' is the white LED light bulb. Color temperature is measured in degrees Kelvin and is a measure of the part of the color spectrum that is found in light. A simple way to think about this is to compare the light from the sun from sunrise to sunset. It is measures in degrees Kelvin, where Kelvin is equal to the Celsius temperature minus 273 degrees. The Kelvin Color Temperature is the light emitted from a black body energy source at that given temperature. For more information, open pop-up here.
For example, on a very bright day, the color temperature of the light may be as high as 8,000 or 10,000K, but we do not perceive that we are bathing in blue light, although the light from the blue sky is the predominant source. 
The color temperature of a light source is the temperature of an ideal black-body radiator that radiates light of comparable hue to that of the light source. The correlated color temperature (Tcp) is the temperature of the Planckian radiator whose perceived color most closely resembles that of a given stimulus at the same brightness and under specified viewing conditions — CIE/IEC 17.4:1987, International Lighting Vocabulary (ISBN 3900734070).
Color temperature is a characteristic of visible light that has important applications in lighting, photography, videography, publishing, manufacturing, astrophysics and other fields. The temperature is conventionally stated in units of absolute temperature, known as Kelvin (K). Understanding the color of light, also known as Kelvin temperature (K), can make it easier for you to choose lighting that will give you the effect you want.
When referred to in the lighting industry, color temperature is measured in degrees Kelvin (°K) with warm light on the low end of the scale (incandescent light bulbs at 2700-3000K) and cool light on the higher end (daylight at 5500K). 
Color Temperature Chart. Color temperature is a description of the warmth or coolness of a light source. When a piece of metal is heated, the color of light it emits will change. This color begins as red in appearance and graduates to orange, yellow, white, and then blue-white to deeper colors of blue. The temperature of this metal is a physical measure in degrees Kelvin or absolute temperature.