Disney's Hollywood Studios (originally Disney-MGM Studios until 2008) is the third of four theme parks built at the Walt Disney World Resort in Bay Lake, Florida, near Orlando, Florida on May 1, 1989. Disney later filed a countersuit, claiming that MGM/UA and MGM Grand, Inc. had conspired to violate Disney's worldwide rights to the MGM name in the theme park business and that MGM/UA would harm Disney's reputation by building its own theme park at the MGM Grand hotel and casino in Las Vegas, Nevada.
Dewayne Bevil Contact ReporterOrlando Sentinel. Backlot Tour, born in the Disney-MGM Studios era, ends Saturday. A long-running attraction at Disney's Hollywood Studios is fading to black. The Studio Backlot Tour, a significant part of the theme park's opening-day lineup in 1989, is taking its last visitors on Saturday
Disney's Hollywood Studios is divided into six themed areas. Unlike the other Walt Disney World parks, the park does not have a defined layout, resembling more of a mass of streets and buildings that blend into each other, much like a real motion picture studio. Disney later filed a countersuit, claiming that MGM/UA and MGM Grand, Inc. had conspired to violate Disney's worldwide rights to the MGM name in the theme park business and that MGM/UA would harm Disney's reputation by building its own theme park at the MGM Grand hotel and casino in Las Vegas, Nevada.
WELCOME. Welcome to the Disney-MGM Studios! This site outlines services and facilities available for Guests with disabilities who visit the Disney-MGM Studios. When you arrive at the Studios, you can request the weekly Disney-MGM Studios guidemap, which contains additional information and an entertainment schedule. 
View Gallery. Movie magic comes to life at Disney’s Hollywood Studios, awash in the glitz and glamour of Hollywood’s Golden Age. Step into the action with attractions based on blockbuster movies and top TV shows, and delight in exciting entertainment that puts you center stage
The park originally operated as Disney-MGM Studios until 2008. Hollywood Studios is one of four theme parks that Disney operates at Walt Disney World in Orlando. The park has a theme of 1930s and ’40s Hollywood and houses the Tower of Terror, “Star Tours,” “Toy Story Midway Mania,” an “Indiana Jones” stunt show and other attractions. Marc Graser. Disney plans to give its Hollywood Studios theme park a new name — which would become the park’s third since it opened in 1989. Walt Disney Co. chairman-CEO Bob Iger revealed the planned rebranding while taking questions during the company’s annual shareholders meeting, held Thursday in San Francisco.