From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Democratic Centralism is a Leninist idea which means that the ruling party (in the case of Russia, the Bolsheviks) would discuss an idea to come up with an answer, and then once an answer was decided discussion would never be allowed again. 
The very term “Democratic Centralism” calls forth images of the Politburo of the CPSU and the slavish obedience of the Stalinist parties. If we look at English-language Wikipedia, in the article on democratic centralism we find the following quote: “If all members of a party uphold the party line to the general public it will be much more difficult for agents of the state to create false conflict from the outside” (2).
Gramsci seeks to use democratic centralism as a method for building a unity of democracy and centralization, or perhaps centralization is a democratic process of bringing together the diversity in the mass struggle within revolutionary organization. Central bodies. One of the core elements of democratic centralism is the relationship of central bodies to the party as a whole. Likewise as in the theory, in practice this led to strong central bodies with distinct powers and direction of the party as a whole.
In the Soviet multinational state, democratic centralism is combined with a socialist federal structure. Lenin noted that democratic centralism does not exclude, but rather presupposes, autonomy and federation (see Poln. sobr. soch ., 5th ed., vol. 36, p. 151). The CPSU operates, on the basis of democratic centralism, as a monolithic organization unified by common ideological, organizational, and tactical principles, which are binding on every Communist. Party leadership is exercised from one central point.
An exhaustive article by Scott Nappalos on the Leninist conception of 'democratic centralism'. In this piece, Nappalos examines everything from what Lenin and Gransci said on the subject, to what it looked like in practice in organizations such as the Communist Party USA and Socialist Workers Party UK, among others. Central bodies. One of the core elements of democratic centralism is the relationship of central bodies to the party as a whole. Likewise as in the theory, in practice this led to strong central bodies with distinct powers and direction of the party as a whole.
Definition of DEMOCRATIC CENTRALISM. : a principle of Communist party organization by which members take part in policy discussions and elections at all levels but must follow decisions made at higher levels. ADVERTISEMENT.
Democratic centralism is the name given to the deontological principles of internal organization used by Leninist political parties, and the term is sometimes used as a synonym for any Leninist policy inside a political party. The state organs of the People's Republic of China apply the principle of democratic centralism. The National People's Congress and the local people's congresses at different levels are instituted through democratic election.
the paramount principle of organizational structure, activity, and leadership of Marxist-Leninist parties, the socialist state, and the management of a socialist economy. The essence of democratic centralism lies in the combination of democracy and centralization. Democracy is the sovereignty, independent activity, and initiative of the toilers; and the election of directing bodies and their accountability to the masses. The CPSU operates, on the basis of democratic centralism, as a monolithic organization unified by common ideological, organizational, and tactical principles, which are binding on every Communist. Party leadership is exercised from one central point.