This firm attachment of the gland to the laryngoskeleton is responsible for movement of the thyroid gland and related structures during swallowing. On its way to the larynx, the recurrent laryngeal nerve usually passes deep to the Berry ligament or between the main ligament and its lateral leaf. Thyroid gland, anterior and lateral views. Follicles of the thyroid gland, consisting of a layer of simple epithelium enclosing a colloid-filled cavity. Distribution of thyroid arteries with associated laryngeal nerve, anterior view. Distribution of thyroid arteries with associated laryngeal nerve, pos
The thyroid gland, or simply the thyroid /ˈθaɪrɔɪd/ , is one of the largest endocrine glands in the body, and consists of two connected lobes. It is found in the neck, below the laryngeal prominence (Adam's apple). The thyroid gland is a butterfly-shaped organ and is composed of two cone-like lobes or wings, lobus dexter (right lobe) and lobus sinister (left lobe), connected via the isthmus. Each lobe is about 5 cm long, 3 cm wide and 2 cm thick.
Hyperthyroidism occurs when the gland produces excessive amounts of thyroid hormones, the most common cause being Graves' disease —an autoimmune disorder. In contrast, hypothyroidism is a state of insufficient thyroid hormone production. Worldwide, the most common cause is iodine deficiency. The thyroid gland is a butterfly-shaped organ and is composed of two cone-like lobes or wings, lobus dexter (right lobe) and lobus sinister (left lobe), connected via the isthmus. Each lobe is about 5 cm long, 3 cm wide and 2 cm thick.
A high level of thyroid hormone in the blood plus a low level of TSH is common with an overactive thyroid gland. If blood tests show that your thyroid is overactive, your doctor may want to obtain a picture of your thyroid (a thyroid scan). What is the thyroid gland? The thyroid gland is a butterfly-shaped endocrine gland that is normally located in the lower front of the neck. The thyroid’s job is to make thyroid hormones, which are secreted into the blood and then carried to every tissue in the body.
Your thyroid is a small gland at the base of your neck that makes thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormone controls many activities in your body, including how fast you burn calories and how fast your heart beats. Diseases of the thyroid cause it to make either too much or too little of the hormone. 
The main job of the thyroid gland is to produce hormones T4 and T3. To do this the thyroid gland has to take a form of iodine from the bloodstream into the thyroid gland itself. This substance then undergoes a number of different chemical reactions which result in the production of T3 and T4. Both the thyroid and parathyroid glands are endocrine glands. This means they make and release (secrete) hormones. Hormones are chemicals which can be released into the bloodstream. They act as messengers, affecting cells and tissues in distant parts of your body.
1 Cross-lighting increases shadows, improving the detection of masses. 2  To enhance visualization of the thyroid, you can: 3  Extending the neck, which stretches overlying tissues. 4  Have the patient swallow a sip of water, watching for the upward movement of the thyroid gland. 1 Have the patient swallow a sip of water, watching for the upward movement of the thyroid gland. 2  251KB video demo from Return to the Bedside. 3  After completing anterior inspection of the thyroid, observe the neck from the side.
Movement of thyroid gland with deglutition. The inferior constictor muscle has two parts namely thyropharyngeus and cricopharyngeus and they are respectively attached to thyroid cartilage and cricoid cartilage. Therefore when patient swallows this muscle will contract and thyroid and cricoid cartilage will move up.
The thyroid gland is the biggest gland in the neck. It is situated in the anterior (front) neck below the skin and muscle layers. The thyroid gland takes the shape of a butterfly with the two wings being represented by the left and right thyroid lobes which wrap around the trachea. The sole function of the thyroid is to make thyroid hormone. This hormone has an effect on nearly all tissues of the body where it increases cellular activity
Note: An enlarged thyroid is referred to as a goiter. There is no direct correlation between size and function-a person with a goiter can be euthyroid, hypo-or hyperthyroid. In addition to palpating for size, also note the gland texture, mobility, tenderness and the presence of nodules. 1 Have the patient swallow a sip of water, watching for the upward movement of the thyroid gland. 2  251KB video demo from Return to the Bedside. 3  After completing anterior inspection of the thyroid, observe the neck from the side.