Carp are various species of oily freshwater fish of the family Cyprinidae, a very large group of fish native to Europe and Asia. Carp have long been an important food fish to humans. Several species such as the various goldfish breeds and the domesticated common carp variety known as koi have been popular ornamental fishes. As a result, carp have been introduced to various locations, though with mixed results.
Asian Carp Fact Sheet. 1  Asian carp are a type of fish native to Asia that have been introduced or could be introduced in the United States. 2  Asian carp are regarded as highly invasive species in the U.S. capable of causing economic, ecological or human health harm. 1 Asian carp are a type of fish native to Asia that have been introduced or could be introduced in the United States. 2  Asian carp are regarded as highly invasive species in the U.S. capable of causing economic, ecological or human health harm. 3  They include the flowing species:
About Carp (Cyprinidae Family). Carp is a term used for several types of fish that are in the Cyprindae family. Carp are large, freshwater fish that are native to Asia and Europe but have been imported to many other countries with mixed results. Some of these countries consider them an invasive species. 
Definition of CARP. 1. : a large variable Asian soft-finned freshwater cyprinid fish (Cyprinus carpio) of sluggish waters that is often raised for food and has been widely introduced into United States waters; also: any of various related cyprinid fishes (as the grass carp). 2.
Carp is a common name for various species of freshwater fish of the family Cyprinidae, a very large group of fish native to Europe and Asia. Carp are also popular with spear and bow fisherman. They can grow to a length of 1.2 metres (3.9 ft) and the oldest recorded age of a wild fish is 38 years. The largest recorded carp, caught by British angler, Colin Smith, in 2013 at Etang La Saussaie Fishery, France, weighed 45.59 kilograms (100.5 lb).
Common carp, German carp, European carp (Cyprinus carpio). Common carp. Common carp. Species and Origin: The common carp is a large omnivorous fish. They have large scales, a long dorsal fin base, and two pairs of long barbels (whiskers) in its upper jaw. Native to Europe and Asia, it was intentionally introduced into Midwest waters as a game fish in the 1880s. 
Description of Method-Triploid Grass Carp. The grass carp, also known as the white amur, is a vegetarian fish native to the Amur River in Asia. Because this fish feeds on aquatic plants, it can be used as a biological tool to control nuisance aquatic plant growth. In some situations, sterile grass carp may be permitted for introduction into Washington waters. 
Posted on. by Naveen. Koi vs Carp. Koi and carp are very closely related fish types, yet they are sometimes considered as different types of the same species. However, there are important facts to consider about both Koi and carp before classifying them in the same group or into different groups. • Koi is an ornamental fish of the species common carp. On the other hand, carp is usually the group of cyprinids, but sometimes considered either as large-bodied cyprinids or just the
Izaak Walton said about carp in The Compleat Angler, The Carp is the queen of rivers; a stately, a good, and a very subtil fish; that was not at first bred, nor hath been long in England, but is now naturalised. Carp are also popular with spear and bow fisherman. They can grow to a length of 1.2 metres (3.9 ft) and the oldest recorded age of a wild fish is 38 years. The largest recorded carp, caught by British angler, Colin Smith, in 2013 at Etang La Saussaie Fishery, France, weighed 45.59 kilograms (100.5 lb).