The size of book handled by the CSR varies based on the size of account handled. In personal lines, most CSRs handle between $75,000 and $120,000 in commission. In commercial lines, $165,000-$250,000 in commission handled per CSR is more common, once again with size of account driving the standards. For the high-performing CSR, commissions handled are in the $250,000-$350,000 range. These make a good comparison for the firm.
The median hourly wage for customer service representatives was $14.70 in May 2012. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $9.38 per hour, and the top 10 percent earned more than $24.00 per hour. 
If you don't have a Google Account that uses this address, we recommend you create one. Please avoid using a personal Gmail Account or creating a Gmail Account for business use. If you do have more than one Google Account, you can be signed in to only one Google Account at a time in the same browser. However, if you're signed in to your DoubleClick product in one browser (such as Internet Explorer), you can sign in to your personal Gmail Account in another browser (such as Firefox or Chrome). 
The CSR can handle $300,000 or more depending on how many accounts are involved. I have one agency client with a very experienced CSR handling $600,000 of commission income with only THREE accounts. This amount can go as high as $500,000 depending on the makeup of accounts. *. Small commercial accounts are usually targeted at $10,000 of premium and less. We see the average agency CSR handling about $125,000 to $150,000 of commission income for these accounts.
One of the toughest tasks for any agency manager is determining how much work a staff person should be able to handle. Workloads in either extreme can lead to frustration and lost productivity. Unfortunately, there are no easy answers but, in this article, our agency management gurus take a stab at some of the factors that should be considered and on average what some of the numbers may look like. To navigate through the Ribbon, use standard browser navigation keys. To skip between groups, use Ctrl+LEFT or Ctrl+RIGHT. To jump to the first Ribbon tab use Ctrl+[. To jump to the last selected command use Ctrl+]. To activate a command, use Enter.
We are figuring, on a national average, that there are approximately 1.7 policies per account. Commercial Lines. The CSR should be able to handle $200,000 to $300,000 in commission to the agency. This amount can go as high as $500,000 depending on the makeup of accounts. *. Small commercial accounts are usually targeted at $10,000 of premium and less. We see the average agency CSR handling about $125,000 to $150,000 of commission income for these accounts.
Sales managers, and sales representatives, Territory Managers, Account Managers, Account Executives for manufacturers and distributors often want to know how many accounts one salesperson can handle effectively. 
Google Drive supports multiple sign-in, but works differently than other products. For those places you can’t use multiple sign-in, you have a few options: 1  Use different browsers for each of your accounts. 2  For example: Google Chrome for your business Google Account and Mozilla Firefox for your personal Google Account. Add your Google Accounts. 1  Sign in to Google. 2  Click your profile photo or email address at the top-right corner of the page. 3  Click Add account from the drop-down menu. 4  Enter the username and password for another account you want to access, and click Sign in.
When you sign out of any account, you’ll be signed out of all your accounts on that browser. If you want to use multiple sign-in again, follow the steps in the “Add your Google Accounts” section above again. To sign out of all accounts: 1  Go to your Google Account page. 2  Click your profile photo or email address at the top right of the page. 3  Click Sign out from the drop-down menu. Add your Google Accounts. 1  Sign in to Google. 2  Click your profile photo or email address at the top-right corner of the page. 3  Click Add account from the drop-down menu. 4  Enter the username and password for another account you want to access, and click Sign in.