Find the approximate location of your iOS devices and Mac computers. You can locate your device if: Find My iPhone is set up on the device you want to locate. The iOS device or Mac is online —awake and in range of a Wi-Fi network. If you have Family Sharing set up, you can also locate a family member’s device. For more information, see the Apple Support article Family Sharing.
How to setup location tracking on an iPhone: 1  On the iPhone you want to track, go into SETTINGS, then iCloud. 2  Enter your iCloud account information. 3  Scroll down through the iCloud options (contacts, calendars, etc) and make sure that Find My iPhone is ON. From another iPhone or an iPad: Download and install the free Find My iPhone app. Start the app and enter your Mobile Me membername (email) and password. Select the device to track from the list and a map will appear with the location. To update the map/location, click the refresh-button in the lower left.
If you own an iPad or a second iPhone, you can also install the app and try to locate your missing device. Otherwise, all you need is a browser and your Apple ID login details. Also, don’t be too worried that someone could disconnect your device from iCloud, turn off Find My iPhone or erase your device. 
If Find My iPhone is enabled on your missing device. You can use Find My iPhone to find your device and take additional actions that can help you recover it and keep your data safe. 1  Sign in to icloud.com/find on a Mac or PC, or use the Find My iPhone app on another iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch. 1 Sign in to icloud.com/find on a Mac or PC, or use the Find My iPhone app on another iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch. 2  Find your device. 3  Open Find My iPhone, and select a device to view its location on a map. 4  If the device is nearby, you can have it play a sound to help you or someone nearby find it. 5  Turn on Lost Mode
See what you’re missing. Don’t panic. If one of your Apple devices goes missing, iCloud can help you figure out where it is. Just sign in at iCloud.com or use the Find My iPhone app to see your missing iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, or Mac on a map. And with the Lost Mode feature you don’t just see where your device is, you can track where it’s been. 
What you need to track your iPhone location: 1  Any iPhone (1st generation, iPhone 3g, iPhone 3GS, iPhone 4, iPhone 4S) running iOS 5 or newer-Jailbreaking is not required. 2  First generation iPhones will provide slightly-less accurate location information due to the lack of a GPS chip, and must be in range of cell towers. From another iPhone or an iPad: Download and install the free Find My iPhone app. Start the app and enter your Mobile Me membername (email) and password. Select the device to track from the list and a map will appear with the location. To update the map/location, click the refresh-button in the lower left.
If Find My iPhone isn't enabled on your missing device. If you didn't turn on Find My iPhone before your device was lost or stolen, you can't use it to locate your device. However, you can use these steps to help protect your data: 1  Change your Apple ID password. 1 Sign in to icloud.com/find on a Mac or PC, or use the Find My iPhone app on another iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch. 2  Find your device. 3  Open Find My iPhone, and select a device to view its location on a map. 4  If the device is nearby, you can have it play a sound to help you or someone nearby find it. 5  Turn on Lost Mode
1. Tap the Settings app on your Home Screen. Before you can use the location services to track your iPhone, you need to enable it in your iPhone’s settings. Find My iPhone requires iOS 5 or later, and Lost Mode requires iOS 6 or later. You can perform the same steps above using the Find My iPhone app on another iOS device, such as an iPad or another iPhone. You will need to enter your Apple ID and password. 1  The app functions exactly the same as the Find My iPhone website.