About. Reed Sweet-grass is a tall plant of shallow water and marshy ground, towering above other grasses and forming large patches around rivers, streams and ponds. It flowers between June and August. Although it can become invasive in some areas, large stands can provide good shelter for all kinds of wetland creatures. Reed Sweet-grass is a tall grass with large, loose flower heads that are much branched and have narrow spikelets containing the flowers. Its leaves are long and bright green.
General Description: Reed sweetgrass is a perennial, rhizomatous wetland grass, sometimes variegated in appearance, reaching a height of around 8 feet (2.5 meters) tall. Flower Description: The flowers are arranged in a branching flower cluster, widest at the base. Typically flowers are produced during the spring and summer and consist of narrow spikelets that range from yellow to green with a purple tinge. Leaf Description: Leaf blades are flat, shiny and lightly grooved by a prominent midvein. They are typically 8.6 to 11.4 inches long by 0.25 to 0.79 inches wide. Leaf margins have short stiff hairs. In the variegated variety, the blades are longitudinally striped.
Winter Hardiness: Glyceria maxima 'Variegata' (Variegated Manna Grass) - Glyceria is a semi-evergreen, versatile grass that is a variegated sport of a plant from Europe and Asia Minor. Quite suitable for small gardens as a specimen or even in mass. Thrives in wet soil or even submerged up 1 foot deep and it can generate floating stems in deeper water. Flowers are not showy and occur in mid-summer. Root cold hardy to well below 0 degrees F but evergreen only in near frost free climates.
Glyceria is a widespread genus of grass family common across Eurasia, Australia, North Africa, and the Americas. Glyceria is known commonly as mannagrass in the USA, or, in the UK, sweet-grass. These are perennial rhizomatous grasses found in wet areas in temperate regions worldwide. The base of the grass grows along the ground and may root at several places. Then it grows erect and bears leaf blades which may be flat or folded. 1 Glyceria declinata-waxy mannagrass, low glyceria, small sweet-grass-Europe, Morocco, Madeira, Azores, Canary Islands; naturalized in scattered locales in North America.
Glyceria declinata and G. fluitans. Both of the other Glyceria species present in New Zealand are much smaller (up to 50 cm tall) with narrow sparingly branched, distinctively brown seedheads and form low clumps as opposed to the tall erect clumps formed by reed sweetgrass. It has an extensive root system up to c. l m deep, as well as sprawling underground stems. The leaves are shiny, hairless and mid-green in colour. They grow 30-60 cm above the water surface and are 0.7-2 cm wide.
Robust bright green grass, up to nearly 2 m tall, with creeping rhizomes that form large patches excluding all other plants. The tip of the leaf is boat-shaped. The seedheads are open and branched with many spikelets. It has an extensive root system up to c. l m deep, as well as sprawling underground stems. The leaves are shiny, hairless and mid-green in colour. They grow 30-60 cm above the water surface and are 0.7-2 cm wide.
The flower head is open, branched, and 15-45 cm long comprising a large number of spikelets that range from yellow to green in colour, with a purplish tinge. Flowering occurs in spring and summer. Small dark brown seeds are produced prolifically throughout summer and autumn. It has an extensive root system up to c. l m deep, as well as sprawling underground stems. The leaves are shiny, hairless and mid-green in colour. They grow 30-60 cm above the water surface and are 0.7-2 cm wide.