Best Answer: The ideal temperature for a chinchilla is between 60-70 degrees. Sure, they can be in temperatures a little bit higher than that, but then it starts to become uncomfortable for them. Anything higher than 80 degrees may cause your chinchilla to overheat, which can lead to death.
There, the temperature and humidity are relatively low, and things are pretty quiet. As much as possible, we should try to duplicate those surroundings for chinchillas in captivity. Temperature, humidity, cage location. Temperature: In the wild, chinchillas normally live at a relatively high altitude-over 12,000 feet. Their normal environmental temperature is cool and dry. Therefore, in captivity, they do best when housed at temperatures between 55 and 70ºF. 
Optimum temperature for a chinchilla is between 60 and 70 degrees fahrenheit with low humidity. Generally speaking, they can temporarily tolerate up to about 76 degrees, but 72-73 is about the highest recommended temperature. Basically, if you're comfortable in a thick winter sweater, they'll be comfortable. 
In the winter months it should be kept in a draft-free spot. The ideal temperature for a chinchilla is 68° F. One owner reports, I keep mine at a constant 58 and they love it. I find they are more active at this temperature than at 60 or higher. Any changes in their diet need to be done slowly, mixing the new food in with the old. Chinchillas should have a heavy dish that is not easily knocked over. A 2 inch (5 cm.) high ceramic bowl will do nicely. You can also use metal feeders that attach to the side of the cage.
Chinchillas need to be kept in temperatures that are less than 70 degrees. Because of that air conditioning is a must for summer months if you live in place that gets hot. If you don't keep your chinchillas cool enough they can get heat stroke and die. 
Chinchillas overheat easily. They cannot survive temperatures over 75F or below 50F. Keep their cage in a cool room with lots of air flow. Make sure their cage is not in a spot the sunlight can directly land on them, because it can cause them to be overheated. 
Male chinchillas are sexually mature at around the age of 5 months and females at about 8 months to 1 year. This does not mean a chin cannot get pregnant before this time, however. When females are about 6 months old they start to go into heat about every 25 to 35 days. Any changes in their diet need to be done slowly, mixing the new food in with the old. Chinchillas should have a heavy dish that is not easily knocked over. A 2 inch (5 cm.) high ceramic bowl will do nicely. You can also use metal feeders that attach to the side of the cage.
Chinchillas need: 1  The size/temperature of anywhere they’re left (including vehicles) to be appropriate. 2  Keep chinchillas indoors in well-ventilated/dry/draught-free housing, ideally 10-18ºC. 3  Hot/wet/humid/draughty/dirty conditions may cause suffering/illness. 1 The size/temperature of anywhere they’re left (including vehicles) to be appropriate. 2  Keep chinchillas indoors in well-ventilated/dry/draught-free housing, ideally 10-18ºC.
Housing Your Chinchilla. Chinchillas should be kept as indoor pets because they do not tolerate fluctuations in temperature. Keep them in a quiet room in your home with low activity during the day. Chinchillas should be kept in a cool, draft-free area in your home. 