During pregnancy, the concentration of hCG typically rises to 25 mIU/mL by the first day of a missed menstrual period, or about 4 weeks from a woman's last menstrual period. By 8 to 10 weeks into a pregnancy, the concentration of hCG in the blood typically peaks at about 100,000 mIU/mL. Human chorionic gonadotropin, or hCG, is a hormone made by the placenta to help support the growth of the fetus during pregnancy. During normal pregnancy, hCG levels generally double about every 48 to 72 hours and can be detected by a blood test about 3 weeks from the
Those levels seem high for 7-8 weeks. And after your levels reach a certain amount they no longer double. But by 7 weeks and 100,000 you should see a fetal pole and heartbeat. I personally would not proceed with the D&C until I had some confirmation of miscarriage (i.e. declining HCGs, bleeding, etc.). I was pregnant with my 3rd baby. I thought I was about 13 weeks along but a ultrasound showed my baby stopped growing with no heartbeat at 7 weeks. My drs gave me a medication to help my body pass the baby. They called me a few days later and said don't take the medication! Your hcg levels are still rising.. I went in again for another ultrasound just to double check. The 1st ultrasound was correct I had a miscarriage. However, my body was still trying to make a home as it were which is why my hcg levels were rising. Honestly, that 2nd ultrasound made it more real, helped me get closure, and answer any of those what if questions I'm sure you are asking yourself right now
Not true all the time. I had a miscarriage, and 2 weeks later ovulated and became pregnant. I read that your HCG levels have to go back down to 0 for you to even ovulate. The doctors thought I was pregnant due to remnants too, but had my blood taken and at 3 weeks pregnant, they were over 250. I am also having twins! I went the next day for blood work and the levels were 200. I had another test yesterday and the levels are over 4500 now. In my case, I must have ovulated within a week or 2 of the miscarriage b/c based on my HCG levels, I'm about 3 or 4 weeks along now and the miscarriage was only 5 weeks ago.
· just now. Report Abuse. you hcg levels defo wouldn rise if you were miscarrying. i had M/C 5 weeks ago and i was 6.5 weeks, i had drownish discharge for about 2 days then it got darker and finally turned into fresh blood after about 4 days. 
My last pregnancy the levels were not doubling so they knew I was either going to have a miscarriage or the pregnancy was ectopic. It is a way to see if things are progressing nicely. There is nothing they can do for you if your levels are not doubling. Best Answer: Hey hun, If the HCG levels don't double or rise by atleast 60% in 48 hours they do tell you to expect a miscarriage. It's quite horrible really but no there is nothing they can do. Sometimes they can leave you for a week and offer a scan, but usually you will have lost your baby before that
I had my hcg levels checked with my second pregnancy (because I miscarried the first) to make sure they were rising. They initially started to rise and then by the third hcg test they leveled off, then the next one they dropped. This was at about the end of 4 weeks. I was told I would miscarry. I started to spot the day after I found out I was pregnant. I went to my OBGYN and they did blood work. My levels were very low and they said there was a good chance I would miscarry. Long story short my levels have dropped once but continued to rise incredibly slowly.
Hi All, My wife miscarried at 5.5 weeks, we went for a scan and it shows no sign of a pregnancy. To make sure they took blood tests to check the HCG levels, they were 70. 3-4 days later the levels have risen to 73, which now means my wife has to go back for another blood test because the level has to be below 25 before they'll consider it done. We were referred to a different hospital last week as after a 3rd blood test the HCG levels were still rising. They did a scan but couldn't see anything at all. They sent us away and said to get another blood test done in a week.