- TSH goes up when thyroid function is low (TSH stands for Thyroid Stimulating Hormone). - Your thyroid makes T1, T2, T3 and T4 but your mainstream doc will probably only check TSH, and maybe free T4. - T3 is 4-fold more potent than T4, because T3 is the active form of thyroid hormone. 
This topic provides information about hypothyroidism. Hypothyroidism means your thyroid is not making enough thyroid hormone. If you are looking for information about when the thyroid makes too much thyroid hormone, see the topic Hyperthyroidism. Hypothyroidism means your thyroid is not making enough thyroid hormone. The thyroid is a butterfly-shaped gland in the front of your neck. It makes hormones that control the way your body uses energy. Having a low level of thyroid hormone affects your whole body. 
Hypothyroidism, or low thyroid and sometimes hypothyreosis, is a common disorder of the endocrine system in which the thyroid gland does not produce enough thyroid hormone. It can cause a number of symptoms, such as poor ability to tolerate cold, a feeling of tiredness, and weight gain. 
on. Your thyroid is very important to regulate your activity levels. When you have a too high TSH level in your blood, you are often a very active person. If your TSH numbers are too low than you are probably not a very active person. Sometimes the levels are elevated above a certain threshold and that is when we call it hypothyroidism. The symptoms that are involve with Hypothyroid are very serious but the disease itself is hard to diagnose at first. * Problems with Cholesterol levels. * Osteoporosis. The list goes on but these are probably the most important and serious symptoms associated with low TSH numbers/ hypothyroidism. The best way to find out if you have a low functioning thyroid is by doing laboratory testing. Normally your TSH levels will fluctuate between 0.35 and 5.5
Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. A low thyroid number is when blood test results indicate your thyroid is not functioning properly. Low levels of the thyroid hormone in your blood will result in abnormal test results. It secretes thyroid hormones T3 and T4. These hormones help regulate your metabolism. The pituitary gland, located at the base of your brain, produces thyroid-stimulating hormones (TSH) that tell your thyroid gland to produce T3 and T4.
Best Answer: You may have hyperthyroidism, or an overactive thyroid gland. Normal TSH levels are 0.5 to 5. TSH = thyroid stimulating hormone. TSH is a chemical produced by your pituitary gland. TSH tells your thyroid to make and release the thyroid hormones T3 and T4. Your T4 is high, so your pituitary has virtually stopped sending TSH to your thyroid; therefore your TSH is low. 
A low thyroid number is when blood test results indicate your thyroid is not functioning properly. Low levels of the thyroid hormone...... It secretes thyroid hormones T3 and T4. These hormones help regulate your metabolism. The pituitary gland, located at the base of your brain, produces thyroid-stimulating hormones (TSH) that tell your thyroid gland to produce T3 and T4.
If your blood test shows low TSH levels, you may have a common condition called hyperthyroidism, which is when your thyroid gland produces too much T3 and T4. Low levels of T3 and/or T4, however, can indicate a condition called hypothyroidism. It secretes thyroid hormones T3 and T4. These hormones help regulate your metabolism. The pituitary gland, located at the base of your brain, produces thyroid-stimulating hormones (TSH) that tell your thyroid gland to produce T3 and T4.