Alcantara® is a composite material made of a combination of primarily polyester and polyurethane. It is made via an integrated spinning, textile, and chemical process. The material is frequently used for seat coverings and for the soft interior surfaces of cars such as the sides of doors and the dash. If it is necessary to wet Alcantara® in order to clean it, a damp sponge, wet only with water, is typically best for the material. For stubborn stains, only cleaning products specifically formulated for the material should be used. Other cleaners, such as those for real leather, can cause permanent damage.
Alcantara is produced by combining an advanced spinning process (producing very low denier bi-component islands in the sea fibre) and chemical and textile production processes (needle punching, buffing, impregnation, extraction, finishing, dyeing, etc.) which interact with each other. Alcantara is being used currently as a flame retardant driver seat covering material for Formula One race cars, including the Williams Formula One 2011 FW33 car. It is also used in the ear pads material for the high-end, headphones Sennheiser HD800 and the Sennheiser Momentum On-Ear.
Alcantara feels a lot like suede, but it is not made from leather. Nor is it a woven fabric, said Andrea Boragno, president and chief executive of Alcantara S.p.A., the Italian company that manufactures the product through proprietary technology. Boragno is particularly pleased that Alcantara became Italy’s first carbon-neutral manufacturer. [ more ]. For a more detailed — and slightly more dramatic — history and description of Alcantara, see the manufacturer’s website, which also lists where you can buy it.
Material. Result of a unique, proprietary technology, Alcantara ® is a thoroughly avant-garde material with aesthetic, technical and sensory qualities that no other material can equal. Surface options. printing, embossing, embroidery, electro-welding and many others. A unique and matchless material and, at the same time, with endless customization possibilities: these characteristics mean Alcantara can be used to cover any shape or surface, in compliance with the highest industry standards.
Alcantara in Lancia Y. Alcantara is the covering material with registered trademark, the result of a unique and patented technology, manufactured and marketed by Alcantara SpA. Alcantara is being used currently as a flame retardant driver seat covering material for Formula One race cars, including the Williams Formula One 2011 FW33 car. It is also used in the ear pads material for the high-end, headphones Sennheiser HD800 and the Sennheiser Momentum On-Ear.
Alcantara is a tradename given to a composite material used to cover surfaces and forms in a variety of applications. It can be described as an artificial substitute for suede leather. 
In terms of production, Alcantara dimensional stability is the direct response to the most demanding mass production specifications. Further, Alcantara can be easily combined with other materials, such as leather and fabric, thus leaving a wide margin for design creativity and innovation. The sum of its qualities make Alcantara the perfect link between emotion and performance.
Fast forward a few years to 1981, and Alcantara S.p.A. was created with 51% ownership by Eni, and 49% by Toray. More From Popular Mechanics. If you peruse Alcantara's website, they describe their product as, ... a unique and innovative covering material, the result of a unique and proprietary technology. Incidentally, development of Alcantara has been continually tweaked over the decades, and because the manufacturing procedure involves a solvent coagulation process, the company is quick to mention their plant's strict environmental controls, and the carbon neutrality of its production process.
ALCANTARA® design colors 2009. ALCANTARA® is based on some of the most sophisticated scientific research. it can be used to cover, upholster and decorate a wide range of surfaces and structures. it offers aesthetic and functional qualities that you cannot ever experience using other materials