Full Definition of NEUTRINO. : an uncharged elementary particle that is believed to have a very small mass, that has any of three forms, and that interacts only rarely with other particles. — neu·tri·no·less \-ləs\ adjective. See neutrino defined for English-language learners.
noun (plural neutrinos). A neutral subatomic particle with a mass close to zero and half-integral spin, which rarely reacts with normal matter. Three kinds of neutrinos are known, associated with the electron, muon, and tau particle. Example sentences. 1  The leptons consist of the charged electron, muon and tau, together with three electronically neutral particles-the electron neutrino, muon neutrinos and tau neutrinos. 2  The proton and the neutron are baryons; the electron, the muon, and the neutrino are leptons; whilst the pions are mesons.
Neutrino oscillation is a quantum mechanical phenomenon whereby a neutrino created with a specific lepton flavour (electron, muon, or tau) can later be measured to have a different flavour. The probability of measuring a particular flavour for a neutrino varies periodically as it propagates through space. Neutrino oscillation arises from a mixture between the flavour and mass eigenstates of neutrinos. That is, the three neutrino states that interact with the charged leptons in weak interactions are each a different superposition of the three neutrino states of definite mass.
Medical Definition of NEUTRINO. : an uncharged elementary particle that is believed to be massless or to have a very small mass, that has any of three forms, and that interacts only rarely with other particles. : an uncharged elementary particle that is believed to have a very small mass, that has any of three forms, and that interacts only rarely with other particles. — neu·tri·no·less \-ləs\ adjective. See neutrino defined for English-language learners.
Neutrinos oscillate between different flavors in flight. That is, an electron neutrino produced in a beta decay reaction may arrive in a detector as a muon or tau neutrino. This oscillation requires that the different neutrino flavors have different masses, although these masses have been shown to be tiny. It is possible that the neutrino and antineutrino are in fact the same particle, a hypothesis first proposed by the Italian physicist Ettore Majorana. The neutrino could transform into an antineutrino (and vice versa) by flipping the orientation of its spin state.
A neutrino (/nuːˈtriːnoʊ/ or /njuːˈtriːnoʊ/ , in Italian [nɛuˈtrino]) is an electrically neutral elementary particle with half-integer spin. The neutrino (meaning little neutral one in Italian) is denoted by the Greek letter ν (nu). Neutrinos have mass, but tiny even compared to other subatomic particles. It is possible that the neutrino and antineutrino are in fact the same particle, a hypothesis first proposed by the Italian physicist Ettore Majorana. The neutrino could transform into an antineutrino (and vice versa) by flipping the orientation of its spin state.
By Andrew Zimmerman Jones. Definition: The neutrino is an elementary particle which holds no electrical charge, travels at nearly the speed of light, and passes through ordinary matter with virtually no interaction. There are actually three types of neutrino: electron neutrino, muon neutrino, and tau neutrino. These names come from the their partner particle under the Standard Model of particle physics.
Part of the Computing fundamentals glossary: A neutrino is a sub atom ic particle with no electric charge. Neutrinos are known for their ability to propagate over considerable distances through solid matter almost unaffected. Neutrinos were originally thought to have no mass. Another type is related to a particle called the muon. The third type is related to a particle called the tau. The main difference between the neutrinos and their relatives is the fact that neutrinos are electrically neutral, while the electron, muon, and tau are electrically charged.
Neutrinos are most often created or detected with a well defined flavor (electron, muon, tau). However, in a phenomenon known as neutrino flavor oscillation, neutrinos are able to oscillate among the three available flavors while they propagate through space. It is possible that the neutrino and antineutrino are in fact the same particle, a hypothesis first proposed by the Italian physicist Ettore Majorana. The neutrino could transform into an antineutrino (and vice versa) by flipping the orientation of its spin state.