(November 2007). The adenoid, also known as a pharyngeal tonsil or nasopharyngeal tonsil, is a mass of lymphatic tissue situated posterior to the nasal cavity, in the roof of the nasopharynx, where the nose blends into the throat. 
The pharynx is the uppermost part of the alimentary tract and commonly referred to as the throat. It directs the passage of air and food between the mouth and nose into esophagus and larynx. The tonsils are collections of lymphoid tissue that lie in the pharynx. Location of the Pharynx. It starts from the back of the mouth and nose and extends down into the esophagus. It runs from the base of the skull to the inferior border of the C6 vertebra, which is posterior to the pharynx, and the cricoid cartilage, which lies anterior to
Location of the Tonsils. 1  The pharyngeal tonsil is located in the mucous membrane lining the roof and posterior wall (back wall) of the nasopharynx. 2  It is commonly referred to as the ‘ adenoids ‘ when inflamed. Location of the Pharynx. It starts from the back of the mouth and nose and extends down into the esophagus. It runs from the base of the skull to the inferior border of the C6 vertebra, which is posterior to the pharynx, and the cricoid cartilage, which lies anterior to the pharynx.
Adenoids (Pharyngeal Tonsil). The adenoids, also known as the pharyngeal tonsils, are a part of the lymphatic system located in the back of the throat and up into the nasal cavity. Click to read more below. The adenoids, also known as the pharyngeal tonsils, are a part of the lymphatic system located in the back of the throat and up into the nasal cavity.
1 Posterior 1/3 of the tongue. 2  The lingual tonsils – Located inferiorly to the tongue. 3  The palatine tonsils – Found in the tonsillar fossa between the palatoglossal and palatopharyngeal arches of the oral cavity. The Oropharynx. The oropharynx is the middle part of the pharynx, located between the soft palate and the superior border of the epiglottis. It contains: 1  Posterior 1/3 of the tongue. 2  The lingual tonsils – Located inferiorly to the tongue.
The word throat is used for the parts of the neck anterior to the vertebral column, especially the pharynx and the larynx. The pharynx is the part of the digestive system situated posterior to the nasal and oral cavities and posterior to the larynx. It is therefore divisible into nasal, oral, and laryngeal parts: the (1) nasopharynx, (2) oropharynx, and (3) laryngopharynx. Each lateral wall of the nasopharynx has the pharyngeal opening of the auditory tube, located about 1 to 1.5 cm (1) inferior to the roof of the pharynx, (2) anterior to the posterior wall of the pharynx, (3) superior to the level of the palate, and (4) posterior to the inferior nasal concha and the nasal septum (fig.
Epithelio-lymphatics filter tissue fluid for antigen-Waldeyer's ring. 1. ring of tonsils around the opening of the pharynx to protect the body from antigens entering via the oral and nasal cavities. 
The PHARYNX is a fibromuscular tube which extends from the base of the skull to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage (at which point it becomes the esophagus). Portions of the pharynx lie posterior to the nasal cavity (nasal pharynx), oral cavity (oral pharynx) and larynx (laryngeal pharynx). The muscular walls of the pharynx are comprised of an outer layer made up of 3 circularly disposed muscles, the CONSTRICTORS.