Combi boilers. Combi (or combination) boilers are the UK's most popular type of boiler for gas central heating and domestic hot water. They are easy to install, simple to use and economical to run. A combi boiler only heats water when a hot tap or shower is turned on, ensuring maximum efficiency. There is no need to find space for a water storage cylinder or have a tank in the loft. Hot water is delivered to your taps at mains pressure, so you can enjoy a powerful shower without the need for a pump.
Combi boiler to run power shower. I want a new condensing combi boiler powerfull enough to provide 20L per min to our power shower. Which when I measured it filled a 10l bucket in 30.8 seconds on main shower. The water pressure is good and fills the cold tank as fast as the monster shower empties it.
Unlike a combi gas boiler system, an open-vented heat-only gas boiler system (with a water tank) has components housed externally from the boiler, such as a circulation pump. This type of system will also usually require cold water, as well as feed and expansion tanks in the loft.
It is essential to have an adequate supply of mains cold water with a combi boiler to ensure that the flow rate is good. The best showers for combi boilers are mixer showers. To ensure the best performance from your shower, it’s advisable to buy a shower that works with the characteristics of a combination boiler.
A combi (or combination) boiler is an ingenious space-saving idea, and an increasingly popular choice in UK homes. In fact, combis now account for well over half of all the new domestic boilers installed in Britain every year.
1 a combi gas boiler system is better suited to a home with a smaller number of people, as you'll only be able to use hot water from a combi boiler system for one task at a time. 2  For example, one person wouldn't be able to have a shower while someone else does the washing up using hot running water.
They are called combi as they not only work as a water heater, but also a central heating unit. With a combi boiler, the need to store hot water is completely removed as the boiler heats water on demand. This therefore eliminates the need for a hot water cylinder, giving you more space in your airing cupboard.