The relative size of the cerebral hemispheres are much bigger in humans than in sheep, though sheeps brain share many a similar quality to those of humans in the hemisphere as … pect. The difference between a sheep and human mammillary body in the  brain is that in humans there are two lobes in a sheep there is one  lobe.
The fissure depth in the cerebral hemisphere of sheep are  relatively smaller compared to the human brain. The human brain  also has more convolutions and can carry out more … complex tasks. Answers Publisher. The difference between a sheep and human mammillary body in the  brain is that in humans there are two lobes in a sheep there is one  lobe.
The human brain has the largest cerebellum. The human brain is divided into two hemispheres while the sheep brain is not. Further, the human brain is again divided into four lobes based on function and such lobes are not seen on a sheep brain. Speaking of the function of the brain, the human brain has a broader capacity to function than a sheep brain. Summary. 1  Human brain is larger, longer and heavier than a sheep brain. 2  Human brain is divided into vertical sections called hemispheres whereas sheep brain is not. 3  The olfactory sense is higher in a sheep brain. 4  Human brain is rounded while sheep brain is elongated.
The vertebrate cerebrum (brain) is formed by two cerebral hemispheres that are separated by a groove, the medial longitudinal fissure. The brain can thus be described as being divided into left and right cerebral hemispheres. In eutherian (placental) mammals, the hemispheres are linked by the corpus callosum, a very large bundle of nerve fibers. Smaller commissures, including the anterior commissure, the posterior commissure and the hippocampal commissure also join the hemispheres and these are also present in other vertebrates.
The two cerebral hemispheres are divided by a deep longitudinal fissure and are connected medially at the bottom of the fissure by the corpus callosum. Prominent grooves, subdividing each hemisphere into four major lobes, are the central sulcus, the lateral fissure, and the parietooccipital fissure. 
The relative size of the cerebral hemispheres are much bigger in humans than in sheep, though sheeps brain share many a similar quality to those of humans in the hemisphere as … pect. The difference between a sheep and human mammillary body in the  brain is that in humans there are two lobes in a sheep there is one  lobe.
The fissure depth in the cerebral hemisphere of sheep are  relatively smaller compared to the human brain. The human brain  also has more convolutions and can carry out more … complex tasks. The difference between a sheep and human mammillary body in the  brain is that in humans there are two lobes in a sheep there is one  lobe.
Each of these hemispheres has an outer layer of grey matter, the cerebral cortex, that is supported by an inner layer of white matter. In eutherian (placental) mammals, the hemispheres are linked by the corpus callosum, a very large bundle of nerve fibers. Smaller commissures, including the anterior commissure, the posterior commissure and the hippocampal commissure also join the hemispheres and these are also present in other vertebrates.
Human Brain 6.2. 1. The cerebellum of the sheep lies behind the cerebral hemispheres. (The human cerebellum lies beneath the posterior parts of the cerebral hemispheres; this change in position is due to the greater development of the cephalic flexure and to the enormous growth of the cerebral hemispheres. 2. You are responsible for identifying the following structures in sheep brain specimens & corresponding structures in the human brain plates shown in red. Correct spelling matters. A. Cerebral hemispheres-dorsal and lateral surfaces-Human Brain 7.1 7.2 7.3 7.6. 1. The longitudinal fissure separates the two hemispheres.