In addition, if the name you have chosen is similar to, or the same as, a name that has been registered as a trademark (especially if it is a registered federal trademark), then stay away from it. This is true even if you have given the name of your business a different sound.
When it comes to domain name extensions, the holy grail is, of course, a dot-com. But if that's not available, a dot-net or even dot-co are okay options. And finally, make sure to check whether matching social media handles are available. Ideally they should all be the same as your domain name.
A company name with a non-matching domain name may spell disaster for your business. By Janine Popick. By Janine Popick. Janine Popick writes and speaks on topics related to marketing, small business and entrepreneurship and is an active adviser and investor.
If you are already in business and want to use your existing business name as your domain name, then you may have the upper hand in a dispute with someone who's already using the name online. (Not every business name is protected by trademark law, however.
On the Internet-The internet is a great place to start searching for unregistered trademarked business names that are the same as, or similar to, the business name that you have picked out. Search engines, like Google or Bing, can provide you with a wealth of information.
If your business name is identical to another SEO business, then you could be screwed; It certainly requires caution! However, if you provide SEO/M services and the business claiming infringement designs cookware or provides financial services, then there is really not a trademark issue. You're not screwed.
name, a business name is NOT a trademark and a registered. business name will generally NOT operate to protect the name. from use by others (except as an identical or deceptively similar. business name in the same county).
If the trademark owner has been able to register a name with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, it is probably distinctive. Many domain names -- for instance, coffee.com, drugs.com and business.com -- are potentially powerful domain names, but they're generic.
The business name is simply that, a name, a way to identify a business, entity, or individual. Due to the potential value of a trademark and the inherent property rights entailed within a trademark, the application for a trademark is much more complicated.