Four primary regions are the brainstem, the cerebellum, the cerebrum, and the cerebral cortex. Each brain region is responsible for a variety of functions, and injury to any of these regions impairs specific functions.
The Human Brain. The human brain is a unique and complex structure; it facilitates vital and complicated physiological and psychological functions such as consciousness, mobility, emotion, and personality. Different parts of the brain are responsible for specific functions.
The cerebellum is located in the posterior fossa of the skull, dorsal to the pons and medulla from which it is separated by the Aqueduct of Sylvius and the fourth ventricle. Like the cerebrum, the cerebellum is covered by cortex and consists of two hemispheres, each of which is divided into lobes.
We’ll discuss the Central Nervous System first. The Central Nervous System consists of the brain and the spinal cord. The Cerebral Cortex, which is involved in a variety of higher cognitive, emotional, sensory, and motor functions is more developed in humans than any other animal.
The human brain is the command center for the human nervous system. It receives input from the sensory organs and sends output to the muscles. The human brain has the same basic structure as other mammal brains, but is larger in relation to body size than any other brains.
Cerebellum: In Latin, the word cerebellum means little brain. The cerebellum is the area of the hindbrain that controls motor movement coordination, balance, equilibrium and muscle tone. Like the cerebral cortex, the cerebellum is comprised of white matter and a thin, outer layer of densely folded gray matter.
The brain is one of the most complex and magnificent organs in the human body. Our brain gives us awareness of ourselves and of our environment, processing a constant stream of sensory data. It controls our muscle movements, the secretions of our glands, and even our breathing and internal temperature.
The cerebellum is a part of the human brain. It is the part of the brain that that is responsible for human movement, co-ordination, motor control and sensory perception. The cerebellum is in the lower posterior part of the brain which looks almost like it is separate but still of the same unit.
Coordination of voluntary movements. Most movements are composed of a number of different muscle groups acting together in a temporally coordinated fashion. One major function of the cerebellum is to coordinate the timing and force of these different muscle groups to produce fluid limb or bod