With about 2,000 species in 12 families, they are one of the smaller insect orders. Earwigs have characteristic cerci, a pair of forceps pincers on their abdomen, and membranous wings folded underneath short forewings, hence the scientific order name, skin wings.. Earwigs rarely use their flying ability. Earwigs are mostly nocturnal and often hide in small, moist crevices during the day, and are active at night, feeding on a wide variety of insects and plants. Damage to foliage, flowers, and various crops is commonly blamed on earwigs, especially the common earwig Forficula auricularia
Earwigs, or pincher bugs, like to eat decomposing plants and wet leaves. They invade your flower beds and gardens, and they may even invade your home. Follow these steps to get rid of earwigs either naturally or with chemicals. You can also learn how to prevent earwig invasions before they happen. 
Earwigs are nocturnal insects commonly found in high moisture areas near human dwellings. They are omnivorous feeding on both plants and other insects living and dead. Contrary to the old wives tales, earwigs do not intentionally crawl into your ears and they do not eat your brains, their omnivory notwithstanding. 
1 Some earwig species are attracted to lights. 2  During the day, earwigs will seek shelter under organic matter such as mulch, pine straw, leaf litter, and other debris. 3  Earwigs prefer dark and damp areas like under sidewalks, and stones. 4  Earwigs eat live plants and can do damage to field crops. 1 Earwigs prefer dark and damp areas like under sidewalks, and stones. 2  Earwigs eat live plants and can do damage to field crops. 3  Earwigs are found in homes and can get in through entry points like doors and windows, and by going up the foundation.
The earwig is a ground insect, although some can fly. Most earwigs frequent most mulch and areas beneath leaves. These bugs have what appear to be pincers extending from their abdomens and jutting out on the opposite end from their heads. These pincers, also called forceps, are not used to aggressively attack people. Earwigs are insects of the order Dermaptera. Stemming from the Latin, derma means “skin” and ptera means “wings” thus “skin winged” from the appearance of the front wings. Researchers have identified several species of earwigs in North America.
Earwigs are some of the most interesting insects that are encountered. At the same time, there are many myths about earwigs. It is important to understand the truth about earwigs and to better understand their role in nature. Earwigs are insects of the order Dermaptera. Stemming from the Latin, derma means “skin” and ptera means “wings” thus “skin winged” from the appearance of the front wings. Researchers have identified several species of earwigs in North America.
Apperance. Earwigs are easily recognizable by their pincers (forceps harmless to humans) at the ends of their abdomen. They are dark reddish-brown, with light brown legs, and are about 5/8 inch long. 1 Earwigs prefer dark and damp areas like under sidewalks, and stones. 2  Earwigs eat live plants and can do damage to field crops. 3  Earwigs are found in homes and can get in through entry points like doors and windows, and by going up the foundation.
Earwigs have five molts in the year before they become adults. Many earwig species display maternal care, which is uncommon among insects. Female earwigs may care for their eggs, and even after they have hatched as nymphs will continue to watch over offspring until their second molt. Earwigs rarely use their flying ability. Earwigs are mostly nocturnal and often hide in small, moist crevices during the day, and are active at night, feeding on a wide variety of insects and plants. Damage to foliage, flowers, and various crops is commonly blamed on earwigs, especially the common earwig Forficula auricularia
Earwigs are generally nocturnal, and typically hide in small, dark, and often moist areas in the daytime. They can usually be seen on household walls and ceilings. Interaction with earwigs at this time results in a defensive free-fall to the ground followed by a scramble to a nearby cleft or crevice. Earwigs rarely use their flying ability. Earwigs are mostly nocturnal and often hide in small, moist crevices during the day, and are active at night, feeding on a wide variety of insects and plants. Damage to foliage, flowers, and various crops is commonly blamed on earwigs, especially the common earwig Forficula auricularia