The sensory receptors of the accessory olfactory system are located in the vomeronasal organ. As in the main olfactory system, the axons of these sensory neurons project from the vomeronasal organ to the accessory olfactory bulb, which in the mouse is located on the dorsal-posterior portion of the main olfactory bulb. Unlike in the main olfactory system, the axons that leave the accessory olfactory bulb do not project to the brain's cortex but rather to targets in the amygdala and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and from there to the hypothalamus, where they may influence aggressive and mating behavior.
The olfactory system is the sensory system used for olfaction, or the sense of smell. Most mammals and reptiles have two distinct parts to their olfactory system: a main olfactory system and an accessory olfactory system. 
Olfaction is the sense of smell. The Olfactory System is the sensory system used for Olfaction (smelling). So in short, Its a sensory system (nerve) not a motor nerve. Thi … nk of motor nerves as nerves that cause a change in something, such as muscle motor nerves cause the muscle to contract.
Olfaction, along with taste, is a form of chemoreception. The chemicals themselves that activate the olfactory system, in general at very low concentrations, are called odorants. Although taste and smell are separate sensory systems in land animals, water-dwelling organisms often have one chemical sense. Unlike in the main olfactory system, the axons that leave the accessory olfactory bulb do not project to the brain's cortex but rather to targets in the amygdala and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and from there to the hypothalamus, where they may influence aggressive and mating behavior.
The olfactory sensory endings are modified epithelial cells and the least specialized of the special senses. The olfactory nerves connect with the olfactory bulb and the olfactory tract, which are components of the part of the brain associated with the sense of smell. Also called first cranial nerve, nervus olfactorius. pertaining to the sense of smell. olfactory bulb. the bulblike extremity of the olfactory tract on the rostral surface of the frontal lobe of each cerebral hemisphere; it is lodged against the cribriform plate through which the olfactory nerves pass.
Olfactory nerves. Also known as CN1, the olfactory nerve is the first of 12 cranial nerves located within the head. It relays sensory data to the brain, and it is responsible for the sense of smell. The nerve's olfactory receptors are located within the mucosa of the nasal cavity. Unlike many other nerves, CN1 does not possess two trunks. 
Destruction to the olfactory bulb results in ipsilateral anosmia The olfactory lobe is a neutral structure of the vertebrate forebrain involved in olfaction, or sense of smell. In most vertebrates, the olfactory bulb is the most rostral (forward) part of the brain, as seen in rats. In humans, however, the olfactory bulb is on the inferior (bottom) side of the brain.
The olfactory bulb is one of the structures of the limbic system and a very ancient part of the brain. As mentioned in the previous description of the olfactory process, the information captured by the sense of smell goes from the olfactory bulb to other structures of the limbic system. The limbic system is a network of connected structures near the middle of the brain linked within the central nervous system. 1 The olfactory bulbs has sensory receptors that are actually part of the brain which send messages directly to: 2  The most primitive brain centers where they influence emotions and memories (limbic system structures), and. “ 3 Higher” centers where they modify conscious thought (neo-cortex).
Olfactory receptor cells, actually neurons, are the site of transduction. Olfactory receptor cells are the only neurons in the nervous system that are regularly replaced (they last about 4-8 weeks). The size of the epithelium is a good indicator of the acuity of an animal's sense of smell. 
The olfactory bulb (bulbus olfactorius) is a neural structure of the vertebrate forebrain involved in olfaction, or the sense of smell. In most vertebrates, the olfactory bulb is the most rostral (forward) part of the brain, as seen in rats. In humans, however, the olfactory bulb is on the inferior (bottom) side of the brain.