Amantadine is also used to treat Parkinson's disease and Parkinson-like symptoms such as stiffness and shaking that may be caused by the use of certain drugs. Amantadine may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide.
Amantadine is used to prevent or treat a certain type of flu (influenza A). If you have been infected with the flu, this medication may help make your symptoms less severe and shorten the time it will take you to get better.
Amantadine comes as a capsule and liquid to take by mouth. It is usually taken once or twice a day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand.
Amantadine is an antiviral medication used to prevent or treat certain influenza infections; it is also given as an adjunct for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. It has been demonstrated that this amantadine, through some unknown mechanism, is sometimes effective in relieving fatigue in multiple sclerosis.
1 Review. Amantadine is the generic form of the brand-name drug Symmetrel, which is used to treat and prevent respiratory infections caused by the influenza A virus. It can also treat symptoms of Parkinson's disease, such as stiffness and shaking, and conditions that are similar to Parkinson's disease.
Amantadine is an antiviral drug that is believed to work by stopping the growth of a virus. It helps treat the symptoms of Parkinson's disease by increasing the effects of dopamine.
Amantadine is also used to treat Parkinson's disease, as well as side effects caused by drugs (e.g., drug-induced extrapyramidal symptoms), chemicals, other medical conditions. In these cases, this medication may help to improve your range of motion and ability to exercise.
Amantadine is used to treat Parkinson's disease and conditions similar to those of Parkinson's disease. It also is used to prevent and treat respiratory infections caused by influenza A virus. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information.