Glutamate is an excitatory relative of GABA. It is the most common neurotransmitter in the central nervous system-as much as half of all neurons in the brain-and is especially important in regards to memory.
Inhibitory Neurotransmitters. SEROTONIN is an inhibitory neurotransmitter – which means that it does not stimulate the brain. Adequate amounts of serotonin are necessary for a stable mood and to balance any excessive excitatory (stimulating) neurotransmitter firing in
Depression has been linked to problems or imbalances in the brain with regard to the neurotransmitters serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine. The evidence is somewhat indirect on these points because it is very difficult to actually measure the level of neurotransmitter in a person's brain.
Here are some key points about serotonin. More detail and supporting information is in the main article. 1  Serotonin is an important chemical neurotransmitter in the human body. 2  It is commonly regarded as a chemical that is responsible for maintaining mood balance. 3  Serotonin is created by a biochemical conversion process.
Serotonin is known to be the most responsible in terms of neurotransmitters and depression. Serotonin is responsible for an array of functions most importantly being the mood and perception of a person. Inadequate levels of the neurotransmitters assuredly affect a person’s mood and influence the possibility of a person developing the disorder.
1 Serotonin is an important chemical neurotransmitter in the human body. 2  It is commonly regarded as a chemical that is responsible for maintaining mood balance. 3  Serotonin is created by a biochemical conversion process.
Decreased availability of certain neurotransmitters (such as norepinephrine, serotonin, and dopamine) may result in depression. Anxiety is thought to result from problems with the neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), which normally suppresses the action of neurons.
In the 1960s, the catecholamine hypothesis was a popular explanation for why people developed depression. This hypothesis suggested that a deficiency of the neurotransmitter norepinephrine (also known as noradrenaline) in certain areas of the brain was responsible for creating depressed mood.