1 is the international code used to dial to U.S.A.. There are multiple city/area codes in use for Los Angeles. If does not work, you may try the others. The area codes used are: 213/310/323/424/626/818/661/747. 
Calls to Denmark from North America, dial 011 + 45 + the 8-digit local number. Calls to North America from Denmark, dial 00 + 1 + the area code and local number. Major North American calling cards (Nobelcom, AT&T, MCI) can be used in Denmark. For AT&T Direct, dial 8001 0010. For operator-placed international calls, including collect calls, dial 115. There is a fairly large service charge
1 For calls to most countries dial the following: 011 + country code + phone number. 2  For calls to countries within the North American Numbering Plan dial: 1 + area code + 7 digit local number, same as dialing a US state to state call (note that you will incur international charges). If the international number you wish to call starts with a 0 (zero) , you must drop this digit when dialing the number. The 0 (zero) is a so called trunk code used for domestic calls within many countries.
Search for International Country Codes used for long distance calling. Our Search box allow you to find all international country calling codes available and the specific phone area code. Phone country code directory is constantly updated. International area code lookup will be fast and convenient. 
To call Denmark from the U.S., just follow these basic dialing instructions: 1  First dial 011, the U.S. exit code. 2  Next dial 45, the Denmark country code. 3  Then dial the 8-digit phone number. 
The International Direct Dialing prefix is the international access code that is used when dialing a call from one listed country to another. This is followed by the country code for the country you are calling (see above). The International Direct Dialing codes are changed on regular basis in most of countries. On the other hand, when dialing from within that country, the National Direct Dialing would be used and the country code is not. Note: all city or area codes used on this site are expressed for use in international calling. If you are dialing a national call, prefix the area/city code with the National Direct Dialing.
This page details Denmark phone code. The Denmark country code 45 will allow you to call Denmark from another country. Denmark telephone code 45 is dialed after the IDD. Denmark international dialing 45 is followed by an area code. The Denmark area code table below shows the various city codes for Denmark. Denmark country codes are followed by these area codes. With the complete Denmark dialing code, you can make your international call
How to call Denmark from United States: 011 - United States exit code to dial first when calling international. 45 - Danish country code must be dialed next 011 + 45 + Local Number-Overall dialing code format. Follow @callingcodes. We hope Country Calling Codes has been of help to you in finding the Danish calling code for your international call from United States to Denmark. Why not bookmark this page and tell a friend about this site for the next time they need to lookup an area code or international dialing code
Our International Dialing Code finder will help you find the dialing and area codes for a large selection of countries and cities. If your place is not listed, find a nearby city, in the same country. 