The best way of repelling skunks is to discourage them from visiting in the first place. The following preventive measures will make skunks less likely to visit your property: 1  Keep your trash cans tightly covered and make sure the cans can't be tipped over [source: Toronto Animal Services 2  ]. Feed your pets indoors. 3  Empty any birdfeeders at night.
This site is intended to provide skunk education and information about how to keep skunks away, so that you can make an informed decision if you need to deal with a skunk problem. This site provides many skunk control articles and strategies, if you wish to attempt to solve the problem yourself. If you want to repel skunks, you have to keep the yummies out of the yard that’s attracting them. Use lids on your garbage cans that are not easy to get off, yet will cover the entire trash can. Always tie the trash before placing the lid on and never ever leave pet food outdoors
1 The skunk will not be able to get out of the garbage can and will not spray inside a closed container. 2  After the skunk is inside, put lid on the garbage can. 3  Put it in your truck and carry the skunk away to a wooded area. 4  Release by tying (or clamping) a twenty foot or longer cord to the lid handle. 1 Spray it around the perimeter of your yard. 2  Pepper sprays, also sold to repel squirrels and other wild creatures, are effective skunk repellents. 3  Spray them on trees and other areas where you've seen skunks. 4  Ammonia also deters skunks.
There’s no need to dig a really deep hole because skunks won’t even attempt to dig under the fence unless they are able to see an opening on the other side. It’s also important to make sure that you seal off any openings under your home, sheds and decks. More in-detail how-to skunk removal articles: If you want to repel skunks, you have to keep the yummies out of the yard that’s attracting them. Use lids on your garbage cans that are not easy to get off, yet will cover the entire trash can. Always tie the trash before placing the lid on and never ever leave pet food outdoors.
1 Pepper sprays, also sold to repel squirrels and other wild creatures, are effective skunk repellents. 2  Spray them on trees and other areas where you've seen skunks. 3  Ammonia also deters skunks. 4  Soak old rags in ammonia and place them under your deck or porch to keep skunks from coming in. 1 Spray it around the perimeter of your yard. 2  Pepper sprays, also sold to repel squirrels and other wild creatures, are effective skunk repellents. 3  Spray them on trees and other areas where you've seen skunks. 4
1 Ammonia also deters skunks. 2  Soak old rags in ammonia and place them under your deck or porch to keep skunks from coming in. 3  Citrus peels have natural repellent qualities. 4  Scatter orange or lemon peels around your property and under your deck or porch. 1 Spray it around the perimeter of your yard. 2  Pepper sprays, also sold to repel squirrels and other wild creatures, are effective skunk repellents. 3  Spray them on trees and other areas where you've seen skunks. 4 
The spray can cause temporary blindness if it reaches the eyes. Skunks also spread rabies and they can get into trash and other items in your yard, and make a mess. You can keep them away from your yard by removing any food sources and possibilities of shelter. Make sure a skunk cannot get into the trash can. Make sure your front and back porch are completely enclosed. Look for openings under the porches -- these are favorite spots for skunks. Pick up all the fruit from under fruit trees. Skunks frequent your yard if they know there is always fruit readily available. Get rid of your wood piles or any other space a skunk may find appealing to hide in. Skunks like to hide in places that have small openings
Part 3 of 3: Removing skunks from your property. 1. Set a trap. Spring-loaded skunk traps lure the skunk inside with bait, then close the door behind them so they can't escape. The skunk is then carried away from your property and set free in the woods or another open, wild area. 1 Spray it around the perimeter of your yard. 2  Pepper sprays, also sold to repel squirrels and other wild creatures, are effective skunk repellents. 3  Spray them on trees and other areas where you've seen skunks. 4  Ammonia also deters skunks.