fondue. n. 1. (Cookery) a Swiss dish, consisting of cheese melted in white wine or cider, into which small pieces of bread are dipped and then eaten. [C19: from French, feminine of fondu melted, from fondre to melt; see fondant]. 2. fondue-hot cheese or chocolate melted to the consistency of a sauce into which bread or fruits are dipped. fondu. dish-a particular item of prepared food; she prepared a special dish for dinner.
Since the 1950s, the name fondue has been generalized to other dishes in which a food is dipped into a communal pot of liquid kept hot in a fondue pot: chocolate fondue, in which pieces of fruit are dipped into a melted chocolate mixture, and fondue bourguignonne, in which pieces of meat are cooked in hot oil. Cheese fondue consists of a blend of cheeses, wine and seasoning. To prepare the caquelon it is first rubbed with a cut garlic clove. White wine is slightly heated with cornstarch, and then grated cheese is added and stirred until melted. It is often topped off with a bit of kirsch.
Full Definition of FONDUE. 1. : a dish similar to a souffle soufflé usually made with cheese and bread. crumbs. 2 (a) : 1 a preparation of melted (cheese As swiss cheese And) gruyere gruyère usually flavored with white wine and: kirsch b a chafing dish in which fondue. is made : a dish similar to a souffle soufflé usually made with cheese and bread. crumbs. 2 (a) : 1 a preparation of melted (cheese As swiss cheese And) gruyere gruyère usually flavored with white wine and: kirsch b a chafing dish in which fondue. Is made see fondue Defined-for english. Language learners see fondue defined. for kids
Chocolate can be used for a dessert fondue. Blocks of sharp cheddar cheese, which is sometimes used in fondue. For a twist, use Mexican chocolate and cinnamon to make a fondue dipping sauce. Small pieces of food, such as bread, are eaten at fondue parties. Fondue first became popular in the US in the 1970s, but it's been around in some form ever since. It's a unique form of cooking that allows diners to make their food as they eat it. While eating it can be a solitary pursuit, it is best enjoyed with others, perhaps at a fondue party.
The word fondue is the feminine passive past participle of the French verb fondre (to melt) used as a noun. It is first attested in French in 1735, in Vincent la Chapelle 's Cuisinier moderne, and in English in 1878. Cheese fondue consists of a blend of cheeses, wine and seasoning. To prepare the caquelon it is first rubbed with a cut garlic clove. White wine is slightly heated with cornstarch, and then grated cheese is added and stirred until melted. It is often topped off with a bit of kirsch.
Fondue (/ˈfɒndjuː/ or /ˈfɒnduː/ ; [fɔ̃dy]) is a Swiss, Italian, and French dish of melted cheese served in a communal pot (caquelon or fondue pot) over a chafing stand (rechaud) réchaud heated with a candle or spirit, lamp and eaten by dipping bread into the cheese using-long stemmed. forks Cheese fondue consists of a blend of cheeses, wine and seasoning. To prepare the caquelon it is first rubbed with a cut garlic clove. White wine is slightly heated with cornstarch, and then grated cheese is added and stirred until melted. It is often topped off with a bit of kirsch.
Skewers are used to spear the food the diner wants to dip in the fondue, and usually come prepackaged with any pot. The pot can be used for both dipping and cooking. There are two main dipping substances, cheese and chocolate. Cheese fondue is used with pieces of bread, crackers, and similar items. Fondue first became popular in the US in the 1970s, but it's been around in some form ever since. It's a unique form of cooking that allows diners to make their food as they eat it. While eating it can be a solitary pursuit, it is best enjoyed with others, perhaps at a fondue party.
Fondue is a fun cooking method to use when serving a meal for a small group. It can be used for cooking meat or seafood, or it can be used to prepare different types of dipping sauces for dipping almost any type of food. The type of fondue dipping sauce that is used will depend on what you will be dipping. Cheese Fondue. Before adding the cooked cheese fondue to the pot, rub a clove of garlic inside of the pot for added flavor. Prepare and heat the fondue on the stove first, and then transfer to the fondue pot.
Fondue is a Swiss meal taken in an pot (caquelon) over a small burner (rechaud) by some men and women round a table. The word comes from the French word naming an operation fondre (make liquid by heat). Long-stemmed forks are used to put bits of food into a warm and liquid sauce. Cheese fondue with bits of bread is most frequent, however there are other sauces and other bits to put in the sauce. Bread, meat or plants are cut into small bits and used