Anu | March 17, 2013 Comment. Sabudana khichdi is a traditional breakfast dish in India. Made with sago, potatoes, and peanuts, this is a simple and healthy recipe. Start your day with this filling breakfast. With some prep work the night before, making this dish is easy. Also known as tapioca pearls, sago is made from the starch extracted from the pith (center) of the sago palm stems.
Health benefits of Sabudana. The health benefits of sabudana (sago) are mainly in the carbohydrates it provides. Also known as TAPIOCA PEARLS, SAGO is made from the starch extracted from the pith (center) of the sago palm stems. The commercial production of sago is in the shape of small globules or pearls. 
When one thinks of fasting, Sabudana Khichdi is the most popular recipe that comes to mind. In this video, discover how to make sabudana khichdi and ensure that it remains non-sticky and tastes delicious! Ingredients: 
Sabudana, or tapioca, is a favourite breakfast and evening snack option in Indian households. Sabudana khichdi, sabudana pakoda or sabudana kheer are served at Indian dinner tables quite often. Apart from food, it is also commonly used to starch clothes. Here, we tell you about the other health benefits this food has to offer. Regular consumption of sabudana keeps blood pressure levels under control. Also, the potassium present in it aids healthy blood flow and lowers the pressure on the cardiovascular system. Sabudana is a healthy weight gain food. So if you're skinny and wish to gain weight naturally, add tapioca to your diet.
Sabudana khichdi or spicy tapioca salad recipe is a popular vrat/fasting food. Soaked Sago pearls or tapioca is sauteed with bite size potatoes, peanuts and mild spices. A Maharashtrain style perfect breakfast recipe. If not using it as a fasting food adding onions will bring a different taste to this recipe. Enjoy it at any time of the day – whether as a breakfast or an evening tea snack. Follow the step by step recipe below to a healthier, nuttier and delicious Sabudana khichdi or spicy tapioca salad recipe. DISCLAIMER – If you do not consume a particular veggie or spice during Navratri, feel free to leave that out and follow your family vrat guidelines
By maria on February 17th, 2015 2 Comments. Sabudana Khichdi a simple, healthy snack eaten during fast/ vrat / upwas… The best part is Sabudana Khichdi has no onion and no garlic so makes it ideal during fast. Also its made with basic ingredients. This can be eaten as snack, breakfast, quick meals, brunch Or pack them in lunch boxes. Tapioca pearls are known as sabudana. Sabudana Khichdi is one of famous recipes eaten in Indian during holy fasting Or even as breakfast. Vivid memories revived back today from school days when I ate this dish. This recipe is easy to make and tastes quite yum.
With Navratri around the corner, it is common to see people stock up on tapioca or sabudana in Hindi. A common food, when one is fasting, sabudana is a starch extract of the cassava plant. But if you thought Indians were the only ones who used this root, think again. Used all across the world, including countries such as South America and Brazil, tapioca is one of the most widely sold plants all over the world.
Sabudana khichdi recipe| Sago khichdi recipe. Posted on September 25, 2013 by Jaishree in Healthy gujrathi recipes, Marathi Recipes, Microwave Cooking, Uncategorized, Vrath recipe. sabudana khichdi. Sabudana (sago/ tapioca pearls) khichadi eaten in breakfast or snacks time even if you are not on fast /vrath.