White Meritage wines, while rare, are some of the most elegant and exquisite white wines crafted. The perfect accompaniment to seafood and poultry, White Meritage is a very food-friendly wine, but also is superb just on its own. Unlike many white wines, White Meritage is perfect for cellaring-growing more complex with age. To qualify as a White Meritage, a wine must be a blend of at least two of three specific white noble varieties-Sauvignon Blanc, Semillon or Muscadelle du Bordelais. No single variety can make up more than 90% of the blend.
A Red Meritage is a blend of two or more of the red noble Bordeaux varieties-Cabernet Sauvignon, Cabernet Franc, Malbec, Merlot, Petit Verdot and the rarer St. Macaire, Gros Verdot and Carmenere. Carmenère if the blend includes any other grape, variety it, is by, definition not A. meritage Red Meritage wines historically have been among the world's most highly rated wines. They are prized for their smooth, silky texture and complex, robust structure. While they age beautifully-often for decades-most are also very drinkable in their younger years.
Meritage or Summation is a name for red and white Bordeaux-style wines without infringing on the Bordeaux (France) region's legally protected designation of origin. 
Meritage. (MER-ah-tij): Modelled after red Bordeaux. Fruity with blackberry, raspberry, mocha & vanilla. Here are a few pairing ideas for best food with Meritage 1  : Wine with Cauliflower Casserole. 2  Wine with Grilled Steak. 3  Wine with Montreal seasoning. 4  Wine with roast duck. If you'd like find what wine goes with what food, you can use the Hello Vino tool on this page, or view our large list of food and wine pairing suggestions. Search for a Food & Wine Pairing: For example, search wine with turkey or gouda wine pairing.
They are not to be confused with inexpensive blends of jug wines. Meritage wines use specific grapes, and wines are made in the Bordeaux style. In types of red wine, sone of the grapes used are: Cabernet Sauvignon, Cabernet Franc, Petit Verdot, Merlot, and Malbec. In types of white wine, the grape varieties are: Sauvignon Blanc, Semillon, semillón And Sauvignon. Vert these wines were first made In Napa valley in the mid. 1970s
Don't miss even more delicious ways to marry food and wine in Pairing White Rhone Wines with Food! Slideshow View Tags: Bordeaux, Eric Guido, food, wine pairing, blends Mentioned in this article Share: 26 Comments Comments Nathan-Ophardt 905326 324 Nice choice on the NY meritage. Cabernet from a Red Mountain. In this taster's opinion, Washington State is now producing some of the most exciting Bordeaux blends in the U.S. These are wines of power that are blended with red earth and minerals.
A Red Meritage is a blend of two or more of the red noble Bordeaux varieties-Cabernet Sauvignon, Cabernet Franc, Malbec, Merlot, Petit Verdot and the rarer St. Macaire, Gros Verdot and Carmenere. carmenère Red Meritage wines historically have been among the world's most highly rated wines. They are prized for their smooth, silky texture and complex, robust structure. While they age beautifully-often for decades-most are also very drinkable in their younger years.
We're here to help you select and enjoy the right wine for any occasion. Part of what I love about wine is that pairing it with food is more art than science. So while the goal of this website is to provide a great starting point, clearly your own preferences and experiences will quickly take over. 
Meritage is a trademarked name for American red wines made from blends of Bordeaux grapes. Most Meritage winemakers are located in California, many of them in the famous Napa Valley. One of the best known Meritage wines is Opus One. Suggested food pairings include Steak, Lamb, and Game. Meritage is a marketing term. Two examples of such wines are the Kendall-Jackson Vintners Reserve Meritage at about $15 a bottle that claims cassusm blackberry, plum, strawberry, and even cranberry tastes. This wine has won gold medals competing with others in its price class.