The Berlin Blockade (1 April 1948 – 12 May 1949) was one of the first major international crises of the Cold War. During the multinational occupation of post–World War II Germany, the Soviet Union blocked the Western Allies ' railway, road, and canal access to the sectors of Berlin under Western control. By the spring of 1949, the airlift was clearly succeeding, and by April it was delivering more cargo than had previously been transported into the city by rail. On 12 May 1949, the USSR lifted the blockade of West Berlin.
The Berlin Airlift occurred after World War 2. When Germany surrendered, the four major countries of the Allies were placed in charge as occupation forces. The four countries were USA, Britain, France and Russia. Answer       The relief provided by air by America, Britain and France to West Berlin when it was blockaded by Stalin's Soviet Union in 1948-49. It lasted for ab … out 11 months until the Soviet Union abandoned the blockade.
The main cause of the Berlin Blockade was the Cold War, which was just getting started. Stalin was taking over eastern Europe by salami tactics and Czechoslovakia had just turned Communist (March 1948). On the other side, the USA had just adopted the Truman Doctrine to contain the USSR. The next day the Russians stopped all road and rail traffic into Berlin. The Americans claimed that Stalin was trying to force the USA out of Berlin, and that the blockade was Russian empire-building in eastern Europe.
Primarily, the Berlin Blockade was an episode in the Cold War Stalin was taking over eastern Europe by salami tactics, and America had just adopted the Truman Doctrine. Secondly, America and Russia had different Aims for Germany. Stalin wanted to destroy Germany, and was stripping East Germany of its wealth. The next day the Russians stopped all road and rail traffic into Berlin. The Americans claimed that Stalin was trying to force the USA out of Berlin, and that the blockade was Russian empire-building in eastern Europe.
The Berlin Blockade was an attempt by the Soviet Union to block Allied access to the German city of Berlin in 1948 and 1949. Ultimately, the blockade turned out to be a total political failure for the Soviet Union, and the West managed to turn it into a major victory. 
Posted on. (Answer #1). The Berlin Airlift happened in 1949. It was a time when the American and British air forces supplied the city of West Berlin with everything it needed to survive -- everything from food to coal. It all had to be flown in. The reason it happened is that the Russians had cut off access from the Allied zones of occupation in West Germany to West Berlin, which was in the Russian zone (what became East Germany). So the Allies had to either surrender West Berlin or they had to supply it by air.
Introduction. The Berlin Blockade was an attempt in 1948 by the Soviet Union to limit the ability of France, Great Britain and the United States to travel to their sectors of Berlin, which lay within Russian-occupied East Germany. 
Berlin blockade and airlift, international crisis that arose from an attempt by the Soviet Union, ... Tension remained high, but war did not break out. The Berlin Blockade was an attempt by the ... as they did not want to ... heightened the West Berlin blockade. The Berlin Wall blockade was a result ...
The second reason for the Berlin Blockade was that the USA and the USSR had different Aims for what they wanted to do to Germany. The USSR had already disagreed with Britain and the USA at Potsdam (July 1945) about this. The next day the Russians stopped all road and rail traffic into Berlin. The Americans claimed that Stalin was trying to force the USA out of Berlin, and that the blockade was Russian empire-building in eastern Europe.