Report Abuse. It does snow in most places in Washington. Maybe once or twice a year around november and december. It is beautiful here all year round. Yes it does rain, but not as bad as everyone makes it seem. Washington is a great place to live. Summer you have lakes and the ocean and winter time you have beautiful mountains covered in snow. What more could you ask for:). Source(s): Lived here all my life..
Reputation: 4577. I wouldn't say it necessarily snows a lot in the Bellingham area. Whatcom county does get more snow and colder temperatures than the rest of western Washington because of the bitter cold winds and temperatures that come down from the Fraser River Valley. --'rocco. I was wondering if it snowed a lot in northern Washington. If it does it should brighten things up during the winter. I am inquiring in particular around Bellingham up to the border.
Bellingham, Washington, gets 36 inches of rain per year. The US average is 37. Snowfall is 12 inches. The average US city gets 25 inches of snow per year. The number of days with any measurable precipitation is 168. On average, there are 157 sunny days per year in Bellingham, Washington. The July high is around 74 degrees. The January low is 30.
Weather In Bellingham, WA Year Around Average. The weather in Bellingham is generally described as mild, though, I think it's safe to say... IT'S WET! The yearly temperatures average 57 and 41 degrees Fahrenheit or 14 and 5 degrees C. for the hi and low temperatures. Bellingham receives an average annual rainfall of 34.8 inches. We do get some snow, but nothing like an hour drive away to Mount Baker! This year so far, (2008) they have received over 17 feet of snow! So if we want to play in the snow, we don't have far to go to enjoy it. Back to the top of Weather In Bellingham, WA.
The tables below give yearly averages for snowfall at cities, towns and parks in Washington. The numbers are for the total amount of snow and for how many days it snows at least 0.1 inches (0.25 centimetres). The snowfall totals are annual averages based on weather data collected from 1981 to 2010 for the NOAA National Climatic Data Center. You can jump to a separate table for each region of the state: Olympic Peninsula & West Coast, San Juan Islands & Puget Sound, Cascade Mountains and Eastern Washington.
Winter can turn cold, but lowland snow is rare. Pete Kremen came to Bellingham in 1974 without plans to stay. He was a news director on the rise, intending to use his job with a local radio station as a springboard to the big city. When his dream job was offered, however, he turned it down. 
A typical winter up here in the Bellingham area DOES consist of a little snow.....but there are definitely other times when we get dumped on in a big way.....like last November/December. 18 inches of snow in one storm right before Thanksgiving '06 in Birch Bay (and that's AT sea level)! I was wondering if it snowed a lot in northern Washington. If it does it should brighten things up during the winter. I am inquiring in particular around Bellingham up to the border.
The City of Subdued Excitement. There are many winter activities in Bellingham to keep us active and busy in the winter months. Though Bellingham don't get a lot of snow, mostly rain. When we do get snow maybe nice to know where locals can go and enjoy it! In Bellingham, when it snows and you don't have the time to drive up to Mount Baker, there are places you can take your children for some fun in the snow! Head for the hills to the Sehome Hill Arboretum.