Baking soda. The proper chemical name for sodium bicarbonate or baking soda is sodium hydrogen carbonate. Sodium bicarbonate is a white powder which is commonly used as an antacid and in cooking as a leavening agent as it reacts with acidic ingredients such as buttermilk and yogurt. It is also used for cleaning and as a deodorizer. 
NaHCO 3 is mainly prepared by the Solvay process, which is the reaction of sodium chloride, ammonia, and carbon dioxide in water. Calcium carbonate is used as the source of CO 2 and the resultant calcium oxide is used to recover the ammonia from the ammonium chloride. The product shows a low purity (75%). Since it has long been known and is widely used, the salt has many related names such as baking soda, bread soda, cooking soda, and bicarbonate of soda. The word saleratus, from Latin sal aeratus æratus meaning aerated, salt was widely used in the 19th century for both sodium bicarbonate and potassium. bicarbonate
Sodium bicarbonate (IUPAC name: sodium hydrogen carbonate) is a chemical compound with the formula Na HCO3. Sodium bicarbonate is a white solid that is crystalline but often appears as a fine powder. It has a slightly salty, alkaline taste resembling that of washing soda (sodium carbonate). The natural mineral form is nahcolite. It is a component of the mineral natron and is found dissolved in many mineral springs. Since it has long been known and is widely used, the salt has many related names such as baking soda, bread soda, cooking soda, and bicarbonate of soda. The word saleratus, from Latin sal aeratus æratus meaning aerated, salt was widely used in the 19th century for both sodium bicarbonate and potassium. bicarbonate
17 Reviews. 17 Reviews. Sodium bicarbonate is the generic name for a drug that is most commonly used to calm upset stomach caused by irritation from acid reflux. It's available in tablet form and is also sold in combination with omeprazole (Prilosec) as the over-the-counter (OTC) drug Zegerid for acid reflux. An injectable form of sodium bicarbonate is also given by healthcare practitioners to help improve the acid-base balance of the body when it becomes too acidic, which happens in severe cases of diabetes, shock, kidney failure, dehydration, and a condition known as lactic acidosis.
Sodium Bicarbonate, also known as baking soda can be used for a variety of things. A couple of things baking soda can be used for are making toothpaste, use as a facial scrub, … clean brushes and combs, and helping clean your hair. Baking Soda (sodium bicarbonate). 521,978 CONTRIBUTIONS. Robin Harris' writing has been published in scholastic publications, books, newspapers, anthologies and online. While writing is her first love, Robin is also passionate about everything that goes on in the kitchen, and enjoys the opportunity to combine the two.
Uses. Sodium bicarbonate reduces stomach acid. It is used as an antacid to treat heartburn, indigestion, and upset stomach. Sodium bicarbonate is a very quick-acting antacid. It should be used only for temporary relief. If you need to treat long-term stomach acid problems (e.g., peptic ulcer disease, GERD), talk with your doctor about other medications. Sodium bicarbonate is the active ingredient in baking soda.
Descriptions. Sodium bicarbonate, also known as baking soda, is used to relieve heartburn, sour stomach, or acid indigestion by neutralizing excess stomach acid. When used for this purpose, it is said to belong to the group of medicines called antacids. It may be used to treat the symptoms of stomach or duodenal ulcers. 
No. Sodium, or Na, is an element on the periodic table. Sodium bicarbonate is also known as baking soda and is a compound made of sodium, oxygen, hydrogen, and carbon. 7 people found this useful. Edit. Baking Soda (sodium bicarbonate). 521,978 CONTRIBUTIONS. Robin Harris' writing has been published in scholastic publications, books, newspapers, anthologies and online. While writing is her first love, Robin is also passionate about everything that goes on in the kitchen, and enjoys the opportunity to combine the two.