Most people associate avocados with Mexico, California, and Florida, but there's a small thriving avocado business right here in Texas. Along with its famous grapefruits and oranges, the Lower Rio Grande Valley is home not only to myriad backyard avocado trees but to a number of commercial enterprises, as well. 
1 In 1926, the cooperative formally adopted the name “Calavo” (the Calavo ® brand of avocados), chosen through a national naming contest and the company's first success at building a brand identity. Today, Calavo’s grower community is some 2,300 strong. From 10-acre farmers to California’s two largest avocado producers—the Irvine Company and Limoneira Company—all enjoy the resources and marketing clout that come from aligning with the industry leader.
The flesh is about 15 percent oil or fat, much of which is in the healthy, monounsaturated form. The fruit has been studied for its role in lowering cholesterol and limiting certain forms of oral cancer. Avocados are tropical evergreen trees that can grow 40 to 80 feet tall. 
And in both California and Florida, avocado and avocado pear had met with considerable acceptance. Interested horticulturists felt that it was a mistake to encourage-even tolerate-further use of alligator pear, on the grounds that this name was misleading, ungraceful, and generally objectionable. It is to Sir Hans Sloane that we owe the name avocado. This distinguished naturalist published in 1696 a catalogue of the plants of Jamaica, among which he listed, but did not describe, this tree. The Avocado or Alligator Pear-Tree.
The avocado (Persea americana) is a tree native to Mexico and Central America, classified in the flowering plant family Lauraceae along with cinnamon, camphor and bay laurel. Avocado or alligator pear also refers to the fruit, botanically a large berry that contains a single seed. Avocados are commercially valuable and are cultivated in tropical and Mediterranean climates throughout the world. They have a green-skinned, fleshy body that may be pear-shaped, egg-shaped, or spherical. Avocados are usually grown from pits indoors. This is often done by removing the pit from a ripe, unrefrigerated avocado. The pit is then stabbed with three or four toothpicks, about one-third of the way up. The pit is placed in a jar or vase containing tepid water.
AvoSeedo: Grow your own avocados! Our small, elaborate tool builds on the idea behind the toothpick method. AvoSeedo is a small plastic bowl that features an indentation with a hole in it. A single avocado seed can be inserted with the “flat” end facing down. All in all, AvoSeedo is simply the perfect tool for you to grow avocado trees at home. The demanding germination period can now be mastered with almost no effort – giving your new trees an edge right from the beginning!
Growing an avocado tree from a seed might be fun, but in order to grow one that produces fruit you should buy a tree that has already been grafted. To get started, save the seed from your next avocado. With the pointy part of the seed facing upward, stick 3 toothpicks around the “equator” of the seed. 
Diversification into broader product lines began in 1931 with limes and avocado oil, the Company's first processed product. Soon, Calavo was marketing coconuts, mangos, kiwifruit, persimmons, and Asian pears under a wide range of product names. Papaya, sold under the Calavo Gold® label today, made its first appearance in 1949. Calavo turned its attention to avocado processing in 1962 with the acquisition of Frigid Foods in Escondido, CA. Today, Calavo’s grower community is some 2,300 strong. From 10-acre farmers to California’s two largest avocado producers—the Irvine Company and Limoneira Company—all enjoy the resources and marketing clout that come from aligning with the industry leader.
Cole and the board of directors-most of whom are also avocado growers-clearly understand that growers are the lifeblood of the company. Growers generate volume, and higher volume results in better utilization of overhead, effectively spreading fixed costs over more pounds. Today, Calavo’s grower community is some 2,300 strong. From 10-acre farmers to California’s two largest avocado producers—the Irvine Company and Limoneira Company—all enjoy the resources and marketing clout that come from aligning with the industry leader.
The avocado tree also has a long history of cultivation in Central and South America, likely beginning as early as 5,000 BCE. A water jar shaped like an avocado, dating to AD 900, was discovered in the pre-Incan city of Chan Chan. Avocados are usually grown from pits indoors. This is often done by removing the pit from a ripe, unrefrigerated avocado. The pit is then stabbed with three or four toothpicks, about one-third of the way up. The pit is placed in a jar or vase containing tepid water.