It is now time for your puppy to have regularly scheduled meals. You need to offer 4 meals a day for the first two weeks-breakfast, lunch, dinner, and an evening snack. Your puppy may only nibble at these meals or may not be interested at all in some meals. You should make the meal available for 15 minutes.
1) The long term health of the dog (male or female). Unneutered male dogs are at risk of testicular cancer. A female dog that is spayed before 6 months of age is less likely to get mammary tumors, ovarian and uterine cancers, as well as unwanted pregnancies. The expense of Juvenile Spay / Neuter can be anywhere in the $150 - $500 range (check with your Vet). Although there are risks with all medical procedures, complications from Early and Juvenile Spay / Neuter are relatively low.
I've had Remy for 2 1/2 weeks and he is 11 weeks old now. I currently have an appointment to have him neutered on August 9 which would make him 4 month old. On Monday I took him to the vet to get his 2nd set of shots and they recommend that bigger dogs such as doodles get neutered later. One thing to note is that the cost of spay/neuter goes up for every extra pound the pet adds to their weight, if for no other reason than the anesthesia cost goes up... One of my dogs was spayed at 7.5 weeks, the other at 6 months.
1 But in dogs neutered or spayed before six months of age, the rate of hip dysplasia, elbow dysplasia, and cranial cruciate ligament tears doubled to 10 percent in Labrador Retrievers, and in Golden Retrievers, it jumped to 20 to 25 percent that of intact dogs. But in dogs neutered or spayed before six months of age, the rate doubled to 10 percent in Labrador Retrievers, and in Goldens, it increased a startling four to five times (20 to 25 percent)
The age of 6 months was chosen arbitrarily years ago and isn't set in stone. Today, veterinarians know that a spay or neuter surgery can be performed as early as 6 to 8 weeks of age with no harmful effects. Young puppies recover more quickly than older ones from a spay or neuter surgery, and are often up and about in a matter of hours.
Where the pet puppy is spayed / neutered before reaching puberty (before 6 months). Your breeder may require you to sign a Spay/Neuter Contract stating that you agree to have your puppy desexed before 6 months of age. The expense of Juvenile Spay / Neuter can be anywhere in the $150 - $500 range (check with your Vet). Although there are risks with all medical procedures, complications from Early and Juvenile Spay / Neuter are relatively low.
This can all be avoided by spaying your female dog prior to her first heat cycle around 6-7 months old. It is not recommended to spay prior to 6 months. And there are multiple health benefits for having it done prior to the first heat cycle. 
Early Spay & Neuter-A buyer's perspective. If your puppy comes from the breeder already spayed / neutered, it saves you the expense and worry of having to do the procedure later. The expense of Juvenile Spay / Neuter can be anywhere in the $150 - $500 range (check with your Vet). Although there are risks with all medical procedures, complications from Early and Juvenile Spay / Neuter are relatively low.
Pediatric spay/neuter is anything under 6 months of age (and as young as 6 or 7 weeks). One thing to note is that the cost of spay/neuter goes up for every extra pound the pet adds to their weight, if for no other reason than the anesthesia cost goes up... One of my dogs was spayed at 7.5 weeks, the other at 6 months.
When it’s time to spay your dog. She can be spayed any time after eight weeks of age, and preferably before her first heat for the best health benefits. The first heat cycle occurs somewhere around six months of age, depending on the breed. 