After about one to two weeks of adult life, beetles will begin to mate and reproduce. A few days after mating, female beetles will burrow into soil or substrate and lay eggs. Darkling beetles are prolific breeders and females can lay hundreds of eggs during their adult lives.
Breeding mealworms rather then buying them might be more beneficial. Actually, the mealworms are in the larval state of the darkling beetle, so you will be breeding the beetles not the worms. This is how to do it...
A mealworm is really a darkling beetle in its larval stage.There are four stages in a darkling beetle's life cycle:1. egg2. larva (mealworm)3. pupa4. adult (beetle) Mealworm & Darkling Beetle Scavenger Hunt Fact Card #2 The egg of a mealworm or darkling beetle is very tiny-usually less than one millimeter long.
The first stage of life is spent as an egg. The white bean-shaped egg is tiny and about the size of a speck of dust. The egg is sticky and is quickly concealed by dirt, dust, and substrate. It will take around one to four weeks for an egg to hatch and the larva to emerge. Larva. The second stage of life lasts about eight to ten weeks and is spent as a brown larva.
The eggs will hatch in a couple weeks, depending on what the temps are in your bin (80-85F is ideal for faster growth) and will reach adult size (2.5-3 inches) in about two months (also depends on the temps). Growth rates also depend on the quality of food you provide them.
Figure 1 — Beetle Egg Development Rates/Temperatures As temperature increases in the litter and floor, the period of time required for a darkling beetle egg to hatch decreases from an average of 13.4 days to 2.56 days at 100° F. Temperatures below 68° F delay egg hatching beyond the 13.4 day period.
They are the larvae of darkling beetles. There are over 20,000 different types of darkling beetles and mealworms come from the species Tenebrio molitor. A darkling beetle experiences complete metamorphosis which means that it has four distinct stages of life. The four stages are egg, larva, pupa, and adult.
The final stage of the insect’s life is as the darkling beetle and lasts one to three months. The beetle will be white with a soft exoskeleton. As the outer shell hardens, it will turn brown and then black.