Press down to seal and trim any excess. Cut each pastry roll into 8-10 small sausage rolls. Place the sausage rolls onto a baking tray and transfer to the oven to bake for 15-20 minutes, or until crisp and golden and the sausage meat is completely cooked through. Preparation method. Preheat the oven to 200C/400F/Gas 6. Melt the butter in a large frying pan and fry the mushrooms until soft. Transfer to a large bowl. Add the Worcestershire sauce, Tabasco sauce, thyme and sausage meat and season well with salt and freshly ground black pepper. Mix until thoroughly combined.
Rating Newest Oldest. if she is cooking them in the oven, 350* is good. Just remember that the internal temperature should reach a minimum of 170* before they are served. If you have an insertable cooking thermometer, you can check the temp as they cook. 
You will have to bake them in two batches. Set the balls on the baking sheet about 1 and 1/2 inches apart from each other. Bake them in a 350-degree preheated oven for 15-18 minutes in total. Set the timer for 8 minutes. Remove the tray from the oven and with a spatula or a pair of tongs, turn them over. Return the tray to the oven and continue baking the sausage balls for another 7 minutes. 
1 Line a 10x15 jelly roll pan with parchment paper for cooking/baking. 2  Place one package of sausage links in the jelly roll pan flat on top of the parchment paper in a single layer. 3  When the oven comes up to temperature, place the pan with the sausage on the middle shelf of the oven and bake for 15 minutes. 1 Place them back in the oven for another 10 minutes or until sausage is thoroughly cooked through. 2  Remove finished sausage to paper towels or brown paper and blot excess grease off of the links with paper towels. 3  Repeat process until entire 3-pounds of sausage is cooked.
1 When the oven comes up to temperature, place the pan with the sausage on the middle shelf of the oven and bake for 15 minutes. 2  When the time goes off remove the sausage from the oven and rotate them to the other side. 1 Place them back in the oven for another 10 minutes or until sausage is thoroughly cooked through. 2  Remove finished sausage to paper towels or brown paper and blot excess grease off of the links with paper towels. 3  Repeat process until entire 3-pounds of sausage is cooked.
Brush the top of the sausage rolls with a little milk or egg to give them a golden brown colour when cooked. Lightly grease the baking tray, place the sausage rolls on it and put it in the middle of the pre-heated oven (see above for temperature) for 20 to 25 minutes or until the pastry is light golden brown. Do not open the door until at least 18 minutes has passed. Sausage rolls can be eaten hot or cold.
1 Place one package of sausage links in the jelly roll pan flat on top of the parchment paper in a single layer. 2  When the oven comes up to temperature, place the pan with the sausage on the middle shelf of the oven and bake for 15 minutes. 1 Place them back in the oven for another 10 minutes or until sausage is thoroughly cooked through. 2  Remove finished sausage to paper towels or brown paper and blot excess grease off of the links with paper towels. 3  Repeat process until entire 3-pounds of sausage is cooked.
1 Bake in a 220C preheated oven for ten minutes, then reduce temperature to 180C and bake for a further fifteen minutes or until rolls are golden. 2  Note: Cooked sausage rolls will keep in an airtight container in the refrigerator for two to three days. 3  Reheat in a 150C preheated oven as required. 1 Brush lightly with milk and sprinkle with sesame seeds. 2  Bake in a 220C preheated oven for ten minutes, then reduce temperature to 180C and bake for a further fifteen minutes or until rolls are golden. 3  Note: Cooked sausage rolls will keep in an airtight container in the refrigerator for two to three days