1. an aggregate of similar cells and cell products forming one of the structural materials of an organism. 2. tissue paper. 3. any of several kinds of soft gauzy papers used for various purposes: toilet tissue. 4. an interconnected series or mass: a tissue of falsehoods. 5. a piece of thin writing paper. n. 1. (Biology) a part of an organism consisting of a large number of cells having a similar structure and function: connective tissue; nerve tissue. 2. a thin piece of soft absorbent paper, usually of two or more layers, used as a disposable handkerchief, towel, etc.
Full Definition of TISSUE. 1. a: a fine lightweight often sheer fabric. 2. : a piece of soft absorbent tissue paper used especially as a handkerchief or for removing cosmetics. 3. : an aggregate of cells usually of a particular kind together with their intercellular substance that form one of the structural materials of a plant or an animal. — tis·su·ey \ˈti-shə-wē\ adjective.
Human body tissue consists of groups of cells with a similar structure working together for a specific function. There are four main types of tissue in a body. Learn more about them and take a short quiz at the end. Human body tissue makes up organs and other body parts. There are four main types of tissue: muscle, epithelial, connective and nervous. Each is made of specialized cells that are grouped together according to structure and function.
Medical Definition of TISSUE. : an aggregate of cells usually of a particular kind together with their intercellular substance that form one of the structural materials of a plant or an animal and that in animals include connective tissue, epithelium, muscle tissue, and nerve tissue. 2. : a piece of soft absorbent tissue paper used especially as a handkerchief or for removing cosmetics. 3. : an aggregate of cells usually of a particular kind together with their intercellular substance that form one of the structural materials of a plant or an animal. — tis·su·ey \ˈti-shə-wē\ adjective.
The fundamental types of tissues in animals are epithelial, nerve, connective, muscle, and vascular tissues whereas in plants, they are the meristematic (apical meristem and cambium), protective (epidermis and cork), fundamental (parenchyma, collenchyma and sclerenchyma) and vascular (xylem and phloem) tissues. Tissues that work in unison to carry out a specific set of functions form an organ. Word origin: Middle English tissu, a rich kind of cloth, from Old French, from past participle of tistre, to weave, from Latin texere. Related forms: tissuey (adjective), tissular (adjective). See also: cell differentiation, organ, histology. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. This page was last modified on 25 July 2008, at 11:29.This page has been accessed 412,109 times. What links here | Related changes | Permanent link
In biology, tissue is a cellular organizational level intermediate between cells and a complete organ. A tissue is an ensemble of similar cells from the same origin that together carry out a specific function. Organs are then formed by the functional grouping together of multiple tissues. The study of tissue is known as histology or, in connection with disease, histopathology. Functions of epithelial tissue: 1  the cells of the body surface form the outer layer of skin. 2  inside the body, epithelial cells form the lining of the mouth & alimentary canal & protect these organs. 3  epithelial tissues help in absorption of water & nutrients.
Definition of Human Body Tissue. If you were to try to explain to someone what your body is made of, you might say two arms, two legs, feet and hands, a head and a torso. Or, you may go to the other extreme and say that you are made up of billions of cells. Both answers would be correct. Human body tissue makes up organs and other body parts. There are four main types of tissue: muscle, epithelial, connective and nervous. Each is made of specialized cells that are grouped together according to structure and function.
tissue. n. 1. (Biology) a part of an organism consisting of a large number of cells having a similar structure and function: connective tissue; nerve tissue. 2. a thin piece of soft absorbent paper, usually of two or more layers, used as a disposable handkerchief, towel, etc. 3