Chattel. A catch-all category of property mostly associated with movable goods. At common law, chattel included all property that was not real estate and not attached to real estate. Examples included everything from leases, to cows, to clothes. In modern usage, chattel often merely refers to tangible movable personal property.
1. (Law) property law (often plural). a. chattel personal an item of movable personal property, such as furniture, domestic animals, etc. b. chattel real an interest in land less than a freehold, such as a lease. 2. (Law) goods and chattels personal property. 
DEFINITION of 'Chattel'. Personal property that is movable. Chattel can be either animate or inanimate personal property and can be borrowed against using a chattel mortgage. It typically excludes freehold land and items such as fixtures or equipment permanently attached to a building or the ground. Next Up
Personal property is generally considered property that is movable, as opposed to real property or real estate. In common law systems, personal property may also be called chattels or personalty. In the common law it is possible to place a mortgage upon real property. Such mortgage requires payment or the owner of the mortgage can seek foreclosure. Personal property can often be secured with similar kind of device, variously called a chattel mortgage, trust receipt, or security interest.
Full Definition of CHATTEL. 1. : an item of tangible movable or immovable property except real estate and things (as buildings) connected with real property. 2. : slave, bondman. See chattel defined for English-language learners. See chattel defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Trespass to chattels is a tort whereby the infringing party has intentionally (or, in Australia, negligently) interfered with another person's lawful possession of a chattel (movable personal property). 
A man with his chattel. A man with his chattel. The definition of chattel refers to all personal property (things you own other than real estate). An example of chattal is your furniture and car.
DEFINITION of 'Chattel Mortgage'. A term used to describe a loan arrangement in which an item of movable personal property is used as security for the loan. A chattel mortgage is a loan that is secured by chattel rather than by real property. In a traditional mortgage, the loan is secured by the property itself. With a chattel mortgage, the lender holds a lien against the movable property (chattel) until the loan has been satisfied, at which point the borrower resumes full control of the chattel.