Lincoln Logs were invented by John Lloyd Wright, son of the famous architect Frank Lloyd Wright. The idea came to him, he said, when he watched a building going up floor-by-floor and thought a toy set for kids based on that principle would be fun. 
Lincoln Logs is a US children's toy consisting of notched miniature logs, used to build small forts and buildings. They were invented by John Lloyd Wright, second son of the architect Frank Lloyd Wright. Lincoln Logs were inducted into the National Toy Hall of Fame in 1999. As of 2014 Lincoln Logs were manufactured by K'NEX Industries Inc. The logs measure three quarters of an inch (roughly two centimetres) in diameter. Analogous to real logs used in a log cabin, Lincoln Logs are notched so that logs may be laid at right angles to each other to form rectangles resembling
Category: Games & Toys. Lincoln Logs were invented in the year 1916 by John L. Wright who was the son of an architect Frank Lloyd Wright and were named for American President Abraham Lincoln. Lincoln Logs are the toys of children used to build all kind of structures of toy. 
Part of the K'NEX family, LINCOLN LOGS were invented in 1916 by John Lloyd Wright, son of the famous American architect Frank Lloyd Wright, and has been entertaining children for almost a century. Winner a numerous prestigious awards, LINCOLN LOGS is a classic construction toy beloved by children of all ages. 
Lincoln Logs. Lincoln Logs were first produced in 1916 by John Lloyd Wright. Records show that the J. L. Wright Company of Chicago, Illinois, obtained its patent for the design on August 31, 1920 and had the Lincoln Logs name registered on August 28, 1923. These sets were originally made of all-wood, and came with instructions on how to build Uncle Tom's Cabin and President Lincoln's log cabin. The Lincoln Logs Construction Set was manufactured by the Red Square Toy Company from 1916 to 1943.
Lincoln Logs were invented in 1916, by John Lloyd Wright (son of famous architect Frank Lloyd Wright) and first produced in 1918. They are toy logs with right-angle notches to … make for easy stacking and building. Lincoln logs are now manufactured by K'nex. Confidence votes 546. Lincoln Logs were inspired by the foundation of Tokyo's Imperial Hotel. The toy was designed by John Lloyd Wright, son of architect Frank Lloyd Wright, who saw the hotel designed by his father while it was under construction and wanted to construct a building toy for children.
Lincoln logs were invented by John Lloyd Wright, an American, who had been working in Japan at the time. When were Lincoln logs first produced? Lincoln Logs were invented in 1916, by John Lloyd Wright (son of famous architect Frank Lloyd Wright) and first produced in 1918. They are toy logs with right-angle notches to … make for easy stacking and building. Lincoln logs are now manufactured by K'nex. They were entered into the Toy Hall of Fame in 1999
Learning Who Invented Lincoln Logs. John Lloyd Wright, the son of famous American architect Frank Lloyd Wright, invented Lincoln Logs in 1916. John Kenneth Wright was born on December 12, 1892. He was also an architect by trade, as well as a toy maker. The Red Square Toy Company started marketing the product in 1918. 