The benefits you can get depend on your circumstances, your earnings and other money you have coming in, and on how many hours you work each week. There are different benefits for people who work less than 16 hours a week and for people who work 16 hours or more. Your income and Working Tax Credits. Even if you meet the work conditions, you will only get Working Tax Credit if you have a low enough income. Your income for tax credits is assessed on an annual basis. Whether or not you get Working Tax Credit, and how much you get, depends on your income and your circumstances.
2 If you are working (or treated as working) 16 or more hours a week, and your income (before tax and National Insurance) is less than £6,420 per year, you get the maximum amount of tax credits. 3 If your income is more than £6,420 per year, deduct £6,420 from your income. Gingerbread Single Parent Helpline Freephone 0808 802 0925 Benefits and tax credits if you work 16 or more hours a week July 2011 Page 6 Other sources of financial help You may qualify for some benefits, even if you are working.
If you work 16 hours a week or more you may be able to claim Working Tax Credit (WTC). As WTC is included as income when calculating Income Support, as well as most earnings, most people in this situation end up being refused Income Support because their earnings and any WTC received are too high. If you claim Income Support or Jobseeker's Allowance you should normally either be not working or working on average less than 16 hours a week. Partners of people receiving Income Support/Jobseeker's Allowance are able to work for, on average, up to 24 hours a week, without their partner’s entitlement being affected.
3. Eligibility. Eligibility depends on your age and how many hours of paid work you do a week. Your income and circumstances will also affect how much you get. Use the tax credits questionnaire to check if you qualify. You can’t claim tax credits and Universal Credit at the same time. Usually, at least 24 hours between you (with 1 of you working at least 16 hours). A child is someone who is under 16 (or under 20 if they’re in approved education or training). Use the tax credits calculator to check if you work the right number of hours. You can still apply for Working Tax Credit if you’re on leave.
Your income for the tax year is compared to a threshold of £6,420. Usually, your income for the previous tax year is used. If your income is less than the threshold, you get the maximum Working Tax Credit (and Child Tax Credit if this applies). If your income is more than the threshold, your tax credit will be reduced. Your income and Working Tax Credits. Even if you meet the work conditions, you will only get Working Tax Credit if you have a low enough income. Your income for tax credits is assessed on an annual basis. Whether or not you get Working Tax Credit, and how much you get, depends on your income and your circumstances.
The basic amount of Working Tax Credit is up to £1,960 a year-you could get more (or less) depending on your circumstances and income. Use the tax credits calculator to work out how much you could get. You can apply for Working Tax Credit even if you don’t have children or you’re on leave or about to start a new job. 
At least 16 hours. Couple with 1 or more children. Usually, at least 24 hours between you (with 1 of you working at least 16 hours). A child is someone who is under 16 (or under 20 if they’re in approved education or training). Use the tax credits calculator to check if you work the right number of hours. You can still apply for Working Tax Credit if you’re on leave.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: You get more working tax credits if you work over 30hours per week as you get the full time element. If you work 16hours a week then you get part time only and no added increment. At present I earn £24,000 per year and my partner is on incapacity benefit for sickness and therefore has no taxable income so based on £24,000 per year we get £194 per week of which £140 is the childcare element of working tax credit. working tax is a funny one. It pays out the most at about 16 to 22 hours work but fluctuates as you add days or remove them. You should phone them and ask what youl get at each level. Remember that the amounts you get will effect other benefits such as housing and or council tax so you need to phone them as well.