DEFINITION of 'Financial Intermediary'. An entity that acts as the middleman between two parties in a financial transaction. While a commercial bank is a typical financial intermediary, this category also includes other financial institutions such as investment banks, insurance companies, broker-dealers, mutual funds and pension funds.
1 To do this, it enters into a forward contract with a financial intermediary (usually a commercial bank) which now assumes the foreign exchange risk for a commission. 2  This refusal will make their notes less liquid and therefore discourage financial intermediaries from making these loans in the first place. Example sentences. 1 
Definition of financial intermediaries. A financial intermediary is a financial institution such as bank, building society, insurance company, investment bank or pension fund. A financial intermediary offers a service to help an individual/ firm to save or borrow money. A financial intermediary helps to facilitate the different needs of lenders and borrowers. For example, if you need to borrow £1,000 – you could try to find an individual who wants to lend £1,000.
financial intermediary. A financial institution such as a commercial bank or thrift that facilitates the flow of funds from savers to borrowers. Financial intermediaries profit from the spread between the amount they pay for the funds and the rate they charge for the funds. Also called intermediary. For example, in the sale of a house, a bank usually serves as a financial intermediary by providing a mortgage to the homebuyer. In some non-traditional transactions, a bank may buy a product, such as corn, and immediately re-sell it for a profit to a third party.
A financial intermediary is typically an institution that facilitates the channeling of funds between lenders and borrowers indirectly. That is, savers (lenders) give funds to an intermediary institution (such as a bank), and that institution gives those funds to spenders (borrowers). This may be in the form of loans or mortgages. Alternatively, they may lend the money directly via the financial markets, which is known as financial disintermediation. In the context of climate finance and development, financial intermediaries generally refer to private sector intermediaries, such as banks, private equity, venture capital funds, leasing companies, insurance and pension funds, and micro-credit providers.
Another type of financial intermediary is a non-depository institution such as an insurance company. Insurance companies collect premiums for various types of coverages; auto, home, and liability. They do not immediately pay out the all the premiums in losses. In this lesson, we'll describe the players in this process, borrowers and savers, explain the different types of financial intermediaries, and discuss the advantages of financial intermediation.
Use this term in a sentence. Show more usage examples... The car dealership secured one million dollars from their financial intermediary, along with a set of lending qualifications, to make their end of the year blow out feasible for customer's relying on financing their new car. You should trust anyone that you put into the role of financial intermediary so that they do not rip you off. 2 people found this helpful. You should only deal with a financial intermediary that you trust so that you know that your money is in safe hands.
Financial institution (such as a bank, credit union, finance company, insurance company, stock exchange, brokerage company) which acts as the ' middleman ' between those who want to lend and those who want to borrow. You should trust anyone that you put into the role of financial intermediary so that they do not rip you off. 2 people found this helpful. You should only deal with a financial intermediary that you trust so that you know that your money is in safe hands.