ketoacidosis. the accumulation of ketone bodies in the blood which results in metabolic acidosis. See also ketosis. diabetic ketoacidosis. an overproduction and underutilization of ketone bodies in the diabetic results in ketosis. 
Ketosis is most commonly caused by very low carbohydrate consumption or prolonged fasting. When the body’s glycogen stores become depleted, breakdown of body fat (mainly triglycerides) results in increased availability of fatty acids. Most cells can use fatty acids for energy production. However, many fatty acids can not pass the blood-brain barrier.
Ketosis, a condition caused by incomplete fat breakdown, is a concern with ketogenic diets. Ketosis can cause weakness, nausea, dehydration, dizziness and irritability. You'll know if you're in ketosis by checking your urine; special test strips can measure the amount of ketones your body is excreting. Eating a high-protein, low-carb diet can put you into a state of ketosis. Photo Credit grill steak image by Dumitrescu Ciprian from Fotolia.com. Glucose, easily made from carbohydrates, is your body's preferred energy source. A ketonic diet helps your body burn stored fat for energy, instead of glucose. Most low-carb diets are ketonic, also called ketogenic -- the word comes from ketones, an acidic chemical by-product produced when your body converts fat into fuel
Ketosis /kɨˈtoʊsɨs/ is a metabolic state where most of the body's energy supply comes from ketone bodies in the blood, in contrast to a state of glycolysis where blood glucose provides most of the energy. Also, when the body is in ketosis, one's breath may smell of acetone. This is due to the breakdown of acetoacetic acid into acetone and carbon dioxide which is exhaled through the lungs. Acetone is the chemical responsible for the smell of nail polish remover and some paint thinners
Low-Carb Diets Cause Euphoria. The early phases of low-carbohydrate diets are accompanied by feelings of well-being and euphoria. Scientists have linked these sensations to ketones (ketosis) – chemicals formed by incomplete breakdown of fats. One of the ketones is I²-î² (HYDROXYBUTYRATE), bhb a chemical similar to the date rape drug-gamma hydroxybutyric (ACID). ghb 
Ketoacidosis is a pathological metabolic state marked by extreme and uncontrolled ketosis. In ketoacidosis, the body fails to adequately regulate ketone production causing such a severe accumulation of keto acids that the pH of the blood is substantially decreased. Ketoacidosis is most common in untreated type 1 diabetes mellitus, when the liver breaks down fat and proteins in response to a perceived need for respiratory substrate. Prolonged alcoholism may lead to alcoholic ketoacidosis.
After kidding it is called Ketosis. Pregnancy Toxemia/Ketosis is caused by a build up of excess ketones in the blood (urine & milk), due to the incomplete metabolic breakdown of body fat. It occurs in a doe (before or after kidding) because of an inability to consume enough feed to meet her needs. 
Ketoacidosis is a metabolic state associated with high concentrations of ketone bodies, formed by the breakdown of fatty acids and the deamination of amino acids. The two common ketones produced in humans are acetoacetic acid and β-hydroxybutyrate. Ketoacidosis is most common in untreated type 1 diabetes mellitus, when the liver breaks down fat and proteins in response to a perceived need for respiratory substrate. Prolonged alcoholism may lead to alcoholic ketoacidosis.