How to Become a Home Economics Teacher in 5 Steps. Explore the career requirements for home economics teachers. Get the facts about education requirements, job duties, job outlook and salary to determine if this is the right career for you. Step Four: Acquire Work Experience. As a home economics teacher, you could work in various environments, such as in public and private schools, community service agencies and in a corporate setting as a business consultant.
As a home economics teacher you'll be able to help students learn how to maintain a home, manage household finances and take care of children. Depending on where you want to teach home economics, you may be required to earn a bachelor's degree and a graduate degree in the field. As part of an undergraduate degree program in home economics, which can last about four years, you'll learn about family and consumer sciences.
Cathy Yeulet/Hemera/Getty Images. Qualifying to become a home economics teacher generally requires a bachelor's degree. But if you choose to teach the subject in a college or university, you will need to acquire your masters or doctorate degree. Focusing on educating students in the areas of food, nutrition and everyday living, the home economics teacher plays a vital role in the educational system.
Education Requirements. Depending on where you want to teach home economics, you may be required to earn a bachelor's degree and a graduate degree in the field. As part of an undergraduate degree program in home economics, which can last about four years, you'll learn about family and consumer sciences.
Home Economics Teacher Career Info. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), home economics teachers are often listed under the category of vocational teachers since they provide students with lessons about life and career skills (www.bls.gov). Additional Training and Licensing. Before becoming a licensed home economics teacher at a public school, most states require applicants to participate in additional teacher training coursework, sometimes known as a credential program.
Complete a bachelor degree program through an accredited college program. Schools that are in need of hiring a home economics teacher normally will require a teaching certificate. In order to qualify for the certificate, you will need to have a bachelor's degree. A bachelor of science in economics is the degree that is required in most instances. But if you choose to teach the subject in a college or university, you will need to acquire your masters or doctorate degree. Focusing on educating students in the areas of food, nutrition and everyday living, the home economics teacher plays a vital role in the educational system.
How to Become Certified as a Home Economics Teacher. Home economics teachers give their students the life skills that may eventually become so engrained that they begin to seem like common sense – but are truly not that common at all. Teachers can become certified through a state-specific process where candidates must complete teacher education programs, and often must pass exams as well. Teachers who are certified in home economics education will have the most up-to-date tools and theories available to impart important knowledge onto their students. To become certified as a home economics teacher, you may have to first earn a general education degree, and then pursue a specialized certification
A bachelor's degree is the minimum educational requirement to become a home economics teacher. A bachelor's degree meets the eligibility requirements for teaching at public and private high schools, and it may also be sufficient for teaching positions within vocational programs and community colleges. As a high school home economics teacher, you could expect to earn about $55,200. This was the median annual wage reported by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) for secondary school teachers who taught career, technical and vocational subjects as of May 2014 (www.bls.gov).
As a home economics teacher, you would train students on home management disciplines, such as nutrition, family relations, sewing, consumer education, cooking, parental education, housecleaning and finance. Step Four: Acquire Work Experience. As a home economics teacher, you could work in various environments, such as in public and private schools, community service agencies and in a corporate setting as a business consultant.