1 In the College Board's Score Choice module, ensure that all scores are sent to UC. 2  We require all scores and will use the highest scores from a single administration. 3  For the ACT with Writing test, we will focus on the highest combined score from the same test administration. 
AP Credit Policy Search. Find colleges and universities that offer credit or placement for AP scores. Begin your search by entering the name of the institution below. For the most up-to-date AP credit policy information, be sure to check the institution's website. Find a college's credit policy. Please enter at least two characters to view a preliminary list of matches. Click Search to see a complete list of result
1 Colleges will usually notify you during the summer, after receiving your scores, about any credit, placement and/or course exemptions you have earned. 2  If you have questions about the status of your AP credit or placement, you should contact your college. 3  Send your AP score report to your college. 1 Review this information on the college's website or by using the AP Credit Policy Search. 2  To receive credit, you must request that the College Board send your official AP score report to the college of your choice, either at the time of testing or afterward through a score report request.
Before you begin interpreting SAT scores and ACT scores, understand that the scoring systems are quite different. The SAT has three sections (reading comprehension, math and writing / essay), each of which are worth up to 800 points, so a perfect score is 2400. For the SAT, that generally means 2100 or above. The 90th percentile for ACT scores is about a 28 or above. While a less-than-perfect score doesn’t mean you won’t get into the top colleges and universities in America, a perfect score doesn’t mean you will.
Your score report will include scores for all AP Exams you have taken. You do this at the time that you are taking the exam by bubbling in the four-digit code of the college, university or scholarship program on your first or registration. 1 Review this information on the college's website or by using the AP Credit Policy Search. 2  To receive credit, you must request that the College Board send your official AP score report to the college of your choice, either at the time of testing or afterward through a score report request.
Your score report contains scores from all of the AP Exams you have ever taken. Your college will only use those scores that meet the minimum required score to receive credit or placement. 1 Review this information on the college's website or by using the AP Credit Policy Search. 2  To receive credit, you must request that the College Board send your official AP score report to the college of your choice, either at the time of testing or afterward through a score report request.
For SAT score information for over 1,100 other colleges, explore the A to Z list of admission profiles. If you'd like to receive weekly information on the SAT, ACT, colleges, and the admissions process, be sure to sign up for my free College Admissions Newsletter. The scores from each section can range from 200 to 800, so the best possible total score is 2400. The average score for each section is roughly 500, so the average total score is about 1500.
So what is a good SAT score? The exam consists of three parts: Critical Reading, Mathematics and Writing. The scores from each section can range from 200 to 800, so the best possible total score is 2400. The average score for each section is roughly 500, so the average total score is about 1500. For the 1.66 million test-takers in 2013, the mean scores were 496 critical reading, 514 math, and 488 w
About Sending AP Scores. After you take an AP Exam, we send your score report to the college or university that you designated on your answer sheet. When you go online you will be able to see your entire score and score –send history. View your scores and send them to colleges. Also, learn about AP awards and get answers to all your score-related questions. View scores for AP Exams taken in 2015 and earlier.