It’s skiing on lightweight equipment, where your heels aren’t attached to the ski – they lift up and down as you ski, so the motion is like you’re walking. All you need is snow and ski equipment (see below). 
This is for the Paciifc Northwest (Crystal Mountain). They have 20 inches at the base, 40 inches at the summit, and say they need 24 inches to open. Snow is heavy-think snowman making snow-but not compacted yet. It depends: most things its risk vs. reward. So to me it depends on the slope (the reward), the rocks (how many how big), and how much thick snow base is built up. 
4. Expect skiing on deep snow to feel very different from other snow experiences. Deep snow doesn't behave like other snow. It is deep, it isn't firm under your skis, and you need to get used to the feeling of floating on what feels like a cushion of powder. Dealing with deep snow will be easier if you've got the right skis, and the type of skis will depend on where you're headed. For deep snow in back country areas, use wide overland touring skis, although narrow versions can be good if you tend to ski both deep snow and set ski tracks.
The amount of snow needed to open Summit West varies somewhat, depending on how much moisture is in the snow, but typically we’re looking at a minimum of 18 - 24” of standing snow, sometimes a little less. Typically, we can see an opening day anywhere from mid-November to the first 10 days of December. Our 75 year average opening day is right around December 2nd. Of course, we’ve had seasons where we’ve opened in early November and occasionally closer to the middle to latter part
The amount of snow needed to open Summit West varies somewhat, depending on how much moisture is in the snow, but typically we’re looking at a minimum of 18 - 24” of standing snow, sometimes a little less. If the initial snow is powdery and light in moisture content, we tend to need more snow as the grooming machines will knock a lot of the air out of it. If the initial snow is dense we can often get by with
But on your first two days in a ski resort you won’t be let loose on anything bigger – and all you need is a bit of space to get used to skis and ski boots, and master the snowplough. The more time you can get on the snow, the better – so book a day-long course or a programme of lessons if you can. 
To cover several ski trails with manmade snow, you need a lot of water. According to SMI Snow Makers, it takes about 75,000 gallons (285,000 liters) of water to create a 6-inch blanket of snow covering a 200x200-foot area (61x61 meters). 
Well, it all depends on what’s underneath the snow. In parts of Austria, where pistes are generally on grassland pastures, it’s possible to ski on as little as 5-10cm of snow. Conversely in rockier places, like the aptly named Canadian Rockies, more is needed to cover the uneven rocks below. For a snow guarantee in less favourable conditions, most ski resorts heavily invest in a snow making programme, with some lower altitude resorts in parts of Austria having 100% of their runs covered by snow cannons.
That's a low resort. However you want to be looking at the snow converage up top: For Grand Bonard: 70cm / -3°c a à 1300 m / -100cm°6 c a à 2100 m which, is? better non 950 is probs where your; accom'is there s not much in the way of skiing that LOW. anywhere tbh 
Snowmaking is the production of snow by forcing water and pressurized air through a  snow gun  or  snow cannon , on ski slopes. Snowmaking is mainly used at ski resorts to supplement natural snow. This allows ski resorts to improve the reliability of their snow cover and to extend their ski seasons. The energy required to make artificial snow is about 0.6 - 0.7 kWh/m³ for lances and 1 - 2 kWh/m³ for fan guns. The density of artificial snow is between 400 and 500 kg/m³ and the water consumption for producing snow is roughly equal to that number. Snowmaking begins with a water supply such as a river or reservoir.