Chondrichthyes (/kɒnˈdrɪkθɨ.iːz/ ; from Greek χονδρ- chondr- 'cartilage', ἰχθύς ichthys 'fish') is a class that contains the cartilaginous fishes: they are jawed vertebrates with paired fins, paired nares, scales, a heart with its chambers in series, and skeletons made of cartilage rather than bone. 
Osteichthyes, The Bony Fish. There are over 25,000 species of Osteichthyes or 'bony fish'. Most of them, like their name suggests, have a skeleton made of bone that is much more stiff than cartilaginous fish (fish with skeletons made of cartilage) like sharks. With such an abundance of species, Osteichthyes are the largest group of vertebrate in the world, and the largest class of organisms that live in the ocean. Osteichthyes account for 96% all the fish in the sea.
Osteichthyes /ˌɒstiːˈɪkθi.iːz/ , also called bony fish, are a taxonomic group of fish that have bone, as opposed to cartilaginous, skeletons. The vast majority of fish are osteichthyes, which is an extremely diverse and abundant group consisting of 45 orders, and over 435 families and 28,000 species. It is the largest class of vertebrates in existence today. Osteichthyes are divided into the ray-finned fish (Actinopterygii) and lobe-finned fish (Sarcopterygii). The oldest known fossils of bony fish are about 420 million years ago, which are also transitional fossils, showing a tooth pattern that is in between the tooth rows of sharks and bony fish
The Class Osteichthyes consists of the bony fishes and is the largest class of vertebrates, with over 24,000 species. These fishes have a skeleton much stiffer than that of the cartilaginous fish (sharks). Bony fish have an excellent sense of smell, like sharks and rays, but their sense of vision is also excellent. 
Osteichthyes-Bony Fish. This is the largest class of vertebrates. There are over 29,000 species of bony fish found in freshwater and marine environments around the world. Bony fish differ from fish like sharks and rays in the chondrichthyes class. Instead of cartilage, bony fish have bones. Bony fish also have a swim bladder.
Osteichthyes. Class Osteichthyes (the bony fish) is the largest class of vertebrates with over 20,000 species. The total numbers of fishes exceed that of all other kinds of vertebrates combined. This is not surprising considering four fifths of the earth's surface is covered with water. 