Deerfield, New Hampshire. Deerfield is part of Rockingham County-bounded North by Northwood, East by Nottingham, South by Raymond and Candia, and West by Epsom. Total acreage: 25,815 square acres. Population:
Sand Pit Avenue Extension Private Road Owner: private 0.3 miles, gravel, row 50’ START: END: INTERSECTS: TREE TRIM: private DITCHING: private HISTORY: Deerfield, New Hampshire-Highway Department Road File. Authors: Selectman, John Reagan-Road Agent, Alex Cote. PSNH substation Private Road Owner: Public Service of New Hampshire 0.2 miles, unpaved, row 50’ START: END: INTERSECTS: TREE TRIM private DITCHING private HISTORY: This is a major electrical transmission substation. - town failed to maintain the road for a period of five years. A class VI road entails no duty of maintenance by the town nor any liability by the town. Selectmen still retain the right to regulate the road, control driveways, authorize use by utilities.
Places of Interest. There are many places of interest in Candia. Here are a few of our favorites. A special thanks to Jon Ekroth for creating these maps! View a map of Candia's Conservation Land. There are more detailed maps of some of the town-owned parcels below. The Heron Rookery is another sensitive area in Candia. It's proximity to paved roads and increasing development makes it vulnerable to extinction. The rookery sits on the edge of a large unfragmented block, which also contains the town forest and Kinnicum Pond.
Thanks to the generosity of the townspeople of Candia at the 2005 Town Meeting, Candia was able to purchase the Deerfield Road Town Forest—82 acres on Deerfield Road. It is a key parcel in the important wildlife corridor linking Bear Brook and Pawtuckaway State Parks. The Heron Rookery is another sensitive area in Candia. It's proximity to paved roads and increasing development makes it vulnerable to extinction. The rookery sits on the edge of a large unfragmented block, which also contains the town forest and Kinnicum Pond.
Currier Road Class V Town Maintained Owner: town 1.2 miles, paved 24’, row 50’ START: Currier is only accessible from CANDIA but the road lies on the town line with CANDIA. Access from Deerfield Road CANDIA follow New Boston Road west to right on Currier Road. - town failed to maintain the road for a period of five years. A class VI road entails no duty of maintenance by the town nor any liability by the town. Selectmen still retain the right to regulate the road, control driveways, authorize use by utilities.
Kinnicum Pond is one of Candia's most sensitive areas. Known as a peat bog, it includes the headwaters of Moose Meadows. It contains some specialized plant species. This parcel is in one of the few remaining large unfragmented blocks in Candia and the town Open Space Plan recommends it for protection. The Heron Rookery is another sensitive area in Candia. It's proximity to paved roads and increasing development makes it vulnerable to extinction. The rookery sits on the edge of a large unfragmented block, which also contains the town forest and Kinnicum Pond.
All other roads, owned by the town but not maintained by the town are Class VI roads and are subject to gates and bars. Class VI status occurs by: - creation of road by selectmen “subject to gates and bars”. - town failed to maintain the road for a period of five years. A class VI road entails no duty of maintenance by the town nor any liability by the town. Selectmen still retain the right to regulate the road, control driveways, authorize use by utilities.
The Flint Road Town Forest is a 66 acre tract located on Flint Road. A trail on the property is named after a local doctor, Hermann Sander, who donated the land to the town. Some of the trails leading through it were developed by Candia Eagle Scouts. The Heron Rookery is another sensitive area in Candia. It's proximity to paved roads and increasing development makes it vulnerable to extinction. The rookery sits on the edge of a large unfragmented block, which also contains the town forest and Kinnicum Pond.