If you want to avoid any collagen products that contain animal products, look for supplements that specify a vegetable source, or at least are marked with a phrase like no animal products. An alternative is to consume foods and take vitamins such as Vitamin C, that support healthy production of collagen in the body.
Vitamin C rich fruits and vegetables are natural sources of collagen production. You should try to include citrus fruits like oranges, lemons and strawberies into your daily diet. Prunes One of the biggest causes of skin aeing is attack by substances called free radicals, that break down healthy skin tissues.
6. Aside from tomatoes, red fruits and vegetables are also considered good sources of lycopene. Beets and red peppers make tasty additions to your diet. Aside from lycopene, these red natural foods also contain plenty of antioxidants which promote collagen and battle other signs of aging.
From plant foods, legumes are significant sources of lysine, especially peanuts. Fresh fish, especially their heart tissues, are also rich in coenzyme Q-10, which promotes collagen regeneration inside the body.
Red fruits and vegetables also are excellent sources to up the collagen content of foods in the diet. The presence of lycopenes in these types of foods helps to act as antioxidants, which in turn increases collagen production. Try adding rep peppers, beets, and fresh or stewed tomatoes to the diet.
1. Garlic. Garlic is a good source of sulfur which is necessary to produce collagen in your body. Garlic also contains large amounts of lipoic acid and taurine, which are essential for rebuilding damaged collagen fibers. When cooking pasta, soup, meats and other dishes, be sure to add plenty of garlic.
Collagen is a type of protein that is used as connective and support tissue throughout the body. According to Human Biochemistry and Disease, collagen makes up 75 percent of our skin composition and 30 percent of our bodies overall.
Red fruits and vegetables also are excellent sources to up the collagen content of foods in the diet. The presence of lycopenes l in these types of foods helps to act as. antioxidants, which in turn increases collagen production. Try adding red peppers, beets, and fresh or stewed tomatoes to the diet.
For the body to form these amino acids and produce collagen, dietary sources of lysine and proline are required. In addition, vitamin C is needed by the body to convert proline into hydroxyproline, and lysine into hydroxylysine.