In the formula for WACC, r(E) is the cost of equity i.e. the required rate of return on common stock of the company. It is the minimum rate of return which a company must earn to keep its common stock price from falling. Cost of equity is estimated using different models, such as dividend discount model (DDM) and capital asset pricing model (CAPM).
Through a combination of dividends and share appreciation you require a $1.00 return on your $10.00 investment. Therefore the stock will have to appreciate by $0.70, which, combined with the $0.30 from dividends, gives you your 10% cost of equity. Let's assume we have already done this and the cost of common stock, preferred stock and retained earnings are 24%, 10% and 20% respectively. Now, calculate the portion of total equity that is occupied by each form
In economics and accounting, the cost of capital is the cost of a company's funds (both debt and equity), or, from an investor's point of view the required rate of return on a portfolio company's existing securities. It is used to evaluate new projects of a company. 
A company that earns a return on equity in excess of its cost of equity capital has added value. (For more on ROE, read Keep Your Eyes On The ROE .). Calculating the Cost of Equity The cost of equity can be a bit tricky to calculate as share capital carries no explicit cost. Unlike debt, which the company must pay in the form of predetermined interest, equity does not have a concrete price that the company must pay, but that doesn't mean no cost of equity exists. Let's assume we have already done this and the cost of common stock, preferred stock and retained earnings are 24%, 10% and 20% respectively. Now, calculate the portion of total equity that is occupied by each form of equity.
Cost of equity refers to a shareholder's required rate of return on an equity investment. It is the rate of return that could have been earned by putting the same money into a different investment with equal risk. The cost of equity is the rate of return required to persuade an investor to make a given equity investment. In general, there are two ways to determine cost of equity. First is the dividend growth model: Cost of Equity = (Next Year 's Annual Dividend / Current Stock Price) + Dividend Growth Rate.
Definition of cost of equity. The cost of equity is the rate of return required by the company's ordinary shareholders in order for that investor to bear the risk of holding that company's shares. The return consists both of dividend and capital gains. The returns are expected future returns, not historical returns
The stock is currently trading at $10 and will pay a dividend of $0.30. Through a combination of dividends and share appreciation you require a $1.00 return on your $10.00 investment. Therefore the stock will have to appreciate by $0.70, which, combined with the $0.30 from dividends, gives you your 10% cost of equity. In financial theory, the return that stockholders require for a company. The traditional formula for cost of equity (COE) is the dividend capitalization model: A firm's cost of equity represents the compensation that the market demands in exchange for owning the asset and bearing the risk of ownership.
Cost of Equity. Cost of equity (also known as cost of common stock) is the minimum rate of return which a company must generate in order to convince investors to invest in the company's common stock at its current market price. It is alternatively referred to as required rate of return. 
In finance, the cost of equity is the return (often expressed as a rate of return) a firm theoretically pays to its equity investors, i.e., shareholders, to compensate for the risk they undertake by investing their capital. From the perspective of capital providers, lenders seek to be rewarded with interest and equity investors seek dividends and/or appreciation in the value of their investment (capital gain). From a firm's perspective, they must pay for the capital it obtains from others, which is called its cost of capital.
If the return offered is too low, then the cost of equity is said to be too high for the investor and they will look elsewhere for returns. Financial theory suggests that as the risk of investing in a firm increases (decreases), the cost of equity increases (decreases). This follows the logical risk / reward patterns. The investor requires a total return of $15 per $100 invested, so the share price would have to increase by $13 ($115 - $2 - $100) in order to meet the 15% cost of equity.