Most oolong teas, especially those of fine quality, involve unique tea plant cultivars that are exclusively used for particular varieties. The degree of oxidation can range from 8 to 85%, depending on the variety and production style. Oolong is especially popular with tea connoisseurs of south China and Chinese expatriates in Southeast Asia, as is the Fujian preparation process known as the Gongfu tea ceremony.
The noun OOLONG has 1 sense: 1. Chinese tea leaves that have been partially fermented before being dried. Familiarity information: OOLONG used as a noun is very rare. Meaning: Chinese tea leaves that have been partially fermented before being dried. Classified under: Nouns denoting foods and drinks. Hypernyms (oolong is a kind of...): tea; tea leaf (dried leaves of the tea shrub; used to make tea)
Oolong tea is a product made from the leaves, buds, and stems of the Camellia sinensis plant. This is the same plant that is also used to make black tea and green tea. The difference is in the processing. Oolong tea is partially fermented, black tea is fully fermented, and green tea is unfermented. Oolong tea is used to sharpen thinking skills and improve mental alertness. It is also used to prevent cancer, tooth decay, osteoporosis, and heart disease. However, do not drink more than 2 cups a day of oolong tea. That amount of tea contains about 200 mg of caffeine. Too much caffeine during pregnancy might cause premature delivery, low birth weight, and harm to the baby.
This dark-oxidation oolong has an appearance, aroma and flavor more similar to a black tea than a green tea. Lindsey Goodwin. Definition: Oolong tea is a type of tea that is sometimes called 'wulong' (also pronounced 'oolong') or 'black dragon' tea. Oolong teas are semi-oxidized teas. They are sometimes called 'semi-fermented teas,' though this moniker is considered to be less technically correct than semi-oxidized teas. After the tealeaves are picked, they are rolled and allowed to oxidize
Oolong (Wu-lung) tea originates from China and is actually transliterated from two words meaning “black” and “dragon” in English. Besides its inherent meaning, the two words describe the shape of the oolong leaves in their novel state. Oolong tea goes through a unique semi-oxidization process that ranges from 1% - 99%. Shortly after picking, the leaves are withered and semi-oxidized in the sun then shade dried.
In this article. Oolong tea is made from leaves of the same plant that green and black teas come from. The difference lies in how long the leaves ferment. Green tea leaves are unfermented, while leaves for black tea are fully fermented. Oolong comes from leaves that are partially fermented. Fermentation, or its lack, gives teas their color and aroma. It also alters tea's chemical makeup. The most notable changes happen in a group of chemicals called catechins.
Made from the leaves, buds and stems of the Camellia sinensis plant, oolong tea is slightly fermented and semi-oxidized, giving it a taste in between black and green tea. There are a wide variety of oolong teas, but the most famous oolong comes from the Fuijan province of China. This means you can lose weight with oolong tea, so long as you don’t load it with refined sugar and artificial sweeteners. If your tastes lean towards sweet tea, consider using a small amount of raw honey, maple syrup, stevia or agave syrup—all of which are sugars low on the glycemic index.
Oolong RP: /uːlɒŋ/, GA: /ulɑŋ/ (simplified Chinese: 乌龙; traditional Chinese: 烏龍; pinyin: wūlong) wūlóng is a Traditional chinese (Tea camellia) sinensis produced through a unique process including withering the plant under the strong sun and oxidation before curling and. twisting Oolong is especially popular with tea connoisseurs of south China and Chinese expatriates in Southeast Asia, as is the Fujian preparation process known as the Gongfu tea ceremony.
Oolong tea contains caffeine. The caffeine in oolong tea might block the affects of adenosine (Adenocard). Adenosine (Adenocard) is often used by doctors to do a test on the heart. This test is called a cardiac stress test. However, do not drink more than 2 cups a day of oolong tea. That amount of tea contains about 200 mg of caffeine. Too much caffeine during pregnancy might cause premature delivery, low birth weight, and harm to the baby.