Hypothalamus is the gland that regulates Body temperature and blood pressure. The hypothalamus is NOT a gland-it is part of the brain. The pituitary gland controls body t … emperature. It is a small protrusion off the bottom of the hypothalamus at the bottom of the brain. The body regulates temperature through a physiologic process called negative feedback mechanism. It involves the skin(which has a thermosensitive receptor) sending an impulse … or message to the hypothalamus in the brain. The hypothalamus then send an impulse to the different body parts
The human body has the remarkable capacity for regulating its core temperature somewhere between 98°F and 100°F when the ambient temperature is between approximately 68°F and 130°F according to Guyton. This presumes a nude body and dry air. 
The hypothalamus works with other parts of the body's temperature-regulating system, such as the skin, sweat glands and blood vessels — the vents, condensers and heat ducts of your body's heating and cooling system. The middle layer of the skin, or dermis, stores most of the body's water. When heat activates sweat glands, these glands bring that water, along with the body's salt, to the surface of the skin as sweat. Once on the surface, the water evaporates.
Hypothalamus is the gland that regulates Body temperature and blood pressure. The hypothalamus is NOT a gland-it is part of the brain. The pituitary gland controls body t … emperature. It is a small protrusion off the bottom of the hypothalamus at the bottom of the brain. 8 people found this useful. The body regulates temperature through a physiologic process called negative feedback mechanism. It involves the skin(which has a thermosensitive receptor) sending an impulse … or message to the hypothalamus in
The hypothalamus regulates body temperature between 96.8 and 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit over each 24 hour cycle. During the normal human circadian rhythm, sleep occurs when the core temperature is dropping. Sleep usually begins when the rate of temperature change and body heat loss is maximal. 
Humans are homeotherms like most mammals. This means that we are warm blooded animals and have to regulate our internal body temperature. The ideal temperature range for a human body is 37°C. If there is even a 5°C drop or rise in body temperature, it could spell doom for the human being. As you can see, the temperature range within which a human can survive is very narrow. This makes one wonder what regulates body temperature in humans. This is especially quite intriguing as the external environmental temperature ranges are totally different from the
Thermoregulation is the ability of an organism to keep its body temperature within certain boundaries, even when the surrounding temperature is very different. 
The human body regulates temperature by keeping a tight balance between heat gain and heat loss. Your temperature regulation system is more analogous to the operation of a home furnace, as opposed to the function of an air conditioner. Humans regulate heat generation and preservation to maintain internal body temperature or core temperature.
The answer to what regulates body temperature in humans is the hypothalamus and various other mechanisms that help in transfer of internal and external heat. It is important to maintain body heat or else it will affect enzymes and many regular activities in the body will cease to function. As you can see, the temperature range within which a human can survive is very narrow. This makes one wonder what regulates body temperature in humans. This is especially quite intriguing as the external environmental temperature ranges are totally different from the internal body temperature.