1 Divergent boundaries (Constructive) occur where two plates slide apart from each other. 2  At zones of ocean-to-ocean rifting, divergent boundaries form by seafloor spreading, allowing for the formation of new ocean basin. They are associated with different types of surface phenomena. The different types of plate boundaries are: 1  Transform boundaries (Conservative) occur where two lithospheric plates slide, or perhaps more accurately, grind past each other along transform faults, where plates are neither created nor destroyed.
There are three main types of plate boundary: divergent, convergent and transform. Plates move away from one another at divergent boundaries. This happens at mid-ocean ridges. Plates move towards one another at convergent boundaries; one plate is forced below another in a process called subduction. Earthquakes and composite volcanoes are common at this type of boundary. 1 Convergent boundaries are areas where plates move toward each other and collide. 2  These are also known as compressional or destructive boundaries. 3  Subduction zones occur where an oceanic plate meets a continental plate and is pushed underneath it. 4  Subduction zones are marked by oceanic trenches.
The third type of plate boundary occurs where tectonic plates slide horizontally past each other. This is known as a transform plate boundary. As the plates rub against each other, huge stresses are set up that can cause portions of the rock to break, resulting in earthquakes. 
Where the plates meet, their relative motion determines the type of boundary: convergent, divergent, or transform. Earthquakes, volcanic activity, mountain-building, and oceanic trench formation occur along these plate boundaries. The lateral relative movement of the plates typically ranges from zero to 100 mm annually. They are associated with different types of surface phenomena. The different types of plate boundaries are: 1  Transform boundaries (Conservative) occur where two lithospheric plates slide, or perhaps more accurately, grind past each other along transform faults, where plates are neither created nor destroyed.
Best Answer: Divergent boundaries There are 3 types of Plate boundaries: Divergent boundaries; Covergent boundaries; and Transform boundaries. Divergent boundaries: - new crust is created as two or more plates pull away from each other-oceans grow wider where plates pull apart hence the oceanic trenches. Source(s): http://www.platetectonics.com/oceanfloor... Critters · 8 years ago. Thumbs up
There are three main types of plate boundaries: 1. Convergent boundaries: where two plates are colliding. Subduction zones occur when one or both of the tectonic plates are composed of oceanic crust. The denser plate is subducted underneath the less dense plate. The plate being forced under is eventually melted and destroyed.
Introduction. Ocean trenches are natural tectonic plate boundaries between two crustal plates. When a continental plate converges with an oceanic plate a subduction zone forms. The heavier oceanic plate subducts beneath the lighter continental plate forming a trench. Two oceanic plates converging forminga trench between the plates, USGS. Mariana Trench Trenches form in some areas when two oceanic plates converge forming a subduction zone. The Pacific Plate is subducting beneath the Mariana Plate forming Mariana Trench.
Effects that are found at this type of plate boundary include: a zone of progressively deeper earthquakes, an oceanic trench, a chain of volcanic islands, and the destruction of oceanic lithosphere. 
Oceanic crust is formed at an oceanic ridge, while the lithosphere is subducted back into the asthenosphere at trenches. The oceanic trenches are hemispheric-scale long but narrow topographic depressions of the sea floor. They are also the deepest parts of the ocean floor. Oceanic trenches are a distinctive morphological feature of convergent plate boundaries, along which lithospheric plates move towards each other at rates that vary from a few mm to over ten cm per year. 
The location where two plates meet is called a plate boundary. Plate boundaries are commonly associated with geological events such as earthquakes and the creation of topographic features such as mountains, volcanoes, mid-ocean ridges, and oceanic trenches. They are associated with different types of surface phenomena. The different types of plate boundaries are: 1  Transform boundaries (Conservative) occur where two lithospheric plates slide, or perhaps more accurately, grind past each other along transform faults, where plates are neither created nor destroyed.