The follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) blood test measures the level of FSH in blood. FSH is a hormone released by the pituitary gland, located on the underside of the brain. 
Answers. Best Answer: LH test would depend on the type-sometimes they use a urine sample or have you collect your urine over a 24 hour period and sometimes they do a blood test. FSH is checked via blood test. Cost really depends on the doctor and the lab they use-the range is typically $50 - 200 ish. Hopefully your insurance will cover it-blood tests to check hormone levels are quite common and are not always done for infertility. 
Our Price $49.00. The FSH blood test measures the amount of follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), a hormone that helps control the menstrual cycle and the production of eggs in women. In men FSH helps control in the production of sperm. The FSH blood test measures the amount of follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), a hormone that helps control the menstrual cycle and the production of eggs in women
The Test. The test for follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), a hormone associated with reproduction and the development of eggs in women and sperm in men, has several uses. In both women and men, the test may be used with other hormone tests such as luteinizing hormone (LH) , testosterone, estradiol, and/or progesterone to help: 1  Determine the cause of infertility.
A follicle-stimulating hormone test measures the amount of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) in a blood sample. FSH is produced by the pituitary gland. 1  In women, FSH helps control the menstrual cycle and the production of eggs by the ovaries. Why It Is Done. A follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) test may be done to: 1  Help find the cause of infertility. 2  FSH testing is commonly used to help evaluate a: 3  Woman's egg supply (ovarian reserve). 4  Man's low sperm count. 5  Help evaluate menstrual problems, such as irregular or absent menstrual periods (amenorrhea)
The most likely test you will have performed is a blood test measuring the amount of Thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) in your blood. This is usually used as a screening … test for hypo-or hyperthyroidism. If the value is high, you possibly have hypothyroidism, and if low, hyperthyroidism. 1 Diagnosing Infertility: The FSH Fertility Test FSH stands for follicle-stimulating hormone, which is a hormone that the pituitary gland produces.
DESCRIPTION: The Follicle Stimulating Hormone (FSH) test measures the amount of FSH, a sex hormone produced by the pituitary gland, in your blood. In women, Follicle Stimulating Hormone (FSH) stimulates production of eggs and a hormone called estradiol during the first half of the menstrual cycle. 
Normal levels of FSH vary depending on age and gender of the individual being tested. Adult males typically range from 1.5 to 12.4 milli international units per milliliter (mIU/mL) while menstruating women usually range from 4.7 to 21.5 mIU/mL. The FSH blood tests checks for the level of follicle-stimulating hormone in the bloodstream. FHS levels can determine if the sex organs in both men and women are functioning properly. FHS levels may also be tested to detect problems with the pituitary glan