1 In general, the public record of a bankruptcy can stay on your credit report for 10 years. 2  However, you may see individual accounts in the bankruptcy, such as credit accounts, fall off of your report seven years and 180 days from the start of the delinquency on the account. Not all of your credit information will stay on your credit report forever, which can be good news if you are worried about how long negative information, such as late payments, bankruptcies and judgments, will impact your credit history and credit score. How long information remains on your credit report varies.
It depends on the type of negative information. Here's the basic breakdown of how long different types of negative information will remain on your credit report: 1  Late payments: 7 years. 2  Bankruptcies: 7 years for completed Chapter 13 bankruptcies and 10 years for Chapter 7 bankruptcies. 3  Foreclosures: 7 years. 
Here is more input: The seven year statute of limitations on information listed on your credit report figures from the date of last activity.According to the FCR Act Section 605 a debt can remain on a credit report for 7 years and 180 days after the delinquency that caused the account to go bad. The repossession then occurred in January 2003. This will stay on the credit report until September of 2008 for that 7 year period, regardless of when the loan winds up getting paid off. It can stay on the report a bit longer if it goes to court and the bank gets a judgment against the borrower.
These negative items are dragging your credit score down and you want to know how long these are going to be listed on your report. It does depend on the type of negative information but here is a breakdown of how long different types of negative information will remain on your credit report: 1  Late Payments: 7 years. 2  Bankruptcy: 7 years for completed Chapter 13 bankruptcy and 10 years for Chapter 7 bankruptcy. 3  Foreclosures: 7 years. 1 Foreclosures: 7 years. 2  Collections: Generally, about 7 years, depending on the age of the debt being collected. 3  Public Records: Generally 7 years, although unpaid tax liens can remain indefinitely.
1 Tax liens. 2  Paid tax liens will typically stay on your credit report for seven years from the date released (paid), while unpaid tax liens can remain on your credit report for 15 years. 3  Bankruptcies. 4  In general, the public record of a bankruptcy can stay on your credit report for 10 years. Not all of your credit information will stay on your credit report forever, which can be good news if you are worried about how long negative information, such as late payments, bankruptcies and judgments, will impact your credit history and credit score. How long information remains on your credit report varies.
- Good credit stays for 10 years and then it is aged off but can stay longer. - Bankruptcies that, from the date of adjudication, (means decision) antedate (means predate) the report by more than 10 years. - Collection accounts and charge offs remain for 7 years from first serious delinquency or charge off date. 
Collections stay on your credit report 7 years after the date of last activity. Don't let this confuse you...normally 7 years after date of last activity means the date that it was sold to the collection agency. Usually your account must be 180 days past due in order for the company to do that. 
Accounts paid as agreed will generally stay on your credit report for up to 10 years from the date of last activity. If you’ve paid off your mortgage, for example, that positive information can stay on your credit report for up to a decade from the account’s date of last activity. Not all of your credit information will stay on your credit report forever, which can be good news if you are worried about how long negative information, such as late payments, bankruptcies and judgments, will impact your credit history and credit score. How long information remains on your credit report varies.
Most information (good and bad) will stay on your credit report for seven years. However, some financial disasters (divorce, bankruptcy) can stay for as long as ten years. The … silver lining to this is that, the older the negative information is, the less influence it has on the overall report. The repossession then occurred in January 2003. This will stay on the credit report until September of 2008 for that 7 year period, regardless of when the loan winds up getting paid off. It can stay on the report a bit longer if it goes to court and the bank gets a judgment against the borrower.
Lenders use the information in your credit report to assess your risk as a borrower, and negative information can make you look risky. Equifax Experts explain how long negative information, such as bankruptcies and collections, generally stay on your credit report. Not all of your credit information will stay on your credit report forever, which can be good news if you are worried about how long negative information, such as late payments, bankruptcies and judgments, will impact your credit history and credit score. How long information remains on your credit report varies.