The cleansers made by Cetaphil are good for cleaning sensitive skin. They are reliably free of substances that cause allergies and irritation. The only shortcoming of the Cetaphil line is that it is not really the greatest for treating acne. All major over-the-counter Cetaphil products are reviewed in this article. Cetaphil Gentle Skin Cleanser retails for about US $8 a bottle and is available in many different outlets. It is fragrance-free and safe for people who have eczema or rosacea. It’s not the greatest for removing makeup, but if you don’t use makeup, it is an ideal acne skin cleanser.
So, I use St.Ives apricot scrub 2x a week, and the cleanser everyday. It doesn't dry out my skin at all. I haven't used the lotion, I use Clinique's lotion for dry combination skin which seems to work great and for the amount I get plus the price is great! Source(s): Used Cetaphil for 1year. I was thinking of getting the cleanser and moisturizer.... show more I have pretty dry skin, the only thing that seems to help it is the proactiv green tea moisturizer but its soo expensive so i need to find a cheaper skincare routine that works for me.
Dry Skin. Dry skin needs a powerful moisturizer. Our non-irritating products are specially formulated for daily use on sensitive skin, leaving it silky smooth. 
Report Abuse. I have dry skin too and Cetaphil is one of those products (I used both the 16 oz. cleaner & lotion) that work really well, in a simple way too. It's so good because its so simple; not over the top or overly complicated with unneeded chemicals. I was thinking of getting the cleanser and moisturizer.... show more I have pretty dry skin, the only thing that seems to help it is the proactiv green tea moisturizer but its soo expensive so i need to find a cheaper skincare routine that works for me.
RE: Is cetaphil good for dry skin? I have pretty dry skin, the only thing that seems to help it is the proactiv green tea moisturizer but its soo expensive so i need to find a cheaper skincare routine that works for me. I was thinking of getting the cleanser and moisturizer.... show more I have pretty dry skin, the only thing that seems to help it is the proactiv green tea moisturizer but its soo expensive so i need to find a cheaper skincare routine that works for me.
Dry Skin. Dry skin is sensitive. It needs a cleanser that won’t strip out its natural protective oils and emollients. These products were formulated with and for dermatologists to be gentle, but effective for dry skin types. 
1 Gentle, non-irritating daily cleanser for sensitive and dry skin. 2  Soap free formula removing dirt, make-up and other impurities without drying the skin. 3  Helps skin retain needed moisture. 4  Leaves skin feeling soft, smooth and healthy. Properties. 1  Gentle, non-irritating daily cleanser for sensitive and dry skin. 2  Soap free formula removing dirt, make-up and other impurities without drying the skin. 3  Helps skin retain needed moisture. 4  Leaves skin feeling soft, smooth and healthy. 5  pH balanced. 6  Fragrance-free. 7  Non-comedogenic. 8  High tolerance
Cetaphil cleansers provide clinically proven effective non-irritating, non drying skin cleansing. Cetaphil moisturizers provide long-lasting skin hydration and help restore the skin's natural protective barrier. Properties. 1  Gentle, non-irritating daily cleanser for sensitive and dry skin. 2  Soap free formula removing dirt, make-up and other impurities without drying the skin. 3  Helps skin retain needed moisture. 4  Leaves skin feeling soft, smooth and healthy. 5  pH balanced. 6  Fragrance-free. 7  Non-comedogenic. 8  High tolerance