Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Install a Tile Floor! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Tile Floor Installation project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Tile Floor ranges between $10.02 - $14.22 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased.
$5.75-6.75 sq. ft. $5.25-6.25 sq. ft. Material and installation for 12x12 red clay. Jeff Dizmon, a certified tile expert warns, High end tile no longer adds value to your house, so it's not a great choice for a rental or if you're going to flip the house. Factors that Influence Cost. Substrate. Substrate applies to any surface that will accept tile such as a concrete slab for flooring or a masonry planter wall. Tile, due to its limited tensile strength is highly vulnerable to movement in the substrate that can result in tile cracks or uneven results.
Do you need to know the average cost to install Outdoor Tiles in your zip code? Do you need an easy-to-understand 2015 estimate of Outdoor Tile job options and costs? Get pricing INSTANTLY. Enter your options and zip code above-then select Update. Outdoor Tiles-Pricing and Installation Cost Notes. Homewyse cost estimates are approximate ranges for basic work in typical conditions. The estimates should only be used for preliminary planning. Homewyse estimates are NOT substitutes for quotes from qualified vendors.
Concrete Cost-Price info for different concrete finishes. Paver Cost-What influences the price of paver installation. Flagstone Cost-Overview of what influences flagstone prices. Every tile project includes its own unique set of conditions that influence cost of construction. Whether it's a remodel or new construction can have considerable influence on whether there is any surface preparation required prior to laying the tile. Factors that Influence Cost. Substrate. Substrate applies to any surface that will accept tile such as a concrete slab for flooring or a masonry planter wall. Tile, due to its limited tensile strength is highly vulnerable to movement in the substrate that can result in tile cracks or uneven results.
So just how much does it cost to install travertine in your new home? The price per square foot of travertine pavers depends on color, quality, and size of the materials needed. Typically our premium chiseled and honed travertine pavers could range anywhere from $2.35 to $4.99 per square foot. The average cost of marble pavers ranges from $7.40 to $14.10 per square foot. This saves the customer an average of $7.08 per square foot of travertine paver tile. The beauty of travertine is that they can be used for a variety of applications. 
1 The homewyse Outdoor Tile cost estimates do not include costs for demolition / removal of existing hardscape or extensive grading. 2  Higher priced Outdoor Tiles may include features/attributes that include thicker, more durable, more attractive and weather resistant pavers. Outdoor Tiles-Pricing and Installation Cost Notes. Homewyse cost estimates are approximate ranges for basic work in typical conditions. The estimates should only be used for preliminary planning. Homewyse estimates are NOT substitutes for quotes from qualified vendors.
Outdoor Tile Cost Guide. While most people think of tiles as something that gets used inside a home, outdoor tiles are also practical for a variety of purposes. Whatever the budget, outdoor tiles can be a way to demarcate areas of space, create boundaries and outline living areas clearly. The cost of outdoor tiles can vary depending on whether the project involves low-quality ceramic tiles or upscale marble. Ultimately, it is up to the homeowner and the budget to determine which option is best.
For this reason, it is key to get quotes for outdoor tile installation in advance and expect to pay anywhere from $4 to $14 per square foot of installation depending on the scale and difficulty of the project. The cost of outdoor tiles can vary depending on whether the project involves low-quality ceramic tiles or upscale marble. Ultimately, it is up to the homeowner and the budget to determine which option is best.
Ceramic Outdoor Tiles. In both indoor and outdoor projects, ceramic tiles are perhaps the most common material used in residential tiling jobs. This has a lot to do with their low cost, and it is not unusual to find sales offering ceramic tiles for as little as $1 per square foot. The cost of outdoor tiles can vary depending on whether the project involves low-quality ceramic tiles or upscale marble. Ultimately, it is up to the homeowner and the budget to determine which option is best.
A concrete patio costs less than patios made of stone, brick, or tile. The simple truth is that patios made of natural materials are usually higher priced and require more intensive labor to install. Some concrete contractors estimate that a stamped concrete patio costs one-third less than the cost of other materials.