A Receptor is a physiological term for the part of a nerve that receives and reads chemical signals (neurotransmitters) from other nerves to transmit the electrical signals that transfer information through the brain and nervous system. 
2. receptor-an organ having nerve endings (in the skin or viscera or eye or ear or nose or mouth) that respond to stimulation. sense organ, sensory receptor. lateral line, lateral line organ-sense organs of fish and amphibians; believed to detect pressure changes in the water. re·cep·tor. 1. A nerve ending specialized to sense or receive stimuli. Skin receptors respond to stimuli such as touch and pressure and signal the brain by activating portions of the nervous system. Receptors in the nose detect odors. 2. A cell structure or site that is capable of combining with a hormone, antigen, or other chemical substance
Receptor: 1. In cell biology, a structure on the surface of a cell (or inside a cell) that selectively receives and binds a specific substance. There are many receptors. There is a receptor for (insulin; there is a receptor for low-density lipoproteins (LDL); etc. To take an example, the receptor for substance P, a molecule that acts as a messenger for the sensation of pain, is a unique harbor on the cell surface where substance P docks. Without this receptor, substance P cannot dock and cannot deliver its message of pain
Neuroanatomical distribution of receptors for three potential inhibitory neurotransmitters in the brainstem auditory nuclei of the cat. Glendenning KK, Baker BN. Department of Psychology, Florida State University, Tallahassee 32306. The results show that glycine may be the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the auditory system as it ascends to the midbrain in that relatively high levels of strychnine binding are present in every major nucleus of the system.
A cell in a system responsible for stimulus transfer. These types of cells are specialists in detecting and responding to stimuli from external elements. 2. Any sense organ like the eye or the ear. 
In order to visualize the relative abundance of each of three potentially inhibitory neurotransmitters in the nuclei of the brainstem auditory pathway, receptor sites for glycine, GABA-A, and muscarinic acetylcholine (ACh) have been localized in the cat's brainstem auditory system. The results show that glycine may be the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the auditory system as it ascends to the midbrain in that relatively high levels of strychnine binding are present in every major nucleus of the system.
The cutaneous receptors are the types of sensory receptor found in the dermis or epidermis. They are a part of the somatosensory system. Cutaneous receptors include e.g. cutaneous mechanoreceptors, nociceptors (pain) and thermoreceptors (temperature). 
A sensory receptor is a living cell that responds to a particular type of energy. Receptors are often housed in a sense organ, a specialized structure that is constructed in such a way that it collects one type of energy particularly well, so the receptor cells can respond to it. Finally, magnetoreceptors respond to magnetic fields. Magnetoreceptors are found in species such as honeybees, mollusks, hornets, salmon, tuna, turtles, salamanders, and homing pigeons. Receptors for magnetoreception contain magnetite, a mineral which is magnetic itself and that therefore can
Sensory Receptors are specialized neurons or nerve endings that respond to changes in the environment by converting energy from a specific stimulus into an action potential (a process known as transduction). 