Symptoms. The incubation period of hepatitis A is usually 14–28 days. Symptoms of hepatitis A range from mild to severe, and can include fever, malaise, loss of appetite, diarrhoea, nausea, abdominal discomfort, dark-coloured urine and jaundice (a yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes). Not everyone who is infected will have all of the symptom
Definition. Hepatitis A is a viral infection that causes irritation and swelling of the liver. Hepatitis A is the most common strain amongst the several types of hepatitis infections. It is easily spread by close contact with someone who is infected
1 In other infected individuals symptoms of hepatitis A may include flu-like symptoms such as tiredness, stomach discomfort, fever, decreased appetite, and diarrhea; light-colored stools; more specific symptoms include dark yellow urine, and jaundice (white of eyes and skin become yellowish). Hepatitis A is a virus, or infection, that causes liver disease and inflammation of the liver. Viruses can cause sickness. For example, the flu is caused by a virus. People can pass viruses to each other. Inflammation is swelling that occurs when tissues of the body become injured or infected.
1 Hepatitis A is a viral liver disease that can cause mild to severe illness. 2  The hepatitis A virus is transmitted through ingestion of contaminated food and water or through direct contact with an infectious person. 3  Almost everyone recovers fully from hepatitis A, but very small proportions die from fulminant hepatitis. Symptoms of hepatitis A range from mild to severe, and can include fever, malaise, loss of appetite, diarrhoea, nausea, abdominal discomfort, dark-coloured urine and jaundice (a yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes).
Most people with hepatitis A usually have: 1  Extreme tiredness. 2  Loss of appetite. 3  Muscle aches and pains. 4  Nausea and vomiting. 5  Low-grade fever. 
Symptoms. Hepatitis A signs and symptoms, which typically don't appear until you've had the virus for a few weeks, may include: 1  Fatigue. 2  Nausea and vomiting. 3  Abdominal pain or discomfort, especially in the area of your liver on your right side beneath your lower ribs. 4  Clay-colored bowel movements. 5  Loss of appetite. If you have hepatitis A, you may have a mild illness that lasts a few weeks or a severe illness that lasts several months. Not everyone with hepatitis A develops signs or symptoms.
Hepatitis A (formerly known as infectious hepatitis) is an acute infectious disease of the liver caused by the hepatitis A virus (HAV). Many cases have few or no symptoms, especially in the young. The time between infection and symptoms, in those who develop them, is between two and six weeks. Early symptoms of hepatitis A infection can be mistaken for influenza, but some sufferers, especially children, exhibit no symptoms at all. Symptoms typically appear 2 to 6 weeks (the incubation period) after the initial infection. 90% of children do not have symptoms.
Hepatitis A Overview. Hepatitis is a general term that means inflammation (irritation and swelling) of the liver. Inflammation of the liver can result from infection, exposure to alcohol, certain medications, chemicals, poisons, or from a disorder of the immune system. 
Causes. The hepatitis A virus, which causes the infection, usually is spread when a person ingests even tiny amounts of contaminated fecal matter. The hepatitis A virus infects liver cells and causes inflammation. The inflammation can impair liver function and cause other signs and symptoms of hepatitis A. Hepatitis A virus can be transmitted several ways, such as: 1  Eating food handled by someone with the virus who doesn't thoroughly wash his or her hands after using the toilet. 2  Drinking contaminated water.