It also treats illnesses such as hair loss, asthma, back pain, relief from arthritic pain, skin problems, fertility problems, stomach problems, migraines and more. We also have trained female therapists for the sisters. Hijama is a natural therapy that the Prophet ﷺ practiced in their lifetime. The cups used in Hijama create a wonderful pulling power that reduces pain and enhances the mobilization of the immune system, stagnated blood and Qi. Hijama therapy is effective in treating some clinical manifestations of external pathogens that are fighting at the level of the skin.
Hijama (Arabic: حجامة ‎ lit. sucking) is the Arabic traditional medicine for wet cupping, where blood is drawn by vacuum from a small skin incision for therapeutic purposes. Hijama is considered a form of energy medicine because it has been claimed to unclog the meridians in the body, and is viewed by some practitioners as a cure that can alleviate black magic and possession.
Hijama relieves pain, especially that which is related to headache, menstrual cramps, dental pain, tennis elbow, muscle pain, low back pain and sciatica. 
Hijama procedure: Hijama (cupping) is a method of treatment in which a cup is placed on various acu points, Sunnah points and reflex zones. A negative pressure is created by a special pump or by introducing heat procedure. redness and pain of the eyes, redness and pain of the inner canthus, blurred vision, lacrimation, night blindness, dimness of vision, rhinitis, nasal congestion and discharge. deafness, tinnitus, blocked ears, nasal congestion, pain of the nose, nasal polyps.
In the Malay language, Hijama Wet Cupping Therapy is called as Bekam Darah. You may have seen some therapist use the razor to make slight cuts on the skin. For us, we use the lancing device with disposable lancet inside. The cuts/incisions made are not deep and they are small. Both are still good. 
Bleeding cuping or wet cupping as it is referred to sometimes, is the Sunnah method and is the oldest, most frequently used and often the most effective method of cupping. A surgical instrument is used to pierce the skin and the cup is then applied to collect blood. Cupping / Hijama is the process of applying cups to various points on the body and removing the air inside the cups to form a vacuum. In terms of following the Sunnah, the cupping that is referred to is ' Bleeding cupping '.
Almost all diseases respond to Hijama. The following are some of the most common: Pain related conditions. Hijama eases pain, especially that which is related to headache, menstrual cramps, dental pain, tennis elbow, muscle pain, back pain and sciatica. Headache and migraine. In the 18th century Al-Hijamah was considered to be an effective remedy for headache and it was highly recommended for migraine. Regardless of the cause, Hijama can be applied to specific points of the body like what is done in acupuncture, to the area that is dysfunctional. After a short time the patient will feel warmth and there will be a reduction of pain.
'Hijama' in arabic is derived from 'hajm' which means 'sucking'. Cupping / Hijama is the process of applying cups to various points on the body and removing the air inside the cups to form a vacuum. In terms of following the Sunnah, the cupping that is referred to is ' Bleeding cupping '. It is the most frequently used, oldest and often the most effective method
Hijama is a prophetic medicine and natural therapy that can detoxify all your major organs with no side effects. Hijama in (Arabic: حجامة)‎ means  to suck also in traditional medicine known as wet cupping, where toxic blood is drawn by vacuum from a small skin incision for therapeutic purposes. 
Please try again later. For more information about the hijama (cupping) treatment visit http://hijamacentres.co.uk information about the hijama (cupping) course visit @ http://icaht.co.uk. A short video demonstrating how wet cupping therapy/ Hijama can be used in the treatment of knee pain. Jeff describes how he was going to undergo knee surgery to address his double meniscal tears but was relieved by trying wet cupping therapy with Hijama Centres UK.