Hanging Out on an Island. The standard overhang of an island countertop -- on the side designed to sit at and tuck stools underneath -- is 12 inches. If you plan to extend the counter farther, you need to add supports such as legs, or wood corbels or metal L-brackets that extend half the overhang’s distance. A typical countertop overhang extends 1 to 1 1/2 inches from the cabinet bases, not the doors. The extension helps keep spills and crumbs from finding their way into the drawers and cupboards below. It also completes the counter-cupboard-toe-kick contour that makes standing at the countertop more comfortabl
The usual countertop overhang is 1.5 inches over the front edge of the base cabinet. When using the countertop as a dining area, this overhang will not be enough to allow you to sit close enough to the countertop to dine in comfort. Standard kitchen base cabinets are usually 24 inches wide, whereas the basic size for kitchen island countertops are 36 inches wide. With a minimum overhang of 1.5 inches on one side, this leaves only 10.5 inches on the other.
What is the minimum counter-top overhang for suspended seating? The counter-top overhang should be a minimum of 12 inches from the counter-top edge to the finish panel on the cabinet. Seating Innovations recommends an overhang of 15 inches for the best comfort and ease of accessing the chairs. The suspended seating system can accommodate a maximum counter-top overhang of 18 inches. If your questions haven't been answered feel free to E-mail Us or call 1.888.864.3463 and we'd be happy to help you.
Whatever height counter you have and whichever kind of seating, allow at least 24 inches of space between each seat for your guests' comfort. Don't forget clearance for furniture close to the countertop as you should allow at least 32 inches from the edge of the countertop to anything behind the seating area. A comfortable clearance for people's knees below these countertops is 15 inches. Stools for raised 42-inch countertops are usually between 28 and 30 inches tall, giving a comfortable 12 to 14 inches of knee room. The recommended counter overhang also varies with the counter height, with experts suggesting 15 to 18 inches for the lower counter and 12 inches for a raised counter
Countertop Clearance. Keep in mind how far the edge of your countertop is from appliances or kitchen cabinets to maintain an adequate walkway. The more overhang you add to your island or peninsula, the walkway may shrink an equal distance. The distance between the countertop and other cabinets should be 42 inches. If the overhang on the countertop is across from a refrigerator or stove, you'll want to bump that measurement up to 48 inches to ensure adequate door clearance. Standard kitchen base cabinets are usually 24 inches wide, whereas the basic size for kitchen island countertops are 36 inches wide. With a minimum overhang of 1.5 inches on one side, this leaves only 10.5 inches on the other.
The overhang for a countertop mounted in this fashion should be 18 inches to allow adequate knee-room when you sit at the countertop in a standard dining chair. For countertops used with a counter-height stool, you need a countertop height of 36 inches. Standard kitchen base cabinets are usually 24 inches wide, whereas the basic size for kitchen island countertops are 36 inches wide. With a minimum overhang of 1.5 inches on one side, this leaves only 10.5 inches on the other.
Table Height - 30. Table height seating is the same height as your dining table which is 30 from the floor to the top of the table or countertop. When designing for a table height seating area the NKBA recommends that we allow a minimum of an 18 deep knee space (or countertop overhang). This 18 must be clear of any obstacles such as turned posts, decorative corbels or additional countertop support.