Maidenhead Citadel Corps of the Salvation Army was first opened in the Town in the mid-1880s. Maidenhead Citadel Band was soon founded in 1886 by Bandmaster William Thomas who later became Mayor of the Town. The town is also home to Maidenhead Sailing Club at Summerleaze lake which is home to one of the largest Albacore fleets in the area. Maidenhead Golf Club was founded in 1896 and is situated close by the town centre and station in Shoppenhangers Road.
There are other hockey teams in the county: Reading Hockey Club, Sonning Hockey Club, Maidenhead Hockey Club, Bracknell Hockey Club, Windsor Hockey Club, Newbury & Thatcham Hockey Club and Reading University Hockey Club. Reading became the new county town in 1867, taking over from Abingdon, which remained in the county. Under the Local Government Act 1888, Berkshire County Council took over functions of the Berkshire Quarter Sessions, covering the administrative county of Berkshire, which excluded the county borough of Reading.
detailed map of Maidenhead and near places. Welcome to the Maidenhead google satellite map! This place is situated in Buckinghamshire County, South East, England, United Kingdom, its geographical coordinates are 51° 31' 0 North, 0° 42' 0 West and its original name (with diacritics) is Maidenhead. 3D map of Maidenhead in United Kingdom. You can also dive right into Maidenhead on unique 3D satellite map provided by Google Earth. With new GoogLe Earth plugin you can enjoy the interactive Maidenhead 3D map within your web browser.
The town is part of the Royal Borough of Windsor and Maidenhead, with an urban population of around 80,000. It was previously an independent municipal borough. The town is one of the safest Conservative seats in the country, with current MP for the Maidenhead Constituency being Theresa May (Conservative). The town is also home to Maidenhead Sailing Club at Summerleaze lake which is home to one of the largest Albacore fleets in the area. Maidenhead Golf Club was founded in 1896 and is situated close by the town centre and station in Shoppenhangers Road.
Lawrenceville is an unincorporated community and census-designated place (CDP) located within Lawrence Township in Mercer County, New Jersey, United States. As of the 2010 United States Census, the CDP's population was 3,887. The median income for a household in the CDP as of the year 2000 was $74,107. The median income for a family was $98,972. Males had a median income of $65,189 versus $37,972 for females.
Understand [edit]. The constituency of Maidenhead and Windsor is the most affluent area of the UK, with house prices often exceeding those of Central London. It's position in the River Thames countryside, with close proximity to the capital is unrivalled making it a gold-mine for commuters. 1 Holiday Inn Maidenhead, Manor Lane, Maidenhead, SL6 2RA, ☎ 0871 942 9053, [4]. 2  The hotel in Maidenhead also provides leisure facilities including a pool, spa and gym, as well as meeting and function rooms.
Maidenhead [1] is a dormitory town in the county of Berkshire in the South East of England. 1 Holiday Inn Maidenhead, Manor Lane, Maidenhead, SL6 2RA, ☎ 0871 942 9053, [4]. 2  The hotel in Maidenhead also provides leisure facilities including a pool, spa and gym, as well as meeting and function rooms.
Maidenhead is a large affluent town and unparished area in the Royal Borough of Windsor and Maidenhead, in Berkshire, England. It lies south of the River Thames (although at Maidenhead the river runs north-south so the town is in fact on its west bank). The town has a population of 67,404. The town is also home to Maidenhead Sailing Club at Summerleaze lake which is home to one of the largest Albacore fleets in the area. Maidenhead Golf Club was founded in 1896 and is situated close by the town centre and station in Shoppenhangers Road.
Maidenhead is in the British Isles... Maidenhead is in the county of Berkshire and about 25 miles (40 kilometres) west of London. See also the maps. http://www.maidenhead.net/ | Copyright | Legal notice | webmaster@maidenhead.net This page last updated 7 January 1999.