Confidence votes 129. It takes 7 years to become a Physical Therapist. Typically 4 years to obtain an undergraduate degree and 3 years of physical therapy school. With this you get a DPT (Doctorate in Physical Therapy) in most programs. In Canada, to become a physical therapist a student must complete a 4 year undergraduate degree, followed by a 2 year physical therapy post graduate degree. After passing board certification exams a student with this training is referred to as a licensed physical therapist.
The lowest 10 percent of physical therapists earned $54,710, and the top 10 percent earned $110,670 annually during the same period. Physical therapists working in the management, scientific and technical consulting industry earned the highest salaries in 2011, according to the BLS, with annual mean earnings of $91,020. Some physical therapists continue their studies after the doctorate program in a physical therapy residency or fellowship. A residency program may take up to a year to complete and allow the therapist to focus on a specific area in the field.
In most cases, it takes seven years or more to become a licensed physical therapist. The first four years of training are completed at the undergraduate level in health, science or a related field. The next three years are towards a master's degree plus one year of studies in a doctorate degree program. 
Physical therapist (PT) professional education refers to the didactic and clinical education that prepares graduates for entry into practice of physical therapy. Education for the advancement of practicing physical therapists is termed post-professional. To practice as a physical therapist in the US, you must earn a physical therapist degree from a CAPTE-accredited physical therapist education program and pass a state licensure exam.
A physical therapist's assistant treats patients with limited ability to move or perform daily activities, such as walking and driving. Working under the supervision of licensed physical therapists, PTAs employ methods such as exercises, electrical stimulation and massage. Physical therapist assistant programs are accredited by the Commission of Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education, or CAPTE. You must graduate from an accredited program to qualify to take the national PTA licensing exam, required in most states.
Students must complete a four-year bachelor’s degree to enter a doctor of physical therapy program. While completing the undergraduate degree, they may have to take required prerequisite courses, such as biology, chemistry, physics, social science and statistics, to gain admittance to the graduate program. Some physical therapists continue their studies after the doctorate program in a physical therapy residency or fellowship. A residency program may take up to a year to complete and allow the therapist to focus on a specific area in the field.
Residency Programs. Some physical therapists continue their studies after the doctorate program in a physical therapy residency or fellowship. A residency program may take up to a year to complete and allow the therapist to focus on a specific area in the field.
In order to work as a physical therapist, you must complete a Doctor of Physical Therapy degree program. As of 2014, there were 228 physical therapy programs accredited by the Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education (CAPTE), most of which last three years. 
Physical therapist assistant (PTA) education, obtained in a CAPTE-accredited two-year associate degree program, prepares graduates for taking the national licensure examination and entering the field of physical therapy with the required knowledge, skills, and behaviors of a PTA. 