Carotid duplex is a simple and painless test that combines two types of ultrasound (sound waves) to look for blockages in your carotid arteries. Your carotid arteries are located along both sides of your neck. Blocked carotid arteries are a major risk factor for stroke. Conventional ultrasound, or B-mode, uses sound waves that bounce off blood vessels to provide a picture of your blood vessel structure.
A carotid ultrasound is a noninvasive, painless screening test. Your doctor uses an ultrasound to look at the carotid arteries in your neck and see the flow of blood through them. Ultrasound, also called sonography, uses sound waves instead of X-rays to make images. A carotid ultrasound is an important test that can detect narrowing, or stenosis of the carotid arteries. Carotid artery stenosis is a major risk factor for stroke. You have two carotid arteries, one on each side of your neck. Carotid arteries are major arteries that carry blood from your heart to your brain
Color flow ultrasonography (Doppler) of a carotid artery-scanner and screen. Carotid ultrasonography is an ultrasound-based diagnostic imaging technique to reveal structural details of the carotid arteries, so as to look for blood clots, atherosclerotic plaque buildup, and other blood flow problems. A carotid duplex is a carotid ultrasonography carried out by duplex ultrasonography. A duplex carotid ultrasound may include a Doppler ultrasound, a special test able to reveal the movement of blood cells through the carotid arteries
Ultrasound-Carotid. Carotid ultrasound uses sound waves to produce pictures of the carotid arteries in the neck which carry blood from the heart to the brain. A Doppler ultrasound study – a technique that evaluates blood flow through a blood vessel – is usually part of this exam. It’s most frequently used to screen patients for blockage or narrowing of the carotid arteries, a condition called stenosis which may increase the risk of stroke
Carotid (ka-ROT-id) ultrasound is a painless and harmless test that uses high-frequency sound waves to create pictures of the insides of your carotid arteries. You have two common carotid arteries, one on each side of your neck. They each divide into internal and external carotid arteries. A standard carotid ultrasound shows the structure of your carotid arteries. Your carotid ultrasound test might include a Doppler ultrasound. Doppler ultrasound is a special test that shows the movement of blood through your blood vessels. Your doctor might need results from both types of ultrasound to fully assess whether you have a blood flow problem in your
A carotid ultrasound is performed to test for narrowed carotid arteries, which increase the risk of stroke. Carotid arteries are usually narrowed by a buildup of plaque — made up of fat, cholesterol, calcium and other substances that circulate in the bloodstream. Your doctor may order a carotid ultrasound to: 1  Evaluate blood flow through the artery after surgery to remove plaques (carotid endarterectomy). 2  Evaluate the placement and effectiveness of a stent, a mesh tube used to improve blood flow through an artery.
Carotid (kuh-ROT-id) ultrasound is a safe, painless procedure that uses sound waves to examine the blood flow through the carotid arteries. Your two carotid arteries are located on each side of your neck. They deliver blood from your heart to your brain. Carotid ultrasound tests for blocked or narrowed carotid arteries, which can increase the risk of stroke. The results can help your doctor determine a treatment to lower your stroke risk.