Historically, protozoa were defined as single-celled organisms with animal-like behaviors, such as motility and predation. The group was regarded as the zoological counterpart to the  protophyta , which were considered to be plant-like, as they are capable of photosynthesis. The definition of Protozoa as a phylum or sub-kingdom made up of unicellular animals was adopted by the zoologist Otto Buetschli —bütschli celebrated at his centenary as the architect of —protozoology and the term came into wide. use
Thus, the ecological role of protozoa in the transfer of bacterial and algal production to successive trophic levels is important. As predators, they prey upon unicellular or filamentous algae, bacteria, and microfungi. Protozoan species include both herbivores and consumers in the decomposer link of the food chain. They also control bacteria populations and biomass to some extent. On average, protozoa eat ~ 100 to 1,000 bacteria per hour. The definition of Protozoa as a phylum or sub-kingdom made up of unicellular animals was adopted by the zoologist Otto Buetschli —bütschli celebrated at his centenary as the architect of —protozoology and the term came into wide. use
Algae are unicellular or multicellular organisms (formerly classified as plants) that have chlorophyll but lack true stems, roots, and leaves. Algae include the seaweeds, diatoms, and spirogyra. Prokaryotic Organisms-The Cyanobacteria Cyanobacteria belong to Domain Bacteria. These microscopic organisms lack nuclei. The Protists-Eukaryotic Organisms Kingdom Protista Single-celled, eukaryotic organisms are called protists. They are grouped together in Kingdom Protista. Those protists that are animal-like are put in Subkingdom Protozoa, and the protists that are plantlike belong to Subkingdom Algae.
Prokaryotic unicellular organisms are protists and some fungi. Some of these unicellular prokaryotes live in colonies. They live together and all the cells of the colony is the same. All the process of life is carried out in each cell in order for the cell to survive. Simplest multicellular organisms are made of cells that dependent on each other for their survival.
multicellular means to have more than one cell. For example, we are  multicellular, but on the other hand if something only has one  cell, then it is considered unicellular. … Also it is a single cell.
Bacteria, a rchaea, protozoa, unicellular algae and un i cellular fungi are the main groups of unicellular organisms. The single-cell regulates all the activity of the organism. Unicellular organisms are small are mostly invisible to the naked eye. Some of these unicellular prokaryotes live in colonies. They live together and all the cells of the colony is the same. All the process of life is carried out in each cell in order for the cell to survive. Simplest multicellular organisms are made of cells that dependent on each other for their survival.
unicellular organisms are the organisms which have one cell  it is also known as a single-celled organism.  example: Amoeba, Bacteria, Euglena, Paramecium,  Cyanobacteria e … tc.    Multicellular organisms are organisms that consist of more  than one cell. example man, bird, panda, parrot etc. 
Protozoans are nothing but microorganisms that are unicellular (having only one cell) such as amoeba. Protozoa exist throughout aqueous environments and soil, occupying a rang … e of trophic levels. As predators, they prey upon unicellular or filamentous algae, bacteria, and microfungi. For example, we are  multicellular, but on the other hand if something only has one  cell, then it is considered unicellular. … Also it is a single cell.
Unicellular eukaryotic organisms-these organisms are unicellular and are eukaryotes. They have membrane bound true nucleus and other membrane bound organelles. These are mainly free living or aquatic parasites like the protozoans, some fungi and algae or some protists. Some of these unicellular prokaryotes live in colonies. They live together and all the cells of the colony is the same. All the process of life is carried out in each cell in order for the cell to survive. Simplest multicellular organisms are made of cells that dependent on each other for their survival.
Unicellular prokaryotic organisms-they are unicellular in nature and they do not have membrane bound nucleus and membrane bound cellular organelles. These organisms are usually bacteria and cyanobacteria. Example: E.coli, Salmonella, Nostoc, etc. Some of these unicellular prokaryotes live in colonies. They live together and all the cells of the colony is the same. All the process of life is carried out in each cell in order for the cell to survive. Simplest multicellular organisms are made of cells that dependent on each other for their survival.