A refrigerator maintains a temperature a few degrees above the freezing point of water. Optimum temperature range for perishable food storage is 3 to 5 °C (37 to 41 °F). Commercial refrigerator and freezer units were in use for almost 40 years prior to the common home models. Most households use the freezer-on-top-and-refrigerator-on-bottom style, which has been the basic style since the 1940s.
1 If you do lose power, keep the doors to your fridge and freezer closed as much as possible to keep foods cold. 2  Before using any foods, check your refrigerator and freezer thermometers. 3  If the fridge is still at or below 40 °F, or the food has been above 40 °F for only two hours or less, it should be safe to eat. In addition to keeping the temperature in your fridge at 40 °F, you can take additional steps to make sure your refrigerated foods stay as safe as possible. 1  Avoid Overpacking 2  .. Cold air must circulate around refrigerated foods to keep them properly chilled. 3  Wipe Up Spills Immediately.
1 Fridge: put the thermometer in a glass of water. 2  Check the temperature during the first door opening after not using the fridge for 8 hours or more (such as overnight). 3  Freezer: put thermometer between two bags of vegetables and as above check after 8 hours or more. 1 Check the temperature during the first door opening after not using the fridge for 8 hours or more (such as overnight). 2
In order to keep food out of the Danger Zone, your fridge must be set between 32-40° F (0-4 degrees Celsius). Your freezer must be below 32° F (0° Celsius). I keep mine as cold as it will go. Keep your freezer efficient by half-filling it with bottles of water. 
1 Keep the refrigerator temperature at or below 40° F (4° C). 2  The freezer temperature should be 0° F (-18° C). 3  Check temperatures periodically. 4  Appliance thermometers are the best way of knowing these temperatures and are generally inexpensive. 1 Also, when putting food away, don't crowd the refrigerator or freezer so tightly that air can't circulate. 2  Keep your appliances at the proper temperatures. 3  Keep the refrigerator temperature at or below 40° F (4° C). 4  The freezer temperature should be 0° F (-18° C). 5
When it comes to protecting yourself and your family from foodborne illness, one of your most effective tools is the kitchen refrigerator. In fact, at room temperature, the numbers of bacteria that cause foodborne sickness can double every 20 minutes! In addition to keeping the temperature in your fridge at 40 °F, you can take additional steps to make sure your refrigerated foods stay as safe as possible. 1  Avoid Overpacking 2  .. Cold air must circulate around refrigerated foods to keep them properly chilled. 3  Wipe Up Spills Immediately.
The optimal temperature range for the refrigerator is 34 to 40 degrees Fahrenheit to keep food safe and unfrozen. If your thermometer reading is outside of this range after the temperature test, adjust the temperature settings. Appliance Thermometer Information. You need a refrigerator/freezer thermometer to determine the current temperature range in both your fridge and freezer -- otherwise you won't know whether to adjust the temperatures to warmer or cooler settings.
1 A fridge should have a temperature of between 37°F(3°C) and 40°F (5°C). 2  Any higher and the food will go off, any lower and you’ll lose nutrients and fresh food can be ruined. 3  The ideal freezer temperature is 0°F (-18°C) which will store food safely and stop bacteria forming. 1 Check the temperature during the first door opening after not using the fridge for 8 hours or more (such as overnight). 2  Freezer: put thermometer between two bags of vegetables and as above check after 8 hours or more.
To measure the temperature: 1  Fridge: put the thermometer in a glass of water. 2  Check the temperature during the first door opening after not using the fridge for 8 hours or more (such as overnight). 3  Freezer: put thermometer between two bags of vegetables and as above check after 8 hours or more. 1 Check the temperature during the first door opening after not using the fridge for 8 hours or more (such as overnight). 2
Therefore, you want your refrigerator to be cold, but not so cold that it freezes things. The preferred temperature is somewhere between 35 and 38 degrees F (1.7 to 3.3 degrees C). Anything higher and foods will spoil too quickly (it also presents food poisoning problems, as described in several of the links below). 