Constipation and hard stool mainly result from not enough fiber in daily diets. Regularly eating high-fiber foods can soften the stool to promote digestion and overall health. Sipping warm liquids throughout the day will help to soften the stool and relieve pressure that can build up if the stool gets too hard. Warm water with lemon or a cup of tea are excellent choices for aiding in proper digestion.
Step 1. Drink plenty of water with your meals and between meals. Water helps soften your stool. If you do not drink enough fluids, your body will pull water from the colon, hardening the stools. Also avoid caffeinated beverages, which cause your body to lose water. Step 3. Take a psyllium husk supplement. This insoluble fiber is a bulk-forming laxative that helps enlarge stools making them easier to pass. Psyllium husk absorbs water in your intestines, swelling and forming a gel-like mass that helps soften and move waste through your digestive tract.
Consume Fibre-rich Foods. One of the best home remedies to soften bowels is consuming foods rich in fibre content. When your food lacks enough fibre content, your stools tend to be harder in consistency. Fibre rich foods can help your bowels retain water and move faster through your intestine
Bran Cereals. Other foods that soften stool include bran cereals (Shredded Wheat, Raisin Bran and Oat Bran warm cereal). Bran cereals are rich in fiber, which aid in digestion and support regular bowel movements. Bran cereals can also ease stomach cramps often associated with constipation. Other foods that soften stool include bran cereals (Shredded Wheat, Raisin Bran and Oat Bran warm cereal). Bran cereals are rich in fiber, which aid in digestion and support regular bowel movement
5. Avoid foods that increase your risk of constipation. Low-fiber foods can increase the risk of constipation, which leads to harder stool. Low-fiber foods to limit include: 1  Cheese, ice cream, and other dairy products. 2  Red meat. 3  Processed foods, including fast food and microwave dinners, as well as fried foods
Foods that Soften Stool. Attempting to pass hard or sharp stool can be so painful that you may choose not to have a bowel movement rather than continue to experience this grave discomfort, particularly if it feels as though you are tearing or scratching your bowel in the process. Sipping warm liquids throughout the day will help to soften the stool and relieve pressure that can build up if the stool gets too hard. Warm water with lemon or a cup of tea are excellent choices for aiding in proper digestion.
Beans. Foods that soften stool include beans. Legumes, like adzuki beans and soybeans, are rich in calcium, zinc, iron, protein and fiber, nutrients that soften stool, regulate normal bowel movements, aid in digestion, repair injuries and strengthen your immune system. Other foods that soften stool include bran cereals (Shredded Wheat, Raisin Bran and Oat Bran warm cereal). Bran cereals are rich in fiber, which aid in digestion and support regular bowel movements.
Another food to help relieve constipation is flaxseeds. Flaxseeds are rich in fiber and essential fatty acids, healthy fats that soften stool and ease constipation. The best way to use flaxseeds as a stool softener is to add approximately 2 tablespoons of flaxseed to your cereal or meals. Other foods that soften stool include bran cereals (Shredded Wheat, Raisin Bran and Oat Bran warm cereal). Bran cereals are rich in fiber, which aid in digestion and support regular bowel movements.
Wheat bran cereal, such as Raisin Bran or Shredded Wheat, are extremely high in fiber. You can also have warm cereals such as grits, oatmeal or Cream of Wheat. Warm foods and liquids are sometimes helpful in relieving constipation or stomach cramps as a result of constipation. Consider sprinkling some raisins into your cereal (hot or cold) for additional fiber. Refined breads and grains can cause constipation or hardening of the stools. It is recommended to avoid these foods until the stools soften; however, if you do consume these foods, go for whole grain breads or whole wheat pasta.