Frequently Asked Questions. The list of Frequently Asked Questions has been organized into several categories. Please click a category below to view the questions and answers for that category. 1  About the GMAT Exam. 2  Browser Issues. 3  IR Prep. 4  Making & Changing Your GMAT Exam Appointment
A GMAT appointment costs US$250, plus local taxes for the country in which you take the test. In the UK this is VAT which is currently 20%. Your overall score will be from 200 to 800 and the subscores will be scored from 0 to 60. For each of your scores, you will also receive a percentile rank, which shows the percentage of examinees who scored below you (based on everyone who has taken the GMAT in the last 3 years).
Wondering what the GMAT is going to cost you when you register? Here is the fee breakdown for the GMAT Test, including rescheduling fees and cancellation refunds. 
Refund on Cancellation. When cancelling online more than 7 full days prior to the date and time of GMAT appointment, you will receive a refund of US$80. If cancelled in less than 7 full days prior to appointment date and time, there is no refund. 
GMAT scores are valid for 5 years. Every time you take the test and send your score to a school, the school will be able to see every GMAT score you have attained in the previous 5 years. Your overall score will be from 200 to 800 and the subscores will be scored from 0 to 60. For each of your scores, you will also receive a percentile rank, which shows the percentage of examinees who scored below you (based on everyone who has taken the GMAT in the last 3 years).
A: To schedule a GMAT exam, you will first need to create an account. Once you have an account, you may: register, reschedule, or cancel a GMAT® exam; download free test preparation software; or save your preferences. To schedule by phone, call the number below for your region. Please note, there will be a USD $10 surcharge for scheduling by phone. Americas: 
The cost to take the GMAT exam is US $250 globally. The GMAT fee can be paid through Credit card (Visa, MasterCard, American Express, or JCB) or through mailed forms like cashier’s check, money order or a personal check. Payments by check must be payable in U.S. dollars and drawn on banks located in the United States.
The current fee to register for the GMAT is $250 (USD). If a test appointment is cancelled at least seven calendar days prior to the scheduled appointment, a partial refund of $80 (USD) is issued. The test fee of $250 includes the release of your score report to up to five business schools. Additional score reports can be requested for an additional cost of $25 per school.
Note: As for June 2014, the cost of the GRE–for everyone–is $195. Most people opt to do a little more than just sign up for the test. Below are some additional costs you might incur when tackling the GRE. You can only buy one book and learn quite a bit – a good plan if you are a book learning without much to spend. GRE cost for the ambitious self-studier (Cost: $150 – $200). There is a wealth of helpful materials you will want to avail yourself of, if you aim to do well.
The cost to take the GMAT was $250 as of December 2010. In the United States, students do not pay any type of government tax on the registration fee; residents of 28 other countries do paid a tax of 5 to 25 percent, in addition to the registration fee. 