Barrel Vault. A vault is an arched brick or stone ceiling or roof of a building. A barrel vault is a type of vault with continuous arched surface, resembling the inside of a barrel or tunnel. One more disadvantage of barrel vault is that it forms a series of continuous arches which are most of the time so deep that they cover a three-dimensional space. This makes the interior of the structures extremely dark as they provide very little intrusion for light.
The simplest kind of vault is the barrel vault (also called a wagon or tunnel vault) which is generally semicircular in shape. The barrel vault is a continuous arch, the length being greater than its diameter. As in building an arch, a temporary support is needed while rings of voussoirs are constructed and the rings placed in position. Until the topmost voussoir, the keystone, is positioned, the vault is not self-supporting. However, when the vault is built above ground, various replacements are employed to supply the needed resistance. An example is the thicker walls used in the case of barrel or continuous vaults. Buttresses are used to supply resistance when intersecting vaults are employed.
A barrel vault is the simplest form of a vault and resembles a barrel or tunnel cut lengthwise in half. The effect is that of a structure composed of continuous semicircular or pointed sections. However, when the vault is built above ground, various replacements are employed to supply the needed resistance. An example is the thicker walls used in the case of barrel or continuous vaults. Buttresses are used to supply resistance when intersecting vaults are employed.
The Cloisters, New York City. A barrel vault, also known as a tunnel vault or a wagon vault, is an architectural element formed by the extrusion of a single curve (or pair of curves, in the case of a pointed barrel vault) along a given distance. The curves are typically circular in shape, lending a semi-cylindrical appearance to the total design. The barrel vault is the simplest form of a vault: effectively a series of arches placed side by side, i.e., one after another. It is a form of barrel roof.
Barrel vault is a type of vault with its semi-cylindrical arched surface allongated to form a barrel or tunnel shaped structure. Barrel vaults have been an integral part of ancient architecture and is seen in several churches and cathedrals. slide 1 of 3. One more disadvantage of barrel vault is that it forms a series of continuous arches which are most of the time so deep that they cover a three-dimensional space. This makes the interior of the structures extremely dark as they provide very little intrusion for light.
Example sentences. 1  The entrance in the north facade of the barrel vault is over an open, hard paved, elliptical piazza. 2  Externally, the barrel vault is covered in patinated zinc, emerging from the ground with a glazed facade to the south while, within, the precast vaulted roof is expressed. 1 The entrance in the north facade of the barrel vault is over an open, hard paved, elliptical piazza.
A barrel vault is a specialty ceiling treatment used in foyers, entrances, and hallways. Barrel vaults can have a radius, elliptical, or keystone style. At Stanton Homes, we believe every home should include exceptional architectural flare, with ceiling details like these barrel vaults. Stanton Home
Glossary of Medieval Art and Architecture. barrel vault or tunnel vault: The simplest form of a vault, consisting of a continuous surface of semicircular or pointed sections. It resembles a barrel or tunnel which has been cut in half lengthwise Compare with:groin vault. Types of barrel vault: longitudinal. Click here for pronounciation. 