Poke with ahi poke (yellow-fin tuna poke) made with green onions, chili peppers, sea salt, soy sauce, sesame oil, roasted kukui nut (candlenut), and limukohu seaweed, shown here served on a bed of red cabbage. Poke /poʊˈkeɪ/ is a raw salad served as an appetizer in Hawaiian cuisine. Pokē is the Hawaiian verb for section or to slice or cut. Ahi poke is made with yellowfin tuna.
Poke is a feature on the social networking site Facebook which a user can use for the intention of getting another Facebook user’s attention. In facebook, the poke button is located under the profile photo of the person’s Facebook profile page. For instance, if the user’s name is John, it appears as “Poke John”.
In real life, to poke is to usually get somebody’s attention by using a pointed finger or any pointy object. In facebook, the poke button is located under the profile photo of the person’s Facebook profile page. For instance, if the user’s name is John, it appears as “Poke John”. When somebody pokes you, on the other hand, you get a notification on your home page in Facebook
How do I poke someone? People poke their friends or friends of friends on Facebook for a lot of reasons (ex: just saying hello, getting their attention). When you poke someone, they'll receive a notification. To poke someone: 1  Go to your friend's profile. 2  Click on their cover photo. 3  Select Poke.
People poke their friends or friends of friends on Facebook for a lot of reasons (ex: just saying hello, getting their attention). When you poke someone, they'll receive a notification. To poke someone: 1  Go to your friend's profile. 2  Click on their cover photo. Once you remove a poke from your pokes page you can't get it back, but you're able to poke your friend again. Keep in mind you can't be poked by the same person unless you poke them back or remove their poke first. Permalink · Share · Related articles.
Modern poke typically consists of cubed raw ʻahi (yellowfin tuna) marinated with sea salt, a small amount of soy sauce, inamona (roasted crushed candlenut), sesame oil, limu seaweed, and chopped chili pepper. Poke /poʊˈkeɪ/ is a raw salad served as an appetizer in Hawaiian cuisine. Pokē is the Hawaiian verb for section or to slice or cut. Ahi poke is made with yellowfin tuna.
The poke will indicate “John” if John poked you, with the option to “poke back” indicated beside the name. Poke is similar in nature to the “nudge” feature of MSN Messenger or the “Buzz” feature of Yahoo Messenger, but more subdued. In facebook, the poke button is located under the profile photo of the person’s Facebook profile page. For instance, if the user’s name is John, it appears as “Poke John”.
When you poke someone, they'll get a notification and will then be able to poke you back. Keep in mind only the person you poke can see that you've poked them. If you don't want people poking you, you can block them. If you'd like to see all your pokes, visit your pokes page. Once you remove a poke from your pokes page you can't get it back, but you're able to poke your friend again. Keep in mind you can't be poked by the same person unless you poke them back or remove their poke first. Permalink · Share · Related articles.