Mykolaiv is one of Ukraine's most important transportation junctions. It is a major commercial river and sea port, and a major highway and rail junction. Mykolaiv also has a dual-function passenger and freight airport, but passenger service at the airport is not significant, compared to Ukraine's major airports. Mykolaiv's professional basketball team is MBC Mykolaiv. The team has won or finished second or third in several international tournaments since 1988, and won the Ukrainian Championship in 1992. MBC Mykolaiv is part of the Ukrainian Basketball SuperLeague, which is the top professional basketball league in Ukraine.
In April 2007, Mykolaiv Oblast (County) Council decided to joint-stockicize the airport, with the goal of subsequent privatization. In March 2008, the Oblast (County) Council created a commission for privatization of the enterprise, Mykolaiv International Airport. In 1993, the new passenger terminal was built. In that year the airport received its certiciate for the third category of International organization of passenger aviation (IKAO) as an airport for internal flights in the USSR with the right to accept Ty-134 airplanes and airplanes of similar classes.
Transportation And Parking at NLV. When you have a flight from Mykolaiv (NLV), take advantage of the various transportation options available. If you’ve bribed your friend to drive you the airport, use the convenient curbside drop-off or the short-term parking at NLV. Check your flight status at NLV to determine if there are any changes in your itinerary. Once you’ve confirmed your NLV flight status, many airlines recommend you arrive at the airport at least two hours early for domestic flights and three hours prior to international flights.
The airport is also increased to receive the Airbus 310. The air terminal complex before 2013 had a throughput capacity up to 400 passengers per hour on internal airline flights and up to 100 passengers per hour on international flights. Since late 2014 the throughput capacity is 300 persons per hour. In 1993, the new passenger terminal was built. In that year the airport received its certiciate for the third category of International organization of passenger aviation (IKAO) as an airport for internal flights in the USSR with the right to accept Ty-134 airplanes and airplanes of similar classes.
When flying from Mykolaiv (NLV), give yourself plenty of time to make your flight because nothing’s worse than running to catch your plane. Getting to the airport early lets you check into your flight, drop off your luggage, pass through the TSA checkpoint, and leisurely arrive at your terminal gate with time to spare. Check your flight status at NLV to determine if there are any changes in your itinerary. Once you’ve confirmed your NLV flight status, many airlines recommend you arrive at the airport at least two hours early for domestic flights and three hours prior to international flights.
Class B airport has a modern runway ready to receive aircraft with landing weight up to 220 tonnes (220 long tons; 240 short tons) and to hold eight  IL-76  aircraft equipped with lighting, radio and navigation equipment. In 1993, the new passenger terminal was built. In that year the airport received its certiciate for the third category of International organization of passenger aviation (IKAO) as an airport for internal flights in the USSR with the right to accept Ty-134 airplanes and airplanes of similar classes.
Mykolaiv Airport (IATA code NLV), one of the largest and most technically well-equipped airports in the South of Ukraine, serves the city. The airport, located South East of Mykolaiv, is mainly used for air freight and only has limited passenger service. Mykolaiv's professional basketball team is MBC Mykolaiv. The team has won or finished second or third in several international tournaments since 1988, and won the Ukrainian Championship in 1992. MBC Mykolaiv is part of the Ukrainian Basketball SuperLeague, which is the top professional basketball league in Ukraine.
Mykolaiv is located on a peninsula in Ukraine's steppe region 65 kilometers (40 mi) from the Black Sea along the estuary of the Southern Bug river (where it meets the Inhul River). Both the Inhul River and the Southern Bug river follow very winding courses just before they join at the north east corner of Mykolaiv. Mykolaiv's professional basketball team is MBC Mykolaiv. The team has won or finished second or third in several international tournaments since 1988, and won the Ukrainian Championship in 1992. MBC Mykolaiv is part of the Ukrainian Basketball SuperLeague, which is the top professional basketball league in Ukraine.
Check for the cheapest flights to and from Mykolaiv – NLV on Expedia by searching in our cheap airfare section. We offer year-round discount flights from NLV to a broad range of destinations on a wide selection of airlines. Let Expedia help you find great deals on Mykolaiv airfare and book your Mykolaiv flights today to and from NLV airport. Check your flight status at NLV to determine if there are any changes in your itinerary. Once you’ve confirmed your NLV flight status, many airlines recommend you arrive at the airport at least two hours early for domestic flights and three hours prior to international flights.