The process of respiration produces energy for organisms by combining glucose with oxygen from the air. During cellular respiration, glucose and oxygen are changed into energy and carbon dioxide. Therefore, carbon dioxide is released into the atmosphere during the process of cellular respiration. glucose + oxygen → carbon dioxide + water + energy. Respiration is also the process by which once-living (organic) organisms are decomposed. When organisms die, they are decomposed by bacteria. Carbon dioxide is released into the atmosphere or water during the decomposition process. Carbon dioxide is also released when organisms breathe. Respiration also takes place at the cellular level. All plants and animals return both carbon dioxide and water vapor to the atmosphere. Every cell needs to respire to produce the energy it needs.
1 Carbon moves from the atmosphere to plants. 2  In the atmosphere, carbon is attached to oxygen in a gas called carbon dioxide (CO 2). 3  With the help of the Sun, through the process of photosynthesis, carbon dioxide is pulled from the air to make plant food from carbon. 4  Carbon moves from plants to animals. It is always on the move! 1 
Carbon dioxide is a by-product of respiration ] and combustion combustion: Combustion is the process of burning by fire. . Green plants remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere by photosynthesis. Living organisms-including all plants and animals-release energy from their food using respiration. Respiration and combustion-burning-both release carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. These processes form a carbon cycle in which the proportion of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere remains about the same. The animation should help you to understand how the cycle works
carbon cycle. carbon cycle, in biology, the exchange of carbon between living organisms and the nonliving environment. Inorganic carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is converted by plants into simple carbohydrates, which are then used to produce more complex substances. Animals eat the plants and are then eaten by other animals. Animals and some microorganisms require the carbon-containing substances from plants in order to produce energy and as a source of materials for many of their own biochemical reactions; this cycle is vital to them. The process of incorporating carbon dioxide into the molecules of living matter is called fixation.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Well: organisms that use oxygen (to breath) release carbon dioxide into the air as a product of the process of cellular respiration. Animals do this, and plants do this
1 Carbon moves from living things to the atmosphere. 2  Each time you exhale, you are releasing carbon dioxide gas (CO 2) into the atmosphere. 3  Animals and plants get rid of carbon dioxide gas through a process called respiration. It is always on the move! 1  Carbon moves from the atmosphere to plants. 2  In the atmosphere, carbon is attached to oxygen in a gas called carbon dioxide (CO 2). 3  With the help of the Sun, through the process of photosynthesis, carbon dioxide is pulled from the air to make plant food from carbon.
Confidence votes 79.9K. The Carbon Dioxide trapped from the air by plants (using light energy from the sun in the process of photosynthesis) is converted by plants into sugars. The production of Sugars makes plants release Oxygen into the air. Organisms (such as animals) eat the plants and use the sugars as food. Plants pull carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, releasing the  oxygen and retaining the carbon, in a process known as  photosynthesis. Most photosynthesis is performed by ma … rine (ocean)  cyanobacteria.    Plants, trees and forests act as big carbon sinks, provided they do  not burn