Causes of Back Muscle Spasms Video. Muscle spasms in the back can be caused by a muscle strain, a sprained muscle, or an underlying condition. Treatment for Back Pain Flare-Ups Video. Learn about treatments for low back pain, including proper methods for controlling inflammation, strength training, medications and more. The first step to getting to the bottom of what your back is telling you and to feeling better is to determine the cause of your back muscle spasm. Muscles spasms occur: 1  As a result of the muscles trying to protect themselves from a muscle strain or sprain or. 2  In response to
If you have an injury or a muscle that is causing constant or repeating spasms, you should see your physician. Your doctor can prescribe medicine that will help relax your muscles and increase blood flow. Talk to your doctor if any medicine you take causes muscle spasms. 1  Flexeril (cyclobenzaprine) is a commonly prescribed medication for moderate to severe muscle spasms that works on your central nervous system to relax your muscles. 2  Some muscle relaxers are highly addictive. Treat spasms with over the counter pain relievers. Sometimes muscle spasms can cause extreme pain. Ask your doctor about taking over the counter pain medicine, such as nonsteroidal anti-infammatory drugs (NSAIDS). These include ibuprofen (Advil) or naproxen sodium (Aleve). You may also try acetaminophen (Tylenol).
Typically, muscle relaxants are prescribed early in a course of back pain, on a short-term basis, to relieve low back pain associated with muscle spasms. There are several types of muscle relaxant medications that are commonly used to treat low back pain. 1  See: Pulled Back Muscle and Lower Back Strain. Back Spasm Causes Video. 1  Carisoprodol (Soma) . 2  This drug's dosage is 350mg every eight hours as needed for muscle spasm. 3  Soma is typically prescribed on a short-term basis and may be habit-forming, especially if used in conjunction with alcohol or other drugs that have a sedative effect.
Muscle strains are also known as a pulled muscle. When the muscles in the lower back are strained or torn, the area around the muscles can become inflamed. With inflammation, the muscles can spasm leading to severe low back pain and difficulty moving. Answer: Muscle spasm results from inflammation that occurs when a muscle is overstretched or torn. It begins as a muscle strain, which doesn't sound like a serious injury, but it can cause severe low back pain. Many people go to the emergency room each year because of a muscle strain.
Medicine can decrease low back pain and reduce muscle spasms in some people. But medicine alone isn't an effective treatment for low back pain. It should be used along with other treatments, such as walking and using heat or ice. 1 Some of them also come in stronger doses. 2  For those, you'll need a prescription. 3  Muscle relaxantsMuscle relaxants. 4  These medicines can help when you get bad muscle spasms along with low back pain. 5  Side effects, such as drowsiness, are common. 6  Opiate pain relieversOpiate pain relievers.
Take medication. If you have severe smooth muscle spasms, your doctor may be able to prescribe you medicine. For example, medications such as anticholinergic agents can help intestinal spasms that do not respond to diet and lifestyle changes. Treat spasms with over the counter pain relievers. Sometimes muscle spasms can cause extreme pain. Ask your doctor about taking over the counter pain medicine, such as nonsteroidal anti-infammatory drugs (NSAIDS). These include ibuprofen (Advil) or naproxen sodium (Aleve). You may also try acetaminophen (Tylenol).
1 These medicines can help when you get bad muscle spasms along with low back pain. 2  Side effects, such as drowsiness, are common. 3  Opiate pain relieversOpiate pain relievers. 4  These are very strong medicines that are sometimes tried to ease sudden, severe back pain that has not been controlled by other medicines. 1 Some of them also come in stronger doses. 2  For those, you'll need a prescription. 3  Muscle relaxantsMuscle relaxants. 4  These medicines can help when you get bad muscle spasms along with low back pain. 5  Side effects, such as drowsiness, are common. 6
A back spasm is a sudden and involuntary contraction, or uncontrollable tightening, of a muscle in response to strain, overuse, weakness, or muscle pain related to injury or a disorder. Back spasms often occur near the spinal cord or near the nerve roots that lead in and out of the spinal cord. 
Medications for Back Pain Video. Muscle relaxants are not really a class of drugs, but rather a group of different drugs that each has an overall sedative effect on the body. These drugs do not act directly on the muscles; rather they act centrally (in the brain) and are more of a total body relaxant. Back Spasm Causes Video. 1  Carisoprodol (Soma) . 2  This drug's dosage is 350mg every eight hours as needed for muscle spasm. 3  Soma is typically prescribed on a short-term basis and may be habit-forming, especially if used in conjunction with alcohol or other drugs that have a sedative effect.
If you suffer from a headache, back ache, neck pain, or other conditions that cause muscle spasms, first try other therapies that don’t involve medications, such as using a heating pad, exercise, biofeedback, or progressive relaxation, massage, or yoga. This makes it difficult to determine if any of the muscle relaxants are more effective or pose more safety concerns than others. There are six muscle relaxants approved to treat back or neck aches, headaches, and other conditions that are due to painful muscle spasms. As you can see, all are available in generic forms.