Level: Easy. Fold the paper in half upwards to make a triangle. Fold the top corner down so that the edges meet, and unfold after making a line. Fold the corner up so its tip meets the edge of the paper at the line you made. Next, fold the other tip up so it meets the corner you just created. Fold the top flap down toward you.
A trophy could range from a simple cup to an elaborate sculpture on a base. You can create a trophy by building 1 as an arts-and-crafts project or engrave a custom trophy made by a vendor. Try either of these methods to make a trophy. Ad
1 Consider using crayons, coloring pencils, pens or stickers to decorate your trophy. 2  If purchasing a customized trophy, other trophies exist that are made out of materials such as crystal or cobalt and are a different color than the standard gold. You can create a trophy by building 1 as an arts-and-crafts project or engrave a custom trophy made by a vendor.
How to Fold a Cup from a Sheet of Paper. A paper cup is easy to fold. It can hold a liquid, such as water, or a small snack, such as jelly beans. To fold a cup from a sheet of paper, follow the steps provided. Tips. 1  The cup will last longer if you double up on paper beforehand to make the cup twice as thick. 2  While construction paper is sturdier, it contains coloring that isn't safe to consume. 3  When folding, try to make edges as straight as possible for best results.
Origami Drinking Cup Instructions. The origami drinking cup is a traditional and popular design, and if you make it out of grease proof paper, you can actually use it as a real cup! For a printable .pdf version of the drinking cup instructions, click here. 
Tada...you have a ribbon award. If you want to make a trophy, here is one way to do it....Take a large disposable cup that is wider than a cardboard toilet paper roll. Find a cup or something round to trace a circle that is wider than the toilet paper roll....and trace it on a piece of cardboard. Glue that cardboard to the bottom of the toilet paper roll. Glue the cup to the top of the toilet paper roll. Cut out cardboard handles.
Make a Golden Trophy with Two Paper Cups. To make this golden trophy, you will need a large cup and a smaller cup. You can use yellow cups or you can cover them with yellow paper or paing. Then Glue the bigger one to the bottom of the smaller one ... Cup and Ball Games-Find out how you can make a homemade cup and ball game. Cup and Ball Joseph Crafts-Make a homemade Joseph for your nativity scene using a polystyrene ball and a paper cup. Cup and Ball King Crafs-Make a homemade Kings for your nativity scene using three polystyrene balls and three paper cups.
How to Make Gift Baskets out of Paper Cups. To make this craft, you will need one large colored paper cup, scissors, enough heavy colored yarn for a handle, paste, decorative items, cut flowers or lollipops or pieces of wrapped candy, etc. Cup and Ball Games-Find out how you can make a homemade cup and ball game. Cup and Ball Joseph Crafts-Make a homemade Joseph for your nativity scene using a polystyrene ball and a paper cup. Cup and Ball King Crafs-Make a homemade Kings for your nativity scene using three polystyrene balls and three paper cups.
Airplanes-Find out how you can make your own plane using recycled materials. A Paper Cup Lions-Children can create their own lion craft using a paper cup and a toilet paper roll. A Playful Pop-Up Pumpkin Puppets-These Pop-Up Pumpkin Puppets makes a great Halloween craft for kids. Cup and Ball Games-Find out how you can make a homemade cup and ball game. Cup and Ball Joseph Crafts-Make a homemade Joseph for your nativity scene using a polystyrene ball and a paper cup. Cup and Ball King Crafs-Make a homemade Kings for your nativity scene using three polystyrene balls and three paper cups.
This origami video shows you how to make a simple paper cup that you can actually drink out of… for a few minutes at least. When people find out that I do origami, they almost always ask me for one of three folds: paper cup, paper crane or a cootie-catcher (also called a fortune teller). 