In the human skin, the dermal papillae (DP) (singular papilla, diminutive of Latin papula, 'pimple') are small, nipple-like extensions (or interdigitations) of the dermis into the epidermis. At the surface of the skin in hands and feet, they appear as epidermal or papillary ridges (colloquially known as fingerprints). Dermal papillae also play a pivotal role in hair formation, growth and cycling. In mucous membranes, the equivalent structures to dermal papillae are generally termed connective tissue papillae, which interdigitate with the rete pegs of the superficial epithelium.
Medical Definition of CIRCUMVALLATE PAPILLA. : any of the usually 8 to 12 large papillae near the back of the tongue each of which is surrounded with a marginal sulcus and supplied with taste buds responsive especially to bitter flavors—called also vallate papilla. Tweet. : any of the usually 8 to 12 large papillae near the back of the tongue each of which is surrounded with a marginal sulcus and supplied with taste buds responsive especially to bitter flavors—called also vallate papilla.
Lingual papillae (singular papilla) are the small, nipple or hair–like structures on the upper surface of the tongue that give the tongue its characteristic rough texture. There are four types of lingual papillae on the human tongue: circumvallate papillae (vallate papillae), fungiform papillae, filiform papillae and foliate papillae.
2. papilla-a small nipple-shaped protuberance concerned with taste, touch, or smell; the papillae of the tongue. sense organ, sensory receptor, receptor-an organ having nerve endings (in the skin or viscera or eye or ear or nose or mouth) that respond to stimulation. 3. papilla-a small projection of tissue at the base of a hair or tooth or feather. appendage, outgrowth, process-a natural prolongation or projection from a part of an organism either animal or plant; a bony process.
1. papilla - (botany) a tiny outgrowth on the surface of a petal or leaf. appendage, outgrowth, process-a natural prolongation or projection from a part of an organism either animal or plant; a bony process. phytology, botany-the branch of biology that studies plants. 3. papilla-a small projection of tissue at the base of a hair or tooth or feather
papilla. [pəpil′ə] pl. papillae. Etymology: L, nipple. 1 a small nipple-shaped projection, such as the conoid papillae of the tongue and the papillae of the dermis that extend from collagen fibers, the capillary blood vessels, and sometimes the nerves of the dermis. gingival papilla the cone-shaped pad of gingiva filling the space between the teeth up to the contact area. hair papilla the fibrovascular mesodermal papilla enclosed within the hair bulb. incisive papilla an elevation at the anterior end of the raphe of the palate.
papillae of tongue. Definitions: 1. numerous variously shaped projections of the mucous membrane of the dorsum of the tongue; includes filiform, foliate, fungiform, and vallate papillae. Synonyms: lingual papillae1, papilla lingualis. The definition information for papillae of tongue is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here.
1. A small nipplelike projection, such as a protuberance on the skin, at the root of a hair or feather, or at the base of a developing tooth. 2. One of the small, round or cone-shaped protuberances on the top of the tongue that contain taste buds. 3. 3. papilla-a small projection of tissue at the base of a hair or tooth or feather. appendage, outgrowth, process-a natural prolongation or projection from a part of an organism either animal or plant; a bony process.
Anal papilla: A skin tag that projects up from the junction between the skin and the inside lining of the anus. Anal papillae tend to occur with anal fissures and may be detected on a digital examination of the anus or with a scope. Removal is only necessary if the anal papillae are causing symptoms. 