As water temperature and daylight hours increase, crappie began their migration to shallower waters to spawn. The magic number the water temperature needs to reach is heavily debated, but most agree between 56-59 degrees will find white crappie in the process of spawning.
Water Temperature: 40 Degrees Schools of crappie often suspend in open water in 20-30 feet deep as they begin migrating from deep river channels toward major tributaries, where they will eventually spawn. Most females will remain on river channel structure in considerably deeper water.
By March, most Southern crappie waters have warmed into the 50s. When the water temperature is 50 to 56 degrees, most crappies will be found staging on flats ranging from 6 to 15 feet deep. Whenever anglers start catching fish shallow they often think the fish must be spawning.
Water Temperature: 45 Degrees Many crappies have started migrating toward their eventual spawning areas. Target crappie hanging tight to submerged wood on deep channel banks, about a quarter of the way into the creek arm, 10 to 20 feet deep.
Water Temperature and Crappie Most experienced anglers consider water temperature to be the single most important factor governing the occurrence and behavior of crappie and their locations.
Water Temperature: 75 Degrees While a few lingering crappie may still be spawning, postspawn fish will hang around bedding areas for several days until the water temperature rises. Some postspawn fish will be on isolated pieces of cover adjacent to spawning sites as the males move back in to protect the nests.
Water Temperature: 45 DegreesMany crappies have started migrating toward their eventual spawning areas. Target crappie hanging tight to submerged wood on deep channel banks, about a quarter of the way into the creek arm, 10 to 20 feet deep.
In early spring when the water temperature reaches the mid 50s, the crappie will go into their pre spawn mode. To find crappies this time of year look for the warmest sections of the lake.
Article #4. Water Temperature and Crappie Most experienced anglers consider water temperature to be the single most important factor governing the occurrence and behavior of crappie and their locations. They sometimes behave in what seems an irrational or unpredictable way.
At what temperature do crappie spawn? Crappies will spawn when water temperatures reach between fifty-eight and sixty-six degrees F. However, when the temperatures start reaching between forty-seven and fifty-four degrees F, the crappies will start moving closer to the spawning areas where they will make the nests.