Frontier Airlines chief operating officer John Bendoraitis is moving to Spirit Airlines to take the COO job there. The move comes as Frontier’s parent, Republic Airways Holdings, is talking to private investors about buying Frontier.
Frontier spokesman Todd Lehmacher said Monday that his airline wouldn't comment on speculation. But last week, Frontier responded to Spirit's incursion with a bold move of its own: a one-day, $15 one-way sale on 12 routes, including five shared by both airlines.
Never fly Frontier airlines, from their customer service-planes, they are by far the worst airline I've ever used. Traveling with a baby and wanted a seat next to her and her mother, they wanted to charge me extra at the gate in trenton when I was told first come first serve.
Frontier Airlines (F9) is a US low cost carrier that has its main operating hub situated at the Denver International Airport. The airline is a subsidiary of Republic Airways Holdings and is headquartered in Denver, Colorado, US.
Cleveland, Ohio -- Fasten your seatbelts, frequent fliers. We may be on the cusp of an old-fashioned airfare war, with cheap travel as the top reward, the result of an intensifying rivalry in Cleveland between low-cost competitors Frontier and Spirit airlines.
(Photo: Frontier Airlines.). This week, Republic and Indigo finally cleared the last major hurdles standing in the way of the sale. Within a month or so, Indigo Partners -- led by Chairman William Franke -- will have the opportunity to start remaking Frontier in the image of Spirit Airlines (NASDAQ: SAVE) .
Republic Airways Holdings said Tuesday that it has agreed to sell Frontier to an affiliate of the private-equity firm Indigo Partners, a key early investor in ultra-low-cost carrier Spirit Airlines. Indigo's affiliate will pay $36 million in cash, and assume roughly $109 million in Frontier's debt.
Frontier Airlines: From $15. Like Spirit Airlines, Frontier runs on a business model of cheap flight prices and few (read: almost no) complimentary extras. The tradeoff for having to pay for basic amenities like carry-on baggage is inexpensive airfare, especially when there’s a sale—like now.
The only destinations offered by Spirit not flown by Frontier: Los Angeles and Myrtle Beach, South Carolina. Paul Berry, a spokesman for Spirit, denied that the airline was making an aggressive push to take on Frontier in Cleveland. We were looking at Cleveland long before Frontier began service there, he said.