Noun. 1. ileocecal valve-valve between the ileum of the small intestine and the cecum of the large intestine; prevents material from flowing back from the large to the small intestine. valve-a structure in a hollow organ (like the heart) with a flap to insure one-way flow of fluid through it. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter
The ileocecal valve is located between the small and large intestine. Basically, it is located in the same area of the appendix and many times what is thought to be an appendix problem, is instead, a problem with this valve. 
Introducing Your Ileocecal Valve. Between the small intestine and the large intestine is a sphincter-type valve called the Ileocecal Valve (ICV). The purpose of this valve is to “prevent backflow” from the Large Intestine, once any material leaves the Small Intestine. Not all the contents entering the digestive tube are going to be absorbed as food. If the ileocecal valve becomes open and remains open, the contents of the large intestine can and do leak back into the small intestine. This is not good for many reasons. One reason is the contents of the two different sections of the tube have different pH chemistry.
Post. Share. The Ileocecal Valve is located between the ileum (last portion of your small intestine) and the cecum (first portion of your large intestine). Its function is to allow digested food materials to pass from the small intestine into your large intestine. When the ileocecal valve is stuck open waste products can back up into the small intestine (much like a backed up kitchen sink drain) disturbing your digestion and also creating unhealthy toxins that are absorbed into the body.
• ILEOCECAL VALVE (noun). The noun ILEOCECAL VALVE has 1 sense: 1. valve between the ileum of the small intestine and the cecum of the large intestine; prevents material from flowing back from the large to the small intestine. Familiarity information: ILEOCECAL VALVE used as a noun is very rare. Meaning: Valve between the ileum of the small intestine and the cecum of the large intestine; prevents material from flowing back from the large to the small intestine. Classified under: Nouns denoting body parts. Hypernyms (ileocecal valve is a kind of...):
The ileocecal valve (ileal papilla, ileocaecal valve, Tulp's valve, Tulpius valve, Bauhin's valve, ileocecal eminence, valve of Varolius or colic valve) is a sphincter muscle valve that separates the small intestine and the large intestine. The ileocecal valve is distinctive because it is the only site in the gastrointestinal tract that is used for Vitamin B12 and bile acid absorption. Roughly two litres of fluid enters the colon daily through the ileocecal valv