Some specific varieties of cysts are only found in the perianal region, including anal duct/gland cysts and sacrococcygeal teratomas. Before reviewing the anatomy of the region, defining specific terminology is helpful, because the definition of the perianal region has been quite variable in other sources.
A cyst is defined as an abnormal sac with a membranous lining, containing gas, fluid, or semisolid material. Most perianal cysts are 1 of 4 types, termed as follows: (1) epidermoid cysts, (2) dermoid cysts, (3) anal duct/gland cysts, and (4) sacrococcygeal teratomas.
A peritoneal cyst is a cyst that forms on a woman's abdomen or pelvis region. This condition typically occurs in women who are approaching menopause. These types of cysts can vary in size and can be anywhere from very tiny cysts to enlarged masses.
Perineural cysts, which are also known as Tarlov cysts, are fluid-filled sacs that form on nerves at the base of the spine. A person with such cysts would likely never know it. They almost never cause symptoms. When they do cause symptoms, however, the most common is pain in the lower back, buttocks, and legs. This occurs in rare cases when the cysts become enlarged with spinal fluid and press on nerves.
A cyst is a sac that can form anywhere in the body and is filled with air or some type of fluid. Most of these are completely benign and noncancerous. Perineural cysts are those that form in the sacrum, or the base of the spine.
Overview. Some specific varieties of cysts are only found in the perianal region, including anal duct/gland cysts and sacrococcygeal teratomas. Before reviewing the anatomy of the region, defining specific terminology is helpful, because the definition of the perianal region has been quite variable in other sources.
Overview. Perineural cysts, which are also known as Tarlov cysts, are fluid-filled sacs that form on nerves at the base of the spine. A person with such cysts would likely never know it. They almost never cause symptoms. When they do cause symptoms, however, the most common is pain in the lower back, buttocks, and legs. This occurs in rare cases when the cysts become enlarged with spinal fluid and press on nerves.