This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. The High Strung's The Luck You Got is a brilliant gem from their second album, Moxie Bravo. You'll soon recognize this track as the theme song to Showtime's original series Shameless, starring William H. Macy. Debuting Jan 9th, 2011!
http://www.sho.com/site/shameless/hom... The Luck You Got [Shameless Theme Song]. think of all the luck you got. know that it's not for naught. you were beaming once before. but it's not like that anymore. count all the moods you've known. know they're not stuck in stone. you were patient once before. 
The Shield theme song is by Romero, Bautista, Alejandro. I believe the name of it is On The Streets.     Promotional commercials for the final season of The Shield f … eatured a song by Beck titled Farewell Ride. 6 people found this useful
Shameless  is a song written by American singer Billy Joel and recorded on his 1989 album Storm Front. His version peaked at #40 on the Hot Adult Contemporary Tracks charts. Two years later, the song was covered by country music artist Garth Brooks on his third studio album, 1991's Ropin' the Wind. Brooks' rendering of the song was his seventh Number One hit on the Billboard country charts in late 1991. It also reached #71 on the UK Singles Chart. In 1993, on stage in Boston, Billy Joel introduced the song by saying, I want[ed] to write a song, like a Jimi Hendrix song, you know.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. THE HIGH STRUNG's THE LUCK YOU GOT is the theme song for the Showtime (American) version of Shameless. They wrote it and perform it. 
Best Answer: Malerman is a member of the Metro Detroit band The High Strung, whose song The Luck You Got serves as the theme for the new Showtime series Shameless, starring William H. Macy. What was the song playing at the end of Shameless (Showtime) season finale? Update: The song I was looking for is Littlething, by Jimmy Eat World.
The person who sings the theme song on shameless is Murray Gold. I believe the name of it is On The Streets.     Promotional commercials for the final season of The Shield f … eatured a song by Beck titled Farewell Ride.
The theme song for Shameless is The Luck You Got by indie rock group The High Strung. The majority of the music featured throughout the series is generally from indie rock bands. The pilot episode made use of music from artists such as Say Hi, 3OH!3 featuring Ke$ha, The Vines, The Moog and LMFAO. The first episode of the series, Pilot, was watched by 982,000 viewers, making it the network's biggest turnout for a series premiere since Dead Like Me in 2003. The episode airing January 30, Casey Casden, received 1.45 million total viewers, making Shameless the best performing first-year drama on Showtime.
The series composer Murry Gold sings the theme tune. He has also done work on the show Queer as Folk. 