Hemp is refined into products such as hemp seed foods, hemp oil, wax, resin, rope, cloth, pulp, paper, and fuel. Other variants of the herb Cannabis are widely used as a drug, commonly known as marijuana. Hemp (from Old English haenep) hænep is a commonly used term for-high growing varieties of The cannabis plant and its, products which include, fiber, oil and. seed
Uses: Hemp seeds are a nutritional powerhouse; packed with protein, essential fatty acids, omegas, amino acids, dietary fiber, iron, calcium and antioxidants. Use in cereal, salad, cookies, crackers, baking, smoothies, yogurt, hemp milk, bread, fruit salad and vegetables. 
Hemp seeds come from the same hemp plant renowned for its durable fiber. The seeds of the plant are edible (known as hemp seeds, or hemp nuts) and are used in a growing number of products today. See also: 1  Cooking with hemp seeds: Hemp seed recipes to try. 2  A complete list of hemp food recipes: Hemp oil, hemp seeds, hemp powder and more. Hemp seeds are being used in many packaged products, usually found in health food stores. Some of these products, such as hemp milk and ground hemp flour, are relatively simple to make at home from the seeds. Other products are not so easily replicated such as hemp oil, hemp ice cream, and hemp protein powder.
Hemp seeds are produced from the hemp plant, Cannabis sativa L. While hemp is commonly confused with marijuana, as it belongs to the same family, the two plants are quite different. Most notably is the level of THC, or delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol. The washed hemp seed contains no THC at all. The tiny amounts of THC contained in industrial hemp are in the glands of the plant itself. Sometimes, in the manufacturing process, some THC-and CBD-containing resin sticks to the seed, resulting in traces of THC in the oil that is produced.
\r\n\t Hemp seed may be one of nature's most perfect foods. Considered a complete protein, hemp seed delivers 5 grams of protein in a 2 Tbsp serving, making them a great addition to vegan and vegetarian diets. Hemp is truly a super food providing a perfect balance of omega-3 and omega-6 essential fatty acids in each serving.
All natural, raw organic hemp seeds out of the shell, also known as hemp hearts. These are one of the world's most nutritious seeds. Shelled hemp seeds are 33% protein and packed with Omega-3 fatty acids. Eat 3 tablespoons a day of this delicious organic hemp seeds treat to gain all of its health benefits. Raw organic hemp seeds also contain a healthy 3:1 ratio of Omega-6 and Omega-3 fatty acids which is rare in many of the foods consumed in Western diets. A proper balance of these essential fatty acids is important for controlling inflammation levels and preventing chronic conditions like heart disease.
Hemp is considered one of the world's most nutritious plants. Hemp seeds contain all of the essential amino acids making them an ideal source of protein for vegans and raw foodists. The essential fatty acids (both Omega-3s and Omega-6s) are abundant in hemp seeds and come in a ratio that is highly beneficial to humans. Hemp seeds are being used in many packaged products, usually found in health food stores. Some of these products, such as hemp milk and ground hemp flour, are relatively simple to make at home from the seeds. Other products are not so easily replicated such as hemp oil, hemp ice cream, and hemp protein powder.
Hemp Seeds are a gift of nature. They are the most nutritious seed in the world. Hemp Seeds are a complete protein. They have the most concentrated balance of proteins, essential fats, vitamins and enzymes combined with a relative absence of sugar, starches and saturated fats. Hemp Seeds are one of nature's perfect foods-a Super Food. The oil contained in the hemp seed is 75-80% polyunsaturated fatty acids (the good fats) and only 9-11% of the lesser desired saturated fatty acids. Hemp seed oil is reputed to be the most unsaturated oil derived from the plant kingdom.
Hemp (from Old English haenep) hænep is a commonly used term for-high growing varieties of The cannabis plant and its, products which include, fiber, oil and. Seed hemp is refined into products such as hemp seed, foods hemp, oil, wax, resin, rope, cloth, pulp, paper and. fuel Hemp (from Old English haenep) hænep is a commonly used term for-high growing varieties of The cannabis plant and its, products which include, fiber, oil and. seed