The DNA structure consists of two chainlike molecules (polynucleotides) that twist around each other to form the classic double-helix. The cell s machinery forms polynucleotide chains by linking together four nucleotides.
DNA is a double helix formed by base pairs attached to a sugar-phosphate backbone. DNA, or deoxyribonucleic acid, is the hereditary material in humans and almost all other organisms.
Watson and Crick discovered that DNA had two sides, or strands, and that these strands were twisted together like a twisted ladder -- the double helix. The sides of the ladder comprise the sugar-phosphate portions of adjacent nucleotides bonded together.
The base pairs in DNA are adenine with thymine and cytosine with guanine. DNA has a spiral staircase-like structure. The steps are formed by the nitrogen bases of the nucleotides where adenine pairs
DNA structure. DNA is made up of molecules called nucleotides. Each nucleotide contains a phosphate group, a sugar group and a nitrogen base. The four types of nitrogen bases are adenine (A), thymine (T), guanine (G) and cytosine (C). The order of these bases is what determines DNA's instructions, or genetic code.
DNA Structure. ­DNA is o­ne of the nucleic acids, information-containing molecules in the cell (ribonucleic acid, or RNA, is the other nucleic acid). DNA is found in the nucleus of every human cell. (See the sidebar at the bottom of the page for more about RNA and different types of cells).
DNA was known to be a long polymer composed of only four types of subunits, which resemble one another chemically. Early in the 1950s, DNA was first examined by x-ray diffraction analysis, a technique for determining the three-dimensional atomic structure of a molecule (discussed in Chapter 8).
Nucleotides that form the strands of the DNA structure are complex molecules which consist of both a phosphate moiety and a nucleobase (adenine, guanine, cytosine or thymine) joined to a five-carbon sugar (deoxyribose). In RNA, the five-carbon sugar ribose replaces deoxyribose.