Whether you're skipping rope or just plain hop-skipping -- the kind you did as a kid -- it's a cardio exercise. It can help you build cardiovascular fitness, tone muscles and burn calories, which can help you shed pounds.
Jumping rope is an easy, relatively inexpensive way to target a wide range of muscle groups. While jumping rope, both the upper and lower body are engaged. It is an activity that not only boosts cardiovascular health, but also can affect bone strength, agility, coordination and overall endurance.
Cardiac. In addition to working the muscles of your upper and lower body, jumping rope also exercises your cardiovascular system. Jumping rope is a cardio-heavy activity, allowing your heart to receive just as much of a workout as if you were running or doing aerobics.
Your arms, legs and core all sustain activity and muscle use as you jump rope, giving you a more efficient workout than running on a treadmill or walking through the park. Best of all, the lack of expense--jump ropes only cost a few dollars--makes it affordable.
Skipping exercises the muscles in the thigh, particularly the quads muscles: biceps femoris, vastus latoralis and semimembranous; It also helps the following muscles in the … calf: gastrocnemius, soleus and the tibialis anterior; and the hip flexor muscles. It is also excellent for building cardiac reserve as well.
In muscle-building circles, the jump rope is almost as unpopular as the pull-up bar and for about the same reason—because you can look like a total tool if you never do it. That's too bad because the jump rope, like the pull-up, offers a host of benefits that people have chosen to ignore for fear of looking stupid.
But other muscles in your legs, including your quadriceps and hamstrings, will also reap the benefits of a jump rope workout. Additionally, jumping rope works your glutes, helping you develop a more defined posterior.
Confidence votes 4.9K. Skipping exercises the muscles in the thigh, particularly the quads muscles: biceps femoris, vastus latoralis and semimembranous; It also helps the following muscles in the calf: gastrocnemius, soleus and the tibialis anterior; and the hip flexor muscles.
Upper Body Muscles. The upper body also gets worked out when you jump rope. When you swing the rope, muscles in both the shoulders and the arms are called into action, along with the wrists and hands. Back and chest muscles are also engaged, especially in jumping variations in which the arms cross over the body.