The definition of geographical conditions is a term that is used to  describe the geography of an area. This could be used to describe  the geography of a state, for example … the geographical condition  could be mountainous. 6 people found this useful. Sim Orleans. 3 Contributions. Site refers to the internal characteristics of a place (house, city, country, state) that describe where it is. Examples: coastal plain, mountain top, river delta.   … Situation refers to the external characteristics (what is nearby) that make that location attractive.
The term location generally implies a higher degree of certainty than place, which often indicates an entity with an ambiguous boundary, relying more on human/social attributes of place identity and sense of place than on geometry. An absolute location is designated using a specific pairing of latitude and longitude in a Cartesian coordinate grid — for example, a Spherical coordinate system or an ellipsoid-based system such as the World Geodetic System — or similar methods.
Full Definition of GEOGRAPHY. 1. : a science that deals with the description, distribution, and interaction of the diverse physical, biological, and cultural features of the earth's surface. 2. : the geographic features of an area. 3. : a treatise on geography. 4. Definition of GEOGRAPHY for Kids. 1. : a science that deals with the location of living and nonliving things on earth and the way they affect one another. 2.
You can then pick a point in the drawing to define the coordinates for the location defined in Google Earth. Use the Geographic Location Dialog Box. You can manually enter the latitude, longitude, north direction, elevation, and up-direction values. You can also enter a city name or other known geographic entity in the Location Picker dialog box to insert the location. Latitude and longitude is defined either as Decimal Degrees or as Degree Minutes Second.
Geographic location refers to a position on the Earth. Your absolute geographic location is defined by two coordinates, longitude and latitude. These two coordinates can be used to give specific locations independent of an outside reference point. Relative location, on the other hand, defines a location in terms of another. For example, Lille is north of Paris. The coordinate system of geographic location is used to represent specific locations on the globe. Because longitude and latitude lines form a grid on the Earth, you can pinpoint precise locations with just two coordinates.
Absolute: A location can be absolute (specific) as in coordinates of a map using longitude and latitude. Relative: A location can be relative-examples: next door, nearby, a short drive, down the road a ways. Or, it can be in the same general location as another location-example: next to the post office.
Define the Geographic Location for a DWG File. You can insert geographic location information in the drawing by importing .kml files, or .kmz files; or location information from Google Earth; or by manually entering the location values. You can also enter a city name or other known geographic entity in the Location Picker dialog box to insert the location. Latitude and longitude is defined either as Decimal Degrees or as Degree Minutes Second.
The terms location and place in geography are used to identify a point or an area on the Earth 's surface or elsewhere. An absolute location is designated using a specific pairing of latitude and longitude in a Cartesian coordinate grid — for example, a Spherical coordinate system or an ellipsoid-based system such as the World Geodetic System — or similar methods.
The definition of geographical conditions is a term that is used to  describe the geography of an area. This could be used to describe  the geography of a state, for example … the geographical condition  could be mountainous. 6 people found this useful. Sim Orleans. 