The name Natasha is of Russian origin, and it means Born on Christmas Day . It's a name commonly given to girls. Natasha Richardson is an actress with the most prominent portion of her career being from 1968 to 2009. According to the 1984 U.S. Social Security Administration data, the name Natasha ranks #91 in popularity as a baby girl's name in Texas. Imagine that, 255 babies in Texas have the same name as you in 1984. Across the entire United States a total of 3,723 babies also bear the same first name during the same year.
Natalie is the French form of the Latin name Natalia, which means Christmas Day.” The Latin word “natalis” translates to ‘Natal Day, birthday’ (specifically Christ’s birthday, or Christmas day). In earlier times, these “Natalie” names were generally given to baby girls born on or around Christmas Day. Literary Characters of the Baby Name Natasha. Natasha (Michael and Natasha) Written by Rosemary Crawford, “Michael and Natasha” is both an astonishing love story and an illuminating look at the last glorious days of the Romanovs and the brutal revolution that ended their reign.
Origin of the name Natasha: A popular pet form of Natalia (natal day, Christmas). Natasha is also popularly bestowed as an independent given name. Personal experiences with the name Natasha: | Edit. *My name is Natasha. My father is the one who chose my name. Funny story, because he heard of the name while watching tv in the waiting room of the hospital. There was a Russian gymnast on named Natasha and he thought it was a pretty name. I use to hate my name as a kid because it was so different and no one had it
Natasha /nata-sha/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced na-TAH-shah. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Natasha is birthday. Russian pet form of Natalya. See also Noel. Actress Natasha Richardson. (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Natasha for girls. Natasha was first listed in 1960-1969 and reached its top rank of #75 in the U.S. during the years 1980-1989, and is presently at #644.
Comments and insights on the name Natasha: | Edit. Funny-my father also chose my name after seeing the film War and Peace. What also amuzing is that my father is Mexican and my mother Ukrainian. So, my name reflected my heritage (sort of). Personal experiences with the name Natasha: | Edit. *My name is Natasha. My father is the one who chose my name. Funny story, because he heard of the name while watching tv in the waiting room of the hospital. There was a Russian gymnast on named Natasha and he thought it was a pretty name. I use to hate my name as a kid because it was so different and no one had it
Natascha /nata-scha/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Latin origin, and the name Natascha means birthday. Natascha is an alternate spelling, with the suffix-cha, of Natasha (Latin): Russian pet variation of Natalya. Kreatif forms: Netascha, Nitascha. [ more ]. 
Natasha (Russian: ната́ша) is a name of Russian origin. The name is the diminutive form of Natalia, which in turn derives from the Latin Dies Natalies, meaning Natal Day or Birthday in reference to the traditional birth of Jesus.
Greek Meaning: The name Natasha is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Natasha is: Born at Christmas. Russian Meaning: The name Natasha is a Russian baby name. In Russian the meaning of the name Natasha is: Born at Christmas. American Meaning: The name Natasha is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Natasha is: Born at Christmas. Latin Meaning: The name Natasha is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Natasha is: Bom at Christmas.
The name Natasha (Russian) means Christmans Day or birthday. It is usually used to portray desirable and enviable female characters in film, literature, etc. Most Natasha's are beautiful. They exude mystery and seduction. 