A professional learning community, or PLC, is a group of educators that meets regularly, shares expertise, and works collaboratively to improve teaching skills and the academic performance of students. 
A Programmable Logic Controller, or PLC for short, is simply a special computer device used for industrial control systems. They are used in many industries such as oil refineries, manufacturing lines, conveyor systems and so on. Since the late 1960's, the Programmable Logic Controller (or PLC) has become an essential aspect of any automated manufacturing process. In recent times there have been contenders to replace the PLC but the priniciples and popularity of those early PLC's functions and concepts have continued unabated.
We include PLC programming training and examples so the PLC Trainer can be used for self PLC programming training too. Higher education equals higher pay, so we make these very affordable. Same discounted price for individuals that we sell the PLC Training Equipment to Schools, Corporations and Government for. 
A programmable logic controller, PLC, or programmable controller is a digital computer used for automation of typically industrial electromechanical processes, such as control of machinery on factory assembly lines, amusement rides, or light fixtures. PLCs are used in many machines, in many industries. PLCs may include logic for single-variable feedback analog control loop, a proportional, integral, derivative (PID) controller. A PID loop could be used to control the temperature of a manufacturing process, for example.
Programs to control machine operation are typically stored in battery-backed-up or non-volatile memory. A PLC is an example of a hard real-time system since output results must be produced in response to input conditions within a limited time, otherwise unintended operation will result. PLCs may include logic for single-variable feedback analog control loop, a proportional, integral, derivative (PID) controller. A PID loop could be used to control the temperature of a manufacturing process, for example.
A PLC is primarily used to control machinery. Programs written for PLCs consists in simple terms on instructions to turn on and off outputs based on input conditions and the internal program. In this aspect, it is similar to a computer. A Programmable Logic Controller, or PLC, is more or less a small computer with a built-in operating system (OS). This OS is highly specialized to handle incoming events in real time, i.e., at the time of their occurrence.
PLC Outputs are the control circuits of the PLC and also refers to the devices controlled by the PLC. Be aware when talking about PLCs the devices like motors and lights are also referred to as PLC Outputs. Devices called actuators convert the electrical signal of the PLC to a physical movement for instance a valve solenoid stoke or a motor contactor. With regards to the variable output, the I/P (current to pneumatic) actuator, is an example.
INPUTS AND OUTPUTS. Inputs to, and outputs from, a PLC are necessary to monitor and control a process. Both inputs and outputs can be categorized into two basic types: logical or continuous. Consider the example of a light bulb. If it can only be turned on or off, it is logical control. We can also use relay outputs to switch the outputs. The example shown in Figure 2.5 An Example of a 24Vdc Output Card (Sinking) and Figure 2.6 An Example of a 24Vdc Output Card With a Voltage Input (Sourcing) is repeated yet again in Figure 2.7 An Example of a Relay Output Card for relay output.
Special-purpose I/O modules may be used where the scan time of the PLC is too long to allow predictable performance. Precision timing modules, or counter modules for use with shaft encoders, are used where the scan time would be too long to reliably count pulses or detect the sense of rotation of an encoder. PLCs may include logic for single-variable feedback analog control loop, a proportional, integral, derivative (PID) controller. A PID loop could be used to control the temperature of a manufacturing process, for example.