Inflammation and Overweight Overweight, inflammation, and food allergies are intimately related. Inflammation causes our master weight control hormone, leptin, to be less effective, thus causing weight gain, and both food allergies and overweight cause inflammation. Some people with food allergies are thin because their allergies affect their digestive system and impact their nutrition. Sometimes inflammation is obvious – it causes redness, warmth, and/or pain. However, chronic inflammation can be silent. If you are overweight, you may not know it, but you are experiencing silent inflammation. As we gain weight, our bodies do not add more fat cells.
The fat effect: Prednisone, often used to treat rheumatoid arthritis and chronic inflammation, can make you feel ravenously hungry. What to do: Your doctor may be able to give you prescription-strength NSAIDs (nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, such as ibuprofen) to help. What to do: See a psychiatrist instead of a family physician or internist and ask about antidepressants that dont typically cause weight gain, such as Wellbutrin or Zyban. Birth control pills. The fat effect: Birth control pills may add up to five pounds because the estrogen in them can cause you to retain water.
One of the primary causes of long-term weight gain is inflammation. If you want to get beyond cycling weight loss and weight gain, you have to understand inflammation and how inflammation promotes weight gain and prevents weight loss. How Inflammation Makes you Fat: Here is how inflammation makes you fat
Anti-inflammatory steroid medications like prednisone are notorious for causing weight gain. Fluid retention and increased appetite are the main reasons. Some people may also see a temporary change in where their body holds fat while taking steroids -- to places like the face, the belly, or the back of the neck. Rule 2: If You Do Gain Weight ... Don't compare yourself to other people taking the same drug. Not all people experience the same side effects on the same drug. Even if a drug caused someone else to lose weight, the same might not be true for you.
Remember that if the weight gain is just from water retention, it's not permanent weight or fat. Once you're done taking the drug or your condition is under control, the puffiness from fluid retention may ease. Stick to a lower-sodium diet in the meantime. Rule 2: If You Do Gain Weight ... Don't compare yourself to other people taking the same drug. Not all people experience the same side effects on the same drug. Even if a drug caused someone else to lose weight, the same might not be true for you.
If your thyroid (the butterfly-shaped gland in the front of your neck) is not making enough thyroid hormone, you're probably feeling tired, weak, and cold, and gaining weight. Without enough thyroid hormone, your metabolism slows, making weight gain more likely. Rule 2: If You Do Gain Weight ... Don't compare yourself to other people taking the same drug. Not all people experience the same side effects on the same drug. Even if a drug caused someone else to lose weight, the same might not be true for you.
Side effects can occur during treatment with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs; however, weight gain does not appear to be common. However, because this was so uncommon, it was not possible to tell whether the weight gain was due to the NSAID, other factors, or a combination of both. One important thing to keep in mind regarding NSAIDs and weight gain is that all NSAIDs may cause congestive heart failure. One of the main symptoms of heart failure is unexplained weight gai
In summary, if you want weight loss to not be this thing you do about every 18 months, you have to deal with weight gain cause by inflammation. The role of inflammation in weight gain and weight loss is simply too powerful to be overlooked. It is foundational to long term weight management and good health. If you want to get beyond cycling weight loss and weight gain, you have to understand inflammation and how inflammation promotes weight gain and prevents weight loss.
There are two issues at work with sleep and weight gain. First, if you're up late, the odds are greater that you're doing some late-night snacking, which means more calories. The other reason involves what's going on in your body when you're sleep-deprived. Rule 2: If You Do Gain Weight ... Don't compare yourself to other people taking the same drug. Not all people experience the same side effects on the same drug. Even if a drug caused someone else to lose weight, the same might not be true for you.