In terms of the progression of HIV to AIDS, the HIV incubation period can vary extensively based on genes, general health, and treatment. In the early days of study on the disease, when treatments were quite basic, the incubation period could last only months.
The human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is the virus that causes AIDS (acquired immunodeficiency syndrome). HIV is transmitted in blood, semen, vaginal fluids and breast milk. HIV attacks the body's immune system and makes it harder for someone to fight off infections.
On average, the HIV incubation period in adults is estimated at between one and six months. This estimate is wide, since not all people get tested around the time of symptom appearance, if at all. Symptoms generally manifest as a cold, flu, or general “under the weather” feeling.
HIV is a virus spread through body fluids that affects specific cells of the immune system, called CD4 cells, or T cells. Over time, HIV can destroy so many of these cells that the body can’t fight off infections and disease. When this happens, HIV infection leads to AIDS.
How HIV is spread. HIV is spread when blood, semen, or vaginal fluids from an infected person enter another person's body, usually through: 1  Sexual contact. 2  The virus may enter the body through a tear in the lining of the rectum, vagina, urethra, or mouth.
There's a period of time after a person is infected during which they won't test positive. This is called the “hiv window period.”. The window period can be from 9 days to 3-6 months, depending on the person's body and on the HIV-test that's used. During that time, you can test HIV negative even though you're HIV infected. You can still catch HIV from someone who is in the
Chlamydia The incubation period for Chlamydia is usually 2 to 6 weeks, but can be longer. Syphilis The incubation period for Syphilis is usually 10 to 90 days. HIV The window period for HIV is usually 2 weeks to 3 months, but could be up to 6 months. Hepatitis A The incubation period for Hepatitis A is 15 to 50 days. Hepatitis B The incubation period for Hepatitis B is usually 45-180 days, with an average of 60 to 90 days. Read More.