Money Quiz The British currency is the pound sterling. The sign for the pound is GBP = Great British Pound We do not use the Euro. Although a few of the big shops will accept Euro, it is rarely used across Britain. Since decimalisation in 1971, the pound has been divided into 100 pence. 
The UK unit of currency is the pound sterling (£). In London we often call one pound (£1) a quid and sometimes a nicker. A lot of European countries have changed their currency to the Euro, but the UK has not yet joined. There is a lot of speculation about if and when we ever will join, but that's another story.
Money Quiz The British currency is the pound sterling. The sign for the pound is GBP = Great British Pound We do not use the Euro. Although a few of the big shops will accept Euro, it is rarely used across Britain. Since decimalisation in 1971, the pound has been divided into 100 pence. The singular of pence is  penny . The symbol for the penny is  p ; hence an amount such as 50p is often pronounced fifty pee rather than fifty pence. We have both coins and banknotes. Current coins are : 1 penny, 2 pence, 5 pence, 10 pence, 20 pence, 50 pence, 1 pound, and 2 pounds.
The Euro. The euro is the official currency of the European Union and is commonly used through much of Europe. While it is not an official currency in London, the city's status as both a financial center and a tourism center means that you will find places where it is accepted. If you have euro left over from traveling in the continent, you can either try to spend it or exchange it at a bank.
Hanger Lane in West London is a strategic hub for travellers. Ten miles from Heathrow and six miles from central London Traditional, welcoming and great value for money.The Hotel is only 2 miles from Wembley Stadium which is due to open May 2006. London House Hotel is one of the most popular budget hotels in Central London. 5 terraced build 87 rooms and located just 2-4 minutes from Bayswater/Queensway, the hotel is superb
The pound sterling, or just pound, is the basic unit of currency in England, as the dollar is in America. Pennies are referred to by the plural term pence, but the conversion is the same: 100 pence makes one pound. Currency in England leans more toward coins than bills, as there are 1-, 2- and even 5-pound coins. While it is not an official currency in London, the city's status as both a financial center and a tourism center means that you will find places where it is accepted. If you have euro left over from traveling in the continent, you can either try to spend it or exchange it at a bank.
The pound is generally a stable currency. You can find the current exchange rates at www.postoffice.co.uk. There are numerous bureaux de change in London – often located inside banks, travel agents or Post Offices, as well as at London's airports and major train stations. You will usually hear British people say pee rather than pence, as in 50p (50 pee). More colloquially, a pound is known as a quid, a five pound note is a fiver and a ten pound note a tenner.
In the City of London the banks are open 9.30-15.00 Monday-Friday,closed on Saturday and Sunday.The City of London is approximately the areas near Bank, Liverpool Street, Monument, Cannon Street, Mansion House, St. Paul's and Moorgate underground train stations. London House Hotel is one of the most popular budget hotels in Central London. 5 terraced build 87 rooms and located just 2-4 minutes from Bayswater/Queensway, the hotel is superb value for money.
The UK's currency is the pound sterling (£ / GBP). Despite being a member of the European Union, the UK has not adopted the euro. There are 100 pence (p) to the pound (£). Notes come in denominations of £5, £10, £20 and £50. Coins come in 1p, 2p, 5p, 10p, 20p, 50p, £1 and £2. You will usually hear British people say pee rather than pence, as in 50p (50 pee). More colloquially, a pound is known as a quid, a five pound note is a fiver and a ten pound note a tenner.
ATMs are available in many parts of London-ensure you inform your bank before travelling abroad, and be aware you may be charged for cash withdrawals. It is advisable to exchange some cash before arriving in London. London House Hotel is one of the most popular budget hotels in Central London. 5 terraced build 87 rooms and located just 2-4 minutes from Bayswater/Queensway, the hotel is superb value for money.