It is available as a prescription drug and as an over-the-counter product. Prescription Zantac comes in the following forms and strengths: 1  Zantac 150 mg tablets. 2  Zantac 300 mg tablets. 3  Zantac 25 mg EFFERdose ® tablets. 4  Zantac 150 mg EFFERdose tablets. 5  Zantac syrup 15 mg per mL (75 mg per teaspoonful). The recommended dosage for the treatment of stomach ulcers is 150 mg twice a day. The usual dose for treating erosive esophagitis is Zantac 150 mg four times a day. Once healed, the dose for preventing the ulcer from returning is typically 150 mg twice daily.
For treating a duodenal ulcer, healthcare providers often recommend either Zantac 150 mg tablets (one tablet, twice daily) or Zantac 300 mg tablets (one tablet, once daily). The recommended dosage for the treatment of stomach ulcers is 150 mg twice a day. The usual dose for treating erosive esophagitis is Zantac 150 mg four times a day. Once healed, the dose for preventing the ulcer from returning is typically 150 mg twice daily. For the treatment of GERD or pathological hypersecretory conditions, the usual recommended dosage is Zantac 150 mg twice daily
Ranitidine hydrochloride (Zantac ®) is a medication that is available as both a prescription medication and an over-the-counter medication. It is used to treat several conditions related to the esophagus, stomach, and intestines. Ranitidine is part of a class of drugs known as H2 blockers. 1 Duodenal ulcers (ulcers in the first part of the intestine after the stomach) -- Ranitidine can be used to treat a duodenal ulcer and also to prevent ulcers from coming back.
Zantac 150: An Overview. Zantac ® (ranitidine hydrochloride) is a medication that is available both as a prescription medication and an over-the-counter medication. It is used to treat several conditions related to the esophagus, stomach, and intestines. Zantac 150 mg is a strength of Zantac available with a prescription. This strength is also available over-the-counter. 
Ranitidine HCl is a white to pale yellow, granular substance that is soluble in water. It has a slightly bitter taste and sulfurlike odor. Each ZANTAC (ranitidine hcl) 150 Tablet for oral administration contains 168 mg of ranitidine HCl equivalent to 150 mg of ranitidine. Stop taking ranitidine and call your doctor at once if you have a serious side effect such as: 1  chest pain, fever, feeling short of breath, coughing up green or yellow mucus; 2  easy bruising or bleeding, unusual weakness; 3  fast or slow heart rate; 4  problems with your vision; 5  fever, sore throat, and headache with a severe blistering, peeling, and red ..
DRUG DESCRIPTION. The active ingredient in ZANTAC (ranitidine hcl) 150 Tablets, ZANTAC (ranitidine hcl) 300 Tablets, ZANTAC (ranitidine hcl) 25 EFFERdose Tablets, and ZANTAC Syrup is ranitidine hydrochloride (HCl), USP, a histamine H 2 -receptor antagonist. Stop taking ranitidine and call your doctor at once if you have a serious side effect such as: 1  chest pain, fever, feeling short of breath, coughing up green or yellow mucus; 2  easy bruising or bleeding, unusual weakness; 3  fast or slow heart rate; 4  problems with your vision; 5  fever, sore throat, and headache with a severe blistering, peeling, and red ..
RANITIDINE is a type of antihistamine that blocks the release of stomach acid. It is used to treat stomach or intestinal ulcers. It can relieve ulcer pain and discomfort, and the heartburn from acid reflux. Compare Similar Drugs. 
Uses of prescription-strength ranitidine include the treatment of: 1  Duodenal ulcers (ulcers in the first part of the intestine after the stomach) -- Ranitidine can be used to treat a duodenal ulcer and also to prevent ulcers from coming back. 1
I was taking 40 mg Prilosec and 150 mg Zantac in AM, and 40 mg Prilosec and 300 mg Zantac at dinner. The odd thing about this is the Zantac seemed to be the same, no matter how it was purchased (tried 75 x 2 and 75 X 4) with both seeming to have the same effect as the RX version. Whole different story with the Prilosec. zantac and prilosec OTC. As for zantac, my father in law has been taking the prescription zantac for a long time. He claims that when he runs out and buys the over the counter version, they don't work good at all.