Water is one of the world's most important resources, and we can all do our part to stop it from getting polluted. Simple changes like using natural cleaning products instead of toxic ones in your home and planting more trees and flowers in your yard can make an important impact. Help clean up litter in water-filled areas. If you live near a local body of water, there's a lot you can do to help reduce pollution there. See if there's a group working to clean up local beaches, lakes, rivers or oceans.
Prevention of water pollution. Dealing with water pollution is something that everyone (including governments and local councils) needs to get involved with. Here are a few things you can do to help. Learning about the issue (like you are doing) is the greatest and most important step to take. Here are a few more: If we all do this, we can significantly prevent water shortages and reduce the amount of dirty water that needs treatment. Do not throw chemicals, oils, paints and medicines down the sink drain, or the toilet. In many cities, your local environment office can help with the disposal of medicines and chemicals.
Use the minimum amount of detergent and/or bleach when you are washing clothes or dishes. Use only phosphate free soaps and detergents. 1  Minimize the use of pesticides, herbicides, fertilizers. 2  DO NOT dispose of these chemicals, motor oil, or other automotive fluids into the sanitary sewer or storm sewer systems. DO NOT dispose of household chemicals or cleaning agents down the sink or toilet. Simsbury has a Hazardous Waste Collection day usually from 8:00 a.m to 1:00 p.m. at Henry James School. Connecticut Resource Recovery Authority lists all collection dates.
Thereare many things that we can do on a dailybasis to prevent water pollution.1. Never dump anything that you wouldn't want to drink or swim in onto the street,down a storm drain or into a drainage ditch 2. 
What you can do to reduce water pollution. Waterways can easily be polluted through the way we all approach some common behaviors — applying fertilizers and pesticides, clearing grass clippings from yards, driveways and sidewalks; driving vehicles; flushing toilets; washing laundry and chemical disposal. 
Get involved at school and work. You can take the same actions at work or school that you'd take at home to reduce water pollution. Look into the policies at your workplace or school and find out if there are changes you could help to facilitate to create a pollution-free environment. Help clean up litter in water-filled areas. If you live near a local body of water, there's a lot you can do to help reduce pollution there. See if there's a group working to clean up local beaches, lakes, rivers or oceans.
If you want to help keep our waters clean, there are many things you can do to help. You can prevent water pollution of nearby rivers and lakes as well as groundwater and drinking water by following some simple guidelines in your everyday life. 1  Conserve water by turning off the tap when running water is not necessary.
Factories are point sources of water pollution, but quite a lot of water is polluted by ordinary people from nonpoint sources; this is how ordinary water becomes waste water in the first place. Virtually everyone pours chemicals of one sort or another down their drains or toilets. Water resources like these are called surface waters. The most obvious type of water pollution affects surface waters. For example, a spill from an oil tanker creates an oil slick that can affect a vast area of the ocean. Not all of Earth's water sits on its surface, however.
Use water wisely. Do not keep the tap running when not in use. Also, you can reduce the amount of water you use in washing and bathing. If we all do this, we can significantly prevent water shortages and reduce the amount of dirty water that needs treatment. Do not throw chemicals, oils, paints and medicines down the sink drain, or the toilet. In many cities, your local environment office can help with the disposal of medicines and chemicals.
Recycle everything that you can. Almost everything that you buy can be recycled. Try to avoid products that do not have a recycle symbol on the package or that are made of mixed materials that may not be easy to recycle. 1  Check to see if your waste management company offers recycling pick up services. Conserve water. It's important to take good care of the water we do have and conserve it as much as possible. Wasting water uses up a valuable resource and has a big effect on the environment. It's easy to take measures in your daily life that help you use less water and preserve the health of your region's ecosystems.