Hi All, I would like to know the road condition from Delhi Rudrapur-Ranikhet-Dwarahat-Kausani trip on my Chevrolet Beat. My Trip itinerary is as follows: 19 April From Office (Gurgaon) to Rudrapur starting at 1 pm.
Ranikhet is well connected with nearby cities like Nainital (54 km), Almora (49 km) and Bareily (181 km). Tourist and State owned bus services are available from Delhi to Ranikhet, covering the distance of 350 km.
You can check the information about New Delhi to Rudrapur train. New Delhi (Delhi) to Rudrapur (Uttarakhand) trains available on ixigo.com with fares starting from 97 and shortest train journey duration from 3 hours and 53 minutes. Find the complete information about the schedules of Trains like Utr Sampark Kranti Express.
Rudrapur is well connected to Kashipur, , Nainital, Moradabad, Bareilly, Dehradun, Lucknow and Delhi by rail network. Rudrapur is well connected by road with all the major cities of the state and region. Delhi is at a distance of 234 km whereas the distance from Rudrapur to Nainital is just 72 km away. The place is a junction of roads heading in four directions.
Pantnagar airport is connected to Delhi by daily flights. Delhi is the nearest International airport, which is 350 km away from Ranikhet. Delhi airport is well connected with major cities within the country and abroad.
The fastest way to reach Ranikhet from Dehradun takes you 7h 30m, which is to take State Transport Bus from Dehradun to Ranikhet.The cheapest way to reach Ranikhet from Dehradun takes you 13h 12m, which is to take Ddn Kgm Express from Dehradun to Kathgodam then take State Transport Bus from Kathgodam
No direct flights or trains are available between Dehradun to Ranikhet but there is/are nearly 1 direct bus(es) plying between Dehradun to Ranikhet.These bus(es) is/are State Transport Bus etc. The minimum time a bus takes to reach Ranikhet from Dehradun is 7h 30m.
Distance between Ranikhet to Rudrapur City is 106 km by Road along with an aerial distance of 74 km.