Sherbet, sorbet or frozen fruit pops. Soups made with higher phosphorus ingredients (milk, dried peas, beans, lentils). Soups made with lower phosphorus ingredients (broth-or water-based with other lower phosphorus ingredients). Whole grains, including whole-grain breads, crackers, cereal, rice and pasta. Many healthy adults eat almost double this amount. Whether you have early-stage kidney disease or you're on dialysis, you'll likely be advised to limit your phosphorus intake. Nearly every food contains some phosphorus. A registered dietitian can help you choose foods that are lower in
Below is a partial listing of foods lower in phosphorus to help you identify substitutes for higher phosphorus foods. Although a food or drink may be low in phosphorus, you still need to watch portion sizes and limit the number of servings you eat or drink each day. Many healthy adults eat almost double this amount. Whether you have early-stage kidney disease or you're on dialysis, you'll likely be advised to limit your phosphorus intake. Nearly every food contains some phosphorus. A registered dietitian can help you choose foods that are lower in
Because unhealthy kidneys are no longer able to remove phosphorus from the blood and get rid of the excess in urine, high levels of phosphorus (hyperphosphatemia) is a problem for people with stage 4 and 5 kidney disease, especially stage 5 (also known as end stage renal disease or ESRD). 
High-protein foods are richest in phosphorus. Phosphorus is a mineral that helps build strong bones and teeth. It assists in the conversion of food into energy and plays a role in metabolism. Phosphorus is found in foods such as high-protein meats and dairy, colas, whole grains and chocolate. According to the Linus Paul Institute, 700 milligrams of phosphorus is recommended per day for adults. Dairy. Dairy products are the best source of phosphorus. A 1-cup serving of milk has 247 milligrams of phosphorus. Eight ounces of plain yogurt contain 385 milligrams, which is over 50 percent of the daily recommended amount. Also, a 1-ounce serving of part-skim mozzarella cheese contains 131
Dairy products are the best source of phosphorus. A 1-cup serving of milk has 247 milligrams of phosphorus. Eight ounces of plain yogurt contain 385 milligrams, which is over 50 percent of the daily recommended amount. Dairy. Dairy products are the best source of phosphorus. A 1-cup serving of milk has 247 milligrams of phosphorus. Eight ounces of plain yogurt contain 385 milligrams, which is over 50 percent of the daily recommended amount. Also, a 1-ounce serving of part-skim mozzarella cheese contains 131
Calcium and phosphorus, which are minerals, help build strong bones. Healthy kidneys help regulate the level of phosphorus in your blood by removing extra phosphorus. If your kidneys aren't working properly, eventually you may have high phosphorus levels in your blood (hyperphosphatemia). Many healthy adults eat almost double this amount. Whether you have early-stage kidney disease or you're on dialysis, you'll likely be advised to limit your phosphorus intake. Nearly every food contains some phosphorus. A registered dietitian can help you choose foods that are lower in
Choose low-phosphorus foods. The best way to limit phosphorus in your diet is to limit foods highest in phosphorus, including: 1  Fast food, convenience foods and processed foods, which may be full of phosphorus additives. 2  Beverages that contain phosphorus (look for the letters phos in the ingredient list). Many healthy adults eat almost double this amount. Whether you have early-stage kidney disease or you're on dialysis, you'll likely be advised to limit your phosphorus intake. Nearly every food contains some phosphorus. A registered dietitian can help you choose foods that are lower in
Foods Rich in Phosphorus. Here are some of the best options for getting a lot of phosphorus into your diet. 1  Whole Wheat and Bran Mixes-Any combination of bran flakes, whole wheat baked goods, or similar items gets a large amount of phosphorus into your daily diet, along with fiber and other nutritional benefits. 1 Peanut Butter-Along with a large amount of protein, peanut butter is also a phosphorus rich food. 2  Nutritional experts recommend organic, natural peanut butter over sweetened, fat saturated varieties. 3  Corn-This popular plant in its many varieties also carries phosphorus to the body
Those with specific concerns about getting the right vitamins and minerals might want to look at foods that deliver the key mineral known as phosphorus. Although many foods contain phosphorus, some are richer in this dietary element than others. 1 Peanut Butter-Along with a large amount of protein, peanut butter is also a phosphorus rich food. 2  Nutritional experts recommend organic, natural peanut butter over sweetened, fat saturated varieties. 3  Corn-This popular plant in its many varieties also carries phosphorus to the body