F lag or Add a Reminder When Creating a Message. To add a flag or a reminder (or both) when you're creating a message, start by clicking Follow Up in the Tags group (Outlook 2010) or the Options group (Outlook 2007) of a new email message. Outlook 2010 or 2007 (Message is closed). 1  In the message list, right-click the flag column and choose Add Reminder. 2  Note: Unless you have changed the default flag, it has both a start date and due date of today.
The default text is Follow Up. In a new message, on the Message tab, in the Tags group, click Follow Up. On the Follow Up menu, click Flag for Recipients. In the Flag to list, select an action, or type your own text. What you select or type here appears in the InfoBar in the message that the recipient receives. Do one of the following: In an open contact, on the Contact tab, in the Tags group, click Follow Up, and then click a flag. In Contacts, click on the contact you want to flag. Then, on the Home tab, in the Tags group, click Follow Up, and then click a flag. Tip You can also assign a flag to a message with one click.
Flag Received Messages. You can flag an email message you receive to remind yourself to follow-up or take action at a later time. Your flagged message will appear in the To-Do Bar, in Tasks, and in the Daily Task List in Calendar. You can also click your Search Folder – For Follow Up to find the messages you’ve flagged. Outlook 2010 or 2007 (Message is closed). 1  In the message list, right-click the flag column and choose Add Reminder. 2  Note: Unless you have changed the default flag, it has both a start date and due date of today.
Instructions. Start Microsoft Outlook 2007. Click to select the message that you want to flag. Choose the Actions menu from Outlook, point to Follow Up and click on Custom to open the Custom dialog box. Select the reason you want to apply a flag from the Flag to drop-down menu
When you send an email you can set a Follow-Up Flag to remind you about the email. How to set a Follow-Up Flag on a New Email. How to set a Follow-Up Flag in Your Inbox. How to set a Follow-Up Flag on a Contact Card. How to set a Follow-Up Flag for a Recipient. 1  Open a new email. 2  Type up your email as you normally would. 3  Before sending, select the Follow Up option, located in the Options section of the Message tab
To flag email in Outlook Web App, right-click the item and choose “Flag” from the list. This will add a small red flag icon to the item displayed in the Inbox pane. You can also “Flag” a message by hovering over the top right corner of the item in the Inbox pane and clicking the flag icon. Flag Email in Outlook Web App: Instructions. 1  To flag an item for follow up, right-click the item and choose “Flag.”. 2  Alternatively, hover over an item and click the greyed out flag that is displayed to a mark it as flagged. 3  A small red flag will display on the right side of the item.
To set a flag on an email you have received, simply choose from one of the following options: 1  Option 1 – Click on the Contact you wish to flag and left-click on the Flag icon in the toolbar. 2  From the menu that appears, set the flag by date or set up a custom flag. 3  Option 2 – Open the contact you wish to flag. How to set a Follow-Up Flag on a New Email. How to set a Follow-Up Flag in Your Inbox. How to set a Follow-Up Flag on a Contact Card. How to set a Follow-Up Flag for a Recipient. 1  Open a new email. 2  Type up your email as you normally would.