Called nam bplah in Thai, or literally fish water, genuine fish sauce is the water, or juice, in the flesh of fish that is extracted in the process of prolonged salting and fermentation. It is made from small fish that would otherwise have little value for consumption. This can either be freshwater or saltwater fish, though today, most fish sauce is made from the latter as pollution and dams have drastically reduced the once plentiful supply of freshwater fish in the heartlands of Southeast Asia.
(Credit: Warren via Flickr). Making sustainable seafood choices is about supporting solutions for healthier oceans. Choosing sustainable seafood is an easy and effective action that you can take every time you purchase seafood. Whether you are an individual shopper who shops for your family, a chef who offers seafood on your menu, or a supplier sourcing from fishing communities, your choices count. We use the following decision criteria, developed by Seafood Watch, which illustrate the qualities that wild capture fisheries or farmed fisheries must have to be considered sustainable by the David Suzuki Foundation and our partners in the SeaChoice program.
Other food sources of riboflavin are oysters, lean meat, green leafy vegetables, mushrooms, asparagus, broccoli, avocados, Brussels sprouts and salmon. Oily fish, such as mackerel, trout, eel, herring, and shad, have substantial levels of riboflavin, too. Nori seaweed is a fine source. Vitamin B3 (niacin) can be found in nuts, dairy products, lean meats, poultry, fish, and eggs. Vitamin A comes from animal sources such as eggs and meat. Vitamin A, in the form of retinyl palmitate, is found in beef, calf, chicken liver; eggs, and fish liver oils as well as dairy products including whole milk, whole milk yogurt, whole milk cottage cheese, butter, and cheese.
Healthy Diet. Fish is a low-fat high quality protein. Fish is filled with omega-3 fatty acids and vitamins such as D and B2 (riboflavin). Fish is rich in calcium and phosphorus and a great source of minerals, such as iron, zinc, iodine, magnesium, and potassium. The American Heart Association recommends eating fish at least two times per week as part of a healthy diet.
The harvesting of wild seafood is usually known as fishing or hunting, and the cultivation and farming of seafood is known as aquaculture, or fish farming in the case of fish. Seafood is often distinguished from meat, although it is still animal and is excluded in a strict vegetarian diet. Some seafood is feed to aquarium fish, or used to feed domestic pets, such as cats, and a small proportion is used in medicine, or is used industrially for non-food purposes (leather).
Seafood is an important source of protein in many diets around the world, especially in coastal areas. Most of the seafood harvest is consumed by humans, but a significant proportion is used as fish food to farm other fish or rear farm animal. Some seafoods (kelp) are used as food for other plants (fertilizer). Some seafood is feed to aquarium fish, or used to feed domestic pets, such as cats, and a small proportion is used in medicine, or is used industrially for non-food purposes (leather).
A fish is any member of a paraphyletic group of organisms that consist of all gill-bearing aquatic craniate animals that lack limbs with digits. Included in this definition are the living hagfish, lampreys, and cartilaginous and bony fish, as well as various extinct related groups. Because the term fish is defined negatively, and excludes the tetrapods (i.e., the amphibians, reptiles, birds and mammals) which descend from within the same ancestry, it is paraphyletic, and is not considered a proper grouping in systematic biology.
Q. I have a 30-gallon (114- liter) aquarium that houses three fancy goldfish and one Siamese fighting fish. The aquarium has been set up for a little over two years. The pH is 6.1, which I know is a low reading. I have read that this can be harmful to the fish and the biological (undergravel) filter in my aquarium. A. The pH of your aquarium is right at the lower survival boundary for both the goldfish and the betta. As you say, it also inhibits the proper functioning of your undergravel biological filter. Although the fish have evidently adapted to the low pH, this is not a healthy situation.
We define sustainable seafood as seafood fished or farmed in a manner that can maintain or increase production in the long term, without jeopardizing the health or function of the web of life in our oceans. We use the following decision criteria, developed by Seafood Watch, which illustrate the qualities that wild capture fisheries or farmed fisheries must have to be considered sustainable by the David Suzuki Foundation and our partners in the SeaChoice program.