Diabetes is by far the most common cause of neuropathy in feet, and it can lead to severe complications in the feet and legs. Diabetic peripheral neuropathy happens when the nerve fibers in diabetic patients are damaged. Peripheral neuropathy is a condition in which the peripheral nerves or the nerves in the extremities are damaged. This condition is a progressive disease that may come and go or may become severe and debilitating. The peripheral nervous system consists of motor nerves and sensory nerves.
Peripheral neuropathy. Peripheral neuropathy is the most common form of diabetic neuropathy. Your feet and legs are often affected first, followed by your hands and arms. Signs and symptoms of peripheral neuropathy are often worse at night, and may include: 1  Numbness or reduced ability to feel pain or temperature changes. Radiculoplexus neuropathy (diabetic amyotrophy). Radiculoplexus neuropathy affects nerves in the thighs, hips, buttocks or legs. Also called diabetic amyotrophy, femoral neuropathy or proximal neuropathy, this condition is more common in people with type 2 diabetes and older adults.
Most patients suffering from diabetes complain of swelling in the feet and legs. The main reason for this problem is improper blood circulation due to damaged blood capillaries as a result of increased pressure. But you should consult your doctor prior to beginning any exercise program.’ Do not practice rigorous exercises as it can lead to exercise-induced oedema. 2. Elevate your legs: Elevation of feet (above the heart level) using a support or a pillow for 10-15 minutes every day can help to reduce swelling.
(Neuropathy means nerve disease or damage.) Symptoms can range from numbness or tingling, to pricking sensations (paresthesia), or muscle weakness. Areas of the body may become abnormally sensitive leading to an exaggeratedly intense or distorted experience of touch (allodynia). In many cases, however, a specific cause cannot be identified. Doctors usually refer to neuropathies with no known cause as idiopathic. Causes of acquired peripheral neuropathy include: Physical injury (trauma) is the most common cause of acquired nerve injury.
This is neuropathy. There are several types of neuropathy. Peripheral neuropathy is a condition in which the peripheral nerves or the nerves in the extremities are damaged. This condition is a progressive disease that may come and go or may become severe and debilitating. The peripheral nervous system consists of motor nerves and sensory nerves.
Leg swelling caused by the retention of fluid in leg tissues is known as peripheral edema. It can be caused by a problem with the circulatory system, the lymphatic system or the kidneys. You may also experience swelling due to fluid buildup after sitting or standing for a long time. Leg swelling can also be caused by inflammation in leg tissues. Inflammation may be a normal response to injury or disease, or it may be due to rheumatoid arthritis or another inflammatory disorder. You will usually feel some pain with inflammation. Factors that can contribute to inflammation in the leg include:
Motor nerve damage is most commonly associated with muscle weakness. Other symptoms may include painful cramps and fasciculations (uncontrolled muscle twitching visible under the skin), muscle atrophy (severe shrinkage of muscle size), and decreased reflexes. In many cases, however, a specific cause cannot be identified. Doctors usually refer to neuropathies with no known cause as idiopathic. Causes of acquired peripheral neuropathy include: Physical injury (trauma) is the most common cause of acquired nerve injury.
If you are diabetic and have noticed some leg swelling recently, the following could be a few reasons for it. 1  The main reason for leg swelling in diabetes is peripheral edema. 2  Fluids collect in the feet, ankles and leg and this condition can become quite severe if left untreated. 1 Fluids collect in the feet, ankles and leg and this condition can become quite severe if left untreated. 2  A consultation with a doctor is a must. 3  Sometimes, a diabetic may suffer from diabetic neuropathy.
This causes peripheral edema in some cases and can be painful. If you see symptoms of swelling in your ankles, lower legs or feet, it is time to pay your physician an emergency visit. Diabetes expand blood circulation in an inappropriate way, which can cause swelling in the lower leg region. 1 Fluids collect in the feet, ankles and leg and this condition can become quite severe if left untreated. 2  A consultation with a doctor is a must. 3  Sometimes, a diabetic may suffer from diabetic neuropathy.
Also, you should avoid sitting with your legs crossed because it affects blood circulation to the extremities. Although swelling of feet and legs is a common symptom in diabetic patients, it can often lead to complications like infections due to injury, foot ulcers, gangrene and diabetic neuropathy. Therefore, all diabetics should make it a point to notify all physical changes they notice in themselves to their doctors. But you should consult your doctor prior to beginning any exercise program.’ Do not practice rigorous exercises as it can lead to exercise-induced oedema. 2. Elevate your legs: Elevation of feet (above the heart level) using a support or a pillow for 10-15 minutes every day can help to reduce swelling.