If you are unable to make your flight the airline you are flying with is obliged to return any tax and airport charges paid if you request them even if you have booked a non-refundable ticket. • 2 Comments. If you are unable to make your flight the airline you are flying with is obliged to return any tax and airport charges paid if you request them even if you have booked a non-refundable ticket. Most airlines will do this but also include an administration charge, some more than others.
L.H, Rugby. Flight trouble: Despite not being able to travel due to an illness, Ryanair will not refund our flights. Lee Boyce, of This is Money, replies: Ryanair is the marmite of the airline world; passengers either love it or hate it. I booked a flight with Ryanair to take my 90-year-old mum to Ireland. We should have been flying out on the August 19, however, she was taken poorly on the August 16 and seen by a doctor who advised us not to fly.
I bought a ticket from ryanair on a december flight of which I now know will not use due to change of plans. It says on the Ryanair website that they will refund the cost for taxes but not the actual price for the ticket. I want to have the tax monet back as the ticket costed like 1 GBP whereas the taxes were ten times as much. OP, where was the flight to and how much were you charged? If I know that I'll be able to tell you if you can get a refund. Does anyone else interpret this-Government tax refund requests must be made within one month from the booked travel date.
* Required. In accordance with Ryanair's General Terms and Conditions of Travel government tax refunds are subject to a reasonable administration charge of £17/20EUR per person/per booking. We will review your request and will be contact with you within 7 working days. Please attach the proof of death/serious illness of the customer travelling on the above flight reservation Please attach the proof of death of the immediate family member. To attach a document please select the file you wish to upload by clicking browse. Please ensure the document is legible
In accordance with Ryanair's General Terms and Conditions of Travel government tax refunds are subject to a reasonable administration charge of £17/20EUR per person/per booking. Please attach the proof of death/serious illness of the customer travelling on the above flight reservation Please attach the proof of death of the immediate family member. To attach a document please select the file you wish to upload by clicking browse. Please ensure the document is legible
If you get a refund from Ryanair in less than 100 e-mails and 9 months, you would get a gold medal in the Commonwealth Games! We can't change the flight to another date for a number of reasons, such as he won't be around and avaliable for a long time. I have nobody else to go to either. I've had a look online at the cancellation policies of the airlines (Easyjet outbound and Ryanair inbound) and both say they are non-refudnable airlines.
Travel Insurance Policy: Refund Request. Please complete the form below. Only ONE request per customer is permitted. Providing you meet the refund criteria * then your travel insurance refund request will be processed to the original form of payment within 7 working days of receipt of your request. *Travel insurance policies can only be refunded within 14 days of purchase
Thank you for your refund application. See below the details of your request: Once approved your refund request will be processed within 7 working days to the original form of payment and should show in your account within the next 5-7 working days. Please attach the proof of death/serious illness of the customer travelling on the above flight reservation Please attach the proof of death of the immediate family member. To attach a document please select the file you wish to upload by clicking browse. Please ensure the document is legible
Posts: 430. I believe it's near impossible to cancel a flight on Ryanair. I think the only way to do it is ring their 0871 number (check SAYNOTO0870.COM-Non-Geographical Alternative Telephone Numbers for a geographic number to save you the 10p a minute). Depending on the fare will depend if you get any refund on that part. 