1 Pulmonary hypertension is also common. 2  Diffuse cutaneous scleroderma (systemic sclerosis) - a rapidly progressing disease that affects a much larger area of the skin and at least one internal organ, often the kidneys, esophagus, heart and lungs. 3  Diffuse cutaneous scleroderma can be fatal. It is worse for diffuse cutaneous scleroderma, especially for elderly male patients. Pulmonary, heart and/or kidney complications are the most common causes of death. A symptom is something the patient feels and reports, while a sign is something other people, such as the doctor detect.
1 Scleroderma is a disease of the connective tissue featuring skin thickening that can involve scarring, blood vessel problems, varying degrees of inflammation, and is associated with an overactive immune system. 2  CREST syndrome is a limited form of systemic sclerosis. Scleroderma facts. 1  Scleroderma is a disease of the connective tissue featuring skin thickening that can involve scarring, blood vessel problems, varying degrees of inflammation, and is associated with an overactive immune system.
In this article. Scleroderma is a chronic skin disease, meaning it doesn’t go away. Your doctor can treat your symptoms and help you feel better, though. The problem is with your immune system, which causes your body to make too much of the protein collagen, an important part of your skin. Localized scleroderma mainly affects the skin. There are two kinds of localized scleroderma: 1  Morphea: This involves hard, oval-shaped patches on the skin. 2  They start out red or purple and then turn whitish in the center. 3  Sometimes, but not often, this type can affect blood vessels or internal organs.
Scleroderma refers to a group of rare chronic autoimmune diseases in which the skin and connective tissues tighten and harden; it is a progressive disease. The skin and connective tissues are fibers that make up the framework that supports the body. It is worse for diffuse cutaneous scleroderma, especially for elderly male patients. Pulmonary, heart and/or kidney complications are the most common causes of death. A symptom is something the patient feels and reports, while a sign is something other people, such as the doctor detect.
Scleroderma, also known as systemic sclerosis, is a chronic systemic autoimmune disease characterised by hardening (sclero) of the skin (derma). In the more severe form, it also affects internal organs. Limited scleroderma involves cutaneous manifestations that mainly affect the hands, arms and face. Death occurs most often from lung, heart and kidney complications. In diffuse cutaneous disease, five-year survival is 70% and 10-year survival is 55%. The cause of scleroderma is unknown. It is an autoimmune condition, in which the body's immune system attacks healthy tissues.
Fast Facts: An Easy-to-Read Series of Publications for the Public. Scleroderma is a group of diseases that affect connective tissue in the body. This tissue supports your skin and internal organs. Scleroderma involves tissue that gets hard or thick. It can also cause swelling or pain in the muscles and joints. Some types of scleroderma lead to hard, tight skin. 
Scleroderma is an autoimmune, rheumatic, and chronic disease that affects the body by hardening connective tissue. (“Connective tissue” is widespread. It adds strength to organs and other parts of the body.) Connective tissue is made of many kinds of proteins. Among them is collagen of the skin. 
Systemic scleroderma (systemic sclerosis) - blood vessels and internal organs are also affected (as well as the skin). The patient may experience fatigue (tiredness), weight loss and muscle pains. A risk factor is something which increases the likelihood of developing a condition or disease. It is worse for diffuse cutaneous scleroderma, especially for elderly male patients. Pulmonary, heart and/or kidney complications are the most common causes of death. A symptom is something the patient feels and reports, while a sign is something other people, such as the doctor detect.
Scleroderma, or systemic sclerosis, is a chronic connective tissue disease generally classified as one of the autoimmune rheumatic diseases. The word “scleroderma” comes from two Greek words: “sclero” meaning hard, and “derma” meaning skin. 