Reactions and compounds. New substances are formed by chemical reactions. When elements react together to form compounds their atoms join to other atoms using chemical bonds. For example, iron and sulfur react together to form a compound called iron sulfide. Mixture of iron (grey) and sulfur (yellow) powders. When elements react, their atoms join with other atoms to form compounds [compound: A compound is a substance formed by the chemical union (involving bond formation) of two or more elements. ] . Chemical bonds form when this happens, which involves atoms transferring or sharing electrons.
Add a comment. Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. substances which are formed ina chemical reaction are called PRODUCTS those substances which take part in a chemicl reaction are called REACTANTS CHEMICAL FORMULAS are short forms or symbols of elements and compounds. 
The substance (or substances) initially involved in a chemical reaction are called reactants or reagents. Chemical reactions are usually characterized by a chemical change, and they yield one or more products, which usually have properties different from the reactants. The general concept of a chemical reaction has been extended to reactions between entities smaller than atoms, including nuclear reactions, radioactive decays, and reactions between elementary particles as described by quantum field theory.
Chemicals or substances change converting to one or more other substances, and these changes are called chemical reactions. At the molecular level, atoms or groups of atoms rearrange resulting in breaking and forming some chemical bonds in a chemical reaction. The substances undergoing changes are called reactants, whereas substances newly formed are called products. Physical appearances of products are often different from reactants. Chemical reactions are often accompanied by the appearance of gas, fire, precipitate, color, light, sound, or odor
Classically, chemical reactions encompass changes that only involve the positions of electrons in the forming and breaking of chemical bonds between atoms, with no change to the nuclei (no change to the elements present), and can often be described by a chemical equation. The general concept of a chemical reaction has been extended to reactions between entities smaller than atoms, including nuclear reactions, radioactive decays, and reactions between elementary particles as described by quantum field theory.
As a demonstration, light a candle and explain what is happening using the terms reactants, products, and chemical reaction. Explain that in most chemical reactions, two or more substances, called reactants, interact to create different substances called products. Tell students that burning a candle is an example of a chemical reaction. In a chemical change, the atoms in the reactants rearrange themselves and bond together differently to form one or more new products with different characteristics than the reactants. When a new substance is formed, the change is called a chemical change.
1 A physical change, such as a state change or dissolving, does not create a new substance, but a chemical change does. 2  In a chemical reaction, the atoms and molecules that interact with each other are called reactants. 3  In a chemical reaction, the atoms and molecules produced by the reaction are called products. In a chemical change, the atoms in the reactants rearrange themselves and bond together differently to form one or more new products with different characteristics than the reactants. When a new substance is formed, the change is called a chemical change.