Hope the following helps. S and O each has 6 electrons in the outer orbit shell. And each has the potential of sharing two electrons with neighbourig atoms. Each of the two unpaired electrons in S interacts with one unpaired electron of O through head-on-head orbit overlap, forming what's called a sigma bond. Thus the octet requirement on S is satisfied.
The fact that they are joined by polar covalent bonds is irrelevant as intermolecular bonds do not usually determine the polarity of intramolecular bonds. Sulphur dioxide is a … ngular in shape, presumably due to the extra electron shell as sulphur and oxygen are in the same group. This means one side of the molecule is more negative than the other and vise versa. This is what makes it a polar molecule.
The sulfur–oxygen bond has a bond order of 1.5. There is support for this simple approach that does not invoke d orbital participation. In terms of electron-counting formalism, the sulfur atom has an oxidation state of +4 and a formal charge of +1. Sulfur dioxide is an intermediate in the production of sulfuric acid, being converted to sulfur trioxide, and then to oleum, which is made into sulfuric acid. Sulfur dioxide for this purpose is made when sulfur combines with oxygen.
Short answer: Two sulfur-oxygen double bonds. A full answer to any question about bonding can be provided only by quantum methods.   Between the a Sulfur atom and an Oxyg … en atoms is a covalent double-bond, Between one molecule of Sulfur Dioxide and another are Van der Waal's forces. Sulfur Dioxide (SO2) is covalent. This is determined because the compound begins with a nonmetal. When any compound begins with a nonmetal, it is covalent. If it were to … begin with a metal, such as Magnesium Bromide, then it would be ionic due to the fact that the compound begins with a metal.
Sulfur dioxide (also sulphur dioxide) is the chemical compound with the formula SO 2. At standard atmosphere, it is a toxic gas with a pungent, irritating, and rotten smell. The triple point is 197.69 K and 1.67 kPa. Sulfur dioxide is an intermediate in the production of sulfuric acid, being converted to sulfur trioxide, and then to oleum, which is made into sulfuric acid. Sulfur dioxide for this purpose is made when sulfur combines with oxygen.
Sulfur dioxide is also a good reductant. In the presence of water, sulfur dioxide is able to decolorize substances. Specifically, it is a useful reducing bleach for papers and delicate materials such as clothes. This bleaching effect normally does not last very long. Sulfur dioxide is an intermediate in the production of sulfuric acid, being converted to sulfur trioxide, and then to oleum, which is made into sulfuric acid. Sulfur dioxide for this purpose is made when sulfur combines with oxygen.
Sulfur dioxide O-S - 0 has two valence pairs on one side of the sulfur, so the oxygens are bent downwards, making it a polar molecule (the bends make it asymmetric) Meanwh … ile, Carbon dioxide, O=C=O has only double bonds around the central atom, no unbonded pairs, so it is a linear, and therefore non-polar molecule. Sulphur dioxide is a … ngular in shape, presumably due to the extra electron shell as sulphur and oxygen are in the same group. This means one side of the molecule is more negative than the other and vise versa. This is what makes it a 
S=S double bonds are therefore much weaker than O=O double bonds. Double bonds between sulfur and oxygen or carbon atoms can be found in compounds such as SO 2 and CS 2 (see figure below). But these double bonds are much weaker than the equivalent double bonds to oxygen atoms in O 3 or CO 2. Because sulfur does not form strong S=S double bonds, elemental sulfur usually consists of cyclic S 8 molecules in which each atom completes its octet by forming single bonds to two neighboring atoms, as shown in the figure below. S 8 molecules can pack to form more than one crystal.
Short answer: Two sulfur-oxygen double bonds. A full answer to any question about bonding can be provided only by quantum methods.   Between the a Sulfur atom and an Oxyg … en atoms is a covalent double-bond, Between one molecule of Sulfur Dioxide and another are Van der Waal's forces. Sulphur dioxide is a … ngular in shape, presumably due to the extra electron shell as sulphur and oxygen are in the same group. This means one side of the molecule is more negative than the other and vise versa. This is what makes it a polar molecule.