Like men we’ll face the murderous, cowardly pack, Pressed to the wall, dying, but fighting back! Source: Claude McKay, “If We Must Die,” in Harlem Shadows: The Poems of Claude McKay (New York: Harcourt, Brace and Co., 1922). See Also: The Harlem Renaissance: George Schuyler Argues against Black Art. The Harlem Renaissance: Zora Neale Hurston's First Story. Black soldiers returning from World War I shared a new sense of pride, militancy, and entitlement, as expressed in Claude McKay’s 1919 protest poem If We Must Die..
Claude McKay was a Jamaican poet best known for his novels and poems, including If We Must Die, which contributed to the Harlem Renaissance. Claude McKay was born in Sunny Ville, Clarendon Parish, Jamaica, on September 15, 1890. McKay moved to Harlem, New York, after publishing his first books of poetry, and established himself as a literary voice for social justice during the Harlem Renaissance. He is known for his novels, essays and poems, including If We Must Die and Harlem Shadows.
“If We Must Die” by Claude McKay, we must fight!! The poem “If We Must Die, by Claude McKay” is about a certain group of people who are hated and hunted by another group of others. I believe that the poet has made this poem to speak to his fellow African-Americans, who are being mistreated by the white slave owners. 
1 Profile and poems of Claude McKay at the Poetry Foundation. 2  Harlem Shadows: An Electronic Tradition Full text of McKay's 1922 collection of poems (including America, December 1919, Enslaved, Harlem Shadows, If We Must Die, On Broadway, Romance, The Tropics in New York) as well as early reviews. His 1922 poetry collection, Harlem Shadows, was among the first books published during the Harlem Renaissance. His Selected Poems was published posthumously, in 1953. McKay was attracted to communism in his early life, but he always asserted that he never became an official member of the Communist Party USA.
Claude McKay wrote “If We Must Die” amid the violence and bloodshed of 1919, and in this poem he encourages his community to take action and to fight back. This message is particularly interesting and striking when we compare it to the work of Langston Hughes, McKay’s contemporary. 
Claude McKay was one of the famous poems in the Harlem Renaissance time. In Claude McKay’s poem “If We Must Die” he uses imagery and describes the poem to deliver feeling by comparing the problems to symbols like animals or objects that his readers can relate to. He was referring to the bloodshed and massacre of 1919. Claude McKay’s “If We must Die” conveys so much power behind each word of this riveting poem. When reading this, as an African American, I can not help but to sense an overwhelming feeling of rebellion and pride. In so many cases African Americans have been treated less than human.
Claude McKay, the first major poet of the Harlem Renaissance. The main thing Claude McKay did to show imagery and description in the poem “If We Must Die” to convey feeling is to shape the trends that would later define that literary moment. Claude McKay’s “If We must Die” conveys so much power behind each word of this riveting poem. When reading this, as an African American, I can not help but to sense an overwhelming feeling of rebellion and pride. In so many cases African Americans have been treated less than human.
New York: Routledge, 1990. Copyright 1990 by Routledge, Chapman & Hall, Inc. Claude McKays If We Must Die, the poem most often judged to be the inaugural address of the Harlem Renaissance, was first printed above an article on Bolshevism and religion in the July 1919 Liberator. It was during those days that the sonnet, If We Must Die, exploded out of me. And for it the Negro people unanimously hailed me as a poet. Indeed, that one grand outburst is their sole standard of appraising my poetry.
Claude McKay’s poem “If We Must Die” shows us that no one really wants to die, but if we must, we want to die fighting. Claude McKay’s imagery in this poem shows an awfully dreadful death of one dying like a “hog” said to be “hunted and penned” somewhere that it cannot get out. Claude McKay’s “If We must Die” conveys so much power behind each word of this riveting poem. When reading this, as an African American, I can not help but to sense an overwhelming feeling of rebellion and pride. In so many cases African Americans have been treated less than human.