If you're sure that you no longer have the physical product key for your version of Microsoft Office, or you've lost or deleted the email receipt that included the product key in it, you might, as I mentioned in the introduction above, be able to extract the key from the registry using a key finder tool.
If you purchased the software from Microsoft online and you downloaded the software to your computer (you are not receiving a disc with the software), the three-letter license designation should be located with the 25-Character Product Key on the download order confirmation page.
Method 4: Find Microsoft Office 2010 product key in Registry. Each time you install Windows, a product license key is entered into the installation wizard. This key is saved in the Windows registry. 1  Step 1. Click Start button and select Run.
If you've lost your Microsoft Office product key, you'll need to find it before you can reinstall the software suite. Microsoft Office product keys are encrypted inside the Windows Registry, so searching for them manually is nearly impossible.
An Office product key uses a combination of 25 letters and numbers, and looks like this: XXXXX-XXXXX-XXXXX-XXXXX-XXXXX. You don’t have to enter the dashes. Choose an option below to learn if you need a product key, and if so, where you can find it. I bought Office from Office.com or the Microsoft Store online.
If your computer came preloaded with Microsoft Windows, the software product key is usually on a multicolored, Microsoft-branded sticker on your PC case. For Microsoft Office, you can find the sticker on the installation disc that accompanied the computer.
You can also retrieve Office 2013 product key in the registry. But the serial number is encrypted in the registry and the operation is difficult for green hands. 1  Step 2: Expand HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE, and scroll down to Software. 2  Step 3: Go to Microsoft, and then find Office under it.
Office came pre-installed on my device. Follow these steps to find out if you need a product key. On Windows 8.1 or Windows 10, choose Start. Scroll down through your apps and choose Microsoft Office, the tile with the Office logo. In the window that opens, choose Activate.