Petal: The parts of a flower that are often conspicuously colored. Stamen: The pollen producing part of a flower, usually with a slender filament supporting the anther. Anther: The part of the stamen where pollen is produced. Pistil: The ovule producing part of a flower. The ovary often supports a long style, topped by a stigma. The mature ovary is a fruit, and the mature ovule is a seed. Stigma: The part of the pistil where pollen germinates
If pollen lands on a compatible pistil or female cone, it germinates, producing a pollen tube that transfers the sperm to the ovule containing the female gametophyte. Individual pollen grains are small enough to require magnification to see detail. A pollen tube is produced, which grows into the nucellus to provide nutrients for the developing sperm cells. Sperm cells of Pinophyta and Gnetophyta are without flagella, and are carried by the pollen tube, while those of Cycadophyta and Ginkgophyta have many flagella.
85,734 Contributions. Pollen is produced in the Anther(s) of the plant; the anther and the filament (the portion which holds the anther) form what is know as the stamen The stamen is the part of th … e flower that makes pollen. The anther is the part of the flower that holds the pollen grains. + 50 others found this useful. Ariany Caceres. 
Stamen. The stamen is the male part of a flower — the reproductive organ that produces the sticky powder known as pollen. The stamen is made up of a filament that holds the anther. The filament is a thin stalk. An anther sits on the tip of each filament and contains the pollen, which is the plant’s male reproductive cell. Cross-pollination is better than self-pollination because it produces stronger plants. However, the pollen from a different species plant will not work. Once ovules in a plant are fertilized with pollen, the ovules develop into fruit. The fruit covers the seeds, which eventually become new plants.
Both gymnosperms (cone-bearing plants) and angiosperms (flowering plants) produce pollen as part of sexual reproduction. In gymnosperms pollen is produced in microsporangiate cones (male cones or pollen cones), while in angiosperms pollen is produced in the anthers (part of the stamen within the flower).
Yes, bryophytes produce pollen, but they also produce spores through alternation of generations. During the haploid (N) gametophyte stage of the pant's life, eggs and sperm ar … e produced. The eggs are fertilized to form a diploid (2N) sporophyte plant which produces spores. Pollen is male part of the flower and stigma is the uppermost part of the gynoecium (which is female part). Thus stigma does not produce pollen, rather pollen land on stigma a … fter pollination to fertilize the egg inside the ovary of the flower. 2 people found this useful. Answered. In Botany or Plant Biology.
Pollen in plants is used for transferring haploid male genetic material from the anther of a single flower to the stigma of another in cross-pollination. In a case of self-pollination, this process takes place from the anther of a flower to the stigma of the same flower. A pollen tube is produced, which grows into the nucellus to provide nutrients for the developing sperm cells. Sperm cells of Pinophyta and Gnetophyta are without flagella, and are carried by the pollen tube, while those of Cycadophyta and Ginkgophyta have many flagella.
Found This Helpful. Pollen production is a critical part of the plant reproduction process. Pollen is produced in a male flower's stamen, and it is a powder of grains that produces the sperm seeds of plants. The stamen is the male organ of the flower and contains a small stalk called a filament. The location of pollen production is dependent on the type of flower producing the pollen. Pollen is produced in the anther of an angiosperm flower, the male cone of a coniferous flower or often in the male cone of other seed plants.
Bees mix dry pollen with nectar and/or honey to compact the pollen in the pollen basket. Dry pollen, is a food source for bees, which contains 16 - 30% protein, 1 - 10% fat, 1 - 7% starch, many vitamins, but little sugar. 