The Keystone XL proposal faces criticism from environmentalists and a minority of the members of the United States Congress. In January 2012, President Barack Obama rejected the application amid protests about the pipeline's impact on Nebraska's environmentally sensitive Sand Hills region. The Keystone Pipeline System is an oil pipeline system in Canada and the United States, commissioned since 2010. It runs from the Western Canadian Sedimentary Basin in Alberta to refineries in Illinois and Texas, and also to oil tank farms and oil pipeline distribution center in Cushing, Oklahoma
1 The proposed Keystone XL Pipeline (Phase IV), which would essentially duplicate the Phase I pipeline between Hardisty, Alberta, and Steele City, Nebraska, with a shorter route and a larger-diameter pipe. The Keystone Pipeline System is an oil pipeline system in Canada and the United States, commissioned since 2010. It runs from the Western Canadian Sedimentary Basin in Alberta to refineries in Illinois and Texas, and also to oil tank farms and oil pipeline distribution center in Cushing, Oklahoma
Proposed And Existing TransCanada Pipelines. The remaining segment, if approved, would run between Alberta and Steele City. If fully completed, the Keystone XL pipeline would be able to move up to 830,000 barrels a day of crude from Canada's oil sands south to the U.S. Gulf Coast. There, refineries would process it into gasoline and other fuels. Pipes for TransCanada's planned Keystone XL pipeline are stored in Gascoyne, N.D. The U.S. House has voted to approve the proposed project, which would allow crude oil to flow from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico. The Senate plans to vote Tuesday on legislation that would greenlight the project.
The fate of the controversial Keystone pipeline isn't the only thing at stake during a crucial vote in the Senate on Tuesday. A vote to move forward on legislation approving the pipeline's construction would usher in a new era of animosity between resurgent Republicans in Congress and President Barack Obama. 
The Gulf Coast Project, a 485-mile crude-oil pipeline being constructed by TransCanada, is part of the Keystone XL Pipeline Project. Approval of Keystone XL, the controversial pipeline that would move heavy Canadian crude to the U.S. Gulf Coast, has been stalled ever since it was first proposed in 2008. And it appears as though the oil industry may have to wait longer still. Stratfor analysts. None of Canada’s hardships will appreciably affect the U.S. energy market — hence why Obama has not prioritized Keystone XL’s approval. A weld shack is moved toward a pipe joint during construction of the Gulf Coast Project pipeline in Atoka, Okla.
Keystone is not the only oil pipeline from the Canadian oil sands. The Alberta Clipper, a 1,000 mile crude oil pipeline operated by Enbridge between Hardisty, Alberta and Superior, WI, went into service in 2010 with an initial capacity of 450,000 b/d and will have an ultimate capacity of up to 800,000 b/d. 
What is the Keystone XL pipeline? The Keystone XL pipeline extension is the original name for a 1,664-mile project that would transport 830,000 barrels of crude oil a day, most of it from Canada’s oil sands to refineries in Port Arthur, Tex. 
The Keystone XL pipeline is a proposed 1,179-mile (1,897km) pipe that would run from the oil sands in Alberta, Canada, to Steele City, Nebraska, where it could join an existing pipe. It could carry 830,000 barrels of oil each day. The proposed XL pipeline has the same origin and destination as an operational pipe, also called Keystone-granted presidential permit in 2008 by President George W Bush-but takes a more direct route. The XL pipeline would allow for an increased supply of oil from Canada.