Forensic psychologists might help police by conducting research into criminality. The research of forensic psychologists is generally used by police to improve their ability to predict criminal behavior and devise strategies for effectively addressing crime. Likely the most well-known aspect of forensic psychology is the process of criminal profiling. 
Research is often a big part of a forensic psychology career. Forensic psychologists will often study and analyze research from other professionals, as well as conduct their own research. They might study criminals and their crimes, for instance, to determine what traits certain types of criminals have. In some cases, the expert testimony of a respected forensic psychologist might be the last piece of the puzzle when trying to convict a criminal. The field of forensic psychology is also a very important part of crime prevention as well. Professionals in this field might be called upon to participate in the rehabilitation of criminals, for instance, to help ensure that they become law abiding citizens
When looking at forensic psychologists, be sure to assess the educational background and experience of these individuals. It is also important to work closely with a court or attorney when seeking forensic psychology services. 
This is considered a narrow definition. The broad definition of forensic psychology emphasizes the application of research and experimentation in other areas of psychology (e.g., cognitive psychology, social psychology) to the legal arena. Forensic psychology, as defined by the American Psychological Association, is the application of clinical specialties to the legal arena. This definition emphasizes the application of clinical psychology to the forensic setting.
Skills, interests and qualities. To become a forensic psychologist you will need to have: 1  a genuine desire to help offenders. 2  a keen interest in the cause and effect of criminal behaviour. 3  resilience, with the ability to deal with the risk of physical or verbal assault.
Skills that you need for forensic psychology jobs include strong research abilities, critical thinking skills, a good working knowledge of the legal system, and solid spoken and written communication skills. The specific subject matter of this research can include employment law, insurance claim law, and family law just to name a few. Solid and efficient research skills are typically one of the first hiring decision factors that potential employers consider when you apply for some of your first forensic psychology jobs.
To do well in most forensic psychology jobs, you will need strong communication skills for presenting your findings in courts of law as well as in various police investigation settings. The ability to maintain a professional demeanor in stressful situations is also a valued characteristic. The specific subject matter of this research can include employment law, insurance claim law, and family law just to name a few. Solid and efficient research skills are typically one of the first hiring decision factors that potential employers consider when you apply for some of your first forensic psychology jobs.
An important aspect of forensic psychology is the ability to testify in court as an expert witness, reformulating psychological findings into the legal language of the courtroom, providing information to legal personnel in a way that can be understood. Questions asked by the court of a forensic psychologist are generally not questions regarding psychology but are legal questions and the response must be in language the court understands.
That is, skills like clinical assessment, interviewing, report writing, strong verbal communication skills (especially if an expert witness in court) and case presentation are all very important in setting the foundation of the practice of forensic psychology. Forensic psychology, as defined by the American Psychological Association, is the application of clinical specialties to the legal arena. This definition emphasizes the application of clinical psychology to the forensic setting.