D. His reform efforts include the Bank of France, the Napoleonic Code (a legal system), and a system of education. 6. Identify the individual who invented the process of removing bacteria cells from food and liquids such as milk, cheese, and juice. A. Louis Pasteur B. Marie Curie C. Ivan Pavlov D. Thomas Edison 7. Capitalism replaced mercantilism as the economic theory prescribed to freeing industry from government regulations. 
1 Dog Castration: When the Procedure Should Be Considered Dog castration is the process of removing the reproductive organs in females and surgically removing the testicles in males. 2  You perhaps feel a little hesitant when it comes …. 1 Harmless bacteria live all over your body, especially in your gut, where they help you d…. 2  Five Alternatives to Cow's Milk If you suffer from lactose intolerance, you may be searching for a good substitute for cow's milk. 3  The good news is that there are many alternatives to cow's milk. 4  From soy b
1 Yes, you are drinking cows blood in the milk and the USDA allows this! 2  Antibiotics: Currently, cows are in such a state of disease and mistreatment that they are continually being injected with antibiotic medicines, and rubbed down with chemical-laden ointments to deal with their chronic infections. Due to the extreme processes that milk goes through and the high amounts of antibiotics, hormones, and genetically-modified substances that cows are continually exposed to, I believe there are real and eminent concerns associated with drinking milk from cows.
Question and answer. who invented the process of removing bacteria cells from food and liquids such as milk, cheese, and juice? A. Louis Pasteur B. Marie Curie C. Ivan Pavlov D. Thomas Edison. The diaphragm is the portion of the respiratory system composed of a ... Weegy: The diaphragm is the portion of the respiratory system composed of a dome-shaped muscle that runs across the ... 10/12/2015 8:28:56 AM| 3 Answers. The _____________ refers to the number that occurs most often in a ...
pasteurization. - - Pasteurization is a century-old process that destroys pathogens through simple heat, and is well-known for its role in making milk and juices safe for consumption. Weegy: Answer The Five year plans were Stalin's method of modernising the country's industry. [ New dams, for hydro-electricity, new roads, new steel & metal plants were created, new mines sunk and new canals dug.
A process similar to pasteurization is thermization, which uses lower temperatures to kill bacteria in milk. It allows a milk product, such as cheese, to retain more of the original taste, but thermized foods are not considered pasteurized by food regulators. Pasteurization (American English) or pasteurisation (British English) is a process invented by French scientist Louis Pasteur during the nineteenth century. In 1864, Pasteur discovered that heating beer and wine was enough to kill most of the bacteria that caused spoilage, preventing these beverages from turning sour.
Pasteurization, a process discovered by Louis Pasteur (while trying to inactivate spoilage organisms in beer and wine), occurs when a product is heated to a specific temperature for a specified length of time. This process is now applied to a wide array of food products, such as milk, fruit juice, cheese, and water. Pasteurization protects consumers from harmful pathogens such as Mycobacterium tuberculosis and Coxiella Burnetii in milk, and pasteurized products benefit from longer shelf life. see also Food Safety. Diane L. Golzynski. Cite this article. Pick a style below, and copy the text for your bibliography.