Honestly, when you go to a restaurant you should tip  your waiter 15% - 20% depending on the meal and how you were  treated. The waiter visits your table four (4) to five (5) times  during the meal. The newspaper carrier stops at your house  everyday. Somewhere between twenty six (26) and 365 times a year. If you are receiving good  service from your carrier--$52.00 would be an appropriate tip  ($1.00 per week). Weekend customers can cut that in half. But if  you can afford it, we can use as much as we can get. I have almost  300 customers and receive only about $400.
Yes, you should. I tipped $15 dollars for my piercings and for tattoos, your tip shows how much you like your tattoo and the quality of work you think your artist did. I'm friends with my piercer, he offers me discounts but I never take them and always tip him about $10, but $5 would be fine (: EDIT: And to Katherine: They do give you beauty advice (well all of the good ones do) they give you aftercare advice and whatnot.
Yes, tipping is appropriate. My last tattoo was $135, I tipped $15. My piercing was $35 and I think I might've tipped $8 or $10, I don't really remember (it was 8 years ago). If you enjoy their work, and they did a good job, of course tip them. I'm friends with my piercer, he offers me discounts but I never take them and always tip him about $10, but $5 would be fine (: EDIT: And to Katherine: They do give you beauty advice (well all of the good ones do) they give you aftercare advice and whatnot.
Of course they don't get paid by the shop at all. It all depends on how much each piercing is, and how much t … he shop charges. For example the shop I work at charges at least forty five dollars a piercing. Now pairs of piercings cost more along with genital piercings and surface piercings (piercings usually on arm, chest, neck). The piercer usually gives $10 sometimes more for every piercing. The ususal amount I leave with is $300 a night. And I work 4 nights a week. $1200 a week, $4800 a month, $57600 a year. Now it can always be more depending on speed, how many hours/days you work, location, and price of
I usually tip $10 for anything under $100 -- piercing and stretching. I think I may have tipped $20 for a branding and for a scarification. Those were a year apart. I'm not totally insane. I tipped $5 for both of mine, but it was a shop that let you bring your own jewelry in (they sterilized it for you before they did the piercing) so it only cost $20 each time.
I would give them $50 for everything. If they don't do a good job, I'm sure you'll have bigger things to worry about then how much do I tip. Granted, you don't HAVE to tip a piercer like you don't HAVE to tip a waiter but most tattoo artist and piercers work on commission and tips and don't get paid by the hour. Let your piercer know that you appreciate the job they did in taking good care of you! Mary L · 7 years ago. Thumbs u
Answer   A piercer at a shop can make a lot of money. Of course they don't get paid by the shop at all. It all depends on how much each piercing is, and how much t … he shop charges. For example the shop I work at charges at least forty five dollars a piercing. Now pairs of piercings cost more along with genital piercings and surface piercings (piercings usually on arm, chest, neck). If you are receiving good  service from your carrier--$52.00 would be an appropriate tip  ($1.00 per week). Weekend customers can cut that in half. But if  you can afford it, we can use as much as we can get. I have almost  300 customers and receive only about $400.
Gratuity for a tattoo or piercing can't really be determined by the percentage rating most use for tipping a restaurant server. Even ten percent of a $200.00 tattoo would be a very substantial amount just to give as a tip. A tip, instead of a percentage, should be based on (1)how much you can afford and (2)how much you feel it is worth. It should be noted, though, that it is not necessary, expected or required for you to tip at all. Professionals in this field realize that most people have been saving for quite some time just to get a tattoo or piercing and might not have anything left afterward.