Rinse the beets and cut away all but an inch of the stalks. Place in a deep microwave-safe with an inch or so of water at the bottom. Microwave for 2 to 4 minutes per beet (2 minutes for small beets, 4 for medium-large) is a guideline, depending on your particular microwave unit. Best to start with less time and check for doneness). Don’t use too much water, otherwise it will boil up and get all over your microwave. 
Turn heat on high until the water begins to boil, then reduce heat to medium to keep water at a simmer. Cook 45 minutes to an hour or until done (for large, fresh ones) or up to four hours (for large, older ones from storage). When they're done, remove from heat, drain water and then plunge them quickly into cold water. Wash, peel and cube (about 2cm) the beetroots. Arrange the cubes in a microwave-proof dish, add 2 tablespoons of water (for every 3 cups of beetroot). Cover with a lid then cook on high for about 5 minutes, stir, then heat for another 3 minutes or until they are tender when pierced with a fork. To preserve as much of the vitamins as possible, avoid overcooking them in the microwave and don't add more water than necessary
Stove top: Boil the beets in water until tender, about 20 to 30 minutes. Or steam them, using less water. Oven roasting: Place peeled and quartered beets in a single layer in a roasting pan or baking dish. Add a few tablespoons of olive oil, some minced garlic, salt and pepper to taste, and combine. COOKING. Beets can be cooked on the stove top, in the oven, by microwave or on the grill, each method requiring varying degrees of time and attention. But all are easy. Beets should be cooked just enough to be easily pierced with a knife, but still have some crunch to them. Peel or rub off the skins after cooking. Microwave: Place the beets in a microwave-safe container with a little water for steam and cook on high until tender, about 10 minutes. (Timing, depending on beet size and unit power, may run from 8 to 15 minutes.)
So, if you want to boil your beets, the easiest way is to clean them, then place them in a saucepan deep enough to let you cover them with water. Add a touch of salt and, if you don’t want the color to run, a splash of vinegar. Put them on the stove and boil until a fork is easily inserted into the flesh of beet. That could be anywhere from 35 minutes to 75 minutes or so, depending on the size of the beets. When the beets are done, remove them from the stove and run cold water over them. That will make them easier to peel
1 Cover with a lid then cook on high for approximately 5 minutes, stir, then heat for another 3 minutes or until they are tender when pierced with a fork. 2  Note: To preserve as much of the vitamins as possible, avoid overcooking them in the microwave and don’t add more water than necessary. 1 Wash, peel and cube them (about 1″). 2  Arrange cubes in a glass microwavable dish, add 2 tablespoons of water (per 2 1/2 cups of beets). 3 
1 Turn heat on high until water begins to boil then reduce heat to medium to keep water at a simmer. 2  Cook 45 minutes to an hour or until done (for large, fresh ones) or up to four hours (for large, older ones from storage). 3  When they’re done, remove from heat, drain water and then plunge them quickly into cold water. 1 Wash, peel and cube them (about 1″). 2  Arrange cubes in a glass microwavable dish, add 2 tablespoons of water (per 2 1/2 cups of beets). 3  Cover with a lid then cook on high for approximately 5 minutes, stir, then heat for another 3 minutes or until they are tender when pierced with a fork.
1 Boil until tender [usually, 30-45 minutes, depending on the size of the beets]. 2  Boiling can take up to 60 minutes for larger beets. 3  Drain and run cold water over beets. 4  The skins will slip right off with the root ends, but make sure you wear kitchen gloves so your hands don't turn red. 
Directions. Place the beets in a large saucepan and add water to cover and the lemon juice or vinegar. This will help to keep the beets from bleeding. Bring to a boil, reduce heat and simmer until tender, about 45 minutes to 1 hour. Place pot under running cold water and let rinse until beets can be handled. The skins can now be easily peeled off the beets.