Aquatic animals are especially susceptible to habitat loss, pollution, competition from invasive species and climate change, and they account for 79 percent of the state's native animal species that have disappeared since the Illinois Endangered Species Protection Act was enacted in 1972.
Related Resources. Endangered species are those at immediate risk of going extinct. The primary factors leading to species becoming endangered include habitat loss, pollution, introduction of other species, and overexploitation.
Although endangered species refers to both the plant and animal kingdoms, this field trip's focus is endangered animals. How many species have made their way onto the endangered species list and how many have completely disappeared in the past fifty years?
Depending on the law, it may be a crime to capture or kill listed species, fail to act to recover them, or harm their habitat or range. The Endangered Species Act lists more than 1,200 U.S. plant and animal species as endangered or threatened with the possibility of becoming endangered.
At the same time that Dr. Phil Willink is mapping the distribution of Illinois’ endangered and threatened fishes, Shedd’s senior research biologist is also keeping an eye on the whereabouts of weatherfish, a non-native species that has invaded Chicago-area waters.
The National Zoo is proud to participate in the recovery efforts for endangered and threatened species. Our scientists, biologists, captive breeding specialists, and veterinarians have contributed to the recovery of giant pandas, tigers, golden lion tamarins, cheetahs, and black-footed ferrets, to name only a few.
Additional Info. Biodiversity is the variety of different types of life found on earth. It is a measure of the variety of organisms present in different ecosystems. This can refer to genetic variation, ecosystem variation, or species variation (number of species) within an area, biome, or planet.
Signed by more than 160 countries, the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) is an agreement to restrict trade of more than 30,000 species of animals and plants, including live and dead specimens (such as marmosets) and parts (such as ivory).