Host Anemone suggestions for Ocellaris Clownfish: Carpet Anemone, Ritteri Anemone, Sebae Anemone. Our 14-Day Guarantee ensures all of the fish, plants, and invertebrates we sell are guaranteed to be delivered alive and remain alive for 14 days from the date of delivery. If an order is placed that contains Saltwater Items (Saltwater Fish, Corals, Live Rock, and/or Invertebrates) with Freshwater Fish/Live Aquarium Plants, Dry Goods, Frozen Foods, Reptiles, or Live Pond Plants, the order will be split into separate orders, and you will be charged separate shipping rates for each order.
1 The weight of the damselfish measures around 250 grams (9 oz.). ( 2 1) These species are 35 cm (13.5 inches) long; with most clown fish measuring at 10 – 15 cm (4 – 6 inches)(1). 3  They have an oval and draw-out body with a single dorsal fin. 4  Damselfish physical feature displays striking patterning. Clown Fish Facts For Kids. Clown fish is also known as Damselfish, anemonefish or Demoiselles. Unlike orange-colored garibaldi (Hypsypops rubicunda) and blue chromis (Chromis cyanae) which exhibit bright color appearance, sergent major (Abudefduf saxatillis) reflects stripes and patches.
Ironically, Finding Nemo, a movie about the anguish of a captured clownfish, caused home-aquarium demand for them to triple. Size relative to a tea cup: Anyone with kids and a DVD player probably thinks they know all there is to know about the clown anemonefish, or, simply, clownfish. There are 28 known species of anemonefish, most of which live in the shallow waters of the Indian Ocean, the Red Sea, and the western Pacific. They are not found in the Caribbean, Mediterranean, or Atlantic Ocean. Surprisingly, all clownfish are born male.
Clarkii Clownfish, Amphiprion clarkii, is commonly found in the Indian and Pacific Oceans. Clownfish, also known as Anemonefish, are omnivores that will eat a wide variety of prepared and frozen foods. They will form shoals in the home aquarium with the two dominant fish becoming a pair. The largest Clown is typically the terminal female, the next largest the male, and the others remain Juvenile
Clownfish are technically classes as 'omnivores' and in the wild their diet consists mainly of algae and small invertebrates that could potentially harm the sea anemone with w … hich Clownfish form a bond. In captivity their diet should remain mostly algae or they will not survive. 1 Green Clown Goby: Facts, Environment, and Food When you are assembling a salt water aquarium, one of the challenges is to find the right fish. 2  There are a wide variety of salt water fish types that you can include.
There is a definite closeness between clownfish and their host Anemone. The Anemones provide protection for the clown, and in turn for this protection the clown feeds and cleans the Anemone and also may even drive off fish that could be harmful to the Anemone. These two animals share a true symbiotic relationship.
According to the scientists, the female only produce aggressive sounds. There are 335 clown fish species around the world. 1  The weight of the damselfish measures around 250 grams (9 oz.). ( 2 1) These species are 35 cm (13.5 inches) long; with most clown fish measuring at 10 – 15 cm (4 – 6 inches)(1). 3  They have an oval and draw-out body with a single dorsal fin. Clown Fish Facts For Kids. Clown fish is also known as Damselfish, anemonefish or Demoiselles. Unlike orange-colored garibaldi (Hypsypops rubicunda) and blue chromis (Chromis cyanae) which exhibit bright color appearance, sergent major (Abudefduf saxatillis) reflects stripes and patches.
Premnas biaculeatus, commonly known as spine-cheeked anemonefish or the maroon clownfish, is a species of anemonefish that is found in the Indo-Pacific from western Indonesia to Taiwan and the Great Barrier Reef. 
Other possible fish to keep with Yellow Tangs include Hawkfish, hogfish, cardinal fish, angels, clownfish, lionfish, eels, or other different-looking Tangs such as the blue tang. Yellow Tangs are reef-safe, and can be kept with most invertebrates in a reef aquarium. The Percula Clown or other clownfish do not need an Anemone to survive, but will accept many different Anemones such as the Long Tentacle, Bubble, Saddle, Maroon, and Carpet (be careful with Carpet anemones and other inhabitants that may get caught in them, such as Seahorses).