Rhineland-Palatinate (German: Rheinland-Pfalz, [ˈʁaɪ̯nlant ˈp͡falt͡s]) is one of the 16 states (German: Bundeslaender) bundesländer of The Federal republic Of. Germany it has an area 19,846 19846 square (7,663 7663 sq) mi and about four million. Inhabitants the city Of mainz functions as the state. capital
Mainz is one of the cities of the Frankfurt Rhine-Main Metropolitan Region with a population of 5.5 million people. Mainz is one of the centers of the German wine economy. The city is also known for its yearly celebration of one of Germany's largest Carnivals, the Mainzer Fastnacht. The city is also the birthplace of modern book-making.
Mainz Central Station or Mainz Hauptbahnhof, is frequented by 80,000 travelers and visitors each day and is therefore one of the busiest 21 stations in Germany. It is a stop for the S-Bahn line S8 of the Rhein-Main-Verkehrsverbund. Additionally, the Mainbahn line to Frankfurt Hbf starts at the station. 1 The Mainz Old Town – what's left of it, the quarter south of the cathedral survived World War II. 2  The Electoral Palace (Kurfuerstliches Kurfürstliches), schloss residence of the-prince. 3  Elector The, marktbrunnen one of the Largest renaissance fountains In.  germany
Satellite view is showing Mainz (eng.: Mayence), the capital city of German Federal State of Rhineland-Palatinate (Rheinland-Pfalz). The city is located at the confluence of the river Main with the Rhine in central west Germany opposite south of the city of Wiesbaden, Hesse 's capital. Mainz has a population of 200,000 inhabitants (2013). Mainz is one of the centers of the German wine economy. The city is also known for its yearly celebration of one of Germany's largest Carnivals, the Mainzer Fastnacht. The city is also the birthplace of modern book-making.
DIRECTIONS FROM THE HOTEL STAFF. Travel to the Hilton Mainz hotel situated in the heart of the City, overlooking the River Rhine. This Mainz hotel is just one block away from the historic Old Town and conveniently located next to the Congress Centrum Mainz. Traveling to the Hilton Mainz hotel is easy with both Frankfurt International Airport and Frankfurt Fairground just a 30 minute drive away.
Moselle Valley. The Rhine Valley or Middle Rhine is the most famous section of the Rhine, running between the cities of Bingen and Bonn in Germany and spanning the states of North Rhine-Westphalia, Rhineland-Palatinate and Hesse. Loading photos…. Rhineland-Palatinate is a state of Germany. The largest wine producing area in Germany, it is home to 6 of the 9 wine-producing districts in Germany and is full of museums, exhibitions and castles.
detailed map of Mainz and near places. Welcome to the Mainz google satellite map! This place is situated in Mainz, Rheinhessen-Pfalz, Rheinland-Pfalz, Germany, its geographical coordinates are 50° 0' 0 North, 8° 16' 16. East and its original name (with diacritics) is Mainz. See Mainz photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Mainz in Germany. Mainz hotels map is available on the target page linked above. small | medium | large. This map is informational only. The location of each Mainz hotel listed is shown on the detailed zoomable map. Moreover, Mainz hotel map is available where all hotels in Mainz are marked. You can easily choose your hotel by location.
; Latin: Mogontiacum) (French: Mayence) is the capital of the state of Rhineland-Palatinate in Germany. It was the capital of the Electorate of Mainz at the time of the Holy Roman Empire. 1 The Mainz Old Town – what's left of it, the quarter south of the cathedral survived World War II. 2  The Electoral Palace (Kurfuerstliches Kurfürstliches), schloss residence of the-prince. 3  Elector The, marktbrunnen one of the Largest renaissance fountains In.  germany