Dependent Child(ren) Visa Basic Requirements. In order to apply for the Dependant Child(ren) visa, prospective sponsor(s) must show that the child they are sponsoring are financially dependent on them and in most cases continuously enrolled and in full-time studies at accredited educational institutions. Why Us. Established in 2002, Migration Expert is a private immigration company with a team of highly experienced ICCRC regulated migration consultants who represent clients from across the globe wishing to apply for a Canadian visa.
The Dependent Child Sponsorship Program. Dependent children, both natural and adopted, may be sponsored to live with their parent(s) as Permanent Residents in Canada. The child sponsorship program is a subsection of the Family Class of immigration. In order to be eligible for this program, both the Canadian citizen or permanent resident (also called the ‘sponsor’) and their child abroad (the ‘sponsored person’) must be approved by Citizenship and Immigration Canada (CIC) in order for the sponsored person to receive a visa.
A Canadian citizen or a permanent resident of Canada who is 18 years of age or older can sponsor a spouse, common-law or conjugal partner, or dependent children to come to Canada as permanent residents. Visa acquiring process(Sponsoring Spouses & Dependent Children). 1  To be a sponsor, you must be 18 years of age or older. 2  Your spouse or dependent children can be inside or outside Canada at the time of application. 1 Your spouse or dependent children can be inside or outside Canada at the time of application. 2  To be eligible to become a sponsor for spouse, common-law or conjugal partner, or dependent children to become permanent residents of Canada, you must promise to support them financially.
As a result of recent regulatory amendments, starting 1 August 2014 the Canadian government will redefine who can immigrate to Canada as a ‘dependent child’. From that date onward, the definition of dependent children will be narrowed to individuals 19 years of age or younger. With the new definition of “dependant child” coming into force, the Government of Canada will now reduce the age of dependency to 19. This means that, after August 1, in order to be considered a dependent child for the purposes of immigration, an individual must: 1  Be under 19 years of age; and.
Dependent Child(ren) Visa Entitlements. Any dependent children, who are granted permanent residence under the Family Class, will have the right to live, work and study in Canada indefinitely. Permanent residents can access Canada's unique government-funded health care, subsidized education, language training programs and assistance for finding employment. Why Us. Established in 2002, Migration Expert is a private immigration company with a team of highly experienced ICCRC regulated migration consultants who represent clients from across the globe wishing to apply for a Canadian visa.
Dependent Children. Besides the eligibility of spousal relationships for a Canadian family sponsorship visa, you may also sponsor any dependent children under the age of 19 (even those from a previous marriage or relationship). However, children under the age of 19 who are in a spousal relationship cannot be sponsored
Limelight-Sponsoring Spouses and Dependent Children Visa. 1  If your application for this family visa is approved, the visa office will issue a permanent resident visa to you. 2  Your permanent resident visa includes your Confirmation of Permanent Residence (COPR) and your entry visa. 1 Your spouse or dependent children can be inside or outside Canada at the time of application. 2  To be eligible to become a sponsor for spouse, common-law or conjugal partner, or dependent children to become permanent residents of Canada, you must promise to support them financially.
Dependent Child Sponsorship. The Family Class sponsorship category was created to reunite close family members in Canada. Through the Family Class, Canadian citizens and permanent residents may sponsor their dependent children, parents and grandparents, spouse, common-law, and conjugal partners. The Government of Canada has a strong commitment to keeping families together whenever possible. In order to be eligible for this program, both the Canadian citizen or permanent resident (also called the ‘sponsor’) and their child abroad (the ‘sponsored person’) must be approved by Citizenship and Immigration Canada (CIC) in order for the sponsored person to receive a visa.
Effective August 1, 2014, Citizenship and Immigration Canada has changed its definition of a dependent child for its immigration programs. A dependent child must be under 19 years of age, instead of the previous limit of under 22 years of age. Find out more about the change in the definition of a dependent child. A son or daughter is considered a dependant of their parent when the child is: 1  under 19 years old, and does not have a spouse or partner, or. 2  19 years old and over, and has depended largely on the parent’s financial support since before the age of 19 because of a physical or mental condition.