Practitioners of magnetic field therapy believe that interactions between the body, the earth, and other electromagnetic fields cause physical and emotional changes in humans. They also believe that the body's electromagnetic field must be in balance to maintain good health.
Magnetic therapy products are not meant to be sold as a substitute for traditional medicinal practices prescribed by your doctor. Magnetic jewelry or magnetic therapy products can be used as an alternative and natural approach to help resolve many pain issues, but they do not cure disease.
Magnetic therapy is defined as the application of magnets to the body for healing benefits. When a magnet is used for healing, it is typically referred to as a healing magnet or biomagnet.
Magnet therapy: Magnetic therapy, also called magnetic field therapy and bioenergy therapy, is an alternative therapy that uses magnets of varying sizes and strengths that are placed on the body to relieve pain and treat disease.
Magnetic therapy, more accurately termed magnetic field therapy, is the use of magnetic fields, generated by either permanent magnets or pulsed electromagnetic fields, for treatment of medical conditions.
As a form of treatment, magnetic therapy is most often used to enhance healing from injuries and wounds or to treat chronic conditions such as tendonitis, degenerative joint disease, hip dysplasia, vertebral disease, and lameness caused by other musculoskeletal or neurologic conditions.
Magnetic Therapy offers patients an alternative type of healing method. It works by using magnets on the painful areas of the body. Through the magnets, magneto static fields are produced and these have the effects of easing pain as well as producing other significant health benefits.
Magnetic therapy and magnetic jewelry is used as an alternative treatment to help relieve pain and increase the body’s natural healing process. It is believed that when magnetic therapy is applied it can improve the blood flow by reducing inflammation and enhancing the body’s
Magnetic field therapy uses magnets to maintain health and treat illness. The human body and the earth naturally produce electric and magnetic fields. Electromagnetic fields also can be technologically produced, such as radio and television waves.
Magnetic therapy is an alternative medical practice that uses static (i.e. unmoving) magnets to alleviate pain and other health concerns. So-called therapeutic magnets are typically integrated into bracelets, rings, or shoe inserts, though therapeutic magnetic mattresses and clothing are also on the market.