People can be told to hold stretches from “a few seconds” to “a few minutes”, and very definite time periods in-between. There is a body of evidence that suggests stretch receptors disengage after approximately 30 seconds of stretching. The standard 3 x 30 seconds on that basis is therefore well considered.
The best way to stretch is to warm up for at least 5 to 10 minutes before you stretch. It can be dangerous to stretch a cold muscle. Once you’re ready to stretch, hold the stretch for 5 seconds, release for 5 seconds, and then execute again, holding for 10-30 seconds.
A Dr. Harris McIlwain, MD, Rheumatology, answered. Gently stretch as far as you can, hold the stretch for 30 seconds, and then ease back. Studies show that holding a stretch for 30 seconds produces the same result as holding it for 60 seconds. You will feel a gentle stretch but should not have pain or discomfort. As your muscle adapts, the stretch feeling will diminish.
ACSM recommends adults hold static stretches for 10 to 30 seconds. Repeat each stretch two to four times to achieve a total of 60 seconds of stretching for the muscle. Aim to stretch all major muscles, including the hamstrings, hips, quadriceps, back, shoulders, chest and arms.
People can be told to hold stretches from a few seconds to a few minutes, and very definite time periods in between. There is a body of evidence that suggests stretch receptors disengage after approximately 30 seconds of stretching. The standard 3 x 30 seconds on that basis is therefore well considered.
Gently stretch as far as you can, hold the stretch for 30 seconds, and then ease back. Studies show that holding a stretch for 30 seconds produces the same result as holding it for 60 seconds. You will feel a gentle stretch but should not have pain or discomfort. As your muscle adapts, the stretch feeling will diminish.
Q On a recent visit to a podiatrist I was given a stretching programme in which I was told to hold each stretch for up to 15 minutes. I was surprised by the length of these stretches, as Ive always been told that you should do stretches in three sets of 30 seconds.