If you specifically note the bequest is in lieu of the executor’s fee, this may cause CRA to still have you declare it as income. What can seem as a minor change to your will should be carefully thought out. Seeking advice from your estate lawyer, an estate specialist and a tax specialist is the ideal.
The executor is entitled to charge for the administration of the estate. Typically, as a guideline, the fee is 2.5 per cent of assets in and assets out or disbursed. If the estate is administered for a period of time there can be an additional fee of two-fifths of 1 per cent of the average value
He has many duties and Ontario law allows an executor to charge for his services. The amount of fees depends on the magnitude of the estate and extent of duties to be performed by the executor. Generally fee is charged according to the following guidelines.
If you receive money from the deceased’s estate as directed in the will, you do not pay tax on this amount. If you claim an executor’s fee, you must include this on your tax return as taxable income and pay tax on it.
The executor is named in a will. In general, the executor gathers up the estate assets, pays the deceased’s debts, and divides what remains of the deceased’s estate among the beneficiaries. The beneficiaries, in turn, are the people named in the will to inherit the testator’s estate.
Discuss executor fees up front. Discuss the issue of executor fees with your family and your executor when making your estate plan. These fees are often a surprise to beneficiaries so it helps if they understand what the usual fee range is.
1 An executor is the person named in a will to administer a decedent 's estate. 2  If an executor cannot do the job, or if there is no will, the court appoints someone to manage the estate: that person is called an administrator. 3  Executors and administrators are referred to as personal representatives.
Should you wish to take executor fees for your efforts, there is a standard schedule for fees in most provinces. For example in Ontario, the fee is 2.5% of the receipts of estate and 2.5% of the disbursements of the estate. Finally, it is important to note that executor fees are taxable as the taxman gets you coming, going and even administering the going.