Roth 401(k) Distribution Rules. While many investors understand that a Roth 401(k) is basically a hybrid of a regular 401(k) and a Roth IRA, if my email correspondence is any indication, many people are somewhat confused about the details. Specifically, many people have misunderstandings about either of two points:
We've now reviewed the provisions in the law regarding the Roth IRA contribution (putting your cashin) and eligibility rules (the stick). Here we'll review the tax treatment of qualified distributions (getting your cash out) from the Roth IRA (the carrot).
Roth IRAs are not subject to the lifetime Required Minimum Distribution rules since no distributions are required during the lifetime of the owner. However, Roth IRAs are subject to Required Minimum Distributions rules after the death of the owner of the Roth IRA with a 50% penalty if such distributions are not made.
The tax treatment of a Roth IRA distributions depends on whether the distribution is qualified. Qualified distributions from Roth IRAs are tax and penalty free, but nonqualified distributions may be subjected to tax and an early distribution penalty.
Your required minimum distribution is the minimum amount you must withdraw from your account each year. You generally have to start taking withdrawals from your IRA, SEP IRA, SIMPLE IRA, or retirement plan account when you reach age 70½. Roth IRAs do not require withdrawals until after the death of the owner.
Roth IRAs are not subject to required minimum distributions. If some of your money is in a Roth 401(k) and some is in a traditional 401(k), roll the traditional 401(k) money into a traditional IRA and the Roth money into a Roth IRA to avoid any tax complications.
A Roth IRA is an IRA that, except as explained below, is subject to the rules that apply to a traditional IRA. You cannot deduct contributions to a Roth IRA. If you satisfy the requirements, qualified distributions are tax-free. You can make contributions to your Roth IRA after you reach age 70 ½. You can leave amounts in your Roth IRA as long as you live. The account or annuity must be designated as a Roth IRA when it is set up.