A functional dependency is a constraint between columns of your table. For example in the table person: Here, the value in the column SSN (Social Security Number) determines the values in columns name, date of birth, address and phone number. A functional dependency isn't in any normal form. Normal Form is a property of a relation that satisfies some given set of FDs. Don't rely on Wikipedia or Google. There is too much misinformation and rubbish from online sources.
A simple application of functional dependencies is Heath’s theorem; it says that a relation R over an attribute set U and satisfying a functional dependency X → Y can be safely split in two relations having the lossless-join decomposition property, namely into where Z = U − XY are the rest of the attributes. A notion of logical implication is defined for functional dependencies in the following way: a set of functional dependencies logically implies another set of dependencies, if any relation R satisfying all dependencies from also satisfies all dependencies from; this is usually written.
Definition: A trivial functional dependency occurs when you describe a functional dependency of an attribute on a collection of attributes that includes the original attribute. This type of functional dependency is called trivial because it can be derived from common sense. It is obvious that if you already know the value of B, then the value of B can be uniquely determined by that knowledge.
A functional dependency has one set determining another. Either set can have any number of attributes. (If a set has just one attribute we also say that that attribute determines or is determined.). Transitive functional dependency is defined as: If A → B and B → C then A → C (Reference: This Tutorial!). That is unclear. So is your reference
Given a relation R, a set of attributes X in R is said to functionally determine another set of attributes Y, also in R, (written X → Y) if, and only if, each X value is associated with precisely one Y value; R is then said to satisfy the functional dependency X → Y. Equivalently, the projection is a function, i.e. A notion of logical implication is defined for functional dependencies in the following way: a set of functional dependencies logically implies another set of dependencies, if any relation R satisfying all dependencies from also satisfies all dependencies from; this is usually written.
Functional Dependency. Functional Dependency is the starting point for the process of normalization. Functional dependency exists when a relationship between two attributes allows you to uniquely determine the corresponding attribute’s value. If ‘X’ is known, and as a result you are able to uniquely identify ‘Y’, there is functional dependency. Combined with keys, normal forms are defined for relations
A functional dependency FD: X → Y is called trivial if Y is a subset of X. In other words, a dependency FD: X → Y means that the values of Y are determined by the values of X. Two tuples sharing the same values of X will necessarily have the same values of Y. A notion of logical implication is defined for functional dependencies in the following way: a set of functional dependencies logically implies another set of dependencies, if any relation R satisfying all dependencies from also satisfies all dependencies from; this is usually written.
Functional Dependencies are fundamental to the process of Normalization Functional Dependency describes the relationship between attributes(columns) in a table. In other words, a dependency FD: X → Y means that the values of Y are determined by the values of X. A functional dependency isn't in any normal form. Normal Form is a property of a relation that satisfies some given set of FDs. Don't rely on Wikipedia or Google. There is too much misinformation and rubbish from online sources.
A simple application of functional dependencies is Heath’s theorem; it says that a relation R over an attribute set U and satisfying a functional dependency X → Y can be safely split in two relations having the lossless-join decomposition property, namely into where Z = U − XY are the rest of the attributes. A functional dependency FD: X → Y is called trivial if Y is a subset of X. The determination of functional dependencies is an important part of designing databases in the relational model, and in database normalization and denormalization.