1. haloalkane-organic compound in which halogen atoms have been substituted for hydrogen atoms in an alkane. alkyl halide. haloform-compounds with the formula CHX3, where X is a halogen atom. organic compound-any compound of carbon and another element or a radical. 
Halocarbon compounds are chemicals in which one or more carbon atoms are linked by covalent bonds with one or more halogen atoms (fluorine, chlorine, bromine or iodine – group 17) resulting in the formation of organofluorine compounds, organochlorine compounds, organobromine compounds, and organoiodine compounds. Organoiodine compounds, called organic iodides, are similar in structure to organochlorine and organobromine compounds, but the C-I bond is weaker. Many organic iodides are known, but few are of major industrial importance.
1 Halogenated refers to a chemical compound or mixture that contains halogen atoms. 2  Halide refers to the monoanionic (one negative charge) form of a halogen atom, specifically, fluoride (F -), chloride (Cl -), bromide (Br -) and iodide (I -). Halogen. 1  Halogen refers to those elements in the seventeenth column of the periodic table, fluorine (F), chlorine (Cl), bromine (Br), iodine (I), and astatine (At):
Halogenated solvents. Halogenated refers to a chemical compound or mixture that contains halogen atoms, i.e. fluorine, chlorine, bromine, or iodine. Bonding to carbon the halogens form a class of compounds called covalent halides, i.e. they are not electroylytic in nature. Some other terms for these compounds are halocarbons (halogenated hydrocarbons), chlorocarbons and chlorofluorocarbons (CFC’s, a class of molecules containing chlorine, fluorine, and carbon).
Many synthetic organic compounds such as plastic polymers, and a few natural ones, contain halogen atoms; these are known as halogenated compounds or organic halides. Chlorine is by far the most abundant of the halogens in seawater, and the only one needed in relatively large amounts (as chloride ions) by humans. In the modern IUPAC nomenclature, this group is known as group 17. The name 'halogen' means 'salt-producing'. When halogens react with metals they produce a wide range of salts, including calcium fluoride, sodium chloride (common salt), silver bromide and potassium iodide.
Definition. 1  Halogen refers to those elements in the seventeenth column of the periodic table, fluorine (F), chlorine (Cl), bromine (Br), iodine (I), and astatine (At): 2  Halogenated refers to a chemical compound or mixture that contains halogen atoms. Haloge
The halogens or halogen elements (/ˈhaelɵdʒɨn/) ˈhælɵdʒɨn are a group in the periodic table consisting of five chemically related: elements (Fluorine), f (Chlorine), cl (Bromine), br (Iodine), i and (Astatine). at In the modern IUPAC nomenclature, this group is known as group 17. The name 'halogen' means 'salt-producing'. When halogens react with metals they produce a wide range of salts, including calcium fluoride, sodium chloride (common salt), silver bromide and potassium iodide.
Reactive groups are categories of chemicals that typically react in similar ways because they are similar in their chemical structure. Each substance with a chemical datasheet has been assigned to one or more reactive groups, and CAMEO Chemicals uses the reactive group assignments to make its reactivity predictions. The brominated materials tend to be particularly toxic. Much of the toxicity is due to the fact that these substances are not metabolized, but persist and accumulate in fatty tissues (they tend to be fat-soluble). The combustion of chlorinated organic compounds may produce poisonous phosgene gas (COCl2).
However, many halogenated organic compounds of high molecular weight, in particular those containing several halogen atoms per molecule, are nonflammable; some are in fact used as fire retardants. Reactivity. Halogenated aliphatic compounds are moderately or very reactive. The brominated materials tend to be particularly toxic. Much of the toxicity is due to the fact that these substances are not metabolized, but persist and accumulate in fatty tissues (they tend to be fat-soluble). The combustion of chlorinated organic compounds may produce poisonous phosgene gas (COCl2).