Each reading is compared with the initial or baseline reading, which is taken when you are breathing without any symptoms. Normal readings of peak flow meters depend on a person's age, sex, and height. For example, a 30 year old male that is 5'10'' tall should have a reading close to 622 liters per minute. Check the charts below for normal peak flow values (click on images to enlarge). Normal readings of peak flow meters are within 80-100% of the baseline reading. These readings are categorized in the green peak flow zone, which indicates stable lung function. When the readings are between 50 and 80% of the baseline reading, they are categorized in the yellow peak flow zone
Use of the peak flow meter depends on a number of things. Its use should be discussed with your healthcare provider. If your asthma is well controlled and you know your normal rate, you may decide to measure your peak flow rate only when you sense that your asthma is getting worse. A peak flow meter is a portable, inexpensive, hand-held device used to measure how air flows from your lungs in one fast blast.. In other words, the meter measures your ability to push air out of your lungs. Peak flow meters com in two ranges to measure the air pushed
What peak flow readings mean. Ask your child's doctor what peak flow readings are normal for your child. Peak flow is predicted based on average readings for your child’s height. So normal peak flow will change as your child grows. Many peak flow meters are colour-coded or come with a chart so that you can easily compare the readings. The peak flow meter is very dependent on your child's effort. To use a peak flow meter effectively, your child must be old enough to follow instructions and to make a consistent effort even when she is sick.
Peak flow meters are very helpful if you or your child have moderate to severe asthma and require daily asthma medications. Even most children ages 6 and up should be able to use a peak flow meter with good results. Measuring your peak flow using this meter is an important part of managing your asthma symptoms and preventing an asthma attack. The peak flow meter works by measuring how fast air comes out of the lungs when you exhale forcefully after inhaling fully.
To measure peak flow, your child breathes in and then blows as hard and as quickly as she can into the meter. This gives a reading that you can compare with your child’s normal (baseline) reading or with the normal range for your child’s height. Many peak flow meters are colour-coded or come with a chart so that you can easily compare the readings. The peak flow meter is very dependent on your child's effort. To use a peak flow meter effectively, your child must be old enough to follow instructions and to make a consistent effort even when she is sick.
How will the change affect me as a: Predictive Normal Values (Nomogram, EU scale). The change in scale for peak flow meters will result in PEF readings that are different, depending on whether the individual has used a Wright scale meter, or the new EU scale meter. 
These zones are different for each person. Your doctor will help determine your peak flow zones. The three peak flow zones include: Green. This is the go zone. The green zone is from 80 to 100 percent of your highest peak flow reading, or personal best. This is the zone you should be in every day. 
This zone is from 80 to 100 percent of your child's personal best peak flow reading. This is the zone your child should be in every day. This is a signal that air moves well through his or her airways and that your child can do the usual activities and go to sleep without trouble. A peak flow meter (PFM) is a device used to measure how well your child's asthma is under control. The device measures air flowing out of the lungs, called peak expiratory flow rate (PEFR), as a child forcefully blows into the device.
Normal peak flow readings vary, depending on your age, size, and sex. The range of normal peak flow readings is published on a chart, and doctors and nurses refer to the chart when they check your peak flow reading. Normally, in healthy people, peak flow readings vary slightly from time to time. If you have untreated asthma: 1  Your peak flow readings will usually be low. 2  No matter how strong you are, if your airways are narrowed, your peak flow will be lower than expected for your age, size, and sex. 3  Your peak flow readings will tend to vary quite a lot.
When the peak flow readings are in this zone, your child should: Avoid asthma triggers. Use controller medications every day. Use the reliever medications 15 to 20 minutes before exercise if your child's asthma is triggered by exercise, as directed by your child's provider. A peak flow meter (PFM) is a device used to measure how well your child's asthma is under control. The device measures air flowing out of the lungs, called peak expiratory flow rate (PEFR), as a child forcefully blows into the device.