Endoscopic Ultrasound. Curved Linear Array Ultrasound is used as a therapeutic tool for real time EUS-guided fine needle aspiration (FNA) or fine needle injection (FNI). This type of imaging provides a sagittal view and is used primarily for biopsy of lesions or lymph nodes as well as injection for pain management. 
An Introduction to EUS (Endoscopic Ultrasound). Disclaimer: This is a professional nursing blog related to Endoscopy and the target audience is any Registered Nurse. The benefit of using this blog is that it is an easy way to learn about topics in nursing you may not know about. In EUS, the endoscope also has an ultrasound transducer tip on it. With this specialized scope, not only can the doctor visualize the lining of the digestive tract endoscopically, but using high-frequency sound waves, can also produce highly detailed images of the musculature and surrounding structures and organs.
Endoscopic ultrasound can also be used in conjunction with endoscopic retrograde cholangio pancreatography (ERCP) . The ultrasound probe is used to locate gall stones which may have migrated into the common bile duct. It can be used to visualize the walls of these organs, or to look at adjacent structures. Combined with Doppler imaging, nearby blood vessels can also be evaluated. Endoscopic ultrasonography is most commonly used in the upper digestive tract and in the respiratory system.
Endoscopic Ultrasound (EUS) is a relatively new technology. EUS is an outpatient procedure that is performed with either sedation or general anesthesia. An experienced gastroenterologist with specialized training inserts a flexible illuminated camera attached with a sensitive miniature ultrasound into the mouth or anus and advances the camera to the desired location.
A. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) is a procedure that allows a doctor to obtain images and information about the digestive tract and the surrounding tissue and organs, including the lungs. During the procedure, a small ultrasound device is installed on the tip of an endoscope. An endoscope is a small, lighted, flexible tube with a camera attached. By inserting the endoscope and camera into the upper or the lower digestive tract, the doctor is able to obtain high-quality ultrasound images of organs.
Endoscopic Ultrasound (EUS) combines endoscopy and ultrasound in order to obtain images and information about the digestive tract and the surrounding tissue and organs. In EUS a small ultrasound transducer is installed on the tip of the endoscope. By inserting the endoscope into the upper or the lower digestive tract one can obtain high quality ultrasound images of the organs inside the body.
An “upper EUS” refers to an esophagogastroduodenoscopy with ultrasound. In this test, the doctor can visualize the esophagus, mediastinum, stomach, duodenum, pancreas, liver, gallbladder, spleen, adrenal glands, parts of the kidneys and all surrounding lymph nodes. In EUS, the endoscope also has an ultrasound transducer tip on it. With this specialized scope, not only can the doctor visualize the lining of the digestive tract endoscopically, but using high-frequency sound waves, can also produce highly detailed images of the musculature and surrounding structures and organs.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) or echo-endoscopy is a medical procedure in which endoscopy (insertion of a probe into a hollow organ) is combined with ultrasound to obtain images of the internal organs in the chest, abdomen and colon. It can be used to visualize the walls of these organs, or to look at adjacent structures. Combined with Doppler imaging, nearby blood vessels can also be evaluated. Endoscopic ultrasonography is most commonly used in the upper digestive tract and in the respiratory system.
EUS is used to further investigate lesions, masses, and cysts that have been found during a routine endoscopy, conventional ultrasound, CT scan or MRI. EUS can provide detailed ultrasound images and measurements of tumors. In EUS, the endoscope also has an ultrasound transducer tip on it. With this specialized scope, not only can the doctor visualize the lining of the digestive tract endoscopically, but using high-frequency sound waves, can also produce highly detailed images of the musculature and surrounding structures and organs.
The endoscope (flexible tube) for endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) has a small ultrasound scanner at the tip. The test is commonly performed with sedation. There are two kinds of EUS – radial and linear. A radial EUS is performed for diagnostic reason whereas a linear EUS may be done for both diagnostic and therapeutic reasons.