I was asked that question repeatedly after visiting there in 2010 and sharing amazing photos of wildlife and outdoor adventures with friends. Borneo is actually the third-largest island in the world, situated in the center of Southeast Asia just east of Singapore and southwest of the Philippines. Indonesia claims a lion's share -- around 73% -- of Borneo in a province called Kalimantan. The northern edge of the island, which is also the most visited and developed, is part of Malaysia. Made up of two states, Sarawak and Sabah, Malaysian Borneo is a dream for anyone who loves the outdoor
Borneo (/ˈbɔrnioʊ/ ; Indonesian: Kalimantan, Malay: Borneo) is the third-largest island in the world and the largest island in Asia. At the geographic center of Maritime Southeast Asia, in relation to major Indonesian islands, it is located north of Java, west of Sulawesi, and east of Sumatra. 1 The Borneo montane rain forests lie in the central highlands of the island, above the 1,000 metres (3,300 ft) elevation. 2  The highest elevations of Mount Kinabalu are home to the Kinabalu mountain alpine meadow, an alpine shrubland notable for its numerous endemic species, including many orchids.
This is a young Asian Elephant immersed in a river on the island of Borneo. The Asian inhabits Southeast Asia from India in the west to Borneo in the east. The Asian elephant is smaller than the African elephant. Gibbons are often seen in zoos, but not this one, as it was swinging free in a rain forest on the island of Borneo. Kota Kinabalu is the capital of Sabah, a semi-autonomous state in Malaysia, located on the massive Island of Borneo. Scenic wonders and fascinating wildlife are the major attractions here as Orangutans, Proboscis Monkeys, Malay Gibbons, Asia Elephants and other endangered species are commonplace
Print this map. Kota Kinabalu is the capital of Sabah, a semi-autonomous state in Malaysia, located on the massive Island of Borneo. Scenic wonders and fascinating wildlife are the major attractions here as Orangutans, Proboscis Monkeys, Malay Gibbons, Asia Elephants and other endangered species are commonplace
Indonesia, with over 18,000 counted islands, is by far the largest and most varied archipelago on Earth. It spans almost 2 million square kilometers between Asia and Australia. With a population of 248,216,193, Indonesia shares land borders with 3 countries: Malaysia, Timor-Leste and Papa New Guinea. 
The island is divided among three countries: Malaysia and Brunei in the north, and Indonesia to the south. Approximately 73% of the island is Indonesian territory. In the north, the East Malaysian states of Sabah and Sarawak make up about 26% of the island. 1 The Borneo montane rain forests lie in the central highlands of the island, above the 1,000 metres (3,300 ft) elevation. 2  The highest elevations of Mount Kinabalu are home to the Kinabalu mountain alpine meadow, an alpine shrubland notable for its numerous endemic species, including many orchids.
Share. Borneo Island is the third largest island in the world. Famous for its protected National Parks, Borneo Indonesia offers a superb mix of Malaysian culture and teeming jungle wildlife. A Borneo holiday is a great way to discover the best of South East Asia with an unrivaled eco-experience. While Borneo is split between Malaysia, Indonesia and the tiny Kingdom of Brunei, each specific territory offers a unique perspective. Borneo Indonesia is famed for its wildlife conservation. Organized jungle treks to climb Mount Kinabalu in Borneo Indonesia are a popular excursion and an excellent way to explore Borneo Island. Mount Kinabalu is located in Borneo's Sabah district and the summit can be reached relatively easily.
Orangutan, Sumatran rhino, Borneo pygmy elephant, Sumatran tiger, Sumatran elephant. The Southeast Asian islands of Borneo and Sumatra, located on the Equator, are home to some of the world’s most diverse rain forests and Southeast Asia’s last intact forests. Borneo is the world’s third largest island, covering an area slightly larger than Texas. The cultural diversity of Borneo and Sumatra is as distinct and varied as its plant life. More than 60 million people live on these two islands. They are a mix of indigenous peoples and immigrants from other islands in Indonesia, such as Java, as well as other Asian countries. The current population of Borneo is estimated at 18 million. Sumatra is home to 50 million people and is the world's fourth most populous island