Kale is higher in fiber than lettuce. Leafy green vegetables like kale and lettuce are both rich in fiber and low in calories. Kale comes in deep green or purple colors. Lettuce varies in colors and varieties, including red and green romaine, iceberg and red leaf.
Aphids and leafminers only. Collards, kale, kohlrabi, mustard greens, rape greens, lettuce, endive or spinach. Do not exceed 18.75 fl. oz. per acre per season. Allow 5 days between applications.7 day PHI.4 day PHI for collard, endive, mustard greens, Swiss chard, spinach, turnip greens, and leaf lettuce; 7 day PHI for heat lettuce.
Some of the commonly grown leafy greens are collards, kale, lettuce, spinach, turnip greens, and Swiss chard. However there are some popular specialty leafy greens such as mustard greens, arugula, cress, mache, dandelion, and Asian vegetables. Leafy greens are becoming more popular in home gardens.. Discard any diseased, bruised or yellow leaves. Harvest collards by removing the outer leaves, spinach by cutting dark green outer tender leaves that are three to six inches long, and Swiss chard by removing outer leaves. Harvest by removing outer leaves of kale, mustard greens, and turnip greens, he said.
Direct seed collards, kale, lettuce, and spinach as soon as the ground can be worked in early spring and at least two to three months before the fall frost date. Plant seeds one-fourth to one-half inch deep in rows that are 18 to 30 inches apart.iscard any diseased, bruised or yellow leaves. Harvest collards by removing the outer leaves, spinach by cutting dark green outer tender leaves that are three to six inches long, and Swiss chard by removing outer leaves. Harvest by removing outer leaves of kale, mustard greens, and turnip greens, he said.
Greens are any sort of cabbage in which the green leaves do not form a compact head. They are mostly kale, collards, turnip, spinach, and mustard greens. In the Southern states, a large quantity of greens to serve a family is commonly referred to as a mess o' greens.. The exact quantity that constitutes a mess varies with the size of the family.ngredients: Collard greens (whole collard heads or leaves)* 2 to 3 ham hocks Water Salt to taste Toppings (suggestions follow). * When buying collards, make sure to choose dark green leaves with no wilting or yellowness. Remember collard greens cook down, so purchase enough for your family.
Cooked greens like cabbage count as one cup of veggies. For salad greens, two cups are equal to one cup of vegetables. The true Southern way to cook collards -- or the more peppery mustard greens shown here -- is with chunks of ham or Andouille sausage. Recipe developer Clegg, who calls Louisiana home, creates a similar flavor with turkey sausage or Canadian bacon. This cuts the fat and sodium in this favorite side dish.outhern-style Green
Collards, endive, kale, lettuce, spinach, and Swiss chard are popular salad vegetables. Other specialty greens, such as arugula, cress, mache, mustard greens, and various Asian greens are becoming more common in home gardens. To direct seed collards, endive, kale, lettuce, and spinach sow seeds as soon as soil can be worked in the spring and about 3 months before the average fall frost date for a fall crop. Plant seeds 1/4-1/2 inch deep, in rows 18-30 inches apart.
Southern-style Greens. The true Southern way to cook collards -- or the more peppery mustard greens shown here -- is with chunks of ham or Andouille sausage. Recipe developer Clegg, who calls Louisiana home, creates a similar flavor with turkey sausage or Canadian bacon. This cuts the fat and sodium in this favorite side dish.
From farmers' markets and supermarkets to gourmet restaurants and backyard gardens, Leafy Greens (Lettuce, Mustard, Spinach, and Collards) are popular for their various textures, sweet or pungent flavors, beautiful colors, and nutritional value.