Supplement Absorption. The two most recommended forms of calcium are calcium citrate and calcium carbonate. Calcium citrate is slightly better absorbed because it doesn't require much stomach acid for absorption, but calcium carbonate is well absorbed when taken with food. 
Next to it, the manufacturer indicates how much of it each serving has. Elemental calcium is the amount of the mineral that the supplement provides in a form your body can absorb. Calcium citrate is the most easily absorbed calcium supplement. But it is also the form that contains the least elemental calcium at 21 percent. In addition, calcium citrate interacts adversely with antacids that contain aluminum, creating a toxic condition. Calcium and magnesium are essential for healthy bone and teeth development. Your organs also need both minerals to function properly. Calcium content is more abundant in your body than magnesium. However, your systems cannot absorb the former unless the latter is present. Many foods provide the two nutrients.
For example, calcium carbonate appears to be as well absorbed as the calcium found in. In fact, some studies indicate that calcium carbonate is absorbed as well as most other forms besides calcium citrate/malate (CCM). For example, a recent study found absorption of calcium from calcium carbonate to be virtually identical to absorption of calcium from calcium citrate. For instance, in the calcium carbonate form, calcium accounts for 40% of the compound, while the calcium citrate form provides 24% elemental calcium. Many medical doctors recommend calcium carbonate because it requires the fewest pills to reach a given level of calcium and it is readily available and inexpensive.
Bioavailability refers to the amount of calcium in the supplement that can be assimilated by the digestive system, and ultimately used for cellular activity and health benefits. Calcium Carbonate is currently one of the cheapest and most prevalent forms of calcium supplements sold today. Calcium Lactate. The form of calcium found in foods such as aged cheese and baking powder. This form is the most commonly used antacid and is added to fruits to keep them firm and extend shelflife. It has a medium bioavailablity in the body because it can be absorbed at various pHs. 6
CALCIUM ASPARTATE: is a highly soluble form of calcium, formed by binding calcium and aspartic acid (an amino acid), providing better absorption, assimilation and usage. Aspartic acid is an important amino acid that functions as a transport mechanism delivering the calcium to proper body sites for specific functions. Calcium chelate has higher absorption levels than inorganic salts, such as calcium carbonate, and is retained longer in the body. CALCIUM CITRATE: highly soluble, this type of calcium is formed by binding calcium and citric acid (a form of vitamin C). It is easily absorbed, assimilated and utilized in the body with the dual benefit of usable calcium and vitamin C
Taking a regular-size pill with calcium-fortified orange juice might also be a waste. The calcium in most supplements is either in the form of calcium carbonate or calcium citrate. Research shows that they are absorbed equally well with meals, but calcium carbonate is harder to digest than calcium citrate. People are usually advised to take calcium carbonate with or soon after a meal. Most of the calcium in the American diet comes from dairy products. Not only do they contain a lot of the mineral, but it's in a form that's easy to digest and absorb. An 8-ounce serving of plain yogurt provides about 400 mg of calcium; an 8-ounce glass of milk, 300 mg; and a slice of cheddar cheese, 200 mg.
Dairy. Dairy foods are most often recommended for calcium intake because these foods provide a form of calcium that is easily absorbed by the body (high bioavailability). Additionally, many dairy foods are fortified with vitamin D, which is needed for calcium absorption. Calcium in common dairy foods : 