The monk parakeet, as an invasive species, has become a problem to local fauna such as pigeons and sparrows, but not yet so harmful to magpies. Parakeets have also caused trouble to agriculture near the cities. Barcelona has the greatest population of monk parakeets in Europe with 2500 parakeets as of February 2010. The lifespan of monk parakeets has been given as 15–20 years or as much as 25–30 years; the former might refer to average lifespans in captivity and/or in the wild, while the latter is in the range of maximum lifespans recorded for parakeets.
Authors: General Lavalle, Buenos Aires, Argentina; 16 January 2010 © Christopher Wood. The Monk Parakeet is a noisy, green-and-gray parrot of open country in southern South America. It occurs from southern Bolivia and southern Brazil south through central Argentina. This species is green overall, with a gray face and breast, blue primaries and outer secondaries, and a flesh-colored bill.
Subfamily: Arinae. Identification: The Monk parakeet is a parrot of average size, reaching a length of about 29cm (11 1/2 inches) from head to tip of tail. Both females and males have a bright green body, gray forehead, cheeks and breast, blue-black flight feathers, gray legs and a rosy, pale orange or yellow beak. Benefits: Monk parakeets positively play on the psychology of the inhabitants of the areas they have invaded, since most of these places are cities which contain very little wildlife. These gregarious, bright birds add a natural element to city streets, which often support little plant and animal life.
Denise Kelly: Monk parrots (Myiopsitta monachus), also called Quaker or Monk Parakeets, are native to South America, ranging from central Bolivia to southern Brazil, Uruguay, and southern and central Argentina. Tens of thousands have been imported for the U.S. pet trade. Issues surrounding non-native and naturalized species such as Monk parrots (Myiopsitta monachus), also known as Quaker or Monk Parakeets, in the U.S. are complex and sometimes controversial.
Threat(s): In South America, the parakeet is considered a major agriculture pest, where flocks devour cereal grain and citrus fruits. In the United States, the bird is not yet an agricultural threat and an ongoing debate exists as to whether or not it even has the potential of becoming a pest. Benefits: Monk parakeets positively play on the psychology of the inhabitants of the areas they have invaded, since most of these places are cities which contain very little wildlife. These gregarious, bright birds add a natural element to city streets, which often support little plant and animal life.
The monk parakeet (Myiopsitta monachus), also known as the quaker parrot, is a small, bright-green parrot with a greyish breast and greenish-yellow abdomen. The lifespan of monk parakeets has been given as 15–20 years or as much as 25–30 years; the former might refer to average lifespans in captivity and/or in the wild, while the latter is in the range of maximum lifespans recorded for parakeets.
Distribution of the Monk Parakeet in North America. Native of South America from central Bolivia and southern Brazil south to central Argentina, the Monk Parakeet is popular as a pet bird in the United States. In North America, free-flying Monk Parakeets (escapees) date back to the 1960s. The Monk Parakeet or Quaker Parrot (Myiopsitta monachus) is a species of parrot, the only member of the monotypic genus Myiopsitta.
Female pet monk parakeet. The nominate subspecies of this parakeet is 29 cm (11 in) long on average, with a 48 cm (19 in) wingspan, and weighs 100 g (3.5 oz). Females tend to be 10–20% smaller, but can only be reliably sexed by DNA or feather testing. It has bright-green upperparts. The lifespan of monk parakeets has been given as 15–20 years or as much as 25–30 years; the former might refer to average lifespans in captivity and/or in the wild, while the latter is in the range of maximum lifespans recorded for parakeets.
Small populations have also been seen in California, South Carolina, Bedfordshire and Alfreton, England, Amsterdam, Paris, Italy, Belgium, Spain and the Canary Islands. Site and Date of Introduction: It is unknown how long the Monk parakeet has been in the United States due to the pet trade. Benefits: Monk parakeets positively play on the psychology of the inhabitants of the areas they have invaded, since most of these places are cities which contain very little wildlife. These gregarious, bright birds add a natural element to city streets, which often support little plant and animal life.