BGP may be used for routing within an autonomous system. In this application it is referred to as Interior Border Gateway Protocol, Internal BGP, or iBGP. In contrast, the Internet application of the protocol may be referred to as Exterior Border Gateway Protocol, External BGP, or EBGP. A BGP router used only for a network with a single point of entry to the Internet may have a much smaller routing table size (and hence RAM and CPU requirement) than a multihomed network. Even simple multihoming can have modest routing table size.
BGP is used to exchange routing information for the Internet and is the protocol used between Internet service providers (ISP). Customer networks, such as universities and corporations, usually employ an Interior Gateway Protocol (IGP) such as RIP or OSPF for the exchange of routing information within their networks. Introduction. BGP is a very robust and scalable routing protocol, as evidenced by the fact that BGP is the routing protocol employed on the Internet. At the time of this writing, the Internet BGP routing tables number more than 90,000 routes.
BGP (Border Gateway Protocol) is a protocol for exchanging routing information between gateway host s (each with its own router) in a network of autonomous system s. BGP is often the protocol used between gateway hosts on the Internet. The routing table contains a list of known routers, the addresses they can reach, and a cost metric associated with the path to each router so that the best available route is chosen.
1 The current version of BGP is BGP version 4, based on RFC4271. 2  BGP is the path-vector protocol that provides routing information for autonomous systems on the Internet via its AS-Path attribute. 3  BGP is a Layer 4 protocol that sits on top of TCP. BGP basics. 1 
1 BGP is the path-vector protocol that provides routing information for autonomous systems on the Internet via its AS-Path attribute. 2  BGP is a Layer 4 protocol that sits on top of TCP. 3  It is much simpler than OSPF, because it doesn’t have to worry about the things TCP will handle. BGP basics. 1  The current version of BGP is BGP version 4, based on RFC4271. 2 
BGP is the exterior gateway protocol that conveys information between routers when connecting to the internet. The routers are owned by different autonomous systems (AS); the separate ownership of routers is how the web is “worldwide”. These AS routers are called gateway hosts. This is because BGP is not very compatible with the Interior Gateway Protocol (IGP). BGP is the replacement for the Exterior Gateway Protocol (EGP). The change to BGP allowed internet protocol to have complete and whole decentralized routing. The newest version of BGP was made in 1994 and is called BPG4
The Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) is an interautonomous system routing protocol. An autonomous system is a network or group of networks under a common administration and with common routing policies. Introduction. BGP is a very robust and scalable routing protocol, as evidenced by the fact that BGP is the routing protocol employed on the Internet. At the time of this writing, the Internet BGP routing tables number more than 90,000 routes.
Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) is a standardized exterior gateway protocol designed to exchange routing and reachability information between autonomous systems (AS) on the Internet. The protocol is often classified as a path vector protocol but is sometimes also classed as a distance-vector routing protocol. The Border Gateway Protocol makes routing decisions based on paths, network policies, or rule-sets configured by a network administrator and is involved in making core routing decisions. A BGP router used only for a network with a single point of entry to the Internet may have a much smaller routing table size (and hence RAM and CPU requirement) than a multihomed network. Even simple multihoming can have modest routing table size.
Hosts using BGP communicate using the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) and send updated router table information only when one host has detected a change. Only the affected part of the routing table is sent. BGP is often the protocol used between gateway hosts on the Internet. The routing table contains a list of known routers, the addresses they can reach, and a cost metric associated with the path to each router so that the best available route is chosen.