The strands of fibrin form a meshwork and trap blood cells and platelets which form into a solid clot. If a blood clot forms within a healthy blood vessel it can cause serious problems. So, there are also chemicals in the blood that prevent clots from forming and chemicals that 'dissolve' clots. There is balance between forming clots and preventing clots. Clotting disorders. Sometimes a blood clot forms within a blood vessel that has not been injured or cut-for example: 1  A blood clot that forms within an artery supplying blood to the heart or brain is the common cause of heart attack and stroke.
• White blood cells, which fight infections. • Platelets, smaller cells that help blood to clot. Blood is conducted through blood vessels (arteries and veins). Blood is prevented from clotting in the blood vessels by their smoothness, and the finely tuned balance of clotting factors. 
Veins are low-pressure vessels that carry deoxygenated blood away from the body's organs and back to the heart. An abnormal clot that forms in a vein may restrict the return of blood to the heart and can result in pain and swelling as the blood gathers behind the clot. Sometimes, however, clots form on the inside of vessels without an obvious injury or do not dissolve naturally. These situations can be dangerous and require accurate diagnosis and appropriate treatment. Clots can occur in veins or arteries, which are vessels that are part of the body's circulatory system.
The lack of platelets and proteins to form a clot prevents the  clotting of blood. This can also happen if there are any bleeding  disorders that prevent clot formation. Edit. Confidence votes 210. There are many things people can do to prevent blood from clotting inside the blood vessels. One of those is making sure you don't sit/laydown very long.
Preventing blood clots. Advice on preventing blood clots at home or in hospital. The formation of a blood clot or 'thrombus' inside a blood vessel is called thrombosis; you may have heard the term DVT or deep vein thrombosis that most commonly occurs in the leg veins. 
The lack of platelets and proteins to form a clot prevents the  clotting of blood. This can also happen if there are any bleeding  disorders that prevent clot formation. Edit. Normally the beginning of a blood clot, platelet plug formation, doesn't occur unless the platelets are exposed to the underlying collagen fibers. That doesn't happen unless t … he blood vessel has been damaged so clots usually only occur in response to a damaged blood vessel. 3 people found this useful.
A thrombus, or colloquially a blood clot, is the final product of the blood coagulation step in hemostasis. There are two components to a thrombus: aggregated platelets that form a platelet plug, and a mesh of cross-linked fibrin protein. The substance making up a thrombus is sometimes called cruor. A thrombus is a healthy response to injury intended to prevent bleeding, but can be harmful in thrombosis, when clots obstruct blood flow through healthy blood vessels. Mural thrombi are thrombi that adhere to the wall of a blood vessel.
Blood Clots. Blood clotting, or coagulation, is an important process that prevents excessive bleeding when a blood vessel is injured. Platelets (a type of blood cell) and proteins in your plasma (the liquid part of blood) work together to stop the bleeding by forming a clot over the injury. Sometimes, however, clots form on the inside of vessels without an obvious injury or do not dissolve naturally. These situations can be dangerous and require accurate diagnosis and appropriate treatment. Clots can occur in veins or arteries, which are vessels that are part of the body's circulatory system.
There are many things people can do to prevent blood from clotting inside the blood vessels. One of those is making sure you don't sit/laydown very long. Normally the beginning of a blood clot, platelet plug formation, doesn't occur unless the platelets are exposed to the underlying collagen fibers. That doesn't happen unless t … he blood vessel has been damaged so clots usually only occur in response to a damaged blood vessel. 3 people found this useful.