Prepare yourself for a lengthy education if you want to become a plastic surgeon. To begin, you will need to complete the same amount of schooling as other surgeons. Your first four years of college require you to study biology, organic and inorganic chemistry, math, and physics, along with your regular core coursework. After you earn your bachelor's degree, your next stop is medical school. 
Primary degree requirements. Prospective surgeons usually need a bachelor’s degree in a scientific field such as biology or chemistry to gain entry to medical school. Courses in the humanities and social sciences are also beneficial. Surgeons are trained physicians who specialize in performing operations intended to prevent or treat serious injuries and illnesses. A surgeon may work as a general surgeon or focus on orthopedic surgery, neurological surgery and cardiovascular surgery, among other specialties.
Well a doctorate for a doctor. Typically, you enter college and get your bachelors degree, and then 6-8 years of medical school to be a doctor. However, if you are talking about a non medicinal degree then its a PhD. You get this by first getting your bachelor, then master, and then PHD. Best Answer: Yes, medical degree IS the answer. Masters and Ph.D. have nothing to do with it. Four years of college, majoring in a science, or at least completing all the pre-requisite science/math. Take the MCATs.
General surgeons. Once a medical degree has been completed, a surgeon is required to complete an internship and residency program with focus on general surgical procedures or within a specific area of surgery. Surgeons are trained physicians who specialize in performing operations intended to prevent or treat serious injuries and illnesses. A surgeon may work as a general surgeon or focus on orthopedic surgery, neurological surgery and cardiovascular surgery, among other specialties.
General surgeons typically require a minimum of 13 years of college, medical school and residency before they can practice, but all that training pays off in the end. CNN Money places general surgeon at No. 2 on its list of the 20 highest paying jobs in America, and at No. 75 on 2010 list of the Best Jobs in America. 
Before surgeons are qualified to operate, they must meet a set of challenging education requirements. These generally include four years of undergraduate study, four years of medical school leading to a Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) degree and 3-8 years of surgical residency at a hospital. 
Education. All physicians, including surgeons, must first complete an undergraduate degree program, usually in a science area such as biology or chemistry. Following undergraduate school, you then must complete four years of medical school and a three-year residency. 
Prospective surgeons are required to complete a general medical degree program at a medical school before undertaking specialist training in clinical settings. The first two years of medical school are conducted via classroom tuition and laboratory training. Surgeons are trained physicians who specialize in performing operations intended to prevent or treat serious injuries and illnesses. A surgeon may work as a general surgeon or focus on orthopedic surgery, neurological surgery and cardiovascular surgery, among other specialties.
To be a transplant surgeon, a proper medical school degree from an  accredited medical school such as a Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine  (D.O.) degree, a Doctor of Medicine (… M.D.) degree, or a Bachelor of  Medicine/Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS/MBChB) degree is required. Answer   In order to become an oral surgeon, you need to attend dental school, which usually requires a bachelor's degree. From dental schools, you need to obtain … your Doctor of Dental Surgery or Doctor of Dental Medicine degree.
High School Diploma. Overall, the high school years create the foundation for the 13 or more years of study needed to become a general surgeon. The 13 years of medical study typically includes four years of undergraduate studies, four years of doctoral degree studies and five years of residency. General surgeons are some of the most highly educated professionals in the world. College, medical school and residency can take a minimum of 13 years to complete.