Curry leaves are known by different names all over the world, for instance, in Germany they are known as curryblatter, in Spanish – Hoja and in French – Feuilles de cari. The leaves are the part of the shrub that are primarily used – whether to simply extract the essential oils or in order to add to food preparations. Curry leaves are probably most widely known for their popularity when it comes to food preparations, especially the Indian dishes.
Email. Curry leaves are an herb native to South Asia, unrelated to the ground spice mix called curry powder. They're an essential component of South Indian cooking, adding a subtle aroma to simple dishes and complexity to highly spiced ones, Rasam explains on Chowhound. Avoid dried curry leaves, which have no flavor or aroma. You can grow your own, either outdoors or in a large pot near a sunny window. Just be sure you're planting a curry leaf plant (Murraya koenigii) and not the unrelated curry plant (Helichrysum italicum).
The main nutrients found in curry leaves are carbohydrates, energy, fiber, calcium, phosphorous, iron, magnesium, copper and minerals. It also contains various vitamins like nicotinic acid and vitamin C, vitamin A, vitamin B, vitamin E, antioxidants, plant sterols, amino acids, glycosides and flavonoids. Research on curry leaves has indicated that the tannins and carbazole alkaloids present in curry leaves exhibited good hepato-protective properties. They are also helpful in protecting the liver from various diseases such as hepatitis and cirrhosis. Skin care: Curry leaves are also helpful in skin care.
This article is about Murraya koenigii or Bergera koenigii, a tree which produces an aromatic leaf often used in Indian cuisine. For the European plant sometimes referred to as curry plant, see Helichrysum italicum. The curry tree (Murraya koenigii or Bergera koenigii) is a tropical to sub-tropical tree in the family Rutaceae (the rue family, which includes rue, citrus, and satinwood), which is native to India and Sri Lanka. Although most commonly used in curries, leaves from the curry tree can be used in many other dishes to add flavor. In Cambodia, Khmer toast the leaves in an open flame or roast it until crispy and then crush it into a soured soup dish called Maju Krueng.
Curry leaves are often available fresh at Indian markets, and freeze well—no need to defrost before cooking with them. Avoid dried curry leaves, which have no flavor or aroma. You can grow your own, either outdoors or in a large pot near a sunny window. Just be sure you're planting a curry leaf plant (Murraya koenigii) and not the unrelated curry plant (Helichrysum italicum).
29,168 pages onthis wiki. A Curry leaf is a large, yellow-green leaf which can be picked off a curry tree grown from a curry tree seed in a fruit tree patch using the Farming skill. Level 42 Farming is required to grow curry trees. Farmers require 5 baskets of bananas as payment to watch over a curry tree. 
Welcome to the Curry Leaf! Welcome to the “Curry Leaf” Restaurant and Catering, located in the heart of Laurel, Maryland. We offer a wide variety of authentic Indian food, specializing in traditional South Indian dishes. Please explore our menu and come visit us today for your next meal. 
Curry leaves are the shiny, dark green, aromatic leaves of a tree from the citrus fruit family that release a deliciously nutty aroma when fried in hot oil. A staple of South Indian cooking, curry leaves are used in Indian and South East Asian cuisine in the same way as bay leaves are used in the West.
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. Curry leaves are the leaves of the curry tree, also known as Murraya koenigii. These leaves are used extensively in Southeast Asian cooking, adding a very distinct flavor and aroma to an assortment of dishes. While the leaves can certainly be used in curries and even with curry powder, they can also be used on their own in a variety of soups, stews, chutneys, and so forth. At first glance, one could be forgiven for confusing curry and bay leaves.
Curry leaves in a tree in Assam. It is a small tree, growing 4–6 m (13–20 feet) tall, with a trunk up to 40 cm (16 in) diameter. The aromatic leaves are pinnate, with 11-21 leaflets, each leaflet 2–4 cm (0.79–1.57 in) long and 1–2 cm (0.39–0.79 in) broad. Although most commonly used in curries, leaves from the curry tree can be used in many other dishes to add flavor. In Cambodia, Khmer toast the leaves in an open flame or roast it until crispy and then crush it into a soured soup dish called Maju Krueng.