If a business owner has limited liability, it means that he or she is not personally responsible for business debts and obligations of the corporation. In other words, if the corporation is sued, only the assets of the business are at risk, not the owners' (shareholders) personal assets, such as their houses or cars. Limited liability, traditionally associated with corporations, is the main reason most people consider incorporating. However, other business structures, such as limited liability companies (LLCs), now offer this limited personal liability to business owners. Sole proprietorships and general partnerships do not.
by BusinessDictionary. A Limited Liability Company, also known as an LLC, is a type of business structure that combines traits of both a sole-proprietorship and a corporation. An LLC is eligible for the pass-through taxation feature of a partnership or sole proprietorship, while at the same time limiting the liability of the owners, similar to a corporation. As the LLC is not considered a separate entity, the company does not pay taxes or take on losses.
Limited liability is where a person's financial liability is limited to a fixed sum, most commonly the value of a person's investment in a company or partnership. A shareholder in a limited company is not personally liable for any of the debts of the company, other than for the value of their investment in that company.
A Limited Liability Company (LLC) is a hybrid business entity having certain characteristics of both a corporation and a partnership or sole proprietorship (depending on how many owners there are). An LLC, although a business entity, is a type of unincorporated association and is not a corporation. A limited liability company (LLC) is the United States-specific form of a private limited company.
In a partnership, the limited partners have limited liability, while the general partner has unlimited liability. The limited liability feature protects the investor's or partner's personal assets from the risk of being seized to satisfy creditor claims in the event of the company's or partnership's insolvency. Next Up.
A limited liability company, commonly called an LLC, is a business structure that combines the pass-through taxation of a partnership or sole proprietorship with the limited liability of a corporation. Like owners of a corporation, however, all LLC owners are protected from personal liability for business debts and claims -- a feature known as limited liability.. This means that if the business owes money or faces a lawsuit, only the assets of the business itself are at risk.
A type of liability that does not exceed the amount invested in a partnership or limited liability company. The limited liability feature is one of the biggest advantages of investing in publicly listed companies. The limited liability feature protects the investor's or partner's personal assets from the risk of being seized to satisfy creditor claims in the event of the company's or partnership's insolvency. Next Up.
The same is true for the members of a limited liability partnership and the limited partners in a limited partnership. By contrast, sole proprietors and partners in general partnerships are each liable for all the debts of the business (unlimited liability). A shareholder in a limited company is not personally liable for any of the debts of the company, other than for the value of their investment in that company.
A noncorporate business whose owners actively participate in the organization's management and are protected against personal liability for the organization's debts and obligations. The limited liability company (LLC) is a hybrid legal entity that has both the characteristics of a corporation and of a partnership. An LLC provides its owners with corporate-like protection against personal liability. It is, however, usually treated as a noncorporate business organization for tax purposes. State LLC statutes specifically provide that members of an LLC are not personally liable for the LLC's debts and obligations. This limited liability is similar to the liability protection for corporate shareholders, partners in a limited partnership, and partners in a limited liability
Although a shareholder's liability for the company's actions is limited, the shareholders may still be liable for their own acts. For example, the directors of small companies (who are frequently also shareholders) are often required to give personal guarantees of the company's debts to those lending to the company. A shareholder in a limited company is not personally liable for any of the debts of the company, other than for the value of their investment in that company.