For the first two years after Dr. James Naismith invented basketball in 1891, soccer balls were used as the balls. In 1894, the first basketball was manufactured and made of laced leather. The molded version of a basketball was invented in 1948 and for about 50 years almost all basketballs were made of genuine leather. In the early 1990s, the first balls made of high-tech composite leathers began to appear.
A lining of cloth was added to the outside to support the leather. The first molded ball was invented in 1942 and this meant there was no longer a need for stitching the ball. At this time a basketball was still made of an inner rubber bladder which was covered in leather with a small hole for inflating the ball. The earliest basketball drew inspiration from the soccer balls of the time. It was made out of leather panels that were stitched together to form a ball. Inside of this was a rubber bladder that provided the necessary inflation.
Spalding was the first company to produce a basketball for official use. Company founder A.G. Spalding made the first dedicated basketball in the last years of the 19th century at the behest of James Naismith. It has produced basketballs since that time and has produced the NBA’s official game ball since 1983. A cloth lining was added to the leather for support and uniformity (identity). A molded version of the early basketball was invented in 1942. From 1967 through 1976, the American Basketball Association (ABA) used a distinctive red, white and blue basketball that is still seen from time to time.
Dr. James Naismith was a Canadian physical education instructor who invented the game of basketball in 1891 while working at the YMCA Training School in Springfield, Massachusetts. Using a soccer ball, two peach baskets placed 10 feet up in the air, nine players on each team and a set of 13 basic rules, Dr. Naismith invented the game of “basket ball.” The first game was played on December 21, 1891.
The game was invented by physical education teacher James Naismith as a way to keep athletes fit over the winter months. The first ever game of basketball was played with a soccer ball, but a custom made ball was soon manufactured for the game. The materials and techniques for producing has undergone many changes throughout the years. The earliest basketball drew inspiration from the soccer balls of the time. It was made out of leather panels that were stitched together to form a ball. Inside of this was a rubber bladder that provided the necessary inflation.
Although basketball was born in the United States, five of Naismith's original players were Canadians, and the game spread to Canada immediately. It was played in France by 1893; England in 1894; Australia, China, and India between 1895 and 1900; and Japan in 1900. From 1891 through 1893, a soccer ball was used to play basketball. The first basketball was manufactured in 1894. It was 32 in (81 cm) in circumference, or about 4 in (10 cm) larger than a soccer ball. The dedicated basketball was made of laced leather and weighed less than 20 oz (567 g). The first molded ball that eliminated the need for laces was introduced in 1948; its construction and size of 30 in (76 cm) were ruled official in 1949. The rule-setters came from several groups early in the 1900s
Spalding was the first company to produce a basketball for official use. Spalding is the official ball of the NBA and has made the genuine leather NBA models since 1983. Spalding also makes composite balls used in high school and some college play. Wilson, based in Chicago, is the official ball of the NCAA. The molded version of a basketball was invented in 1948 and for about 50 years almost all basketballs were made of genuine leather. In the early 1990s, the first balls made of high-tech composite leathers began to appear.
The round hoop is made of steel, the netting is a woven nylon fiber. The first basket for basketball was literally a basket. A peach basket to be specific. A ladder was used to retrieve the ball after a shot was made. 