Viral Pink Eye. Pink eye caused by a virus (viral conjunctivitis) can begin to get better within days, although symptoms can get worse for four to seven days before improving. Symptoms may continue for up to three weeks, with morning crusting usually lasting longer than the daytime redness, irritation, and tearing. Allergic Pink Eye. Pink eye from allergies (allergic conjunctivitis) may start to get better within 24 hours of the removal of the allergen (a normally harmless substance that can cause an allergic reaction in some people) or with treatment.
Viral pinkeye symptoms usually last 5 to 7 days but may last up to 3 weeks and can become ongoing or chronic. Pinkeye may be more serious if you: 1  Have a condition that decreases your body's ability to fight infection (impaired immune system). It usually is not serious and goes away in 7 to 10 days without medical treatment. Most cases of pinkeye are caused by: 1  Infections caused by viruses or bacteria. 2  Dry eyes from lack of tears or exposure to wind and sun. 3  Chemicals, fumes, or smoke (chemical conjunctivitis).
Pink eye (conjunctivitis) generally remains contagious as long as your child is experiencing tearing and matted eyes. Signs and symptoms of pink eye usually improve within three to seven days. When tearing and matted eyes are no longer present, it's appropriate for a child to return to school or child care. If the pink eye is caused by a bacterial infection, treatment with antibiotic drops or ointment for the eyes may be necessary.
How long pink eye lasts depends on what caused it. Common pink eye symptoms can last anywhere from a few days to a few weeks. Many types of pink eye are contagious, but only after the symptoms emerge. It appears people are not contagious during the incubation period of pink eye  the time of up to a few days between when they are exposed and when the symptoms begin. If your pink eye is caused by a common viral infection and no other complications occur, then your eyes should clear up within a few days to two weeks.
Pink eye also can be caused by bacterial conjunctivitis, which  even with treatment such as prescription antibiotic eye drops  can last up to a month or longer. However, with this type of pink eye, people should no longer be contagious 24 hours after antibiotic treatment begins. It appears people are not contagious during the incubation period of pink eye  the time of up to a few days between when they are exposed and when the symptoms begin. If your pink eye is caused by a common viral infection and no other complications occur, then your eyes should clear up within a few days to two weeks.
Most cases of bacterial conjunctivitis improve quickly after starting antibiotics for pink eye treatment. Within 24 to 48 hours, redness, irritation, and eye discharge should begin to improve. Even as symptoms improve, you should continue to take your antibiotics for the full course. Allergic Pink Eye. Allergic Pink Eye. Pink eye from allergies (allergic conjunctivitis) may start to get better within 24 hours of the removal of the allergen (a normally harmless substance that can cause an allergic reaction in some people) or with
A typical viral conjunctivitis begins in one eye and spreads to the other eye within a week. It usually takes approximately 5 to 10 days to resolve. Bacterial conjunctivitis usually requires treatment with antibiotics. The time it takes to resolve varies depending on the organism. 
Viral conjunctivitis usually runs its course in one to two weeks. Because it is not caused by bacteria, viral conjunctivitis does not respond to antibiotics. Artificial tears will also help relieve symptoms. For bacterial conjunctivitis, the treatment will probably call for antibiotic eye drops or ointment. It usually is not serious and goes away in 7 to 10 days without medical treatment. Most cases of pinkeye are caused by: 1  Infections caused by viruses or bacteria. 2  Dry eyes from lack of tears or exposure to wind and sun. 3  Chemicals, fumes, or smoke (chemical conjunctivitis).
Viral Conjunctivitis. Most cases of viral conjunctivitis are mild. The infection will usually clear up in 7–14 days without treatment and without any long-term consequences. In some cases, viral conjunctivitis can take 2-3 weeks or more to clear up, especially if complications arise. The treatment for conjunctivitis depends on the cause. It is not always necessary to see a healthcare provider for conjunctivitis. But, as noted below, there are times when it is important to seek medical care.
In this case, you need up to 24 hours for the eye drops or ointment to start working and for the infected person to no longer be contagious. If the source of the pink eye is viral, then the infection will need to run its course. In this case, you can relieve symptoms with lubricating eye drops to soothe irritation. 