English desert and its Romance cognates (including Italian and Portuguese deserto, French desert désert And spanish) desierto all come from the Ecclesiastical latin (dēsertum originally an abandoned), place a participle of, dēserere to. abandon Deserts take up about one third of the Earth's land surface. Bottomlands may be salt-covered flats. Eolian processes are major factors in shaping desert landscapes. Polar deserts (also seen as cold deserts) have similar features, except the main form of precipitation is snow rather than rain.
Desert Geological Terms. About one-third of the earth's landmass is desert or semi-desert. These regions have unique geologic features not found in more humid environments. These features are most often caused by wind and water erosion in the stark desert environment
By Matt Rosenberg. Deserts, also known as arid lands, are regions that receive less than 10 inches of precipitation a year and have little vegetation. Deserts occupy about one-fifth of the land on Earth and appear on every continent. While a desert might have an annual average of five inches of precipitation, that precipitation may come in the form of three inches one year, none the next, 15 inches the third, and two inches the fourth.
Definitions of Important Geologial Features. About one-third of the earth's landmass is desert or semi-desert. These regions have unique geologic features not found in more humid environments. These features are most often caused by wind and water erosion in the stark desert environment
Officially a desert is an area that gets less than 10 inches of precipitation a year. Deserts don't necessarily have to be hot. Some of the world's largest deserts are cold deserts located at one of the Earths poles or in a cold area of the world. One thing is for sure, deserts are dry and barren places. Go here for more information on the desert habitat.
This is the world's largest desert and is located at the South Pole. Basically the entire continent of Antarctica is considered a desert because it gets very little precipitation. The Arctic desert covers the North Pole. They are both called polar deserts. Some of the world's largest deserts are cold deserts located at one of the Earths poles or in a cold area of the world. One thing is for sure, deserts are dry and barren places. Go here for more information on the desert habitat.
A desert is a barren area of land where little precipitation occurs and consequently living conditions are hostile for plant and animal life. The lack of vegetation exposes the unprotected surface of the ground to the processes of denudation. About one third of the land surface of the world is arid or semi-arid. Deserts take up about one third of the Earth's land surface. Bottomlands may be salt-covered flats. Eolian processes are major factors in shaping desert landscapes. Polar deserts (also seen as cold deserts) have similar features, except the main form of precipitation is snow rather than rain.
The little precipitation and rain that falls in deserts is usually erratic and varies from year to year. While a desert might have an annual average of five inches of precipitation, that precipitation may come in the form of three inches one year, none the next, 15 inches the third, and two inches the fourth. Thus, in arid environments, the annual average tells little about actual rainfall
A desert is a region of land that is very dry because it receives low amounts of precipitation (usually in the form of rain but may be snow, mist or fog), often has little coverage by plants, and in which streams dry up unless they are supplied by water from outside the area. Deserts take up about one third of the Earth's land surface. Bottomlands may be salt-covered flats. Eolian processes are major factors in shaping desert landscapes. Polar deserts (also seen as cold deserts) have similar features, except the main form of precipitation is snow rather than rain.