There's nothing you can do. If he has indeed deposited the check, it would appear on your account fairly quickly-I've never seen it taking more than 2-3 business days. However, a check is a debt instrument, and you cannot close the account until it clears, or until the unclaimed property laws of your state kick in. 
There has been a LOT of fraud lately with cashier's checks and money orders. If it's drawn on a major national bank with offices near where the recipient lives it should clear in a day or so. However many checks from obscure local banks can take weeks to clear in some cases. The fraudsters have become so good with their fake checks that it's possible to take as long as 20 days or more for a bogus cashier's check to bounce. Most clear (or reject) within 3 to 5 days but I've had a couple take nearly 20 days to confirm as paid. And one bad one didn't come back for 23 days.
The exact time it takes for a check to clear depends on bank policies and the nature of the deposit. Most national banks promise that deposited checks will clear and post to your account either the same day or the next business day. If the account is less than 30 days old, the check may take a few extra days to clear.
well when we receive cashier's checks at my job we submit them to the bank within 24 hours and it clears almost immediately because it is called certified funds basically meaning whatever bank you got it from is stating that there is no way for that check to bounce. Most clear (or reject) within 3 to 5 days but I've had a couple take nearly 20 days to confirm as paid. And one bad one didn't come back for 23 days.
Found This Helpful. When you deposit a check into your bank account, it can take several days before your bank actually receives the money represented by the check. Consequently, banks can place a hold on your account in order to prevent you from spending money that your bank has yet to receive. 
How long does it take Wells Fargo to clear a check? The time it takes for Wells Fargo to clear a check depends on the history of the person who wrote the check, how much the check was written for and the time or the year the ch … eck was written. 
If your deposit is cash, a money order, a certified check, a check from an account at the same or another branch of your bank or credit union, or a check from the government, you can withdraw or use the full amount on the next business day if you make the deposit in person to a bank employee. 
For other checks, banks must similarly make the 1st $100 available the day after you deposit the check. Remaining funds must be made available on the 2nd day after the deposit if payable by a local bank, and within 5 days if drawn on distant banks. Certified check. An officer of the bank has certified on the check that good funds were available in the amount of the check at the time the check was originated and that the signature on the check is genuine. The bank then sets aside the funds and will only use these funds to pay the c
Under federal law, banks must make funds available to you from U.S. Treasury checks, official bank checks (cashier's checks, certified checks and teller's checks), and checks paid by government agencies at the opening of business the day after you deposit the check. Certified check. An officer of the bank has certified on the check that good funds were available in the amount of the check at the time the check was originated and that the signature on the check is genuine. The bank then sets aside the funds and will only use these funds to pay the c
The reality is that it is very hard to determine exactly when a check will clear fully. When you deposit checks through a bank teller, the teller can immediately tell you how long the bank will place a hold on your check deposit. But, while you wait for check funds to clear, each of the banks make an effort to provide at least some access to the check funds. At least the first $200 of the check deposit will be available on the first business day after the day of your deposit. Citibank. The first $200 of your total deposits will be available immediately on the business day of the deposit.