Dentistry & Dental Implants Abroad. Private dentistry costs can prove to be prohibitively expensive in the United Kingdom, which means that many UK patients are considering having their dental treatment abroad. If you choose to use a dentist abroad, you’ll find that significant savings can be made. There are many different treatments available abroad, including dental implants, crowns, bridges and veneers. You can make significant savings on the costs of both restorative and cosmetic dental treatment when you travel to Europe.
Dental treatment abroad costs. With access to affordable NHS dentistry becoming increasingly difficult and the costs of private dentistry becoming prohibitively expensive, a significant number of people in the UK are now seeking dental treatment abroad.
The Placement of Dental Implants abroad. The placement of dental implants requires 2 visits to our clinic. During your initial visit, which will last between 3 to 5 days, we will perform your free initial consultation. There you will meet our dentists and we will finalise your treatment plan.
Unfortunately the prices in UK are extremely high compared to other countries specially in Eastern Europe. Usually by going for dental implants abroad you can save up to 70% than UK without compromise of the quality. Many times the dentists in Eastern Europe countries like Bulgaria have better experience and qualification in dental implants field that their colleagues in UK. The reason is quite simple-because they are putting more implants every month and year. Full mouth teeth implants procedure. At 2010, a study showed that travels for dental tourism were getting increasingly popular in UK – probably due to the recession.
Cost of Dental Implants Abroad. The cost of dental implants abroad depend on what type of dental treatment you require. The implant solutions vary depending on your circumstances. In all cases, an Initial Consultation at our Clinic would first be necessary for our dental team to make an accurate assessment of your situation. This Initial Consultation is Free of Charge.
Dental Implants Abroad cost £785. If you are considering dental implants abroad you have probably been researching clinics, implant prices, guarantees and the countries that you could travel to. When considering dental implants abroad at Kreativ Dental you always need to factor in 2 return flights to Budapest (approx £225) and the accommodation costs (approx £300). After factoring in these costs our patients still regularly save between 50% and 70% compared to the quotes they receive in the UK
MONEY You can literally save over 100% compared to Dental Implant prices in the UK and up to 70% off European costs by having your treatment abroad. More detailed information related to the full costs of your Dental Implants are shown below. Turkey is only a 3 hour flight from the UK and Europe. cheap, cheap, turkey, dental, implant. Implants are cheap in Turkey compared to Europe. You may ask yourself why Implants are cheap in Turkey. The reason is clear. When you compare dental costs abroad for dental implants you will see lots of cheap prices. In Turkey and more importantly in our clinic the costs are lower we buy Implants in bulk from the supplier. Some of our implants are manufactured in Turkey too