As one of the quieter Nassau beaches, Caves Beach offers you the chance to really relax and enjoy your time along the shore. You could spread out a blanket and enjoy a picnic and a good book. The fish fry is the favorite of many beachcombers. Whatever your plans, Caves Beach in Nassau Bahamas is a short taxi ride away from the hotels and resorts along the northern shores. Before you get going, you’ll want to plan ahead and pack everything you need for your time at the beach.
About. Caves Beach is well known for its namesake-a network of sea caves at the southern end of the beach, which can be explored at low tide. Caves Beach has well maintained barbecue facilities and a picnic area. Bring the family down to Caves Beach for a great day out. 
Caves Beach in Nassau Bahamas looks amazing both above and below the surface. This small crescent-shaped beach is a quiet retreat from the everyday hassles; like many of the island beaches, Caves Beach is long on beauty and short on pretension. The fish fry is the favorite of many beachcombers. Whatever your plans, Caves Beach in Nassau Bahamas is a short taxi ride away from the hotels and resorts along the northern shores. Before you get going, you’ll want to plan ahead and pack everything you need for your time at the beach.
You can expect to enjoy beautiful beaches, sandy inlets and fantastic fishing opportunities at Caves Beach and Swansea. Caves Beach and Swansea provide a link between the ocean and the Lake and are popular holiday destinations, particularly for water enthusiasts. 
Caves Beach. Caves Beach Bahamas offers everything you’d expect from Bahamas beaches —soft white sand, palm trees, and clear blue waters, all without the crowds. The fish fry is the favorite of many beachcombers. Whatever your plans, Caves Beach in Nassau Bahamas is a short taxi ride away from the hotels and resorts along the northern shores. Before you get going, you’ll want to plan ahead and pack everything you need for your time at the beach.
Historical Caves, located at the Northern end of Caves Beach. There is excellent local fishing from the rocks, break walls, headlands and beaches, and with easy access to the mouth of Lake Macquarie this is the perfect location for anglers. Boats are available for hire for cruising and fishing on the Lake. Caves Beach Holiday Villa is located at Caves Beach on the central coast of NSW. Only 1.5 hours drive from Sydney, Caves Beach is an ideal surfing beach and holiday destination located south of Swansea Heads and directly east of Lake Macquarie.
Lawson is a active patrolling member of Caves Beach SLSC. He also competes at local, Stat ... e and Australian Championships in the Under 17 Age division. He specialises in completion on the beach (Sprints and Beach Flags). He also competes in Team events where possible with mates from Caves. See More. Evening All, The IRB racing season kicks off this weekend and it's at Caves Beach! We've all seen the IRB crews driving in and out and cruising around out the back but unless you've been to an IRB carnival you have not seen an IRB in action.
Caves Beach. Caves Beach is also located near Nassau and is one of the best beaches in Bahamas if you are looking to get away form all the tourist. It is a taxi ride away about 15 minutes and doesn't have to many services like restaurant or bars so pack a lunch with you. Cabbage beach in Nassau is located near Paradise beach. The beach is long and has lots of room to lay out and catch the sun. You will often see people just laying out on the beach even sleeping there from having to ruff of a night before from a party in the nearby hotels.