[mjəma]), mjəmà officially The republic of The union Of myanmar and also known As (/burma/ ˈBɜRMə-bur), mə is a sovereign state In Southeast asia bordered By, Bangladesh, India, China laos And. thailand 
The Republic of the Union of Myanmar, formerly known as Burma, is a nation in Southeast Asia. Myanmar shares borders with China, Thailand, India, Laos, and Bangladesh, as well as the Bay of Bengal and the Andaman Sea. The capital of Myanmar is Naypyidaw, which is located in the Mandalay region of the country. Myanmar is separated into seven states and seven regions. The states of Myanmar are Kachin, Kayah, Kayin, Chin, Mon, Rakhine, and Shan. Each of these states is primarily home to a particular ethnic minority of Myanmar.
Destination Myanmar. Myanmar is a country in Southeast Asia, also known as Burma, its also called the Golden Land. With an area of 676,578 km² the country is almost twice the size of Germany or slightly smaller than the U.S. state of Texas
ESTIMATED 2000 POPULATION: 50,438,300. LOCATION & GEOGRAPHY: Myanmar is located on the mainland of South East Asia. It is bound by China to the north and northeast, Laos to the east, Thailand to the east and southeast, India to the northwest, Bangladesh to the west and the Andaman Sea to the south. The country can be divided into four topographical zones. 
Myanmar is situated in Southeast Asia and is bordered on the north and north-east by China, on the east and south-east by Laos and Thailand, on the south by the Andaman Sea and the Bay of Bengal and on the west by Bangladesh and India. General Information. Geographical Location. Myanmar is located in South East Asia bordering the People's Republic of China on the North and North East, Laos on the East, Thailand on the South East, Bangladesh on the West and India on the North West. It is also strategically located between South Asia and South East As
Yangon is located in Lower Burma (Myanmar) at the convergence of the Yangon and Bago Rivers about 30 km(19 mi) away from the Gulf of Martaban at 16°48' North, 96°09' East (16.8, 96.15). Its standard time zone is UTC/GMT +6:30 hours. 
Location. Myanmar is situated in southeast Asia and is bordered on the north and northeast by China; on the east and southeast by Laos and Thailand; on the south by the Andaman Sea and the Bay of Bengal; and on the west by Bangladesh and India. Neighbouring Countries. Myanmar has many neighbouring countries, Bangladesh is located in the West, India in the Northwest, China in the Northeast, Laos and Thailand in the East.
Situated between Indian and Thailand, Burma is a southeast Asian nation. From the borders of India and China in the north, the country extends into the Andaman Sea and the Bay of Bengal in the south. The country also shares borders with Laos and Bangladesh. 
Burma is located in southeastern Asia. Burma is bordered by the Bay of Bengal and the Andaman Sea, Bangladesh and India to the north, China, Thailand, and Laos to the east. Bangladesh, China, India, Laos, Thailand