1 In Word 2010 and 2013, select the group you want to add items to from the Customize the Ribbon list. 2  You can add menu items only to groups you created, which are identified in the list with the label “(Custom)” after the group's name. 3  In Word 2003, select the menu you want to customize from the Categories list. Select the menu/group that you want to add items to. 1  In Word 2010 and 2013, select the group you want to add items to from the Customize the Ribbon list. 2  In Word 2003, select the menu you want to customize from the Categories list.
To Add a New Menu. 1  On the Tools menu, click Customize. 2  Click the Commands tab. 3  In the Categories list, click New Menu. 4  In the Commands list, click New Menu. 5  Drag New Menu from the Commands list to the menu bar. 6  Release the mouse button when you see a vertical bar indicating the position of the new menu. 1 In the Toolbars list, click Menu Bar. 2  Do not click to clear the Menu Bar check box. 3  Click Reset. 4  Word displays the Reset Toolbar dialog box with the following message: 5  NOTE: If you are making changes to the menus of a custom template, make sure that your custom template name appears in this message.
On the Format pop-up menu, click Word Template (.dotx) . In the Save As box, type the name that you want to use for the new template, and then click Save. Unless you select a different location, the template is saved in /Users/ username /Library/Application Support/Microsoft/Office/User Templates/My Templates. Use a template to create a new document. On the Standard toolbar, click New from template. In the left navigation pane, under TEMPLATES, click My Templates. Note If you created folders to organize your templates, the folders are displayed under
1 In the Categories list, click New Menu. 2  In the Commands list, click New Menu. 3  Drag New Menu from the Commands list to the menu bar. 4  Release the mouse button when you see a vertical bar indicating the position of the new menu. 5  Right-click New Menu on the menu bar, type a name in the Name box, and then press ENTER. 1 In the Toolbars list, click Menu Bar. 2  Do not click to clear the Menu Bar check box. 3  Click Reset. 4  Word displays the Reset Toolbar dialog box with the following message: 5  NOTE: If you are making changes to the menus of a custom template, make sure that your custom template name appears in this message.
Choose a Template. With your menu requirements in mind, open Microsoft Word. Click “File” and click “New” to begin creating a new document from a template. Word presents you with two choices under the Available Templates heading. Click “Sample Templates” to view existing templates already on your computer. 
To Add a New Menu. 1  On the Tools menu, click Customize. 2  Click the Commands tab. 3  In the Categories list, click New Menu. 4  In the Commands list, click New Menu. 5  Drag New Menu from the Commands list to the menu bar. 6  Right-click New Menu on the menu bar, type a name in the Name box, and then press ENTER. 7  Click Close. 1 In the Toolbars list, click Menu Bar. 2  Do not click to clear the Menu Bar check box. 3  Click Reset. 4  Word displays the Reset Toolbar dialog box with the following message: 5  NOTE: If you are making changes to the menus of a custom template, make sure that your custom template name appears in this message.
4. Give your new menu/tab a meaningful name. 1  In Word 2010 and 2013, click the “Rename” button beneath the Customize the Ribbon list to display the Name dialog box. 2  Enter the new name in the “Display name” field and click OK. 3  In Word 2003, right click “New Menu” on the menu bar to display the Name field. Select the menu/group that you want to add items to. 1  In Word 2010 and 2013, select the group you want to add items to from the Customize the Ribbon list. 2  In Word 2003, select the menu you want to customize from the Categories list.
To Add an Item to a Menu. 1  On the Tools menu, click Customize. 2  Click the Commands tab. 3  In the Categories list, click the menu that you want to customize. 4  In the Commands box, click the command that you want to add to the View menu. 5  Drag View Field Codes to the View menu. 6  Click Close. 1 In the Toolbars list, click Menu Bar. 2  Do not click to clear the Menu Bar check box. 3  Click Reset. 4  Word displays the Reset Toolbar dialog box with the following message: 5  NOTE: If you are making changes to the menus of a custom template, make sure that your custom template name appears in this message.
1. Select the menu/group that you want to add items to. 1  In Word 2010 and 2013, select the group you want to add items to from the Customize the Ribbon list. 2  You can add menu items only to groups you created, which are identified in the list with the label “(Custom)” after the group's name. Select the menu/group that you want to add items to. 1  In Word 2010 and 2013, select the group you want to add items to from the Customize the Ribbon list. 2  In Word 2003, select the menu you want to customize from the Categories list.