For example, Ryanair charges £100 to change a name and many of their flights are cheaper than this. Cancellations. Most cheap flights are non refundable and if you're flying with a low cost airline then no flights are refundable, unless it's an extreme case. The price for changing the name on a ticket varies from £25 per person with up to £120 and some airlines don't allow you do it at all. If you need to cancel your flight and want a refund then the charge for this vary from £15 to £40 and some airlines don't offer any refunds at all.
If you have purchased an Just Fly ticket and wish to change the name of the passenger travelling, a standard name change fee applies and a fare plus any difference in fare between the cost of your original and new flights. Just Fly. With your Just Fly ticket, should you wish to make a change, a ticket change fee per person per sector will apply plus any difference between your original fare and the cost of the flight at the time of the change will apply. Please find details of changes charges here.
'It's simply worth being aware of these rules when booking a flight, especially if your relationship is on the rocks!'. We've put together a list airline and how much, if possible, it will cost you to change name details on a flight ticket. Bob Atkinson, travel expert from travelsupermarket.com, said: 'Some airlines make it very easy to change the name on a ticket, with the likes of Thomas Cook charging as little as £20 per person per flight on their charters.'.
Best Answer: According to their table of fees a flight change will cost you £35.00p/€35.00 per one way flight if done on-line, or £55.00p/€55.00 per flight via the call centre. I need to change a flight,the name on the ticket will be the same, but I need to change the destination. Source(s): cost change flight ryanair: https://biturl.im/cZgWv. Pattie · 2 months ago. Thumbs up
But it will cost you. Most airlines will charge a fee for changing the name details on flights. However, some airlines don't allow you to transfer name details. If your airline provider agrees to change the details then you will have to let them know in advance, before checking in. Bob Atkinson, travel expert from travelsupermarket.com, said: 'Some airlines make it very easy to change the name on a ticket, with the likes of Thomas Cook charging as little as £20 per person per flight on their charters.'.
The cost of changing a flight or flight date can vary from £15 per person plus fare up to £40 per person. The price for changing the name on a ticket varies from £25 per person with up to £120 and some airlines don't allow you do it at all. If you need to cancel your flight and want a refund then the charge for this vary from £15 to £40 and some airlines don't offer any refunds at all.
This 19-year-old from Manchester changed his name and got a new passport instead of paying an admin charge on his plane ticket to Ibiza. Adam Armstrong's stepdad booked a flight with Ryanair for Adam but put West as his surname by mistake. The fee for changing the name back to Armstrong would have been £220. So instead of paying that, he renamed himself and fast-tracked a new passport for £103. If you can wait it costs less, as little as £72.50. Adam's stepdad got it wrong because his surname is West on Facebook but he only did that as a joke. Ryanair says the normal fee to change a name on a ticket is £110 (if booked via Ryanair's website) but his girlfriend India was on it too, which doubled the cost. 
Changing a name with Ryanair could be costly. But if you are just changing the spelling of a name or from middle name to surname and vice versa, it only costs £10 or even free. However, if you are changing the name to another passenger then I’m afraid the £110 fee applies. Hi – I booked my flight in my middle name instead of first name, rang the number in Ireland above and a miserable mare said it would be £160 to change or I could do it online for £110. So I rang Ryanair in France where I am flying from, and he changed it for €10.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: According to their table of fees a flight change will cost you £35.00p/€35.00 per one way flight if done on-line, or £55.00p/€55.00 per flight via the call centre. http://www.ryanair.com/en/questions/tabl... I need to change a flight,the name on the ticket will be the same, but I need to change the destination. Source(s): cost change flight ryanair: https://biturl.im/cZgWv. Pattie · 2 months ago. Thumbs up