Sizes and Types-The standard width of an upright piano is about 5' and the depth is between 2 - 2 '. The total floor space allowance should be about 5' wide by 5' deep, including bench space. There are four types of vertical pianos, based on piano height: Spinet, Console, Studio, and Upright. The size is measured from the floor to the top of the lid. The spinet piano measures less than 36 tall. The console measures 40 to 44 tall.
The height of a vertical piano is measured from the floor to the top of the piano. There are four types of vertical pianos, based on piano height: Spinet, Console, Studio, and Upright. The size is measured from the floor to the top of the lid. The spinet piano measures less than 36 tall. The console measures 40 to 44 tall.
The action in such models was cut down in size and price, and the strings are too short; in fact, the minimum size for a Grand seems to be 4 ft.10 in. if the instrument is to be considered as a serious rival to a good Upright. Sizes and Types: The standard width of a grand piano is also about 5'. There are four types of vertical pianos, based on piano height: Spinet, Console, Studio, and Upright. The size is measured from the floor to the top of the lid. The spinet piano measures less than 36 tall. The console measures 40 to 44 tall.
Vertical pianos all have similar lengths and widths, so the main difference between the models is the height. Although the dimensions vary slightly from instrument to instrument, most vertical pianos are about 5 feet wide and 2 to 2 1/2 feet deep. Allot a 5-foot-by-5-foot floor space for a vertical piano and its bench. Save. The term upright piano refers to a particular type of instrument -- the tallest type of vertical piano, at least 47 inches high and sometimes as tall as 60 inches. People today often use the term to refer to any sort of piano that isn't a grand; these come in a range of sizes and are called vertical pianos..
A standard Upright Piano Bench is generally 30 wide x 19 high and is used with all sizes of upright pianos from 36 high to 52 high. Some smaller Spinet pianos look nice with the 25 wide Piano/Keyboard Benches. 
If the spinet is considered as the smallest in the vertical piano category, the upright pianos are said to have a height that is higher than the rest. Its height is around fifty to sixty inches, and its width is about fifty eight inches. But, typically, vertical pianos have a height of about thirty six (36) to sixty (60) inches. The spinets are actually the smallest-sized pianos that you can buy in various stores. It is about 58 inches wide and 36 to 38 inches tall. Since these are small, these can be perfect for residential units with limited spaces.
The term upright piano refers to a particular type of instrument -- the tallest type of vertical piano, at least 47 inches high and sometimes as tall as 60 inches. Save. The term upright piano refers to a particular type of instrument -- the tallest type of vertical piano, at least 47 inches high and sometimes as tall as 60 inches. People today often use the term to refer to any sort of piano that isn't a grand; these come in a range of sizes and are called vertical pianos..
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Most vertical pianos measure within a few inches of 2' deep by 5' wide, height varies according to type of piano (usually, but not always: 36-40 for a spinet, 42-44 for a console, 45-48 for a studio. 
mjlsr1958. 1 vote Vote for this answer. I should have said, All standard pianos have 88 keys.. The length and height of a piano varies with the model and manufacturer--an upright piano is taller than a spinet, and a grand piano is longer than either. However, there is only a slight variation in the width of a standard piano. 
Sizes and Types-The standard width of an upright piano is about 5' and the depth is between 2 - 2 '. The total floor space allowance should be about 5' wide by 5' deep, including bench space. 