These models estimate the amount of runoff a precipitation event generates, computes how the water will move downstream, and then predicts the flow of water at a given location (AHPS forecast point) throughout the forecast period (every six hours, out 3 to 5 days in many locations). Additionally, it’s beneficial for AHPS users to understand the process of issuing river flood watches and warnings. Every morning, hydrometeorologists at the NWS River Forecast Centers (RFCs), collect and quality control precipitation observations and precipitation forecasts.
All rivers are surrounded by a certain amount of land that is higher in altitude (upgradient) than the actual river. Precipitation that falls in this area eventually flows downhill towards the river. At any particular point on a river, the land upgradient of the point is the river's watershed, or drainage basin. This example of a watershed gives a rough idea of how precipitation flows downhill into rivers (and lakes). What separates two watersheds from each other are ridges of higher land. 
MAP-Mean Areal Precipitation-Areal runoff zone precipitation estimate normally based on point precipitation observations. The distance weighting calculation technique is used. MAP is used as input to the river forecast model on a routine basis. Runoff from excess precipitation in each zone is used to calculate streamflow which is then used to produce river stage forecasts. Estimation of Areal Precipitation. A single point precipitation measurement is quite often not representative of the volume of precipitation falling over a given catchment area.
A drainage basin or catchment basin is an extent or an area of land where surface water from rain, melting snow, or ice converges to a single point at a lower elevation, usually the exit of the basin, where the waters join another waterbody, such as a river, lake, reservoir, estuary, wetland, sea, or ocean. For example, a tributary stream of a brook that joins a small river is tributary of a larger river, which is thus part of a series of successively smaller area but higher elevation drainage basins. Similarly, the Missouri and Ohio rivers are each part of their own drainage basins and that of the Mississippi River.
The Northeast River Forecast Center produces river basin averaged Quantitative Precipitation Forecasts (QPF) for New England and much of New York State. QPF forecasts are routinely issued three times daily around 00Z, 12Z and 18Z. 
I could give you a flippant answer and say that all the water in a river comes from the sky—and that is certainly true, as streamflow is one part of the water cycle. It is also true that most of the water flowing in rivers comes from precipitation runoff from the surrounding landscape (watershed). But, the water in a river doesn't all come from surface runoff. Rain falling on the land also seeps into the Earth to form groundwater. I tend to think of creeks as the smallest of the three, with streams being in the middle, and rivers being the largest. Most of the water you see flowing in rivers comes from precipitation runoff from the land surface alongside the river.
As the precipitation event unfolds and actual reports of precipitation amounts from rain gauges and radar estimated rainfall become available, the precipitation forecast values are replaced with the observed amounts in the river model. Additionally, it’s beneficial for AHPS users to understand the process of issuing river flood watches and warnings. Every morning, hydrometeorologists at the NWS River Forecast Centers (RFCs), collect and quality control precipitation observations and precipitation forecasts.
In meteorology, precipitation is any product of the condensation of atmospheric water vapour that falls under gravity. The main forms of precipitation include drizzle, rain, sleet, snow, graupel and hail. Liquid forms of precipitation include rain and drizzle. Rain or drizzle that freezes on contact within a subfreezing air mass is called freezing rain or freezing drizzle. Frozen forms of precipitation include snow, ice needles, ice pellets, hail, and graupel.
The definition of precipitation is any form of water-liquid or solid-falling from the sky. It includes rain, sleet, snow, hail and drizzle plus a few less common occurrences such as ice pellets, diamond dust and freezing rain. Rain is drops of liquid water falling from the sky. In order for the raindrops to become heavy enough to fall, droplets of water in the cloud collide together with other droplets and other particles in the air-like soot and dust-to become larger.
For an ongoing precipitation event, the river model will use both observed and forecast precipitation amounts to predict the river levels. In addition to precipitation, some other factors the NWS River Models account for are: snowmelt, base flow/groundwater, reservoir operations, and routed water from upstream. This discussion on river models provides the background information on the river forecasts provided on the AHPS hydrograph. Additionally, it’s beneficial for AHPS users to understand the process of issuing river flood watches and warnings. Every morning, hydrometeorologists at the NWS River Forecast Centers (RFCs), collect and quality control precipitation observations and precipitation forecasts.