There are no hard-and-fast requirements for becoming a mortgage broker, but you will need some type of training. Many brokers are former loan officers who decided to strike out on their own, or real estate agents who decided they wanted to try the financial side of things. A background in sales is often helpful.
The only requirement to become a licensed mortgage broker is 24 hours of class instruction with an approved school, follow-up with 14 hours of continuing education, fingerprint card and the application for the license.
The requirements to become a licensed mortgage broker are different between States. Whichever State you are interested in becoming a broker I recommend you contact their department of real estate to discover their requirements to achieve licensing.
As far a degree, a two or four year degree in finance would be beneficial; however you still would need to go to an approved school and get the license. As a mortgage broker, I suggest getting your license first and get hired with a company prior to committing yourself to a degree; see what the job is all about. Talk to other mortgage brokers in the field and ask questions about their daily activities. Being a mortgage broker is not for everyone.
Step 3: Gain Experience. You can prepare for a mortgage broker career by starting out as a loan officer or real estate agent. In these positions, you can learn how to gather and analyze financial documents, use loan-underwriting software and interpret real estate market trends.
How to become a Mortgage Broker. A mortgage broker can either work independently or as part of a real estate firm. To break into business as a mortgage broker, it helps to have some knowledge of the real estate business. Try learning what you can about the real estate market in your area and acquaint yourself with local realtors.
Similar to loan officers, mortgage brokers work for prospective business and home buyers to arrange loans. They act as intermediaries between the buyers and mortgage lenders and may be the fiduciaries of the buyers.