Anatomically modern humans evolved from archaic Homo sapiens in the Middle Paleolithic, about 200,000 years ago. The emergence of anatomically modern human marks the dawn of the subspecies Homo sapiens sapiens, i.e. the subspecies of Homo sapiens that includes all modern humans. Humans are a highly variable species; modern humans can show remarkably robust traits, and early modern humans even more so. Despite this, modern humans differ from archaic people (the Neanderthals and Denisovans) in a range of anatomical details.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Answers Publisher. Confidence votes 260K. Modern humans belong to a group called hominids. Homo sapiens, or humans, are the only surviving species of hominids. Hominids are part of a larger group of animals called primates, which includes monkeys and apes. Humans are also mammals. In short, humans belong to the primate group. Kingdom: | Animalia / Phylum: | Chordata / Class: | Mammalia / Order: | Primates / Family: | Hominidae / Subfamily: | Homin … inae / Tribe: | Hominini / Genus: | Homo / Species: | H. sapiens. 5 people found this useful.
During a time of dramatic climate change 200,000 years ago, Homo sapiens evolved in Africa. Like other early humans that were living at this time, they gathered and hunted food, and evolved behaviors that helped them respond to the challenges of survival in unstable environments. 
1 In our example, we would classify humans in Genus Homo, which includes modern humans and the types of early human ancestors that are familiar from popular culture-neanderthals, cro-magnons, and so on. In other words, an animal's official name by which it is recognized by scientists worldwide is its Genus (capitalized) followed by its species (not capitalized). For example, the scientific name of modern humans is Homo sapiens because they belong to Genus Homo and Species sapiens.
A human (also called a human being or person) is a member of the species Homo sapiens, which means 'wise man' in Latin. Carolus Linnaeus put humans in the mammalian order of primates. Apes are also primates. They are the nearest animal relations to humans. Humans are social animals. They usually live in groups. 
Early modern Homo sapiens in Africa and Southwest Asia 100,000 years ago made tools that were similar to those of the Neandertals and other late archaic humans. These were mostly simple Mousterian-like Levallois flake and core tools. However, by 90,000-75,000 years ago some modern humans began producing new kinds of artifacts that were revolutionary enough to warrant their being placed into a different Paleolithic stage--the Upper Paleolithic.
Early Modern Homo sapiens. All people today are classified as Homo sapiens. Our species of humans first began to evolve nearly 200,000 years ago in association with technologies not unlike those of the early Neandertals. It is now clear that early Homo sapiens, or modern humans, did not come after the Neandertals but were their contemporaries. It would be a mistake to assume that from the time modern Homo sapiens began migrating out of Africa that all people in that continent were modern humans. The video below presents evidence of pockets of archaic humans surviving in West Africa until at least 13,000 years ago.
Humans, chimpanzees, gorillas, orangutans and their extinct ancestors form a family of organisms known as the Hominidae. Researchers generally agree that among the living animals in this group, humans are most closely related to chimpanzees, judging from comparisons of anatomy and genetics. 
There are three types of modern genetic engineering that can be used on animals. Modern being the use of chemicals instead of just selective breeding. Xenografting-The use of human DNA to supplement an animal's or vice versa. Cloning-Using the DNA of one animal to another animal with the identical genetic makeup. 