What causes side effects. Hormone therapies for prostate cancer cause side effects because they reduce the levels of male hormones in the body. Some side effects are common to all hormone therapies used for prostate cancer. Some effects vary from drug to drug
Testosterone replacement therapy is designed to restore your testosterone to normal levels. It is administered through injections, patches, or gels. In 2015, the FDA issued guidance regarding a possible increased risk of stroke and heart attack associated with testosterone replacement. The most common side effects associated with testosterone buccal patches, which are applied under the gums, include: 1  Unpleasant or bitter taste in the mouth. 2  Difficulty tasting food. 3  Stinging or swelling of the lips. 4  Gum pain, tenderness, swelling, and irritation
In general, testosterone replacement therapy is safe. It is associated with some side effects, including: 1  Acne or oily skin. 2  Mild fluid retention. 3  Stimulation of prostate tissue, with perhaps some increased urination symptoms such as a decreased stream or frequency. 4  Increased risk of developing prostate cancer. 
All things considered, the side effects of testosterone replacement therapy are quite manageable. We know what to look for and how to intervene. With careful monitoring, it is entirely possible to treat and/or prevent significant problems these side effects may pose. Ultimately it comes down to balance. Why Side Effects Occur With Testosterone Replacement Therapy. Some side effects seen with TRT are the direct result of the use of exogenous testosterone (testosterone not made naturally in the body). Pharmaceutical grade testosterone is bio-identical, that is, it is constructed, recognized, and utilized in the same manner as the hormone produced by your body
Common side effects of Depo-Testosterone include nausea, vomiting, headache, anxiety, depression, skin color changes, increased/decreased sexual interest, oily skin, hair loss, breast swelling in men, numbness or tingly feeling, and acne. Pain, swelling, and redness at the injection site may also occur. This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur. Tell your doctor about any unusual or bothersome side effect. You may report side effects to FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088. Read the entire detailed patient monograph for Depo-Testosterone (Testosterone Cypionate Injection).
The following write-up provides information on the side effects of testosterone injections. Advertisement. Testosterone is a naturally-occurring male sex hormone that is mainly produced by the testes. It plays a vital role in maintaining reproductive health in men. 
This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur. Tell your doctor about any unusual or bothersome side effect. You may report side effects to FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088. Read the Depo-Testosterone (testosterone cypionate injection) Side Effects Center for a complete guide to possible side effects. Less serious side effects may include: 1  breast swelling in men; 2  headache, anxiety, depressed mood; 3  numbness or tingly feeling; or.
A low testosterone level by itself doesn't need treatment. Testosterone replacement therapy can have side effects, and the long-term risks and benefits aren't known. Only men with symptoms of low testoste rone and blood levels that confirm this as the cause of symptoms should consider testosterone replacement. 