From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The iodine value (or iodine adsorption value or iodine number or iodine index) in chemistry is the mass of iodine in grams that is consumed by 100 grams of a chemical substance. Iodine numbers are often used to determine the amount of unsaturation in fatty acids. 
a chemical element, atomic number 53, atomic weight 126.904. (See Appendix 6.) Iodine is essential in nutrition, being especially prevalent in the colloid of the thyroid gland. It is used in the treatment of hypothyroidism and as a topical antiseptic. Iodine is a frequent cause of poisoning (see iodism). Deficiency of iodine causes goiter. Almost 80% of the iodine present in the body is in the thyroid gland, mostly in the form of thyroglobulin. Iodine deficiency can result in goiter or cretinism. Iodine is found in seafood, iodized salt, and some dairy products. It is used as a contrast agent for blood vessels in computed tomography scans.
Iodine is a trace element that is naturally present in some foods, added to others, and available as a dietary supplement. Iodine is an essential component of the thyroid hormones thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3). 
Iodine is a chemical element with symbol I and atomic number 53. The name is from Greek ἰοειδής ioeidēs, meaning violet or purple, due to the color of elemental iodine vapor. Iodine and its compounds are primarily used in nutrition, and industrially in the production of acetic acid and certain polymers. Iodine has only one stable isotope. A number of iodine radioisotopes, such as 131 I, are also used in medical applications. Iodine is found on Earth mainly as the highly water-soluble iodide ion I− , which concentrates it in oceans and brine pools.
Further, you are very susceptible to radiation damage without sufficient protection from iodine. These are just a few of the reasons it is essential to maintain optimal iodine levels by supplementing or consuming foods rich in iodine. 1 Seaweed, such as Kelp is another food rich in iodine. 2  Kelp can be taken as supplement tablets if you don’t enjoy the taste of seaweed, or brown seaweed is another source. 3  Again, beware of the geographical sources. 4  Coconut oil contains iodine combined with other nutrients to boost thyroid activity.
Iodine is a mineral known to be important for thyroid function. However, doctors are rarely taught how important adequate iodine intake is. The thyroid gland affects a huge list of functions in the body, and iodine is needed for proper thyroid function. Along with thyroid function, iodine is important for a whole host of reasons. Iodine is a mineral similar to calcium and magnesium. It is associated with the ocean and is found in large amounts in seaweed. It is also found in other plants and animals from the sea
In radioactive form, iodine is used as a diagnostic substance to determine the ability of the thyroid gland to take up iodine. In tincture form, iodine is used as a locally applied antiseptic, germicide, and disclosing solution. Almost 80% of the iodine present in the body is in the thyroid gland, mostly in the form of thyroglobulin. Iodine deficiency can result in goiter or cretinism. Iodine is found in seafood, iodized salt, and some dairy products. It is used as a contrast agent for blood vessels in computed tomography scans.
1. (Elements & Compounds) a bluish-black element of the halogen group that sublimates into a violet irritating gas. Its compounds are used in medicine and photography and in dyes. The radioisotope iodine-131 (radioiodine), with a half-life of 8 days, is used in the diagnosis and treatment of thyroid disease.
Iodine: An element in the diet that is essential for the manufacture of hormones by the thyroid gland. The thyroid gland uses iodine to make thyroxine (T4), which has four iodine molecules attached to its structure, and triiodothyronine (T3), which has three iodine molecules attached. Iodine is found in seafood, bread, iodized salt, and seaweed.