A Dr. Jerry Gordon, Dentist, answered. Yes, but I advise my patients not to eat anything too hot, spicy, or crunchy for 24 hours after an extraction. Do not drink through a straw for 24 hours after a tooth has been pulled because it can unseat the clot and make you more susceptible to a dry socket.
After the initial 24 hours following your tooth extraction, stick to soft foods such as noodles, gelatin, cottage cheese, pudding and applesauce. As your pain subsides after 24 hours, you can begin introducing foods into your diet that have more textures. Time Frames. Dentist Photo Credit Stockbyte/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Initial healing after a tooth extraction takes one to two weeks; however, you will be able to eat before the site is fully healed. The time frame for specific foods you can eat will vary depending on the procedure.
1 Bite firmly but gently on the gauze pad placed by your dentist to reduce bleeding and allow a clot to form in the tooth socket. 2  Change gauze pads before they become soaked with blood. 3  Otherwise, leave the pad in place for three to four hours after the extraction. Although having a tooth pulled is usually very safe, the procedure can allow harmful bacteria into the bloodstream. Gum tissue is also at risk of infection. If you have a condition that puts you at high risk for developing a severe infection, you may need to take antibiotics before and
Once the tooth has been pulled, a blood clot usually forms in the socket. The dentist will pack a gauze pad into the socket and have you bite down on it to help stop the bleeding. Sometimes the dentist will place a few stitches -- usually self-dissolving -- to close the gum edges over the extraction site. Although having a tooth pulled is usually very safe, the procedure can allow harmful bacteria into the bloodstream. Gum tissue is also at risk of infection. If you have a condition that puts you at high risk for developing a severe infection, you may need to take antibiotics before and after the extraction.
The best advice is to eat up to eight hours before the wisdom teeth removal procedure, and to be sure you eat all of your favorite foods that will be difficult or impossible in the days after the surgery. Plus, you must be sure you get adequate nutrition and fluid intake. 
Don’t disturb the clot that forms on the wound. Oral hygiene: Do not rinse your mouth briskly, or clean the teeth next to the extraction site for 24 hours after extraction. Rinse your mouth gently with warm salt water as this helps to clean the area. Foods: Avoid smoking and eat soft foods as advised by your dentist. Wisdom teeth-if they cause problems like gum swelling, tooth decay, change in bite (the way the teeth come together), or infection (pericoronitis) Preparation Before extraction your dentist will take a complete medical and dental history and do a clinical examination. If required he or she will do X-rays.
1 Avoid rinsing or spitting forcefully for 24 hours after the extraction to avoid dislodging the clot that forms in the socket. 2  After 24 hours, rinse with your mouth with a solution made of 1/2 teaspoon salt and 8 ounces of warm water. 3  Do not drink from a straw for the first 24 hours. Although having a tooth pulled is usually very safe, the procedure can allow harmful bacteria into the bloodstream. Gum tissue is also at risk of infection. If you have a condition that puts you at high risk for developing a severe infection, you may need to take antibiotics before and after the extraction.
Here are some eating suggestions for the first 1-2 weeks after your wisdom teeth are removed, based on my experience with this. Mashed Potatoes: These are easy to eat and can alternately be topped with gravy, sour cream, or butter for more variety. If the potatoes are well-mashed, this is one of the easiest foods to eat after wisdom teeth extraction. 