Leptospirosis. Read more. Leptospirosis is a disease caused by bacteria carried in the urine of infected animals. Many different kinds of wild and domestic animals may carry the bacterium (e.g., cattle, pigs, horses, dogs, rodents, wild animals). Lyme Disease. Read more. Lyme disease is an inflammatory disease caused by the bacterium Borrelia burgdorferi, which normally lives in mice, squirrels, and other small animals. It is transmitted among these animals—and to humans—through the bites of certain species of ticks.
Tuberculosis is an infectious disease. The bacteria that cause tuberculosis are called mycobacterium tuberculosis. People with TB or tuberculosis cough excessively and suffer a terrible pain in the chest. They cough up blood and display excessive weight loss, fatigue, loss of appetite, and persistent fever. The disease spreads by inhaling the bacteria or through contact with a person suffering from the disease. Legionella also cause a flu-like illness called Pontiac fever. Yaws disease is a relatively lesser known disease caused by the bacteria Treponema pertenue.
Infectious diseases are caused by small microbes invisible to the eye. The microbes include bacteria, protozoans, fungi, yeast and virus. Of them bacteria and protozoans are the most common disease causing agents. Bacteria cause disease both in plants and animals. List of diseases caused by bacteria in humans include: Face – Acne or pimples are caused by Propionibacterium acnes. Ear: Otitis is an ear infection which caused by pneumococcus, Haemophilus influenzae, and Moraxella catarrhalis. Eyes: Conjunctivitis is an eye infection leading to soreness of eyes.
Anaplasmosis. Anaplasmosis is a tickborne disease caused by the bacterium Anaplasma phagocytophilum. It is transmitted to humans by tick bites primarily from the black-legged tick and the western black-legged tick. Symptoms of anaplasmosis include fever, headache, chills, and muscle aches. Like viruses, bacteria, and parasites, prions are bloodborne and may be transmitted by blood transfusion. Variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease (vCJD). Variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease (vCJD) is a rare, rapidly progressing neurological disease that causes dementia and death.
Diseases caused by bacteria; Bacteria causes wide set of diseases by deranging the host physiology. courtesy:wikicommons. Most of the diseases caused by bacteria are life threatening and also damaging to the affected organ. Once infected the common symptoms like fever, weakness are observed by the host. List of diseases caused by bacteria in humans include: Face – Acne or pimples are caused by Propionibacterium acnes. Ear: Otitis is an ear infection which caused by pneumococcus, Haemophilus influenzae, and Moraxella catarrhalis. Eyes: Conjunctivitis is an eye infection leading to soreness of eyes.
While a majority of bacteria in the human body are countered by the immune system, there are a few that are pathogenic in nature. Pathogenic bacteria cause infectious diseases like leprosy, cholera, anthrax, and bubonic plague. They are also responsible for the spread of respiratory infections like tuberculosis. The disease spreads by inhaling the bacteria or through contact with a person suffering from the disease. Legionella also cause a flu-like illness called Pontiac fever. Yaws disease is a relatively lesser known disease caused by the bacteria Treponema pertenue.
Harmful bacteria may also emit toxins that damage the body. Common pathogenic bacteria and the types of bacterial diseases they cause include: Escherichia coli and Salmonella cause food poisoning. Helicobacter pylori cause gastritis and ulcers. Neisseria gonorrhoeae causes the sexually transmitted disease gonorrhea. Neisseria meningitidis causes meningitis. 
The bacterium legionella causes Legionnaires' disease, a lung infection which is a severe form of pneumonia. The disease spreads by inhaling the bacteria or through contact with a person suffering from the disease. Legionella also cause a flu-like illness called Pontiac fever. Yaws disease is a relatively lesser known disease caused by the bacteria Treponema pertenue. It affects the skin, bones, and cartilage, and spreads through skin contact
Urinary tract infections are usually caused by bacteria, and disproportionately affect women. An infection of the bladder may spread to the kidneys, a condition known as pyelonephritis. Prostatitis -- bacterial infection of the prostate gland -- can occur in men of any age. Meningitis -- infection of the tissues that cover and protect the brain and spinal cord -- can be caused by viruses, bacteria or fungi. Common bacterial causes include meningococcus, pneumococcus and streptococcus.