The class widths are therefore 6, 5 and 2. The area of a histogram represents the frequency. The areas of our bars should therefore be 6, 15 and 4. Remember that in a bar chart the height of the bar represents the frequency. It is therefore correct to label the vertical axis 'frequency'. 
A histogram is a representation of a frequency distribution by means of rectangles whose widths represent class intervals and whose areas are proportional to the corresponding frequencies.. Online Webster's Dictionary. Sounds complicated. . . but the concept really is pretty simple. To get an idea, look at these three histograms: This plot represents data with a well-defined peak that is close in value to the median and the mean. While there are outlyers, they are of relatively low frequency.
A histogram is used for continuous data, where the bins represent ranges of data, and the areas of the rectangles are meaningful, while a bar chart is a plot of categorical variables and the discontinuity should be indicated by having gaps between the rectangles, from which only the length is meaningful. This histogram shows the number of cases per unit interval as the height of each block, so that the area of each block is equal to the number of people in the survey who fall into its category. The area under the curve represents the total number of cases (124 million).
To construct a histogram, the first step is to  bin  the range of values—that is, divide the entire range of values into a series of intervals—and then count how many values fall into each interval. The bins are usually specified as consecutive, non-overlapping intervals of a variable. This histogram shows the number of cases per unit interval as the height of each block, so that the area of each block is equal to the number of people in the survey who fall into its category. The area under the curve represents the total number of cases (124 million).
1 Frequency defined as the number of values that fall into each class. 2  Histogram consists of a series of rectangles whose widths are defined by the limits of the classes, and whose heights are determined by the frequency in each interval. It is a tabulation of the frequencies of each value (or range of values). There are a wide variety of ways to illustrate frequency distributions, including histograms, relative frequency histograms, density histograms, and cumulative frequency distributions.
By Courtney Taylor. A histogram is a type of graph that has wide applications in statistics. Histograms allow a visual interpretation of numerical data by indicating the number of data points that lie within a range of values, called a class or a bin. The frequency of the data that falls in each class is depicted by the use of a bar. On the other hand, histograms are used for data that is at least at the ordinal level of measurement. The classes for a histogram are ranges of values. Another key difference between bar graphs and histograms has to do with the ordering of the bars.
Histograms are based on area, not height of bars. In a histogram, it is the area of the bar that indicates the frequency of occurrences for each bin. This means that the height of the bar does not necessarily indicate how many occurrences of scores there were within each individual bin. The major difference is that a histogram is only used to plot the frequency of score occurrences in a continuous data set that has been divided into classes, called bins. Bar charts, on the other hand, can be used for a great deal of other types of variables including ordinal and nominal data sets. 1
A histogram is constructed from a frequency table, thus its name frequency histogram. The intervals from the table are placed on the x-axis and the values needed for the frequencies are represented on the y-axis. Cumulative Frequency Histogram: The cumulative frequency is the running total of the frequencies. On a graph, it can be represented by a cumulative frequency polygon. The graph will look like a bar graph that shows the data after it has been added from the smallest interval to the largest interval.
A histogram is a graphical representation of the distribution of numerical data. It is an estimate of the probability distribution of a continuous variable (quantitative variable) and was first introduced by Karl Pearson. This histogram shows the number of cases per unit interval as the height of each block, so that the area of each block is equal to the number of people in the survey who fall into its category. The area under the curve represents the total number of cases (124 million).