Notes [edit]. 1  The name revenant is of French origin, and generally means one who returns (from death). 2  When compared to the monster as it appears in the game, the revenant model built during the game's development shows a good deal more muscle tissue, and no chest armor. For the monster in Doom 3, see Revenant (Doom 3). A revenant on the move in Level 6: The Crusher, in Doom II. Revenants are monsters introduced in Doom II that are easily recognized by their high-pitched shriek.
1 The name revenant is of French origin, and generally means one who returns (from death). 2  When compared to the monster as it appears in the game, the revenant model built during the game's development shows a good deal more muscle tissue, and no chest armor. For the monster in Doom 3, see Revenant (Doom 3). A revenant on the move in Level 6: The Crusher, in Doom II. Revenants are monsters introduced in Doom II that are easily recognized by their high-pitched shriek.
Merriam-Webster 's definition of revenant is one that returns after death or a long absence.. In that the subject returns from death, one can easily see an association of the term with the undead in fantasy and horror fiction. On the other hand, unlike zombies, the revenant's long absence does imply a certain anachronism in its eventual return. The term often implies some underlying motive of revenge prompting the return. Revenants exist primarily in role-playing games, fantasy fiction, science fiction, and horror fiction.
The Revenant (2015 film). The Revenant is an upcoming American biographical western thriller film directed by Alejandro G. Inarritu. Iñárritu the screenplay By Mark. L smith And inarritu iñárritu is based in Part On'michael punke s 2003 novel of the. same name In April 2014, after several delays in production due to other projects, Inarritu iñárritu confirmed that he was beginning work On The revenant and DiCaprio dicaprio would play the lead. role
A revenant is a visible ghost or animated corpse that was believed to return from the grave to terrorize the living. The word revenant is derived from the Latin word, reveniens, returning (see also the related French verb revenir, meaning to come back). Vivid stories of revenants arose in Western Europe (especially Great Britain, and were later carried by Anglo-Norman invaders to Ireland) during the High Middle Ages. Several stories state that revenants drink blood. For example, in Historia rerum Anglicarum the corpse of one revenant is reported to have been found in the grave, swollen and suffused with blood. When it was pierced, a stream of blood flew out of the wound.
Also references of revenant-like beings come from the Caribbean and are often referred to as 'The soucouyant' or 'soucriant' in Dominica, Trinidadian and Guadeloupean folklore (also known as Ole-Higue or Loogaroo elsewhere in the Caribbean). Several stories state that revenants drink blood. For example, in Historia rerum Anglicarum the corpse of one revenant is reported to have been found in the grave, swollen and suffused with blood. When it was pierced, a stream of blood flew out of the wound.
Notes Edit. 1  The name revenant is of French origin, and generally means one who returns (from death). 2  When compared to the monster as it appears in the game, the revenant model built during the game's development shows a good deal more muscle tissue, and no chest armor. This article is about the original Doom games monster Revenant. For the monster in Doom 3, see Revenant (Doom 3). A revenant on the move in Level 6: The Crusher, in Doom II. Revenants are monsters introduced in Doom II that are easily recognized by their high-pitched shriek.
1 The name revenant is of French origin, and generally means one who returns (from death). 2  When compared to the monster as it appears in the game, the revenant model built during the game's development shows a good deal more muscle tissue, and no chest armor. This article is about the original Doom games monster Revenant. For the monster in Doom 3, see Revenant (Doom 3). A revenant on the move in Level 6: The Crusher, in Doom II. Revenants are monsters introduced in Doom II that are easily recognized by their high-pitched shriek.
In fantasy fiction, a revenant is a sentient creature whose desire to fulfill a special goal allows it to return from the grave as a creature vaguely resembling an intelligent zombie or jiangshi. On the other hand, unlike zombies, the revenant's long absence does imply a certain anachronism in its eventual return. The term often implies some underlying motive of revenge prompting the return. Revenants exist primarily in role-playing games, fantasy fiction, science fiction, and horror fiction.