Also called great pandas, parti-colored bears, bamboo bears and white bears, giant pandas are distinguished from other pandas by their large size and black-and-white coloring. The bold coloring may provide camouflage, according to the Smithsonian National Zoo. Giant pandas live up to their name.
Just you know why. Panda Cheese commercial song. Here is the link to the album that this song is on; https://itunes.apple.com/us/album/gre... --Track #16. IMPORTANT: this song doesn't have the backing vocals in the iTunes version.
The giant panda is perhaps the most powerful symbol in the world when it comes to species conservation. Adored around the world, the distinctive black and white animal is a national treasure in China and has been the symbol of WWF since its formation in 1961.
In the wild, giant pandas are only found in the remote, mountainous regions of central China, in Sichuan, Shaanxi and Gansu provinces, according to the National Zoo. In this area, there are cool, wet bamboo forests that are perfect for the giant panda's needs.
The giant panda is listed as endangered in the World Conservation Union's (IUCN's) Red List of Threatened Species. There are about 1,600 left in the wild. More than 300 pandas live in zoos and breeding centers around the world, mostly in China.
A wild giant pandas diet is almost exclusively (99 percent) bamboo. The balance consists of other grasses and occasional small rodents or musk deer fawns. In zoos, giant pandas eat bamboo, sugar cane, rice gruel, a special high-fiber biscuit, carrots, apples, and sweet potatoes.
Red pandas have historically lived in the shadow of giant pandas, but they were actually the first of the two species to be discovered, and to be called panda.. In the past, red pandas have been classified with the bear family (which includes giant pandas) and with procyonids (a family that includes raccoons).
Red pandas are engaging, bamboo-eating animals that resemble raccoons and share parts of their Asian habitats with giant pandas. Although not giant, the red panda is an endangered species that also deserves scientific and conservation attention, as well as wider recognition among the public.