Early Withdrawal Penalty. If you take money out of your SEP IRA prior to age 59-1/2, you will have to pay a 10 percent penalty on the withdraw. This penalty comes in addition to the regular taxes you owe. In both cases, you will still owe money to the IRS as part of your income tax for the year you withdraw from your SEP IRA. Excess Accumulation Penalty. On the flip side of early withdrawals, there is also a penalty for failing to take mandatory distributions.
With a Traditional, Rollover, SEP, or SIMPLE IRA, you make contributions on a pre-tax basis (if your income is under a certain level) and pay no taxes until you withdraw money. IRA withdrawal rules and penalty details vary depending on your age. 
Taking early distributions from SEPs and IRAs means you will have to pay taxes on any previously untaxed amounts. In addition the IRS may impose an additional 10 percent early withdrawal penalty on the taxable portion of the distribution if you take money out before turning 59 1/2. For example, imagine you have $30,000 in a Roth IRA and $20,000 comes from contributions. You could take out up to $20,000 tax-free and penalty-free. However, that last $10,000 counts as taxable income and the early withdrawal penalty applies.
Miss the deadline and any money not rolled over to a Roth IRA will be subject to a 10 percent early withdrawal penalty if you are younger than 59 ½--on top of the income taxes will owe on the entire converted amount. 
As you probably know, transferring money out of an IRA is a taxable event, and if you are below the age of 59 1/2, there would likely be an additional penalty as well. So, whenever you move money from one IRA account to another, caution must be taken to make sure it doesn't appear to be a distribution. First of all, it is important that the transfer is between IRAs of the same type. For example, transferring funds from a traditional IRA to a Roth IRA is usually a taxable event, though the early distribution penalty would not apply.
1 You can make a withdrawal from your SEP-IRA prior to age 59 ½ without incurring the early withdrawal penalty in specific circumstances, including financial hardship, higher education expenses or a first home purchase. 2  You must take minimum required distributions from SEP-IRAs beginning at age 70 ½. The rules governing access to the assets are similar to the rules for traditional IRAs: 1  Withdrawal of funds prior to age 59 ½ may be subject to a 10% early withdrawal penalty, along with any applicable income taxes. 2  You can’t borrow from a SEP-IRA. 3  You can roll your SEP-IRA assets into another IRA account.
Once you withdraw all of your contributions, you start taking out earnings. The earnings portion of an early withdrawal is taxable and subject to the 10 percent penalty. For example, imagine you have $30,000 in a Roth IRA and $20,000 comes from contributions. You could take out up to $20,000 tax-free and penalty-free. However, that last $10,000 counts as taxable income and the early withdrawal penalty applies.
+ More. If you withdraw money from your individual retirement account before age 59 1/2, you will generally have to pay a 10 percent early withdrawal penalty in addition to income tax on the amount withdrawn. This means a $5,000 withdrawal taken by a mid-career worker in the 25 percent tax bracket would result in $1,750 in taxes and penalties. But there are a variety of ways to avoid the IRA early withdrawal penalty if you meet specific criteria: Turn age 59 1/2. Once you turn age 59 1/2, you can withdraw any amount from your IRA without having to pay the 10 percent penalty. But regular income tax will still be due on each withdrawal. IRA distributions are not required until after age 70 1/2