Microchimerism: The presence of two genetically distinct and separately derived populations of cells, one population being at a low concentration, in the same individual or an organ such as the bone marrow. Microchimerism may be due to transfer of cells between mother and fetus or between two twins. 
Microchimerism is the harboring of small numbers of cells that originated in a genetically different individual. 1  During pregnancy some cells traffic from the mother to the fetus and from the fetus to the mother. 2  Surprisingly, a small number of the mother’s cells persist in her offspring, including into adult life. 1 During pregnancy some cells traffic from the mother to the fetus and from the fetus to the mother. 2  Surprisingly, a small number of the mother’s cells persist in her offspring, including into adult life. 3  And a small number of cells from prior pregnancies persist in mothers many years later.
Fetal microchimerism (FMc) describes the persistence of low numbers of fetal cells in the mother after a pregnancy. A number of recent studies suggests FMc may play a role in the etiology of some autoimmune diseases. 
Microchimerism is defined as the presence of two genetically distinct cell populations in the same individual. It can arise from several causes including the bidirectional transfer of cells between mother and fetus during pregnancy, twin-to-twin transfer in utero, from organ transplantation, and blood transfusion. 
Initial publications of the relatively recent discovery of fetal microchimerism occurred in the late 1970's [ 7 ]. Fetal microchimerism is the transfer of intact living fetal cells from the fetal circulation into the maternal circulation and occurs in all pregnancies and increases with gestational age [ 8 - 10 ]. Post-abortion and the incidence of fetal microchimerism. There is an increased fetal-to-maternal transfer of fetal undifferentiated progenitor cells during an abortion procedure as the placenta is being destroyed [ 54 - 56 ].
Microchimerism is the presence of a small number of cells that originate from another individual and are therefore genetically distinct from the cells of the host individual. This phenomenon may be related to certain types of autoimmune diseases; however, the mechanisms responsible for this relationship are unclear. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: microchimerism (Noun). The presence of a small number of cells in an organism that are genetically different from those of the organism itself; typically transmitted between a mother and fetus.
Microchimerism is defined as the presence of two genetically distinct cell populations in the same individual. It can arise from several causes including the bidirectional transfer of cells between mother and fetus during pregnancy, twin-to-twin transfer in utero, from organ transplantation, and blood transfusion. 
Microchimerism is a phenomenon in which an organism's body contains a small number of cells from another organism. Unlike tetragametic chimerism, microchimerism is acquired. Microchimerism occurs in many species, including humans. Microchimerism in humans commonly happens during pregnancy. Cells from the fetus ' immune system can enter the mother through the placenta, where they may survive and continue to reproduce through mitosis.
In humans (and perhaps in all Placentals) the most common form is fetomaternal microchimerism (also known as fetal cell microchimerism or fetal chimerism) whereby cells from a fetus pass through the placenta and establish cell lineages within the mother. Microchimerism occurs in most pairs of twins in cattle. In cattle (and other bovines), the placentae of fraternal twins usually fuse and the twins share blood circulation, resulting in exchange of cell lines.