Our entry way (19 feet long total) opens up (maybe about 13 feet) to our living room. We have a partial wall on one end with the tallest portion of our vaulted ceiling on that wall, then one full wall next to that, then a good size window and slider on the third wall. 
If your living room is on the ground floor and the windows are easy to access, go outside and clean the exterior of your living room windows, too. If you have a glass coffee table or glass shelving, today is the day to get it gleaming. Design ideas for an expansive transitional living room in Los Angeles. “In the summer we have both the dining room and living room windows wide open,” Faulkner says. The original art on the window wall includes a dog icon (top), commissioned from Mary Francis Dondelinger, an iconographer. This is an example of a craftsman living room in Seattle.
The average size of a bedroom window varies slightly between house  designs. They are generally about 26 inches in width and about 40  to 60 inches in height. + 1 other found this useful. A theater room will vary depending on the size of a persons house.  A theater room will have to be big enough to fit a big screen and  some chairs. You will want your theate … r room to be at least 30 x  30. 1 person
Sizes of Living Rooms. The average size of living room is 16 feet in length and 16 feet in width. Small houses like apartments for students and newlyweds have smaller room size. The usual size of a living room in these houses is 12 feet x 12 feet. In bigger houses, the average size of the living room is 18 feet in length and 13 feet in width
I have two windows that flank a fireplace in my great room, and I want to dress each window with a simple panel. Nothing fancy. Just a panel hanging on rings from a wooden rod. The rod diameter is 2.5 inches and the panels are 120 inches long. The fabric is about $30/yd and it will be lined (no interlining needed). 
In the American home, the average size of a living room is about  250 to 300 square feet. The room is generally slightly rectangular  in shape. A theater room will vary depending on the size of a persons house.  A theater room will have to be big enough to fit a big screen and  some chairs. You will want your theate … r room to be at least 30 x  30. 1 person found this useful.
I am having a porch enclosed with insulation and six 56 windows. The ceiling is low on one side, vaulted up to the other side an additional 2 feet. The room will be heated and cooled, a 9 x 11 foot area, exit door and slider into the home. I will have 2 recliner chairs, TV and end tables. I'd like to hang panel drapes in my master bedroom with 12-foot ceilings. The windows are five feet tall. The distance between the ceiling and top of windows is 4 feet. The distance between bottom of windows and floor is three feet.
Board-Mounted Valances. Board-mounted valances tend to be more formal than other types of valances. If you’re going for an upscale look in your living room, a board-mounted valance would be a good option. This type of valance can be mounted either outside or inside the window frame. If there is an existing window treatment, the valance is typically mounted on the outside. 
So you could easily have a living room window that is 8 feet high and 36 inches wide; and a basement window that measures a mere 11 inches by 16 inches. Although there are ready-made windows sold in the market, you may find it hard to find one that will actually fit into your window opening. The size actually depends on your preference. You just have to take into consideration the fact that bathroom, basement and attic windows are usually smaller than those in the bedroom while windows in the common area such as the living room are usually the largest of all windows in your house.