1 Make sure that the ham will fit into your slow cooker. 2  Place the ham in the appliance and add the glaze ingredients. 3  You can also just add some Coke or Pepsi, chicken broth, or water; about 1 cup will do it. 4  Cover and cook on low for 5-8 hours, until ham is thoroughly heated. 1 The best way to do this is to place the ham on a rack in a roasting pan. 2  Add water to the bottom of the pan and cover the whole thing tightly with foil. 3  Bake at 325°F for 18-20 minutes per pound, until a meat thermometer registers 140°F.
Preheat oven to 275°F. Remove all packaging materials and place ham face down directly into baking dish or roasting pan. (Place whole ham on its side.) Cover tightly with lid, foil or place in cooking bag and heat at 275°F for approximately 12-15 minutes per pound. Glazing Ham. Remove ham from oven 10 minutes before end of heating time recommended above. Open prepared glaze packet (see tips below) and brush half of the contents on surface of the ham. If ham was placed in cooking bag, carefully cut bag open and pull away from ham, then apply glaze.
1 If you want to glaze the ham, place on a broiler pan and cover with glaze; broil 10 from the heat for 10-15 minutes, watching carefully, until glaze is cooked. 2  Oven Method. 3  The goal is to reheat the ham without drying it out. 4  The best way to do this is to place the ham on a rack in a roasting pan. 1 The best way to do this is to place the ham on a rack in a roasting pan. 2  Add water to the bottom of the pan and cover the whole thing tightly with foil. 3  Bake at 325°F for 18-20 minutes per pound, until a meat thermometer registers 140°F.
I have bought a spiral cut ham several times, and have always baked in the oven. If you have a glaze pack, make that up and brush over the ham the last 15-20 minutes of baking. Then let the ham rest 20 minutes prior to serving (so the glaze can set). If you do not have baking time instructions, refer to a cook book. All your doing is warming the ham, as it is already cooked
Spiral Sliced Ham. To heat or glaze your Cook's Bone-In Spiral Sliced Ham prior to serving, we recommend the following instructions for best results. IMPORTANT: Don't overheat your ham (unless you prefer it as dry as the Sahara, of course). Glazing Ham. Remove ham from oven 10 minutes before end of heating time recommended above. Open prepared glaze packet (see tips below) and brush half of the contents on surface of the ham. If ham was placed in cooking bag, carefully cut bag open and pull away from ham, then apply glaze.
1. Thaw the ham if necessary. If you purchased a frozen spiral-cut ham, keep it in the airtight packaging and thaw it for two or three days in the refrigerator. A small ham can instead be submerged in cold water and thawed in two or three hours, replacing the water with fresh, cold water every half hour. 5. Glaze the ham. This is best done 30 minutes before the ham is finished cooking, or once a fresh or ready to cook ham has reached an internal temperature of 145ºF (60ºC). Score the ham with a diagonal pattern using a knife and brush on the glaze of your choice, then return the ham to the oven for another 30 minutes.
Tightly wrap the ham in the foil and place on a rack in a roasting pan. Fill the pan with an inch of water and roast in the oven until the internal temperature reaches 140 degrees F, about 20 minutes per pound. Pour the remaining half of the glaze in a small saucepot on medium heat and bring to a simmer. 