The inferior is located beneath the superior. A wall, called a septum, separates the right and left sides of the heart. Valves connect each atrium to the corresponding ventricle below. The mitral valve connects the left atrium with the left ventricle.
As the left ventricle contracts, the mitral valve closes and the aortic valve opens. The closure of the mitral valve prevents blood from backing into the left atrium and the opening of the aortic valve allows the blood to flow into the aorta and flow throughout the body.
The mitral valve is located between the left atrium (LA) and left ventricle (LV). When oxygenated blood comes from the lungs into the LA, it goes from the LA to the LV (… diastole). When the LV contracts (systole), it pumps the blood from the LV to the aorta for circulation throughout the body.
The mitral valve is also called the bicuspid valve because it contains two leaflets or cusps. The mitral valve gets its name from the resemblance to a bishop 's mitre (a type of hat). It is on the left side of the heart and allows the blood to flow from the left atrium into the left ventricle.
Overview. The human heart has 4 valves. The mitral valve connects the left atrium (LA) and the left ventricle (LV). The mitral valve opens during diastole to allow the blood flow from the LA to the LV. During ventricular systole, the mitral valve closes and prevents backflow to the LA.
During diastole, a normally-functioning mitral valve opens as a result of increased pressure from the left atrium as it fills with blood (preloading). As atrial pressure increases above that of the left ventricle, the mitral valve opens. Opening facilitates the passive flow of blood into the left ventricle.
The mitral, or bicuspid, valve, is located between the left atrium and ventricle. It prevents blood from flowing backwards from the ventricle into the atrium and pulmonary veins.
The mitral valve is located between the left atrium (LA) and left ventricle (LV). When oxygenated blood comes from the lungs into the LA, it goes from the LA to the LV (… diastole). When the LV contracts (systole), it pumps the blood from the LV to the aorta for circulation throughout the body.
The mitral valve (also known as the bicuspid valve or left atrioventricular valve) is a dual-flap (bi-from the Latin, meaning double, and mitral-from the Latin, meaning shaped like a mitre) valve in the heart that lies between the left atrium (LA) and the left ventricle (LV).
The mitral valve (not to be confused with the congenital bicuspid aortic valve) and the tricuspid valve are known collectively as the atrioventricular valves because they lie between the atria and the ventricles of the heart and control the flow of blood.