Brick textured stamped concrete. Stamped concrete is concrete that is patterned and/or textured or embossed to resemble brick, slate, flagstone, stone, tile, wood, and various other patterns and textures. Concrete stamping is the procedure which uses the concrete stamps to make the pattern in the stamped concrete. Concrete stamps are placed on the concrete after the color release has been applied. The concrete stamps are pushed into the concrete and then removed to leav
There are three procedures used in stamped concrete which separate it from other concrete procedures; the addition of a base color, the addition of an accent color, and stamping a pattern into the concrete. These three procedures provide stamped concrete with a color and shape similar to the natural building material. Concrete stamping is the procedure which uses the concrete stamps to make the pattern in the stamped concrete. Concrete stamps are placed on the concrete after the color release has been applied. The concrete stamps are pushed into the concrete and then removed to leav
Weed-Free Driveways and Patios. Follow Us!!! Our imprinted concrete products are used to make beautiful concrete driveways, patterned walls and concrete patios. When correctly laid, there are many advantages to using this product for any areas requiring a suitable hard standing, including paths and pool surrounds. 
Stamped concrete, often called textured or imprinted concrete, is concrete that replicates stones such as slate and flagstone, tile, brick and even wood. Ideal for beautifying pool decks, driveways, entries, courtyards, and patios, stamped concrete is the perfect outdoor paving choice. Recently, stamped concrete has become a popular choice for many homeowners because it offers a wide array of options when it comes to concrete pattern and concrete colors. Stamped Concrete Patterns Discover the most popular patterns for stamping concrete including cobblestone, slate and more. Stamped Concrete Colors Learn how stamped concrete is colored and see what color options are available.
DCS – Decorative Concrete Specialists. DCS are pattern imprinted concrete experts, specialising in driveways, patios, swimming pool surrounds and commercial installations such as theme parks, hotels and drive-thru’s. 
Stamped concrete is commonly used for patios, sidewalks, driveways, pool decks, and interior flooring. The ability of stamped concrete to resemble other building materials makes stamped concrete a less expensive alternative to using those other authentic materials such as stone, slate or brick. Concrete stamping is the procedure which uses the concrete stamps to make the pattern in the stamped concrete. Concrete stamps are placed on the concrete after the color release has been applied. The concrete stamps are pushed into the concrete and then removed to leav
1. Pattern Imprinted Concrete is a method of laying driveways which combines the most up to date concrete technology with the skills of pattern imprinting. This is probably the most superior product you can purchase for driveways, paths and patios, both in terms of its beautiful appearance and its durability
Coloring and stamping the concrete for your driveway will add a lot of curb appeal to your home and also increase the value of your home. European fan pattern. Cobblestone pattern. Stone textured pattern. There are many stamped concrete designs and stamped concrete patterns to choose from. I'll answer those questions and more, so when you're comparing a stamped concrete driveway to other driveway materials, like asphalt or pavers, you'll see why a decorative concrete driveway offers you a much greater value. Stamped concrete is much more durable than those other materials.
So you’re in the market for a new driveway or perhaps you’re building a new home and need to decide how to pave your driveway. Either way, you’ll probably have two traditional options to choose from-concrete or asphalt. They are similar but have key differences you should consider before making a decision. 