It is an excellent plan to hide the model from sight, and see how much, or how little, has penetrated our brain.Afterward try drawing some simple flowers: a snowdrop in a small vase; a crocus—bulb, stem, and flower; a daffodil with a few broad spear-like leaves. The lemon and the tangerine are excellent subjects for this test, because you have contrast of both shape and colour. If you sketch them first with your brush, choose a tint of which they are both composed—say, a very pale yellow. Draw first the lemon, the large, elongated, egg-shaped variety.
One right here, one on this side, and on on the very top. And once you have that, go back to the center circle and draw a few curved lines coming from that circle on to each petal. Then we'll go in and draw some yellow for the pistils. And then green for the stem curving down. And this is an overhead view of the flower. And then you're done.
Put some of these objects on a table, at a little distance from your desk, and sketch them two by two, and side by side. You could draw some with your pencil, and some with your brush. The lemon and the tangerine are excellent subjects for this test, because you have contrast of both shape and colour. If you sketch them first with your brush, choose a tint of which they are both composed—say, a very pale yellow. Draw first the lemon, the large, elongated, egg-shaped variety.
For the myth of the youth Crocus who was turned into a crocus, see Crocus (mythology) . For other uses, see Crocus (disambiguation) . Crocus (English plural: crocuses or croci) is a genus of flowering plants in the iris family comprising 90 species of perennials growing from corms. Bosschaert, working from a preparatory drawing to paint his composed piece spanning the whole of spring, exaggerated the crocus so that it passes for a tulip, but its narrow, grass-like leaves give it away. Saffron gatherers appear in Minoan frescos on the island of Santorini in the Aegean Sea.
The name of the genus is derived from the Greek κρόκος (krokos). This, in turn, is probably a loan word from a Semitic language, related to Hebrew כרכום karkōm, Aramaic ܟܟܘܪܟܟܡܡܐ kurkama, and Arabic كركم kurkum, which mean  saffron  (Crocus sativus), saffron yellow or turmeric (see Curcuma). Bosschaert, working from a preparatory drawing to paint his composed piece spanning the whole of spring, exaggerated the crocus so that it passes for a tulip, but its narrow, grass-like leaves give it away. Saffron gatherers appear in Minoan frescos on the island of Santorini in the Aegean Sea.
How to Draw a Supermodel.... 5. Cancel. Croquis figures can be drawn by following a particular step-by-step process. Learn how to draw Croquis figures with help from an artist in this free video clip. Hi, my name is Erik. I'm an artist. I'm going to show you how to draw croquis figures. Okay, so, a croquis figure is 10 heads tall. So, let's start by just charting the heads. Let's see. Let's start a line up here.
Purple Crocus Drawing. My favorite harbinger of spring – the crocus, in this case, a lovely drawing of a purple crocus. This purple flower image comes from a book that was printed over 150 years ago. The purple crocus drawing was hand-painted with watercolors
Today, I'm going to show you how to draw a crocus flower. You're going to start with a dot in the center. We're going to draw six petals surrounding this. So we're going to draw an oval, come to a point a little bit on top for our first petal. One more over here. And once you have that, go back to the center circle and draw a few curved lines coming from that circle on to each petal. Then we'll go in and draw some yellow for the pistils. And then green for the stem curving down. And this is an overhead view of the flower. And then you're done.
A crocus is a very particular type of flower. Find out how you can draw a crocus flower with help from an artist in this free video clip. And once you have that, go back to the center circle and draw a few curved lines coming from that circle on to each petal. Then we'll go in and draw some yellow for the pistils. And then green for the stem curving down. And this is an overhead view of the flower. And then you're done.