Baby oil is a perfumed mineral oil. Most often, mineral oil is a liquid by-product of refining crude oil to make gasoline and other petroleum products. This type of mineral oil is a transparent, colorless oil composed mainly of alkanes and cycloalkanes, related to petroleum jelly. It has a density of around 0.8 g/cm 3. The name mineral oil by itself is imprecise, having been used for many specific oils over the past few centuries. Other names, similarly imprecise, include white oil, liquid paraffin, pariffinum liquidum (Latin), and liquid petroleum.
Daily use of products containing mineral oil is linked to the early onset of puberty, various cancers (including breast cancer), thyroid disease, blood sugar issues, weight gain, irregular menstruation and depression, to name a few. These mainstream products may also contain mineral oil. It’s recommended that Shea only be used in its pure, raw form (dense and yellow in color). Shea Butter Uses/Treatments: 1  contains Vitamin F for skin moisturizing & chapped, dry lips.
Unfortunately, mass-produced skin care companies often use mineral oil as a filler in their formulas. I had a look into the full ingredient list of the product you mentioned above and it also contains Parabens! It’s mind blowing how a product line so cheaply made can charge $200 ! It has a reputation as being a good oil-stain remover, as it can dilute and liquefy other oils so they can be lifted out with washing. Of course, mineral oil is also used in a ton of personal care products, from baby oil to makeup and from body lotions to cold creams.
It can, however, feel really greasy on skin. So let’s just go with my usual instincts, which is to use natural alternatives. Most cosmetic products use mineral oil as a hydrating ingredient, to promote skin smoothness and softness. Great natural alternatives that not only soften skin, but nourish it with several beneficial ingredients, include shea butter, as well as olive, jojoba, coconut, rose hip seed, and grape seed oils. It has a reputation as being a good oil-stain remover, as it can dilute and liquefy other oils so they can be lifted out with washing. Of course, mineral oil is also used in a ton of personal care products, from baby oil to makeup and from body lotions to cold creams.
MINERAL OIL: If you ever get questioned about whether or not there is MINERAL OIL in Mary Kay products.....here is information for you on how to reply to that. There is also a list of our products that do contain Mineral Oil: This is from the Mary Kay website under ingredients. I looked up Mineral Oil and have included a list of our products where it is an ingredient. It is in our Timewise 3 in 1 cleanser for Normal/Dry skin. I know that we want to share the correct information with our consultants.
PRODUCTS THAT CONTAIN MINERAL OIL. Don’t just look for “mineral oil” on the label. Get familiar with the other names for mineral oil. This toxic ingredient is widely found in lotions and creams, skin cleansers, cold cream (make up remover), perfumes, shampoos, mascara, lipsticks, foundations and other cosmetics. These mainstream products may also contain mineral oil. It’s recommended that Shea only be used in its pure, raw form (dense and yellow in color). Shea Butter Uses/Treatments: 1  contains Vitamin F for skin moisturizing & chapped, dry lips.
Also known as petroleum jelly, it sat on nighstands (Vaseline was the favored brand), and was a staple ingredient in our hand lotions, body lotions, makeup, ointments, and more. Not a lot has changed. You’ll still find mineral oil in hundreds of personal care products, and in thousands of U.S. households. It has a reputation as being a good oil-stain remover, as it can dilute and liquefy other oils so they can be lifted out with washing. Of course, mineral oil is also used in a ton of personal care products, from baby oil to makeup and from body lotions to cold creams.
If you use Oil Of Olay products, you'd better get accustomed to a new name because the new name is simply Olay. This is because many consumers are realizing that the 'oil' in Oil of Olay is mineral oil on skin just isn't a fine idea. In fact, it's a terrible idea and mineral oil safety is highly questionable meaning that Oil of Olay & skin aren't good companions.
Mineral oil is a colorless and odorless oil that’s made from petroleum—as a by-product of the distillation of petroleum to produce gasoline. It’s long been used as a common ingredient in lotions, creams, ointments, and cosmetics. It’s lightweight and inexpensive, and helps reduce water loss from the skin. 
Bad cosmetics and skin care products containing mineral oil and other harmful chemicals run a close second. Because mineral oil based skin care products leave a waxy film barrier, it is very common for cosmetic companies to use SD40 alcohols (isopropyl) in their toners to remove this film. Relatively inexpensive and produced in large quantities, mineral oils are the primary oils used in cosmetics, from baby oil to face creams, lipstick and body lotions, to sunscreen and sun tan oils. Mineral oil is a mixture of aliphatic, naphthalenic and aromatic liquid hydrocarbons derived from petroleum.