TURMERIC Overview Information. Turmeric is a plant. You probably know turmeric as the main spice in curry. It has a warm, bitter taste and is frequently used to flavor or color curry powders, mustards, butters, and cheeses. But the root of turmeric is also used widely to make medicine. Turmeric is used for arthritis, heartburn (dyspepsia), stomach pain, diarrhea, intestinal gas, stomach bloating, loss of appetite, jaundice, liver problems and gallbladder disorders.
Mix one teaspoon of turmeric, 2 teaspoons of rice flour and around 3 teaspoons of yoghurt well until you form a thick paste and apply it on a clean face. Leave it on for 15-20 minutes and wash it off. The combination of turmeric and rice flour is an excellent cure for pimple-prone skin.
Since it possesses anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant properties, turmeric has also been used for thousands of years to treat various skin diseases and heal wounds. Turmeric is available as an ingredient in ointments, capsules, tincture and fluid extracts.
Turmeric is great for your skin! What is Turmeric: Turmeric is a spice used mainly in Asian cooking, specifically Thai and Indian. You're probably familiar with the Indian spice mix called curry. Turmeric plays a big role in that spice mixture. (curry powder mix recipe) It is also a vital ingredient in yellow mustard.
To reduce excess oil secretion from the sebaceous glands: 1  Prepare turmeric scrub by adding some lemon juice and water to turmeric powder to make a paste. 2  Apply on skin with acne and leave on for 15 minutes. 3  Scrub off gently with water. 4  Use turmeric and sandalwood as a face pack for 10 minutes and wash off.
Turmeric is effective in the treatment of acne due to its antiseptic and antibacterial properties that fight pimples and breakouts to provide a youthful glow to your skin. Turmeric face mask not only helps to clear acne scars and inflammation, but also reduces the oil secretion by the sebaceous glands.
It’s a good idea to use it at night and then wash off with water and a gentle cleanser in the morning. As you’ve probably figured out by now, turmeric is not only great for applying on the skin but has a host of wonderful benefits if you ingest it as well.