Hawker HS-125 Series training is available at FlightSafety Learning Centers in Columbus, Ohio; Houston, Texas; London Farnborough, United Kingdom; Wichita, Kansas; and Wilmington, Delaware. We also offer a full range of maintenance training at our Wichita Hawker Beechcraft Maintenance Learning Center. Innovation With One Purpose: Training Corporate Aviation Professionals for Safety and Proficiency FlightSafety International is the world’s leading aviation training organization.
Hawker Beechcraft Corporation (HBC) was an American aerospace manufacturing company that built the Beechcraft and Hawker business jet lines of aircraft between 2006 and 2013. It operated under the name Hawker Beechcraft Corporation (HBC). 2007 marked the 75th anniversary of Beechcraft and the 60th anniversary of the Beechcraft Bonanza, which is the longest running production line of all time. In 2007 and 2008 the company increased its overseas expansion efforts.
Hawker is a great little outback town that welcomes you to the Central Flinders Ranges-the most accessible outback scenery from any capital city in Australia. Please see map below. 
FlightSafety offers training on Hawker and Beechcraft aircraft at Learning Centers in Atlanta, Georgia; Columbus, Ohio; Houston, Texas; LaGuardia Airport, New York; London Farnborough, United Kingdom; Long Beach, California; Wichita, Kansas; and Wilmington, Delaware. We also offer a full range of maintenance training at our Wichita Hawker Beechcraft Maintenance Learning Center. Innovation With One Purpose: Training Corporate Aviation Professionals for Safety and Proficiency FlightSafety International is the world’s leading aviation training organization.
Hawker-Hunter - $4.95. The Hawker Hunter is generally acknowledged to be the best single-seat fighter of the mid-1950s. But the birth of this beautiful baby was not an easy one. The first test flight, on 21 July 1951 made it obvious that a few problems needed to fixed. The Hunter F.Mk 1 entered production in 1953. Britain's Royal Air Force waited a long time for its first native transonic aircraft, but patience-or rather impatience-was finally well rewarded. The Hawker Hunter is generally acknowledged to be the best single-seat fighter of the mid-1950s.
The company headquarters was in Wichita, Kansas, United States, with maintenance and manufacturing locations worldwide. The history of Hawker Beechcraft originated in 1994 when Raytheon merged its Beech Aircraft Corporation and Raytheon Corporate Jets units. It operated under the name Hawker Beechcraft Corporation (HBC). 2007 marked the 75th anniversary of Beechcraft and the 60th anniversary of the Beechcraft Bonanza, which is the longest running production line of all time. In 2007 and 2008 the company increased its overseas expansion efforts.
Support for your aircraft, when you need it, where you need it. Our support for you remains. Hawker Beechcraft Services continues to provide the widest array of maintenance, modification, paint and upgrade services for the full line of Hawker and Beechcraft aircraft, including the Premier and Beechjet/Hawker 400. 
In March 2007, the purchase of Raytheon Aircraft Company was finalised at US$ 3.3B. Hawker Beechcraft Inc. was a new company formed by the Canadian investment firm Onex Partners and GS Capital Partners, an affiliate of global finance house Goldman Sachs. It operated under the name Hawker Beechcraft Corporation (HBC). 2007 marked the 75th anniversary of Beechcraft and the 60th anniversary of the Beechcraft Bonanza, which is the longest running production line of all time. In 2007 and 2008 the company increased its overseas expansion efforts.
'hawker' uses special technique that manages the food delivery which guarantees your food will be kept piping hot and fresh, giving you that authentic 'SHIOK' taste which you can savour just as though you are in the traditional hawker centre. E-COMMERCE. By bringing authentic local food online, revolutionary 'e-hawker ™ ' marketplace is invented, which allows anyone in Singapore to get 'SHIOK' food delivered to their doorsteps and at the same time creating a profitable and sustainable opportunity for business owners.