1 You can pay with a Sears gift card for an oil change at the Sears’ auto center, for example. 2  I expect that the same is true at the Sears vision center. 3  Or, pay for groceries, prescriptions, and more at Kmart.
October 27, 2009  I spoke with an online chat agent at Sears.com and they stated that yes, you indeed can use a Sears Gift card or Credit card at KMART.
October 27, 2009  I spoke with an online chat agent at Sears.com and they stated that yes, you indeed can use a Sears Gift card or Credit card at KMART.
Verdict – If you have bad credit and are looking for a store credit card, perhaps you can consider Sears. But the problem with all store cards is that you can only use them at the store (Sears and Kmart). You might want to consider getting a secured credit card instead, which can be used anywhere. I am not too impressed with the credit card.
The Sears credit card, like many store cards is appealing in the facet that you can get no interest or a percentage off on purchases made at Sears. However this card, like many Department store owned cards has a rather unappealing interest rate.
1 Sears gift cards can be used to pay for just about anything at Sears or Kmart. 2  You can pay with a Sears gift card for an oil change at the Sears’ auto center, for example. 3  I expect that the same is true at the Sears vision center. 4  Or, pay for groceries, prescriptions, and more at Kmart.
YES-according to the back of the gift cards,. I have a SEARS gift card and the back of the card lists a few different stores that you may redeem the card at.
YES-according to the back of the gift cards,. I have a SEARS gift card and the back of the card lists a few different stores that you may redeem the card at. I remember WALMA … RT was one of them.
You can use the plastic Gift Card for purchases at LandsEnd.com, with a phone order, and in Lands' End, Sears and Kmart retail stores. The E-Gift Card may be used the same as a plastic gift card (please present a printed version for purchases at Lands End, Sears, and Kmart retail stores).