Knowledge is the key to disease prevention Infectious diseases are those diseases that horses can get from each other, or via a vector, such as a mosquito, which may transmit the disease from horse to horse. Strangles. This contagious respiratory disease is caused by a bacterial infection. Signs include a fever, thick, yellow, nasal discharge and swollen, abscessed lymph nodes under the jaws. The infection is spread by infected material from nasal discharge or abscesses contaminating stalls, feed troughs, pastures, etc.
Contagious diseases are often caused by the spread of bacteria (such as in scarlet fever) or viruses (such as in chickenpox, measles, hand-foot-and-mouth disease, and quite a few others) in droplets of saliva and mucus, especially when coughing or sneezing. Contagious diseases may also occur by coming in close personal contact with another infected person or even by sharing personal items of an infected person, as in the case with infestation caused by insects (such as with lice and scabies) or a fungal infection (such as in tinea infections, commonly called ringworm).
Of those numerous diseases, perhaps none is more common than infectious diseases, which are defined by WHO as any pathogenic microorganism that can be spread directly or indirectly from one person to another.. In addition, we'll also look at what, if any, global pharmaceutical companies may be able to take advantage of these multi-million-person, and even billion-person, opportunities. So, without further ado, here are the five most common infectious diseases. Hepatitis-B. According to current statistics, hepatitis-B is the most common infectious disease in the world, affecting some 2 billion people -- that's more than one-quarter of the world's population
Infectious diseases arranged by name. There are 216 entries in this list, though some entries such as 'Common cold' include a number of distinct pathogens. 1  Chin J. B., ed. 
Children have maturing immune systems and are often in close proximity to one another, such as in day-care centers, classrooms, and on school busses. This makes the transmission of contagious diseases particularly easy and explains, in part, why these diseases are so common in children. Contagious diseases may also occur by coming in close personal contact with another infected person or even by sharing personal items of an infected person, as in the case with infestation caused by insects (such as with lice and scabies) or a fungal infection (such as in tinea infections, commonly called ringworm).
The most common type of viral disease is the common cold, which is caused by a viral infection of the upper respiratory tract (nose and throat). Other common viral diseases include: Chickenpox. Flu (influenza). Herpes. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV/AIDS). Human papillomavirus (HPV). Infectious mononucleosis. 
Strep Throat. Strep throat is a highly contagious disease caused by the Group A Streptococcus bacteria. The National Institutes of Health reports strep throat as the most common bacterial throat infection. Symptoms that include sore throat, nausea, fever and chills generally appear between two and five days of exposure. The Mayo Clinic reports giardiasis, a highly contagious intestinal parasitic infection, as one of the most common waterborne disease in America. Modes of transmission include infested swimming pools, spas and person-to-person contact. Expect treatment by drugs such as metronidazole or tinidazole when symptoms appear
The following is a list of the most common infectious diseases throughout the world today. Accurate caseload numbers are difficult to determine, especially because so many of these diseases are endemic to developing countries, where many people do not have access to modern medical care. Approximately half of all deaths caused by infectious diseases each year can be attributed to just three diseases: tuberculosis, malaria, and AIDS. Together, these diseases cause over 300 million illnesses and more than 5 million deaths each year.