Full Definition of JUDICIAL. 1. b: belonging to the branch of government that is charged with trying all cases that involve the government and with the administration of justice within its jurisdiction — compare executive, legislative. 2. 3. : of, characterized by, or expressing judgment: critical 1b. 4
The Courts and the Supreme Court. The main body of the judicial branch is the Supreme Court. It is the top court in the United States, and no other court can challenge it. The main job of the Supreme Court is to interpret the Constitution. Like being a referee when two players cry foul, it is the Supreme Court's job to decide who is correct. The judicial branch includes criminal and civil courts and helps interpret the United States Constitution. If the federal government were like a basketball game, the judicial branch is much like the referee that helps settle disputes.
Judicial Branch. The judicial branch of government is made up of the court system. The Supreme Court is the highest court in the land. Article III of the Constitution established this Court and all other Federal courts were created by Congress. Courts decide arguments about the meaning of laws, how they are applied, and whether they break the rules of the Constitution.
The judicial branch is one of three branches of the federal government. The judicial branch includes criminal and civil courts and helps interpret the United States Constitution. If the federal government were like a basketball game, the judicial branch is much like the referee that helps settle disputes.
Judicial Branch Law & Legal Definition. Judicial branch is a branch of the government, along with the Legislature and the Executive. Judicial branch is independent of the other branches. This branch has the sole authority to issue binding opinions on all, on the constitution and laws
The judiciary (also known as the judicial system or court system) is the system of courts that interprets and applies the law in the name of the state. Courts with judicial review power, may annul the laws and rules of the state when it finds them incompatible with a higher norm, such as primary legislation, the provisions of the constitution or international law.
Full Definition of JUDICIARY. 1. a: a system of courts of law b: the judges of these courts. 2. : a branch of government in which judicial power is vested. — judiciary adjective. 
The Judicial Branch of the Government, which is made up of Federal Courts and the Supreme Court, have powers directly vested to it in the Constitution. 3 people found this helpful. 