Cytosine /ˈsaɪtɵsɨn/ (C) is one of the four main bases found in DNA and RNA, along with adenine, guanine, and thymine (uracil in RNA). When found third in a codon of RNA, cytosine is synonymous with uracil, as they are interchangeable as the third base. When found as the second base in a codon, the third is always interchangeable. For example, UCU, UCC, UCA and UCG are all serine, regardless of the third base.
The shape of adenine is complementary to either thymine in DNA or uracil in RNA. Cytosine (C). Cytosine (C) is one of the four main bases found in DNA and RNA, along with adenine, guanine, and thymine (uracil in RNA). It is a pyrimidine derivative, with a heterocyclic aromatic ring and two substituents attached (an amine group at position 4 and a keto group at position 2). The nucleoside of cytosine is cytidine. Guanine (G). Guanine (G) is one of the four main nucleobases found in the nucleic acids DNA and RNA, the others being adenine, cytosine, and thymine (uracil in RNA). In DNA, guanine is paired with cytosine.
1 DNA and RNA base pairing is slightly different, since DNA uses the bases adenine, thymine, cytosine, and guanine; RNA uses adenine, uracil, cytosine, and guanine. 2  Uracil differs from thymine in that it lacks a methyl group on its ring. 
Thymine versus uracil. Our genetic information is stored in the form of DNA, using a four-letter alphabet. The four ‘letters’ correspond to the four chemical bases that each building block of DNA – called a nucleotide – can have: adenine (A), thymine (T), cytosine (C) and guanine (G; see Figure 1). 
uracil is not found in DNA it is thymine in DNA, Uracil is only found in RNA In DNA guanine goes with cytosine Adenine goes with Thymine in RNA G goes with C but the onl … y difference is that Adenine is paired with Uracil. Answered. In Microbiology. No. Uracil is only found in RNA. Its counterpart in DNA is thymine. 2 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body. 2  Electrical impulses are sent along the nervous system to and from the brain that regulate all movement.
Bases are found in both DNA and RNA. As seen below, they are adenine, cytosine, guanine, thymine, and uracil. They are abbreviated (A, C, G, T, U). Three of the bases (A, G, C) are found in both DNA and RNA. However, uracil (U) is found only in RNA and thymine (T) is found only in DNA. The first three are the same as those found in DNA, but in RNA thymine is replaced by uracil as the base complementary to adenine. This base is also a pyrimidine and is very similar to thymine. Uracil is energetically less expensive to produce than thymine, which may account for its use in RNA. In DNA, however, uracil is readily produced by chemical degradation of cytosine, so having thymine as the normal base makes detection and repair of such incipient mutations more efficient