1 Saddam Hussein's Family Tree Saddam Hussein has an extensive family tree. 2  He was born to a single mother in 1937 named Subha Tulfah al-Mussallat. 3  His mother remarried and bore four children with her husb…. 4  The History of Fort Lee Virginia Fort Lee in Virginia goes a long way back in American history.
Sajida was his cousin and the daughter of his uncle, Khairallah Tulfah, who took young Saddam under his wing along with his widowed mother. Saddam and Sajida had five children -- sons Uday and Qusay who were killed by US troops in July 2003 and three daughters, Raghad, Rana and Hala.
Throughout the accusations Saddam remained defiant, claiming that the tribunal was a farce. He also maintained that he was still the true leader of Iraq. I am Saddam Hussein al-Majid, the President of the Republic of Iraq, he announced, as quoted in England's Guardian.
Hussein Kamel al-Majid, Hussein's cousin and son-in-law: His claim to fame is a starring role in the Iraqi film The Long Days, a story about Saddam Hussein's 1959 attempt on the life of then-President abd al-Qassim.
1 Famous Pictures of Saddam Hussein Saddam Hussein ruled over the country of Iraq for 24 years. 2  This notorious dictator was known for his cruelty and brutality. 3  Hussein was captured by U.S. forces in 2003.
His sons-Hussein's half brothers-have played a critical role in government intelligence and security agencies. 1 SADDAM HUSSEIN: Hussein was born April 28, 1937, in the small village of al-Auja near Tikrit. At 20, he joined the Baath party.
Mini Bio (1). Saddam Hussein was a bloody and brutal dictator who kept his country of Iraq at war almost constantly after assuming power in 1979. At least one million people died due to the machinations of Saddam.
Children: Sons Uday Hussein and Qusay Hussein, daughters Raghda, Rana and Hala by first wife, Sajida; son Ali Saddam by second wife, Samira. Uday controlled the media and was named Journalist of the Century by the Iraqi Union of Journalists. Qusay ran the elite Republican Guard and was considered Saddam's heir.
Saddam Hussein was a bloody and brutal dictator who kept his country of Iraq at war almost constantly after assuming power in 1979. At least one million people died due to the machinations of Saddam.