Charles Darwin in the Galapagos. Perhaps our first association with the word Galapagos is the name Darwin.. Darwin's visit to the Galapagos Islands had a resounding impact on the formation of his Theory of Natural Selection. After surveying the coasts of South America, the ship stopped over in the Galapagos Islands. During his visit to the islands, Darwin noted that the unique creatures were similar from island to island, but perfectly adapted to their environments which led him to ponder the origin of the islands' inhabitants.
Charles Darwin’s Famous Visit to the Galapagos Islands. The Galapagos Islands are located just off the coast of Ecuador and have become legendary because of one man-Charles Darwin. Darwin’s famous visit to the Galapagos Islands is indelibly marked in the history books. Charles Darwin was born on 12 February 1809 and is seen today as the father of the theory of evolution. His work as a naturalist, geologist and scientist led to many books and writings on evolution and his theory of how different species originated from common ancestors is still accepted.
By Email By Phone. On his visit to the Galapagos Islands, Charles Darwin discovered several species of finches that varied from island to island, which helped him to develop his theory of natural selection. 
Darwin's field notes on the Galapagos: 'A little world within itself'. Charles Darwin's visit to the Galapagos in 1835 is one of the most famous few weeks in the history of science. The Galapagos entries, which comprise about one quarter of the book, consist of one sequence of 34 pages filled in consecutively while Darwin was in the Galapagos (pp. 18b to 51b), and some brief notes on four other pages (inside front cover, inside back cover, p. 29a and p. 31a).
Backgrounder. Adaptive Radiation: Darwin's Finches: When Charles Darwin stepped ashore on the Galapagos Islands in September 1835, it was the start of five weeks that would change the world of science, although he did not know it at the time. 
Darwin and the HMS Beagle were in Galapagos during the months of September and October of 1835, and during this time Darwin had the opportunity to explore a handful of islands, collecting Galapagos species for use in his research back home. “In a few days time the Beagle will sail for the Galapagos Islands. I look forward with joy and interest to this, both as being somewhat nearer to England and for the sake of having a good look at an active volcano.”. – Charles Darwin, letter to J.S. Henslow, July 12, 1835.
Charles Darwin The Galapagos Galápagos Islands the around the world voyage of THE Hms beagle was mostly to map the coastline Of South. America’darwin s best known discoveries were made on The Galapagos, galápagos islands a group of 16 volcanic islands near the equator about 600 miles from the west Coast Of. south america 