Folic acid or folate is a B vitamin. It is also referred to as vitamin M, vitamin B9, vitamin Bc (or folacin), pteroyl-L-glutamic acid, and pteroyl-L-glutamate. Children and adults both require folate to produce healthy red blood cells and prevent anemia. Folate and folic acid derive their names from the Latin word folium, which means leaf. Folates occur naturally in many foods and, among plants, are especially plentiful in dark green leafy vegetables.
The principal form of supplementary folate is folic acid. It is available in single-ingredient and combination products, such as B-complex vitamins and multivitamins. Doses of 1 mg or greater require a prescription (159) . The only function of folate coenzymes in the body appears to be in mediating the transfer of one-carbon units (2) . Folate coenzymes act as acceptors and donors of one-carbon units in a variety of reactions critical to the metabolism of nucleic acids and amino acids (Figure 2) (3) .
The folic acid molecule. The folic acid molecule. However, scientists still do not fully understand how folic acid decreases neural tube defects, or why folic acid supplementation does not eliminate birth defects in all pregnancies. Now, we've found that mutation of a key folic acid enzyme causes neural tube defects in mice, said Dean Appling, professor of biochemistry in the College of Natural Sciences.
1 Folate is a generic term referring to both natural folates in food and folic acid, the synthetic form used in supplements and fortified food. 2  Folate is critical in the metabolism of nucleic acid precursors and several amino acids, as well as in methylation reactions. ( 3 More information). The only function of folate coenzymes in the body appears to be in mediating the transfer of one-carbon units (2) . Folate coenzymes act as acceptors and donors of one-carbon units in a variety of reactions critical to the metabolism of nucleic acids and amino acids (Figure 2) (3) .
Women who are pregnant or might become pregnant take folic acid to prevent miscarriage and “neural tube defects,” birth defects such as spina bifida that occur when the fetus’s spine and back do not close during development. Some people use folic acid to prevent colon cancer or cervical cancer. Folate and folic acid are forms of a water-soluble B vitamin. Folate occurs naturally in food, and folic acid is the synthetic form of this vitamin. Since 1998, folic acid has been added to cold cereals, flour, breads, pasta, bakery items, cookies, and crackers, as required by federal law.
Food supplement manufacturers often use the term folate for something different from pure folic acid: in chemistry, folate refers to the deprotonated ion, and folic acid to the neutral molecule—which both coexist in water. Children and adults both require folate to produce healthy red blood cells and prevent anemia. Folate and folic acid derive their names from the Latin word folium, which means leaf. Folates occur naturally in many foods and, among plants, are especially plentiful in dark green leafy vegetables.
Folic acid is synthetically produced, and used in fortified foods and supplements on the theory that it is converted into folate. However, folic acid is a synthetic oxidized form, not significantly found in fresh natural foods. Children and adults both require folate to produce healthy red blood cells and prevent anemia. Folate and folic acid derive their names from the Latin word folium, which means leaf. Folates occur naturally in many foods and, among plants, are especially plentiful in dark green leafy vegetables.
Researchers at The University of Texas at Austin have discovered that the lack of a critical enzyme in the folic acid metabolic pathway leads to neural tube birth defects in developing embryos. Now, we've found that mutation of a key folic acid enzyme causes neural tube defects in mice, said Dean Appling, professor of biochemistry in the College of Natural Sciences.
The synthesis of methionine from homocysteine is catalyzed by methionine synthase, an enzyme that not only folate (as 5-methyltetrahydrofolate) but also vitamin B12. Thus, folate (and/or vitamin B 12) deficiency can result in decreased synthesis of methionine and an accumulation of homocysteine. The only function of folate coenzymes in the body appears to be in mediating the transfer of one-carbon units (2) . Folate coenzymes act as acceptors and donors of one-carbon units in a variety of reactions critical to the metabolism of nucleic acids and amino acids (Figure 2) (3) .