The most common issue of the Respiratory System would be Asthma. Asthma is the chronic inflammatory of the airways, caused by many complications. Common symptoms of Asthma may be coughing, having a heavy chest, and shortness of breath. Our Cardiovascular Systems are closed, which means that blood never leaves the network of blood vessels or the blood network. While the Cardiovascular System is closed, our Lymphatic System is open. Information I Have Learned. The Circulatory System is made up of the Lymphatic System and the Cardiovascular System.
Diseases and conditions of the respiratory system fall into two categories: Viruses such as influenza, bacterial pneumonia and the new enterovirus respiratory virus that has been diagnosed in children; and chronic diseases, such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The human respiratory system is a series of organs responsible for taking in oxygen and expelling carbon dioxide. The primary organs of the respiratory system are lungs, which carry out this exchange of gases as we breathe.
The definition of Asthma; a disease of the respiratory system, sometimes caused by allergies, with symptoms including coughing, sudden difficulty in breathing, and a tight feeling in the chest (Encarta® World English Dictionary[North American Edition], 2009). The airways of the lungs are the tubes that transport air in and out of the body. Asthma patient's airways are inflamed and sensitive to certain substances. When the airway reacts to these substances the muscles in the airway start tightening and narrowing the airway and prevents the normal amount of air to the lungs.
Heat Waves. Years such as 1994 and 2011, with their many heat waves, have proven to be particularly bad in terms of general U.S. air quality.(3) This is a critical trigger element for the respiratory system of asthma sufferers. 
The point is, without the respiratory system your blood would be useless. The circulatory and respiratory systems work together to circulate blood and oxygen throughout the body. Air moves in and out of the lungs through the trachea, bronchi, and bronchioles. Blood moves in and out of the lungs through the pulmonary arteries and veins that connect to the heart. The structures of the respiratory system interact with structures of the skeletal, circulatory, and muscular systems to help you smell, speak, and move oxygen into your bloodstream and waste out of it. We're going to take a look at the relationships between these systems and how they work to keep you breathing 24/7/365.
Asthma is a chronic a lung disease that inflames and narrows the airways. The airways of the lungs are the tubes that transport air in and out of the body. Asthma patient's airways are inflamed and sensitive to certain substances. When the airway reacts to these substances the muscles in the airway start tightening and narrowing the airway and prevents the normal amount of air to the lungs.
The circulatory system has a close interrelationship with the respiratory system. The main organ of the respiratory system is the lungs. The diaphragm is a muscle located underneath the heart and lungs that contracts to pull air into the lungs and relaxes to force air out of the lungs. When the air enters the lungs, it travels through the bronchi to tiny air sacs called alveoli. Circulatory System. The circulatory system consists of the heart, blood, and blood vessels. There are three types of blood vessels: arteries, veins and capillaries. The heart is an organ made of cardiac muscle and it acts like a pump.
The respiratory system (called also respiratory apparatus, ventilatory system) is a biological system consisting of specific organs and structures used for the process of respiration in an organism. The passage of air into the lungs to supply the body with oxygen is known as inhalation, and the passage of air out of the lungs to expel carbon dioxide is known as exhalation; this process is collectively called breathing or ventilation.
All living things have a respiratory system, including plants and animal life. The differences are mostly the difference in parts, such as lungs, trachea, bronchi, and diaphragm. The most important part of the respiratory systems are the lungs. Lungs take in oxygen and release carbon dioxide which allows us to breath. The trachea is located somewhere near our throat, and it filters the air we breathe in and branches or sends it to the bronchi. Our Cardiovascular Systems are closed, which means that blood never leaves the network of blood vessels or the blood network. While the Cardiovascular System is closed, our Lymphatic System is open. Information I Have Learned. The Circulatory System is made up of the Lymphatic System and the Cardiovascular System.