GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications) is the world's most popular wireless phone technology. It's used by more than one billion people around the world. At AT&T, we offer a nationwide GSM/GPRS footprint across 100 percent of our service area.
GSM is a TDMA based wireless network technology developed in Europe that is used throughout most of the world. GSM phones make use of a SIM card to identify the user's account. The use of the SIM card allows GSM network users to quickly move their phone number from one GSM phone to another by simply moving the SIM card.
An unlocked phone is required to use a GSM SIM card. Phones on a GSM network typically use a SIM card. Most GSM antenna towers today include receivers and transmitters for both voice and data. Communications satellites may be part of a GSM network.
An unlocked GSM phone. A SIM card for an unlocked GSM phone. New SIM cards can be placed into an unlocked GSM phone. An unlocked GSM phone can be used with any other carrier who also uses a GSM network. The ability to unlock a cell phone depends on the type of phone and the technology associated with it.
CDMA and GSM networks are two types of cellular phone networks and generally if you have a device made for one, it can't be used on the other. In the US, Sprint®* and Verizon run on CDMA networks while AT&T and T-Mobile run on GSM networks.
The Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) network is the standard system used by most mobile phone networks around the world.
GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications, originally Groupe Special Spécial), mobile is a standard developed by The European Telecommunications Standards (INSTITUTE) etsi to describe the protocols for-second (GENERATION) 2g digital cellular networks used by mobile, phones first deployed In finland In july. 1991
GSM is a cellular network, which means that cell phones connect to it by searching for cells in the immediate vicinity. There are five different cell sizes in a GSM network— macro, micro, pico, femto, and umbrella cells.
GSM, or Global System for Mobile, is the primary type of technology used for cell phones in the rest of the world. Within the United States, a much small number of network service providers are on the GSM standard, among them T-Mobile and AT and T.