How many years of university do you need to become a doctor?   To become an MD you need 4 years of collage and 4 years in med school. A very few do it in less time (7 years total), quite a few take longer. 5 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Liam Frayne. 27,068 Contributions. Synthesist, Photo and Electrochemical PhD student at Dublin City University. Technically, you need at least 5 A-C grades to apply. But in reality, most of your applicants have 9-12 GCSEs, the vast majority with A*s and As. As an example, I ea … rned 4 A*s and 5As at GCSE, 4As and a B at AS level and 3As at A2 to get my place.
Not many if you want to try it in Sligo I.T. DCU do analytical science which has some forensic science modules (Average around 400 points). There may be other courses, but the … re is little chance of having a career out of it in this country. Edit: Due to the new initiative of 25 points for higher level maths, you can expect at least an increase of 25 points compared to last year, which was 425 in 2011/2012.
Time. Family. Weigh the factors that go into your decision to become a doctor. If you are struggling with whether or not medicine is right for you, the first thing to do is take a realistic look at what it takes to get there and what the job of becoming a doctor in the United States is actually like. Many factors must be considered when making the decision. However, if helping others is important to you, but being a doctor is not the right fit, there are many other physician career options you can consider. And keep in mind that politicians, religious leaders, and social workers all have the opportunity to help others, perhaps in larger numbers.
Uh..I had a classmate who instead of taking medical school went to the Caribbean for a 3 year medical program. The living conditions weren't that great but it was possible to become a doctor in just 3 years by taking that course and going to Chicago and taking the doctor's test there. You have to undergrad in a pre-med program, and then enroll in med school. All in all, it will take about 7 years, and thats just the eductation, not counting the search for interships and jobs that will build your reputation. binks · 7 years ago. Thumbs up.
Becoming a doctor takes time. Usually four years of undergraduate studies, four years of medical school, then 3-6 years of residency (depending on your specialty). That's an average of twelve years from starting college to practicing medicine. However, if helping others is important to you, but being a doctor is not the right fit, there are many other physician career options you can consider. And keep in mind that politicians, religious leaders, and social workers all have the opportunity to help others, perhaps in larger numbers.
Confidence votes 53. The system has just changed last year, so it's more than points you need. There are three criteria to fulfil: Leaving Cert points, subjects, and HPAT score. Leaving Cert points normally work on a supply and demand principle, but for Medicine they are fixed and have a special arrangement. You need to have a minimum of 480 to be eligible. Note that once you reach 550 though, the points become less important. Every subsequent 5 points is reduced to 1 e.g. 565 becomes 553, up to 600, which becomes 560(max). This does not affect your points for other courses. There may be other courses, but the … re is little chance of having a career out of it in this country. Edit: Due to the new initiative of 25 points for higher level maths, you can expect at least an increase of 25 points compared to last year, which was 425 in 2011/2012.
In a residency, doctors will receive paid, on-the-job training. These can last anywhere from 3-7 years, depending on the specialty. Residencies take place in a hospital and offer an opportunity for medical school graduates to begin treating patients under the supervision of an experienced doctor. 
Interesting post. It is difficult to become very rich by being a doctor, you will be comfortable, yes, but to be very rich requires some extra knowledge not taught in medical school. I didn’t know 48 hour call duties are a thing of the past – will have to widely circulate that all important memo. 4. A good nights sleep. Gone are the days where doctors would be on call for 48 or 72 hours and then do a clinic for the boss before retiring to bed. However, modern working arrangements have brought into existence the ‘week of nights’ where you work 4 or 5 and sometimes 7 night shifts in a row.