Heel is the command for your dog to walk at your side not in front or behind choose a side that is best suited for you for gun dogs its usually the opposite side of your dominant hand. Stick with whatever side you choose so the dog will not get confused.
When your dog is in the heeling position it means he/she is virtually pinned to your left leg (not touching though) and must stay there until released by you. Heeling is a difficult skill for your dog to master, it must be taught slowly and built piece by piece.
Training a dog in obedience can be an ongoing and lengthy process depending on the dog, the methods used, and the skill and understanding of both the trainer and the handler.
Firstly I should say that teaching a dog to heel is a different skill than training a dog to walk on a loose leash. Training a dog to heel relies on getting and holding the attention of your dog. The heel can be called upon for short periods (like when other dogs or children are around) but is not suitable for your long daily walks.
When you ask a dog to heel you are asking the dog to come to your side, by the heel of your foot. You want to teach the dog to follow you in the heel position. That is, if you begin to walk, the dog will follow at your heel without pulling on the leash, if you stop walking the dog will stop as well.
Training a dog to heel can start off the leash with treats and positive reinforcement before continuing training on the leash during walks. Teach a dog to heel on command with a certified dog trainer in this free video on dog obedience. Expert: Nancy Cusick. Contact: www.TrainMyDogs.com.
Best Answer: Heel means for the dog to be in the heel position. Heel position can be with the dog sitting, standing, lying down or walking with you. The dog is at the handler's LEFT side straight in line with the direction the handler is facing. The dog's head to shoulder is in line with the handler's left hip.
A lot of puppy and dog training classes teach the heel command only in the advanced classes. The heel command should actually be one of the first things you teach your puppy or dog. They need to learn how to follow. Once you establish this all other aspects of training will be easier and their behavior in general will be better as the dog will learn to respect you as the leader.