According to this theory, an acid is a proton donor and a base is a proton acceptor.. Acids are often divided into categories such as strong and weak.. One measure of the strength of an acid is the acid-dissociation equilibrium constant, K a, for that acid. When K a is relatively large, we have a strong acid. 
Br nsted-Lowry Acids and Bases A Bronsted-Lowry acid is defined as anything that releases H1+ ions; a Bronsted-Lowry base is defined as anything that accepts H1+ ions. This definition includes all Arrhenius acids and bases but, as we will soon see, it is a bit more general. In this reaction the ammonia behaves as the proton acceptor, a Bronsted-Lowry base, while the HCl serves as the proton donor, a Bronsted-Lowry acid.
Bronsted defines a base as a substance that can accept a proton and acid as a substance that can give out a proton. Bronsted put this theory forward in 1923. At the same time, Thomas Lowry independently presented the same theory. Therefore, this definition is known as Bronsted-Lowry definition. • Bronsted defines an acid as a proton donor whereas Lewis defines an acid as an electron pair acceptor. • According to the Bronsted theory, a base is a proton acceptor. According to the Lewis theory a base is an electron pair donor.
1 the Bronsted (or Bronsted-Lowry) definition: an acid is a proton (H+ ion) donor, and a base is a proton acceptor; 2  the Lewis definition: an acid is an electron acceptor, and a base is an electron donor. Acids and Bases: Lewis vs. Bronsted. There are two complementary definitions of acids and bases that are important: 1 
Arrhenius Acid Definition: Hydronium breaks up to yield an H+ in solution. Arrhenius Base Definition: Hydroxide is an OH-dissolved in water. Bronsted-Lowry Acid Definition: Hydronium is an H+ donor regardless of solution. Bronsted-Lowry Base Definition: Hydroxide attacks and accepts the H+ from hydronium. Lewis Acid Definition: The H+ on Hydronium accepts the attacking electron pair to form a bond
As a result, the Bronsted-Lowry acid-base reaction produces a conjugate acid and a conjugate base. The conjugate acid is the substance that results from when the Bronsted-Lowry base accepts a proton (hydrogen atom), and the conjugate base is what results after the acid has donated a proton (hydrogen atom). Let's take a close look again at the Bronsted-Lowry acid-base reaction. We can see that when an acid donates a proton, the resulting product is a conjugate base. When the base accepts a proton, the resulting product that is formed is a conjugate acid.
The Bronsted-Lowry definition of acids and bases is pretty simple. An acid is a proton donor, and a base is a proton acceptor. In the example of ammonia dissolving in water (NH3 + H2O = NH4+ + OH-) the water donates a proton, so it is the acid. The hydroxide ion is accepting the proton and is called a conjugate base. Every Bronsted-Lowry acid has a conjugate base, and every Bronsted-Lowry base has a conjugate acid. 1  Conjugate acid: an acid that forms when a base gains a proton. 2  Conjugate base: a base that forms when an acid lose
A Bronsted-Lowry base is a solution that behaves as proton acceptors, and these protons are in the form of a hydrogen (H+) ion. The solution that behaves as a proton donor is called a Bronsted-Lowry acid. Let's take a close look again at the Bronsted-Lowry acid-base reaction. We can see that when an acid donates a proton, the resulting product is a conjugate base. When the base accepts a proton, the resulting product that is formed is a conjugate acid.
The Bronsted-Lowry Theory of acids and bases The theory An acid is a proton (hydrogen ion) donor. A base is a proton (hydrogen ion) acceptor. The relationship between the Bronsted-Lowry theory and the Arrhenius theory The Bronsted-Lowry theory doesn't go against the Arrhenius theory in any way-it just adds to it. The theory An acid is an electron pair acceptor. A base is an electron pair donor. The relationship between the Lewis theory and the Bronsted-Lowry theory Lewis bases It is easiest to see the relationship by looking at exactly what Bronsted-Lowry bases do when they accept hydrogen ions.
In contrast to the acid definition, a Bronsted-Lowry base is a substance that accepts protons. An example of a proton acceptor is ammonia (NH3). The ammonia is happy to accept a proton from the hydrogen of water (H2O) to become NH4. NH3 + H2O = NH4+ + OH-. The hydroxide ion is accepting the proton and is called a conjugate base. Every Bronsted-Lowry acid has a conjugate base, and every Bronsted-Lowry base has a conjugate acid. 1  Conjugate acid: an acid that forms when a base gains a proton. 2  Conjugate base: a base that forms when an acid lose