Be the first to review this Drug. Isosorbide mononitrate is in a group of drugs called nitrates. Isosorbide mononitrate dilates (widens) blood vessels, making it easier for blood to flow through them and easier for the heart to pump. Isosorbide mononitrate is used to prevent angina attacks (chest pain).
INDICATIONS. Isosorbide Mononitrate is a nitrate drug. It is used to prevent chest pain (angina) and reduce strain on the heart in patients with heart disease (coronary artery disease). Isosorbide mononitrate relaxes and widens blood vessels so blood can flow more easily. This medication will not relieve chest pain once it occurs
Imdur is used to prevent angina. Angina is a pain or uncomfortable feeling in the chest, often spreading to the arms or the neck and sometimes to the shoulders and back. This is caused by too little blood and oxygen getting to the heart. The pain of angina is usually brought on by exercise or stress. 
Uses. Isosorbide mononitrate is used to prevent chest pain (angina) in patients with a certain heart condition (coronary artery disease). This medication belongs to a class of drugs known as nitrates. It works by relaxing and widening blood vessels so blood can flow more easily to the heart. Use this drug for a condition that is listed in this section only if it has been so prescribed by your health care professional. This medication may also be used with other drugs to improve symptoms of heart failure (such as trouble breathing).
Isosorbide mononitrate is in a group of drugs called nitrates. Isosorbide mononitrate dilates (widens) blood vessels, making it easier for blood to flow through them and easier for the heart to pump. Isosorbide mononitrate is used to prevent angina attacks (chest pain). 
Isosorbide mononitrate is in a group of drugs called nitrates. Isosorbide mononitrate dilates (widens) blood vessels, making it easier for blood to flow through them and easier for the heart to pump. Isosorbide mononitrate is used to prevent angina attacks (chest pain). Isosorbide mononitrate will not treat an angina attack that has already begun.
Isosorbide mononitrate is a drug used principally in the treatment of angina pectoris and acts by dilating the blood vessels so as to reduce the blood pressure. Isosorbide mononitrate is a nitrate-class drug used for the prophylactic treatment of angina pectoris; that is, it is taken in order to prevent or at least reduce the occurrence of angina.
How to use Imdur oral. Isosorbide mononitrate is used to prevent chest pain (angina) in patients with a certain heart condition (coronary artery disease). This medication belongs to a class of drugs known as nitrates. It works by relaxing and widening blood vessels so blood can flow more easily to the heart. 