1 Bacterial meningitis is the most severe and serious type of meningitis. 2  It occurs when bacteria migrates to the brain and spinal cord from the bloodstream. 3  In some cases, bacteria can directly invade the meninges as a result of physical trauma to the skull or from an ear or sinus infection. 1 Non-infectious meningitis due to allergic reaction or autoimmune disease may be treated with cortisone-like medications. 2  In some cases, no treatment may be required, because the condition can resolve on its own. 3  Cancer related meningitis will also resolve itself when the underlying cancer is treated.
Cerebrospinal fluid is watery layer of cushion just beneath the meninges that bathes and protects the brain and spinal cord from physical impact. Meningitis is usually caused by either a bacteria or virus. Viral meningitis is generally self-limitingmeaning that it disappears on its own without any treatment. Bacterial meningitis, on the other hand, can be quite severe and can lead to permanent hearing loss, learning disability, or other types of brain damage. 
Viral meningitis. Meningitis is an inflammation of the lining around the brain and spinal cord. Viruses probably account for most cases of meningitis and are an important cause of admission to hospital[1]. Symptoms of viral meningitis include headache, dislike of bright lights, neck stiffness, fever and nausea/vomiting. Individuals may also develop a rash or have muscle pain.
Most people with viral meningitis usually get better on their own within 7 to 10 days. Initial symptoms of viral meningitis are similar to those for bacterial meningitis. However, bacterial meningitis is usually severe and can cause serious complications, such as brain damage, hearing loss, or learning disabilities. Meningitis is an inflammation of the tissue that covers the brain and spinal cord. Viral meningitis is the most common type of meningitis. It is often less severe than bacterial meningitis, and most people usually get better on their own (without treatment). However, infants younger than 1 month old and people with weakened immune systems are more likely to have severe illnes
Meningitis is a term used to describe inflammation of the membranes that surround the brain and spinal cord. Usually, the inflammation is caused by a viral or bacterial infection. Meningitis can be very serious, even life threatening, but it can also sometimes resolve on its own after a few weeks. History of Meningitis. The origins of what we now know as meningitis is not known. It seems Hippocrates was aware of the existence of swelling of the membranes around the spinal cord and brain.
Causes. Meningitis can be caused by the following the infectious agents: 1  Bacteria. 2  Bacterial meningitis is the most severe and serious type of meningitis. 3  It occurs when bacteria migrates to the brain and spinal cord from the bloodstream. 1 Non-infectious meningitis due to allergic reaction or autoimmune disease may be treated with cortisone-like medications. 2  In some cases, no treatment may be required, because the condition can resolve on its own. 3  Cancer related meningitis will also resolve itself when the underlying cancer is treated.
1 Bacteria. 2  Bacterial meningitis is the most severe and serious type of meningitis. 3  It occurs when bacteria migrates to the brain and spinal cord from the bloodstream. 4  In some cases, bacteria can directly invade the meninges as a result of physical trauma to the skull or from an ear or sinus infection. 1 Non-infectious meningitis due to allergic reaction or autoimmune disease may be treated with cortisone-like medications. 2  In some cases, no treatment may be required, because the condition can resolve on its own. 3  Cancer related meningitis will also resolve itself when the underlying cancer is treated.
Meningitis is an inflammation of coverings (meninges) of the brain and spinal cord. Most often it is caused by a viral or bacterial infection. Other infectious agents such as fungi can also cause meningitis. Rarer causes of meningitis include atypical drug reactions and systemic lupus erythematosus. Viral meningitis due to enterovirus peaks in mid-summer through early autumn. But it can occur any time of the year. Except for the rare case of herpes meningitis, viral meningitis will resolve on its own after 7 to 10 days. Bacterial meningitis, formerly called spinal meningitis, is a very serious and potentially fatal infection. It can strike very healthy people, but infants and older people are more susceptible