Field greens, baby lettuces, lamb's lettuce, arugula...chic gardeners and gastronomes (sorry, I can't stand the word foodie) everywhere want every leaf imaginable in their salad bowl except one: iceberg lettuce. The biggest difference between these two lettuce traditions is the stage of maturity at harvest and the manner of harvesting. In France, batavias are harvested young, with the dense head at the center unformed or just beginning to form. All the skirt (outer) leaves are cut along with the head.
'lettuce' also found in translations in French-English dictionary. pied de laitue. pied de laitue. exp. lettuce plant. coeur de laitue. coeur de laitue. nm. Search also in: Web News Encyclopedia Images Context. lettuce n (=salad leaves) salade f (=plant) laitue f cos lettuce n laitue f romaine f, romaine curly lettuce n laitue f frisee frisée iceberg lettuce n laitue f. iceberg
1 any of various plants of the genus Lactuca, esp L. sativa, which is cultivated in many varieties for its large edible leaves: family Asteraceae (composites). 2  the leaves of any of these varieties, which are eaten in salads. 3  any of various plants that resemble true lettuce, such as lamb's lettuce and sea lettuce. 
Lactuca sativa is a member of the Lactuca (lettuce) genus and the Asteraceae (sunflower or aster) family. The species was first described in 1753 by Carl Linnaeus in the second volume of his Species Plantarum. Synonyms for L. sativa include Lactuca scariola var. Today, the majority of lettuce is grown for its leaves, although one type is grown for its stem and one for its seeds, which are made into an oil. Most lettuce is used in salads, either alone or with other greens, vegetables, meats and cheeses.
2. (Plants) the leaves of any of these varieties, which are eaten in salads. 3. (Plants) any of various plants that resemble true lettuce, such as lamb's lettuce and sea lettuce. [C13: probably from Old French laitues, pl of laitue, from Latin lactūca, from lac-milk, because of its milky juice]. (ˈlɛt ɪs). 2. 'lettuce'. A salad usually includes the large green leaves of a vegetable called a lettuce. . Don't refer to this vegetable as a 'salad'. Tear the lettuce into small pieces and mix it with the dressing.
1 Verlaine's chine was stuffed with leeks, spring onions, lettuce, raspberry leaves, parsley, thyme and marjoram. 2  At home we grow sweetcorn, beans, tomatoes, carrots, lettuce, garlic and leeks. 3  In the vegetable garden, carrots, spring onions, lettuce, spinach and radishes can all be planted. Example sentences. 1  Verlaine's chine was stuffed with leeks, spring onions, lettuce, raspberry leaves, parsley, thyme and marjoram. 2  At home we grow sweetcorn, beans, tomatoes, carrots, lettuce, garlic and leeks. 3  In the vegetable garden, carrots, spring onions, lettuce, spinach and radishes can all be planted.
Lettuce (Lactuca sativa) is an annual plant of the daisy family Asteraceae. It is most often grown as a leaf vegetable, but sometimes for its stem and seeds. Today, the majority of lettuce is grown for its leaves, although one type is grown for its stem and one for its seeds, which are made into an oil. Most lettuce is used in salads, either alone or with other greens, vegetables, meats and cheeses.
1 She ​ tossed the lettuce in ​ French ​ dressing. 2  I'd like a ​ ham ​ sandwich on ​ rye, ​ hold the lettuce. 3  Shred the lettuce and ​ arrange it around the ​ edge of the ​ dish. 4  One ​ sandwich and a lettuce ​ leaf-I don't ​ call that a ​ meal 5  ! Shred the ​ heart of a lettuce and put it in a ​ large ​ bowl. More examples. 1 
Origin. Middle English: from Old French letues, laitues, plural of laitue, from Latin lactuca, from lac, lact- 'milk' (because of its milky juice). More. Lettuce came into English from Old French letues or laitues, from Latin lactuca, whose root was lac ‘milk’—the connection was the milky juice that lettuce produces. Latin lac also gave us lactic (late 18th century), ‘relating to milk’. Example sentences. 1  Verlaine's chine was stuffed with leeks, spring onions, lettuce, raspberry leaves, parsley, thyme and marjoram. 2  At home we grow sweetcorn, beans, tomatoes, carrots, lettuce, garlic and leeks. 3  In the vegetable garden, carrots, spring onions, lettuce, spinach and radishes can all be planted.