Though there are almost no restrictions on the occasion or meaning of a lei gift, if you are the recipient of a lei, there are a few guidelines to follow. A lei is a very special, hand-woven gift, and it is considered rude to refuse on.
When a person gives someone a lei, it symbolizes their affection towards the other. Leis are commonly presented when someone is arriving and leaving, so it’s no surprise that leis are given to graduates as they are leaving school and arriving to this new stage of life.
Green Maile Ti Leaf Leis – Ti Leaf Leis symbolize admiration, appreciation and respect. Ti leaf leis are often used as gifts for weddings, graduations, anniversaries and memorials. Kukui Nuts Leis – The Kukui nut lei was once a symbol of royalty. These brown leis are given to show respect or appreciation.
The lei is given as a symbol of the “spirit of aloha,” which means a greeting, farewell, joy, hope, love, or other positive feelings. Leis made of beautiful flowers are meant as a non-verbal expression of aloha spirit. In Hawaii, leis are almost always seen at weddings.
From a tourist's standpoint, the lei is a symbol of welcome, as indeed it is to the locals, though that isn't the lei's only meaning. Before the invention of planes, travelers arrived by boat and got quite a greeting: hula dancers, music, photographers and, of course, lei presenters.
Depending on the occasion’s symbolism, different flower varieties or colors can be incorporated into the lei. Leis are also used in various religious ceremonies, where lei rituals are completed to ask the gods for safety when traveling or fishing or for fertile crops.
With the advent of tourism in the islands, the lei quickly became the symbol of Hawaii to millions of visitors worldwide. During the Boat Days of the early 1900s, lei vendors lined the pier at Aloha Tower to welcome malihini (visitors) to the islands and kama'aina (locals) back home.
John and I were greeted with beautiful fragrant Hawaiian Flower Leis at the Honolulu Airport. Hawaii Discount offers a variety of Lei Greetings such as Superior Leis, Deluxe Leis, Standard Leis, Ti Leis, KuKui Nut Leis and Candy Leis.
Many visitors even receive a lei when they arrive to Hawaii on vacation. They are said to represent the “spirit of aloha,” which can mean several different feelings, including a greeting, farewell, hope, joy, or love. A lei created from beautiful flowers is meant to represent a non-verbal expression of aloha.