GSDP board backs redesign of state flag. Posted 10/6/2015 in Starkville & Oktibbeha County. The Greater Starkville Development Board of Directors is asking Starkville aldermen and Oktibbeha County supervisors to issue resolutions calling upon lawmakers to redesign the Mississippi state flag. Balcony at Starkville project breaks ground today. Posted yesterday in Starkville & Oktibbeha County. PLC Partners LLC will hold a ground-breaking ceremony at 2 p.m. today at 210 South Montgomery St. for the Balcony at Starkville, a proposed four-story development in Starkville.
Posted 9/30/2015 in Starkville & Oktibbeha County. Starkville has paid off a large chunk of its park system's late electric bill since the summer takeover of the once autonomous department and is positioning itself to pay off all arrears this spring, Mayor Parker Wiseman said Tuesday. Balcony at Starkville project breaks ground today. Posted yesterday in Starkville & Oktibbeha County. PLC Partners LLC will hold a ground-breaking ceremony at 2 p.m. today at 210 South Montgomery St. for the Balcony at Starkville, a proposed four-story development in Starkville.
Starkville is a city in Mississippi, United States. It is the county seat of Oktibbeha County. The Starkville Micropolitan Statistical Area includes all of Oktibbeha County. The population was 23,888 at the 2010 census. The campus of Mississippi State University is located directly to the east of Starkville. On March 21, 2006, Starkville became the first city in Mississippi to adopt a smoking ban for indoor public places, including restaurants and bars. This ordinance went into effect on May 20, 2006.
Library Databases. Starkville-Oktibbeha County Public Library System offers several online services for patrons to access both in the library and at home. Please see the brief information by each to find out how to access the service. Magnolia in library use Magnolia at home use – Call the library for the login information.
Please visit their site to learn more about Starkville and Oktibbeha County to read the Timeline in its entirety. The area of Oktibbeha county was originally a part of the lands belonging to the Choctaw Indians. Part of the rapidly developing Golden Triangle Area, Starkville and Oktibbeha County have enjoyed impressive growth in the past two decades. While proud of their heritage they seek today to provide a diverse economic and cultural base upon which to build confidently for the future. .
Starkville served as the trade center for the county, but probably had a population of only 150 - most people, even professionals, preferring to live in the country. The Civil War was hard on Oktibbeha County as it was on the rest of Mississippi. Large numbers of its white men volunteered for Confederate service and the farms suffered. Grierson's raiders came through the region in the spring of 1863 and looted Starkville. Part of the rapidly developing Golden Triangle Area, Starkville and Oktibbeha County have enjoyed impressive growth in the past two decades. While proud of their heritage they seek today to provide a diverse economic and cultural base upon which to build confidently for the future. .
Starkville continues trimming Horse Park contribution. Posted 9/24/2015 in Starkville & Oktibbeha County. Starkville aldermen have continuously cut outside contributions to the Mississippi Horse Park this term and will do so again in the upcoming Fiscal Year 2015-2016 budget. Balcony at Starkville project breaks ground today. Posted yesterday in Starkville & Oktibbeha County. PLC Partners LLC will hold a ground-breaking ceremony at 2 p.m. today at 210 South Montgomery St. for the Balcony at Starkville, a proposed four-story development in Starkville.
Arrests. Arrests are public information and is available below in multiple format for your convinence. Please note this information is updated daily at approximately mid-night. 