Function. Mechanical contractors are the professionals responsible for the installation of plumbing, heating, cooling, air-conditioning, refrigeration and ventilation systems. Before beginning a job, a mechanical contractor estimates in writing how long it will take to complete a particular job and how much it will cost, and then must complete all required work according to that schedule and in that price range.
Re: Definition Mechanical Contractor. A mechanical contractor does do electrical and plumbing but just on the system they are working on. They do heating, AC, and ventalation. Most plumbers are also mechanical contractors which is why most people think plumbers do HVAC. I worked with a mechanical contractor yesterday and today on a cold storage building used for apples on a farm. Re: Definition Mechanical Contractor. Here in michigan there is a electrical contractor license, plumbing contractor license, and a mechanical contractor license. Mechanical is HVAC, no plumbing or electrical.
Function. Mechanical contractors are responsible for installing the plumbing, ventilation, air conditioning, heating and refrigeration systems in buildings. The term can apply to an individual contractor or an entire company. Mechanical contractors or contracting companies are required to be licensed in some states; for individuals this often requires passing a written examination. Many mechanical contractors have a bachelor's degree in construction management, while others have training from technical schools.
A mechanical contractor is someone who works with a team of professionals involved in construction. They are responsible for installing the ventilation, air conditioning, heating, refrigeration systems and plumbing in buildings. 
Features. Before beginning a job, a mechanical contractor estimates in writing how long it will take to complete a particular job and how much it will cost, and then must complete all required work according to that schedule and in that price range.
Home. Mechanical Contractors has been in business since March of 1998, We have extremely qualified personnel in both the millwright and industrial piping industry. By July of this year over 90% of employees will have attended OSHA 10 training with the supervisors having attended OSHA 30. Mechanical Contractors has a dedicated safety professional, which can train for forklift use, OSHA 10 and 30, he is also a trainer for crane signaling and rigging. He does spot checks on job sites to ensure the HAZMAT and MSD’S are up to date. He will also check the job site to ensure safety is NUMBER 1.
Mechanical contractor = plumber plus one or several other related trades. On a job where a mechanical contractor is working, there might also be a plumbing contractor and an electrical contractor doing the major plumbing and electrical work. Re: Definition Mechanical Contractor. Here in michigan there is a electrical contractor license, plumbing contractor license, and a mechanical contractor license. Mechanical is HVAC, no plumbing or electrical.
Types. Some mechanical contractors specialize in one particular type of new construction or remodeling, such as residences like houses, commercial buildings like retail establishments and office buildings, institutions like schools and hospitals, or industrial buildings like factories or power plants. Before beginning a job, a mechanical contractor estimates in writing how long it will take to complete a particular job and how much it will cost, and then must complete all required work according to that schedule and in that price range.
All mechanical contractor mechanical contractor business (including home, mobile, and online businesses) need a(n) in Metuchen businesses, MUST Obtain a(n) Business License business permit. 08840. Middlesex County What To Do For A Mechanical Contractor License small new business. What To Do For A Mechanical Contractor License. mechanical contractor Permit Metuchen Business License 08840 mechanical contractor Business Plan Template NJ Business License mechanical contractor mechanical contractor Middlesex County DBA Fictitious Business Name.
MCAA represents more than 2,800 of the industry’s most innovative mechanical construction, plumbing and service firms across the United States. They install and service technologically advanced and energy-efficient heating, air conditioning, refrigeration, plumbing and piping systems. 