Best Answer: Anaerobic respiration (anaerobiosis) refers to the oxidation of molecules in the absence of oxygen to produce energy, in opposition to aerobic respiration which does use oxygen. Anaerobic respiration processes require another electron acceptor to replace oxygen. Definition of anaerobic respiration: the breakdown of food substances in the absence of oxygen with a small amount of energy. So basically it can occur any where with oxygen deficiency. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anaerobic_r... SPARTAN · 8 years ago.
Cellular Respiration is divided into two series of biochemical reactions: anaerobic and aerobic reactions. Anaerobic reactions occur in the cytoplasm of the cell and aerobic reactions occur in the mitochondria of the cells. Notice in the picture below that glycolysis is happening in the cytoplasm and everything else is occurring inside the mitochondria, which require oxygen. 
During hard exercise, anaerobic respiration Anaerobic respiration: respiration that occurs in the absence of oxygen takes place as well as aerobic respiration. Anaerobic respiration does not need oxygen for it to happen: Glucose → lactic acid. 
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Anaerobic respiration occurs in muscle cells when they do not have access to enough oxygen to complete aerobic respiration to generate all the ATP they need. In human muscle cells, the end product is lactate/lactic acid. Source(s): 
There are actually two general types of respiration, aerobic and anaerobic. Aerobic respiration occurs in the presence of oxygen, while anaerobic respiration does not use oxygen. Both types of cell respiration begin with the process of glycolysis, after which the two diverge. Glycolysis is the first stage of aerobic (and anaerobic) respiration. It takes place in the cytoplasm of the cell. In glycolysis (“glucose breaking”), ATP is used to split glucose molecules into a three-carbon compound called pyruvate.
Anaerobic respiration in humans takes place when muscle undergoes extreme contraction as in vigorous exercise.Anaerobic respiration takes place in 2 places 1. the muscle cell … and 2. large intestine of undigested food, from the small intestine producing minerals and vitamins. Anaerobic respiration is a type of cellular respiration. It occurs  when oxygen is not available or is available in very low  quantities. It is also a respiration in the absence of oxygen. Oxygen is not used as the final electron acceptor.
Respiration usually occurs in the presence of oxygen, but there are cases where respiration takes place without oxygen (anaerobic respiration). Anaerobic respiration produces less energy than aerobic respiration but is used by some bacteria. The most common examples of respiration occur in two places: in human lungs as part of breathing and in cells through a process called cellular respiration.. Humans breathe to oxygenate their blood, and cells breathe to acquire oxygen to be able to break down glucose for the energy that they need.
Anaerobic respiration is respiration without oxygen; the process uses a respiratory electron transport chain but does not use oxygen as the electron acceptors. Cells that use it. Aerobic respiration occurs in most cells. Aerobic respiration, a process that uses oxygen, and anaerobic respiration, a process that doesn't use oxygen, are two forms of cellular respiration.
Anaerobic respiration is a form of respiration using electron acceptors other than oxygen. Although oxygen is not used as the final electron acceptor, the process still uses a respiratory electron transport chain; it is respiration without oxygen. In order for the electron transport chain to function, an exogenous final electron acceptor must be present to allow electrons to pass through the system.