Both smooth muscle and cardiac muscle can be classified as involuntary muscles. Smooth muscle is comprised of spindle-shaped cells that have no striations and is found in numerous locations throughout the human body. Cardiac muscle is striated rather than smooth, and is found only within the walls of the heart. Smooth muscles are involuntary muscles composed of thick and thin protein filaments that are homologous to the organelles known as myofibrils found in skeletal muscles. The thin filaments are composed of a globular protein called actin, while the thick ones are made up of a motor protein called myosin.
The contrasting quality is striated muscle, which consists of alternating bands of three different types of filaments. This structure, which does not occur in smooth muscle, called a sarcomere. Only striated muscles are capable of voluntary contraction; the contractions of smooth muscle tissue are always involuntary. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Smooth_musc... http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Skeletal_mu..
Smooth muscle. Smooth muscle is also sometimes known as Involuntary muscle due to our inability to control its movements, or Unstriated as it does not have the stripy appearance of Skeletal muscle. Smooth muscle is found in the walls of hollow organs such as the Stomach, Oesophagus, Bronchi and in the walls of blood vessels. It has similarities with skeletal muscles in that it is striated and with smooth muscles in that its contractions are not under conscious control. However this type of muscle is highly specialised.
As with any muscle, the smooth, involuntary muscles of the visceral muscle tissue (which lines the blood vessels, stomach, digestive tract, and other internal organs) are composed of bundles of specialized cells capable of contraction and relaxation to create movement. If one... Click to read more below. Visceral muscle tissue, or smooth muscle, is tissue associated with the internal organs of the body, especially those in the abdominal cavity. There are three types of muscle in the body: skeletal, smooth, and cardiac.
Smooth muscle is called involuntary muscle because you can not control this type of muscle movement. These muscles line internal organs, blood vessels, and organs such found in the digestive and reproductive systems. Skeletal Muscle. Skeletal muscle is called voluntary because you can control this type of muscle. You can voluntarily choose to move them. These muscles attach to bones, move the skeleton, and are found in the arms, legs, neck, or anywhere you can voluntarily move a body part.
1 Smooth muscle, neither striated in structure nor under voluntary control, is found within the walls of organs and structures such as the esophagus, stomach, intestines, bronchi, uterus, urethra, bladder, blood vessels, and the arrector pili in the skin (in which it controls erection of body hair). Muscle tissue varies with function and location in the body. In mammals the three types are: skeletal or striated muscle; smooth or non-striated muscle; and cardiac muscle, which is sometimes known as semi-striated.
Smooth muscle is found within the walls of blood vessels (such smooth muscle specifically being termed vascular smooth muscle) such as in the tunica media layer of large (aorta) and small arteries, arterioles and veins. Smooth muscle is an involuntary non-striated muscle. It is divided into two subgroups; the single-unit (unitary) and multiunit smooth muscle. Within single-unit cells, the whole bundle or sheet contracts as a syncytium (i.e. a multinucleate mass of cytoplasm that is not separated into cells)
Cardiac muscle (heart muscle). This type of muscle is found solely in the walls of the heart. It has similarities with skeletal muscles in that it is striated and with smooth muscles in that its contractions are not under conscious control. However this type of muscle is highly specialised.