Kilauea is a 4008-feet (1222-meter) tall shield volcano located on the Big Island of Hawaii. It is Hawaii’s most active volcano. Kilauea began erupting from the East Rift Zone in 1983, and the lava flow typically moves at a slow pace in the southern direction until it reaches the ocean. The new lava flow, which began on June 27, 2014, is advancing in the northeastern direction across the island.
January 3, 2013 marks the 30th anniversary of the beginning of the current eruption at Kilauea volcano, Hawaii. This is a remarkable eruption, and has been the longest eruption on the east rift zone in recorded history. The eruption has been continuous for so long that we have come to take it for granted. 
The Kilauea lava continues to advance. Officials from the U.S. Geological Survey and Hawaii’s Civil Defense Agency flew over the new lava flow at Kilauea – Hawaii’s most active volcano – on September 15 and 16, 2014 to get a close up view of the eruption. Kilauea began erupting from the East Rift Zone in 1983, and the lava flow typically moves at a slow pace in the southern direction until it reaches the ocean. The new lava flow, which began on June 27, 2014, is advancing in the northeastern direction across the island.
Kilauea is one of the world’s most active volcanoes. It is a shield-type volcano that makes up the southeastern side of the Big Island of Hawaii. View full size image. Kilauea is one of the world’s most active volcanoes. It is a shield-type volcano that makes up the southeastern side of the Big Island of Hawaii. The volcano rises 4,190 feet (1,227 meters) above sea level and is about 14 percent of the land area of the Big Island.
But since 1955, most of Kilauea 's eruption have occurred on its east rift zone. Kilauea has elevation above sea level of 1,277 meters (4,190 feet), but since its base is actually below sea level, it is taller than that. The closest city to Kilauea is the second largest city in Hawaii Hilo with population of 40,000. One earthquake caused a crack on the edge of Kilauea Caldera. Kilauea is the most recent of a series of volcanoes that have created the Hawai'ian Archipelago, as the Pacific Plate has moved and moving over the Hawai'ian hotspot. The estimated age of earliest subaerial eruption is 50,000-100,000 years.
There are five active volcanoes in Hawaii, United States and Kilauea volcano is one of them that is the most active volcano in the world. Kilauea volcano is the home of Fire goddess, Pele. Kilauea has long stories of frequent eruption that continue to shape of Big island of Hawaii. One earthquake caused a crack on the edge of Kilauea Caldera. Kilauea is the most recent of a series of volcanoes that have created the Hawai'ian Archipelago, as the Pacific Plate has moved and moving over the Hawai'ian hotspot. The estimated age of earliest subaerial eruption is 50,000-100,000 years.
Kilauea is considered one of the worlds most frequently active volcanoes. If you just look at the number of Kilauea eruptions recorded since Europeans arrived, there have been 62 eruptions in 245 years, which comes out to 1 eruption every 3.95 years. Hualalai is an active volcano. The resort town of Kailua is on the southwest flank of the volcano. Hualalai last erupted in 1801 and sent lava from a vent on its northeast rift down to the ocean.
The eruption of Kīlauea Volcano that began in 1983 continues at the cinder-and-spatter cone of Pu`u `ō `ō (high point on skyline). Lava erupting from the cone flows through a tube system down Pulama pali about 11 km to the sea (lower left). Since 1952 there have been 34 eruptions, and since January 1983 eruptive activity has been continuous along the east rift zone. All told, Kīlauea ranks among the world's most active volcanoes and may even top the list.
PUBLISHED. Lava flow on the northeast side of Kilauea's Puu Oo crater in Hawaii is moving toward the Kaohe Homesteads subdivision (left). Photograph by Tim Orr, USGS Lava from Hawaii's Kilauea volcano is oozing toward a main road. Lava flow on the northeast side of Kilauea's Puu Oo crater in Hawaii is moving toward the Kaohe Homesteads subdivision (left). Lava flow on the northeast side of Kilauea's Puu Oo crater in Hawaii is moving toward the Kaohe Homesteads subdivision (left).