PA. The TV medium Colin Fry has died of lung cancer aged 53. Fry, who appeared on Most Haunted and presented the popular UKTV show 6ixth Sense, passed away in hospital in the early hours of Monday morning, his management said in a statement on his website. He was diagnosed with terminal cancer in April. Colin Fry, the TV medium and spiritualist, who appeared on Most Haunted, Psychic Private Eyes and 6ixth Sense With Colin Fry, has died of lung cancer on 25 August, aged 53.
The TV medium, Colin Fry, has died at the age of 53. The psychic, who appeared on ‘Most Haunted’, ‘6ixth Sense With Colin Fry’ and ‘Psychic Private Eyes, had been battling lung cancer. Colin's management released a statement confirming his death on his official website. Colin Fry (1962-2015). 
12:29PM BST 25 Aug 2015. Follow. Colin Fry, the television medium, has died at the age of 53. The spiritualist-who appeared on Most Haunted, Psychic Private Eyes and 6ixth Sense With Colin Fry-was diagnosed with terminal lung cancer in April this year. Fellow TV psychic medium Derek Acorah led the tributes to Fry on Twitter:
Colin Fry has passed away (Picture: Ken McKay/ITV/REX Shutterstock). Reverend Colin Fry has died at the age of 53. The TV medium known for his appearances in Most Haunted, Psychic Private Eyes and 6ixth Sense With Colin Fry, was suffering from terminal lung cancer. 
Image caption Colin Fry was diagnosed with cancer earlier this year. TV medium Colin Fry has died at the age of 53, his management has announced. The spiritualist, whose shows included Most Haunted and 6ixth Sense With Colin Fry, was diagnosed with terminal lung cancer in April. He cancelled his 6ixth Sense Anniversary Tour after his diagnosis. 
7:50PM BST 30 Aug 2015. Comments. Colin Fry, who has died aged 53, was a self-proclaimed medium who relayed messages from “the dead” to audiences in Australia, New Zealand, Norway and Japan; on British satellite television he featured in such “paranormal reality” shows as Most Haunted and 6ixth Sense. 
Colin Fry, the TV medium has died after battling terminal lung cancer Colin Fry. TV medium Colin Fry, who appeared in shows including Most Haunted and 6ixth Sense with Colin Fry has died at the age of 53. The spiritualist's manager David Hahn, said: He had a very big heart. Since the diagnosis, he'd been very upbeat. Because of what he does, he had no fear of death..
Colin Fry, a psychic and medium who appeared on Most Haunted, has died at the age of 53. The self-professed paranormal expert appeared on a number of TV shows, including 6ixth Sense With Colin Fry – but was diagnosed with terminal lung cancer earlier this year. 
Colin Fry. TV medium Colin Fry has died aged 53. The star of Most Haunted, 6ixth Sense with Colin Fry and Psychic Private Eyes, has lost his battle with terminal lung cancer. 