Stewardship Brochures. These stewardship brochures are part of the Stewardship Starter Kit and are available to download to help create a culture of giving in your church and a to help create a narrative budget. Continue Reading ». Compiled by the Stewardship Commission, the Stewardship Starter Kit resource is for churches and stewardship committees to use as they evaluate stewardship needs in their own churches.
As we consider our participation in God’s work, a critical component is financial gifts to the ELCA through Mission Support. These offerings provide for mission and ministry within communities and throughout the world. Together, we achieve things on a scale and scope that we could never do otherwise. There is a place for you here. We are the church that shares a living, daring confidence in God's grace. Liberated by our faith, we embrace you as a whole person--questions, complexities and all. Join us as we do God's work in Christ's name for the life of
But we also are accountable for that agency. The Lord has said we will be “accountable for [our] own sins in the day of judgment.” The principles of accountability and stewardship have great significance in our doctrine. In the Church, stewardship is not limited to a temporal trust or responsibility. 
Working Definition of Christian Stewardship. Christian stewardship is grateful and responsible use of God's gifts in the light of God's purpose as revealed in Jesus Christ. Christian stewards, empowered by the Holy Spirit, commit themselves to conscious, purposeful decisions
StewardshipWikepedia.comDefinition Stewardship is personal responsibility for taking care of another person's property or financial affairs or in religious orders taking care of finances. Historically, stewardship was the responsibility given to household servants to bring food and drinks to a castledining hall. The term was then expanded to indicate a household employee's responsibility for managing household or domestic affairs. Stewardship later became the responsibility for taking care of passengers' domestic needs on a ship, train and airplane, or managing the service provided to diners in a restaurant.
Stewardship is living our faith. It is living faithfully in response to the word of God, especially as it is proclaimed in the corporate worship of the triune God. Stewardship ministry invites people into a transformational journey, through the power of the Holy Spirit, in which we are being set free by Christ to love God and all God loves, to trust fully, to serve and give generously, to care for others, and to advance God’s work in the world.
Stewardship is something that I hear a lot of talk about, but not a lot of understanding. I truly believe that understanding what stewardship is and how it applies to our lives will change the way we make decisions each day. Our time, our money, our God given gifts and abilities, our influence, it all comes from God. There are lots of stewardship verses that show us how we should act, but my favorite is the Parable of the Talents since it gives such a great illustration of what a good steward does.
Recently, the Department of Stewardship added two substantial resources to the web: The Fifty-Two Week Parish Giving Campaign, and the Parish Council Guidebook. The department is also responsible for the upcoming Parish Council Symposium in November. Houston, Texas. The Department of Stewardship has worked on the projects and initiatives detailed below since it last reported to the General Assembly during the 50th Archdiocese Convention in Chicago, Illinois in July, 2011.
The definition of Christian stewardship. Lets look at the actual definition of stewardship. Stewardship: 1: the office, duties, and obligations of a steward. I like how it says “managing of something.” To me this implies that we have decisions to make and are responsible for that which we are stewards over. Our time, our money, our God given gifts and abilities, our influence, it all comes from God. There are lots of stewardship verses that show us how we should act, but my favorite is the Parable of the Talents since it gives such a great illustration of what a good steward does.