Prokaryote cell (right) showing the nucleoid in comparison to a eukaryotic cell (left) showing the nucleus. The nucleoid (meaning nucleus-like) is an irregularly-shaped region within the cell of a prokaryote that contains all or most of the genetic material, called genophore. In contrast to the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell, it is not surrounded by a nuclear membrane. The genome of prokaryotic organisms generally is a circular, double-stranded piece of DNA, of which multiple copies may exist at any time. The length of a genome widely varies, but generally is at least a few million base pairs.
Lesson Summary. The nucleoid region is the irregularly-shaped section of a prokaryotic cell where DNA is housed. It lacks the membrane that is found around the nucleus of eukaryotic cells. In addition to DNA, the nucleoid may also contain RNA, proteins, and enzymes that can be used for cellular processes. DNA in the nucleoid is circular and may have multiple copies at any given time. Additionally, DNA in the nucleoid may be supercoiled, meaning it has twists in the circular shape that makes it more compact. As the cells grow, the DNA in the nucleoid may extend into the cytosol, or cellular fluid.
The nucleoid is a region of cytoplasm where the chromosomal DNA is located. It is not a membrane bound nucleus, but simply an area of the cytoplasm where the strands of DNA are found. Most bacteria have a single, circular chromosome that is responsible for replication, although a few species do have two or more. The function of a nucleoid is it contains genetic material and the DNA determines what proteins and enzymes an organism can synthesise.
Definition of NUCLEOID. : the DNA-containing area of a prokaryotic cell (as a bacterium). ADVERTISEMENT. 
nucleoid. a region in the cells of prokaryotes that contains nucleic acids but which is not bounded by a membrane: it is analogous in function to the nucleus of eukaryotic cells. ; from nucloid; from nucl(eus) + -oid. a region in the cells of prokaryotes that contains nucleic acids but which is not bounded by a membrane: it is analogous in function to the nucleus of eukaryotic cells. Origin of nucleoid. nucleoid. ; from nucloid; from nucl(eus) + -oid. a region in the cells of prokaryotes that contains nucleic acids but which is not bounded by a membrane: it is analogous in function to the nucleus of eukaryotic cells.
The nucleoid is the region in the prokaryotic cell that contains the main DNA material. As a side note, some DNA will be in other sections of the cell, but the primary material will be in the nucleoid. The nucleoid has an irregular shape compared to the nucleus of eukaryotic cells, which is circular. DNA in the nucleoid is circular and may have multiple copies at any given time. Additionally, DNA in the nucleoid may be supercoiled, meaning it has twists in the circular shape that makes it more compact. As the cells grow, the DNA in the nucleoid may extend into the cytosol, or cellular fluid.
Nucleoid region. Definition. noun. The area within a prokaryotic cell where the genetic material is to be found. Supplement. Prokaryotes are characterized by their lack of a ‘’true’’ nucleus. In stead of a nucleus, they have a nucleoid where their genetic material is localized. See also: prokaryote
The nucleoid is the region of a prokaryotic cell that houses the primary DNA. This lesson briefly discusses the nucleoid and its characteristics, and how it compares to the nucleus of the eukaryotic cell. DNA in the nucleoid is circular and may have multiple copies at any given time. Additionally, DNA in the nucleoid may be supercoiled, meaning it has twists in the circular shape that makes it more compact. As the cells grow, the DNA in the nucleoid may extend into the cytosol, or cellular fluid.
Nucleoid. Definition. noun, plural: nucleoids. The portion within a prokaryotic cell where the genetic material is to be found. Supplement. In contrast to eukaryotes with a nucleus, prokaryotes have a nucleoid where the genetic material can be found. The nucleoid is different from the nucleus of the eukaryotes in a way that the genetic material is not enclosed in a membrane to separate it from the cytoplasm. Word origin: nucleo- + -oid; thus like a nucleus. Related forms: nucleoidal (adjective). Related term: 1  Lavdovskys nucleoid.