The Fripp Island Audubon Trail’s Maritime Forest is a unique association of plants and animals which grow and live in the woodlands by the sea. The unique plants and trees have adapted to a life in sandy soil, dune-swale topography and strong breezes laden with salt spray and sand. How Did Fripp's Forest Grow? The forest has a tall canopy of slash pine, live oak, and magnolia trees.
1 It includes one mile of undeveloped beach in Horry County. 2  The park's maritime forest has been declared a Heritage Trust Site. 3  The maritime forest includes live oak and southern magnolias. 4  Other unique features include sea oats located on the dunes and an expansive sand dunes system along the beach. 1 Significant Features: The park was the first South Carolina State Park to open in 1936. 2  It includes one mile of undeveloped beach in Horry County. 3
Maritime Hammock Habitats. Maritime hammocks, also known as maritime forests, tropical hammocks or coastal hammocks, are characterized as narrow bands of forest that develop almost exclusively on stabilized backdunes of barrier islands, inland of primary dunes and scrub. Because maritime forests occur on the most stable areas of barrier islands, they are attractive building sites. Clearing lots for houses involves disturbing or destroying most, if not all, the natural vegetative cover to make space for homes, parking areas, drainage fields, and septic systems.
Temperatures and winds are moderated under the tree canopy, which increases moisture levels and allows a dense understory of herbs and shrubs to develop. Spanish Moss and Resurrection Fern are both epiphytes, plants that live on other plants entirely independent of the soil. Typically epiphytes require humid environments where they can absorb moisture directly from the atmosphere, so they are more common in the humid tropics than temperate regions. The spreading canopy of Live Oak, Southern Pine (Pinus sp.), Southern Magnolia (Magnolia grandifolia) and Cabbage Palm (Sabal palmetto) temper the harsh forces of wind and water that assault the dunes and beaches.
Crossing into the back dunes and beyond of the barrier islands, you will enter the realm of the maritime forest. The maritime forests of the southern coast are as unique and enchanting as any other forest in the United States. The spreading canopy of Live Oak, Southern Pine (Pinus sp.), Southern Magnolia (Magnolia grandifolia) and Cabbage Palm (Sabal palmetto) temper the harsh forces of wind and water that assault the dunes and beaches.
Maritime forests are composed of deciduous, coniferous, and broadleaf evergreens. Some of the trees that occupy maritime forests include the southern sugar maple, swamp dogwood, mockernut hickory, white ash, and the white poplar. Some animals that live in these forests are: foxes, deer, rabbits, tree frogs, raccoons, toads, painted buntings, and many others. A maritime forest is an ocean coastal wooded habitat found on higher ground than dune areas within range of salt spray. They can be found along the Atlantic and Pacific Northwest coasts of the United States. Also, there are parts of it in areas of South-East Asia, for example Chek Jawa, a wetland reserve which also features a maritime forest as one of the independent ecosystem
These Atlantic maritime dune woodlands and maritime uplands are an overlooked, misunderstood forest community and under significant threat from both natural and man-made causes. Maritime dune forests are composed of deciduous, coniferous, and broadleaf evergreen trees. These trees include live oak, sabel palm, magnolia, holly, loblolly pine and a rare pignut hickory at Nags Head Woods. Maritime upland forests contain species-poor evergreen and mixed coastal forests. They are often pine-dominated, with an understory of deciduous trees (Fleming et al., 2006). Weather, and especially water availability and chemical make-up, creates conditions that make coastal forests unique.
1 The maritime forest includes live oak and southern magnolias. 2  Other unique features include sea oats located on the dunes and an expansive sand dunes system along the beach. 3  Wildlife: Unique wildlife includes nesting loggerhead sea turtles, bald eagles, least terns and various neo-tropical migrant birds. 1 Significant Features: The park was the first South Carolina State Park to open in 1936. 2  It includes one mile of undeveloped beach in Horry County. 3  The park's maritime forest has been declared a Heritage Trust Site.
In addition to plants, a mature maritime forest is home to a diversity of animal species. Among the many species are raccoon, fox, otter, muskrat, squirrel, snakes (including rattlesnakes and cottonmouths), turtles, frogs and lizards. Of the 3,000 acres of maritime forest in Buxton Woods, about one third is part of Cape Hatteras National Seashore, one third is part of the North Carolina Coastal Reserves Program, and the remainder in private ownership.