For an overview of dog coat color hierarchy continue to the article Introduction into coat color in dogs. ASIP gene (Agouti signal peptide). The expression of the locus A is affected by the loci E and K. The locus A is not expressed in the presence of KB allele and the genotype e/e. These alleles are epistatic to the locus A alleles
There are three versions, or alleles, of the K locus: K B, k br, and k y. If a dog has even a single copy of K B (K B K B, K B k y, K B k br) it will be solid colored in the pigmented areas, and we go directly to the B locus to determine color. It is also responsible for nose color. The gene associated with this locus is known as TYRP1. In breeds where the A locus does not come into play, any animal that has at least one B allele (and is not ee), will be black in pigmented coat. Those dogs, which have two copies of any of several b alleles will be brown.
The a y  gene produces a coat color that can range from a light fawn to darker red to a sable. This variation of color is due to variance in expression of this gene. A dog (k y /k y for K Locus) that has one or two copies of the a y  allele will always express the a y  coat pattern. The most dominant allele is a y , followed by a w , then a t , then a.. While the Agouti gene (A Locus) does determine the base coat color in dogs that are k y /k y for Dominant Black, the color of the dog can still be modified by other genes, such as the B Locus or D Locus.
D Locus-MLPH-Dilution-Blue Coat Color. The most controversial color is the Blue French Bulldog, (also called mouse or mousegray) which appears grayish in color. There are several genetic locations (called Loci) in which determine a dog's color genetically. At each location, is a pair of genes (Alleles). For Blue, the Loci, or location is called D for dilution. The possible alleles (or genes) at the D loci are D and d. 
This form of the gene is represented as the e allele. The e allele is recessive, meaning that a dog must have two copies of the MC1R mutation to express the yellow or red coat color. Recessive red can mask other color variants even masking merle. Other breeds express the ee phenotype as a red color. It is important to note that the extension gene is only one of four important genes in determining the coat color of a canine. The dog's color can vary greatly with different mutated alleles on other genes.
In physics and color science, the Planckian locus or black body locus is the path or locus that the color of an incandescent black body would take in a particular chromaticity space as the blackbody temperature changes. A color space is a three-dimensional space; that is, a color is specified by a set of three numbers (the CIE coordinates X, Y, and Z, for example, or other values such as hue, colorfulness, and luminance) which specify the color and brightness of a particular homogeneous visual stimulus.
The K locus plays a pivotal role in coat color. This locus is a relative newcomer in our understanding of canine color, and includes traits formerly attributed by some to other genes. The dominant allele in the series is K B, which is responsible for self-coloring, or solid colored fur in pigmented areas. It is also responsible for nose color. The gene associated with this locus is known as TYRP1. In breeds where the A locus does not come into play, any animal that has at least one B allele (and is not ee), will be black in pigmented coat. Those dogs, which have two copies of any of several b alleles will be brown.
The major color locus (a locus is a specific area on a chromosome) controls whether birds are blue, brown, or ash-red. Blue is considered wild type, because it was the color of the domestic pigeon’s wild ancestor. The differences between blue, brown, and ash-red color are most visible in the wing pattern. Major Color Is Sex-Linked. The major color locus is a single gene, which we’ll call the color gene. It is located on the Z chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes in birds. The other sex chromosome, called W, does not have a copy of the color gene. Sex chromosomes specify whether a bird is male or female.