The average American family uses more than 300 gallons of water per day at home. Roughly 70 percent of this use occurs indoors. Nationally, outdoor water use accounts for 30 percent of household use yet can be much higher in drier parts of the country and in more water-intensive landscapes.
An often-cited 2011 study of California single-family water consumption estimated that the average California household used more than 360 gallons of water per day. To put that in perspective, the typical office water cooler holds 5 gallons, or about 1.4 percent of the study’s estimated daily average household use.
The study found that about 53 percent of total average household water use — or more than 190 gallons per household per day — was used for landscaping and other outdoor uses (remember, this is only the state average — most cities in the Bay Area use significantly less).
The average American family of four uses 400 gallons of water per day. On average, approximately 70 percent of that water is used indoors, with the bathroom being the largest consumer (a toilet alone can use 27 percent!).
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The average amount is 60 - 70 gallons per day per person for indoor water use only.
Households with lawns or gardens must factor in the amount of water sprinkled on grass, flowers and vegetables. Outdoor watering uses 5 to 10 gallons per minute. So in 10 or 20 minutes, you may use 100 gallons – the amount industry experts estimate is used by an average person each day for all personal water needs!
Answer   the national average water usage per person is around 200 gallons per day.(Shower/tub, Sink,Toilet,washing clothes,washing dishes,cooking,miscellaneous.). + 11 others found this useful.
The size of the circles shows daily residential water use, in gallons per capita. The colors show how far above or below the state average of 77142 gallons those areas used in February 2015in July 2014. Many factors influence residential water use, like climate, income, lot size and types of homes.