Endocrine Glands. A group of specialized cells that release hormones into the blood. For example, the islets in the pancreas, w... Endocrine System. A system of glands and cells that make hormones that are released directly into the blood and travel to tissu... Glands. A group of cells that secrete substances. Endocrine glands secrete hormones. Exocrine glands secrete salt,... 
Hypothalamus. The hypothalamus is a part of the brain located superior and anterior to the brain stem and inferior to the thalamus. It serves many different functions in the nervous system, and is also responsible for the direct control of the endocrine system through the pituitary gland. Hormone specificity explains how each hormone can have specific effects in widespread parts of the body. Many hormones produced by the endocrine system are classified as tropic hormones. A tropic hormone is a hormone that is able to trigger the release of another hormone in another gland.
Pituitary. The pituitary gland is located in your brain, directly under your hypothalamus. This gland is tiny, about the size of a pea, but it plays a large role in your endocrine system. The pituitary gland is composed of two lobes-the anterior (front) and posterior (rear), each of which produces different hormones. The hypothalamus’ “releasing” hormones regulate the secretion of other hormones in your pituitary gland, which in turn affects other endocrine glands in your body. The hypothalamus’ “inhibiting” hormones, as the name implies, turns off the secretion of some of the hormones released from the pituitary.
Glands of the Endocrine System. Each gland of the endocrine system releases specific hormones into your bloodstream. These hormones travel through your blood to other cells and help control or coordinate many body processes. Endocrine glands include: 1  Adrenal glands: Two glands that sit on top of the kidneys that release the hormone cortisol. 2  Hypothalamus: A part of the lower middle brain that tells the pituitary gland when to release hormones. 3  Ovaries: The female reproductive organs that release eggs and produce sex hormones
The Pituitary Gland The hypothalamus is connected to the pituitary gland by a network of bloodvessels called a portal system.This allows the nervous system to exert its control over the hormones producedin the pituitary gland and other endocrine glands. Control of emotional state6. Controlling the overall growth and development of the body Parts of the Endocrine System The endocrine system consists of a number of glands and tissues.It consists of the pituitary gland, thyroid gland, parathyroid gland, adrenal gland, thymusgland, and pineal glands.
Endocrine glands are glands of the endocrine system that secrete their products, hormones, directly into the blood rather than through a duct. The major glands of the endocrine system include the pineal gland, pituitary gland, pancreas, ovaries, testes, thyroid gland, parathyroid gland, hypothalamus and adrenal glands. The hypothalamus and pituitary gland are neuroendocrine organs. Local chemical messengers, not generally considered part of the endocrine system, include autocrines, which act on the cells that secrete them, and paracrines, which act on a different cell type nearby.
View full size image. The endocrine system is the collection of glands that produce hormones that regulate metabolism, growth and development, tissue function, sexual function, reproduction, sleep, and mood, among other things. 
Parts of the Endocrine System. Hormones. Hormones are chemicals that control specific biological functions. They are made in your endocrine glands, secreted in small amounts directly into your bloodstream, and travel to other organs where they induce an action in the organ’s cells. The Major Glands of the Endocrine System. Hypothalamus. The hypothalamus’ “releasing” hormones regulate the secretion of other hormones in your pituitary gland, which in turn affects other endocrine glands in your body. The hypothalamus’ “inhibiting” hormones, as the name implies, turns off the secretion of some of the hormones released from the pituitary.
C. Pituitary gland A & B are exocrine glands. Exocrine glands secrete into ducts that empty onto the surface of a covering and lining epithelium such as the skin surface. Endocrine glands secrete hormones which diffuse directly into the bloodstream after passing through interstitial fluid. Best Answer: (c) the pituitary gland-a gland formed from the fusion of the anterior and posterior pituitary gland which controls a variety of things from uterine contractions to metabolic rate. Source(s): biobuddy · 6 years ago.