The plant in question is a Royal Paulownia tree--Paulownia tomentosa. It is very fast growing tree which gets quite large at maturity. As it ages, it will bloom with purple flowers. Each flower can set a woody seed capsule and when they pop open, the seeds are dispersed and the seedlings can pop up everywhere. There is no such thing as an elephant ear tree. I think you probably have a royal paulownia tree, or empress tree-- Paulownia tomentosa. It grows huge leaves when it is in a juvenile state. As the tree ages the leaves get much smaller and it blooms with purple flowers.
Fragrant pinkish lilac flowers appear in late spring with the foliage. When grown as a perennial, its robust shoots become sturdy stems 2 inches in diameter, with mammoth leaves as much as 2 feet across. Paulownia tomentosa can grow to 12 feet tall in a single season. Noteworthy Characteristics: This native of China is naturalized in the eastern U.S. Grown as a large shade tree in milder parts of the country, it can be grown as a perennial, cutting it to the ground each spring
I have three Paulownia Tomentosa tree's growing in my yard, all of which I planted myself. The first one I planted when I found out my daughter was pregnant with my first grandchild...and now, both tree and grand-daughter are 4 years old. Gabbi is now 43 inches tall, and the tree is over 35 feet tall. A beautifull tree..In my neighbourhood there are growing ten Empress Trees in the public garden. They are all in bloom now..a wonderfull sight. I 've talked with people on a Dutch gardening forum...Paulownia tomentosa is 'nt hardy enough for our climate they say...well I 've told them to come overhere and see.
No. 14 March 2010 Paulownia tomentosa (Princess Tree) Initial Introduction and Expansion in Range Native to eastern Asia, Paulownia tomentosa has been widely planted for horticultural purposes in North America from Montreal to Florida and west to Missouri and Texas. Prevention and Control Paulownia tomentosa was originally introduced as an ornamental and is still planted for that purpose. The wood of this tree is highly prized in Asia leading to the establishment of commercial plantations in the United States.
Paulownia tomentosa is a deciduous Tree growing to 15 m (49ft) by 10 m (32ft) at a fast rate. It is hardy to zone (UK) 5 and is not frost tender. 
The Royal paulownia tree-- Paulownia tomentosa, is definitely the Jack-in-the-beanstalk tree. It has enormous leaves when young and grows quickly. Once it ages, the leaf size is cut more than in half. It will bloom eventually with large clusters of purple flowers. There is no such thing as an elephant ear tree. I think you probably have a royal paulownia tree, or empress tree-- Paulownia tomentosa. It grows huge leaves when it is in a juvenile state. As the tree ages the leaves get much smaller and it blooms with purple flowers.
Royal Paulownia is a very fast growing, about 3 feet/year, tree that is very messy with dead wood, falling twigs and branches and big flowers and leaves, and it is brittle-wooded and subject easily to storm damage. It is not for the refined residential yard. A beautifull tree..In my neighbourhood there are growing ten Empress Trees in the public garden. They are all in bloom now..a wonderfull sight. I 've talked with people on a Dutch gardening forum...Paulownia tomentosa is 'nt hardy enough for our climate they say...well I 've told them to come overhere and see.
Fast-growing hardy tree. We grew our empress tree from seed about five years ago, and it grew into a handsome tree-but it never bloomed. The last few years it produced bud-like structures in fall, but they were always dead come spring. So the main attraction is the large, felted, tropical-looking leaves. Paulownia Tomentosa is the most cold hardy tree, so if you live farther north, this is the best one to plant, and has a pinkish white bloom. Farther south, this tree is the most invasive, so any coastal or mid Atlantic area should not plant this tree. It grows about 30-50 feet.
The Paulownia tree is native to China. Its botanical name is Paulownia tomentosa but it is commonly referred to as the princess or empress tree. They grow in U.S. Department of Agriculture Hardiness zones 5 to 9. One of these trees, a 70-foot specimen growing in Farmersville, California, is listed on the California Registry of Big Trees. These are deciduous trees, meaning they drop their leaves in the fall and grow new leaves in the spring