The ridges are called gyri and the crevices are called sulci. Several of these ridges and crevices even have names, and there are variations in exactly how they look from person to person. We don't start out with wrinkly brains, however; a fetus early in its development has a very smooth little brain. 
Anatomy The cerebrum is a large, folded mass of nervous tissue that makes up the majority of the human brain. Many ridges of cerebral tissue, called gyri (singular: gyrus), extend from the surface of the cerebrum and are bordered by grooves in the cerebrum.... Click to read more below. The cerebrum is the most superior and anterior of the brain’s major regions. It is the seat of reason, planning, memory, and sensory integration. All conscious thought originates in the cerebrum and can influence the subconscious functions of the lower regions of the brain.
Technically, each crevice is called a sulcus (pl. sulci) and each ridge between the crevices is called a gyrus (pl. gyri). Sulci and gyri are simply a way of increasing the surface area of the cerebral cortex (and therefore the number of neurons) without greatly expanding the size of the skull. Instead of being smooth and nearly featureless like a kidney or spleen, the cerebral cortex (the thin layer of gray matter forming the outer surface of the brain) is chock-full of wrinkles and folds.
Anatomy. The cerebrum is a large, folded mass of nervous tissue that makes up the majority of the human brain. Many ridges of cerebral tissue, called gyri (singular: gyrus), extend from the surface of the cerebrum and are bordered by grooves in the cerebrum.... Click to read more below. The cerebrum is the most superior and anterior of the brain’s major regions. It is the seat of reason, planning, memory, and sensory integration. All conscious thought originates in the cerebrum and can influence the subconscious functions of the lower regions of the brain.
Cerebral Cortex The cerebral cortex is the outer surface of the cerebral hemispheres. It is the highest level of the brain and has about 20 billion neurons in the human brain which carry out the highest levels of mental functioning. The cerebral cortex is a layer of grey matter up to about 1/2 cm thick. 
Researchers found that the particular pattern of the ridges and crevices of the brain's convoluted surface, which are called gyri and sulci, depends on two simple geometric parameters: the gray matter's growth rate and its thickness. 
Polymicrogyria is a condition characterized by abnormal development of the brain before birth. The surface of the brain normally has many ridges or folds, called gyri. In people with polymicrogyria, the brain develops too many folds, and the folds are unusually small. The name of this condition literally means too many (poly-) small (micro-) folds (-gyria) in the surface of the brain. 
In the higher animals (especially the higher mammals), the surface of the cerebral cortex becomes folded. This creates grooves on the surface of the brain called sulci (singular = sulcus). The bumps or ridges on the surface of the brain are called gyri (singular = gyrus). The folding of the cortex increases the cortical surface area. The cerebral cortex, made up of four lobes is involved in many complex brain functions including memory, perceptual awareness, thinking, language and consciousness.