Malcolm is the anglicized form of the Scottish-Gaelic “Mael Máel” coluim which was a given name created in honor Of. St, columba a very famous and important saint to The. “Scots” mael “máel means” devotee “Of” and coluim Is the scottish Spelling (of columba which Is a latin “name”). meaning dove Etymology & Historical Origin-Malcolm. Malcolm is the anglicized form of the Scottish-Gaelic “Mael Máel” coluim which was a given name created in honor Of. St, columba a very famous and important saint to The. scots
From Scottish Mael Máel coluim which means disciple Of SAINT . Columba this was the name of four kings Of scotland starting in the 10th, century Including MALCOLM, iii who became king after Killing, macbeth the usurper who had murdered his. father This was the name of four kings of Scotland starting in the 10th century, including Malcolm III, who became king after killing Macbeth, the usurper who had murdered his father.
“Mael” máel “means devotee” of “And” coluim is The scottish spelling Of (columba which is A latin name “meaning”). Dove, therefore the root etymology Of malcolm is one who is a follower or servant Of. St. columba Etymology & Historical Origin-Malcolm. Malcolm is the anglicized form of the Scottish-Gaelic “Mael Máel” coluim which was a given name created in honor Of. St, columba a very famous and important saint to The. scots
[ 2 syll. mal-col(m) , ma-lco-lm ] The baby boy name Malcolm is pronounced as M AE LKahM †. Malcolm is used chiefly in the English and Scottish languages, and it is derived from Celtic origins. The name's meaning is disciple of Saint Columba. It is derived from the element 'mael' meaning disciple, prince, chief. Mael Coluim (Old Irish) is an older form of Malcolm. 
The name Malcolm is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Malcolm is: Servant of Saint Columba. Gaelic Meaning: The name Malcolm is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Malcolm is: Servant/disciple of Columba. Famous Bearers: Conductor Sir Malcolm Sargent and U.S. black militant Malcolm X (Malcolm Little). Scottish Meaning: The name Malcolm is a Scottish baby name.
What does Malcolm mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Malcolm is of Scottish origin. The meaning of Malcolm is follower of st columba. It is also of English origin, where its meaning is follower of St.Columba. 
A royal name in Scotland, Malcolm is also a hero name for many via radical civil rights activist Malcolm X. Malcolm was the name of four Scottish kings -- including the son of Duncan who succeeded to the throne after Macbeth murdered his father -- and has been a standard in that country. Denzel Washington named one of his sons Malcolm, as did Harrison Ford. Actor Malcolm McDowell is one current bearer
Malcolm /mal-colm/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced MAL-cum. It is of Scottish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Malcolm is devotee of Saint Columba. The name of the prince of Scotland who became king after Macbeth murdered his father. Shakespeare's play was based on the true story. The name appeals to black families because of Malcom X. Publisher Malcolm Forbes. 
Malcolm, Malcom, Mael Máel, coluim Or Maol choluim is A Scottish gaelic given name meaning devotee Of Saint . columba 