WPA is a wireless encryption format and the passphrase is in the wireless security section of your router. Here is a link to one of the Sticky topics at the top of this forkum that should be of assistance. If you have a wireless gateway from Comcast and the password hasn't been changed there will be a sticker on the bottom of the device that lists the passphrase you need. It will be a long string of letters and numbers that is case sensitive.
Note: The WEP key or WPA/WPA2 preshared key/passphrase is not the same as the password for the access point. The password lets you access the access point settings. The WEP key or WPA/WPA2 preshared key/passphrase allows printers and computers to join your wireless network. The person who set up your network usually keeps the WEP key or WPA/WPA2 preshared key/passphrase. If your wireless network was set up by your Internet Service Provider (ISP), then you might find the information in the documentation they provided.
Locate WPA2 or WPA Security Key. 1  Open your Web browser and enter http://192.168.1.1 in the Address field. 2  Enter your user name. 3  If you didn't change it when you configured your network, the default user name is admin. 4  Enter your password. Locate WPA2 or WPA Security Key. 1  Open your Web browser and enter http://192.168.1.1 in the Address field. 2  Enter your user name. 3  Enter your password. 4  If you've forgotten your user name or password, you must reset your router to the factory defaults to access the configuration screen. 5  Click the Wireless Settings icon. 6  Click Wireless Status in the ...
The wireless network password might also be labeled as wireless key, WPA key, security password, wireless password, WPA password, WPA2 password, or WEP password. Figure: Example of a label on a router. If you cannot find the password from the label or your password has changed, go to the next step. This document is for HP wireless printers and computers with Windows. To print wirelessly, you need the wireless network password to connect your HP printer to your wireless network. The password might be called the Wi-Fi security key, WEP key, or WPA or WPA2 passphrase. Your wireless password is generally provided by your ISP, and you might have changed the password
On a wireless network, the WPA key is a passphrase that protects the network from outside intruders. If a wireless router is set up with WPA encryption, you need the WPA key for network access and to make changes network settings. Tips & Warnings. 1  If your WPA key shows up as all asterisks (*******), reset the key on your router so that you know what it is. 2  Choose a long password to increase the strength of the encryption. 3  If you do not know your username and password, try the defaults for your router.
Select either WPA or WPA2, to find your computer’s WPA key and insert this key when asked for. If in step 2, you had reset the modem/router, you will not find any WPA or WPA2 key, and you will have to manually assign one. Select any of the WPA-PSK or any other authentication and assign a key to it. WPA stands for Wi-Fi Protected Access. It is a standard security protocol implemented by Wi-Fi alliance to secure wireless computer networks. WPA standard is advancement over WEP (Wired Equivalent Privacy) standard that had several security issues.
WPA key calculation. A wireless network with WPA-PSK encryption requires a passphrase (the pre-shared key) to be entered to get access to the network. Most wireless drivers accept the passphrase as a string of at most 63 characters, and internally convert the passphrase to a 256-bit key
A passphrase is a sequence of words or other text used to control access to a computer system, program or data. A passphrase is similar to a password in usage, but is generally longer for added security. Passphrases are often used to control both access to, and operation of, cryptographic programs and systems. 