METRONIDAZOLE USES. Metronidazole is used to treat or prevent infections caused by bacteria and parasites.. It is an antimicrobial drug, sometimes known as an antibiotic. It is used to kill bacteria and parasites that can infect your body. Metronidazole should be used with caution in: 1  the elderly, liver disease, kidney dialysis, patients with epilepsy (fitting), alcoholism, patients who have a disease of the nervous system (brain or spinal column), blood problems, the rare genetic condition acute porphyria. 2  Metronidazole may darken the urine.
The drug flagyl or metronidazole stays in the system 3 days after discontinuation.Dont drink alcohol till 3 days after you stop it [ Source: http://www.chacha.com/question/how-long-does-flagyl-stay-in-your-body ]. More Answers to  How long does flagyl stay in your body . This means that every 8 hours, the amount in the body is cut in half. We usually give 4-5 half-lives to say that the drug is gone (it will be about 95% gone by then), so 32-40 hours for metronidazole (Flagyl).
I was prescribed Metronidazole (2/day for 7 days) and was told that my boyfriend did not need to be treated. A month went by before my boyfriend and I had sex. So there was ample amount of time for the prescription to work in me, plus no alcohol. My wife has been taking metronidazole (generic flagyl) for 5 days. She has two days left. The first two days she was really sick with nausea, cramps, and headaches. The third day she felt better.
It takes 5.5 half lives for a drug to be out of your system. The elimination half-life of metronidazole is 7-8 hours, therefore it would take 44 hours (5.5 x 8 hours) or approximately 2 days before metronidazole is out of your system. So alcohol should be avoided during and for 48 hours after stopping therapy. Source(s): http://www.medsafe.govt.nz/profs/Datashe... How long does one Flagyl (Metronidazole) pill take to be out of your system? I am taking 3 a day, so does that mean 8 hours?
Flagyl Ugh! I too took flagyl for 6 days of a 10 day prescription. I developed an allergy to the medication and had welts all over my body for 4 days. My taste was gone during the whole time I took it, and although on days it is better today I noticed a serious metallic taste in my mouth. Mostly can taste it when I drink any water. My wife has been taking metronidazole (generic flagyl) for 5 days. She has two days left. The first two days she was really sick with nausea, cramps, and headaches. The third day she felt better.
Q: A: The average elimination half-life is 8 hours. This means that every 8 hours, the amount in the body is cut in half. We usually give 4-5 half-lives to say that the drug is gone (it will be about 95% gone by then), so 32-40 hours for metronidazole (Flagyl).