Mesenteric adenitis means swollen (inflamed) lymph glands in the tummy (abdomen), which cause abdominal pain. It is not usually serious and usually gets better without treatment. Mesenteric adenitis is a fairly common cause of abdominal pain in children aged under 16 years. It is much less common in adults. The name comes from mesentery, which is the part of the abdomen where the glands are located. Adenitis which means inflamed lymph glands
The peritoneum /ˌpɛrɨtəˈniːəm/ is the serous membrane that forms the lining of the abdominal cavity or coelom in amniotes and some invertebrates, such as annelids. It covers most of the intra-abdominal (or coelomic) organs, and is composed of a layer of mesothelium supported by a thin layer of connective tissue. Although they ultimately form one continuous sheet, two types or layers of peritoneum and a potential space between them are referenced: 1  The outer layer, called the parietal peritoneum, is attached to the abdominal wall and the pelvic walls.
The mesentery is a reflection of the peritoneum on the bowel surface; it also supports loops of the small bowel and the colon. The mesentery consists of two fused layers, within which lie mesenteric vessels, lymphatic vessels, nerves, and variable amounts of fat. 
1 The term mesentery is often used to refer to a double layer of visceral peritoneum. 2  There are often blood vessels, nerves, and other structures between these layers. 3  The space between these two layers is technically outside of the peritoneal sac, and thus not in the peritoneal cavity. Although they ultimately form one continuous sheet, two types or layers of peritoneum and a potential space between them are referenced: 1  The outer layer, called the parietal peritoneum, is attached to the abdominal wall and the pelvic walls.
The mesentery is the part of the peritoneum through which most abdominal organs are attached to the abdominal wall and supplied with blood and lymph vessels and nerves. Although they ultimately form one continuous sheet, two types or layers of peritoneum and a potential space between them are referenced: 1  The outer layer, called the parietal peritoneum, is attached to the abdominal wall and the pelvic walls.
Appendicitis is frequently associated with lymphadenopathy, most commonly in the mesentery of the right lower quadrant (Fig 13). Although lymph nodes may be identified in the mesentery of the right lower quadrant in the normal patient population (Fig 14), these are usually small and few in number (1). 
The mesentery is a fold of membranous tissue that arises from the posterior wall of the peritoneal cavity and attaches to the intestinal tract. Within it are the arteries and veins that supply the intestine. The embryologic forerunner of the gastrointestinal tract is suspended from the posterior abdominal wall by the dorsal mesentery. The gastrointestinal tract and associated dorsal mesentery are subdivided into foregut, midgut and hindgut regions based on the respective blood supply.
Mesenteric adenitis, sometimes known as mesenteric lymphadenitis, refers to a condition in which the lymph nodes in the mesentery of the abdomen become inflamed. The mesentery is the tissue that connects the intestines to the internal lining of the abdominal wall. Inflammation of the mesenteric lymph nodes results in abdominal pain, tenderness and fever. The most common cause of mesenteric adenitis is a viral infection within the intestines.
During mobilization of the small intestinal mesentery from the posterior abdominal wall, this fold is incised, allowing access to the interface between the small intestinal mesentery and the retroperitoneum. The embryologic forerunner of the gastrointestinal tract is suspended from the posterior abdominal wall by the dorsal mesentery. The gastrointestinal tract and associated dorsal mesentery are subdivided into foregut, midgut and hindgut regions based on the respective blood supply.
Peritoneum, Mesentery and Omentum. The peritoneum is thin membrane that lines the abdominal and pelvic cavities, and covers most abdominal viscera. It is composed of layer of mesothelium supported by a thin layer of connective tissue. Although ultimately one continuous sheet, two types of peritoneum are referenced: