The jungle curry hails from Central-Northern Thailand, where cooks have no access to coconut trees. For this reason, jungle curry doesn’t contain coconut milk and has a watery consistency. The lack of coconut milk means that there is nothing to mellow the spiciness, making this curry not for the faint hearted. It is traditionally prepared with wild boar, but these days is usually made with pork or chicken. 
Thai curry refers to dishes in Thai cuisine that are made with various types of curry paste; the term can also refer to the pastes themselves. A Thai curry dish is made from curry paste, coconut milk or water, meat, seafood, vegetables or fruit, and herbs. 
Jungle Curry. Jungle curry is a popular Thai curry. Jungle curry is spicy, with no coconut milk. You can make pork or chicken jungle curry with this easy recipe. Fall/winter is the best time to have curries. Nothing warms me up quite like a pot of fiery hot, spice-laden curry. Jungle curry, or kaeng pa, according to Wikipedia, is a curry originated from the northern part of Thailand. As coconuts are not found in the region, it contains no coconut milk. It was originally prepared with wild boars found in the jungle. I made this jungle curry with pork.
This Thai curry is unlike many of the Thai curries that you will be familuir with. this curry contains no coconut milk and has a water consistency. Jungle curry is a country curry that was originally prepared from wild boar but these days it is mainly prepared from pork or chicken. If you can get your hands on some wild boar its worthwhile, as the flavour exceeds that of domestic pork. 
About.com. User Rating. Thai Jungle Curry, a famous dish from Chiang Mai, is made with ingredients found in the jungles of Thailand. You'll notice the lack of certain standard curry spices like turmeric and ground coriander and cumin, but that doesn't mean this curry is lacking in flavor
1 Heat oil in a wok or deep skillet and add curry paste, cooking until fragrant. 2  Add vegetables, coating thoroughly with curry paste, and cooking until almost crisp-tender. 3  Add stock, soy sauce, lime leaves, sugar, and salt. 4  Cook until vegetables are done to your liking. 1 Add vegetables, coating thoroughly with curry paste, and cooking until almost crisp-tender. 2  Add stock, soy sauce, lime leaves, sugar, and salt. 3  Cook until vegetables are done to your liking. 4  Serve garnished with cilantro and sliced chiles, over steamed rice or noodles.
Enjoy the delicious Thai jungle curry. 1 Over low heat, stir-fry jungle curry paste with oil until fragrant. 2 Add chicken and stir-fry for a few minutes before adding fish sauce, sugar and water over medium heat. Bring to the boil, add eggplant, beans and bamboo shoot, until cooked. Steps: 1 Over low heat, stir-fry jungle curry paste with oil until fragrant. 2 Add chicken and stir-fry for a few minutes before adding fish sauce, sugar and water over medium heat.