So there you have it. For the most part, a job as an administrative assistant requires you to structure someone else's (typically an executive's) day by coordinating their appointments, taking messages, and sending emails on their behalf. Office support jobs, such as a receptionist or secretary, will probably have you doing a variety of tasks such as answering a more general phone line, mail delivery, copying, collating, and other tasks.
Secretaries and administrative assistants perform a variety of clerical and administrative duties that are necessary to run an organization efficiently. They use computer software to create spreadsheets, manage databases, and prepare presentations, reports, and documents. Executive secretaries and executive administrative assistants provide high-level administrative support for an office and for top executives of an organization. They often handle more complex responsibilities, such as reviewing incoming documents, conducting research, and preparing reports.
If the tippity tap of keyboards is music to your ears, then you've got a future as an administrative assistant. As a secretary or administrative assistant, you could be working anywhere: corporate settings, government agencies, legal and medical offices, schools, hospitals, you name it. Office support jobs, such as a receptionist or secretary, will probably have you doing a variety of tasks such as answering a more general phone line, mail delivery, copying, collating, and other tasks.
Executive assistants are usually required to hold a degree in either general business or the field in which they work; for example, an executive assistant to a financial officer might hold a bachelor's degree in finance. Like secretaries or personal assistants, they conduct clerical work. However, executive assistants also perform duties that can have an effect on the success or profitability of a business, such as helping with marketing research, training staff and scheduling important meetings.
The average hourly pay for all administrative assistant roles is around $20 per hour, but will vary by experience and location. Skill level is the biggest differentiator in pay. Those in secretarial and office support roles usually make around $13 per hour, whereas executive assistants can make upwards of $30 per hour. Office support jobs, such as a receptionist or secretary, will probably have you doing a variety of tasks such as answering a more general phone line, mail delivery, copying, collating, and other tasks.
Essential Information. Executive assistants provide high-level administrative support to executives in a company or corporation. Like secretaries or personal assistants, they conduct clerical work. However, executive assistants also perform duties that can have an effect on the success or profitability of a business, such as helping with marketing research, training staff and scheduling important meetings.
Job Duties Administrative assistants perform clerical duties in nearly every industry. Some administrative assistants, like those in the legal industry, may be more specialized than others. Most administrative assistant duties revolve around managing and distributing information within an office. Specialized Administrative Assistant Duties Administrative assistants in some fields may be required to have extensive professional knowledge. Accordingly, duties for these assistants may be more specialized.
Commonly referred to as secretaries, administrative assistants perform a wide range of clerical duties that are essential for running an organization smoothly and efficiently. Most administrative assistants are employed full-time, but some may be able to find part-time opportunities depending on the sector. Assistants who are hired to work from a home office and provide support to multiple clients in different industries on a contract basis often have the most flexibility in their scheduling.
Administrative assistant. Administrative Assistant is a broad job category that designates an individual who provides various kinds of administrative support to people and groups in business enterprises.
For U.S. military staff title, see Chief of staff. Administrative Assistant is a broad job category that designates an individual who provides various kinds of administrative support to people and groups in business enterprises. Specialized Administrative Assistant Duties Administrative assistants in some fields may be required to have extensive professional knowledge. Accordingly, duties for these assistants may be more specialized.