Nuts and Seeds. Another option for complementary proteins for legumes such as lentils is nuts or seeds. This complementary pairing is better than that of legumes and grains, as it provides you with more complete protein, but it isn't as common. Consider making a salad with both lentils and some type of nuts. You can use lentils in a Waldorf salad, for example, to make it a meal with complete protein.
Rinse the lentils and store in a jar in a cool place for a few days, rinsing every eight hours. Source: http://www.livestrong.com/article/527529-myth-of-lentils-as-an-incomplete-protein/. Grains Grains, such as rice, oats, wheat, rye and corn, can act as complementary proteins for legumes such as lentils. They contain the cysteine and methionine that lentils lack, and lentils provide the lysine that grains do not contain enough of. Whole grains are a more nutritious option than refined grains. 
Proteins from plants, such as beans, legumes and grains, are incomplete proteins. That means that in order to get everything you need from a vegetarian protein source, you need to eat a combination of them in order to create a complete one. 
Sources of Complete Protein. Animal sources of protein are complete proteins, and some plant foods contain all essential amino acids. Sources of complete animal proteins include milk, yogurt, cheese, meat, poultry, fish, seafood and eggs. Soy protein is a plant-based source of high-quality, complete protein. Incomplete proteins are found in most grains, nuts, seeds, nut butters, green peas and legumes (such as lentils, chick peas, black beans, pinto beans and navy beans). Pairing Incomplete Proteins. You don't have to eat complete proteins to get the essential amino acids your body needs.
1 Examples of legumes include: beans, lentils, peanuts and peas. 2  Examples of nuts/seeds includes: walnuts, almonds, cashews, pumpkin seeds, sesame seeds, pistachios or pecans. 3  Nuts are also a great source of healthy fats. Combine the right types of foods. Combining certain plant-based proteins will give you a complete protein. Aim to consume a variety of whole grains, nuts and legumes – these foods together will provide all the essential amino acids your body needs to make a complete protein. 1  Combine legumes and whole grains for a complete protein
Protein: Pulses are good sources of vegetable protein which must be combined with a complementary protein to become a complete protein containing the nine essential amino acids. Beans and Lentils, when combined with nuts, seeds, rice or grains fulfill the requirement of a complete protein. Protein is required by the body for enzymes, antibodies, transport vehicles, cellular pumps, tendons, ligaments, scars, cores of bone and teeth, filaments of hair, materials of nails and more. 
Lentils are a delicious and nutritious way to satisfy your protein needs. Lentils, a type of legume, are a staple in many parts of the world. They are high in protein, low in fat and are a good source of fiber, which can reduce the risk of heart disease. MayoClinic.com reports that lentils are also a significant source of folate, iron, potassium, and phosphorus. Lentils make an inexpensive, convenient and a healthy alternative to animal sources for protein.
Lentils are not a complete protein because they do not contain all nine essential amino acids. Lentils lack the amino acids methionine and cysteine. Sprouted lentils do contain sufficient amounts of all nine amino acids. You can obtain all amino acids necessary by pairing cooked lentils with a grain such as rice. They are high in protein, low in fat and are a good source of fiber, which can reduce the risk of heart disease. MayoClinic.com reports that lentils are also a significant source of folate, iron, potassium, and phosphorus. Lentils make an inexpensive, convenient and a healthy alternative to animal sources for protein.
Mixing small amounts of complete proteins with lentils will provide you with a complete source of amino acids. Most plant sources of protein are incomplete, with the exception of soybeans and quinoa, but animal sources of protein including dairy products, meat, fish, poultry and eggs are complete proteins. Consider making a salad with both lentils and some type of nuts. You can use lentils in a Waldorf salad, for example, to make it a meal with complete protein.