Levels of alkaline phosphatase -- an enzyme in the blood -- can be elevated by liver disease, or less serious conditions including pregnancy and over-the-counter drug use. See your doctor to discuss any concerns you may have after a blood test. Definitions. Alkaline phosphatase -- often refers to as ALP or Alk Phos on lab sheets -- is an isoenzyme. Isoenzymes are groups of slightly different enzymes that work together to perform the same function.
Alkaline phosphatase is an enzyme found in your bloodstream. ALP helps break down proteins in the body and exists in different forms, depending on where it originates. It is mostly produced in your liver, but some is also made in your bones, intestines, and kidneys. In pregnant women, ALP is made in the placenta. When the results of your ALP test are in, your doctor will discuss them with you and tell you what to do next. According to Cigna, the normal levels for an adult are between 25 and 100 units of ALP per liter of blood. The normal value for a child is up to 350 units per liter (Cigna, 2010).
Alkaline Phosphatase: Alkaline phosphatase is an enzyme that is found in all body tissue, but the most important sites are bone, liver, bile ducts and the gut. A high level of alkaline phosphatase in your blood may indicate bone, liver or bile duct disease. Certain drugs may also cause high levels. 
Best Answer: An alkaline phosphatase (ALP) test measures the amount of the enzyme ALP in the blood. ALP is made mostly in the liver and in bone with some made in the intestines and kidneys. It also is made by the placenta of a pregnant woman. The liver makes more ALP than the other organs or the bones. An ALP test may also be used to check the liver when medicines that can damage the liver are taken. ■Check bone problems (sometimes found on X-rays), such as rickets, osteomalacia, bone tumors, Paget's disease, or too much of the hormone that controls bone growth (parathyroid hormone).
An alkaline phosphatase level test (ALP test) measures the amount of alkaline phosphatase enzyme in your bloodstream. The test requires a simple blood draw and is often a routine part of other blood tests. Abnormal levels of ALP in your blood most often indicate a problem with your liver and/or bones. When the results of your ALP test are in, your doctor will discuss them with you and tell you what to do next. According to Cigna, the normal levels for an adult are between 25 and 100 units of ALP per liter of blood. The normal value for a child is up to 350 units per liter (Cigna, 2010).
The alkaline phosphatase (ALP) test measures how much alkaline phosphatase you have in your blood. Alkaline phosphatase is an enzyme found throughout your body. But it is mainly in your liver, bone, kidney, and digestive tract. 
The alkaline phosphatase test (ALP) is used to help detect liver disease or bone disorders. 1  In conditions affecting the liver, damaged liver cells release increased amounts of ALP into the blood. 2  Any condition that affects bone growth or causes increased activity of bone cells can affect ALP levels in the blood. If ALP results are increased but it is not clear whether this is due to liver or bone disease, tests for ALP isoenzyme may be done to determine the cause. A GGT test and/or a test for 5'-nucleotidase may also be done to differentiate between liver and bone disease.
A test for alkaline phosphatase (ALP) is done to: 1  Check for liver disease or damage to the liver. 2  Check bone problems (sometimes found on X-rays), such as rickets, bone tumors, Paget's disease, or too much of the hormone that controls bone growth (parathyroid hormone). Alkaline Phosphatase. Guide. An alkaline phosphatase (ALP) test measures the amount of the enzyme ALP in the blood. ALP is made mostly in the liver and in bone with some made in the intestines and kidneys. It also is made by the placenta of a pregnant woman. The liver makes more ALP than the other organs or the bones.
Alkaline phosphatase -- commonly abbreviated as ALP -- is a protein found in all cells of the body. The highest concentrations of ALP are located in cells of the liver, bones and bile ducts. ALP in the blood is primarily derived from excess ALP that is released from these cells. 