Qin Shi Huang (or Shi Huangdi) was the First Emperor of a unified China, who ruled from 246 BCE to 210 BCE. In his 35-year reign, he managed to create magnificent and enormous construction projects. He also caused both incredible cultural and intellectual growth, and much destruction within China. The Death of Qin Shi Huang: A large meteor fell in Dongjun in 211 BCE-an ominous sign for the Emperor. To make matters worse, someone etched the words The First Emperor will die and his land will be divided onto the stone.
Qin Shi Huang (260–210 BC), personal name Ying Zheng, was the King of the state of Qin (r. 246–221 BC) who conquered all other Warring States and united China in 221 BC. Rather than maintain the title of king borne by the Shang and Zhou rulers, he ruled as the First Emperor of the Qin dynasty from 220 to 210 BC. The title emperor (huangdi) would continue to be borne by Chinese rulers for the next two millennia.
Qin Shi Huangdi, [his real name], became the emperor from 246 BC to 221 BC. 
Just three years after Qin Shi Huang's death in 210 B.C., the Qin dynasty was overthrown. The imperial system that he'd set in motion, however, would remain at work in China until 1912, when the last Emperor abdicated and China became a Republic. 
Achievements of Emperor Qin Shi Huang By 221 B.C., King Zheng annexed the six other independent kingdoms of the warring States Period (403-221 B.C.) and founded the first unified feudal empire in Chinese history, proclaiming himself Shi Huang Di, or the first emperor of the Qin Dynasty. 
With the defeat of the other six warring states, Qin Shi Huang had unified northern China. His army would continue to expand the Qin Empire's southern boundaries throughout his lifetime, driving as far south as what is now Vietnam. The king of Qin became the Emperor of Qin China. As emperor, Qin Shi Huang reorganized the bureaucracy, abolishing the existing nobility and replacing them with his appointed officials. He also built a network of roads, with the capital of Xianyang at the hub. The Death of Qin Shi Huang: A large meteor fell in Dongjun in 211 BCE-an ominous sign for the Emperor. To make matters worse, someone etched the words The First Emperor will die and his land will be divided onto the stone.
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. Qin Shi Huang 259 BC -- 210 BC. was the king of the Chinese State of Qin from 246 BC to 221 BC, during the Warring States Period. He became the first emperor of a unified China in 221 BC He ruled until his death in 210 BC at the age of 49. Calling himself the First Emperor after China's unification, Qin Qín Shǐ huang huáng is a pivotal Figure in, chinese history ushering in nearly two millennia of. imperial rule
Unification of China Makes Construction Project Possible. In 221 B.C., when Qin Shi Huang became emperor, China had just emerged from over 200 years of provincial conflict known as the Warring States Period. Huang is credited with unifying these provinces under one centralized government and establishing the capital at Xianyang. In 1974, peasants digging a well near the city of Xian, in Shaanxi province, China, stumbled upon a cache of life-size, terracotta figures of soldiers at what was later determined to be the burial complex of the first emperor of the Qin Dynasty, Qin Shi Huang (259 B.C.-210 B.C.).
Reign. Originally called Ying Zheng, Emperor Ch'in was born in 260 B.C. and died in 210. His reign as king of the more than 500-year old state of Qin had started when he was only 13. Having unified the warring states, Chin became emperor of a unified China in 221 B.C. His rule as emperor had lasted for 12 years when he died at the age of 49. Emperor Ch'in shih huang-ti was the first Ch'in (Qin) Dynasty emperor for which reason people call him simply the First Emperor.. Appraisals of this 3rd century B.C. emperor vary. Some consider his government unprincipled, and him, a violent, superstitious ruler who ordered a bibliocaust.
Emperor Qin Shi Huang. 1  Occupation: Emperor of China. 2  Reign: 221 BC to 210 BC. 3  Born: 259 BC. 4  Died: 210 BC. 5  Best known for: First Emperor of China, established the Qin Dynasty. 6  Government-Emperor Qin did not want the conquered states to think of themselves as independent nations. 1 Best known for: First Emperor of China, established the Qin Dynasty. 2  Government-Emperor Qin did not want the conquered states to think of themselves as independent nations. 3  He divided the country into administrative units. 4  There were 36 commanderies which were further divided into districts and counties.