[ 2 syll. u-la, ul-a ] The baby girl name Ula is pronounced UW-Laa- †. Variation transcriptions of Ula include Eula, Oola, Ulaa, Ulae, Ulah, Ulai, Uli, Ulia, and Yula (English and Gaelic). In addition, Ula is a Spanish familiar form of Eulalia (English, Italian, and Spanish). Ula is uncommon as a baby name for girls. At the height of its usage in 1901, 0.006% of baby girls were given the name Ula. Its ranking then was #854.
Ula /ula/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced OO-luh. It is of Scandinavian, Celtic and Hawaiian origin, and the meaning of Ula is wealthy; gem of the sea; sacred red. A Spanish short form of Eulalie. Kreatif forms: Ulari, Ulaul, Ulula. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Ula for girls. Ula reached its top rank of #958 in the U.S. then, but is not listed at the moment. (2014 Birth Statistics). Displayed below is a comparison of the usage of the girl name Ula and corresponding names.
Ula has its origins in the Irish language. It is used largely in the English, Gaelic, Hawaiian, and Polish languages. The meaning of the name is 'sea jewel'. Ula's origin is Basque. Here, it means 'the Virgin Mary'. Ula's language of origin is Hawaiian. Ula is uncommon as a baby name for girls. At the height of its usage in 1901, 0.006% of baby girls were given the name Ula. Its ranking then was #854.
Ula is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 3 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced U-la. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 10017 in baby name popularity for girls with 11 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Ula Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Ula has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Ula to other names.
Ula is a somewhat prominent first name for females (#3341 out of 4276, Top 78%) but an unusual last name for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Ula for girls. Ula reached its top rank of #958 in the U.S. then, but is not listed at the moment. (2014 Birth Statistics). Displayed below is a comparison of the usage of the girl name Ula and corresponding names.
Meaning of Ula. Celtic name. In Celtic, the name Ula means-Sea jewel.. Other origins for the name Ula include-Celtic, Irish, Spanish.The name Ula is most often used as a girl name or female name. Celtic Name Meaning-Sea jewel. Origin-Celtic. Alternate Origins-Irish Spanish.
[ 2 syll. ul-la, ull-a ] The baby girl name Ulla is pronounced as uw-Laa- †. Ulla is largely used in English, German, Scandinavian, and Latin. Its origin is Germanic and Latin. Ulla is a contracted form of the name Ulrike (English, German, and Scandinavian). Ulla is also a German and Latin contracted form of the name Ursula (English, German, Italian, and Scandinavian). Ula (spelling variant in Finnish, German, and Scandinavian) is a form of the name. Ulla is uncommon as a baby girl name. It is not listed within the top 1000. 
The name Ula is a Scandinavian baby name. In Scandinavian the meaning of the name Ula is: Wealthy. American Meaning: The name Ula is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Ula is: Wealthy. Celtic Meaning: The name Ula is a Celtic baby name. In Celtic the meaning of the name Ula is: Sea jewel. Spanish Meaning: The name Ula is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Ula is: Abbreviation of Eulalie. 