Where to Get a Used Car Inspection. Take the car to a trusted repair shop, if you have one. Otherwise, most dealer service departments and independent repair shops will be happy to do the inspection. Just look online or through your phone book to find local shops that perform inspections. A glowing report should facilitate the sale of the car, and make both the buyer and seller feel more at ease with the transaction. A report that uncovers some minor flaws can be used as a bargaining tool to lower the price. Or, you can insist that the seller take care of the issues before you pay the asking price.
If the seller hesitates, you might want to consider the words of BuffaloScoop.com's automotive editor and former America's Car Show host Tom Torbjornsen: You have to wonder what they're hiding.. The Vital Pre-Purchase Inspection. Experts agree that used cars must be inspected before the final negotiation for purchase. A stem-to-stern inspection, if it's been done right, can tell you if you're about to buy a great used car or step into a nasty set of problems, Torbjornsen said. Torbjornsen recommended having the inspection performed by a mechanic with whom you've built a relationship.
Factory-certified means the vehicle has been inspected, needed repairs have been made and the car has been backed by a factory warranty. Other: A dealer-certified used car probably didn't get the multipoint inspection or the series of repairs that the factory-certified car did. Also, these cars won't have a warranty backed by the factory, so if you want a warranty you'll have to buy an extended one through the dealer or an insurance company. If you decide that a certified pre-owned car is right for you, there are even more things to consider. There are different types of certified cars: ones that are certified by the factory and ones that are certified by the dealer.
If you're serious about buying the vehicle, there's no reason why you shouldn't spend $100 to get it inspected by a professional mechanic. It will help you avoid a very costly mistake. One thing is for sure: You can't trust a private party or dealer to tell you the truth about a vehicle's history and its problems. Even if the car is still under warranty, it doesn't mean you shouldn't get it inspected. Major problems will likely need costly repairs after the warranty expires. There are two options when you need a vehicle inspected. You can take the car to a mechanic that specializes in that brand, or you can get a mobile inspection service to come out and inspect the vehicle wherever you choose.
1 Examine the car using an inspection checklist. 2  You can find checklists in magazines, books, and on websites that deal with used cars. 3  Test drive the car under varied road conditions — on hills, highways, and in stop-and-go traffic. 4  Ask for the car's maintenance record from the owner, dealer, or repair shop. Warranties. When you buy a used car from a dealer, get the original or a copy of the final Buyers Guide that was posted in the vehicle. The Guide must reflect any negotiated changes in warranty coverage. It also becomes part of your sales contract and overrides any contrary provisions.
I've never bought a non-warranty used car from a dealer before. When, in the buying process, should I take the car to my mechanic for an inspection? Should I get it inspected after I like the car after the test drive? Or should I wait until after the dealer and I negotiate a sale price? If I take the car in for an inspection before negotiating a price, I risk shelling out $100 for an inspection on a car that I might not want to buy because the price is too high. The dealer is not going to pay your mechanic's retail price, for instance, to repair the clutch or fix the power window. The inspection is for your protection---it's not all that great a negotiating tool, if that's what you are planning.
Whether you buy a used car from a dealer or an individual: 1  Examine the car using an inspection checklist. 2  You can find checklists in magazines, books, and on websites that deal with used cars. 3  Test drive the car under varied road conditions — on hills, highways, and in stop-and-go traffic. Warranties. When you buy a used car from a dealer, get the original or a copy of the final Buyers Guide that was posted in the vehicle. The Guide must reflect any negotiated changes in warranty coverage. It also becomes part of your sales contract and overrides any contrary provisions.
A physical assessment of the vehicle is absolutely paramount before the purchase. Take your time and be thorough with your examination. While a private party may let you take the car to your own mechanic, a dealer may not be so obliging, insisting that his own mechanic perform the inspection. 
Reputation: 1235. If you purchased the vehicle from a private seller [not from a dealer], I haven't found any information that states it is illegal to sell the vehicle without a current inspection. You have 14 days to get your car inspected. 