Colon cleansing is an alternative medicine practice used to eliminate the build up of wastes and toxins in the colon. While there are many purported benefits to cleansing, there are several side effects as well. Some of the most common side effects include nausea, vomiting, bloating, cramping, constipation and fatigue. These side effects are considered normal to the process of cleansing and will resolve with time. However, there are some side effects to cleansing that are more severe in nature and potentially dangerous
See all my reviews. Comments about Health Plus Super Colon Cleanse, Capsules, 240 ea : I was backed up in a sludge type of way and wanted something to get things moving along again and clean me out so I tried this. I took the first dose in the morning and then again about 1 in the afternoon. Comments about Health Plus Super Colon Cleanse, Capsules, 240 ea : For some reason I stopped being regular and this went on for almost two months. If I went to the bathroom once a week I felt happy.
Suggested use for better results: Super Colon Cleanse may be used alternately with Colon Cleanse. Use Super Colon Cleanse for a thorough cleansing periodically, followed by the Colon Cleanse for maintenance in between. Directions. Suggested Use : Adults: take 4 capsules 2 times daily with at least 10-12 ounces of water, juice or your favorite beverage. Taking this product without enough liquid may cause choking.
Some of the common mild side effects associated with colon cleansing include diarrhea, dehydration, fatigue and in some cases, allergic reactions to the ingredients contained in cleanse products. Cleanse products that contain the herb, Senna, may cause diarrhea. Diarrhea upsets your body's electrolyte balance. While there are many purported benefits to cleansing, there are several side effects as well. Some of the most common side effects include nausea, vomiting, bloating, cramping, constipation and fatigue. These side effects are considered normal to the process of cleansing and will resolve with time.
Super Colon Cleanse from Health Plus promotes a thorough cleanse with a psyllium and herbal powder blend. It supports the body's internal detoxification and elimination process. Toxins from the air, food, water and stress can build up in the body. 
In the case of the Master Cleanse the potential side-effects that you may experience include:  Tiredness.  Aches and pains.  Nausea.  Hunger pangs. These effects may appear throughout the period of the detox and are likely to be due to the process of the toxins and waste leaving your body. It is recommended that taking herbal teas during the detox period as this will allow you to have a bowel movement two or three times a day. Riding Out Any Master Cleanse Side Effects. One of the most popular detoxes or diets of the moment is the Master Cleanse. It is claimed that this program will make you look and feel healthier and younger within a period of 10 days.
Health Plus Super Colon Cleanse. Super Colon Cleanse is one of Health Plus, Inc.'s colon cleanse treatments. The makers of this product recognize that the key to colon health is internal detoxification and a careful balance of flora in the intestines. 
Total Weight: 0.22 lbs (0.10 kg) Package Format: 120 Caps Jumpstarting a new diet or fitness routine with a cleanse helps prepare the body while restoring overall health. For your next cleanse, try Health Plus Inc.'s Super Colon Cleanse. Cleansing the internal organs rids the body of harmful toxins that can lead to illness and cause bloating and/or a sluggish overall feeling. By taking Health Plus Inc.'s Super Colon Cleanse, you can help eliminate these toxins for better overall health. Super Colon Cleanse is part of Health Plus Inc.'s line of colon cleansing products. Try it today at eVitamins. Warnings: Accidental overdose of iron containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6.
Colon Cleansing Side Effects Although colon cleansing procedures are prescribed as preparation for certain medical procedures, most health experts do not recommend such procedures for the purpose of detoxification. This is due to the risk of simple to severe side effects. 