Growth hormone plays a role in healthy muscle, how our bodies collect fat (especially around the stomach area), the ratio of high density to low density lipoproteins in our cholesterol levels and bone density. In addition, growth hormone is needed for normal brain function. A person who has too little adult growth hormone will have symptoms that include: 1  A higher level of body fat, especially around the waist. 2  Anxiety and depression. 3  Decreased sexual function and interest. 4  Fatigue. 5  Feelings of being isolated from other people. 6  Greater sensitivity to heat and cold.
1 Growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH) is a hypothalamic peptide that stimulates both the synthesis and secretion of growth hormone. 2  Somatostatin (SS) is a peptide produced by several tissues in the body, including the hypothalamus. Growth is a very complex process, and requires the coordinated action of several hormones. The major role of growth hormone in stimulating body growth is to stimulate the liver and other tissues to secrete IGF-I. IGF-I stimulates proliferation of chondrocytes (cartilage cells), resulting in bone growth.
Effects of growth hormone on lipid metabolism in humans. Moeller Møller, N Gjedsted, J Gormsen, L Fuglsang, J Djurhuus. C the most immediate effect of growth (HORMONE) gh administration in humans is a significant increase in free fatty acids after-1 2, h reflecting stimulation of lipolysis and. ketogenesis When the capacity of GH to increase lipolysis is blocked, the protein-retaining and insulin-antagonistic effects of GH on glucose metabolism are either abolished or weakened dramatically, compatible with a key role for lipolysis in orchestrating the metabolic actions of GH. [PubMed-indexed for MEDLINE].
It is likely that all cells in the body are targets for thyroid hormones. While not strictly necessary for life, thyroid hormones have profound effects on many big time physiologic processes, such as development, growth and metabolism, and deficiency in thyroid hormones is not compatible with normal health. 
IGF-I also appears to be the key player in muscle growth. It stimulates both the differentiation and proliferation of myoblasts. It also stimulates amino acid uptake and protein synthesis in muscle and other tissues. Growth hormone has important effects on protein, lipid and carbohydrate metabolism. In some cases, a direct effect of growth hormone has been clearly demonstrated, in others, IGF-I is thought to be the critical mediator, and some cases it appears that both direct and indirect effects are at play. Growth is a very complex process, and requires the coordinated action of several hormones. The major role of growth hormone in stimulating body growth is to stimulate the liver and other tissues to secrete IGF-I. IGF-I stimulates proliferation of chondrocytes (cartilage cells), resulting in bone growth.
The most immediate effect of growth hormone (GH) administration in humans is a significant increase in free fatty acids after 1-2 h, reflecting stimulation of lipolysis and ketogenesis. This stimulation represents an important physiological adaptation to stress and fasting. When the capacity of GH to increase lipolysis is blocked, the protein-retaining and insulin-antagonistic effects of GH on glucose metabolism are either abolished or weakened dramatically, compatible with a key role for lipolysis in orchestrating the metabolic actions of GH. [PubMed-indexed for MEDLINE].
Growth hormone (GH or HGH), also known as somatotropin or somatropin, is a peptide hormone that stimulates growth, cell reproduction and regeneration in humans and other animals. It is a type of mitogen which is specific only to certain kinds of cells. Main articles: Growth hormone 1 and Growth hormone 2. Genes for human growth hormone, known as growth hormone 1 (somatotropin) and growth hormone 2, are localized in the q22-24 region of chromosome 17 and are closely related to human chorionic somatomammotropin (also known as placental lactogen) genes.
Growth hormone (GH) is a hormone that is essential for normal growth and development in children. It promotes proper linear bone growth from birth through puberty. Sometimes, the cause of the deficiency is not known. In adults, growth hormone plays a role in regulating bone density, muscle mass, and glucose and lipid metabolism. It can also affect heart and kidney function.
Some hormones are completely active when released into the bloodstream (as is the case for insulin and growth hormones), while others must be activated in specific cells through a series of activation steps that are commonly highly regulated. Hormones affect distant cells by binding to specific receptor proteins in the target cell resulting in a change in cell function. When a hormone binds to the receptor, it results in the activation of a signal transduction pathway.
1 Indirect effects are mediated primarily by a insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) , a hormone that is secreted from the liver and other tissues in response to growth hormone. 2  A majority of the growth promoting effects of growth hormone is actually due to IGF-I acting on its target cells. Growth is a very complex process, and requires the coordinated action of several hormones. The major role of growth hormone in stimulating body growth is to stimulate the liver and other tissues to secrete IGF-I. IGF-I stimulates proliferation of chondrocytes (cartilage cells), resulting in bone growth.