The presence of WBC in the feces (fecal WBC) is indicating bowel infection. However, there is also a range for the WBC in the feces (which varies from one lab to another). You can send the stool test report to me, so, I can analyze it further and refer whether the presence of WBC in your feces is normal or not. Hi, Fecal lactoferrin is a specific marker to differentiate inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) from irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). Often, these two pathologies have the same clinical symptoms. Lactoferrin is a crucial component of anti-inflammatory cells (called polymorphonuclear neutrophils).
2. Get help from a doctor now ›. Lactoferrin: Lactoferrin is a protein that is made by white blood cells. When the lactoferrin level in stool is elevated, that is an indicator of ^’ed white blood cells due to intestinal infection or inflammation. This might occur with bacterial infections of the GI tract, crohn’s disease or ulcerative colitis. 
Lactoferrin is related to another stool test, calprotectin. Both are substances that are released by WBCs in the stool and are associated with intestinal inflammation. The clinical use of these tests is still relatively new. An endoscopy (colonoscopy or sigmoidoscopy) may be indicated as a follow-up test. Increases in lactoferrin are seen with IBD but also with other inflammatory conditions, with intestinal bacterial infections, some parasitic infections, and with colon cancer.
Fecal lactoferrin is a sensitive and specific marker in identifying intestinal inflammation. Kane SV(1), Sandborn WJ, Rufo PA, Zholudev A, Boone J, Lyerly D, Camilleri M, Hanauer SB. Author information: (1)University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA. The mean +/- SE fecal lactoferrin concentration (microg/g fecal weight) was 440 +/- 128 for CD patients, 1125 +/- 498 for UC patients, 1.27 +/- 0.29 for IBS patients, and 1.45 +/- 0.4 for healthy controls. Fecal lactoferrin was 90% specific for identifying inflammation in patients with active IBD.
A lactoferrin test may be ordered when a person has symptoms that suggest that intestinal inflammation may be present and when a doctor wants to distinguish between IBD and a non-inflammatory bowel condition. An endoscopy (colonoscopy or sigmoidoscopy) may be indicated as a follow-up test. Increases in lactoferrin are seen with IBD but also with other inflammatory conditions, with intestinal bacterial infections, some parasitic infections, and with colon cancer.
The Lactoferrin Screen, Stool is more specific and beneficial than the orderable Fecal Leukocyte (WBC) Test as it detects an increased presence of lactoferrin. The screen does not rely upon the staining of intact leukocytes, which in some cases may not be present due to collection, age of specimen, and cell lysis. ¾ The Lactoferrin Quantitative, Stool assay offers a safe non‐invasive, accurate method of differentiating inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) from irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), once infectious causes of inflammation and colorectal cancer are ruled out.
A doctor may order a lactoferrin test to help investigate the cause of a person's persistent watery or bloody diarrhea. The test may be ordered along with other stool tests, such as a stool culture to detect a bacterial infection, a stool white blood cell test, and/or a fecal occult blood test. An endoscopy (colonoscopy or sigmoidoscopy) may be indicated as a follow-up test. Increases in lactoferrin are seen with IBD but also with other inflammatory conditions, with intestinal bacterial infections, some parasitic infections, and with colon cancer.
Lactoferrin, stool. Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) are two chronic conditions associated with diarrhea and abdominal pain, and these symptoms are among the most common reasons that patients seek medical advice. 
Lactoferrin (LF), also known as lactotransferrin (LTF), is a multifunctional protein of the transferrin family. Lactoferrin is a globular glycoprotein with a molecular mass of about 80 kDa that is widely represented in various secretory fluids, such as milk, saliva, tears, and nasal secretions. Lactoferrin is also present in secondary granules of PMN and is secreted by some acinar cells.