The steelhead (sometimes called steelhead trout) is an anadromous (sea-run) form of the coastal rainbow trout (O. m. irideus) or Columbia River redband trout (O. m. gairdneri) that usually returns to fresh water to spawn after living two to three years in the ocean. 
In my opinion, it’s sort of like the “best of” salmon. Furthermore, steelhead trout is a very sustainable alternative to salmon. I wanted a simple, healthy preparation that really allowed the flavors of the fish to shine, and this certainly was that. Quinoa is a very delicious seed with great nutrition content. Tags: how to cook quinoa, quinoa, steelhead trout, thyme quiona, Thyme Seared Steelhead Trout with Thyme-Mushroom Quinoa, thyme trout, what does steelhead trout taste like.
Thanks for the comments. It was quite good. I have learned that steelhead trout is in the same family as salmon. It is the same species as rainbow trout but it is an ocean fish rather than a land-locked fresh water fish. It has a taste similar to salmon but it is more mild. Frankly I liked it a lot. 
Also known as steelhead-salmon, salmon-trout or hardhead. The steelhead trout is a rainbow trout that spends part of its life in the Pacific Ocean. It has the same general appearance as other rainbow trout. The two kinds have different numbers of scales, and migratory patterns. Today it is widely accepted that the steelhead is a rainbow trout with a different life cycle. In general, steelhead trout have small heads with well-developed teeth on the roof of their mouth, and no teeth at the base of their tongue. They have an adipose fin and black spots on their back, sides and fins.
Best Answer: Rainbow trout are among the most delicious of fish. They have no scales and very compact bone skeletons. Which means they are easy to clean and ready to eat in minutes. The flavor is best described as sweet to nutty and once you have it you will look forward to it again! 
Rainbow trout are the landlocked form, so to speak, as they do not have a tendency to migrate from one body of water to another. The Pennsylvania Fish and Boat Commission plants steelhead rather than rainbow trout in the Lake Erie drainage. In the salmons, the mouth has some gray or black. Steelhead and other deepwater, big-lake rainbows are more silvery than stream fish, with less of a side stripe. Their genetic background traces back to ocean run (migratory) rainbow trout brought here from the Pacific Northwest.
Steelhead Trout, is a variety of Rainbow Trout. It is so much like salmon in color, taste, and texture that it would be hard to differentiate between the two. Steelhead Trout is is a type of rainbow trout which is predominantly found along the Pacific Coast of the United States. Throughout the world Steelhead Trout are found within … the Western Pacific south and throughout the Kamchatka peninsula.
I tried steelhead tonight. It tastes just like salmon and is cheaper than salmon. Steelhead is in the trout family even though it looks like salmon. Steelhead is also known as sea rainbow trout. Like salmon, steelhead travel back to fresh water to spawn (they live in the ocean, but breed in fresh water). And they are a very popular sport fish because they do a lot of jumping around in the water
A Salmon is not a trout. They are related, however a Steelhead is actually the same fish as a Rainbow Trout. Genetically identical. Salmon die after they spawn while Steelhead … return to the sea/lake and can spawn several times before death. Steelhead Trout is is a type of rainbow trout which is predominantly found along the Pacific Coast of the United States. Throughout the world Steelhead Trout are found within … the Western Pacific south and throughout the Kamchatka peninsula.
• Pink is the new Green. Rainbow Trout varieties, which includes Steelhead Trout, are on the Best Choices list of the Monterrey Bay Aquarium's Seafood Watch List which monitors world fish populations for over-fishing. Steelhead Trout is is a type of rainbow trout which is predominantly found along the Pacific Coast of the United States. Throughout the world Steelhead Trout are found within … the Western Pacific south and throughout the Kamchatka peninsula.