If you are looking for wooden bowls or plates to use every day you are in the right place. I have been making them and using them for 20 years on a simple foot powered lathe. I also make tools to help others learn to carve. I studied medieval bowls and viking bowls, made bowls for the Tower of London and for Ridley Scott but most important I test drive them every day in my own kitchen.
Woodcarving in the Viking Age was a rich and well-developed decorative art. The earliest Viking Age find containing a rich trove of carved wood items, the Oseberg Ship Burial, did not suddently appear out of nothing as a full-blown art-instead, it is the result of a long tradition over time.
Traditionally, this type of bowl was used for bread making. The ingredients were mixed and kneaded into dough in the bowl, then covered with a cloth and left to rise. Wooden bowls were preferred as the wood held the heat generated by the fermentation of the yeast.
The woodworker's art spans a variety of related disciplines. In the Viking Age, wood was used for homes, for ships, for barns and other buildings, as well as for farming implements and household objects, and many other uses.
1 In comparing the archaeological dating of wooden items to the style of ornamentation, ornamented wooden items follow the broad trends present in Viking Age art, utilizing motifs popular in other forms of surface ornamentation such as metalwork and stone carving.
Creating a Monogram Using Viking Runes. The Vikings carved the straight-lined letters of their alphabet in stone, wood, bone and metal. These lines were first constructed on a stave-a series of lines that served as a guide for rune writing. The graphic to the right is an example of what a stave looks like.
Overview. Trees were a key resource for the Vikings. They used wood to create tableware--such as cups, bowls, plates and spoons--tools, buckets, game boards and pieces, toys and furniture. Nearly everyone in a Viking community had some degree of craftsmanship in the area of woodworking.