The beauty of Tunisia is a fine mix of European and Middle Eastern culture with its rich history and scenic views. It is a country in Northern Africa south of Italy and Malta. It’s bordered by Libya to the Southeast and the country of Algeria to the west. Having Tunis as its capital, the beautiful country of Tunisia has a Mediterranean coastline that makes it a popular tourist destination. The climate here varies with the region. It is temperate in the north with mild winters that are sometimes rainy.
Carthage is currently a suburb of Tunis, but it was once one of the most important and prosperous cities of the ancient world. Founded by Phoenician settlers about 3,000 years ago, Carthage was famous for its rivalry with Rome, and is a center of polytheistic religious practices. Tunisia is bordered by Algeria in the west and Libya in the east. Parts of Tunisia and Italy are less than 200 miles from one another across the Mediterranean Sea, and the nations have had countless friendly and hostile interactions since ancient times.
The French conquest of Tunisia occurred in 1881. Tunisia gained independence with the Habib Bourguiba and declared the Tunisian Republic in 1957. In 2011, the Tunisian Revolution resulted in the overthrow of President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, followed by parliamentary elections. In 1869, Tunisia declared itself bankrupt and an international financial commission took control over its economy. In 1881, using the pretext of a Tunisian incursion into Algeria, the French invaded with an army of about 36,000 and forced the Bey to agree to the terms of the 1881 Treaty of Bardo (Al Qasr as Sa'id).
Some of the most famous tourist spots in Tunisia are Carthage, which is known in world history as the metropolis razed by the Romans; Douz, a town located at Sahara’s edge where tourists can enjoy a camel ride and El Jan, one of the world’s most preserved Roman amphitheaters. Having Tunis as its capital, the beautiful country of Tunisia has a Mediterranean coastline that makes it a popular tourist destination. The climate here varies with the region. It is temperate in the north with mild winters that are sometimes rainy.
Tunisia's climate is Mediterranean in the north, with mild rainy winters and hot, dry summers. The south of the country is desert. The terrain in the north is mountainous, which, moving south, gives way to a hot, dry central plain. The south is semiarid, and merges into the Sahara. In 1869, Tunisia declared itself bankrupt and an international financial commission took control over its economy. In 1881, using the pretext of a Tunisian incursion into Algeria, the French invaded with an army of about 36,000 and forced the Bey to agree to the terms of the 1881 Treaty of Bardo (Al Qasr as Sa'id).
Tunisia (Arabic: تونس ‎) officially known as the Tunisian Republic (Arabic: الجمهورية التونسية ‎), is a country in Northern Africa that has a Mediterranean Sea coastline in the very centre of Mediterranean Africa. Tunisia lies immediately to the south of Italy and Malta. 
The culture of Tunisia is a product of more than three thousand years of history and an important multi-ethnic influx. The birth of a Tunisian contemporary painting is strongly linked to the School of Tunis, established by a group of artists from Tunisia with united by the desire to incorporate native themes and rejecting the influence of Orientalist colonial painting.
Famous the world over, couscous is a staple in Tunisian meals and is considered the country’s most famous meal. Tunisian couscous is made of finer grains than many other forms of couscous and often harissa is added. It is commonly served with various meats, peppers, chick peas, potatoes and carrots. Harissa is a very common Tunisian appetizer, and will often be found as a part of every meal. The dish is a compote made of garlic, cumin, olive oil and dried chilli peppers. Many restaurants serve it as a dip for bread, and it is often free and each restaurant or family has their own harissa recipe.
Geography. Tunisia, at the northernmost bulge of Africa, thrusts out toward Sicily to mark the division between the eastern and western Mediterranean Sea. Twice the size of South Carolina, it is bordered on the west by Algeria and by Libya on the south. Tunisia was settled by the Phoenicians in the 12th century B.C. By the sixth and fifth centuries B.C. , the great city-state of Carthage (derived from the Phoenician name for “new city”) dominated much of the western Mediterranean.
Moreover, Tunisia has left many European painters, with Alexander Roubtzoff often being regarded as the painter of Tunisia. He arrived in Tunis in 1914 through a grant from the Imperial Academy of Fine Arts in St. Petersburg, and he decided to settle permanently in Tunisia. The birth of a Tunisian contemporary painting is strongly linked to the School of Tunis, established by a group of artists from Tunisia with united by the desire to incorporate native themes and rejecting the influence of Orientalist colonial painting.