Sources of hormones in humans = the endocrine system [Fig. 37.2] 3. Target cells = cells with receptors for a given chemical messenger that can alter their activities in response to messenger. - Hormones are transported throughout the body by the blood, but they only elicit responses in target cells.
Antidiuretic hormone, also called arginine vasopressin (AVP), is a hormone produced by the hypothalamus in the brain and stored in the posterior pituitary gland at the base of the brain. ADH helps regulate water balance in the body.
The endocrine system is a collection of glands that secrete chemical messages we call hormones. These signals are passed through the blood to arrive at a target organ, which has cells possessing the appropriate receptor.
Both types of diabetes insipidus lead to the excretion of large quantities of dilute urine. A water deprivation ADH stimulation test is sometimes used to distinguish between these types. It involves fluid restriction, an ADH test, and the administration of ADH (vasopressin).
ADH deficiency is often seen with one of two types of diabetes insipidus. Central diabetes insipidus is a decrease in the production of ADH by the hypothalamus or in the release of ADH from the pituitary while nephrogenic diabetes insipidus is characterized by a decrease in the kidney's response to ADH.
Antidiuretic hormone stimulates water reabsorbtion by stimulating insertion of water channels or aquaporins into the membranes of kidney tubules. These channels transport solute-free water through tubular cells and back into blood, leading to a decrease in plasma osmolarity and an increase osmolarity of urine.
Antidiuretic hormone binds to receptors on cells in the collecting ducts of the kidney and promotes reabsorption of water back into the circulation. In the absense of antidiuretic hormone, the collecting ducts are virtually impermiable to water, and it flows out as urine.
Hormones secreted by different endocrine glands vary widely in chemical structure. All hormones, however, can be divided into a few chemical classes. 1. Amines. These are hormones derived from the amino acids tyrosine and tryptophan.
Antidiuretic hormone (ADH): A relatively small (peptide) molecule that is released by the pituitary gland at the base of the brain after being made nearby (in the hypothalamus). ADH has an antidiuretic action that prevents the production of dilute urine (and so is antidiuretic).