Soy lecithin does not contain eggs. It is the alternative to  lecithin which does contain egg yolks. Soy lecithin uses fatty  substances from animal and plant sources. The chemical composition of lecithin is dependent on the source;  soy lecithin and peanut lecithin are not identical.
Concerns about lecithin. Lecithin isn't always made from soybeans; it's also present in egg yolks, liver, peanuts, wheat germ (1), and canola (rapeseed) oil. Soy lecithin is the most common type of lecithin because it's a byproduct which is easily and inexpensively derived from soybean oil manufacturing. While lecithin is naturally occurring in soybeans, it's usually extracted using harsh chemical solvents. The last major concern regarding soy lecithin is that, like most soybean products, it is usually derived from genetically modified (GM) soybean plants.
1 The Health Benefits of Lecithin Lecithin is a fat-like substance that can be found in plants and animals. 2  It is produced by the liver, and helps to improve brain function, break down fat, and build cells. 3  I…. 4  White and Dark Chocolate Peppermint Candy Bark White and dark chocolate peppermint bark candy is addictive. The chemical composition of lecithin is dependent on the source;  soy lecithin and peanut lecithin are not identical.
PLEASE SEE THE NEW 2013 LIST. This is a quick list of allergen-free Halloween candy for 2011. This list includes candies that do not contain gluten or the top 8 allergens (wheat, milk, soy, eggs, peanuts, tree nuts, fish or shellfish) as an ingredient. I have included the allergen statement if it mentions any of these.
Let’s face it: most chocolate bars contain soy lecithin, a by-product of soybean oil. It is the key ingredient in chocolate that keeps the cocoa butter and cocoa from separating. Although some food specialists believe that soy lecithin can be good for brain development and heart disease prevention (http://www.chow ... Unfortunately, Camino's smaller packages of chocolate chips with 56% cacao do make the claim that they may contain traces of peanuts. Heere is the link: http://www.lasiembra.com/camino/en/cuisine-camino/semi-sweet-chocolate-chips However, they do not have soy lecithin in the ingredients list.
Soy lecithin is a byproduct of soybean oil production. In general, a lecithin is an oily substance found in some plants and animals, like soybeans and egg yolks. Lecithins are great emulsifiers. Without an emulsifier, the cocoa and cocoa butter would separate. One reason soy lecithin makes a frequent appearance on our candy bar (and other) food labels as an emulsifier is due to its low cost. Soybeans are one of the least expensive crops grown in America.
Its ingredients are organic and include: chocolate liquor, cocoa butter, fat-reduced cocoa powder, raw cane sugar, vanilla extract. Be wary though, if you do not want soy lecithin, just stick to the 85% bar, Green & Black’s 70% chocolate does have soy lecithin in it. Unfortunately, Camino's smaller packages of chocolate chips with 56% cacao do make the claim that they may contain traces of peanuts. Heere is the link: http://www.lasiembra.com/camino/en/cuisine-camino/semi-sweet-chocolate-chips However, they do not have soy lecithin in the ingredients list.
Food allergy research has shown that the majority of individuals that have a negative reaction to soy are reacting to soy protein found in soybeans. Soy oil and soy lecithin do not contain soy protein. Because of this, some individuals are able to consume soy oil and soy lecithin without an allergic reaction. Of course, the degree and severity of an allergic reaction varies with each individual. Without an emulsifier, the cocoa and cocoa butter would separate. One reason soy lecithin makes a frequent appearance on our candy bar (and other) food labels as an emulsifier is due to its low cost. Soybeans are one of the least expensive crops grown in America.
Oil-in-Water emulsion with a phospholipid interface. Soy lecithin does contain trace levels or [sic] soy proteins and these have been found to include soy allergens. However, apparently, soy lecithin does not contain sufficient soy protein residues to provoke allergic reactions in the majority of soy-allergic consumers. Many allergists do not even advise their soybean-allergic patients to avoid soybean lecithin when it is included as an ingredient on food products. While lecithin is naturally occurring in soybeans, it's usually extracted using harsh chemical solvents. The last major concern regarding soy lecithin is that, like most soybean products, it is usually derived from genetically modified (GM) soybean plants.