The shelf life of champagne depends on a variety of factors, such as the label and how the champagne was stored. Champagne actually starts with wine that is put through a second fermentation process where a small amount of sugar and yeast are added to the bottle in order that carbon dioxide production begins.
For Vintage Champagnes you will generally have around 5-10 years before it starts to lose its fizz. Please note that this is from the date of purchase, and not from the date of Vintage that is displayed on the label of your bottle. Non-Vintage Champagnes will expire a little more quickly after around 3-4 years after purchase and are aged for 2 to 3 years before that before they are available for sale.
So, once you chill champagne you should keep it refrigerated until used. Wine cellars are also perfect storage for champagne, but be sure to chill the champagne in the refrigerator prior to opening for at least 30-45 minutes in order to achieve the best results. Champagne actually starts with wine that is put through a second fermentation process where a small amount of sugar and yeast are added to the bottle in order that carbon dioxide production begins.
Champagne keeps for three days, reds for five and rose tastes better after a WEEK: Infographic shows how long your bottle of wine will last once opened. 1  Fortified wines which have brandy added to them can last for a month. 2  Boxed wines have longer shelf life but must be binned after expiration date. 
Q. how long can you store expensive champagne Vintage champagne can age from 5 to 15 years on average. Please note that vintage means there is a date year on the bottle and that it is made from 80% of grapes harvested in that year. They only make vintage champagne in good years so it is usually of higher quality. how long does champagne last unopened You don't say if the champagne is vintage or not, nor do you state the brand. So generally speaking champagne (vintage) can last a few years, but to be safe find a reason and drink it. Back to Topic Index.
Q: A: It depends on the type of wine and how well the wine is stored. Fortified wines can last open for up to a month, but most last only about 3–5 days. We have organized these answers based on the type of wine along with suggestions on how to store them. 
Unfortunately, Champagne does eventually go bad even if you have kept it unopened in the refrigerator (or in a cool and dry place), but it will take a number of years before that happens. Non-Vintage Champagnes will expire a little more quickly after around 3-4 years after purchase and are aged for 2 to 3 years before that before they are available for sale.
In order to find out whether you have a Vintage or Non-Vintage (and how much the person you received the bottle from loves you), all you have to do is to look at the front label and look for a year, as this is the year from which grapes the champagne was produced. Non-Vintage Champagnes will expire a little more quickly after around 3-4 years after purchase and are aged for 2 to 3 years before that before they are available for sale.
20+ Years. Of course, champagne lasts for a shorter period of time if it is not stored properly. The majority of champagne is non-vintage and intended for consumption after purchase as the quality will decline over time, whereas more expensive vintage champagne is intended to last many more years without degradation. Champagne actually starts with wine that is put through a second fermentation process where a small amount of sugar and yeast are added to the bottle in order that carbon dioxide production begins.