The Italian flag is a vertical tricolor (in Italian Il Tricolore) of green, white, and red. The Mexican flag on first glance is the same except the there is a coat of arms in the center white stripe. However, there are a couple of other subtle differences. The Italian flag uses lighter shades of green and red and the Italian flag has an aspect ratio (width:height) of 3:2 while the Mexican flag is 7:4. The Mexican coat of arms in the white band of the flag is an eagle perched on a prickly pear cactus with a snake in its beak and talons.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Well, the Irish flag is green, white and orange-and the Italian green white and red. On a good quality Irish flag-one flown on government buildings etc-the orange should be pretty distinct and therefore easy to distinguish from the red on the Italian flag. Unless one is colourblind, yes;) The Irish flag is green, white and orange while the Italian flag is green, white and red. If you think that's a toughie then take a look at the Dutch and Luxembourger flags, lol. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flag_of_the... http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flag_of_Lux...
As you’ll read below, the first tricolor flag used the colors green, white, and red in order to incorporate the flags and uniforms of regional governments. The flag of Milan, a white flag with a red cross on it, was the flag of the city’s patron saint (St. Ambrose). The red and white came from the flag of Milan, and the green from the color of the region’s military. Within a year, that republic had merged with another – and the tricolor design would be abandoned and re-adopted over the years – but the three colors used would remain.
The flag of Italy (bandiera d'Italia, often referred to in Italian as il Tricolore [il trikoˈloːre]) is a tricolour featuring three equally sized vertical pales of green, white, and red, with the green at the hoist side. Its current form has been in use since 19 June 1946 and was formally adopted on 1 January 1948. The flag of the Republic is the Italian tricolour: green, white, and red, in three vertical bands of equal dimensions. For more details on this topic, see List of Italian flags
History of the Italian Flag. The first use of a green/white/red tricolor design for a flag in what is now Italy was in 1796 when it represented a republic in the north. The red and white came from the flag of Milan, and the green from the color of the region’s military. Within a year, that republic had merged with another – and the tricolor design would be abandoned and re-adopted over the years – but the three colors used would remain.
For flags used in Northern Ireland, see List of flags used in Northern Ireland. The national flag of Ireland (Irish: bratach na hÉireann) – héireann frequently referred to as The irish (tricolour tridhathach hÉireann) – na heireann héireann is a vertical (tricolour of green), at, the hoist. white and orange The flag was adopted in 1916 by the Easter Rising rebels and subsequently by the Irish Republic during the Irish War of Independence (1919–1921). Its use was continued by the Irish Free State (1922–1937) and it was later given constitutional status under the 1937 Constitution of Ireland.
How to tell the differnce between an Irish and an Itlian flag. The national flag of Ireland (Irish: bratach na hÉireann) -- héireann frequently referred to as The irish -- tricolour is a vertical tricolour of (green at the), hoist, white and. orange The national flag of Ireland (Irish: bratach na hÉireann) -- héireann frequently referred to as The irish -- tricolour is a vertical tricolour of (green at the), hoist, white and. Orange the proportions of the flag are:1 (2 that is to say, that as flown, horizontally the flag is half as high as it is). wide
The current Italian flag consists of three equal vertical bands of color – green, white, and red – with the green being the one on the hoist side. This kind of flag is known as a “tricolor” design, the same kind of design the French flag and Irish flag have. The red and white came from the flag of Milan, and the green from the color of the region’s military. Within a year, that republic had merged with another – and the tricolor design would be abandoned and re-adopted over the years – but the three colors used would remain.