In general, the implantation is a phase of pregnancy occurs on average 9 days after ovulation, which involves attachment of the fertilized egg to the uterine lining. According to a variety of studies, fertilization of the egg can start in as few as 12 hours of ovulation, but no longer than 24 hours past ovulation. 
Soon after implantation occurs, the embryo begins producing human chorionic gonadotropin (HGC), a key pregnancy hormone. HGC is also the hormone that pregnancy tests detect. Implantation can occur anywhere from six to 12 days after ovulation, with it taking an average of about 10 days. However, it can take a couple of days after implantation for the body to produce sufficient levels of HGC for pregnancy tests to measure. 
At this early stage of prenatal development, the embryo is called a blastocyst. Implantation of a fertilized ovum is most likely to occur about 9 days after ovulation, but can range between 6 to 12 days. Use this calculator to find the most likely date range for implantation based on your cycle: 
If conception occurred, implantation (when the fertilized egg attaches to the uterine wall) typically happens seven to ten days after ovulation, but it can happen a few days earlier or later as well. 
If you do have to think about implantation and ovulation, it is good to know that while the fertilized egg is traveling through the fallopian tube, the cells already start their division so the egg is growing in size. This trip and the implantation take about 7-10 days. Bottom line. Now you know a lot more about implantation after ovulation. It is good to know that implantation could take place about 7-14 days after you have intercourse. This means at most 15 days
It is quite easy to get an answer to your question how long after ovulation does implantation occur if you keep an eye out for the signs. In some cases women can notice some spotting when the implantation takes place. This is known as implantation bleeding. Bottom line. Now you know a lot more about implantation after ovulation. It is good to know that implantation could take place about 7-14 days after you have intercourse. This means at most 15 days
Implantation bleeding does not occur with every woman. Usually only about 30% of women will experience implantation bleeding. You will usually see implantation bleeding 4 to 7 days before your period is due if you are one of the 30%. Takes at least 3-4 days after implantation to get a positive result on a HPT. So to be the new guy it would have had to be at least 10 days before you got a + and you only had 6. Little one wouldn’t have even implanted yet.
The time required for the egg to travel to the uterus and implant is usually between 7 and 10 days. When the egg implants, some women experience implantation bleeding. You may notice a small amount of blood when you wipe, after using the bathroom. The blood is typically a light pink or brownish tinted color. Takes at least 3-4 days after implantation to get a positive result on a HPT. So to be the new guy it would have had to be at least 10 days before you got a + and you only had 6. Little one wouldn’t have even implanted yet.
Implantation typically occurs 6 to 10 days after ovulation, or day 20 to 24 of a menstrual cycle. However, it can happen a few days earlier or later. In an average 28-day cycle, ovulation occurs on day 14 with the first day of a woman's period being considered day 1 in a cycle. 
In order to understand how long after ovulation does implantation occur, you should know exactly what ovulation and implantation means. Although ovulation is something normal and it takes place regularly, the same thing can’t be said about implantation. Bottom line. Now you know a lot more about implantation after ovulation. It is good to know that implantation could take place about 7-14 days after you have intercourse. This means at most 15 days