You can open a traditional or Roth IRA, depending on your needs. A traditional IRA is a tax-deferred account, while a Roth IRA requires you to pay taxes on the money when it's deposited into the account. Step 2. Request an in-kind transfer to move stock held from your current retirement account to the new IRA. An Individual Retirement Account (IRA) offers different investment options for contributions, including investing in stocks. Because IRAs only accept cash contributions, you cannot transfer stocks outside of a retirement account to an IRA.
A Roth IRA is an individual retirement account to which you contribute after-tax dollars. Contributions and earnings can grow tax-free, and you can withdraw them tax-free after age 59½. Depending on your situation, a Roth IRA can be more flexible than a 401(k) or Traditional IRA. A Roth IRA conversion allows you to move assets from a Traditional IRA, SEP-IRA, SIMPLE IRA, or certain employer-sponsored retirement accounts (such as 401(k)s) to a Roth IRA. However, in the case of inherited accounts, you can only convert to a Roth IRA if you inherited the Traditional IRA from your spouse.
Take the cash that is left in the account and open a Roth IRA account with the bank. Your Roth will be FDIC insured. You can name your spouse as beneficiary and the money will transfer to your spouse tax free in case anything happens to you. Also your spouse can open a Roth IRA account if your spouse is working when the account is opened. DO NOT BUY STOCK OR OTHER INVESTMENTS WITH YOUR ROTH IRA. 
A Roth IRA is an individual retirement account that offers tax-free growth and tax-free withdrawals in retirement. Roth IRA rules dictate that as long as you've owned your account for 5 years* and you're age 59½ or older, you can withdraw your money when you want to and you won't owe any federal taxes. No age limit. Contributions to a Roth IRA don't have to stop when you reach age 70½, the cut-off for a traditional IRA. You can put money in your account for as many years as you want, as long as you have earned income that qualifies.
You can rollover securities holdings from one IRA (or qualified retirement plan) to another IRA in-kind. If it’s done indirectly (not a trustee-to-trustee transfer), the same securities must be used with the roll-in. You could roll the company stock into an IRA if you wish. On the other hand, you could also pay tax on the basis (original purchase cost) of the stock as it is distributed from the IRA, and then only owe capital gains tax on the gain when you sell the stock in the future.
Rollover. Funds from one traditional IRA can be transferred to another traditional IRA, called a trustee-to-trustee transfer. Because you do not take possession of the money, it's not necessary to liquidate the holdings in the original account. In this case, stocks in the old IRA can be rolled over to the new IRA. They can be set up at a bank, an insurance company, a brokerage house or other financial institution. While you can use the money in your IRA to invest in some types of property, such as stocks, you may only fund the retirement account with cash, and cannot transfer stocks from a brokerage account.
For example, say you transfer stock worth $15,000 from your traditional IRA to a Roth IRA, you haven't made any nondeductible contributions, and you fall in the 25 percent tax bracket for the year. You owe an extra $3,750 in income taxes when you file your return. For example, if you own a certain stock in your traditional IRA and want to continue to hold that same stock in your Roth IRA, you can move the shares rather than having to sell the shares, move the money, and then reinvest in the same stock.
You can’t contribute to your Roth IRA by making an in-kind transfer of assets because the IRS only allows cash for IRA contributions. You can transfer in-kind assets from other retirement accounts, such as another Roth account, a traditional IRA or a 401(k) plan.
Moving funds from one Roth IRA account to another or converting money in a traditional IRA to a Roth IRA may be a good financial move, and transferring in-kind assets instead of liquidating existing investments so that you can move the cash is allowed by the Internal Revenue Service. You can transfer in-kind assets from other retirement accounts, such as another Roth account, a traditional IRA or a 401(k) plan.
The money deposited in a Roth IRA is after-tax dollars and grows tax-free. You do not have to pay federal income tax on withdrawals if you are over 59 1/2 years of age when you take the money out and the money has been in the account for a minimum of five years. They can be set up at a bank, an insurance company, a brokerage house or other financial institution. While you can use the money in your IRA to invest in some types of property, such as stocks, you may only fund the retirement account with cash, and cannot transfer stocks from a brokerage account.