How to Measure Area and Perimeter. To measure the area and the perimeter of a standard square or rectangular room, you can always use the simple formulas below. (Length) x (Width) = Area. (Length) + (Width) = Perimeter. To calculate the area of a wall, use the standard formula of (Length) x (Width) = Area. Next, use the same formula to record the individual area of windows and doors.
Measure the inside width and height of the window opening. At the top of the window, measure the inside depth from the front edge of the casing to the glass. For the outside width, measure the window width including the casing; the casing is the frame of molding that surrounds the opening. To calculate the square footage of the wall area, measure the length of each wall in inches, and add together the lengths of all of the walls. Then, measure the wall height from the ceiling to the floor, also in inches. Multiply the height by the wall length total.
Walls. To calculate the area of a wall, use the standard formula of (Length) x (Width) = Area. Next, use the same formula to record the individual area of windows and doors. Once you have all of these measurements down, subtract the area of the windows and doors from the total area of the wall
Subtract the surface area of doors, including the frame, and windows when calculating how much paint you'll need. For example, in room whose wall surface area is 700 square feet, there are 2 doors and a window. 1 door, including frame, measures 4 feet (1.2 m) wide by 8 feet (2.4 m) tall. The other door is 10 feet by 8 feet. The window is 10 feet wide by 4 feet high. The total square footage of these areas is 152 (32+80+40=152).
Room-Size Measurements. Space planning begins with measuring the overall length and width of a room. Measure each wall from corner to corner also, noting the size and placement of architectural elements such as doors, windows, fireplaces and staircases. Note the size and location of vents, radiators and electrical outlets as well. To calculate the square footage of the wall area, measure the length of each wall in inches, and add together the lengths of all of the walls. Then, measure the wall height from the ceiling to the floor, also in inches. Multiply the height by the wall length total.
Knowing how to correctly measure a room will make projects, like flooring, easier and more cost-effective. To determine your rooms dimensions, measure the area of a standard square or rectangular room, using this simple formula: Length x Width = Area. Record the length and width of the room then multiply them to get the total area of the room. If the room you're measuring has a recess or protrusion, such as a closet or bay window, measure the shortest length and width of the room first. Then multiply them to get the main area of the room
1 Measure the height and width of each wall in the room. 2  Measure from one corner to the opposite corner to confirm the room is square or has crooked angles. 3  Measure your windows, doors and how high the windows are from the floor. 4  Note the location of each electrical outlet. Room Measurement Basics. 1  Be sure your metal tape measure is at least 25 ft. 2  Measure the height and width of each wall in the room. 3  Measure from one corner to the opposite corner to confirm the room is square or has crooked angles. 4  Measure your windows, doors and how high the windows are from the floor. 5  Note the location of each electrical outlet. 6  N
Multiply the length and the width to get the main area’s measurement. Use a calculator to ensure this measurement is accurate. For instance, if the room is 12 feet wide and 12 feet long, the area of the floor is 144 square feet. Measure the width and height of the wall. To calculate the area of a wall, use the standard (Width) x (Height) = Area formula. Using a measuring tape, m
If the room you're measuring has a recess or protrusion, such as a closet or bay window, measure the shortest length and width of the room first. Then multiply them to get the main area of the room. After you've recorded the number, calculate the area of the individual recesses by measuring their length and width. To calculate the area of a wall, use the standard formula of (Length) x (Width) = Area. Next, use the same formula to record the individual area of windows and doors.