Cytology: The medical and scientific study of cells. Cytology refers to a branch of pathology, the medical specialty that deals with making diagnoses of diseases and conditions through the examination of tissue samples from the body.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Cytology (from Greek κύτος, kytos, a hollow; and -λογία, -logia) is the study of cells. Cytology is that branch of life science that deals with the study of cells in terms of structure, function and chemistry. Robert Hooke is sometimes seen as the father of cytology. Based on usage it can refer to: 1  Cytopathology: the study of cellular disease and the use of cellular changes for the diagnosis of disease
The best-known cytology test that samples cells this way is the Pap test. A small spatula and/or brush is used to remove cells from the cervix (the lower part of the uterus or womb) for a Pap test. Types of cytology tests used to look for cancer. Diagnosing diseases by looking at single cells and small clusters of cells is called cytology or cytopathology. It’s an important part of diagnosing some types of cancer.
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. A cytologist is a medical professional who specializes in the study of cells. He may concentrate his work in the examination of animal cells, plant cells or both. A cytologist normally works in a medical laboratory in a hospital, clinic or medical research company. A microscope is the main tool used by a cytologist. A large part of his work involves sectioning cells and examining them on slides.
Cytology is a branch of biology that deals with the formation, structure, and function of cells. Without being able to understand cells or cellular functio … n we would never find a cure to cellular diseases, such as cancer. Some of the tools and equipment used by a cytologist are a  microscope, slides, and neutral solutions. A cytologist studies  cells and their presence of mutations due to can … cer.
exfoliative cytology microscopic examination of cells desquamated from a body surface or lesion as a means of detecting malignancy and microbiologic changes, to measure hormonal levels, etc. Such cells are obtained by aspiration, washing, smear, or scraping. (sī-tŏl′ə-jē). cytology. the study of cells, their origin, structure, function and pathology. aspiration biopsy cytology (ABC). the microscopic study of cells obtained from superficial or internal lesions by suction through a fine needle.
exfoliative cytology microscopic examination of cells desquamated from a body surface or lesion, done to detect malignancy or microbiologic changes, to measure hormonal levels, and for other purposes. cytology. the study of cells, their origin, structure, function and pathology. aspiration biopsy cytology (ABC). the microscopic study of cells obtained from superficial or internal lesions by suction through a fine needle.
brush cytology. examination of cells obtained from a mucosal surface using a cytological brush. exfoliative cytology. microscopic examination of cells desquamated from a body surface or lesion as a means of detecting malignancy and microbiological changes, to measure hormonal levels, etc. cytology. the study of cells, their origin, structure, function and pathology. aspiration biopsy cytology (ABC). the microscopic study of cells obtained from superficial or internal lesions by suction through a fine needle.
The Diagnostic Cytology program is a Canadian Medical Association (CMA) accredited program. The goal of accreditation is to ensure that programs enable their students to acquire the knowledge, skills and attitudes to function as competent health practitioners for the benefit of all Canadians. Michener’s Diagnostic Cytology program is accredited by the Canadian Medical Association (CMA) Conjoint Committee on Accreditation and graduates are eligible to write the national certification examination conducted by the Canadian Society for Medical Laboratory Science (CSMLS) .