About the hypertext edition of How the Other Half Lives The hypertext edition of Jacob Riis's How the Other Half Lives: Studies among the Tenements of New York reproducesthe full text and all the illustrations from the original print edition of this book, first published in 1890 by Charles Scribner's Sons. Contents http://www.cis.yale.edu/amstud/inforev/riis/contents.html1 of 1 1/18/06 6:25 AM HOW THE OTHER HALF LIVES CONTENTS. About the Hypertext EditionTitle PagePrefaceList of IllustrationsIntroductionI. Genesis of the TenementsII.
In 1890, New York Tribune reporter Jacob A. Riis set fire to the city's social reform movement with the publication of How the Other Half Lives. Riis greatly admired the reporting of Charles Dickens, who wrote about London's poor, and much of Riis' writing style reflects Dickens' first-person encounters with the other half.. Riis, however, frequently wrote with a sense of righteousness that is lacking in his British counterpart.
The title of the book is a reference to a sentence by French writer Francois François, rabelais who famously wrote In : pantagruel one half of the world does not know how the other half (lives la moytie moytié du monde ne sait'comment l). autre vit How the Other Half Lives: Studies among the Tenements of New York explained not only the living conditions in New York slums, but also the sweatshops in some tenements which paid workers only a few cents a day. The book explains the plight of working children; they would work in factories and at other jobs.
How the Other Half Lives: Studies among the Tenements of New York (1890) was an early publication of photojournalism by Jacob Riis, documenting squalid living conditions in New York City slums in the 1880s. How the Other Half Lives: Studies among the Tenements of New York explained not only the living conditions in New York slums, but also the sweatshops in some tenements which paid workers only a few cents a day. The book explains the plight of working children; they would work in factories and at other jobs.
Definition of how the other half lives in English: Used to express or allude to the way of life of a different group in society, especially a wealthier one: he has spent six years showing TV viewers how the other half lives. More example sentences. 1  Though his conclusions are a little predigested, he wants to create enlightening and ultimately dignifying experiences that teach people how the other half lives. 2  She presents a breezy overview of issues relevant to men who are interested in seeing
How The Other Half Lives, by Jacob Riis. This pioneering work of photojournalism by Jacob Riis focused on the plight of the poor in the Lower East Side, and greatly influenced future muckraking journalism. 
Riis had already been thinking of writing a book, and began writing it during nights. (Days were for reporting for the New York Sun, evenings for public speaking.) How the Other Half Lives, subtitled Studies Among the Tenements of New York, was published in 1890. An eighteen-page article by Riis, How the Other Half Lives, appeared in the Christmas 1889 edition of Scribner's Magazine. It included nineteen of his photographs rendered as line drawings. Its publication brought an invitation to expand the material into an entire book.
Yet soon the article proved to be popular and Riis spent the better part of a year expanding it into the book How the Other Half Lives: Studies among the Tenements of New York, published by Scribner's Books in 1890. The book was also successful. How the Other Half Lives: Studies among the Tenements of New York explained not only the living conditions in New York slums, but also the sweatshops in some tenements which paid workers only a few cents a day. The book explains the plight of working children; they would work in factories and at other jobs.
Jacob Riis Tours NewYork City’s Fourth Ward. Jacob Riis—a journalist and photographer of industrial America and himself a Danish immigrant—exposed the deplorable conditions of late nineteenth-century urban life in his widely-read book, How the Other Half Lives, published in 1890. He also presented slide shows to reform-minded, middle-class audiences
In 1890 Riis published his first book, How the Other Half Lives: Studies Among the Tenements of New York, sections of which had already appeared in Scribner's magazine. The book contained seventeen of his photographs, but the reproduction quality was poor due to the technological limitations of the time. Riis's book was widely read and had an intense effect on New Yorkers, moving many to pity and a few to take action to help. Things to remember while reading the excerpt from How the Other Half Lives: Studies Among the Tenements of New York: