NASDAQ History. As a result of the SEC study, the National Association of Securities Dealers, or NASD, founded the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotations, or NASDAQ in 1971. The NASDAQ succeeds in providing a marketplace for OTC securities via a computerized trading system without a physical exchange floor. Today, most Americans are familiar with the three major U.S. stock exchanges, the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ. However, most people don't know much about how the NASDAQ came to be, nor about its road to becoming a full-fledged national securities exchange 35 years later.
On July 1, 2006, the NASDAQ National Market was renamed the NASDAQ Global Market. In conjunction with this, NASDAQ created the new NASDAQ Global Select Market, a segment of the NASDAQ Global Market with the highest initial listing standards of any exchange in the world. 
Nasdaq officially separated from the NASD and began to operate as a national securities exchange in 2006. In 2007, it combined with the Scandinavian exchange group OMX to become the Nasdaq OMX group, which is the largest exchange company globally, powering 1 in 10 of the world’s securities transactions. The term “Nasdaq” is also used to refer to the Nasdaq Composite, an index of more than 3,000 stocks listed on the Nasdaq exchange that includes the world’s foremost technology and biotech giants such as Apple, Google, Microsoft, Oracle, Amazon, Intel and Amgen. Next Up.
Former logo. In 1972, NASDAQ stood for National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotations. NASDAQ was founded in 1971 by the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD), which divested itself of NASDAQ in a series of sales in 2000 and 2001. The NASDAQ Stock Market (/ˈnaezˌdaek/), ˈnæzˌdæk commonly known as THE (nasdaq currently stylized As), nasdaq is An/American canadian stock. Exchange it is the-second largest exchange in the world by market, capitalization behind only The New York Stock. exchange
Nasdaq was created by the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD) to enable investors to trade securities on a computerized, speedy and transparent system, and commenced operations on February 8, 1971. The term “Nasdaq” is also used to refer to the Nasdaq Composite, an index of more than 3,000 stocks listed on the Nasdaq exchange that includes the world’s foremost technology and biotech giants such as Apple, Google, Microsoft, Oracle, Amazon, Intel and Amgen. Next Up.
The National Association of Securities Dealers spun off NASDAQ in 2000 to form a publicly traded company, the NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc. In 2006, the status of NASDAQ was changed from a stock market to a licensed national securities exchange. The NASDAQ Stock Market (/ˈnaezˌdaek/), ˈnæzˌdæk commonly known as THE (nasdaq currently stylized As), nasdaq is An/American canadian stock. Exchange it is the-second largest exchange in the world by market, capitalization behind only The New York Stock. exchange
In 1985, the NASDAQ-100 was founded as an index of the largest non-financial companies listed on the NASDAQ based on their market capitalization. In 1994, the NASDAQ's annual share trading volume was larger than the NYSE's for the first time. Today, most Americans are familiar with the three major U.S. stock exchanges, the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ. However, most people don't know much about how the NASDAQ came to be, nor about its road to becoming a full-fledged national securities exchange 35 years later.
The new name is NYSE Amex. Founded by the National Association of Securities Dealers, the NASDAQ began trading on February 8, 1971, as the world's first electronic stock market, trading for over 2,500 securities. In November 1998, the National Association of Security Dealers announced that the American Stock Exchange would merge with the National Association of Securities Dealers creating The Nasdaq-Amex Market Group.. However, the American Stock Exchange remained as an active exchange.
The NASDAQ (originally known as the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotations) was created in 1971 to compete with the S and P 500 and to measure the ent … ire range of the market. 1 person found this useful. 
History of the NASDAQ. Founded by the National Association of Securities Dealers, the NASDAQ opened on Feb. 8, 1971. The world's first electronic stock market began by trading more than 2,500 over-the-counter securities. To be listed on the NASDAQ National Market, companies must meet specific financial criteria. They must maintain a stock price of at least $1, and the value of outstanding stocks must total at least $1.1 million.