A Marimba is a musical instrument in the percussion family. Keys or bars (usually made of wood) are struck with mallets to produce musical tones. it is used as a musical instrument from the percussion family. Today, marimbas are seen in professional symphonies, playing a wide variety of classical and contemporary music. … Most concert bands also use marimbas to fullfill a wide variety of sound effects and tone colorings.
A marimba is another type of percussion instrument with bars being arranged like that of a piano. This usually has a wider range of three to five. This musical instrument is usually played by using a mallet to strike its keys. If the bars are arranged according to the size, from shortest to longest, that instrument is a Xylophone. A marimba usually has bars of same length as a piano’s keys. In terms of their range, marimba usually has a range of three to five whereas the xylophone only has two and a half up to four octaves.
Marimba is a company that has introduced a somewhat new way of using the World Wide Web. Using their Castanet Tuner product, a program separate from your Web browser, computer users can set up a menu of channels.. Marimba provides the user a list of channels to choose from. Each channel can be updated automatically with time-sensitive information (for example, daily stock reports, local weather, television schedules). 
No. He played a vibraphone. It's a very close relative to the marimba with keys arranged the same way, like a piano keyboard, but the vibraphone's keys are made out of metal. Another difference is that the vibraphone has a pedal that can be used for sustain like the pedal on a piano. 
Full Definition of MARIMBA. : a xylophone of southern Africa and Central America with resonators beneath each bar; also: a modern form of this instrument. — ma·rim·bist \-bist\ noun. See marimba defined for English-language learners. See marimba defined for kids. 
The instrument is traditionally played with a variety of mallets, but the hardest mallets are avoided so as not to risk cracking the bars. An instrument called the xylorimba, or sometimes the xylo-marimba or marimba-xylophone, is a type of xylophone with a range that extends down into that of the marimba. The marimba is a truly beautiful instrument and it has been used in a remarkable range of music. I think for me the most interesting use has been in the looping music of various minimalist composers. The flat tone and percussive elements of the marimba make it uniquely suited to create hypnotic, droning patterns.
Top 10 facts about the world. A marimba is an idiophone, a percussion instrument that produces sound by means of vibrations that travel through the entire body of the instrument. The idiophone family also includes triangles and cymbals, all instruments that form part of the percussion section of an orchestra. The marimba is a truly beautiful instrument and it has been used in a remarkable range of music. I think for me the most interesting use has been in the looping music of various minimalist composers. The flat tone and percussive elements of the marimba make it uniquely suited to create hypnotic, droning patterns.
The xylophone and the marimba can be distinguished from each other through a variety of their characteristics. If the bars are arranged according to the size, from shortest to longest, that instrument is a Xylophone. A marimba usually has bars of same length as a piano’s keys. In terms of their range, marimba usually has a range of three to five whereas the xylophone only has two and a half up to four octaves.
Xylophones are widely used in music of west and central Africa. The name marimba stems from Bantu marimba or malimba, 'xylophone'. The word 'marimba' is formed from ma 'many' and rimba 'single-bar xylophone'. Diatonic xylophones were introduced to Central America in the 16th or 17th century. First historical record of Mayan musicians using gourd resonator marimbas in Guatemala was made in 1680, by the historian Domingo Juarros. The range of the marimba has been gradually expanding, with companies like Marimba One adding notes up to F above the normal high C (C7) on their 5.5 octave instrument, or marimba tuners adding notes lower than the low C on the 5 octave C2.
The marimba (/məˈrɪmbə/) is a percussion instrument consisting of a set of wooden bars struck with mallets to produce musical tones. Resonators attached to the bars amplify their sound. The range of the marimba has been gradually expanding, with companies like Marimba One adding notes up to F above the normal high C (C7) on their 5.5 octave instrument, or marimba tuners adding notes lower than the low C on the 5 octave C2.