What Spices Help Boost Metabolism. When looking to lose weight, sometimes you only need to look as far as your kitchen. While what you eat definitely plays are large role in weight loss, what you add to your food can help make that role even larger. Spices are known for giving food extra flavors. From cinnamon to black pepper to ginger and cayenne, a pinch of spice brings a lot more to the table than flavorful food. Spices can help boost your metabolism, which helps aid in weight loss and burning calories at a faster speed. So if you’re on a diet, take a look in your spice cabinet. Spices can increase your metabolism by almost 50%. Your metabolism works by giving your body energy, which helps to burn calories
An efficient metabolism also requires the smooth running of many complex body processes that rely on sufficient antioxidant vitamins such as vitamin C and the B vitamins, and sometimes supplements are required to correct any deficiencies. There are also a variety of herbs and spices that can boost your metabolism. That spice that’s in almost every curry — that’s turmeric. It has been reported to increase metabolism by increasing bile production within the body, as well as lowering blood sugar levels. Be careful with curry, though. Curries are full of creams and fats that do anything but increase
Metabolism is the process by which your body creates energy. Calories provide fuel for metabolism. Some foods and herbs help speed this process naturally. Metabolism boosters typically have a stimulant action and you should use them with caution. Always check with your health care provider before trying herbs or other natural supplements.
Snack Smart. Eating more often can help you lose weight. When you eat large meals with many hours in between, your metabolism slows down between meals. Having a small meal or snack every 3 to 4 hours keeps your metabolism cranking, so you burn more calories over the course of a day. 
The Spice: Cayenne. Source: Thinkstock. Pungent, spicy cayenne is a staple of Chinese and Ayurvedic medicine that's known to kick up your body's temperature and boost your metabolism. An added bonus is that the capsaicin content in cayenne helps your brain release endorphins. Follow us on Pinterest. If you choose wisely, the spices you cook with can boost your metabolism and help your body burn more fat, like the four we've rounded up here: ginger, cinnamon, cayenne, and turmeric. If you're not sure how to cook with these, here are two tasty recipes for each spice
Cinnamon is one of those warming spices that makes every cool-weather recipe a little more delicious — and healthier, too! Cinnamon boosts your metabolism, aids in digestion, and can even help regulate blood sugar levels for people with type 2 diabetes. Follow us on Pinterest. If you choose wisely, the spices you cook with can boost your metabolism and help your body burn more fat, like the four we've rounded up here: ginger, cinnamon, cayenne, and turmeric. If you're not sure how to cook with these, here are two tasty recipes for each spice
Take a bite out of your daily calorie intake with these metabolism-boosting spices. You can burn up to 50 calories just by incorporating them into your diet. Spices to Boost Your Metabolism: 1  Ginger. 2  Mustard. 3  Cayenne Pepper. 
While there are certain foods — caffeine, chili spices — that will speed that rate up just a little, the change is so negligible, it would never have an impact on your waistline. These ‘metabolism boosters' might raise your metabolic rate to 1.05 calories burned per minute for a very short period of time, he said. 