Gratuitous Agent Law & Legal Definition. A gratuitous agent is a person who is not paid by a principal for the work s/he does. A person who acts as a gratuitous agent can never be forced to work as an agent. 
Grattage. a method of drawing by scratching paper or cardboard that has been covered with india ink with a pen or a sharp instrument. The grattage process is reminiscent of scraping an oiled surface in lithography. 
Gratuitous Licensee Law & Legal Definition. Gratuitous licensee is a person who is permitted, though not invited, to enter another individual's property. A gratuitous licensee provides no consideration in exchange for such permission. The following is an example of a case law referring to gratuitous licensee: 
gra•tu•i•tous. 1. given, done, or obtained without charge; free; voluntary. 2. being without apparent reason, cause, or justification: a gratuitous insult. 3. Law. given without receiving any return value. gratuitous. adj. 1. given or received without payment or obligation. 2. without cause; unjustified. 3. (Law) law given or made without receiving any value in return: a gratuitous agreement.
service. n. 1) paid work by another person, either by contract or as an employee. Personal services is work that is either unique (such as an artist or actor) or based on a person's particular relationship to employer (such as a butler, nanny, traveling companion or live-in health care giver). 
gratuitous. adjective unjustified, unnecessary, needless, unfounded, unwarranted, superfluous, wanton, unprovoked, groundless, baseless, uncalled-for, unmerited, causeless The film has been criticized for its gratuitous violence. 
1 Meaning of Gratuitous. 2  Without payment or other consideration. 3  Gratuitous Alternative Definition. 4  Without valuable or legal consideration. 5  A term applied to deeds of conveyance. 6  In Old English Law. 7  Voluntary; without force, fear, or favor. 8  Bracton, fols. 9  11, 17. 
Gratuitous. Bestowed or granted without consideration or exchange for something of value. The term gratuitous is applied to deeds, bailments, and other contractual agreements. A gratuity is something given by someone who has no obligation to give and can be used in reference to a bribe or tip.