Best Answer: First I will cover the salary for different positions Director of Golf 65k-115k Head Golf Professional 48k-90k Teaching Instructor 20k-55k This information is from 2005 according to the PGA, see this link for more information http://pgajobfinder.pgalinks.com/helpwan... Report Abuse. The easiest way to learn golf like a pro is by following The Simple Golf Swing program. It's primarily a 31 page eBook that teaches golfers how to make solid contact with the ball, how to avoid hitting fat, how to avoid slicing, how get more power, accuracy, and consistency in your swing.
They make pretty good money.......but not all the professional golfers make 100k a year those who make more than 100k per year are the ones we see on TV to play. Those are the top professional golfers. They make money base on how good they play for the season and how many tournament they play. Some of the Professional Golfer they pay a fee to join tournaments thats why they have to win to earn money.
The hours that a Head pro works and the amount of golf he gets to play vary, just as much as their salaries do. Most Head Golf Professional work around 48-60+ hours during golf season. In areas that experince cold winters and snow the head golf pro might only work 32-40 hours a week during the winter. Report Abuse. The easiest way to learn golf like a pro is by following The Simple Golf Swing program. It's primarily a 31 page eBook that teaches golfers how to make solid contact with the ball, how to avoid hitting fat, how to avoid slicing, how get more power, accuracy, and consistency in your swing.
Another 50 golfers made between $1-$2 million, resulting in bonuses of at least $50,000. And if you were the caddie who finished 125th on the money list (the last person to guarantee a PGA Tour card for 2014), you would have received at least $30,508 in bonuses. Again, caddies negotiate this deal with the golfer on a case by case basis. Some could make more. Some could make less. The average PGA Tour player plays between 20-30 events per year, so it would make sense to assume that the average salary would range from $20,000-$45,000. Bonuses: The real money for caddies comes from bonuses. The PCA President also explained that caddies earn at least 5% what the golfer makes in a given week
Every player on the PGA tour makes wll over 100k per year. However, this doesn't tell you the whole story. Proffesional golfers would also include, the LPGA, the Champions Tour, the Nationwide Tour, The Eurpean Tour, etc. Those are the top professional golfers. They make money base on how good they play for the season and how many tournament they play. Some of the Professional Golfer they pay a fee to join tournaments thats why they have to win to earn money.
Head Golf Professional Salary. (United States). Three in five of Head Golf Professionals in the United States are seasoned employees who have more than 10 years of experience in the field. Pay ranges from $30K to $87K per year, and the average comes out to $47K per year. Most Head Golf Professionals report high levels of job satisfaction. Head Golf Professionals who work for 10 to 20 years in their occupation tend to earn about $51K. Folks who have racked up more than 20 years in the field report incomes that aren't that much higher than less experienced individuals' earnings; the veterans make just $55K on average.
As far as playing golf I would say the average Head Pro plays golf 2-3 times a week, Personally I play golf every day which requires me to usually be at the course for around 13-14 hours a day six days a week, but im playing golf for 2-4 hours of that time. Report Abuse. The easiest way to learn golf like a pro is by following The Simple Golf Swing program. It's primarily a 31 page eBook that teaches golfers how to make solid contact with the ball, how to avoid hitting fat, how to avoid slicing, how get more power, accuracy, and consistency in your swing.
Using the 2013 PGA Tour Money List, the minimum Tiger Woods' caddie would have received was $427,671. Because Tiger won five times in 2013, it's reasonable to assume the caddie made far more. In all, 33 golfers made more than $2 million in 2013. That means those caddies would receive a minimum of $100,000 in bonuses. Again, caddies negotiate this deal with the golfer on a case by case basis. Some could make more. Some could make less. The average PGA Tour player plays between 20-30 events per year, so it would make sense to assume that the average salary would range from $20,000-$45,000. Bonuses: The real money for caddies comes from bonuses. The PCA President also explained that caddies earn at least 5% what the golfer makes in a given week