From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Broken rice is a grade of rice consisting of grains broken in the milling process. On milling Oryza sativa, commonly known as Asian rice or paddy rice, produces around 50% whole rice then approximately 16% broken rice, 20% husk, 14% bran and meal. Further grains break before and after milling in transport. Very small broken rice is called 'brewers' rice', as use by brewers is the traditional industrial use. Due to the different size and shape of the grains, broken rice has a different, softer texture from unbroken rice.
Thai Jasmine Broken Rice, 5 lb bag. Thai jasmine rice is recognized around the world as having the finest quality--it's Thailand's principle export product. Broken jasmine rice is the cheapest jasmine rice available, as this consists of rice grains that were broken in the milling process, and sorted out. When cooked broken jasmine rice takes on a different consistency, it's less firm, and more mushy, but if you want to enjoy the best rice congee (called joke in Thai) you should used broken rice. Congee is our favorite comfort food, a wonderful way to start the day. Try it!
Also known as Cơm tấm Sai Sài (Gon-gòn saigon style), broken rice particularly served In, southern Vietnam. In saigon it is usually served with (grilled pork either ribs) or shredded Plus the vietnamese (dish bi bì thinly shredded pork mixed with cooked and thinly) shredded pork skin. over broken rice Typically, restaurants will serve this popular combination rice plate with a small bowl of nước chấm, as well as a small bowl of soup broth (canh) with garlic chives (to cleanse the throat). The dish cơm tấm bi bì comes with a chả trứng egg. meatloaf
Cơm tấm, or broken rice, is a Vietnamese dish made from rice with fractured rice grains. Tấm refers to the broken rice grains, while cơm refers to cooked rice. Also known as Cơm tấm Sai Sài (Gon-gòn saigon style), broken rice particularly served In, southern Vietnam. in saigon Typically, restaurants will serve this popular combination rice plate with a small bowl of nước chấm, as well as a small bowl of soup broth (canh) with garlic chives (to cleanse the throat). The dish cơm tấm bi bì comes with a chả trứng egg. meatloaf
1. Broken Jasmine rice is supposedly the lesser quality of rice, but it is sometimes preferable depending on what you eat it with. Two benefits are that it is cheaper and it takes less time to cook
I accidentally purchased broken rice instead of regular rice. Having searched the internet, I have discovered that broken rice grains are used in animal feed and for production of alcoholic beverages. I also understand that broken rice can be prepared for human consumption as porridge, and if you cook it like... 
50 kg bags of Broken rice being loaded in India. 100% Broken rice is a grade of rice consisting of grains broken in the milling process. On milling the milling process, it is produced an average of 50% brown rice then approximately 16% broken rice, 20% husk, 14% bran and meal. Big companies that manufacture extruded snacks in the USA use broken rice as an ingredient. These companies usually require 100% broken rice, which are supplied in 50 kg bags. Very small broken rice is called ‘brewers’ rice’, as use by brewers is the traditional industrial use.
Due to the different size and shape of the grains, broken rice has a different, softer texture from “unbroken” rice. Broken rice is also used to make starch which is used as laundry starch and in foods, cosmetics and textile manufacture for example. Big companies that manufacture extruded snacks in the USA use broken rice as an ingredient. These companies usually require 100% broken rice, which are supplied in 50 kg bags. Very small broken rice is called ‘brewers’ rice’, as use by brewers is the traditional industrial use.