Introduction. Phimosis is a condition where the foreskin is too tight to be pulled back over the head of the penis (glans). Phimosis is normal in babies and toddlers, but in older children it may be the result of a skin condition that has caused scarring. It isn't usually a problem unless it causes symptoms. Phimosis isn't usually a problem unless it causes symptoms such as redness, soreness or swelling. If your child's glans is sore and inflamed they may have balanitis (inflammation of the head of the penis). There may also be a thick discharge underneath the foreskin.
Swelling of the tip of the penis as the foreskin is retracted or pulled back. Pain. Inability to pull the foreskin back over the tip of the penis. Discoloration, either dark red or bluish color, of the tip of the penis. The symptoms of phimosis and paraphimosis may look like other problems or medical conditions. Always consult your child's doctor for a diagnosis
1 Phimosis is the inability to retract the foreskin behind the head (glans) of the penis. 2  Symptoms of phimosis may include: 3  difficulty or pain during urination, 4  painful erection, or. 5  paraphimosis. 6  Phimosis is usually divided into physiologic and pathologic phimosis. Phimosis facts. 1  Phimosis is the inability to retract the foreskin behind the head (glans) of the penis. 2  Symptoms of phimosis may include: 3  difficulty or pain during urination, 4  painful erection, or. 5  paraphimosis. 6  Phimosis is usually divided into physiologic and pathologic phimosis.
Another condition affecting the foreskin is called paraphimosis, in which repositioning of the foreskin to the unretracted position is not possible, and this limits or stops blood flow to the penis. Phimosis is not typically associated with serious complications unless urination is not possible, but paraphimosis is an emergency. The inability to reposition or unretract the foreskin to its proper position is potentially dangerous because it can deprive the penis of blood flow.
1 Symptoms of phimosis may include: 2  difficulty or pain during urination, 3  painful erection, or. 4  paraphimosis. 5  Phimosis is usually divided into physiologic and pathologic phimosis. Phimosis facts. 1  Phimosis is the inability to retract the foreskin behind the head (glans) of the penis. 2  Symptoms of phimosis may include: 3  difficulty or pain during urination, 4  painful erection, or. 5  paraphimosis. 6  Phimosis is usually divided into physiologic and pathologic phimosis.
When phimosis is a problem. Phimosis isn't usually a problem unless it causes symptoms such as redness, soreness or swelling. If your child's glans is sore and inflamed they may have balanitis (inflammation of the head of the penis). There may also be a thick discharge underneath the foreskin.
Phimosis (/fɪˈmoʊsɨs/ or /faɪˈmoʊsɨs/), from the Greek phimos (φῑμός [muzzle]), is a condition of the penis where the foreskin cannot be fully retracted over the glans penis. The term may also refer to clitoral phimosis in women, whereby the clitoral hood cannot be retracted, limiting exposure of the glans clitoridis. Signs and symptoms [edit]. At birth, the inner layer of the foreskin is sealed to the glans penis. This attachment forms early in fetal development and provide[s] a protective cocoon for the delicate developing glans.. The foreskin is usually non-retractable in infancy and early childhood, and can be as late as 18.
Phimosis is a painful condition that makes it difficult to retract the foreskin of the penis. It occurs in boys and men who have not undergone circumcision (removal of the foreskin covering the tip of the penis). Tissue damage can occur if the foreskin is forcibly retracted. Phimosis is not typically associated with serious complications unless urination is not possible, but paraphimosis is an emergency. The inability to reposition or unretract the foreskin to its proper position is potentially dangerous because it can deprive the penis of blood flow.