Myocardium is the medical term meaning heart muscle. Cardiac Muscle.   Cardiac muscle   Answer   Cardiac Muscle; there are only three types of muscles, cardiac ~ … heart, smooth ~ intestines, stomach, etc, and skeletal =~the ones you use on your arms or legs; muscles attached to bones. It's name, as a muscle of the body, is the myocardium. Cardiac (cardi = heart + ac = pertaining to) muscle refers the the specific type of muscle found in the heart.
Myocardium is the medical term meaning heart muscle. Cardiac Muscle.   Cardiac muscle   Answer   Cardiac Muscle; there are only three types of muscles, cardiac ~ … heart, smooth ~ intestines, stomach, etc, and skeletal =~the ones you use on your arms or legs; muscles attached to bones. Myorrhaphy is the surgical suturing of a muscle wound (my/o means  muscle and-rrhaphy means surgical suturing).
Cardiac is the medical term usually used when referring to the heart. When joined as a combining form with another suffix or word to form another term, cardiac bec … omes Cardio-. For example, Cardiovascular. Cardio- = heart and vascular = blood vessels. It's name, as a muscle of the body, is the myocardium. Cardiac (cardi = heart + ac = pertaining to) muscle refers the the specific type of muscle found in
Along with skeletal and cardiac muscle, smooth muscle is one of the three general types of musc … le tissue in the body. Smooth muscle generally forms the supporting tissue of blood vessels and hollow internal organs, such as the stomach, intestine, and bladder. Myorrhaphy is the surgical suturing of a muscle wound (my/o means  muscle and-rrhaphy means surgical suturing).
Myalgia is the medical term meaning muscle pain. Myalgia Pain in or associated with muscles is called Myalgia. Myalgia The medical term for muscle pain is myalgia. + 28 others found this useful. Myorrhaphy is the surgical suturing of a muscle wound (my/o means  muscle and-rrhaphy means surgical suturing).
Muscular dystrophy is a group of inherited diseases that are characterized by weakness and wasting away of muscle tissue, with or without the breakdown of nerve tissue. There are nine types of muscular dystrophy, with each type involving an eventual loss of strength, increasing disability, and possible deformity. 
Muscle disease Central core disease, glycogen storage disease type IIa–Pompe's disease, mitochondrial myopathies, muscular dystrophy, myotonic dystrophy, nemaline myopathy. 
Heart disease: Any disorder that affects the heart. Sometimes the term heart disease is ... Heart muscle: A type of muscle with unique features only found in the heart. The heart mus... Heart rate: The number of heartbeats per unit of time, usually per minute. The heart rate ... Coronary angiography: The most accurate method (the gold standard) for evaluating and de... Coronary arteries: The vessels that supply the heart muscle with blood rich in oxygen. The... Coronary artery disease: Impedance or blockage of one or more arteries that supply blood t...
Myopathy is a term used to describe muscle disease. The inflammatory myopathies are a group of diseases that involve chronic muscle inflammation, accompanied by muscle weakness. Another word for chronic inflammation of muscle tissue is myositis. The three main types of chronic, or persistent, inflammatory myopathy are polymyositis, dermatomyositis, and inclusion body myositis. The chronic inflammatory myopathies are idiopathic, meaning they have no known cause. They are thought to be autoimmune disorders, in which the body’s white blood cells (that normally fight disease) attack blood vessels, normal muscle fibers, and connective tissue in organs, bones, and joints.
Heart muscle: A type of muscle with unique features only found in the heart. The heart muscle, or cardiac muscle, is medically called the myocardium (myo- being the prefix denoting muscle). 