All the living things, or organisms, and nonliving things that interact in a particular area make up an ecosystem. Organisms live in a speciﬁc place within an ecosystem. An organism obtains food, water, shelter, and other things it needs to live, grow, and reproduce from its surroundings. Some organisms make their own food in a process called photosynthesis. Other living things depend on plants and algae for food. The place where an organism lives and that provides the things the organism needs is called its habitat. An organism interacts with both living and nonliving parts of its habitat. The living parts of an ecosystem are called biotic factors
ecosystem -- All the organisms in a particular region and the environment in which they live. The elements of an ecosystem interact with each other in some way, and so depend on each other either directly or indirectly. environment -- The place in which an organism lives, and the circumstances under which it lives. 
Biosphere = that part of the earth and its atmosphere in which life can exist composed of ecosystems. Ecosystems = composed of communities of organisms and their environment. Communities = populations of different species of organisms. Habitats = is the place where an organism lives and to which it is adapted. 
food producers-organisms such as plants and algae, whichthrough the process of photosynthesis create energy-rich food. food web-interconnected food chains in an ecosystem. habitat-the place in which an organism lives. interbreeding-breeding that occurs only with its species andthat produces fertile offspring. 
Report Abuse. A habitat is the place where a particular species lives and grows. It is essentially the environment—at least the physical environment—that influences and is utilized by a species population. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Habitat. A biome is the set of flora and fauna which live in a habitat and occupy a certain geography. Habitat (which is Latin for it inhabits) is the place where a particular species lives and grows. It is essentially the physical environment that influences and is utilized by a species population
A ll the living and nonliving things that interact in aparticular area make up an ecosystem. Organisms live in aspecific place within an ecosystem. An organism obtains food,water, shelter, and other things it needs to live, grow, andreproduce from its surroundings. The place where an organismlives and that provides the things the organism needs is calledits habitat. An organism interacts with both the living and nonlivingthings in its environment. The living parts of an ecosystem arecalled biotic factors. 
A place where an organism lives and ... 16. An organisms particular role or how it ... 17. Consumers that eat both plants and ... 18. a group of ecosystems with similar ... 19. Which land biome is extremely cold and ... Print. A place where an organism lives and that provides the organisms needs is called its.
A habitat is an ecological or environmental area that is inhabited by human, a particular species of animal, plant, or other type of organism. A place where a living thing lives is its habitat. It is a place where it can find food, shelter, protection and mates for reproduction. It is the natural environment in which an organism lives, or the physical environment that surrounds a species population. 
A habitat is the place where a particular species lives and grows. It is essentially the environment—at least the physical environment—that influences and is utilized by a species population. A biome is the set of flora and fauna which live in a habitat and occupy a certain geography. Habitat (which is Latin for it inhabits) is the place where a particular species lives and grows. It is essentially the physical environment 