(fŏs'fōlĭp`ĭd) , lipid lipids,a broad class of organic products found in living systems. Most are insoluble in water but soluble in nonpolar solvents. The definition excludes the mineral oils and other petroleum products obtained from fossil material...... Phospholipids that contain a glycerol backbone are called phosphoglycerides (or glycerophospholipids), which are the most abundant class of phospholipid found in nature.
Phospholipids make up an important class of lipids for the construction of cell membranes. The phospholipids are not true fats because they have one of the fatty acids replaced by a phosphate group. This sketch of a phospholipid molecule shows two fatty acids and a phosphate group attached to a glycerol backbone. Stearic acid is shown as the fatty acid, but there are many variations in the fatty acid
Both classes are present in the biological membrane. Phospholipids that contain a glycerol backbone are called phosphoglycerides (or glycerophospholipids), which are the most abundant class of phospholipid found in nature.
Your cells are surrounded by a very important type of lipid, called phospholipids. Phospholipids consist of a hydrophilic (or 'water loving') head and a hydrophobic (or 'water fearing') tail. Phospholipids like to line up and arrange themselves into two parallel layers, called a phospholipid bilayer. Phospholipids are a type of lipid-one of the four main classes of molecules that make up living things. Phospholipids serve a very important function by surrounding and protecting internal cell components.
Lipid bilayer is a universal component of all cell membranes. The structure is called a lipid bilayer because it composed of two layers of fatty acids organized in two sheets. The lipid bilayer is typically about five nanometers to ten nanometers thick and surrounds all cells providing the cell membrane structure.
Phospholipids are amphipathic in nature; that is, each molecule consists of a hydrophilic (water-loving) portion and a hydrophobic (water-hating) portion. Due to the amphipathic nature and insolubility in water, phospholipids are ideal compounds for forming the biological membrane. See Lipid. (fŏs'fōlĭp`ĭd) , lipid lipids,a broad class of organic products found in living systems. Most are insoluble in water but soluble in nonpolar solvents. The definition excludes the mineral oils and other petroleum products obtained from fossil material......
The phospholipids make up most of the cell membrane, the cell  membrane controls what goes in and out of cells and the  phospholipids helps with this because the 'heads' are … hydrophilic  and the 'tails' are hydrophobic. A cell membrane is composed of a double layer of phospholipids, more commonly referred to as a phospholipid bilayer, and each phospholipid itself is important to the structure … and function of the cell membrane.
Phospholipids are the prime building blocks for all known life forms and are important in cell structure because they form a double layer of protein and other substances const … itutes the membrane surrounding the cell. They are also able to spontaneously assemble into the most basic life giving structure (membranes). A cell membrane is composed of a double layer of phospholipids, more commonly referred to as a phospholipid bilayer, and each phospholipid itself is important to the structure … and function of the cell membrane.
Since a lipid molecule contains regions that are both polar and nonpolar, they are called amphipathic molecules. Figure %: Basic Lipid Structure. The most abundant class of lipid molecule found in cell membranes is the phospholipid. The phospholipid molecule's polar head group contains a phosphate group. 
Phospholipids are a class of lipids that are a major component of all cell membranes. They can form lipid bilayers because of their amphiphilic characteristic. The structure of the phospholipid molecule generally consists of two hydrophobic fatty acid tails and a hydrophilic head consisting of a phosphate group. The two components are joined together by a glycerol molecule. The phosphate groups can be modified with simple organic molecules such as choline.