Prince was born Prince Rogers Nelson on June 7, 1958, in Minneapolis, Minnesota. He later changed his name four times. Prince's early music career saw the release of Prince (1979), Dirty Mind (1980) and Controversy (1981)—all of which created controversy due to their fusion of religious and sexual themes. Prince is said to be a perfectionist who is highly protective of his music. He writes, composes and produces the majority of his music, and plays most of the instruments on his albums. Prince presents an award at The BRIT Awards February 19, 2014 in London, England.
Prince Roger Nelson (born June 7, 1958), known by his mononym Prince, is an American singer-songwriter, multi-instrumentalist, and actor, a major figure in popular music for over three decades. At one point in 1984, Prince simultaneously had the No. 1 album, single, and film in the US; it was the first time a singer had achieved this feat. Prince won the Academy Award for Best Original Song Score for Purple Rain, and the album is ranked 72nd Rolling Stone' s 500 Greatest Albums of All Time.
The Family is a band formed by Prince, and one of the first signed to his record label, Paisley Park Records. The band reformed as fDeluxe in 2009. The band's origins started with the disintegration of The Time in 1984. Lead singer Morris Day had left the band to pursue a solo career and guitarist Jesse Johnson became the de facto band leader. Prince suggested restructuring the band with new member Paul Peterson to head the group, but Johnson opposed.
Prince was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota, the son of Mattie Della (Shaw) and John Lewis Nelson. His parents were both African-American and his family ancestry is centered in Louisiana, with all four of his grandparents hailing from the state. At one point in 1984, Prince simultaneously had the No. 1 album, single, and film in the US; it was the first time a singer had achieved this feat. Prince won the Academy Award for Best Original Song Score for Purple Rain, and the album is ranked 72nd Rolling Stone' s 500 Greatest Albums of All Time.
Mini Bio (1). Prince Rogers Nelson was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota, to Mattie Della (Shaw), a jazz singer, and John L. Nelson, a lyricist and pianist. His parents were both from African-American families from the U.S. south. They separated during his youth, which lead him to move back and forth. 
Early Life. Famed singer, songwriter and instrumentalist Prince was born Prince Rogers Nelson on June 7, 1958, in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Named after the Prince Roger Trio, a jazz band his father performed with as a pianist, Prince was signed to Warner Brother Records as a teenager. Prince is said to be a perfectionist who is highly protective of his music. He writes, composes and produces the majority of his music, and plays most of the instruments on his albums. Prince presents an award at The BRIT Awards February 19, 2014 in London, England.
Prince is renowned as an innovator and is widely known for his eclectic work, flamboyant stage presence, and wide vocal range. He is widely regarded as the pioneer of Minneapolis sound. His music combines rock, R&B, soul, funk, hip hop, disco, psychedelia, jazz, and pop. At one point in 1984, Prince simultaneously had the No. 1 album, single, and film in the US; it was the first time a singer had achieved this feat. Prince won the Academy Award for Best Original Song Score for Purple Rain, and the album is ranked 72nd Rolling Stone' s 500 Greatest Albums of All Time.
Prince's father was a pianist and songwriter and his mother was a jazz singer. Prince was named after his father, whose stage name was Prince Rogers, and who performed with a jazz group called the Prince Rogers Trio. At one point in 1984, Prince simultaneously had the No. 1 album, single, and film in the US; it was the first time a singer had achieved this feat. Prince won the Academy Award for Best Original Song Score for Purple Rain, and the album is ranked 72nd Rolling Stone' s 500 Greatest Albums of All Time.
Prince was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota, to John L. Nelson and Matti Shaw. His father was a songwriter and his mother was a jazz singer. As a child, Prince was nicknamed Skippy, and he suffered from epilepsy. He had a troubled childhood after his parents separated and he went to live with the family of Andre Cymone, who would later become his bass player. Personal Life: Prince has been romantically linked with a number of high-profile celebrities, including Carmen Electra, Sheena Easton, Stevie Nicks and Kim Basinger. Prince married his backing singer Mayte Garcia in 1996.