Dahl, which means valley in the North Germanic languages (tal in German, dale in northern British English), is common in Germany, Norway, Denmark, Sweden and the Faroe Islands. The origin of the German forms Dahl and Dahle may have been in medieval Westphalia. In Germany about 11 places are called Dahl. There are several variations as it was common to add a suffix to Dahl in order to denote the name bearer's original locale or occupation. You also find several variations of-dahl used with prefixes (Heyerdahl, Heimendahl...). The oldest record of the name appears in Austria.
You can find out where the majority of the Stahl families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. You can find out when most of the Stahl families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination. from the Social Security Death Index (SSDI).
Please be aware that the name Tal is only used for girls and it is rude to call a boy Tal. -- talrosie 3/23/2008. I don't think Tal is a girls' name. Perhaps in English-speaking countries it is, but in Israel (and the origin is Hebrew), it's an absolutely neutral name, given to boys and girls alike. In general, I don't really like this name. Its meaning is quite dull and it's too short. Actually I didn't think I'd find it here because I thought it's used only in Israel. -- Evelyn--- 8/1/2008. It seems that Israel is the only place where names can be kept completely neutral. As an Israeli I know at least two boys named Tal and at least two girls named Tal. And it is NOT rude to name your son Tal. It's perfectly acceptable.
Tal /tal/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name (also used as girls' name Tal) is pronounced tal. It is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Tal is rain; dew. Tal is a rare first name for males but a very popular surname for both adults and children (#45482 out of 150436, Top 30%).
Tahl /tahl/ [1 syll.] as a name for boys is of Hebrew origin, and the name Tahl means rain; dew. Tahl is an alternate spelling of Tal (Hebrew). Tahl is an equivalently uncommon last name too for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Tahl for boys. Tahl has not been ranked in the Top 1000 thus far.
Tal has 2 variants: Tahl and Talor. Tal is a rare first name for males but a very popular surname for both adults and children (#45482 out of 150436, Top 30%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Tal for boys. Tal has not been recorded in the list so fa
According to the Gospel of Matthew Immanuel refers to Jesus Christ. Immanuel (Hebrew עִמָּנוּאֵל meaning, God is with us; also romanized Emmanuel, Imanu'el) is a Hebrew name which appears in chapters 7 and 8 of the Book of Isaiah as part of a prophecy during the life of Jeshurun. He is wound into the book, among descriptions of historical events and the future. Isaiah 7–8 mentions three children with symbolic names: Shear-jashub, meaning a remnant shall return; Immanuel, God is with us; and Maher-shalal-hash-baz, the spoil speeds, the prey hastens. Isaiah 8:18 informs the reader that Isaiah and his children are signs (Here am I, and the children the Lord has given me.
In Judaism the name עמנואל (Immanuel) is not applied to the messiah, as is done in parts of Christianity. The Isaiah passage and the name Emmanuel are cited in the Gospel of Matthew and applied to the virgin conception and birth of Jesus as the Messiah. Isaiah 7–8 mentions three children with symbolic names: Shear-jashub, meaning a remnant shall return; Immanuel, God is with us; and Maher-shalal-hash-baz, the spoil speeds, the prey hastens. Isaiah 8:18 informs the reader that Isaiah and his children are signs (Here am I, and the children the Lord has given me.
[ syll. tah (l), ta-hl ] The baby boy name Tahl is pronounced as T AA-L †. The origin of Tahl is the Hebrew language. Tahl is a variant of the name Tal (English and Hebrew). Tahl is not commonly used as a baby boy name. It is not listed within the top 1000. 