List of Hindu baby names, Hindu baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Hindu names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Hindu baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Sahasra in Hindu origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame details. Foetus responds. Absolutely, everyone knows that the foetus present inside the womb of the mother can hear. But something which you did not know is that foetus responds to sound properly i.e. in a similar manner as they respond to any kind of internal stimulation.
In Sanskrit, sahasra means a thousand and nāma (nominative, the stem is nāman-) means name. The compound is of the Bahuvrihi type and may be translated as having a thousand names. In modern Hindi pronunciation, nāma is pronounced [na:m]. It is also pronounced sahasranāmam in South India. The Vishnusahasranama (Sanskrit Viṣṇusahasranāma), a tatpurusa compound translating literally to the thousand names of Vishnu) is a list of 1,000 names (sahasranama) of Vishnu, one of the main forms of God in Hinduism and the personal supreme God for Vaishnavas (followers of Vishnu).
Hindu-india word which means, Sahasra means Thousend.. Sanskrit word which means, strength.. Sanskrit word which means, a new beginning, a thousand.. Someone also suggested the name is an Unknown word which means, the meaning for this name is The new begining. Someone also suggested the name is an Indian word which means, Sahasra comes from the Indian word which means, Goddess Laxmi.. Sanskrit word which means, In number system thousand.. Sanskrit word which means, Sahasra means Infinity, unique, thousand.. Sanskrit word which means, 1000(thousand)..
The baby boy or baby girl name Sahasra comes from the Unknown word which means, The New Beginning.. Sanskrit word which means, Thousand.. Sanskrit word which means, Thousand.. Sanskrit word which means, thousand(1000).. Someone also suggested the name is an Indian word which means, Sahasra comes from the Indian word which means, Goddess Laxmi.. Sanskrit word which means, In number system thousand.. Sanskrit word which means, Sahasra means Infinity, unique, thousand.. Sanskrit word which means, 1000(thousand)..
Meaning of Indian name: Sahasra. Meaning of the name Sahasra is 'A new beginning'. Sahasra is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for females. The name number for Sahasra is '4'. Click here to get the numerological analysis for the name 'Sahasra'.
I reproduce in the following pages the meaning of each name; the entire graphics were taken from the website: http://www.stephen-knapp.com/sri_vishnu_sahasranam_translations.htm and for the reader's convenience split up into 9 pages, so that the pages load quickly. Indeed the expression NaMa is made up of Na for Naramandala and Ma for manas, our Mind. NaMa, the chanting of which helps to unite our nervous system and Mind. The main body of Sri Vishnu Sahasranama consists of 107 stanzas which contain the one thousand names of Sri Maha Vishnu.
Meaning of name Sahasra, Origin of name Sahasra, Personality of name Sahasra, Gallery of Cute Indian Baby Pictures of Sahasra and adorable Baby Photos of Sahasra. All this and lots more... If you believe in Numerology, click to see if the name Sahasra is lucky! 
Name Sahasra generally means New beginning, is of Indian origin, Name Sahasra is a Feminine (or Girl) name. Person with name Sahasra are mainly Hindu by religion. Name Sahasra belongs to rashi Kumbh (Aquarius) with dominant planet Saturn (Shani) and Nakshatra (stars) Sathabisham. 