Definition: Those aspects or characteristics which identify a culture. not for microbial or tissue cultures. See Also Cross-Cultural Comparison. Other names Cultural Characteristic; Characteristics, Cultural; Characteristic, Cultural. 
Culture is the Centre of a society and without culture no society can even exist. It is the main difference between human beings and animals. It is a heritage transmitted from one generation to another. It includes all the ways and behaviors is social life. Man is born in the environment of culture, in which he seeks his way of behaving and acting in a given society. Culture is social. It is not an individual phenomena but it is the product of society. It develops in the society through social interaction. It is shared by the man of society No man can acquire it without the association of others.
Answers. Best Answer: A cultural characteristic, or trait, is an identifiable part of a particular culture. For example, a style of mask used by the Yoruba of Nigeria is considered a cultural characteristic. The pyramids of Egypt are characteristic of ancient Egyptian culture. 
Krober define it as “The spread of one cultural elements both material and non-material to the other is called cultural diffusion.”. In simple words “The process by which cultural traits of one society directly or indirectly spread to the other society is called cultural diffusion. Characteristics of Cultural Diffusion. Following are the characteristics of cultural diffusion. 1  Selective Process. 2  It is a selective process and the traits of one culture are adopted by other on selection. 3  There is compulsion to adopt the traits of others. 4  Rapid Material D
The definition of culture is a way of life society creates to satisfy its basic needs. 2 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  8 Exciting Cultural Events in Miami Miami, Florida's diverse culture makes it a wonderful U.S. travel destination for those who want to celebrate their heritage or cultural diversity. 1 The Definition of Cultural Diversity The definition of cultural diversity can vary. 2  It is the opposite of monoculture and similar to multiculturalism, but not exactly the same. 3  Cultural diversity is commonly vie….
Culture is the characteristics and knowledge of a particular group of people, defined by everything from language, religion, cuisine, social habits, music and arts. The word culture derives from a French term, which in turn derives from the Latin colere, which means to tend to the earth and grow, or cultivation and nurture.
Defining Characteristics of Culture Culture, basically defined, consists of the various groups to which a person belongs. It is not inherited or scientific. It is a social concept, unique to the human race. In order to better understand the concept of culture, one can break it down into several defining characteristics. Though culture has many characteristics, let us focus on three main ideas: that culture is dynamic, that it is multifaceted, and that culture is learned.
Cultural characteristics are the uniform aspects of a culture that help to identify the persons of that culture. These aspects can be race, ethnicity, language, and values. 1 The Definition of Cultural Diversity The definition of cultural diversity can vary. 2  It is the opposite of monoculture and similar to multiculturalism, but not exactly the same. 3  Cultural diversity is commonly vie….