A: Normally, you can resume normal use of your driveway after 24 to 48 hours. If unsure, you can rub or blot the surface with an old towel. If the towel appears black or dirty, wait additional time before walking or driving on the driveway. After 6 months use the water bead test to determine if your driveway is ready to be sealed: spray water across your driveway; if it forms beads, it is not fully cured and not ready to be sealed yet, so you’ll have to wait a bit longer.
In full sun, you can walk on it in a few hours but you can not drive on it for 24 hours. In the spring and fall, 48 hours is recommended. The driveway surface dries in 24 hours but takes 30 days to cure. It is suggested that you avoid harsh chemicals at all times.
3.3.1 New Asphalt: You should sealcoat your asphalt as soon as it begins to turn grey or 90 days after installation. The new pavement should be allowed to cure a minimum of 90 days at 70 + ° F. The length of time for curing of an asphalt pavement will vary according to the mixes used and the compaction of the asphalt. 
If you prefer for an additional cost we will pre-treat the oil stains either with a degreaser or special oil spot primer. During the summer months of May through August we recommend staying off the driveway with vehicles for 48 hours. After September 1st allow 72 hours or more depending on the temperature. Driveway sealer will dry like paint from the top down. It may feel dry on the surface but may still be wet underneath. You can walk on the driveway as soon as it feels dry to the touch, usually just a few hours in sunny areas. Allow additional time for shady areas at all time
Wait five hours after the sealcoat is dry to the touch on a sunny day, then lower a shoe-covered foot onto the edge of the driveway. Remove your foot immediately if the sealcoat feels spongy or tacky. Step fully onto the driveway if your first foot does not affect the sealcoat. 1 Application of sealcoat in hot and dry weather will speed drying time over periods when it has been applied in damp and cool weather. 2  In all cases, rather than testing the sealcoat for early access to foot traffic, you can just wait the 24 to 48 hours and open the driveway to all traffic.
Try again after a 2 to 3 hours have passed if the driveway is still tacky initially. Some sealcoats take 12 hours or more to dry enough to allow foot traffic. Allow the sealcoat to dry at least 24 hours before driving or parking a vehicle on it. 1 Application of sealcoat in hot and dry weather will speed drying time over periods when it has been applied in damp and cool weather. 2  In all cases, rather than testing the sealcoat for early access to foot traffic, you can just wait the 24 to 48 hours and open the driveway to all traffic.
Sealing an Asphalt Driveway. An asphalt driveway can take quite a beating from the elements. Before your driveway is too far gone, take some time to fill the cracks and add a coat of asphalt sealer. After watching this video, you’ll see how easy it is to do it yourself and ensure the long life of your asphalt driveway.
For a smooth, previously sealed driveway: 400-500 sq. ft. per 5 gallon pail, per coat. For example, if your driveway is 10 ft wide x 60 ft long = 600 sq ft. If the driveway is in rough condition you would need 2 pails for the first coat and 1 pail for the second coat: FOR A TOTAL OF 3 PAILS. Allow it to cure at least 24 hours prior to car traffic (you can walk on it after a couple of hours on a nice day). Please allow overnight to dry/cure prior to applying a 2nd coat. (Note: For the warranty to be valid a 2nd coat is required on some of our 5 gallon products – see package).
A: Asphalt thickness is engineered. Asphalt is generally 2-3 thick, however it can be as thick as 4+ depending on what kind of stresses you will put on the pavement. Pavement that is 3+ or thicker should be installed in multiple lifts/layers.
After you apply asphalt driveway sealer, you need to stay off of it until it dries so that it will absorb into the asphalt. The amount of time that it takes for the sealer to dry will vary from one brand to the next. In generally, sealer will take anywhere from 3 to 5 hours to dry. If you need it to dry faster, you could set up some large fans to blow on the driveway. The amount of sunlight that is on the asphalt will also have an effect on how long it takes to dry. 