See also: commodity. The word commodification, which describes assignment of economic value to something not previously considered in economic terms, is sometimes also used to describe the transformation of the market for a unique, branded product into a market based on undifferentiated products. Human beings can be considered subject to commodification in contexts such as genetic engineering, social engineering, cloning, eugenics, social Darwinism, Fascism, mass marketing and employment. An extreme case of commodification is slavery, where human beings themselves become a commodity to be sold and bought.
Commodification is the transformation of goods and services, as well as ideas or other entities that normally may not be considered goods, into a commodity. The earliest use of the word commodification in English attested in the Oxford English Dictionary dates from 1975. Use of the concept of commodification became common with the rise of critical discourse analysis in semiotics.
Commodification. Commodification is the transformation of goods and services, as well as ideas or other entities that normally may not be considered goods, into a commodity. The Marxist understanding of commodity is distinct from the meaning of commodity in mainstream business theory. The earliest use of the word commodification in English attested in the Oxford English Dictionary dates from 1975. Use of the concept of commodification became common with the rise of critical discourse analysis in semiotics.
Marx's analysis of the commodity is intended to help solve the problem of what establishes the economic value of goods, using the labor theory of value. This problem was extensively debated by Adam Smith, David Ricardo and Karl Rodbertus-Jagetzow among others. Marx held that the price and the value of a commodity were not synonymous. Price of any commodity would vary according to the imbalance of supply to demand at any one period of time. The value of the same commodity, would be consistent and would reflect the amount of labour value used to produce that commodity.
(noun) “[T]he changing of something not generally thought of as a commodity into something that can be bought and sold in a marketplace” (OpenStax College 2012). Audio Pronunciation: (com·mod·i·fi·ca·tion). Download Audio Pronunciation: commodification.mp3. 
© A Dictionary of Sociology 1998, originally published by Oxford University Press 1998. commodification, commoditization Within Marxist theory this refers to the production of commodities for exchange (via the market) as opposed to direct use by the producer. It signals the conversion of use-values into exchange-values and heralds a change in production relations. 
Commodification is the transformation of goods and services, as well as ideas or other entities that normally may not be considered goods, into a commodity (in the Marxist sense of the word). The Marxist understanding of commodity is distinct from the meaning of commodity in mainstream business theory. Human beings can be considered subject to commodification in contexts such as genetic engineering, social engineering, cloning, eugenics, social Darwinism, Fascism, mass marketing and employment. An extreme case of commodification is slavery, where human beings themselves become a commodity to be sold and bought.
In terms of tourism, commodification refers to using a place's culture and the cultural artifacts to make a large enough profit to support part of the area's economy (Fiaux).In today's tourism, commodification is prevalent everywhere one looks. Whether the tourist eats at McDonald's in China or buys souvenirs in India, they are participating in commodification. The problem with commodification is that it alters the tourists' abilities to have an authentic experience and introduces a false culture into the indigenous one.
Commodification (1975, origins Marxist political theory) is used to describe the process by which something which does not have an economic value is assigned a value and hence how market values can replace other social values. Human beings can be considered subject to commodification in contexts such as genetic engineering, social engineering, cloning, eugenics, social Darwinism, Fascism, mass marketing and employment. An extreme case of commodification is slavery, where human beings themselves become a commodity to be sold and bought.