Researchers today announced the discovery of the earliest known ancestor of the group of mammals that give birth to live young. The finding is based on a well-preserved fossil of a tiny, hairy 125-million-year-old shrewlike species that scurried about in bushes and the low branches of trees. It is an early, primitive representative of the lineage that eventually led to placental mammals,  said Weil. Properly, it is called a eutherian mammala mammal that is more closely related to living placentals than to living marsupials.. Fossil evidence dates the earliest mammals to 220 million years ago.
We found the earliest ancestor, perhaps a great uncle or aunt, or perhaps a great grandparentalbeit 125 million years removedto all placental mammals,  said Zhe-Xi Luo, a paleontologist at the Carnegie Museum of Natural History in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. It is an early, primitive representative of the lineage that eventually led to placental mammals,  said Weil. Properly, it is called a eutherian mammala mammal that is more closely related to living placentals than to living marsupials.. Fossil evidence dates the earliest mammals to 220 million years ago.
Named the Jurassic mother from China (Juramaia sinensis), the newfound fossil species is the earliest known ancestor of placental mammals—animals, such as humans, that give birth to relatively mature, live young—according to a new study. (See: Earliest Known Ancestor of Placental Mammals Discovered.) Both lineages started out small and got lucky breaks when they moved up into the forest canopy, out of reach of most dinosaurs and other mammals that stalked the ground, Luo said.
The first clear evidence of hair or fur is in fossils of Castorocauda, from 164M years ago in the mid-Jurassic. As both extant mammals and Castorocauda have a double coat of hair, with both guard hairs and an undercoat, it may be assumed that their last common ancestor did as well. The crown group mammals, sometimes called 'true mammals', are the extant mammals and their relatives back to their last common ancestor. Since this group has living members, DNA analysis can be applied in an attempt to explain the evolution of features that do not appear in fossils.
An artist's rendering of the little mammal in question. Credit: Carl Buell. Man's common ancestor with the rest of the mammal tribe may have been a small rat-like insectivore with a really long tail. Say hello to one of your oldest relatives, named Protungulatum donnae. Creationists love to ramble on about how humans couldn't have evolved from monkeys, which is true. 
Most mammals today are placentals. Mammalian diversity was not so simple 125 million years ago, said Anne Weil, a research associate in the department of biological anthropology and anatomy at Duke University in Durham, North Carolina. First of all, Eomaia is not a placental mammal. It is an early, primitive representative of the lineage that eventually led to placental mammals,  said Weil. Properly, it is called a eutherian mammala mammal that is more closely related to living placentals than to living marsupials.. Fossil evidence dates the earliest mammals to 220 million years ago.
Maintained by pioweb@ucsc.edu. The common ancestor of placental mammals probably looked like Eomaia scansoria, the earliest known placental mammal, shown here in an artist's reconstruction based on a 125-million-year-old fossil skeleton found in China in 2002. 
Comments. A six year study analyzed genomic information and fossil evidence to construct a mammalian family tree, and discovered our earliest common mammal ancestor lived soon after the extinction of the dinosaurs 66 million years ago. The oldest fossil they identified as being a modern placental lived 200,000 to 400,000 years after the impact. Their analysis showed that rapid evolution followed, producing the first members of the major placental mammal lineages, such as primates and rodents, 2 to 3 million years later.
Didelphodon A Cretaceous ancestor of the modern opossum. Docodon Perhaps not a true mammal, but a mammal-like reptile.. Eomaia This early mammal is known from a single, spectacular fossil. Eozostrodon This Triassic critter may (or may not) have been the first true mammal. Sinodelphys One of the earliest marsupials yet discovered. Steropodon This platypus ancestor lived 15 million years after Teinolophos. Teinolophos An early ancestor of the modern platypus. Triconodon A common mammal of the late Jurassic.