Manganese-The primary ores are oxides/hydroxides of manganese which include minerals such as hausmannite, pyrolusite, braunite, manganite, etc. and the carbonate, rhodochrosite. A large potential source is the deep sea manganese nodules. Germanium-A byproduct of zinc ore processing. Also a deposit in China is associated with coal. Gold-The primary mineral of gold is the native metal and electrum (a gold-silver alloy). Some tellurides are also important ore minerals such as calaverite, sylvanite, and petzite. Hafnium-Primary ore mineral is zircon. Indium-Primarily is a byproduct of zinc processing
Kutnohorite. - Intermediary mineral in a series between Rhodochrosite and Aragonite. While often considered a calcium rich variety of Rhodochrosite, Kutnahorite is recognized by the IMA as a distinct mineral species. Rosinca. - Banded, stalactitic variety of Rhodochrosite found in Catamarca, Argentina.
Rhodochrosite is a manganese carbonate mineral with chemical composition MnCO3. In its (rare) pure form, it is typically a rose-red color, but impure specimens can be shades of pink to pale brown. It streaks white, and its Mohs hardness varies between 3.5 and 4. Its specific gravity is between 3.5 and 3.7. Calcium, (as well as magnesium and zinc, to a limited extent) frequently substitutes for manganese in the structure, leading to lighter shades of red and pink, depending on the degree of substitution. It is for this reason that the most common color encountered is pink.
The mineral rhodochrosite [manganese (II) carbonate, MnCO2] is a commercially important source of manganese. Write a half reaction for the oxidation of the manganese in MnCO3 to MnO2 in neutral groundwater where the principal carbonate species is HCO3-. Add H2O, H+, and electrons as needed to balance the half reaction. 
1 Pyrite was once used as the main source of sulfur, but is now only a minor source for sulfur and iron. 2  Pyrite from some localities is auriferous, and therefore is used as an ore of gold. 3  Pellets of pressed pyrite dust have been used to recover iron, gold, copper, cobalt, nickel, etc. Uses: 1  Pyrite was once used as the main source of sulfur, but is now only a minor source for sulfur and iron. 2  Pellets of pressed pyrite dust have been used to recover iron, gold, copper, cobalt, nickel, etc. 3  Pyrite was polished by Native Americans in early times and used as mirrors.
Commercially significant halide minerals [edit]. Two commercially important halide minerals are halite and fluorite. The former is a major source of sodium chloride, in parallel with sodium chloride extracted from sea water or brine wells. The halide mineral class include those minerals with a dominant halide anion (F − , Cl − , Br − and I −). Complex halide minerals may also have polyatomic anions in addition to or that include halides.
Uses: 1  Pyrite was once used as the main source of sulfur, but is now only a minor source for sulfur and iron. 2  Pyrite from some localities is auriferous, and therefore is used as an ore of gold. 3  Pellets of pressed pyrite dust have been used to recover iron, gold, copper, cobalt, nickel, etc. Uses: 1  Pyrite was once used as the main source of sulfur, but is now only a minor source for sulfur and iron. 2  Pellets of pressed pyrite dust have been used to recover iron, gold, copper, cobalt, nickel, etc. 3  Pyrite was polished by Native Americans in early times and used as mirrors.
Rhodochrosite forms a complete solid solution series with iron carbonate (siderite). Calcium, (as well as magnesium and zinc, to a limited extent) frequently substitutes for manganese in the structure, leading to lighter shades of red and pink, depending on the degree of substitution. It is for this reason that the most common color encountered is pink.