Khat, he said, is sometimes hard to find and sometimes you can get it.. According to Benson, the Seattle street price for khat is about $700 per kilo (2.2 pounds). In East Africa, it can be bought for about $1 per kilo. That huge markup generates huge profits, he said. More than 1,000 pounds of khat has been seized in the course of the investigation in the Seattle area. Benson said the local cell -- believed to be led by Mahamoud Omar Jama, 36, of Kent -- moved about a ton of khat a month. Asked how much money was involved, Benson said: Millions..
There's about 5,000 numbers, said a customer at a stall selling khat from supplier 725. Customers typically spend between $6 and $10 for a day's worth of khat. This amounts to more than $1m spent on khat daily, Daud said. Business is good, said Zahre Aidid, a so-called khat mama of 22 years who runs a stall beside a dentist's office in central Hargeisa.
It is estimated that up to 90% of adult males chew khat three to four hours daily in Yemen. The number for females may be as high as 50% or even higher as young women take up the habit; a recent study for the World Bank estimated that 73% of women in Yemen chew the khat leaf more or less frequently. Nearly 60% of the land cultivated for cash crops is devoted to khat growing. And khat doesn’t just push out other more desirable crops, it also sucks in water. According to Qahtan Al-Asbahi between 27–30% of Yemen’s ground water goes into khat irrigation.
Catha edulis (khat, qat) is a flowering plant native to the Horn of Africa and the Arabian Peninsula. Among communities from these areas, khat chewing has a history as a social custom dating back thousands of years. Long-term use can precipitate: negative impact on liver function, permanent tooth darkening (of a greenish tinge), susceptibility to ulcers, and diminished sex drive. It is unclear if the consumption of khat directly affects the mental health of the user or not.
In 2014, khat sales generated 20 percent of the $152m budget. But despite this windfall, plenty of critics highlight the disrupting influence khat has on family life-from financial waste to domestic violence-and on the society at large. Customers typically spend between $6 and $10 for a day's worth of khat. This amounts to more than $1m spent on khat daily, Daud said. Business is good, said Zahre Aidid, a so-called khat mama of 22 years who runs a stall beside a dentist's office in central Hargeisa.
How much is available in the United States? The availability of khat in the United States has been increasing since 1995. According to the Federal-wide Drug Seizure System (FDSS), law enforcement seizures of khat increased from 14 metric tons in 1995 to over 37 metric tons in 2001. During the first six months of 2002, nearly 30 metric tons of khat was seized.
1 Khat, while illegal in the United States, is legal in much of Europe, East Africa, and the Arabian Peninsula. 2  Individuals of East African and Middle Eastern descent are mot often responsible for the importation, distribution, possession, and use of Khat in the United States. 
Khat, to include all parts of the plant presently classified botanically as catha edulis, whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; any extract from any part of such plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant, its seed or extracts. Long-term use can precipitate: negative impact on liver function, permanent tooth darkening (of a greenish tinge), susceptibility to ulcers, and diminished sex drive. It is unclear if the consumption of khat directly affects the mental health of the user or not.
How much does it cost to manufacture? Khat is purchased from farmers in the horn of Africa region for about $1 per kilogram. Warlords operating in this area use their planes to ship the khat to countries in Europe, where khat is still legal. The khat is sold to middlemen for $200/kg, a profit of $199 per kilogram. The availability of khat in the United States has been increasing since 1995. According to the Federal-wide Drug Seizure System (FDSS), law enforcement seizures of khat increased from 14 metric tons in 1995 to over 37 metric tons in 2001. During the first six months of 2002, nearly 30 metric tons of khat was seized.
How much does Khat sell for in the United States? Khat generally sells for $300-$600 per kilogram or $30 to $60 per bundle (which is 40 leafed twigs measuring 12-15 inches in length). The availability of khat in the United States has been increasing since 1995. According to the Federal-wide Drug Seizure System (FDSS), law enforcement seizures of khat increased from 14 metric tons in 1995 to over 37 metric tons in 2001. During the first six months of 2002, nearly 30 metric tons of khat was seized.