Finally! All the information you need for the 2016 Health Occupations Aptitude Exam (HOAE) organized in a single study guide. HOAE STUDY NOTES provides full, in-depth coverage of the subjects included on the HOAE. Prior to taking the test, I studied extensively using your book. Thanks to your study guide, I scored well on the test. I found out today that I have made it to the final interview. I'm so excited to be able to have this chance to get into the program. I feel that HOAE Study Notes were key in my success on the test. I have felt for a long time that being a nurse would be the right move for me, and now I'm finally taking steps to make that happen. Once again, thank you so much for your study guide!
A. HOAE results will be sent by email within two weeks of writing the test to applicants who have applied to Conestoga's Practical Nursing program and who have written the HOAE at Conestoga. We are unable to provide HOAE results to students who have not applied to Conestoga but who wrote the HOAE here. The HOAE is a web-based assessment that is administered through a computer. You will not be permitted to use a calculator, dictionary, or any other aids. Sample questions for the HOAE can be found at www.psbtests.com/web/guest/test-resources.
The total time to complete the HOAE is 2.5 hours. The HOAE is a web-based assessment that is administered through a computer. You will not be permitted to use a calculator, dictionary, or any other aids. Sample questions for the HOAE can be found at www.psbtests.com/web/guest/test-resources.
Sample Questions for the PSB Health Occupations Aptitude Examination Academic Aptitude Directions: Academic Aptitude measures how well you think and learn. The following samples demonstrate the types of questions you will be expected to answer in this part of the exam. Sample A. a. Bad b. What is the cost of a five minute call? a. $1.20 b. $1.12 c. $0.96 d. $0.76 e. $0.63 9. is to as is to? a. b. c. d. e. Spelling Directions: Spelling measures how well you can spell and what you know about the various rules of grammar as they are reflected in the spelling of certain words.
1 For college classes, you should base the hours you study per class on how difficult the class is and how many credit hours the class is worth. 2  For example, if you have a 3 hour physics class that is really hard, you want to study 9 hours a week (3 hrs x 3 for hard difficulty). Get enough sleep. Make enough time in your schedule to get enough sleep. Get a good night's sleep every night and you'll be making the best of your study time. This is important as you lead up to the test, and especially important right before you take the test.
Each sub-test of the HOAE has a specific time limit and number of questions: 1  Academic aptitude - 40 minutes; 75 questions. 2  Spelling - 15 minutes; 45 questions. 3  Reading comprehension - 35 minutes; 35 questions. The HOAE is a web-based assessment that is administered through a computer. You will not be permitted to use a calculator, dictionary, or any other aids. Sample questions for the HOAE can be found at www.psbtests.com/web/guest/test-resources.
A. We strongly recommend that you complete your HOAE test at Conestoga College. However, if you are more than 200 km from Conestoga College's Doon Campus, you can request off-site testing. The HOAE is a web-based assessment that is administered through a computer. You will not be permitted to use a calculator, dictionary, or any other aids. Sample questions for the HOAE can be found at www.psbtests.com/web/guest/test-resources.
Jul 26, '12 by tissy2012. I Just finished the HOAE test at Mohawk on July 19th. Ive already received my test scores back, and seeing what 'starfish' has, I'm now quite concerned. I have a 90% average in all my courses, and I took the pre-health program at Mohawk. In my opinion the HOAE is unfair. I Just finished the HOAE test at Mohawk on July 19th. Ive already received my test scores back, and seeing what 'starfish' has, I'm now quite concerned. I have a 90% average in all my courses, and I took the pre-health program at Mohawk