The Anglo-Saxons were invited by the British to settle in England in return for protecting the Britons from raids and pirates. The British were raided by people from the north, the Picts. Groups of Saxon pirates also raided the south coast and probably also attacked ships and boats around the British coast. 
The Anglo-Saxon period includes the creation of an English nation, with many of the aspects that survive today including regional government of shires and hundreds; the re-establishment of Christianity; a flowering in literature and language; and the establishment of charters and law. Use of the term Anglo-Saxon assumes that the words Angles, Saxons or Anglo-Saxon have the same meaning in all the sources.
The Anglo-Saxons were a people who inhabited Great Britain from the 5th century. They included people from Germanic tribes who migrated to the island from continental Europe, and their descendants; as well as indigenous British groups who adopted some aspects of Anglo-Saxon culture and language. Use of the term Anglo-Saxon assumes that the words Angles, Saxons or Anglo-Saxon have the same meaning in all the sources.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Bennett Hammond. Confidence votes 19.2K. The Anglo-Saxon period begins in the fifth Century A.D., when the Angles, a Germanic tribe from what is now Denmark, came to Britain, which they re-named Engla-lond or Land of the Angles.. The Saxons began coming at about the same time. The period is generally considered to be over with the Norman Conquest of 1066. 
The Anglo-Saxons also brought their own religious beliefs, but the arrival of Saint Augustine in 597 converted most of the country to Christianity. The Anglo-Saxon period lasted for 600 years, from 410 to 1066, and in that time Britain's political landscape underwent many changes. The Anglo-Saxon period stretched over 600 years, from 410 to 1066... The Anglo-Saxon period stretched over 600 years, from 410 to 1066... The early settlers kept to small tribal groups, forming kingdoms and sub-kingdoms.
The term Anglo-Saxon is also popularly used for the language, in scholarly use more usually called Old English, that was spoken and written by the Anglo-Saxons in England and eastern Scotland between at least the mid-5th century and the mid-12th century. Use of the term Anglo-Saxon assumes that the words Angles, Saxons or Anglo-Saxon have the same meaning in all the sources.
Some Anglo-Saxons came to Britain to fight, but others came peacefully, to find land to farm. The Anglo-Saxons knew Britain was a rich land. After the Roman soldiers left in AD410, Britain no longer had a strong army to defend it. There were battles between Anglo-Saxons and Britons. In AD491, for instance, a fight for the Roman fort at Pevensey in Sussex was won by the Anglo-Saxons, who killed all the Britons in the fort.
One group of Anglo-Saxon invaders were called the Haestingas. They gave their name to the seaside town of Hastings. Stories about King Arthur crop up all over Britain-in Wales, Cornwall, in the west of England and as far north as Scotland. Some people think Arthur is buried at Glastonbury, in Somerset. After the Roman soldiers left in AD410, Britain no longer had a strong army to defend it. There were battles between Anglo-Saxons and Britons. In AD491, for instance, a fight for the Roman fort at Pevensey in Sussex was won by the Anglo-Saxons, who killed all the Britons in the fort.
For Anglo-Saxon culture and society, see Anglo-Saxons. In the history of Great Britain, Anglo-Saxon England refers to the historical land roughly corresponding to present-day England, as it existed from the 5th to the 11th century, but not including Devon and Cornwall until the 9th century. The arrival of the Anglo-Saxons into Britain can be seen in the context of a general movement of Germanic peoples around Europe between the years 300 and 700, known as the Migration period (also called the Barbarian Invasions or Voelkerwanderung). völkerwanderung