Tamarind is a tree. Its partially dried fruit is used to make medicine. People take tamarind for constipation, liver and gallbladder problems, and stomach disorders. It is also used to treat colds and fever. Women sometimes use tamarind to treat pregnancy-related nausea. It is given to children to treat intestinal worms.
Tamarind is safe LIKELY SAFE when used in food amounts. There isn't enough information available to know if tamarind is safe for use as a medicine. Pregnancy and breast-feeding: There is not enough reliable information about the safety of taking tamarind if you are pregnant or breast feeding. People take tamarind for constipation, liver and gallbladder problems, and stomach disorders. It is also used to treat colds and fever. Women sometimes use tamarind to treat pregnancy-related nausea. It is given to children to treat intestinal worms.
Tamarind is used a lot in South Asian cooking – tamarind paste. But, if you can find Tamarind in it’s natural pod state, it’s really worth eating. (I have found boxes of Tamarind Pods at Whole Foods and at Asian Markets.) They are a taste delight and have lots of health benefits. Keep reading for the health benefits. Besides being a taste treat, Tamarind fruit is so good for you. 1  Aids digestion – slight laxative. 2  Natural remedy for bile disorders. 3  Lowers cholesterol and thus, is good for your heart. 4  High in Vitamin C. 5  High in antioxidants. 6  Good source of magnesium and potassium.
Your weight depends on what you eat every day over time. If you are avoiding high carb foods every day.. cheating once in a while.. you'll notice a reduction in your weight. It's healthy not to be consuming too many carbs. Your blood pressure and body fat will go down. Our bodies are designed to eat meat and vegetable. Your body uses the carbs it needs to keep functioning. The rest is converted to fat and stored. So taking too much carbs causes you to gain fat. Having too little (such as in starvation) causes you to first use up your fat then your muscle proteins.
So, if you are taking aspirin, do not use tamarind during pregnancy because of the following reasons: 1  Tamarind usually increases the absorption of aspirin in the body. 2  This may induce side effects of aspirin to manifest. 3  Increased aspirin intake, especially during early pregnancy, has been linked with miscarriages. 2. Laxative: Tamarind acts as a moderate laxative. It helps relieving constipation, which is a common problem during pregnancy. However, consuming too much tamarind and thereby too much laxative can cause any of the following problems: 1  It can cause uncontrolled diarrhea, which can harm the
@mukthar931 (128). January 4, 2011 11:31pm CST. Whenever I think of tamarind my mouth starts watering .That too salted and spiced one .Tamarind is too much acidic .we in India daily use it in our curries .What if we eat raw tamarind or other blended type too much.Has it any effect. 4 responses. Badkid. • Badkid (236
Tamarind is highly acidic by nature. Therefore, the chance is big that it will take a toll on your beautiful sets of teeth with regular consumption. If you eat tamarind in excessive quantity, the enamel of your teeth is likely to get corroded by its acid component. Remember, too much tamarind is extremely bad for the health as well as for the look of your teeth. 6. As said earlier, tamarind is an acidic food element. When we eat it, the acid levels go up within our gastrointestinal tract, especially our stomach. So, if you are already suffering from digestive issues like gastroesophageal reflux disease (GORD) or ‘acid reflux’, you should stay away from it.