Useful Life. In case of useful life, residual value reflects the cost or worth of the asset at the end of its useful life. For example, if you purchase a machine with an expected useful life span of ten years, residual value will be used to determine the depreciated cost at the end of ten years. The residual value of an asset or property can be simply explained as the worth of an asset at the end of its lease period or useful life. It is one of the major and significant elements of leasing calculu
DEFINITION of 'Residual Value'. How much a fixed asset is worth at the end of its lease, or at the end of its useful life. If you lease a car for three years, its residual value is how much it is worth after three years. The residual value is determined by the bank that issues the lease before the lease begins. It is based on past models and future predictions. It is an important factor in determining the car's monthly lease payments (the other factors are the interest rate and tax).
AAA |. How much a fixed asset is worth at the end of its lease, or at the end of its useful life. If you lease a car for three years, its residual value is how much it is worth after three years. The residual value is determined by the bank that issues the lease before the lease begins. It is based on past models and future predictions. It is an important factor in determining the car's monthly lease payments (the other factors are the interest rate and tax).
Residual value helps in determining the depreciable amount of asset and the same is spread over the useful life of the asset. In straight line method a fixed portion of depreciable amount is transferred to income statement as expense from the cost of fixed asset recognized in the financial statements. By Hasaan Fazal on. International Accounting Standard (IAS) 16 recognizes that residual value of asset may increase or decrease as a result of revaluations or future assessments of non-current asset. IAS 16 recognizes such change as a change in accounting estimate i.e. adjustment will be prospective in nature.
Definition. The residual value of an asset or property can be simply explained as the worth of an asset at the end of its lease period or useful life. It is one of the major and significant elements of leasing calculus
DEFINITION of 'Residual Dividend'. The term residual dividend refers to a method of calculating dividends. A dividend is a payment made by a company to its shareholders. It is essentially a portion of the company's profits that is divided amongst the people who own stock in the company. A residual dividend policy is one where a company uses residual or leftover equity to fund dividend payments. Typically, this method of dividend payment creates volatility in the dividend payments that may be undesirable for some investor
n. in a will, the assets of the estate of a person who has died with a will (died testate) which are left after all specific gifts have been made. Typical language: I leave the rest, residue and remainder [or just residue] of my estate to my grandchildren.. 
Therefore, the revalued amount of asset will be the carrying amount of asset and residual value will be deducted from the same to compute depreciable amount which is to be reduced over the remaining useful life of asset. Consider the following example for better understanding. By Hasaan Fazal on. International Accounting Standard (IAS) 16 recognizes that residual value of asset may increase or decrease as a result of revaluations or future assessments of non-current asset. IAS 16 recognizes such change as a change in accounting estimate i.e. adjustment will be prospective in nature.