Creatinine Blood Test. A blood test for the level of creatinine in the blood is one way to check kidney function. The normal ranges are 0.8 to 1.2 mg/dl for males and 0.6-0.9 mg/dl for females. The kidney helps to maintain the creatinine levels of the blood. A test for the blood urea nitrogen helps test for the proper function of the kidney. As urea is a waste product of protein metabolism built up after the breakdown of protein; the kidneys are responsible for its proper disposal. The kidneys dispose of the urea by filtering it and creating urine.
Urine Tests. One of the primary functions of the kidneys is to filter blood and remove waste products. Urine tests measure how well your kidney filters (see figure) are working. When functioning normally, glomerular filters are able to filter out wastes, but keep protein and red blood cells in the bloodstream. Tests Used to Diagnose Kidney Disease. Several types of tests are used to diagnose and evaluate different types of kidney disease: 1  Kidney function is determined using blood and urine tests. 2  Imaging tests are a relatively painless and low-risk way of providing useful information about kidney structure.
As kidney function decreases, the BUN level increases. Urine Tests. Some urine tests require only a few ounces of urine. But some tests require collection of all urine produced for a full 24 hours. A 24-hour urine test shows how much urine your kidneys produce in 1 day. The test also can give an accurate measurement of how much protein leaks from the kidney into the urine in 1 day
Glomerular Filtration Rate(GFR). This test is a measure of how well the kidneys are removing wastes and excess fluid from the blood. It may be calculated from the serum creatinine level using your age, weight, gender and body size. Normal GFR can vary according to age (as you get older it can decrease). The normal value for GFR is 90 or above
Blood and urine tests show how well the kidneys are doing their job. Urine tests can show how quickly body wastes are being removed and whether the kidneys are leaking abnormal amounts of protein. Here's a quick guide to the tests used to measure kidney function. This test is a measure of how well the kidneys are removing wastes and excess fluid from the blood. It may be calculated from the serum creatinine level using your age, weight, gender and body size. Normal GFR can vary according to age (as you get older it can decrease).
Blood Tests. The simplest way to monitor kidney function is to obtain blood tests for BUN (blood urea nitrogen) and creatinine. These two substances are normal metabolic waste products that are excreted by the kidneys. Urea is a byproduct of protein breakdown, and creatinine is a byproduct of normal muscle functioning. Tests Used to Diagnose Kidney Disease. Several types of tests are used to diagnose and evaluate different types of kidney disease: 1  Kidney function is determined using blood and urine tests. 2  Imaging tests are a relatively painless and low-risk way of providing useful information about kidney structure.
Tests to check kidney function. When kidney function is decreased, substances such as urea, creatinine, and certain electrolytes begin to build up in the blood. The following tests measure levels of these substances to show how well your kidneys are working. 1 The doctor can use the GFR to regularly check how well the kidneys are working and to stage your kidney disease. 2  A blood urea nitrogen (BUN) test measures how much nitrogen from the waste product urea is in your blood. 3  BUN level rises when the kidneys aren't working well enough to remove urea from
GFR is estimated from results of a blood-based creatinine test. It is an indication of how well your kidneys are working to remove wastes from your blood. GFR is calculated using the serum creatinine and other factors such as age and gender. In the early stages of kidney disease GFR may be normal. 
A creatinine clearance test compares the creatinine in a 24-hour sample of urine to the creatinine level in the blood, to show how many milliliters of blood the kidneys are filtering out each minute (ml/min). Urine Tests. Some urine tests require only a few ounces of urine. But some tests require collection of all urine produced for a full 24 hours. A 24-hour urine test shows how much urine your kidneys produce in 1 day.
Healthy kidneys remove wastes and excess fluid from the blood. Blood tests show whether the kidneys are failing to remove wastes. Urine tests can show how quickly body wastes are being removed and whether the kidneys are also leaking abnormal amounts of protein. Urine Tests. Some urine tests require only a few ounces of urine. But some tests require collection of all urine produced for a full 24 hours. A 24-hour urine test shows how much urine your kidneys produce in 1 day.