A preposition usually indicates the temporal, spatial or logical relationship of its object to the rest of the sentence. For example: 1  The book is on the table. 2  The book is beside the table. 3  She read the book during class. 
/ˌprɛpəˈzɪʃən/. noun. plural prepositions. Learner's definition of PREPOSITION. [count] grammar. : a word or group of words that is used with a noun, pronoun, or noun phrase to show direction, location, or time, or to introduce an object. The preposition “on” in “The keys are on the table” shows location. The preposition “in” in “The movie starts in one hour” shows time.
Search. The following are all examples of prepositions: in, on, at, around, above, near, underneath, alongside, of, and for. A preposition sits before a noun (or a pronoun) to show the noun's relationship to another word in the sentence. 
preposition. n. 1. (Grammar) a word or group of words used before a noun or pronoun to relate it grammatically or semantically to some other constituent of a sentence. Abbreviation: prep. [C14: from Latin praepositiō a putting before, from pōnere to place]. prep·o·si·tion 1. n. Abbr. prep. A word or phrase placed typically before a substantive and indicating the relation of that substantive to a verb, an adjective, or another substantive, as English at, by, with, from, and in regard to.
preposition-a function word that combines with a noun or pronoun or noun phrase to form a prepositional phrase that can have an adverbial or adjectival relation to some other word. 2. 
Examples of PREPOSITION. 1  The preposition “ on ” in “ The keys are on the table ” shows location. 2  The preposition “ in ” in “ The movie starts in one hour ” shows time. Full Definition of PREPOSITION. : a function word that typically combines with a noun phrase to form a phrase which usually expresses a modification or predication. — prep·o·si·tion·al \-ˈzish-nəl, -ˈzi-shə-nəl\ adjective. — prep·o·si·tion·al·ly adverb.
Definition. In English grammar, a preposition is a word (one of the parts of speech and a member of a closed word class) that shows the relationship between a noun or pronoun and other words in a sentence. See the lists of simple prepositions and deverbal prepositions below. 
Prepositions. A preposition is a word that indicates location (in, near, beside) or some other relationship (about, after, besides) between a noun or pronoun and other parts of the sentence. 
Prepositions. A preposition is a word such as after, in, to, on, and with. Prepositions are usually used in front of nouns or pronouns and they show the relationship between the noun or pronoun and other words in a sentence. They describe, for example: 1  the position of something: 