Polycystic kidney disease (also called PKD) causes numerous cysts to grow in the kidneys. These cysts are filled with fluid. If too many cysts grow or if they get too big, the kidneys can become damaged. PKD cysts can slowly replace much of the kidneys, reducing kidney function and leading to kidney failure. PKD can affect other organs besides the kidney. People with PKD may have cysts in their liver, pancreas, spleen, ovaries, and large bowel. Cysts in these organs usually do not cause serious problems, but can in some people. PKD can also affect the brain or heart. If PKD affects the brain, it can cause an aneurysm.
Polycystic kidney disease (PKD) is a genetic disease and there is no cure or treatment to stop the cysts from growing. However, there are treatments available to decrease symptoms and possibly slow the rate of kidney damage. 
Antibiotics for infection: Kidney infection is a common complication of polycystic kidney disease. It can worsen kidney condition and accelerate Polycystic Kidney Disease to kidney failure stage, so antibiotics can be used when there is kidney infection. It is common to hear patients post such a question. PKD is fatal, so a cure is urgently needed. However, as a matter of fact, there is no cure for Polycystic Kidney Disease now. It is a kidney problem related with gene and as of now there is no such a medical method that can help to remove PKD gene from patients’ body. For this reason, Polycystic Kidney Disease still remains a challenge for in medical field
Treating autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease. Although there are some potentially useful medications that can reduce the growth rate of cysts, there is currently no treatment that can cure autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) or stop cysts forming in the kidneys. 
Polycystic kidney disease (PKD) is an inherited disorder in which clusters of cysts develop primarily within your kidneys. Cysts are noncancerous round sacs containing water-like fluid. The cysts vary in size and, as they accumulate more fluid, they can grow very large. Kidney failure is another common problem for people with polycystic kidney disease. Polycystic kidney disease varies greatly in its severity, and some complications are preventable. Lifestyle changes and medical treatments may help reduce damage to your kidneys from complications, such as high blood pressur
Although kidneys usually are the most severely affected organs, polycystic kidney disease can cause cysts to develop in your liver and elsewhere in your body. The disease causes a variety of serious complications. A common complication of polycystic kidney disease is high blood pressure. Kidney failure is another common problem for people with polycystic kidney disease. Polycystic kidney disease varies greatly in its severity, and some complications are preventable. Lifestyle changes and medical treatments may help reduce damage to your kidneys from complications, such a
The goal of PKD treatment is to manage symptoms. Controlling high blood pressure is the most important part of treatment. Treatment may include: 1  pain medication. 2  blood pressure medication. 3  antibiotics (to treat UTI). 4  a low-sodium (salt) diet. 5  diuretics (to help remove excess fluid). 6  surgery (to drain cysts and help relieve discomfort)