Fodder Beet is one of the highest yielding forage options available to farmers. Fodder Beet is a long growing-season crop which requires a high level of care in establishment but as it is not a brassica it is not as susceptible to the diseases that brassica is and once established is highly palatable to animals. To promote rapid establishment seed should be sown to a depth of 2-3cm, in drier seed beds you are best to sow slightly deeper so the seed can access as much moisture early on as possible. Fodder Beet is a demanding crop but if done properly can be extremely profitable.
Fodder beet can be sown from early April. Beet is a sensitive crop and will not thrive in harsh conditions. For maximum yields, sow as early as possible under favourable weather and soil conditions, delays after mid April will reduce yields by about 4% per week latest sowing time is late May. Aim to establish 30,000 plants per acre. Average field emergence for sugar beet is about 70% (range 55% to 80%) and is a little less for fodder beet. With 56cm (22’) row width and 18cm (7’) spacing 40,700 seeds are planted per acre, assuming 74% establishment this gives 30,000 plants per acre. Sow at a depth of 3.2cm.
Sowing period: Sugar Beet can be sown from mid March. Fodder Beet can be sown from early April. Beet is a sensitive crop and will not thrive in harsh conditions. For maximum yields, sow as early as possible under favourable weather and soil conditions, delays after mid April will reduce yields by about 4% per week. Latest sowing time is late May. Roughly 4kg Sugar Beet = 1kg Barley and 5.5kg Fodder Beet = 1kg Barley. It is important to introduce beet gradually, allow a two week introduction period. The total diet must be balanced for protein, fibre and minerals particularly Calcium, Phosphorus and Copper. Roots must be clean and washing is preferable.
Enermax is a high dry matter type fodder beet (18-21%) that has been specifically bred for lifting and feeding to animals. This will replace the variety Magnum. Enermax has been shown to give a yield advantage over Magnum in New Zealand trials over the last 2 years. To promote rapid establishment seed should be sown to a depth of 2-3cm, in drier seed beds you are best to sow slightly deeper so the seed can access as much moisture early on as possible. Fodder Beet is a demanding crop but if done properly can be extremely profitable.
Precision drilling is recommended for fodder beet. Generally pelleted seed is used and planted at 80,000 – 90,000 seeds per hectare (8 - 9 seeds sown per m 2) – 50 cm row spacing and 25 cm between plants in the rows. The optimum sowing depth is around 2 cm. It is very important to identify paddocks intended for sowing fodder beet at least 12 months before sowing of the crop. Fodder beet is very sensitive to acid soils and the pH needs to be tested (pH of 6 to 6.5 is required) and lime applied at least 6 months before sowing if required.
Treat it as a forage concentrate as it digests very quickly in the rumen. Roughly 4kg Sugar Beet = 1kg Fodder Beet = 1kg Barley and 5.5 kg Fodder Beet = 1kg Barley. It is important to introduce to beet gradually, allow a two week introduction period. Aim to establish 30,000 plants per acre. Average field emergence for sugar beet is about 70% (range 55% to 80%) and is a little less for fodder beet. With 56cm (22’) row width and 18cm (7’) spacing 40,700 seeds are planted per acre, assuming 74% establishment this gives 30,000 plants per acre. Sow at a depth of 3.2cm.
This week has seen a number of questions from customers about fodder beet-a crop that can be described as between a sugar beet and a mangold. This crop was once popular but has fallen out of favour in recent years due to a lack of suitable harvesting machinery. We also use untreated, unpelleted fodder beat seed for two year wild bird seed mixtures. Using the seed in this form allows the seed to be sown in combination with small unpelleted seed of kale and quinoa. In bird food mixes the fodder beet provides an excellent source of seed in the mix's second winter. As a crop for animal feed fodder beet is planted in the spring from early-mid April and harvested in October/November. The roots must be lifted and stored for use throughout the winter and are often clamped with a straw covering to protect against frost before being fed to livestock. Share | | |
Cost of production – Monitoring of fodder beet crops in Tasmania has identified that the direct costs of production (fertiliser, herbicides etc.) associated with a fodder beet crop is between $1,600 and $1,800 per ha. Fodder beets while similar in appearance, are not related to forage brassicas, but are related to sugar beets, beet roots and silver beets. Successful production of fodder beets requires careful planning and execution of all steps in the crop-production process.
Fodder beet is usually sown when soil temperatures are adequate to produce large amounts of high quality feed for late autumn and winter. Yields of 18-22 tonnes kg DM/ha are typical of well managed crops although yields of up to 30 tonnes kg DM/ha are possible under good growing. It is very important to identify paddocks intended for sowing fodder beet at least 12 months before sowing of the crop. Fodder beet is very sensitive to acid soils and the pH needs to be tested (pH of 6 to 6.5 is required) and lime applied at least 6 months before sowing if required.