In many people, gout initially affects the joints of the big toe. But many other joints and areas around the joints can be affected in addition to or instead of the big toe. These include the insteps, ankles, heels, knees, wrists, fingers, and elbows. Signs and Symptoms of Gout. 1  hyperuricemia. 2  presence of uric acid crystals in joint fluid. 3  more than one attack of acute arthritis. 4  arthritis that develops in a day, producing a swollen, red, and warm joint. 5  attack of arthritis in only one joint, often the toe, ankle, or knee.
Gout is a rheumatoid form of arthritis that causes the inflammation, joint pain and swelling especially in the toe, knee and ankle, also reducing their mobility. Gout usually appears in midlife and primarily in males. It can be hereditary or secondary to process of other disease. It can affect the knee joint, toe and even finger causing pain in the affected area. Some of the most common symptoms of gout include pain, inflammation, discomfort, swelling, fever, body aches and itching.
The tissues that can be affected by gout include: Joints. Gout frequently involves the joint of the big toe. However, it can affect small joints like those in the finger, as well as large joints, such as the knee and hip. Bursae. Located throughout the body, these thin, slippery sacs with just a slight amount of fluid in them act as cushions between bones and soft tissues. Gout is a disorder that causes sudden attacks of intense pain, swelling, and redness in your joints or soft tissues. In many cases, the first attacks occur in the joints of the big toe, but gout can affect many other joints. It is one type of inflammatory arthriti
1 The first gout attack usually affects the large joint of the big toe, but it can occur in feet, ankles, knees, hands and wrists. 2  After the most severe pain subsides, some joint discomfort may last from a few days to a few weeks. 3  Kidney stone symptoms may also occur. Gout is a form of inflammatory arthritis characterized by sudden, severe attacks of pain, redness, and inflammation in joints. Gout occurs when excess uric acid, one of the body’s normal waste products, accumulates in the body forming monosodium urate crystals in the fluid that lubricates the joint linings.
1 Pseudogout most commonly affects the knees, but it can also affect other joints, including the ankles. 2  Reactive arthritis. 3  Reactive arthritis is a chronic form of arthritis that often occurs following an infection of the genital, urinary or gastrointestinal system. 
Gout knee is an inflammatory condition characterised by intense pain, swelling and redness of the knee joint. Gout affects approximately 1-2 people in every 100, affecting one million Americans each year. Men are 2-3 times more likely to be affected than women. The peak age of incidence is 75. If the level of uric acid is too high, crystals can form in your soft tissues, usually around one joint such as the knee. The crystals cause an inflammatory response in the tissues leading to hot, swollen, red and painful joints.
In this article. Gout is a form of arthritis -- an inflammation of the joints -- that causes sudden, severe attacks of pain, tenderness, redness, warmth, and swelling in some joints. It usually affects one joint at a time, although it can be in several joints at once. The large toe is most often affected, but gout can also affect other joints in the leg -- such as the knee, ankle, and foot -- and less often, the hand, wrist, fingers, and elbow. The spine is almost never affected. Gout Causes, Symptoms, and Treatme
In conclusion, gout is a form of arthritis that causes inflammation of the joint. It can affect the knee joint, toe and even finger causing pain in the affected area. Some of the most common symptoms of gout include pain, inflammation, discomfort, swelling, fever, body aches and itching.