North American Industrial Classification System (NAICS) codes identify a company's primary business activity. For example, a company with NAICS 311 is primarily engaged in food manufacturing.
The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) is the standard used by Federal statistical agencies in classifying business establishments for the purpose of collecting, analyzing, and publishing statistical data related to the U.S. business economy.
The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) is the standard used by Federal statistical agencies in classifying business establishments for the purpose of collecting, analyzing, and publishing statistical data related to the U.S. business economy.
NAICS code 31 is the government industry code for manufacturing. 2-digit codes are the broadest classication of NAICS codes. For more information about NAICS codes, visit our NAICS Code Guide.
This list of industries included in Industries at a Glance is arranged in North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code order. Each industry sector and subsector is placed into the appropriate group: Goods-Producing Industries or Service-Providing Industries.
Industries by Supersector and NAICS Code. This list of industries included in Industries at a Glance is arranged in North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code order. Each industry sector and subsector is placed into the appropriate group: Goods-Producing Industries or Service-Providing Industries.
You can also find NAICS and SIC codes by looking at the industry information for a company in a database like Hoover's Online. Some NAICs and SIC codes include the following: Sporting and Athletic Goods Manufacturing (NAICS: 339920; SIC: 3949). Sporting Goods Stores (NAICS: 451110; SIC: 5941).
The manufacturing sector is part of the goods-producing industries supersector group. The Manufacturing sector comprises establishments engaged in the mechanical, physical, or chemical transformation of materials, substances, or components into new products.