A Competitive Salary differs from location to location and from profession to profession. What it means is a salary that compares favorably to what other employers are paying someone, in the same general location and the same kind of job at the same level of seniority.
Defining the Competition. To determine whether a wage is truly competitive, define the competition. For example, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, the average individual income in the United States was $40,563 a year in 2012. But the Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that in May 2013, the average salary of U.S. dentists was $164,570 a year.
Usually, competitive salary means it's average or a bit above average for the job in the area. Insei makes the best banners and avs If we don't believe in freedom of expression for people we despise, we don't believe in it at all.. It is the responsibility of intellectuals to speak the truth and expose lies..
Many employers include the cryptic phrase “competitive salary” in job listings. Generally, the term means that the job pays somewhere around the local average for your field. If the pay is truly competitive, you should be able to easily make a similar salary in the same job at another firm in your area.
Definition: Salary range is the range of pay that has been established to be paid to employees performing a particular job or function. Salary range generally has a minimum pay rate, a maximum pay rate, and a series of mid-range opportunities for pay increases.
HR practitioners would suggest that being competitive means paying, on average, +/- 10 percent from the market average pay for a job or a group of jobs. For those of us who are more conservative, they would say it means within 5 percent of the market average.
In Print. The most common usage of the phrase competitive hourly rate is when a company puts it in a recruiting ad or job posting. In this form, the company wants to promote the fact that it offers wages equal to or better than what its competitors offer for similar positions.