The distance from Earth to the sun is one of the most important factors in making Earth habitable. The next closest planet to the sun, Venus, for example, is the hottest planet in the solar system. Temperatures there reach more than 750 F (400 C), while the average temperature on Mars is minus 80 F (minus 60 C). The average temperature on Earth is about 61 degrees F (16 C). But temperatures vary greatly around the world depending on the time of year, ocean and wind currents and weather conditions.
Simple: Atmosphere. The greenhouse effect is what keeps life possible on earth. When there is a difference in the temperature of two places, there will be a gradient created between them and the system try to make it equal by various movement's like, condution(solid), convection(liquid, gases) and Radiation in vacuum. The abundance of liquid water is one example of how conditions on Earth provide a favorable environment for life. Another condition is the planet's location in the solar syste … m.
because it is the right distance from the Sun that liquid water can exist on its surface and it's massive enough that it can maintain an atmosphere. They don't, so there is … no because. It so happens that a variety of natural forces have Earth's temperatures be different things at different times. The abundance of liquid water is one example of how conditions on Earth provide a favorable environment for life. Another condition is the planet's location in the solar syste … m.
In the end, temperatures vary considerably on every planet in our Solar System, due to a multitude of factors. But from what we can tell, Earth is alone in that it experiences temperature variations small enough to achieve a degree of stability. This is because the amount of sunlight the reaches the equator changes very little, although the temperatures do vary somewhat during the rainy season. Measurement: The average surface temperature on Earth is approximately 14°C; but as already noted, this varies.
These measurements were part of a global temperature survey conducted by scientists at NASA’s Earth Observatory during the summers of 2003 to 2009. For five of the seven years surveyed (2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, and 2009) the Lut Desert was the hottest spot on Earth. This is because the amount of sunlight the reaches the equator changes very little, although the temperatures do vary somewhat during the rainy season. Measurement: The average surface temperature on Earth is approximately 14°C; but as already noted, this varies.
There is roughly a 147 °C range on Earth, or 265 °F. The lowest recorded temperature on Earth is −89.2 °C (−128.6 °F), 21st July, 1983 at the Vostok Antarctic station. … the highest recorded temperature on Earth is 57.8 °C (136 °http://wiki.answers.com/wiki/Fahrenheit), 13th August 1922 in Libya. Some of this e … nergy is able to escape back into space, which causes the Earth to cool. The balance between the warming and the cooling is what maintains the Earth's temperature. However, increases in the amount of substances in the atmosphere can affect this balance, which causes phenomena such as global warming.
Temperature on Earth. Earth is the most unique planet in the Solar System because it is the only one that can support life as we know it. Its dense atmosphere serves to protect life on Earth by filtering harmful ultra-violet rays from hitting the surface and vaporizing most meteors before they can strike. Global warming has also caused an increase in the average surface temperature of the Earth over the last 150 years. Average temperatures on the planet have risen by 0.8° C since the 1880s, with the worst increases occurring over the past few decades.
Uranus is the coldest planet in our Solar System, with a lowest recorded temperature of -224°C, while temperatures in Neptune’s upper atmosphere reach as low as -218°C. This is because the amount of sunlight the reaches the equator changes very little, although the temperatures do vary somewhat during the rainy season. Measurement: The average surface temperature on Earth is approximately 14°C; but as already noted, this varies.
Earth's atmosphere also play a vital role in regulating the temperature by providing a blanket of gases that not only protects us from excessive heat and harmful radiation from the sun, but also traps heat rising from the Earth's interior, keeping us warm. The average temperature on Earth is about 61 degrees F (16 C). But temperatures vary greatly around the world depending on the time of year, ocean and wind currents and weather conditions. Summers tend to be warmer and winters colder. Also, temperatures tend to be higher near the equator and lower near the poles
because it is the right distance from the Sun that liquid water can exist on its surface and it's massive enough that it can maintain an atmosphere. They don't, so there is … no because. It so happens that a variety of natural forces have Earth's temperatures be different things at different times. Some of this e … nergy is able to escape back into space, which causes the Earth to cool. The balance between the warming and the cooling is what maintains the Earth's temperature. However, increases in the amount of substances in the atmosphere can affect this balance, which causes phenomena such as global warming.