For example, the chemical energy in a battery is converted into electrical energy. The electrical energy, which involves the motion of electrical charges or currents, can be used to power everyday devices like computers and flashlights. Mechanical energy can also be transformed into electrical energy. For example, a hydroelectric plant uses the mechanical energy of flowing water to generate electrical energy. Wind energy is another mechanical to electrical energy transformation. Many of these energy transformations can be useful. For instance, converting mechanical energy from a waterfall into electrical energy or converting nuclear energy to electrical energy to power a city is very useful. Some of these can be harmful, however, such as releasing nuclear energy to destroy a small city.
A device that transforms electrical energy to mechanical energy is a A) generat. Physics and Astronomy • Started by einsteindude • Views: 119 • Last post by bSharp (10 months ago). Stored energy is ________ energy, and energy of motion is ________ energy. 
In this process, the chemical energy is transformed into mechanical energy, which you use to move, and which we'll cover in more detail in a moment. It also transforms it into thermal energy, which is created through the metabolic processes in your body to generate heat. Many of these energy transformations can be useful. For instance, converting mechanical energy from a waterfall into electrical energy or converting nuclear energy to electrical energy to power a city is very useful. Some of these can be harmful, however, such as releasing nuclear energy to destroy a small city.
Electrical energy. Bulb and battery. A battery transfers stored chemical energy as electrical energy in moving charges in wires. For example, electrical energy is transferred to the surroundings by the lamp as light energy and thermal energy.
Electrical energy is a form of energy that occurs as a result of either stored or moving charged particles. When the energy is stored it is called electric potential energy and when it is moving in an electric current it is a form of kinetic energy. Our most common form of electrical energy is found in our wall outlets. Thermal energy is energy that results from moving atoms or molecules and is commonly referred to as heat. 5. An electric stove plugged into a wall outlet uses the electrical energy to flow into the burners on the stove top and as the electric charges pass through the burners the electrical energy is converted into thermal energy. 6.
Report Abuse. a motor/ In a car, the motor converts the electrical energy from the battery and converts it into mechanical energy (aka spinning wheels). Same as the motor in a radio. It takes the electricity from the wall plug (or batteries) and converts it to make it spin. Scott L · 8 years ago. A motor, of course. In a motor there is electrical energy as well as chemical energy this turns to mechanical energey when supplied with power.