Once spring returns, you can replant outdoors. If you are growing caladiums in containers, they can be overwintered indoors. Now that you know how to plant caladiums, you can add these pretty plants to your landscape. Planting caladium bulbs is easy and with proper caladium care they will last for years.
Caladiums are semi-tropical plants. Caladiums (caladium vent) are large, leafy plants that are usually heart-shaped. They are semi-tropical plants thought to have originated in the Amazon basin of Brazil. There are several different varieties of caladiums, all of which range in color and size.
Caladiums (caladium vent) are large, leafy plants that are usually heart-shaped. They are semi-tropical plants thought to have originated in the Amazon basin of Brazil. There are several different varieties of caladiums, all of which range in color and size.
You can order caladium tubers (often called bulbs) online or buy them from your local nursery. The larger the tubers, the larger your plants will be. To make planting even easier, purchase sprouted caladiums in small pots.
Colorful, flowering plants such as hydrangeas, begonias, impatiens and achimenes can be planted with caladiums. Begonias are a common companion to caladiums in many gardens. Both plants grow well in filtered sunlight, and neither will overpower the other at the roots or in the blooming phase.
Growing caladiums is easy with proper caladium care. These tropical-like plants are commonly grown for their multi-colored foliage, which may be green, white, red, or pink. Caladiums can be grown in containers or clumped together within beds and borders.
Some people know Caladiums as a houseplant. Others recognize Caladiums as a colorful, leafy plant that brightens up the shady areas of their yard. However you recognize them, these plants are popular among home gardeners indoors or out. Growing Caladium plants is easy. They are tropical plants, native to the Amazon river area of Brazil. So, it's no surprise that these plants love a warm, shady, humid environment. Caladium is grown as an ornamental plant for it's colorful leaves.