Pregnancy is technically only possible during the five days before ovulation through to the day of ovulation. These six days are the ‘fertile window’ in a woman’s cycle, and reflect the lifespan of sperm (5 days) and the lifespan of the ovum (24 hours). If a woman has sex six or more days before she ovulates, the chance she will get pregnant is virtually zero. The only time a woman can conceive is during the ‘fertile window’ of the menstrual cycle. This window will vary depending on the individual’s cycle, however timing intercourse in the 6 days leading up to and including ovulation is the window with highest chance of conception.
The most fertile days in your cycle are the days leading up to ovulation, before the egg is released from the ovary. After ovulation the egg survives for just 24 hours, while sperm retain fertilising capability for two to three days in the fallopian tubes. Your fertile window refers to the most fertile days in your menstrual cycle which give you the highest chance of conceiving. If you’re trying to fall pregnant, the timing of when you and your partner have sex is critical.
Yes | No Thank you! sperm can live up to 5 days, not 3. a human egg is only viable for 12 to 24 hours, you can get pregnant anytime from about five days prior to ovulation to even occasionally two days after, for a total of about seven days. Also it's based on a 28 day cycle. The person with the 28 day cycle will ovulate at the beginning of the five days, a 30 day cycle, in the middle etc....The first thing you need to know is how long your cycle is and first day to first day doesn't mean you count the first day twice.
Ovulation normally occurs 24 to 36 hours after the LH surge, which is why the LH surge is a good predictor for peak fertility. The egg can only be fertilised for up to 24 hours after ovulation. If it isn’t fertilised the lining of the womb is shed (the egg is lost with it) and your period begins. This marks the start of the next menstrual cycle. While an egg only survives for up to 24 hours, sperm can remain active for up to five days
Predicting your ovulation date and fertile window can be tricky, particularly if your cycle is irregular, but the body communicates certain patterns that can help clue you in on when you might be able to get pregnant. Ovulation is the phase of your cycle in which one of your ovaries releases an egg into a fallopian tube, where it awaits the company of one of your partner’s sperm for fertilization. Once released, an egg only has a lifespan of about 24 hours to be fertilized.
Your fertile window is made up of the days in your menstrual cycle when pregnancy is possible. The length of this fertile phase is determined by the maximum life span of your partner's sperm and your egg. Sperm can survive a maximum of five days in fertile cervical fluid and your ovum can survive for up to one day. Your theoretical fertile window is thus six days long, comprised of the five days before ovulation and the day of ovulation. You only have a chance to conceive when you have intercourse on these days
This fertile window last for 6 days-it begins 5 days prior to ovoulation and lasts until the day of ovulation. Your most fertile days are the 4-5 days before and the day of ovulation. 
The highest pregnancy rates are during the fertile window. The fertile window is the time in a women's cycle when pregnancy can occur. This is usually the six-day interval ending on the day of ovulation. You will optimize your chances of pregnancy if you have intercourse during this timeframe. 
During my ovulation time, how many days am I really fertile? During your window of ovulation, an egg is only available to be fertilized for about 12-24 hours. But since sperm can live in the body for 3-5 days after sex, and the egg is available for one day, your most fertile time is considered to be about 5-7 days. 
Even though the egg is only viable for 24 hours, your partner’s sperm are able to survive and fertilize it for up to five days after intercourse, so any intercourse within five days of ovulation (the fertile window) could result in conception. Ovulation is the phase of your cycle in which one of your ovaries releases an egg into a fallopian tube, where it awaits the company of one of your partner’s sperm for fertilization. Once released, an egg only has a lifespan of about 24 hours to be fertilized.