THE VERTEBRATES Chordates (phylum Chordata) are deuterostome coelomates whose nearest relatives in the animal kingdom are the echinoderms, the only other deuterostomes. However, unlike echinoderms, chordates are characterized by a notochord, jointed appendages, and segmentation. 
13)All live marine environments. The phylum Chordata is a strange phylum in that it contains three subphyla, two of which contain invertebrates while the third contains all the animals we are most familiar with, the vertebrates. After a brief introduction I will deal with each subphylum individually. 
Animals can be classified into two main groups: vertebrates and invertebrates. The main difference between vertebrates and invertebrates is that invertebrates, like insects and flatworms, do not have a backbone or a spinal column. Examples of vertebrates include humans, birds, and snakes. Differences in Physical Characteristics. Vertebrates have a skeletal structure with a spinal column or backbone. Invertebrates have no backbone, while vertebrates have a well-developed internal skeleton of cartilage and bone and a highly developed brain that is enclosed by a skull.
The phylum Chordata is a taxonomic group. All animals which have a  spine, or backbone, are classified in the phylum Chordata. There  are three subphylums in Chordata: Uroch … ordata (tunicates),  Cephalachordata (lancelets), and Vertebrata (vertebrates). This  phylum includes all animals which have a hollow nerve cord and a  notochord at some stage during their development. In the case of  vertebrates, the notochord is present in the embryo, and develops  into the vertebral body. + 16 others found this useful. Harley Tucker.
The phylum Chordata is a taxonomic group. All animals which have a  spine, or backbone, are classified in the phylum Chordata. There  are three subphylums in Chordata: Uroch … ordata (tunicates),  Cephalachordata (lancelets), and Vertebrata (vertebrates). The chordata phylum is the highest phylum in the animal kingdom. Charachterized by a notochord, nerve, cord and gill slits; includes the urochordates, lancets, and vertebrates … .
The feature uniting all chordates (all vertebrates and some invertebrates) is that at some stage in their lives, all have a flexible supporting rod, a notochord, that runs through the length of their bodies. Differences in Physical Characteristics. Vertebrates have a skeletal structure with a spinal column or backbone. Invertebrates have no backbone, while vertebrates have a well-developed internal skeleton of cartilage and bone and a highly developed brain that is enclosed by a skull.
Although the majority of animals that make up the phylum Chordata are vertebrates, some invertebrates are also part of this phylum. All animals which have a spine, or backbone, are classified in the phylum Chordata. The chordata phylum is the highest phylum in the animal kingdom. Charachterized by a notochord, nerve, cord and gill slits; includes the urochordates, lancets, and vertebrates … .
Living members of the phylum Chordata include four types of vertebrate chordates belonging to the subphylum Vertebrata fish, amphibians, birds and mammals-and three types of invertebrate chordates cephalochordates, urochordates and hagfish (subphylum Myxini, class Myxini). 
Members of the phylum Chordata are bilaterally symmetric, deuterostome coelomates, and the vertebrate chordates display segmentation. Hemichordata, which includes the acorn worms, has been presented as a fourth chordate subphylum, but it now is usually treated as a separate phylum. For the leaf shape, see Cordate. Chordates (/ˈkɔrdeɪts/) are animals possessing a notochord, a hollow dorsal nerve cord, pharyngeal slits, an endostyle, and a post-anal tail for at least some period of their life cycles.