A separate question is whether events of this nature, when paid for with campaign funds, may be held in a House room or office. Prior to the end of the 105th Congress, the policy of the Ethics Committee was that with only one exception, campaign-funded events may not take place in House rooms or offices. 1 May not convert campaign funds or resources to personal use, and must be able to verify that campaign resources have not been so misused; and. 2  May not use campaign funds or resources for official House purposes, with limited exceptions.
2016 National Political Party Committee Summary. This graph represents overall receipts, disbursements and a cash summary for the six Democratic and Republican national party committees for a two-year period. The six graphs below the combined national party graph represent receipts, disbursements and a cash summary for each of
Several points should be kept in mind in considering whether to use campaign funds to pay for congressional expenses: 1  The only campaign funds that a Member may use to pay for congressional expenses are funds of his or her principal campaign committee – not the funds of a leadership PAC or a multicandidate committee. 1 May not convert campaign funds or resources to personal use, and must be able to verify that campaign resources have not been so misused; and. 2  May not use campaign funds or resources for official House purposes, with limited exceptions.
The Chairperson of the DCCC is the fourth ranking position among House Democrats, after the Minority Leader, the Minority Whip and the Democratic Caucus Chairperson. 1 The other organization (the Independent Expenditure campaign), which makes independent expenditures in congressional districts on behalf of the campaigns, is not allowed to coordinate activities with the campaigns.
Definition. An electoral systemthat gives the only office to the candidate with the largest vote total, rather than appointing numerous offices by the prcentage of the total vote. Term. Machine. Definition. A party unit that recruits members with tangible rewards and that is tightly controlled by the leadership
Plurality System. Definition. An electoral system in which the winner is the person who gets the most votes, even if he or she does not receive a majority; used in almost all American elections. Term.
The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC, spoken as the D triple-C or the D-trip) is the Democratic Hill committee for the United States House of Representatives, working to elect Democrats to that body. 1 The other organization (the Independent Expenditure campaign), which makes independent expenditures in congressional districts on behalf of the campaigns, is not allowed to coordinate activities with the campaigns.
Featured Blog Post October 6, 2015 Millions spent by 487 organizations to influence TPP outcome. Featured Blog Post October 5, 2015 With a gun lobby lock on Congress, Clinton would try executive action. Featured Blog Post October 7, 2015 Women charged in UN bribery case were donors to Rep. Calvert. With your generous support, together we can count cash & make change. Ryan’s fundraising flair could be crucial for House GOP. October 9, 2015 Rep. Kevin McCarthy‘s shocking announcement that he would drop his bid for House speaker could put Republicans at a disadvantage in one of the most vital aspects of the next election: fundraising.
After Emanuel's election as chairman of the Democratic Caucus, Chris Van Hollen became committee chair for the 110th Congress, and thus for the 2008 elections. He continued through the 2010 elections. 1 The other organization (the Independent Expenditure campaign), which makes independent expenditures in congressional districts on behalf of the campaigns, is not allowed to coordinate activities with the campaigns.