Utah is bordered by Colorado to the east, Wyoming to the northeast, Idaho to the north, Arizona to the south, and Nevada to the west. It also touches a corner of New Mexico in the southeast. The name Utah is from the Ute Indians. The Mormon State. Utah is sometimes called  The Mormon State , after the first settlers in the territory; members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Utah is sometimes called  The Mormon State , after the first settlers in the territory; members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. From the official name of the Mormon religion. The first settlers in Utah were the members of the Church of Latter Day Saints, also called the Mormo
Utah originates from an Apache Indian word (yuttahih), which means people of the mountains. Europeans thought the word refered to Indians living higher in the mountains than the Navajo, and the territory became known as the land of the Utes, and eventually Utah. Utah. The U.S. Mint's bicentennial commemorative quarter for Utah features a golden spike and two locomotives (representing the completion of the transcontinental railroad); and the caption Crossroads of the West. Utah became the 45th state in 1896.
Duchesne County: The origin of the county name Duchesne is uncertain. There are six interesting possibilities. The Ute Indian word doo-shane meaning dark anyon. Fort Duchesne, built by the French. Rose Du Chense, founder of the sacred heart in Utah. Tooele County: The exact origin of the name is unknown, though many believe that the name Tooele is from an Indian Chief named Tuilla. Uintah County: Named for the Ute Indian tribe that lives in the basin. Utah County: Apparently anglicized form the word Yuta, which is what the Spanish Explores called the Ute Indians.
Utah is a state in the United States. It became the 45th state admitted to the Union on January 4, 1896. Utah is the 13th-largest, the 33rd-most populous, and the 10th-least-densely populated of the 50 United States. The Mormon State. Utah is sometimes called  The Mormon State , after the first settlers in the territory; members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Utah is sometimes called  The Mormon State , after the first settlers in the territory; members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. From the official name of the Mormon religion. The first settlers in Utah were the members of the Church of Latter Day Saints, also called the Mormon
The Biblical name Moab refers to an area of land located on the eastern side of the Jordan River. Some historians believe the city in Utah came to use this name because of William Pierce, the first postmaster, believing that the biblical Moab and this part of Utah were both the far country. However, others believe the name has Paiute origins, referring to the word moapa meaning mosquito. Moab is a city in Grand County, in eastern Utah, in the western United States. The population was 5,046 at the 2010 census. It is the county seat and largest city in Grand County. Moab attracts a large number of tourists every year, mostly visitors to the nearby Arches and Canyonlands National Parks.
THE STATE NAME: The Navajo Indians were referred to by the Apache as Yuttahih meaning one that is higher up.. Europeans misunderstood this term to refer to the tribes living higher in the mountains than the Navajo, the Utes, and the territory was called the land of the Utes, Utah.
Approximately 62% of Utahns are reported to be members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints or LDS (Mormons), which greatly influences Utah culture and daily life. The world headquarters of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) is located in Utah's state capital, Salt Lake City. 