insertion. 1. the act of implanting, or condition of being implanted. 2. the site of attachment, as of a muscle to the bone that it moves. 3. in genetics, a rare nonreciprocal type of translocation in which a segment is removed from one chromosome and then inserted into a broken region of a nonhomologous chromosome. 1. the act of implanting, or condition of being implanted. 2. the site of attachment, as of a muscle to the bone that it moves. insertion sequence (IS). see transposable genetic elements. velamentous insertion. attachment to a membrane, such as the umbilical cord to the fetal membranes.
Muscle attachments may be direct or indirect. Direct or fleshy attachments: the epimysium of the muscle is fused to the periosteum of a bone or perichondrium of a cartilage. Indirect:muscle fascia extends beyond the muscle as a tendon (ropelike) or a flat broad aponeurosis and anchors the muscle to bone.
A tendon connects bone to muscle and a ligament connects bone to bone. The actual point of attachment where a muscle connects to a bone is called the process(n) of the bone. This is a bulge in the bone where muscle can attach to provide movement. The actual point of attachment where a muscle connects to a  bone is called the process(n) of the bon … e.
Skeletal muscle: Along with smooth and cardiac muscle, one of the types of muscle tissue in the body. Skeletal muscle represents the majority of muscle tissue. It is the type of muscle that powers movement of the skeleton, as in walking and lifting. 
with reference to a skeletal muscle, the site of its attachment to bone which during its contraction is relatively mobile, compared to the site of its origin. For example, in elbow flexion contraction of the biceps moves the forearm (site of insertion) rather than the scapula (site of origin above the shoulder joint). 1. the act of implanting, or condition of being implanted. 2. the site of attachment, as of a muscle to the bone that it moves. insertion sequence (IS). see transposable genetic elements. velamentous insertion. attachment to a membrane, such as the umbilical cord to the fetal membranes.
Full Definition of ATTACHMENT. 1. : a seizure by legal process; also: the writ or precept commanding such seizure. 2. 3. : a device attached to a machine or implement. 4. : the physical connection by which one thing is attached to another. 5. 
All muscles exert their force by pulling between at least two points of attachment. The movement that results from contraction is called the action of the muscle. Typically, one attachment remains stationary and is called the origin and the other attachment moves and is called the insertion. 
A tendon connects bone to muscle and a ligament connects bone to  bone. The actual point of attachment where a muscle connects to a  bone is called the process(n) of the bon … e. + 2 others found this useful. Daleen Marlow
Lesson Summary. In summary, skeletal muscles are attached to bones on each end by tendons. The origin is the fixed attachment, while the insertion moves with contraction. The action, or particular movement of a muscle, can be described relative to the joint or the body part moved. Groups of muscles are involved in most movements and names are used to describe the role of each muscle involved. 
muscle-tendon attachment. Definitions: 1. the union of a muscle and tendon fiber in which sarcolemma intervenes between the two; the end of the muscle fiber may be rounded, conic, or tapered. Synonyms: muscle-tendon junction. The definition information for muscle-tendon attachment is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here.