English name. In English, the name Doreen means-Variant of Dorothy or Dorothea, meaning Gift of God.. Other origins for the name Doreen include-English, Irish, Irish, Celtic, French, Gaelic.The name Doreen is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-Variant of Dorothy or Dorothea, meaning Gift of God. Origin-English. Alternate Origins-Irish Irish Celtic French Gaelic. 
The name Doreen is of Irish origin, and it means Gift . It's a name commonly given to girls. Doreen was born in 1974. According to the 1959 U.S. Social Security Administration data, the name Doreen ranks #91 in popularity as a baby girl's name in New York. Imagine that, 460 babies in New York have the same name as you in 1959. Across the entire United States a total of 2,205 babies also bear the same first name during the same year.
(2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Doreen for girls. Doreen was first listed in 1920-1929 and reached its top rank of #205 in the U.S. in the 1950s, but is not listed at the moment. (2014 Birth Statistics). Below is a graphed comparison of the popularity of the girl name Doreen and affiliated names. Popular alternative forms of Doreen listed in the Top 1000 are Dorine, Dorinda, Dorene and Dora. Variants like Dorrie are seldom used. 
Doreen is also a short form of the English name Dorothy. Doreen has 21 derivatives. Derivatives of Doreen include Doirean, Doireana, Doireann, Doireanna, Doireanne, Dore, Dorean, Doreena, Doreene, Dorena, Doreyn, Dorienne, Dorin, Dorina, Dorinne, Dorreen, Doryn, and Doryne. Doreen is a rare baby girl name. At the modest peak of its usage in 1956, 0.125% of baby girls were given the name Doreen. It had a ranking of #147 then.
The name Doreen is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Doreen is: or Dorothea, meaning Gift of God. Irish Meaning: The name Doreen is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Doreen is: A, derived from a Celtic word meaning sullen. The name Doreen is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Doreen is: Beautiful. French Meaning: The name Doreen is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Doreen is: Blonde. Gaelic Meaning: The name Doreen is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Doreen is: Ann. Celtic Meaning: The name Doreen is a Celtic baby name. In Celtic the meaning of the name Doreen is: Moody
What does Doreen mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Doreen is of Irish origin. The meaning of Doreen is brooding. It is also of French origin, where its meaning is gilded. Doreen is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Dor-een. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 4783 in baby name popularity for girls with 29 occurrences.
[ 2 syll. do-ree(n) , dor-e- en ] The baby girl name Doreen is pronounced as Daoer IY-N †. Doreen is used mostly in the English language. Its language of origin is Old Greek and English. The name is derived from the combination of Dora or Dorothy, with the suffix '-een' found in other names such as Maureen and Kathleen. Doreen is a rare baby girl name. At the modest peak of its usage in 1956, 0.125% of baby girls were given the name Doreen. It had a ranking of #147 then.
Meaning of Doreen. Irish name. In Irish, the name Doreen means-gift. Other origins for the name Doreen include-Irish, Celtic, French, English, Gaelic.The name Doreen is most often used as a girl name or female name. Irish Name Meaning-gift. Origin-Ireland.