Following the completion of their Early Childhood Education Diploma, many students also pursue their interest in working with children with special needs and enroll in Humber’s Early Childhood Education – Advanced Studies in Special Needs graduate certificate program 07901. The Early Childhood Education program is a professional preparation program, recognized by the Ontario College of Early Childhood Educators. As such, the program is demanding both in terms of academic work and expectations for professional behaviour.
Our Program. Humber’s Early Childhood Education (ECE) diploma prepares you to work with children (birth to 12 years) and their families in programs recognized by The Ontario College of Early Childhood Educators. The Early Childhood Education program is a professional preparation program, recognized by the Ontario College of Early Childhood Educators. As such, the program is demanding both in terms of academic work and expectations for professional behaviour.
Provincial Registration. In order to practice in Ontario as an Early Childhood Educator or a Registered Early Childhood Educator, graduates must apply for registration in the College of Early Childhood Education (CECE). Graduates of the ECE program will meet the education requirement for registration. Field placement is central to the learning experience, so you will be placed in the field for two days each week. In order to practice in Ontario as an Early Childhood Educator or a Registered Early Childhood Educator, graduates must apply for registration in the College of Early Childhood Education (CECE).
How many early childhood education teachers have degrees or college-level education? 1  In 2004, 70% teachers and administrators working in center-based early childhood education had some college-level education; one-third had a bachelor’s degree. 1 In 2004, 70% teachers and administrators working in center-based early childhood education had some college-level education; one-third had a bachelor’s degree. 2  Overall, in 2004, 58% of early childhood educators had some college-level education or higher
1 Many people in and out of the early childhood field deeply believe that women are naturally predisposed to caring for young children, and men are not (Neugebauer, 1999; Sanders, 2002; Nelson & Sheppard, n.d.; Cunningham & Dorsey, 2004). 1 Also some indication that there is a certain level of tension between men and women exists in early childhood programs due partly to the number of single mothers in our field who resent the lack of support from their own children’s fathers (Fagan, 1996).
Return to Top. 1  In 2004, 70% teachers and administrators working in center-based early childhood education had some college-level education; one-third had a bachelor’s degree. 2  Overall, in 2004, 58% of early childhood educators had some college-level education or higher. 1 In 2004, 70% teachers and administrators working in center-based early childhood education had some college-level education; one-third had a bachelor’s degree.
This guide can help you get started. Page 2 - Early Childhood Education Planning a career in Early Childhood Education (ECE) To prepare for any new adventure, you have to start at the beginning, decide where you want to go, how you will get there, and what you will need along the way. 
This career map is for internationally educated Early Childhood Educators (ECEs). Early Childhood Educator is a regulated profession in Ontario. You must be a registered member of the College of Early Childhood Educators (CECE) to work as an Early Childhood Educator in Ontario. Please visit the website of the College of Early Childhood Educators for the most up-to-date information about applying for membership. Copyright in this career map is held jointly by the Queen’s Printer for Ontario and the College of Early Childhood Educators, (CECE) © 2014.