Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Understanding the various shapes and arrangements of bacteria enables scientists to identify the type of bacteria it is and what methods can be used to control its growth. 
The bacteria are formed as a huge biomass of organisms that might exceed the number of plants and animals. There are various different groups of bacteria where one group consists of chlorophyll which makes use of photosynthesis to prepare its own food. Some bacteria are aerobic and some are anaerobic. Some travel in air, some in water and some through any object from one hand to the hand of other people. They travel in the medium with the help of flagella or by wriggling.
Your question is a little unclear, as by definition one cannot identify something that is unknown. If you mean that one might want to identify a bacterium that is found somewhere, that's one thing. If you mean that one might want to classify a newly discovered bacteria, here are some reasons... The bacterium might be pathogenic. The bacterium might be drug-resistant. 
The bacteria also eat away the chemicals in the body of organism it infects and break down the chemicals. Various groups of bacteria carry out different processes in the body to generate symptoms of the disease. So, it is necessary to identify the bacteria and find out to which class it belongs to. Some bacteria are aerobic and some are anaerobic. Some travel in air, some in water and some through any object from one hand to the hand of other people. They travel in the medium with the help of flagella or by wriggling.
The various diseases that are caused by the bacteria due to the release of the toxins by them inside the cells made it necessary to identify the bacteria. Some bacteria are aerobic and some are anaerobic. Some travel in air, some in water and some through any object from one hand to the hand of other people. They travel in the medium with the help of flagella or by wriggling. The bacteria that are living inside the living organisms cause lot of discomfort in them
Bacterial identification is a process which is used to pinpoint the identity of specific bacteria. It is an important part of medical treatment, since many treatments are heavily dependent on the identity of the particular organism causing a medical problem, and it is also an important part of scientific research. 
Bacteria are important because they produce a community's food  chain and a type of gas called methane. They recycle nutrients,  help bread rise, make alcohol, and help make … yogurt and cheese. You would die without bacteria in your body. Some plants could not  fix nitrogen and thrive without bacteria. yes it is sometimes important but sometimes not. The advantage of having bacteria is that it can protect our body. but it also can harm our body by bringging virus than can ca … use sickness.
Unknown Bacteria. a universal method of identifying bacteria allows for all scientists from any part of the world to identify the same species in an identical manner allowing for a precise of classification. Bacteria are distributed throughout the world in almost every conceivable habit. Most bacteria are not harmful, in fact, some bacteria, such as Lactobacillus (which aids in a protective immunity for newborns), are beneficial to humans. A few... Cooke BIOL Lab 1230 Lab Practicum II 7/19/14 Introduction Bacteria identification is essential to our communities for numerous reasons....
For example, if a bacteria can make a person ill, but it has something called a beta-lactam ring in its cell wall, that is good to know because a drug that works on the beta-lactam ring is able to kill the bacteria. Unknown bacteria may also have clinical uses. Report Abuse. The importance of identifying unknown bacteria is very important for one reason, bacteria does not stay in the same form, it's mutating all the time. I believe, if doctors need to treat some bacteria with antibiotics, they need to identify first, what type of bacteria they dealing with