Fees for a wedding photographer can vary a lot, from below $1000 to over $5000 and way beyond, but those are the categories I see from some web sites. For those who are starting out, what is a ballpark fee they should charge? What are the factors they should consider, such as the duration of the ceremony, etc.? 
Charge clients for the value of the photograph, not your time. If you use the same scenario, rather than charge $2000 for the day, you offer a price of $200 per image. This is much easier for a client to digest. Hi, brand new to photography and have a chance make a pitch to a couple local hotels. Both are very interested in a panoramic 2 foot by 8 foot. I have an idea about how much I will need to charge for the frame (if they want the image framed) but really don’t have any idea how much to ask for the print.
So, here are the takeaways to remember when it comes to figuring out how much a wedding photographer will cost you: 1  The average cost for a wedding photographer is 10-15% of a couple’s total budget, which is currently around $2800 for the average US couple. 1 You can expect your wedding photographer cost to run you anywhere between $2,500-$10,000 depending on the experience of your photographer along with what they’re including in your wedding package. 2  Wedding photography packages will typically cover 8 hours, on average. 3  More or less shooting time will influence your cost
As far as advanced photographers, these photographers can charge between $100 to $200 per hour. For large jobs, they will generally charge a flat fee. For example, events like weddings or baby showers are generally $1,000 to $2,000 for the entire job. A baby portrait session could be a flat fee of about $500 to $600. Learn How to Compare.
Talk to other photographers. Get a gauge of what the top photographers are charging in your area and compete at a higher level. In the Detroit area I know that for local use $150-$400 per image is common. At the same time, there are photographers who charge $50 and give the client the CD with all the images. To figure how much you should charge, add up all your expenses using the NPPA calculator. How much is your equipment, rent, insurance, props, books, education, and everything else you spend money on related to your business. Next, add how much you wish to make in 2014 to the total.
If you earn $30 an hour at the office, chances are you’d like to earn at least $30 an hour from your photography. If you are a full time photographer, you can work backwards from what you need to earn in a year to support your family and your lifestyle. The long answer depends a lot more on where you personally fit into the photography industry and your local market. In this article I am going to explore the seven critical factors that determine how much should photographers charge per hour, along with an example of how to calculate a reasonable billable rate.
How Much to Charge for Baby Photography. Knowing how much to charge for baby photography can be tricky, especially if someone is new to the field. But, pricing services correctly can ensure that the freelance photographer gets what he is worth and can still attract clients. For large jobs, they will generally charge a flat fee. For example, events like weddings or baby showers are generally $1,000 to $2,000 for the entire job. A baby portrait session could be a flat fee of about $500 to $600. Learn How to Compare.
You’ve added up your expenses and it will cost you $1,500 a month or $18,000 per year to run your business. Wait, don’t forget $5,000 for marketing. This increases your total to $23,000 for business expenses annually, plus $50,000 for your salary making your target photography sales goal $73,000 a year. Hi, brand new to photography and have a chance make a pitch to a couple local hotels. Both are very interested in a panoramic 2 foot by 8 foot. I have an idea about how much I will need to charge for the frame (if they want the image framed) but really don’t have any idea how much to ask for the print.
According to Snapknot.com, the average cost for a wedding photographer is $2,814. However, in cities such as San Francisco and New York, wedding photography prices are closer to $4,000. 1 You can expect your wedding photographer cost to run you anywhere between $2,500-$10,000 depending on the experience of your photographer along with what they’re including in your wedding package. 2  Wedding photography packages will typically cover 8 hours, on average. 3  More or less shooting time will influence your cost