In some instances, consider adding helium to the shielding gas mixture for its ability to provide a hotter, more penetrating arc on thicker sections. For the GMAW process, a mixture of 75 percent helium balanced with 25 percent argon is a good option. Finally, consider purchasing low-dew-point shielding gases as protection against porosity. Follow all recommended welding procedures for shielding gas flow rates and purge cycles. As with any welding process on any material, following some basic guidelines is critical to obtaining the best results.
Argon is a major component of shielding gas when spraylike, high-productivity welding is desired in GMAW or FCAW for joining steel and stainless steel. Helium. Helium is considerably lighter than air, which means higher flow rates are required than for argon or carbon dioxide. You can choose from a variety of gas blends for gas metal arc welding (GMAW), gas tungsten arc welding (GTAW), or flux cored arc welding (FCAW). For each of these processes, the shielding gas performs multiple tasks.
Shielding Gas and Cost-effective Joining. Shielding gas selection is critical to achieving cost-effective joining of carbon steel, stainless steel, and aluminum. You can select one gas, such as argon for aluminum welding, to provide suitable arc stability, minimum spatter, and good bead shape. You can choose from a variety of gas blends for gas metal arc welding (GMAW), gas tungsten arc welding (GTAW), or flux cored arc welding (FCAW). For each of these processes, the shielding gas performs multiple tasks.
The basic gas for MIG/MAG welding is argon (Ar). Helium (He) can be added to increase penetration and fluidity of the weld pool. Argon or argon/helium mixtures can be used for welding all grades. For stainless steels there are also gases available containing small amounts of hydrogen (H 2). The table indicates the appropriate choice of shielding gas for MIG/MAG welding, taking account of different types of stainless steel and arc types.
Inductance, in particular, plays an important part in obtaining proper puddle fluidity. The shielding gas recommended for short-circuiting welding of stainless-steel contains 90% helium, 7.5% argon, and 2.5% carbon dioxide. The gas gives the most desirable bead contour while keeping the CO2 level low enough so that it does not influence the corrosion resistance of the metal. A current of approximately 300-350 amperes is required for a 1/16-in. electrode, depending on the shielding gas and type of stainless wire being used. The degree of spatter is dependent upon the composition and flow rate of the shielding gas, wire-feed speed, and the characteristics of the welding power supply.
While Ar, He and CO2 may be used by themselves (i.e. 100%) for certain applications, in other cases the four gases are mixed together in different combinations to form shielding gas blends. These blends are expressed as a percentage (e.g. 75% Ar / 25% CO2 or 75Ar/25CO2). Other gases (e.g. hydrogen) and many other gas mixes of different percentages and combination of gases are also used in the welding industry. Table 1 is simply meant to be a quick summary of the most common gases used for common types of base materials in the U.S, welding market.
The normal gas for TIG welding is argon (Ar). Helium (He) can be added to increase penetration and fluidity of the weld pool. Argon or argon/helium mixtures can be used for welding all grades. In some cases nitrogen (N 2) and/or hydrogen (H 2) can be added in order to achieve special properties. For stainless steels there are also gases available containing small amounts of hydrogen (H 2). The table indicates the appropriate choice of shielding gas for MIG/MAG welding, taking account of different types of stainless steel and arc types.
Choosing The Right Gas. Many MIG welding applications lend themselves to a variety of shielding gas choices, and you need to evaluate your welding goals in order to choose the correct one for your specific application. MIG Welding Shielding Gas Basics. MIG (GMAW) welding with shielding gas and a solid wire electrode produces a clean, slag-free weld without the need to continually stop welding to replace the electrode, as in Stick welding.