Memory loss, also referred to as amnesia, is an abnormal degree of forgetfulness and/or inability to recall past events. Depending on the cause, memory loss may have either a sudden or gradual onset, and memory loss may be permanent or temporary.
Description of Memory disorder. Memory disorder: disturbances in registering, retaining, or recalling a mental impression; e.g., amnesia or fugue. Source: CRISP. Memory disorder: Disturbances in registering an impression, in the retention of an acquired impression, or in the recall of an impression.
The Stanford Center for Memory Disorders is dedicated to the fight against cognitive decline. There are many different causes of memory loss, and an accurate diagnosis by an experienced team is essential to getting the best treatment. MAKE A DIFFERENCE.Support us by making an online donation today.
Head injury. A severe hit to the head -- from a fall or automobile accident, for example -- can injure the brain and cause both short-and long-term memory loss. Memory may gradually improve over time.
The Stanford Center for Memory Disorders is dedicated to the fight against age-related cognitive decline. There are many different causes of memory loss, and an accurate diagnosis is essential to getting the best treatment. At the Stanford Center for Memory Disorders, our physicians lead an interdisciplinary team of health care professionals working together to provide accurate diagnoses and to guide
Dissociative amnesia is one of a group of conditions called dissociative disorders. Dissociative disorders are mental illnesses that involve disruptions or breakdowns of memory, consciousness, awareness, identity, and/or perception. When one or more of these functions is disrupted, symptoms can result.
Causes of Memory Loss. Here are some of the more common things that can cause memory loss: Medications. A number of prescription and over-the-counter medications can interfere with or cause loss of memory. Possible culprits include: antidepressants, antihistamines, anti-anxiety medications, muscle relaxants, tranquilizers, sleeping pills, and pain medications given after surgery. Alcohol, tobacco, or drug use.
While such sudden, profound loss of memory is rare, memory loss is a problem that affects most people, to a degree. Whether it's occasional forgetfulness or loss of short-term memory that interferes with daily life, there are many causes of memory loss.