There are three major types of blood vessels: the arteries, which carry the blood away from the heart; the capillaries, which enable the actual exchange of water and chemicals between the blood and the tissues; and the veins, which carry blood from the capillaries back toward the heart. 
The abdominal aorta is the main blood vessel in the abdominal cavity that transmits oxygenated blood from the thoracic cavity to the organs within the abdomen and to the lower limbs. 
The liver, which is the largest organ in the abdominal cavity, lies mainly in the upper right section of the abdominal cavity, just inferior to the diaphragm. Liver Structure The liver has two main lobes, the right lobe and the smaller left lobe, separated by a ligament. Spleen. The spleen, the largest lymphatic organ, is located in the upper left region of the abdominal cavity posterior to the stomach. Connective tissue divides the spleen into partial compartments, each of which contains tissue known as white pulp and red pulp.
Lungs and Blood Vessels. Your lungs and linked blood vessels deliver oxygen to your body and remove carbon dioxide from your body. Your lungs lie on either side of your breastbone and fill the inside of your chest cavity. Your left lung is slightly smaller than your right lung to allow room for your heart. 
x7. a) vertebral column-projects into abdominal cavity, forming a gutter on either side. b) muscles of posterior wall-quadratus lumborum, psoas major. c) thoracic diaphragm-dome shaped; extends downward to overlap supeior ends of posterior abdominal wall muscles (psoas major & quadratus lumborum). 2) collateral ganglia & plexuses. a) several sympathetic collateral ganglia located along abdominal aorta, at the base of the major arterial branches from the aorta. 1) ganglia named for associated artery-celiac, superior mesenteric, and inferior mesenteric ganglia.
The abdomen is the area below the chest and above the pelvis. It is comprised of muscles, vertebrae, ribs, blood vessels, nerves, and several vital organs, including the liver, small intestine, large intestine, and kidneys. Read More. The liver is located in the upper right-hand part of the abdominal cavity, under the ribs. Although it has many functions, the liver is best known for processing blood, separating waste from nutrients.
The largest artery in your body is called the aorta. We previously learned that it originates at the left ventricle of the heart and ascends a short distance before making a U-turn at the aortic arch and plunging downward through your chest, which is referred to as the thorax, and into your abdomen. Like the thoracic aorta, the abdominal aorta has many branches that supply blood to the surrounding structures. The first branch off of the abdominal aorta is called the celiac trunk. This vessel is like a large exit ramp that splits into three back roads.
Organs of Abdominal Cavity. Stomach. The stomach is a thick-walled, J-shaped organ that lies on the left side of the abdominal cavity deep to the liver and diaphragm. The stomach is continuous with the esophagus above and the duodenum of the small intestine below. Spleen. The spleen, the largest lymphatic organ, is located in the upper left region of the abdominal cavity posterior to the stomach. Connective tissue divides the spleen into partial compartments, each of which contains tissue known as white pulp and red pulp.
Recall that the kidneys sit far to the back of the abdominal cavity, and are two bean shaped organs. Now locate the tiny ureters that attach to the kidneys. These tubes deliver urine to the bladder. In the lower part of the abdomen the bladder is a stretchy pouch that sits next to the large intestine (colon). 
The abdominal cavity is lined with a protective membrane termed the peritoneum. The inside wall is covered by the parietal peritoneum. The kidneys are located in the abdominal cavity behind the peritoneum, in the retroperitoneum. The viscera are also covered by visceral peritoneum. Between the visceral and parietal peritoneum is the peritoneal cavity, which is a potential space. It contains serous fluid that allows motion