The three muscles of the posterior thigh (semitendinosus, semimembranosus, biceps femoris long & short head) flex (bend) the knee, while all but the short head of biceps femoris extend (straighten) the hip. The hamstrings cross and act upon two joints-the hip and the knee. Semitendinosus and semimembranosus extend the hip when the trunk is fixed; they also flex the knee and medially (inwardly) rotate the lower leg when the knee is bent.
The semitendinosus is one of the hamstring muscles. It arises or starts from the ischial tuberosity(the bone you sit on) and inserts or connects by a long tendon to tibia (low … er leg bone) just below the medial (inside) side of the knee. There are three main muscles of the posterior compartment of the thigh. They are the biceps Femoris, the semitendinosus and the semimembranosus. Together, they cause flexion … of the knee and extension of the hip. 7 people found this useful.
At the back of the leg behind the thigh there are three muscles known as the hamstrings. These muscles have a lot to do with how flexible we are. The three muscles, semitendinosus, semimembranosus, and biceps femoris (which has two heads) flex the knee and extend the hip (except for one head of the biceps femoris). The hamstrings also cross and act upon the joints of both the hip and the knee. We are looking at three muscles with four attachment
The Hamstrings consist of three muscles the Biceps Femoris muscle, the Semitendinosus muscle, and the Semimembranosus muscle. These muscles combined are primarily responsible for the flexion of the knee joint (bending of the knee) as well as assisting the extension of the thigh (moving the upper leg backwards). 
The symptoms of a pulled hamstring depend upon the severity of the injury. Strains can be described by how much damage occurs to the muscle and tendon fibers. A grade 1 strain describes fibers that are stretched but not torn. A grade 2 strain occurs if there is a partial tear of some of the muscle or tendon fibers.
The hamstrings (posterior thigh muscles) are made up of 3 long muscles that start at the bottom of your pelvis extending down the back of your thigh and along either side of your knee, to your shin bones. There are three main muscles of the posterior compartment of the thigh. They are the biceps Femoris, the semitendinosus and the semimembranosus. Together, they cause flexion … of the knee and extension of the hip. 7 people found this useful.
Share. 0 comments. How to build strong hamstring muscle. There are many articles dedicated to how to build thigh muscle. But you will not find so much information about the training of back thigh muscles in particular, or also called hamstrings muscle. This region is often deprived of load, consequently, under-developed. The hamstring group is the back of the thigh while the quadriceps group refers to muscles of front of thigh. So, further in this article we will talk about a set of exercises that proved to be very effective in building back of the
he hamstring muscles are located on the back of your thigh. They work closely with your quadriceps muscles (front of your thigh), your gluteal muscles, and your calf mus … cles to ensure proper movement of your leg and hip. There are three main muscles of the posterior compartment of the thigh. They are the biceps Femoris, the semitendinosus and the semimembranosus. Together, they cause flexion … of the knee and extension of the hip. 7 people found this useful.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In human anatomy, a hamstring is any of the three tendons contracted by three posterior thigh muscles (semitendinosus, semimembranosus and biceps femoris), and the term is often also used to refer to the muscles themselves. The hamstrings cross and act upon two joints-the hip and the knee. Semitendinosus and semimembranosus extend the hip when the trunk is fixed; they also flex the knee and medially (inwardly) rotate the lower leg when the knee is bent.
Thus it is time for some hamstring injury education for athletes. The hamstrings are the tendons and three long posterior thigh muscles, the semitendinosus, semimembranosus, and the biceps femoris. Each muscle is made up of long strands of fibers. They connect the pelvis (ischial tuberosity) down to the back of the knee. 