1 View all Adventist Health Southern California Network jobs in Los Angeles, CA-Los Angeles jobs. 2  Salary Search: Nuclear Medicine Technologist Diagnostic Imaging salaries in Los Angeles, CA. Certification in Nuclear Medicine required; Is required, as well as certification in nuclear medicine approved by ARRT or the CNMT board.... 15 hours ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Alliance HealthCare Services
The average salary for nuclear medicine technologist jobs in San Diego, CA is $65,000. Average nuclear medicine technologist salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term nuclear medicine technologist anywhere in the job listing. The nuclear medicine technologist salary comparisons feature allows job seekers to get the information required to make important career decisions and negotiate salary ranges. For additional nuclear medicine technologist salary information, we recommend visiting Payscale.com.
$34,750. The median annual wage for nuclear medicine technologists was $70,180 in May 2012. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $50,560, and the top 10 percent earned more than $93,320.
Below is a map displaying a few key cities in California and surrounding states, click on any one to find Nuclear Medicine Technologist Salaries for that area. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Requires a bachelor's degree with at least 2 years of experience in radiology. May be expected to meet certain state certifications. Familiar with standard concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field. Relies on experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. Performs a variety of tasks.
Average Nuclear Medicine Technologist salaries for job postings in California are 7% higher than average Nuclear Medicine Technologist salaries for job postings nationwide. 
Job Outlook. Employment of nuclear medicine technologists is projected to grow 20 percent from 2012 to 2022, faster than the average for all occupations. However, because it is a small occupation, the growth will result in only about 4,200 new jobs over the 10-year period. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $50,560, and the top 10 percent earned more than $93,320.
You can expect a salary range of $57,000 to $87,000 annually as a Nuclear Medicine Technologist in California. California, as we know it today, was built from a foundation of ancient cultures, Spanish explorations and gold. 
California Nuclear Medicine Technologist Salaries. Within California there is a lot of variation in Nuclear Medicine Technologist salaries. These variations depend on on a wide range of factors from population to general competitiveness in the market. Requires a bachelor's degree with at least 2 years of experience in radiology. May be expected to meet certain state certifications. Familiar with standard concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field. Relies on experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. Performs a variety of tasks.
2013 Salary Survey Results Angela Foster, CNMT, NCT Introduction During the summer of 2013, the Nuclear Medicine Technology Certification Board (NMTCB) conducted a salary survey. Invitations to participate in this 20 minute online survey were sent by email to 21,943 NMTCB certificants via their email address on file. Classroom instructors and clinical instructors reported average salaries of $70,000‐$71,000 which falls right between PET ($73,000) and nuclear cardiology technologist ($68,000). Program directors bring in an average of $78,000.