Sweetbreads on mushroom (morel) risotto. Sweetbreads or ris are culinary names for the thymus (also called throat, gullet, or neck sweetbread) or the pancreas (also called heart, stomach, or belly sweetbread), especially of calf (ris de veau) and lamb (ris d'agneau), and, less commonly, of beef and pork. The word sweetbread is first attested in the 16th century, but the etymology of the name is unclear.  Sweet  is perhaps used since the thymus is sweet and rich-tasting, as opposed to savory-tasting muscle flesh. Bread may come from brede, roasted meat or from the Old English brǣd (flesh or meat)
Sweetbread is the thymus gland of animals. It is a light meat that is firmer in texture than brains. The sweetbreads of veal are considered the best. Beef sweetbreads are rather fatty and coarse, but if well prepared, they will taste almost the same as veal. 
Pin it. Let's get this first fact out of the way: sweetbreads are not sweet breads. Sweetbreads are considered offal, and sweet breads are, well, breads that are sweet. Knowing the difference will save you from an unwelcome surprise in either direction. 
The thymus gland (known as throat sweetbread) and the pancreas (stomach sweetbread), especially of the calf and lamb (although beef sweetbreads are sometimes eaten), are considered delicacies and are rich in mineral elements and vitamins. The pancreas is generally preferred to the thymus. 
A sweet bread is either the thymus gland or the pancreas of a lamb or calf. The animal has to be under one year old in order to be able to get a thymus gland from it. You can do this by taking: 1  1 pound prepared sweet breads. 2  2 ounces butter. 3  2 ounces diced onions. 4  1 ounce diced carrots. 5  1 ounce diced celery. 6  1 pint demiglaze or, if you don't have demiglaze, 1 pint beef stock. 7  Heat the butter in a large saucepan that has a lid. 8  Add the vegetables and saute sauté them until they start to. 9  Caramelize place the 10  ... Meat  c
sweetbread. n. 1. (Cookery) the pancreas (stomach sweetbread) or the thymus gland (neck or throat sweetbread) of an animal, used for food. [C16: sweet + bread, perhaps from Old English brǣd meat; related to Old Saxon brādo ham, Old High German brāt, Old Norse brāth ]. (ˈswitˌbrɛd). n.
Why are they called sweetbreads? Sweetbreads have a very misleading name. They are neither sweet nor bread. It is thought by historians that they are called sweet because they taste richer and sweeter compared to typical meat, and they are bread because the old English word for flesh is br d. Sweetbreads are the thymus and pancreas glands of animals. 
The word “sweetbread” is first attested in the 16th century, but the logic behind the name is unclear. “ Sweet ” is perhaps used since the thymus is sweet and rich tasting, as opposed to savory tasting muscle flesh. “Bread” may come from brede ‘roasted meat’. Sweetbreads or ris are culinary names for the thymus (throat, gullet, or neck sweetbread) and the pancreas (heart, stomach, or belly sweetbread), especially of the calf (ris de veau) and lamb (ris d’agneau) (although beef and pork sweetbreads are also eaten).