The dish that is most associated with the region, however, is Pulpo a la Gallega (Polbo a Feira in the Galician language). Pulpo a la gallega is a simple dish with only four ingredients: octopus, olive oil, paprika and salt.
Some 125 years ago, when muleteers went to cattle fairs, they bought large amounts of octopus and then they'd prepare it with olive oil and paprika. Quite simple. The name in galician for pulpo a la gallega is pulpo a feira (fair style octopus) for a very simple reason. During the cattle fairs the farmers would buy or sell cattle, sell their farm products, etc, and buy groceries such as salt, sugar and other products they didn't have daily access to.
You can find pulpo a la gallega throughout Spain, but the best is still in Galicia. Somewhat surprisingly, the Lugo region has the best reputation fot the dish, despite it having a relatively small coastline. The dish is not an overly complicated dish, but the key is cooking the octopus to tender perfection.
So, pulpo a la gallega doesn't present many problems and it's always tastes great, however, it is said that all food is better when tasted in its source of origin. Should you ever decide to travel to Spain, we suggest you ask the locals for the best Galician style octopus in town.
In Spanish and Italian octopus is simply pulpo and polpo, respectively though there are many more descriptive terms for smaller octopuses like polipetto and polpetto. What is sold as baby octopus may either be juvenile octopus or a very small species of octopus; in either case, they are too small for this recipe.
Pulpo a feira. Though it originated in Galicia or the neighboring region of Leon, pulpo a feira, as it is known in Galician, or pulpo a la gallega, as it is called in Spanish, is now popular throughout Spain.
Origin: Galicia. Pulpo a la gallega-Galician style octopus-takes us back many centuries, not because the recipe was the same, but because octopus has been consumed in this autonomous region for longer than we can count.
Pulpo a la Gallega. This is a very typical Spanish dish from Galicia in the North West of Spain. This can be served as a tapas or a main meal. Pulpo is very popular at the markets or ferias in the region and it is very typical to see the pulpeiras with a huge copper pot, where the octopus is boiled.