Foot-candles is a unit of illuminance (as measured by incident meters). The SI unit is lux, or lumen per square metre, which is the same thing. EV is indeed a amount of exposure, as is lux-seconds. However, EV is sometimes used as a measure of illuminance or luminance by quoting an ISO number. For example, EV9 for ISO 100 means the illuminance (or luminance) that would give correct exposure for ISO 100 film. Even then, it's not an exact correspondence. 
Strictly, EV is not a measure of luminance or illuminance; rather, an EV corresponds to a luminance (or illuminance) for which a camera with a given ISO speed would use the indicated EV to obtain the nominally correct exposure. The exposure values in Table 2 are for ISO 100 speed (EV 100 ). For a different ISO speed, increase the exposure values (decrease the exposures) by the number of exposure steps by which that speed is greater than ISO 100, formally.
In photography, exposure value (EV) is a number that represents a combination of a camera 's shutter speed and f-number, such that all combinations that yield the same exposure have the same EV value (for any fixed scene luminance). The exposure values in Table 2 are for ISO 100 speed (EV 100 ). For a different ISO speed, increase the exposure values (decrease the exposures) by the number of exposure steps by which that speed is greater than ISO 100, formally.
A financial ratio that measures a company's return on investment. The EBITDA/EV ratio may be preferred over other measures of return because it is normalized for differences between companies. Using EBITDA normalizes for differences in capital structure, taxation and fixed asset accounting
AAA |. Enterprise Value, or EV for short, is a measure of a company's total value, often used as a more comprehensive alternative to equity market capitalization. The market capitalization of a company is simply its share price multiplied by the number of shares a company has outstanding. Enterprise multiples that contain enterprise value relate the total value of a company as reflected in the market value of its capital from all sources to a measure of operating earnings generated, such as EBITDA.
›› Definition: Electron volt. In physics, the electron volt (eV) is a unit of energy. By definition, it is equal to the amount of kinetic energy gained by a single unbound electron when it accelerates through an electrostatic potential difference of one volt. 
In high-energy physics, electron-volt is often used as a unit of momentum. A potential difference of 1 volt causes an electron to gain a discrete amount of energy (i.e., 1 eV). This gives rise to usage of eV (and keV, MeV, GeV or TeV) as units of momentum, for the energy supplied results in acceleration of the particle. The list of authors can be seen in the page history. As with the Units of Measurement Wiki, the text of Wikipedia is available under Creative Commons License see Wikia:Licensing. In physics, the electron volt (symbol eV; also written electronvolt) is a unit of energy equal to approximately 1.602×10−19 joule (symbol J). By definition, it is the amount of energy gained by the charge of a single electron moved across an electric potential difference of one volt
In physics, the electronvolt (symbol eV; also written electron volt) is a unit of energy equal to approximately 160 zeptojoules (symbol zJ) or 6981160000000000000♠1.6×10−19 joules (symbol J). Then, dividing the units of energy (such as eV) by a fundamental constant that has units of velocity (L T −1), facilitates the required conversion of using energy units to describe momentum. In the field of high-energy particle physics, the fundamental velocity unit is the speed of light in vacuum c.
It is often common to simply express mass in terms of eV as a unit of mass, effectively using a system of natural units with c set to 1 (hence, E = m). For example, an electron and a positron, each with a mass of 0.511 MeV/c 2, can annihilate to yield 1.022 MeV of energy. The list of authors can be seen in the page history. As with the Units of Measurement Wiki, the text of Wikipedia is available under Creative Commons License see Wikia:Licensing. In physics, the electron volt (symbol eV; also written electronvolt) is a unit of energy equal to approximately 1.602×10−19 joule (symbol J). By definition, it is the amount of energy gained by the charge of a single electron moved across an electric potential difference of one volt