Report Abuse. In the simplest terms, DNA is soluble in water, but not in alcohol. The DNA is dissolved in the mixture you have made with water, the sample, and probably detergent and meat tenderizer (maybe salt or baking soda, too). When you pour in the ice cold alcohol, the DNA comes out of solution and appears in the alcohol. ecolink · 8 years ago.
Ethanol precipitation is a commonly used technique for concentrating and de-salting nucleic acids (DNA or RNA) preparations in aqueous solution. The basic procedure is that salt and ethanol are added to the aqueous solution, which forces the precipitation of nucleic acid nucleic acids out of solution. After precipitation the nucleic acids can then be separated from the rest of the solution by centrifugation. The pellet is washed in cold 70% ethanol then after a further centrifugation step the ethanol is removed, and the nucleic acid pellet is allowed to dry before being resuspended in clean aqueous buffer.
Application. One technique that scientists can use to concentrate DNA or RNA is called ethanol precipitation. In an aqueous (liquid) solution of DNA or RNA, salt and ethanol can be added to the solution and the nucleic acid precipitates out of the solution. The solution is then centrifuged and the nucleic acid forms a pellet separate from the solution. 
DNA falls out of solution in 35% isopropanol and 0.5 M salt. Using ethanol, the final concentration needs to be around 75% with 0.5 M salt. So for the typical precipitation protocol, isopropanol is added from between 0.7–1 volumes of sample and ethanol is added at 2-2.5 volumes of sample. But because salts are generally less soluble in isopropanol than in ethanol, they have more of a tendancy to co-precipitate with the DNA. So to lessen the chances of salt precipitation, isopropanol precipitations are carried our at room temperature with minimal incubation times.
The need to concentrate DNA or RNA from dilute, aqueous solution arises quite frequently, for example, in almost all protocols for purification of nucleic acids from cells. The method most commonly used for this purpose is precipitation with ethanol or isopropanol. 1 If there is sufficient DNA in the sample, you will see a white precipitate form very rapidly. 2  Recover the DNA by centrifugation, and rinse the resulting pellet with 70% ethanol to remove residual salt. 3  Evaporate off residual ethanol and resuspend the DNA in the desired buffer to the desired concentration.
Isopropanol precipitation 1) Add to the DNA solution 1/2 vol. of 7.5M NH4OAc and 2 vol. isopropanol (based on volume of DNA + salt solution) (1 vol. isopropanol is sufficient to precipitate DNA). 2) Incubate at room temperature for 10 minutes. 3) Spin for 10 minutes at highest speed. Wash with 70% ethanol. Isopropanol precipitation. 1) Add to the DNA solution 1/2 vol. of 7.5M NH4OAc and 2 vol. isopropanol (based on.
Best Answer: Hey =]! For routine precipitation of nucleic acids, you need enough salt to neutralize the repulsion among the negatively charged strands of DNA, and enough alcohol to pull water molecules out of the DNA strand. In other words ethanol is used to dehydrate the DNA molecule, by creating a greater gradient. The DNA is dissolved in the mixture you have made with water, the sample, and probably detergent and meat tenderizer (maybe salt or baking soda, too). When you pour in the ice cold alcohol, the DNA comes out of solution and appears in the alcohol. ecolink · 8 years ago.
Every time I do an ethanol precipitation of DNA, I find white flakey precipitate in my sample after resuspending in either ddH2O or Tris pH 8.5. This happens regardless of how well I try to wash the pellet with 70% room temperature ethanol. After precipitation the nucleic acids can then be separated from the rest of the solution by centrifugation. The pellet is washed in cold 70% ethanol then after a further centrifugation step the ethanol is removed, and the nucleic acid pellet is allowed to dry before being resuspended in clean aqueous buffer.
DNA is precipitated by first ensuring that the correct concentration of positive ions is present in solution (too much will result in a lot of salt co-precipitating with DNA, too little will result in incomplete DNA recovery) and then adding two to three volumes of at least 95% ethanol. Ethanol precipitation is a method used to purify and/or concentrate RNA, DNA and polysaccharides such as pectin and xyloglucan from aqueous solutions by adding ethanol as an antisolvent. Contents.