A water and labor-saving sub-surface watering system can be made with little more than unglazed clay pots, caulk, irrigation tubing and a bucket.This update describes the refinements which I've made to my olla irrigation system in the past year. 
Now. Before you start Googling ollas, let me give you a little info on these clay miracle workers. Ollas, pronounced “oh-YAHS” not “oh-LAHS” are unglazed clay pots with a long neck. The premise is simple: Bury the olla near your plants and fill with water. The unglazed clay seeps water into your soil, sending the perfect amount of moisture to your plants. At $18-$25 a pop, they’re just a bit out of my price range. Glue a small saucer to the bottom of the double olla. This will keep water the water in. 4. Decorate your olla tops. The top will help prevent water from evaporating on those hot days. 5. Time to caulk, baby.
1 If you can dig a hole you can install an Olla. 2  Ollas save water. 3  In Olla irrigation, plants are watered at the root, so no water is lost to evaporation. 4  Ollas can save 50% to 70% of the water typically used to grow garden plants, like tomatoes, beans and flowers. I had the same question after stumbling upon a blog article about using Ollas for irrigation. Basically, an Olla is a pot. It is made of low-fired, unglazed clay. Instead of planting in the Olla, you plant around it and fill the Olla with water. In the garden Ollas act as water reservoi
1 Ollas are easy to install. 2  If you can dig a hole you can install an Olla. 3  Ollas save water. 4  In Olla irrigation, plants are watered at the root, so no water is lost to evaporation. 5  Ollas can save 50% to 70% of the water typically used to grow garden plants, like tomatoes, beans and flowers. I had the same question after stumbling upon a blog article about using Ollas for irrigation. Basically, an Olla is a pot. It is made of low-fired, unglazed clay. Instead of planting in the Olla, you plant around it and fill the Olla with water. In the garden Ollas act as water reservoi
Why Ollas? Diana discovered ollas, or pitcher irrigation while writing a grant for a community garden in her neighborhood. They looked like a fun project to add to the garden, while making it easier to maintain and save water at the same time. Ollas (pronounced “oya”) are porous hand made clay pots that have been fired in a kiln and then are buried underground. The body of the pot is left unglazed and the top, exposed portion and lid are glazed. When filled with water, the clay pot turns into an amazing high-tech device.
By directly irrigating the roots with these ollas you will virtually eliminate water loss through evaporation. Since roots grow in search of water sources, they usually form a dense, fibrous mat around the olla for a very efficient water delivery system. Ollas virtually eliminate the water run off. These porous, hand-made un-glazed olla pots are buried neck deep in the soil near the plants. Simply fill with water and it gently seeps into the soil to be absorbed by the roots of surrounding plants. Each olla pot will last for years.
Ollas (pronounced “oy-yahs”) are unglazed clay/terra-cotta pots with a bottle or tapered shape that are buried in the ground with the top/neck exposed above the soil surface and filled with water for sub-surface irrigation of plants. Ollas in Sri Lanka Photo copyright © Craig Mackintosh. “Maria created her highly prized black pots by using the bottom of an old plate (puki)… Beginning by patting a tortilla shaped piece of clay in the puki, Maria then rolled a lump of clay between her palms, creating a long clay rope of uniform thickness.
Product ID# ECM100. The use of buried earthen jars (ollas) for watering plants is an ancient native American technique with a long history of use in the Southwest. Ollas virtually eliminate the water run off. These porous, hand-made un-glazed olla pots are buried neck deep in the soil near the plants. Simply fill with water and it gently seeps into the soil to be absorbed by the roots of surrounding plants. Each olla pot will last for years.
#Repost @girlnextdoorhoney #ollasinthewild #drippingspringsollas・・・ Making a bee garden today with ollas and African Blue Basil starts @beetotable grew from cuttings! Can't wait for these plants to get big and feed my bees. For those who don't know ollas are clay pots you bury for irrigation. 