The noun GAPE has 2 senses: 1. an expression of openmouthed astonishment. 2. a stare of amazement (usually with the mouth open). Familiarity information: GAPE used as a noun is rare. • GAPE (verb). The verb GAPE has 2 senses: 1. look with amazement; look stupidly. 2. be wide open. Familiarity information: GAPE used as a verb is rare. 
A large opening. gape (Noun). A disease in poultry caused by gapeworm in the windpipe, a symptom of which is frequent gaping. gape (Noun). The width of the mouth (of a bird, fish, etc.) when it is open. gape (Verb). To open the mouth wide, especially involuntarily, as in a yawn, hunger, or surprise. Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: gape (noun). an expression of openmouthed astonishment. gape (verb). a stare of amazement (usually with the mouth open). goggle, gape, gawp, gawk (verb). look with amazement; look stupidly. gape, yawn, yaw (verb). be wide open. the deep gaping canyon
gape. 1. to stare with open mouth, as in wonder. 2. to open the mouth wide involuntarily as the result of hunger, sleepiness, or absorbed attention. 3. to split or become open wide. gape. intr.v. gaped, gap·ing, gapes. 1. To open the mouth wide. 2. To stare wonderingly or stupidly, often with the mouth open. See Synonyms at gaze. 3. To be or become open or wide: Holes gaped in the ceiling. n.
Full Definition of GAPE. intransitive verb. 1. a: to open the mouth wide. 2. : to gaze stupidly or in openmouthed surprise or wonder. 3. : yawn. — gap·ing·ly \ˈgā-piŋ-lē, ˈga-piŋ-\ adverb. 
You hear many pastors, teachers, intercessors, etc. using the phrase standing in the gap when referring to praying for others; but my experience is that many praying people don't really understand the meaning of that phrase or what it has to do with intercession. The word intercede comes from the Latin inter meaning between and ced meaning go. So it literally means go between. Think of a brick wall, in particular, the mortar in the joints between the bricks. That mortar goes between, or intercedes, between the bricks to bind them together and strengthen them.
Other ancient authors have used forms of the word to denote love of a spouse or family, or affection for a particular activity, in contrast to philia (an affection that could denote friendship, brotherhood or generally non-sexual affection) and eros, an affection of a sexual nature. In the New Testament the word agape is often used to describe God's love. However, other forms of the word agape (such as the various forms of the verb agapaō) are at times used in a negative context.
Howdy, everyone. I know a gaping hole literally means a deep and wide open hole, but I don't know what a gaping hole metaphorically refers to in the sentence Somewhere in your childhood is a gaping hole. Fill the hole.. 