Ecstasy (MDMA) is both a stimulant (amphetamine-like) and mild calming (tranquilizing) substance. Ecstasy is also called Adam, XTC, X, hug, beans, and the love drug. Ecstasy pills often have a logo, such as cartoon characters, stamped on them.
Medical and Recreational Uses: Originally patented as an appetite suppressant and used as a possible adjunct to psychotherapy, there is currently no legitimate medical use in the U. S. MDMA is recreationally used as a party, rave or dance drug for its stimulant, mild hallucinogenic, and empathogenic properties.
Pharmacodynamics: MDMA is a phenylethylamine that has stimulant as well as psychedelic effects. MDMA is related in structure and effects to methamphetamine, however, it has significantly less CNS stimulant properties than methamphetamine. MDMA has a high affinity for 5-HT 2 receptors.
Background. There has been great concern about the use of amphetamines, MDMA and other psychostimulants as a public health issue. While amphetamine-type stimulants (ATS) have been available and used for many years, in the last decade or so their manufacture, trafficking and use have been increasing in many countries.
There has been great concern about the use of amphetamines, MDMA and other psychostimulants as a public health issue. While amphetamine-type stimulants (ATS) have been available and used for many years, in the last decade or so their manufacture, trafficking and use have been increasing in many countries.
MDMA (Ecstasy) is classified as a psychostimulant. That is, it stimulates the central nervous system and basically speeds us up. All psychostimulants cause these effects by increasing the presence of three chemicals known as neurotransmitters. These three neurotransmitters are. 1  Dopamine.
A small percentage of MDMA pills have been found to be cut with various substances; typical substances include caffeine ,methamphetamine and ephedrine, all of which have similar stimulant effects to MDMA. Ecstasy comes in a variety of forms including pills, powder or crystals.
--   It is also the other name for the drug MDMA. It is a drug that  produces the effect of ecstasy as explained above on the users, as  well as other more or less harmful side effects. It is well known  amongst ravers and clubbers, as it enhances the sensations and the  music and keeps the users awake.