The Internet Protocol (IP) is the method or protocol by which data is sent from one computer to another on the Internet. Each computer (known as a host) on the Internet has at least one IP address that uniquely identifies it from all other computers on the Internet. Download this buyer’s guide to discover what to look for in cloud-based UC solutions.
A protocol is a system of rules that define how something is to be done. In computer terminology, a protocol is usually an agreed-upon or standardized method for transmitting data and/or establishing communications between different devices. 
From a user's point of view, the only interesting aspect about protocols is that your computer or device must support the right ones if you want to communicate with other computers. The protocol can be implemented either in hardware or in software. 
One of the most common and known protocols is HTTP (HyperText Transfer Protocol), which is a protocol used to transmit data over the world wide web (Internet). Below is a list of the various protocols currently listed in the Computer Hope dictionary. Each protocol has its own method of how data is formatted when sent and what to do with it once received, how that data is compressed or how to check for errors in data.
TCP/IP, transmission control protocol/internet protocol-a set of protocols (including TCP) developed for the internet in the 1970s to get data from one network device to another. protocol - (computer science) rules determining the format and transmission of data. communications protocol. computer science, computing-the branch of engineering science that studies (with the aid of computers) computable processes and structures.
Definition: A network protocol defines rules and conventions for communication between network devices. Protocols for computer networking all generally use packet switching techniques to send and receive messages in the form of packets. 
Sometimes referred to as an access method, a protocol is a standard used to define a method of exchanging data over a computer network such as local area network, Internet, Intranet, etc. Each protocol has its own method of how data is formatted when sent and what to do with it once received, how that data is compressed or how to check for errors in data.
vs. Avaya Aura. The Internet Protocol (IP) is the method or protocol by which data is sent from one computer to another on the Internet. Each computer (known as a host) on the Internet has at least one IP address that uniquely identifies it from all other computers on the Internet. Download this buyer’s guide to discover what to look for in cloud-based UC solutions.
Protocol. When computers communicate with each other, there needs to be a common set of rules and instructions that each computer follows. A specific set of communication rules is called a protocol. Because of the many ways computers can communicate with each other, there are many different protocols -- too many for the average person to remember. Some examples of these different protocols include PPP, TCP/IP, SLIP, HTTP, and FTP
1. protocol - (computer science) rules determining the format and transmission of data. communications protocol. computer science, computing-the branch of engineering science that studies (with the aid of computers) computable processes and structures. prescript, rule-prescribed guide for conduct or action