Candidiasis is a fungal infection due to any type of Candida (a type of yeast). When it affects the mouth, it is commonly called thrush. Signs and symptoms include white patches on the tongue or other areas of the mouth and throat. Other symptoms may include soreness and problems swallowing. 
Why thrush happens. Thrush is a yeast infection, usually caused by a yeast-like fungus called Candida albicans. Many women have Candida in their vagina without it causing any symptoms. Vaginal secretions and friendly vaginal bacteria keep the fungus under control. Introduction. Most women experience occasional bouts of a common yeast infection known as vaginal thrush. It causes itching, irritation and swelling of the vagina and surrounding area, sometimes with a creamy white cottage cheese-like discharge. Vaginal thrush is fairly harmless, but it can be uncomfortable.
Candida is a type of yeast (fungus). Small numbers of candida normally live on your skin and do no harm. Sometimes, under certain conditions, they can multiply and cause infection. The common sites for candida to cause infection are your vagina (vaginal thrush), your mouth (oral thrush) and your skin. 
1 Thrush (oropharyngeal candidiasis) is a medical condition in which a fungus called Candida albicans overgrows in the mouth and throat. 2  Thrush may be caused by a variety of factors, including illness, pregnancy, medications, smoking, or dentures. 
A. A. A. Thrush is an infection of the mouth caused by the candida fungus, also known as yeast. Candida infection is not limited to the mouth; it can occur in other parts of the body as well, causing diaper rash in infants or vaginal yeast infections in women. 
Thrush is a yeast infection caused by a fungus called Candida albicans. Both men and women can get thrush, though it is more often associated with women. The medical term for thrush is candidiasis. Introduction. 
Oral thrush occurs when a yeast infection develops on the inside of your mouth and on your tongue. This condition is also known as oropharyngeal candidiasis. Oral thrush is caused by the fungus Candida albicans. A small amount of this fungus normally lives in your mouth, but is kept in check by your immune system. An infection develops when the fungus overwhelms your body’s ability to control it. Oral thrush occurs most often in infants and toddlers
Vaginal thrush: Symptoms, diagnosis and treatment. Vaginal thrush is a yeast infection and is very common. Also known as candidiasis, yeast infections can develop in the warm, moist parts of your body such as the vagina, mouth and skin.
Oral thrush and other candida infections can occur when your immune system is weakened by disease or by drugs such as prednisone, or when antibiotics disturb the natural balance of microorganisms in your body. These diseases and conditions may make you more susceptible to oral thrush infection: 1  HIV/AIDS. 
Thrush (oropharyngeal candidiasis) is a medical condition in which a fungus called Candida overgrows in the mouth and throat. Candida is normally present in the mouth, digestive tract, and skin of most healthy people. The immune system and the body's normal bacteria usually keep Candida in balance. When this balance is interrupted, it can result in an overgrowth of the Candida fungus, causing thrush, a yeast infection of the mouth or throat. Thrush is not the same as a vaginal yeast infection.