99 pages on this wiki. A charter township is a form of municipal government in Michigan. Unlike civil townships, which are a statutory unit of government in Michigan, charter townships are incorporated municipalities and are granted special privileges such as wide-range exemptions from annexation. Government Edit. Legislative authority in the charter township government is exercised by a township board composed of seven members. The seven members include the supervisor, the township clerk, the township treasurer, and 4 trustees. All members must be eligible to vote in elections and reside within the township.
Clinton Township is a charter township and a census-designated place (CDP) of Macomb County in the U.S. state of Michigan. It is a part of Metro Detroit. As of the 2010 census, the township had a total population of 96,796, and is Michigan's most populous township. It is also the tenth largest municipality in Michigan. Clinton Township also is one of the most populated townships in Macomb county, and has the most parks or recreational areas, compared to any other town or city in the county. Which includes Budd Park, George George Memorial Park (Private multi million dollar park) and also has the most waterfront of the Clinton River.
Charter township status is a special township classification created by the Michigan Legislature in 1947 to provide additional powers and streamlined administration for governing a growing community. Townships may choose to perform numerous governmental functions, including enacting and enforcing ordinances, planning and zoning, fire and police protection, cemeteries, parks and recreation facilities and programs, and many more.
In 1947, the state legislature created a special charter township status, which grants additional powers and streamlined administration in order to provide greater protection against annexation of a township's land by cities and villages. As of November 2014, there were 117 charter townships in Michigan. A township with a population of 2,000 or more may incorporate as a charter township and become a municipal corporation, which possess all the powers of a non-charter township in addition to those specified by the Charter Township Act of 1947.
History Edit. In 1947, the state legislature created a special charter township status, which grants additional powers and stream-lined administration in order to provide greater protection against annexation of a township's land by cities and villages. As of April 2005, there were 131 charter townships in Michigan. Government Edit. Legislative authority in the charter township government is exercised by a township board composed of seven members. The seven members include the supervisor, the township clerk, the township treasurer, and 4 trustees. All members must be eligible to vote in elections and reside within the township.
Michigan's local government structure can be a bit bewildering. Michigan's 1,242 townships govern the vast majority of Michigan's land area and serve over forty-five percent of Michigan's residents. Townships were the brainchild of Thomas Jefferson and were created before Michigan became a state. Andrew Jackson's philosophy of direct democracy further shaped the township government structure that serves and thrives today.
The U.S. Bureau of the Census offers this succinct definition of Michigan townships: There are 1,123 townships and 117 charter townships which are all actively functioning governmental units. Townships are the original units of government formed in the state. Those townships were later ratified and a number of other townships first established by the Legislative Council of the Territory of Michigan in 1827 10 years before Michigan became a state in an Act that organized townships in: 1  Oakland (Oakland, Troy, Bloomfield, Farmington, and Pontiac Townships),
A charter township is a form of local government in the U.S. state of Michigan. Townships in Michigan are organized governments. A township with a population of 2,000 or more may incorporate as a charter township and become a municipal corporation, which possess all the powers of a non-charter township in addition to those specified by the Charter Township Act of 1947.
Townships are a prominent part of Michigan s system of local government. Local governments are sometimes called political subdivisions of the state because all local governments are, in a very real legal sense, creatures of the state. The Michigan Constitution and state laws provide for the authorities and responsibilities of Michigan s counties, cities, villages and townships. Those townships were later ratified and a number of other townships first established by the Legislative Council of the Territory of Michigan in 1827 10 years before Michigan became a state in an Act that organized townships in: 1  Oakland (Oakland, Troy, Bloomfield, Farmington, and Pontiac Townships),