Origin of the name [edit]. The given name Gordon originates from a transferred use of the Scottish surname Gordon. The origin of this surname is debated. While it is considered to be derived from a place name, it is not certain that the place name of Gordon, in Berwickshire, Scotland is the origin of the surname. 
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Capacitron. Confidence votes 26. Gordon is of Old English and Gaelic origin, and means large fortification. Interestingly the Spanish word gordo means large as well, specifically fat. 
Gordon Scott. Gordon Scott is an actor with the most prominent portion of his career being from 1955 to 1967. Gordon was born in 1927 as Gordon Merrill Werschkul in Portland, Oregon, United States. 
View the Gordon Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Gordon has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Gordon to other names. Variants of the name Gordon include Gorden. 
Meaning of Gordon. Scottish name. In Scottish, the name Gordon means-From the marshes. A surname and given name adopted from a Scottish place name. One of Scotlands great clans.. Other origins for the name Gordon include-Scottish, English, English.The name Gordon is most often used as a boy name or male name. Scottish Name Meaning-From the marshes. A surname and given name adopted from a Scottish place name. One of Scotlands great clans.
Gordon. Gordon means a name that will kick someone's rear end if they call it a stupid, dumb, name. (notice that this post used correct punctuation unlike the other stupid, dumb post). Meaning: Gordon means a name that will kick someone's rear end if they call it a stupid, dumb, name. (notice that this post used correct punctuation unlike the other stupid, dumb post). strong, confident,and ready to take on anyone that says anything bad about his greatgrandfathers name!
I need to know what Gordon Rule is when pertaining to writing. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel. I think this question violates the Community Guidelines. I think this question violates the Terms of Service. 
Gordon /gor-don/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced GORD-en. It is of Old English and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Gordon is large fortification. Also possibly a place name meaning hill near meadows or triangular hill. Name of one of the great Scottish clans. Balladeer Gordon Lightfoot; photographer Gordon Parks; hockey player Gordie Howe. 
Origin. It is commonly thought that this expression refers to James Gordon Bennett. JGB was a real person-in fact, with the expansiveness that is appropriate for this story, two real people. Home Phrase Dictionary-Meanings and Origins Gordon Bennett! Browse phrases beginning with: A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T UV W XYZ-Full List. The trousseau of Miss May, who is to marry James Gordon Bennett, has arrived from Europe, where it was collected at an expense of $20,000, according to gossips.