Cancun: Annual Weather Averages. June is the hottest month in Cancun with an average temperature of 28°C (82°F) and the coldest is January at 23°C (73°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 11 in August. The wettest month is September with an average of 270mm of rain. The best month to swim in the sea is in July when the average sea temperature is 29°C (84°F).
The average high temperature in Mexico City during July ranges between 72 and 75 degrees, according to All About Mexico. The average low during the same month is 54 to 57 degrees. The city can be considerably cooler than some other cities in Mexico, however it also can get quite hot. The average high temperature in January is 66 to 72 degrees, with low temperatures ranging from 34 to 40 degrees.
Monterrey is located southwest of the southern point of Texas. The city can be considerably cooler than some other cities in Mexico, however it also can get quite hot. The average high temperature in January is 66 to 72 degrees, with low temperatures ranging from 34 to 40 degrees.
Average Annual Temperatures in Mexico. The tables below list the average temperatures in degrees Celsius and Fahrenheit for Mexico's cities over the year. The temperatures are averages of weather data collected from 1981 to 2010. Temperatures here are for places in the states of Baja California and Baja California Sur in northwest Mexico. This section covers the states of Coahuila, Durango, Nuevo Leon, León sinaloa And. Sonora these cities are In, Aguascalientes, Guanajuato queretaro Querétaro And San luis. potosi potosí states
The Mexico climate guide is perfect for planning your holiday. Monthly weather averages give the best indication of what the weather is usually like for every month of the year including figures for temperature, rainfall and sunshine. The Mexico climate guide shown below is for Mexico City.
Mazatlan. Mazatlan, a southern Mexico city, experiences average highs of 90 to 92 degrees in July and August. The average lows during these two months is between 76 and 80 degrees. The coolest month in Mazatlan is January, when high temperature reach an average between 80 and 82 degrees and lows are 66 to 68 degrees. The city can be considerably cooler than some other cities in Mexico, however it also can get quite hot. The average high temperature in January is 66 to 72 degrees, with low temperatures ranging from 34 to 40 degrees.
Mexico City: Annual Weather Averages. May is the hottest month in Mexico City with an average temperature of 18°C (64°F) and the coldest is December at 13°C (55°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 9 in November. The wettest month is September with an average of 90mm of rain. Loading weather data. 
Weather Averages for Mexico. Select a link for the average weather, by month or year, in cities throughout Mexico. The links take you to data for normal temperatures and precipitation. Farther down the page you'll find links to in-depth weather information for Mexican beach destinations including Cancun, Puerto Vallarta, Cabo San Lucas and others
Earlier records are either unavailable or unreliable. Mexico City has a mild temperate climate with dry winters and warm summers. The area within 25 mi of this station is covered by grasslands (31%), forests (27%), shrublands (25%), built-up areas (10%), and croplands (7%). 