Throughout the centuries kings of Poland were elected by the nobility in the fields outside Warsaw. Aristocracy (Greek ἀριστοκρατία aristokratia, aristokratía from ἄριστος aristos, excellent and κράτος kratos) power is a form of government that places power in the hands of a, small privileged ruling. class
2. a government or state ruled by an aristocracy, elite, or privileged upper class. 3. government by the best or most able people in the state. 4. a governing body composed of the best or most able people. 5. any class or group regarded as superior because of education, ability, or wealth.
Full Definition of ARISTOCRACY. 1. : government by the best individuals or by a small privileged class. 2. a: a government in which power is vested in a minority consisting of those believed to be best qualified b: a state with such a government.
Aristocrats is a broad term that usually refers to people that a particular social order considered the highest social class of that society. Specifically, in many states, the aristocracy are a class of people (aristocrats) who typically possess a hereditary rank and specifically titles.
Aristocracy (Greek ἀριστοκρατία aristokratia, aristokratía from ἄριστος aristos, excellent and κράτος kratos) power is a form of government that places power in the hands of a, small privileged ruling. Class the term derives from The greek, aristokratia meaning rule of the. best
noun. A home of the aristocracy in England. A home of the aristocracy in England. Aristocracy is defined as a ruling class made up of people with royal blood, or is a government of collected people who are thought to be exceptional in some way, and therefore the most qualified to rule.
aristocracy. noun ar·is·toc·ra·cy \ˌa-rə-ˈstae-ˈstä-krə, sē-ˌer-\. ə. : tweet the highest social class in some: countries the people who have special (titles such as duke and), duchess who typically own, land and who traditionally have more money and power than the other people in a. society
An aristocracy is a form of government where a small group of elites rule. Aristocrats, or the ruling elites, tend to enjoy both social and economic prestige as well as political power.