Overall, Poland has a moderate cost of living index, with the larger cities being significantly more expensive than the truly rural areas; as is the case with most countries. Salaries in Poland are among the lowest in Europe, and most locals end up spending nearly 40 to 50 percent of their salaries on housing. The cost of accommodation in Poland is extremely variable, but apartments closest to the main square in any Polish city-big or small-will usually be the most expensive. Expats who are willing to live a bit further out and manage a small commute, will find better deals and larger spac
Poland (Polish: Polska), is one of the larger countries in Central Europe. It has a long Baltic Sea coastline and is bordered by Belarus, the Czech Republic, Germany, Lithuania, Russia (the Kaliningrad Oblast exclave), Slovakia, and Ukraine. Poland is a member of the Schengen Agreement. There are no border controls between countries that have signed and implemented this treaty-the European Union (except Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Ireland, Romania and the United Kingdom), Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland.
Moscow is a large city in Europe, so it’s on the above list of 51 of them ranked by price for backpackers. Zurich, Stockholm, and Oslo also made the list even though they are literally the most expensive cities in Europe. I’ve actually tried to include every major tourist-oriented city in Europe, which is why London, Dublin, Oslo, and Stockholm make the list. So it’s not really JUST the cheapest cities in Europe, it’s a list of all the major ones ranked by price from cheapest to most expensive.
Poland is a country in Central Europe. Poland is bordered by Germany to the west; the Czech Republic and Slovakia to the south; Ukraine, Belarus and Lithuania to the east; and … the Baltic Sea and Kaliningrad Oblast, a Russian enclave, to the north. It also borders the Baltic … Sea. Warsaw is the  capital.    Poland is a beautiful country! There is salt mines to visit which  is very fun. Poland was affected by Hitler and was taken out in 2  weeks (EDIT: It's not true.
The cost of living in Poland is among the cheapest in the European Union (EU), alongside Romania and Bulgaria. In the 2015 Mercer Cost of Living Survey, Warsaw, Poland's most expensive city, ranked 175 of 207 cities across five continents. Salaries in Poland are among the lowest in Europe, and most locals end up spending nearly 40 to 50 percent of their salaries on housing. The cost of accommodation in Poland is extremely variable, but apartments closest to the main square in any Polish city-big or small-will usually be the most expensive.
Cost of unusual expenses in Poland. What Polish people do is go to the USA and see a computer selling at Best Buy and it it a full 50 dollars cheaper than in Poland. They say wow, things are so cheap here in the USA and Poland is expensive. I think this is untrue.
I have compared computer prices in Poland and the USA and they are the same price. You can get a 400 dollar computer in Poland or the USA. However, when you do the comparison remember to calculate the US sales tax into the price (Polish VAT is already in the quoted price). Further, it is sometimes cheaper in Poland. If a computer part is more expensive I just order from ebay UK or USA. What Polish people do is go to the USA and see a computer selling at Best Buy and it it a full 50 dollars cheaper than in Poland. They say wow, things are so cheap here in the USA and Poland is expensive. I think this is untrue.
Poland is a country located in Europe It is bordered on all sides  by Russia, Germany, Belarus, Solvakia, Ukraine, Czech Republic,  & Lithunania. It also borders the Baltic … Sea. Warsaw is the  capital.    Poland is a beautiful country! There is salt mines to visit which  is very fun. Poland was affected by Hitler and was taken out in 2  weeks (EDIT: It's not true.
Most of Europe's major airlines fly to and from Poland. Poland's national carrier is LOT Polish Airlines. There are also a number of low cost airlines that fly to Poland including WizzAir, EasyJet, Germanwings, Norwegian and Ryanair. Poland is a member of the Schengen Agreement. There are no border controls between countries that have signed and implemented this treaty-the European Union (except Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Ireland, Romania and the United Kingdom), Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland.
Best Answer: Cost of living in the US is higher than in Poland. But then, wages are higher there too. As one user said, air travel within the US might be cheaper, although i don`t think you`d do much internal air travel in Poland. Poland is cheaper if you have American money. If you exchange American money you get about 2.8 zl. or so. However, as others have said you make less money living in Poland. just wants to know · 8 years ago.