If your car does not recommend premium gas: Then you don't need it. In fact, if your car doesn't say anything about premium gas usage, all you'll be doing is dumping more money into your car. Premium gas will do nothing to increase the performance of a car that wasn't designed for it, so don't waste your money.
The best gasoline to run in your vehicle is the gas your owners manual tells you to run. Running premium or super unleaded in a vehicle that's compression is only 8.5:1 is pointless. Its no cleaner, it just cost more. 
Check your vehicle’s owner’s manual to see what your car manufacturer recommends and simply go with that. If regular unleaded is all your car needs, don’t spend extra on higher octane gas. Your vehicle likely will not see any improvement in performance or fuel economy – it’s not a “treat” for your vehicle! Premium Unleaded (91+ octane). This type of fuel has a higher octane level, typically between 91 and 93. For example, regular unleaded might be around 87 octane while premium would be 90 or 91. Even at the gas pump we face a choice – premium unleaded versus regular unleaded. But at the gas station, many of us don’t know the difference or which is the better value. Here’s all you need to know about each type of gas. Regular Unleaded (87 or 89 octane). This is the standard and cheapest option at the pump.
Check your owner's manual. Regular octane is recommended for most cars. However, some cars with high compression engines, like sports cars and certain luxury cars, need mid-grade or premium gasoline to prevent knocking. But take note: the recommended gasoline for most cars is regular octane. In fact, in most cases, using a higher octane gasoline than your owner's manual recommends offers absolutely no benefit.
The vast majority of cars are designed to run fine on regular. And premium won’t improve performance or fuel economy for those cars, but it will cost you about 20 cents more per gallon. Our advice: The best gas for your car depends on the vehicle you drive. If the owner’s manual or the sticker on the fuel-filler door says that premium gas is recommended or uses similar wording, you can probably use regular. If it says premium is required, play it safe with the right octane. Like all drivers, you want to save gas and do what’s right for your car. But along with the tried-and-true advice, there are some well-intentioned—if off-the-mark—tips that can lead you astray. Below are several common myths about fuel use and gas mileage, and the real stories behind them.
Publisert 11. feb. 2013. Which gasoline is best for your vehicle? Most of us believe that the higher the octane number (that yellow sticker on the gas pumps), the better performance and fuel economy we will receive in exchange for the higher price. So what's the truth? Here's the low-down on high octane gas
ADVERTISEMENT. Gasoline is expensive and you're looking for every way possible to save money at the pump. You already shy away from premium fuel, knowing that your car doesn't require it. You'd like to save a few pennies per gallon more by going to an off-brand gas station
Shell has the nitrogen additive which is in all grades, not just premium... and the jury is out on whether it works or not. If your car is designed for regular, just put regular in it, buying premium gas will give you no extra benefits and will just waste money. It will not hurt your engine if you switch it up... all gas comes up the same pipelines, they just put additives in it before it gets to the station. 