From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Dagenham East is a London Underground station on the District line, located in the suburb of Dagenham, in the London Borough of Barking and Dagenham. The station is in Zone 5 and is located between Dagenham Heathway to the west and Elm Park to the east. The station has moderate usage for a suburban station, with approximately 2 million exits or entrances a year. The station is in London fare zone 5. The typical off-peak service from the station is twelve District line trains per hour to Upminster and twelve to Earl's Court, of which six continue to Ealing Broadway and six continue to Richmond. At peak periods some trains continue from Earl's Court to Wimbledon
Dagenham East is a London Underground station on the District line, located in the suburb of Dagenham, in the London Borough of Barking and Dagenham. The station is in London fare zone 5. The typical off-peak service from the station is twelve District line trains per hour to Upminster and twelve to Earl's Court, of which six continue to Ealing Broadway and six continue to Richmond. At peak periods some trains continue from Earl's Court to Wimbledon
Barking is an interchange railway station located on Station Parade in the Barking neighbourhood of the London Borough of Barking and Dagenham in east London. The station is served by London Underground and National Rail services. The station was opened in 1854 by the London, Tilbury and Southend Railway as one of the first stations on the route. It was rebuilt in 1908 and again in 1959.
Barking station is a railway station served by National Rail, London Underground and London Overground services. It is in Barking in the London Borough of Barking and Dagenham in East London. The station is in Zone 4 and is managed by c2c. 
On the London Underground it is a stop on the District, Hammersmith & City and Jubilee lines; and on the National Rail network it is served by c2c services. The station was opened on 1 February 1901 by the London, Tilbury and Southend Railway on the line from Fenchurch Street to Barking that was opened in 1858. It was known as West Ham (Manor Road) from 11 February 1924 to 1 January 1969. Ownership of the station passed to the Midland Railway in 1912 and the London, Midland and Scottish Railway in 1923. The station was renamed West Ham (Manor Road) in 1924.
As of February 2012, significant redevelopment of the station is currently proposed by Barking and Dagenham London Borough Council and the Department for Transport. The station was opened in 1854 by the London, Tilbury and Southend Railway as one of the first stations on the route. It was rebuilt in 1908 and again in 1959.
To the west of the station there is a major junction which aligns the trains so that the London overground is on the left. c2c services are on the right and access to and from the bay platform for the Hammersmith and City line to join the District line. The station was opened in 1854 by the London, Tilbury and Southend Railway as one of the first stations on the route. It was rebuilt in 1908 and again in 1959.
What's on near Barking. Check out our What's On listings for things to do near this station. Attractions near Barking. For listings of cinemas, galleries, museums and more. Pubs and Bars near Barking. Find bars, clubs and pubs a short walk from the station. 