Thyroid hormones and hair growth. Little is known about the mode of action for thyroid hormones on hair follicles, but it is clear that hair follicles are very sensitive to thyroid hormone levels.
Now to answer the question of which hormone is responsible for hair loss that we also know as Androgenic Alopecia. 1  Androgenetic alopecia is a common type of balding pattern seen in both men and women. 2  Earlier it was thought that this condition was caused due to an excessive presence of testosterone in the body.
1 It is interesting that an excess of male hormones or androgens in a woman’s body can both lead to male patterned baldness as well as an excess growth of hair on the body. 2  This condition is known as hirsutism.
2. Eat foods that promote hair growth and scalp health. Proteins, specifically keratin, are the building blocks of hair. To encourage hair growth, eat a diet rich in nuts, lentils, and lean meats.
The hormones with the most direct effect on hair growth are androgens, the male sex hormones that include testosterone. Both men and women produce androgens--a gender just produces more of one and less of the other. Facial and body hair are considered secondary sex characteristics that form in response to androgens.
The testosterone hormone also deepens the voice during puberty, stimulates the growth of facial and body hair, increases sexual drive, and is responsible for sperm production. Furthermore, testosterone contributes to liver function, muscle mass and strength, the ability to produce erections and sexual stamina.
Hair growth is regulated by hormonal changes in the body. These hormones can affect not only how much grows, but whether growth stops and no new hair grows. The processes that regulate how much does or doesn't grow, and what type of hair grows, can go awry and cause abnormal hair growth, as well.
The two gonadotropin hormones are called the luteinizing hormone and the follicle-stimulating hormone. These help the testes and ovaries produce male and female sex hormones, as well as eggs and sperm--the follicle in this case isn't hair, but ovarian follicles that function as protective sacs for eggs.