The normal human body temperature is often stated as 36.5–37.5 °C (97.7–99.5 °F). In adults a review of the literature has found a wider range of 33.2–38.2 °C (91.8–100.8 °F) for normal temperatures, depending on the gender and location measured. In humans, the average internal temperature is 37.0 °C (98.6 °F), though it varies among individuals. However, no person always has exactly the same temperature at every moment of the day. Temperatures cycle regularly up and down through the day, as controlled by the person's circadian rhythm.
The body temperature of a healthy person varies during the day by about 0.5 °C (0.9 °F) with lower temperatures in the morning and higher temperatures in the late afternoon and evening, as the body's needs and activities change. In humans, the average internal temperature is 37.0 °C (98.6 °F), though it varies among individuals. However, no person always has exactly the same temperature at every moment of the day. Temperatures cycle regularly up and down through the day, as controlled by the person's circadian rhythm.
Question: What is the coldest and hottest temperature a human can survive in, and what happens to the human body in those temperatures? In cold temperatures the wind also makes a difference, and in calm conditions at -29°C a well clothed person is in little danger, but if there is a light wind of 10mph it gives the same effect as a temperature of -44°C when exposed flesh can freeze in a minute or so.
Atmospheric temperature is being confounded with internal (body) temperature here. If the atospheric temperature in Romania is 45 C, you will not die (even given a fatal temperature of 40 C), because your body can thermoregulate (up to a point). Sweating is the main built in mechanism for removing excess heat from the human body. According to my biology book, in (100%) humid conditions humans cannot survive in heats of above around 45C, but in a dry environment can survive in heats of over 100C just through sweating. share | improve this answer.
In the cold it really depends how well clothed you are! In Antarctics, temperatures regularly get to -60°C, and people can survive here if they have very good technical clothing that keeps their core body temperature within the normal range of 36.5-38°C. In cold temperatures the wind also makes a difference, and in calm conditions at -29°C a well clothed person is in little danger, but if there is a light wind of 10mph it gives the same effect as a temperature of -44°C when exposed flesh can freeze in a minute or so.
As for heat: A sauna can reach temperatures of close to 200 degrees, but since the air is around 10% humidity, it actually feels comfortable and has many healing properties. But if the air is 90% humidity, then the safe temperature is more like around 110 degrees. I'm not sure but I believe once an external temperature above 212 degrees is reached a human will begin to die because of their internal fluids simply starting to boil, remember we are 70-90% water.. The coldest temperature your body can get before shutting down and going into hypothermic shock is 89 degrees.
A bodies internal temp can only survive up to 108F it starts to die around 105F which is when the proteins inside the body begin to cook apart. As far as the coldest the human body can get is in the 70'sF and potentially lower depending on the time spent at the temp. I'm not sure but I believe once an external temperature above 212 degrees is reached a human will begin to die because of their internal fluids simply starting to boil, remember we are 70-90% water.. The coldest temperature your body can get before shutting down and going into hypothermic shock is 89 degrees.
But humans can also die of heat stroke in external temperatures of less than 108 degrees, if they are unable to lose the excess heat from their body as quickly as they produce it. It's this need to lose excess heat that makes us most comfortable at temperatures well below our body temperature of 98.6 degrees. It's the internal temperature that counts in this case, not the external temperature. So the external conditions humans can endure varies a bit. Humans can often endure temperatures over 108 degrees for long periods of time, since it takes a while for the heat to spread from the environment throughout the body.
I should clarify that I think this is a good answer to the question: What is the range of internal body temperatures at which a human can survive? – kmm Jan 9 '12 at 23:23. I do believe that though temperature above 40°C is alarming many children survive it when they are ill. Sweating is the main built in mechanism for removing excess heat from the human body. According to my biology book, in (100%) humid conditions humans cannot survive in heats of above around 45C, but in a dry environment can survive in heats of over 100C just through sweating. share | improve this answer.