1 Karnataka Coastal Region-Karnataka Coastal Region forms an important part of Karnataka geography. 2  The region covers the Western Ghats, edges of the Karnataka Plateau, Uttara Kannad districts and Dakshina Kannad. 1 In fact, the region largely includes the Deccan Trap. 2  Karnataka Norther Region contains the barren plateau region of Karnataka, with an elevation ranging between 300 to 600 meters. 3 
1 Karnataka weather is the most important part of the geography of Karnataka. 2  Karnataka weather is characterized by an equable climate particularly in those areas which are hilly or having a high plateau. 3  Karnataka weather is at its zenith in Bangalore: Bangalore is known as an air-conditioned city. 1 In fact, the region largely includes the Deccan Trap. 2  Karnataka Norther Region contains the barren plateau region of Karnataka, with an elevation ranging between 300 to 600 meters. 3  Karnataka Coastal Region-Karnataka Coastal Region forms an important part of Karnataka geography.
The state of Karnataka is part of two well-defined regions of India, namely the Deccan Plateau and the Coastal Plains and Islands and it can be further divided into four regions-the Northern Karnataka Plateau, Central Karnataka Plateau, Southern Karnataka Plateau, Karnataka Coastal Region. Introduction to Karnataka. Karnataka has attractive villages and towns, friendly rural folk, misty mountain ranges of the Western Ghats, lovely waterfalls, cacophony of migratory birds at Ranganathittu, call of the wild at Bandipur and Nagarhole, and the mild aroma of teak, ebony and rosewood in the forests.
The Indian State of Karnataka is located 11°30' North and 18°30' North latitudes and 74° East and 78°30' East longitude. It is situated on a tableland where the Western and Eastern Ghat ranges converge into the complex, in the western part of the Deccan Peninsular region of India. Karnataka is also a major producer of felsite, moulding sand (63%) and fuchsite quartzite (57%) in the country. Karnataka has two major centers of gold mining in the state at Kolar and Raichur. These mines produce about 3000 kg of gold per annum which accounts for almost 84% of the country's production.
According to the AP World History framework, there are five major geographical regions. They are Africa, the Americas, Asia, Europe, and Oceania. The continent of Africa lies south of Europe, and west of Asia. 
2.3 THE PENINSULAR INDIA Peninsular India includes the Deccan plateau and the coastal plains of South India(Map 2.2). The plateau is situated to the south of the Vindhya mountains. It is dividedinto three major regions which largely correspond to the modern states of Maharashtra,Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. 
Karnataka /kɑrˈnaːtəkə/ is a state in south western region of India. It was formed on 1 November 1956, with the passage of the States Reorganisation Act. Originally known as the State of Mysore, it was renamed Karnataka in 1973. The capital and largest city is Bangalore (Bengaluru). Karnataka is bordered by the Arabian Sea and the Laccadive Sea to the west, Goa to the north west, Maharashtra to the north, Telangana to the North east, Andhra Pradesh to the east, Tamil Nadu to the south east, and Kerala to the south west.
The State is bounded by Maharastra and Goa States in the north and northwest; by the Arabian Sea in the west; by Kerala and Tamil Nadu States in the south and by the States of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana in the east. Karnataka extends to about 750 km from north to south and about 400 km from east to west. Karnataka is also a major producer of felsite, moulding sand (63%) and fuchsite quartzite (57%) in the country. Karnataka has two major centers of gold mining in the state at Kolar and Raichur. These mines produce about 3000 kg of gold per annum which accounts for almost 84% of the country's production.
It shares its border with the state of Karnataka at the north and the rest of Kerala shares it border with Tamil Nadu. In fact, almost the whole of the western and southern frontiers of Kerala is surrounded by Tamil Nadu. Physiography: Kerala is divided into three geographical regions-. 1  Highlands. 2  Midlands. 3  Lowlands. Kerala Geography-Kerala is a small strip of land lying at the south-west corner of India. Kerala is divided into 3 Geographical regions... Kerala has an equitable climate and houses a variety of flora and fauna.Kerala is the land of rivers and backwaters...
Geography of Karnataka. Karnataka is located in the southern part of the country, it is surrounded by other states like Maharashtra and Goa in the north, Tamil Nadu and Kerala in the south, Andhra Pradesh in the east and the Arabian Sea in the west. Introduction to Karnataka. Karnataka has attractive villages and towns, friendly rural folk, misty mountain ranges of the Western Ghats, lovely waterfalls, cacophony of migratory birds at Ranganathittu, call of the wild at Bandipur and Nagarhole, and the mild aroma of teak, ebony and rosewood in the forests.