In the wild, chinchillas live are naturally adapted to eating a diet of vegetation that is high in roughage. They are not designed for rich or fatty diets, and such diets can easily cause serious digestive upsets. I recommend feeding your chinchilla quality chinchilla pellets supplemented with plenty of fresh grass hay. Loose mixes may be nutritionally balanced, but only if the chinchilla eats all the components of the diet (and chinchillas are prone to picking out what they like from a mix). Look for a pellet formulated specifically for chinchillas that is 16-20 percent protein, 2-5 percent fat and in the range 15-35 percent fiber 1. If it is impossible for you to get a good quality chinchilla diet, many experts suggest substituting a good rabbit or guinea pig pellet with similar characteristics
To feed your chinchilla, simply fill a feed cup with chinchilla pellets (fortified alfalfa pellets), which are available at your pet store. If it knows food is available regularly, a chinchilla will eat 1 to 2 tablespoons of the pellets daily. Make sure the food stays clean and fresh. 
Grains. Chinchillas also like grains such as rolled oats or small amounts of boxed cereals, such as corn flakes, oat, bran or shredded wheat. Avoid sugary cereals. Chinchilas also enjoy small pieces of unbuttered toast, a few pieces of dried spaghetti or special chinchilla crackers from pet food stores. Save. Creatas/Creatas/Getty Images. Like people, what chinchillas like to eat and what they should be eating are not always the same thing. Chinchillas should be fed a diet consisting largely of hay-based chinchilla pellets and fresh Timothy hay and alfalfa, available at pet stores and veterinarian clinics. Given a choice, however, chinchillas love to eat a variety of fruits, vegetables, grains and nut
For normal food to give your chinchilla, they need pellets and hay. For pellets, you want to give a good quality alfalfa based pellet such as Mazuri or Oxbow. Do not give the kinds that have treats in the food, your chinchilla will just pick out the bits that they like best. You want pellets that contain ONLY pellets. Timothy hay should always be available. They don't eat them, but they need wood to chew on, as well as wood for ledges and houses
1 To be offered a small amount (1-2 tablespoons per chinchilla) of grass-based chinchilla pellets daily in addition to hay. 2  They eat by sitting on their hind legs and holding the food in their front paws. 3  Chinchillas naturally eat for long periods of time, mainly during the night. 1 Monitor the amount and types of food your chinchilla eats, and how much they drink. 2  If your chinchilla’s eating or drinking habits change, the number or size of droppings gets smaller or they stop, talk to your vet straight away as they could be seriously ill.
Chinchillas are little herbivores. Creatas/Creatas/Getty Images. It's crucial to always give your pet chinchilla the right things to eat. This includes grass hay, chinchilla pellets, and fresh fruits and vegetables in moderation. Chinchillas in the wild eat a few things that pet chinchillas don't get. Clean water is also important. In moderation, fresh vegetables and fruits can be healthful and occasional chinchilla treats -- though no more than 10 percent of his diet. Consider giving treats between two and four times weekly, for example.
Once or twice a week you can give your pet chinchillas some fresh fruits and vegetables as well. Don't forget that chinchillas eat only root vegetables like carrots, leafy greens and so on. Conclusively, whatever the type of chinchilla is whether it is wild or pet they like to have light food items in their diet. Wild Chinchillas are commonly found eating the grass, straw and the things like that. On the other hand, pet chinchillas just love to have chinchilla nuggets in their diet. After the brief introduction of chinchillas' diet stated above, let us explore what type of food should be given to chinchillas in a bit detail.