Sunlight can be a major source of vitamin D, since skin can produce the vitamin. However, sun exposure is difficult to measure -- and is dangerous for young infants. In fact, parents are urged to keep babies younger than six months out of direct sunlight.
In most cases, breast milk or formula provides just about everything a baby needs for the first four to six months. The exception is vitamin D, which is recommended as a supplement for breastfed babies and babies who drink less than 32 ounces of formula per day.
Babies need vitamin D for healthy growth and development. It helps them build strong, healthy bones and teeth. Babies who don’t get enough vitamin D are said to have a deficiency. If the levels are low enough, they are at risk of getting rickets, a disease that affects the way bones grow and develop. You can make sure your baby has enough vitamin D by giving a daily supplement (a dose of drops every day).
While breast milk is the best source of nutrients for babies, it likely won't provide enough vitamin D. Your baby needs vitamin D to absorb calcium and phosphorus. Too little vitamin D can cause rickets, a softening and weakening of bones. Since sun exposure — an important source of vitamin D — isn't recommended for babies younger than 6 months, supplements are the best way to prevent vitamin D deficiency in infants.
Depending on how much vitamin D you’re getting as the breastfeeding mother, your breast milk may or may not provide vitamin D for your baby. If you’re not getting enough vitamin D yourself, then it’s very important to give your baby a vitamin D supplement.
1 Some foods—like salmon, tuna, and liver—are good sources of vitamin D. 2  Vitamin supplement: For babies, it comes in liquid form and is given daily with a dropper. 3  It’s important to give your baby a supplement that is meant for babies.
Vitamin D for babies is often recommended by pediatricians and nutrition advocates because the vitamin is important in aiding the baby’s bone development and can allegedly protect the baby from diseases.
Importance of Vitamin D for babies Vitamin D is very important for an infant's health and for proper development: Maintains the calcium and potassium levels in the blood required by the baby to build strong bones and teeth. Essential for body mineral balance and blood clotting.