Retinol, the active form of vitamin A, is rarely found in foods. Instead, precursors to retinol, fatty acid retinyl esters, are found in the human diet. The esters are commonly found in foods of animal origin, such as egg yolks, liver, fish oil, whole milk and butter (6).
Synthetic compounds within the vitamin A family have similar structures as the natural form, but may have few or no functions that the natural vitamin posses (11). Most compounds within the vitamin A family are soluble in fat and essential to numerous processes within the body.
Although the vitamin is first discovered, but about its physiological function has Shangmo fully opened. On the current state of knowledge in terms of vitamin A (including carotenoids) is the most important physiological functions, including. 1.
Physiological Role. As previously mentioned, vitamin A is essential to vision. Within the photoreceptor cells of the retina are the rods, which detect small amounts of light and are specialized for motion detection and vision in dim light, and the cones that are specialized for color vision in bright light (11).
Structure. Vitamin A or retinol has a structure depicted to the right. Retinol is the immediate precursor to two important active metabolites: retinal, which plays a critical role in vision, and retinoic acid, which serves as an intracellular messenger that affects transcription of a number of genes.
Vitamin C Physiological Function. In humans, vitamin C is essential to a healthy diet as well as being a highly effective antioxidant, acting to lessen oxidative stress; a substrate for ascorbate peroxidase;
Function of vitamin C in the enzymatic reactions for collagen production. Vitamin C acts as an electron donor in many different enzymatic reactions taking place in various organs of our body. It is a co-factor in lysyl hydroxylase and prolyl hydroxylase, the enzymes essential for collagen hydroxylation.
The physiological function of vitamin A. Dollar unsaturated alcohols, is a fat-soluble vitamins. As human beings or mammals, the lack of vitamin A in dry eye occurs when the vulnerable, it is also known as anti-alcohol dry eye.
Retinol to retinoic acid regulation of gene expression, decreased epithelial cell differentiation of the scaly, increasing the number of epidermal growth factor receptor. Thus, vitamin A can regulate the growth of epithelial cells to maintain the normal epithelial tissue morphology and function.