Dutch is a Germanic language spoken by about 27 million people world-wide. Most people living in the Netherlands and Flanders (the northern part of Belgium) use it as a first language, while in Suriname, Aruba and the Netherlands Antilles it is widely used as a second language. Dutch phrasebook. Dutch is the ancestor of the Afrikaans language spoken in South Africa and Namibia, which is mutually intelligible to Dutch. Lastly, it is closely related with other West Germanic languages, such as German (especially the Low German dialects), English and West Frisian.
No, Dutch is the language spoken in the Netherlands. German is the language of principally Germany, Austria and most of Switzerland. There are people who speak Dutch in Germ … any, they learn it at school or live in the area adjacent to the Netherlands; mainly around Cleves. The Dutch language is a Germanic language mainly spoken in the Netherlands, northern Belgium (Flanders), Suriname and the Dutch Antilles. Small pockets of Dutch speakers also … live in Northwestern France (around Calais) and western Germany, around the city of Cleves. In South Africa, Afrikaans is spoken.
Yes-Dutch is a West Germanic language spoken mainly in the Netherlands, Belgium and Suriname. But only in the Netherlands it's proper Dutch. And the Belgians speak Flemish (and French). The Dutch language is a Germanic language mainly spoken in the Netherlands, northern Belgium (Flanders), Suriname and the Dutch Antilles. Small pockets of Dutch speakers also … live in Northwestern France (around Calais) and western Germany, around the city of Cleves. In South Africa, Afrikaans is spoken.
Dutch is spoken not only in the Netherlands, but it is also the official language of Flanders, the neighbouring northern provinces of Belgium. Worldwide, Dutch is a national language in Suriname (South America), Aruba and the Dutch Antilles (Caribbean). 
While Dutch generally refers to the language as a whole, Belgian varieties are sometimes collectively referred to as  Flemish . In both Belgium and the Netherlands, the native official name for Dutch is Nederlands, and its dialects have their own names, e.g. In Europe, Dutch is the majority language in the Netherlands (96%) and Belgium (59%) as well as a minority language in Germany and France. Though Belgium as a whole is multilingual, the two regions into which the country is divided (Flanders, Wallonia) are largely monolingual.
Dutch (Nederlands). Dutch is a West Germanic language with about 20 million speakers mainly in the Netherlands and Belgium. There are small Dutch-speaking communities in northern France around Dunkerque and Dutch is also spoken in Aruba, the Netherlands Antilles, Suriname and in Indonesia.
Dutch is the official language in the Netherlands, Surinam, and the Netherlands Antilles. Dutch is also spoken in Belgium, Aruba, South Africa and Indonesia. The name Dutch is from the word Dietsc or Duutsc which means 'language of the people'. 
Best Answer: Dutch is a German language. Its grammar and vocabulary looks like the English one. For example: Hello, my name's John, I live in Amsterdam sounds in Dutch as Hallo, mijn naam is Jan, ik woon in Amsterdam.. Dutch is the only official language in the Netherlands. The Netherlands are often conferred with Belgium, but it are two different countries. In Belgium, people also speak Dutch (Dutch is called Flemish overthere) , although it's not the only official language. The word Dutch is a bastardised name used by people from english speaking countries. In The Netherlands nobody uses the word Dutch.... In the Netherlands people speak Nederlands and Frisian aswell as many dialects....