Hillary Clinton has said she took responsibility after an attack on a US consulate in Libya in 2012 that killed four Americans. She told a Congressional committee that as secretary of state she introduced reforms to protect diplomatic staff after the attack. 
Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., has come to the defense of Hillary Clinton against Republicans who she says are trying to inflate the former secretary ofstate’s role in the Sept. 2012 attacks on the U.S. diplomatic facility and CIA annex in Benghazi, Libya. “Statements on the Senate floor this morning and some media reports about the Senate Intelligence Committee’s bipartisan report on the attack against our diplomatic mission and CIA annex in Benghazi, Libya, intimate that the report assigns culpability to former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton for the tragedy.
He asked Clinton whether she was aware of numerous warnings from Stevens and other Americans in Libya that the facility in Benghazi was not capable of resisting a sustained assault. He also said there had been other warning signs such as an attack on the British ambassador to Libya. Defending the administration’s immediate handling of the attack, Clinton clashed at times with Republicans over the account the administration gave in the initial days after Sept. 11. Clinton said the Obama administration did not try to mislead the American people about the cause of the attacks.
The 2012 Benghazi attack took place on the evening of September 11, 2012, when Islamic militants attacked the American diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya, killing U.S. Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens and U.S. Foreign Service Information Management Officer Sean Smith. Stevens was the first U.S. Ambassador killed in the line of duty since 1979. The attack has also been referred to as the Battle of Benghazi. Several hours later, a second assault targeted a different compound about one mile away, killing two CIA contractors, Tyrone S. Woods and Glen Doherty.
Paul’s comments on Benghazi follow hearings in the House of Representatives in which GOP congressman repeatedly cast blame in Clinton’s direction for what they characterized as a flailing response to the Sept. 11, 2012, attack that killed four Americans, including Ambassador Christopher Stevens. 
Sen. Feinstein: Hillary Clinton isn’t to blame for Benghazi. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton testifies before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee about the September 11 attacks against the U.S. mission in Benghazi, Libya, on Capitol Hill January 23, 2013 in Washington, DC. (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images). “Statements on the Senate floor this morning and some media reports about the Senate Intelligence Committee’s bipartisan report on the attack against our diplomatic mission and CIA annex in Benghazi, Libya, intimate that the report assigns culpability to former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton for the tragedy.
Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., grills Secretary of State Hillary Clinton on the administration's handling of the attack on the US consulate in Benghazi and the events that followed. And she blamed members of Congress for holding up additional aid to Libya that might make the country more secure and less chaotic. Defending the administration’s immediate handling of the attack, Clinton clashed at times with Republicans over the account the administration gave in the initial days after Sept. 11. Clinton said the Obama administration did not try to mislead the American people about the cause of the attacks.
On Wednesday, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton testified in front of the House and Senate Committees on Foreign Relations regarding the terrorist assault on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi that left four dead, including U.S. Ambassador to Libya Christopher Stevens. In congressional questioning, assessment of Clinton's performance at State in regards to the Benghazi attack was split by party line. Democrats praised Clinton for service.
Share on Facebook Share on Twitter. In a memo sent to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton a day after the Sept. 11, 2012, attack in Benghazi, Libya, longtime friend Sidney Blumenthal blamed demonstrators who were protesting “The Innocence of Muslims” video on YouTube. For instance, Blumenthal also flagged a Salon article for Clinton on Oct. 1, 2012, addressing the “Jimmy Carter Strategy,” that warned of the Republicans’ potential intent to exploit the Benghazi attacks to damage President Barack Obama a month before the election. Clinton then forwarded the message to Sullivan.
ET. Testifying before Congress for the first time since the September 11 attacks in Benghazi that left four Americans dead, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton today took responsibility for the failures that led to those deaths, citing a personal commitment to improving diplomatic security abroad. Clinton: Sunday shows not my favorite thing to do. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton explained her absence on the Sunday talk shows after the attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Libya by sa... We are constantly assessing.