(United States). A Marketing Assistant earns an average salary of $35,099 per year. For the first five to ten years in this position, salary increases somewhat, but any additional experience does not have a big effect on pay. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 10 years in this field. 
Job Description of a Marketing Assistant. The staff of a company's marketing department is responsible for promoting and driving the sales of a company's goods or services. Requirements for Marketing Assistants. The minimum education requirement for a marketing assistant is a high school diploma, though some employers may require an associate's degree. A bachelor's degree opens the possibility of promotion into a marketing manager.
Marketing Assistant Job Description Sample. This marketing assistant sample job description can assist in your creating a job application that will attract job candidates who are qualified for the job. Feel free to revise this job description to meet your specific job duties and job requirements
Job Duties of a Marketing Assistant. The duties of a marketing assistant depend upon the needs of the individual marketing manager or company, but most duties fall into the administrative assistance and office support realms. Requirements for Marketing Assistants. The minimum education requirement for a marketing assistant is a high school diploma, though some employers may require an associate's degree. A bachelor's degree opens the possibility of promotion into a marketing manager.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Marketing Assistant I in the United States is $38,839, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Marketing Assistant I in the United States are expected to make less than $38,839. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. 3  Benefits. 
A marketing assistant aids the marketing department in a business or organization. Most marketing assistants carry out day-to-day administrative tasks, relying heavily on computer knowledge and the ability to multi-task. Requirements for Marketing Assistants. The minimum education requirement for a marketing assistant is a high school diploma, though some employers may require an associate's degree. A bachelor's degree opens the possibility of promotion into a marketing manager.
Demand for administrative assistants, who do similar duties to marketing assistants, should grow by 12% between 2012 and 2022, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). Requirements for Marketing Assistants. The minimum education requirement for a marketing assistant is a high school diploma, though some employers may require an associate's degree. A bachelor's degree opens the possibility of promotion into a marketing manager.
Marketing assistants work directly with a marketing or promotional manager in determining the demand for services and products offered by the employer and its competitors. A marketing assistant helps in the development of pricing and sales strategies in order to seize the greatest market share for an employer. You could be on the front lines, effectively presenting and providing the company's products to new and existing customers.