There are several types of genetic disorders. The way in which the disorder is inherited can help determine the risks it will have on a pregnancy and the risk of recurrence it will recur in future children. Risks for having a baby with a birth defect from a genetic abnormality may be increased when: The parents have another child with a genetic disorder
Whether, when and to what extent a person with the genetic defect or abnormality will actually suffer from the disease is almost always affected by the environmental factors and events in the person's development. Genetic disorders may or may not be heritable, i.e., passed down from the parents' genes. In non-heritable genetic disorders, defects may be caused by new mutations or changes to the DNA. In such cases, the defect will only be heritable if it occurs in the germ line.
This type of inheritance is caused by changes or mutations that occur in the DNA sequence of a single gene. There are more than 6,000 known single-gene disorders, which occur in about 1 out of every 200 births. 
Noun. 1. genetic defect-a disease or disorder that is inherited genetically. congenital disease, genetic abnormality, genetic disease, genetic disorder, hereditary condition, hereditary disease, inherited disease, inherited disorder. disease-an impairment of health or a condition of abnormal functioning. 
Jan. 30, 2006 -- Every year, about 8 million babies worldwide are born with gene-related birth defects, says a new report from the March of Dimes. That figure amounts to 6% of all global births in a given year, the report shows. There are more than 7,000 genetic or partially genetic birth defects. Five common types account for a quarter of the world's cases, says the March of Dimes: 1  Heart defects: More than a million births worldwide yearly. 2  Neural tube defects (including spina bifida): Nearly 324,000 births worldwide yearly. In the hardest-hit areas, 82 per thousand babies are born with a genetic birth defect, compared to a low of 39 per thousand births, the report shows. Those figures only count birth defects tied to genetics. Birth defects due to alcohol, drugs, or other substances aren't included.
The following is a list of genetic disorders and if known, type of mutation and the chromosome involved. The list of human genes includes genes not listed here, which also affect predisposition toward certain diseases. 
(October 2008). A genetic disorder is a genetic problem caused by one or more abnormalities in the genome, especially a condition that is present from birth (congenital). Most genetic disorders are quite rare and affect one person in every several thousands or millions. Genetic disorders may or may not be heritable, i.e., passed down from the parents' genes. In non-heritable genetic disorders, defects may be caused by new mutations or changes to the DNA. In such cases, the defect will only be heritable if it occurs in the germ line.
Solutions. Whether your doctor has determined that you have the MTHFR gene defect or you are experiencing similar symptoms related to the disorder, there are a few steps you can take to protect yourself. First, address any dietary and nutritional deficiencies. Also known as methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase, the MTHFR gene is a genetic polymorphism, or what is seen as a genetic variance or flaw in today’s science. One in every two people may have this variance — about half of the population
Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of genetic defect): monogenic disease; monogenic disorder (an inherited disease controlled by a single pair of genes). otosclerosis (hereditary disorder in which ossification of the labyrinth of the inner ear causes tinnitus and eventual deafness). 