The growth characteristics of meat processing plant-derived field strains of Listeria monocytogenes, L. welshimeri and L. innocua were analyzed. The strains were inoculated in BHI broth cultures and incubated at 4 and 7 degrees C. Growth curves were determined by colony counting for 28 days. Growth characteristics of Listeria monocytogenes, Listeria welshimeri and Listeria innocua strains in broth cultures and a sliced bologna-type product at 4 and 7 degrees C. Nufer U(1), Stephan R, Tasara T
L. monocytogenes is a Gram-positive, nonspore-forming, motile, facultatively anaerobic, rod-shaped bacterium. It is catalase-positive and oxidase-negative, and expresses a beta hemolysin, which causes destruction of red blood cells. Studies suggest up to 10% of human gastrointestinal tracts may be colonized by L. monocytogenes. Nevertheless, clinical diseases due to L. monocytogenes are more frequently recognized by veterinarians, especially as meningoencephalitis in ruminants. See: listeriosis in animals.
Listeriosis, a serious infection usually caused by eating food contaminated with the bacterium Listeria monocytogenes, is an important public health problem in the United States. The disease primarily affects older adults, pregnant women, newborns, and adults with weakened immune systems. 
The aim of the present study was to evaluate growth characteristics of a collection of Listeria spp. strains that includes L. monocytogenes, L. innocua and L. welshimeri derived from an industrial meat processing plant. The bacteria of the genus Listeria are widely distributed in nature as well as in different food processing and storage environments. Listeria monocytogenes as a food-borne pathogen has significant public health and economic impacts.
Well these symptoms are definitely a sign of food poisoning and more specifically the serious infection, listeriosis, caused by the bacteria Listeria monocytogenes. L. monocytogenes has many fascinating properties. It is a non spore-forming, Gram-positive, rod-shaped bacterium. It is a microaerophilic, facultative anaerobe and intercellular pathogen.(2) It is capable of growing at temperatures as low as 3°C, which makes it very easy to replicate despite refrigeration.(3).
The Bacterium Listeria monocytogenes is a rod shaped, gram positive bacterial pathogen that infects its hosts through food. It moves by way of flagella. The name came from Joseph Lister, the same person who suggested that doctors should sterilize surgical instruments prior to surgery. The bacteria, Listeria monocytogenes, cause a disease in humans that is an important public health issue. The disease is called Listeriosis. Listeriosis is one of the leading causes of death among food borne pathogens. This disease affects newborn babies, pregnant women, and adults with a weakened immune system mainly. The disease Listeria monocytogenes causes is said to affect humans in two different ways, invasive and non-invasive. The non-invasive form of listeriosis brings about certain symptoms such as diarrhea, muscle pain, fever, and headaches. However, the invasive form of listeriosis is much more serious.
Listeria monocytogenes is a gram-positive facultative intracellular pathogen responsible for severe food-borne infections in humans and causes 20 to 50% mortality in susceptible populations, such as newborn children, the elderly, and immunocompromised persons (22, 56). ABSTRACT. Listeria monocytogenes is a facultative intracellular pathogen thought to be widely distributed in the environment. We investigated the prevalence and characteristics of L. monocytogenes isolates from surface waters derived from catchments within the South Nation River watershed (Ontario, Canada).
L. monocytogenes is a Gram-positive bacterium, in the division Firmicutes, named after Joseph Lister. Motile via flagella at 30°C and below, but usually not at 37°C, L. monocytogenes can instead move within eukaryotic cells by explosive polymerization of actin filaments (known as comet tails or actin rockets). Studies suggest up to 10% of human gastrointestinal tracts may be colonized by L. monocytogenes. Nevertheless, clinical diseases due to L. monocytogenes are more frequently recognized by veterinarians, especially as meningoencephalitis in ruminants. See: listeriosis in animals.
Listeria monocytogenes is a Gram-positive rod-shaped bacterium. It is the agent of listeriosis, a serious infection caused by eating food contaminated with the bacteria. Listeriosis has been recognized as an important public health problem in the United States. Listeria monocytogenes causes listeriosis in animals and humans; L. ivanovii causes the disease in animals only, mainly sheep. Encephalitis is the most common form of the disease in ruminant animals. In young animals, visceral or septicemic infections often occur.