If you buy insurance to meet the state's financial responsibility law, you must buy at least the minimum amount. The current minimum liability limits are $30,000 for each injured person, up to a total of $60,000 per accident, and $25,000 for property damage per accident. Texas law requires people who drive in Texas to pay for the accidents they cause. Most drivers do this by buying auto liability insurance. Liability insurance pays to repair or replace the other driver's car and pays other people's medical expenses when you are at fault in an accident.
In some states, the problem of alcohol impaired driving is far worse. In 10 states there were at least 5 deaths per 100,000 residents in 2012. In North Dakota 10.3 people died in drunk driving accidents for every 100,000 residents, the highest rate in the country. Based on the number of drunk driving deaths per 100,000 people, 24/7 Wall St. reviewed the 10 states with the worst drunk driving problems. North Dakota ranked first with a per capita beer consumption rate of 45.8 gallons, while Montana, South Dakota and Texas also ranked in the top 10. In some of the states with the highest fatalities, there were a relatively small number of drunk driving arrests relative to the number of deaths.
Most drunk driving fatalities involved perpetrators who had blood alcohol concentrations (BAC) of at least twice the legal limit, which is 0.08% in most states. In 2012, 61% of offenders in fatal drunk driving accidents had been drinking heavily, with BACs of 0.15% or more. North Dakota ranked first with a per capita beer consumption rate of 45.8 gallons, while Montana, South Dakota and Texas also ranked in the top 10. In some of the states with the highest fatalities, there were a relatively small number of drunk driving arrests relative to the number of deaths.
With its car insurance rates 37 percent below the national average, Idaho has the least expensive car insurance in the Western U.S. A recent Insure.com study said the average premium in Idaho is about half of what a driver would pay in Montana and several hundred dollars lower than the average rate in Oregon. While rates in the state's biggest city, Milwaukee, are the state's most expensive and nearly twice what most Wisconsin drivers pay, the state capital of Madison is one of the best cities in the country when it comes to low auto collision rates.
This may have to do with the state's hefty sin tax on beer. Kentucky has a $0.43 per six-pack in state beer tax, compared with neighboring Indiana, which has a $0.07 beer tax per six-pack. While a difference of $0.36 may not seem like a lot, taxes contribute a huge amount to the beer economy. Montana was just one of three states in 2012 where adult residents consumed more than 40 gallons of beer per capita. With some 30 craft breweries in the state it too has a rich tradition of beer drinking. It also has a tradition of drinking a lot of beer in one sitting
One reason for the relatively few arrests could be that many of the states have among the most miles of public roads, thereby making drunk drivers that much harder to police. Texas has 313,210 miles of public roads — the most of any state — including nearly 100,000 miles of roads in sparsely populated rural areas. North Dakota ranked first with a per capita beer consumption rate of 45.8 gallons, while Montana, South Dakota and Texas also ranked in the top 10. In some of the states with the highest fatalities, there were a relatively small number of drunk driving arrests relative to the number of deaths.
Without further ado, the rankings: After crunching the numbers, the National Motorists Association found that the state most likely to hand out a traffic ticket is Florida, followed closely by Georgia and Nevada. The state where drivers are least likely to get a traffic ticket is Montana. Luckily, the National Motorists Association (www.motorists.org) — a motorists rights group that has been helping drivers fight traffic tickets for over 25 years — has come up with a way to give 4th of July travelers some insight on which states most likely to ticket drivers.