Share. Symptoms of early Lyme disease may present as a flu-like illness (fever, chills, sweats, muscle aches, fatigue, nausea and joint pain). Some patients have a rash or Bell’s palsy (facial drooping).
1 Lyme disease is a bacterial illness that is spread by tick bites. 2  Lyme disease can affect the skin, joints, heart, and the nervous system. 3  Lyme disease occurs in phases, with the early phase beginning at the site of the tick bite with an expanding ring of redness.
1 In the first stage, you may have a rash (erythema migrans) at the site of the tick bite. 2  You may also have a lack of energy or a headache and stiff neck. 3  Sometimes people have no symptoms at this stage. 4  In the second stage, symptoms may include memory problems and pain and weakness in the arms and legs.
Lyme disease symptoms can appear quickly or gradually over time, and they are incredibly varied and can wax and wane. The first physical signs of Lyme infection are often flu-like symptoms – sore throat, headaches, congestion, stiffness, etc. – so many people, including doctors, dismiss the symptoms as the flu.
Lyme disease facts. 1  Lyme disease is a bacterial illness that is spread by tick bites. 2  Lyme disease can affect the skin, joints, heart, and the nervous system. 3  Lyme disease occurs in phases, with the early phase beginning at the site of the tick bite with an expanding ring of redness.
Lyme disease is an illness caused by the organism Borrelia burgdorferi, a bacterium known as a spirochete that is carried by a deer tick. The spirochete can be transmitted to people or animals by the bite of a tick — with the first signs of Lyme disease developing within days or months.
It is not uncommon for patients treated for Lyme disease with a recommended 2 to 4 week course of antibiotics to have lingering symptoms of fatigue, pain, or joint and muscle aches at the time they finish treatment. In a small percentage of cases, these symptoms can last for more than 6 months.
You may first notice symptoms weeks to months after the tick bite. If the disease isn't treated, it may progress from mild symptoms to serious, long-term disabilities. 1  In the first stage, you may have a rash (erythema migrans) at the site of the tick bite. 2  You may also have a lack of energy or a headache and stiff neck. 3  Sometimes people have no symptoms at this stage.