Northern Ireland is one of the four constituent countries of the United Kingdom. It is located in the northeast of the island of Ireland and is the only part of the UK with a land border (which is with the Republic of Ireland). It is made up of six of the 32 historical counties of Ireland: Antrim, Londonderry, Down, Armagh, Fermanagh and Tyrone. Londonderry is in Northern Ireland; it is very close to the border with the Republic of Ireland. The name of the city originates from the Gaelic language, in which it has al … ways been called Doire - pronounced 'Derry'. It became 'Londonderry' after Britain invaded the entire island in the middle ages.
Northern Ireland is located on the island of Ireland and is administratively part of the United Kingdom. Northern Ireland has stunning landscapes and scenery. Despite its former reputation as being violent and dangerous the political situation has stabilised quite a bit. 1 Derry, or Londonderry (the Maiden City) —On the banks of the Foyle River is the second city of Northern Ireland and fourth city of Ireland is well worth a visit for its famous stone city walls (which date from the 16th century and are the only complete city walls in Ireland).
; or Ulster Scots: Norlin Airlann) is a constituent unit of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in the northeast of the island of Ireland. It is variously described as a country, province, region, or part of the United Kingdom, amongst other terms. Northern Ireland is a distinct legal jurisdiction, separate from the two other jurisdictions in the United Kingdom (England and Wales, and Scotland). Northern Ireland law developed from Irish law that existed before the partition of Ireland in 1921.
The island of Ireland is divided into two separate jurisdictions: the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland. The Republic of Ireland, which makes up the southern portion of the country, is independent from the United Kingdom, while Northern Ireland is part of the UK. Northern Ireland is the older of the two, having been formed in 1921 from the six counties in the northern Province of Ulster which wished to retain its political unity with Great Britain.
Cultural links between Northern Ireland, the rest of Ireland, and the rest of the UK are complex, with Northern Ireland sharing both the culture of Ireland and the culture of the United Kingdom. In most sports, the island of Ireland fields a single team, a notable exception being association football. Northern Ireland is a distinct legal jurisdiction, separate from the two other jurisdictions in the United Kingdom (England and Wales, and Scotland). Northern Ireland law developed from Irish law that existed before the partition of Ireland in 1921.
Northern Ireland. Northern Ireland is composed of 26 districts, derived from the boroughs of Belfast and Londonderry and the counties of Antrim, Armagh, Down, Fermanagh, Londonderry, and Tyrone. Together they are commonly called Ulster, though the territory does not include the entire ancient province of Ulster. Geography. Northern Ireland is composed of 26 districts, derived from the boroughs of Belfast and Londonderry and the counties of Antrim, Armagh, Down, Fermanagh, Londonderry, and Tyrone.
Northern Ireland shares a border to the south and west with the Republic of Ireland. In 2011, its population was 1,810,863, constituting about 30% of the island's total population and about 3% of the UK's population. Northern Ireland is a distinct legal jurisdiction, separate from the two other jurisdictions in the United Kingdom (England and Wales, and Scotland). Northern Ireland law developed from Irish law that existed before the partition of Ireland in 1921.
For the history of the region previously, see History of Ulster. Northern Ireland is one of the four countries of the United Kingdom (although it is also described by official sources as a province or a region), situated in the northeast of the island of Ireland. It was created as a separate legal entity on 3 May 1921, under the Government of Ireland Act 1920. The new autonomous Northern Ireland was formed from six of the nine counties of Ulster: four counties with unionist majorities and two counties, Fermanagh and Tyrone, which had slight Irish nationalist majorities (of 53.6% and 54.6% respectively in the 1918 election).
1 Belfast (mouth of the river bank) — the capital and largest city of Northern Ireland. 2  It is also the second largest city on the island of Ireland (after Dublin, the capital of the Republic of Ireland), and the fifteenth largest in the United Kingdom. 1 Derry, or Londonderry (the Maiden City) —On the banks of the Foyle River is the second city of Northern Ireland and fourth city of Ireland is well worth a visit for its famous stone city walls (which date from the 16th century and are the only complete city walls in Ireland).