The Socialist Alliance is a Socialist party in Australia which engages in a combination of grass roots activism and electoral politics. With branches in most states and territories, and electoral registration federally and in a number of states, it claims to be the largest group on the Australian far Left. In September 2012 the Socialist Alliance initiated unity discussions with Socialist Alternative, the other main group on the Australian far-left. At the time, Socialist Alternative were in unity discussions with the Revolutionary Socialist Party (Australia) which lead to a merge in early 2013.
The Socialist Alliance participates in elections as one avenue for promoting socialist ideas, but it also places a heavy emphasis on grass roots campaigning and activism between elections. In September 2012 the Socialist Alliance initiated unity discussions with Socialist Alternative, the other main group on the Australian far-left. At the time, Socialist Alternative were in unity discussions with the Revolutionary Socialist Party (Australia) which lead to a merge in early 2013.
The Socialist Alliance was a left-wing electoral alliance in England between 1992 and 2005. The Socialist Party left the Alliance in 2001 (after the conference that adopted one member one vote) while Workers Power left in 2003. In 2003, the SWP, supported by the ISG, led the SA into an alliance with George Galloway and other figures involved in the Stop the War Coalition, to form the Respect Coalition.
The World Socialist Alliance (WSA) is overtly a Soviet-backed multinational organization of Third World nations, including Mexico and some Arabic countries. In reality, the WSA was a front for a global communist network devoted to taking down the United States and bring about a global communist revolution. The cause of this organization's rise is from the US involvement to support the European countries of Great Britain, Germany, Greece, Turkey and France. The main members of the WSA are the Soviet Union itself, Iraq, Libya, and Cuba (the four playable nations).
The United Socialist Alliance (USA) is a blue leftist socialist alliance composed of several sovereign nations and governed by the United Socialist Alliance Charter. Presidential elections were scheduled following what is slated to be a severe overhauling of the United Socialist Alliance Charter. Despite this, tarikmo3rd returned to Cyber Nations five days later, and was accepted again as President. Shortly after that, on 1 September 2008, General Mazur left Cyber Nations himself.
Socialist Alliance is an Australian political party, that is, (shock horror) socialist (socialist in the Marxist sense). They have two elected local councilors, although they have never won anything on a federal or state level since forming in 2001. They're often confused with the similarly named Socialist Alternative, the latter being fond of petitions, rallies during mid week and shouting at people on campus.
Origins [edit]. The alliance grew out of local Socialist Alliances formed by the Socialist Party, Alliance for Workers' Liberty, Independent Labour Network and independent socialists from 1992 onward. They gradually coalesced into the national Network of Socialist Alliances. The Socialist Party left the Alliance in 2001 (after the conference that adopted one member one vote) while Workers Power left in 2003. In 2003, the SWP, supported by the ISG, led the SA into an alliance with George Galloway and other figures involved in the Stop the War Coalition, to form the Respect Coalition.
Due to its unusual structure as a broad alliance, rather than a politically homogeneous socialist organisation, the Socialist Alliance places less emphasis on expounding one particular tradition or version of socialism as do many other socialist groups. In September 2012 the Socialist Alliance initiated unity discussions with Socialist Alternative, the other main group on the Australian far-left. At the time, Socialist Alternative were in unity discussions with the Revolutionary Socialist Party (Australia) which lead to a merge in early 2013.