1 Online Personal Training Services cost a fraction of what in-person trainers cost. 2  Gym America offers interactive workout and diet regimens for $7 per month or $50 for six months. 3  Fitness centers typically offer discounts if clients buy multiple training sessions or sign up for a new membership. Type of Session: 1 hour. 10 minutes of core and stretch prep work, and the rest is heavy circuit training. Original agreed upon price was $35 per hour session, but then my trainer tossed in a 3rd day of boxing technique and training for free, which effectively brought my real prices down to $23 per hour. EXCELLENT trainer and I'm seeing a lot of results
There are some people who have a trainer 5 days per week, but unless they are a professional athlete, they are in the minority. The ideal scenario would be to work with a personal trainer three days per week and then to engage in cardiovascular exercises on your own or with a group three days per week. Session Length. Most personal training sessions are based on 55 minutes to an hour. The warm up is typically completed independently by the client 5 – 10 minutes prior to the session starting. If the client is a very beginner, the warm up may be part of the session.
1 However, trainers can charge as low as $25 per hour, while some high-powered trainers earn as much as $15,000 for a six-week session, depending on geographical location and their experience. 2  Where you live greatly affects what trainers charge. Type of Session: 1 hour. 10 minutes of core and stretch prep work, and the rest is heavy circuit training. Original agreed upon price was $35 per hour session, but then my trainer tossed in a 3rd day of boxing technique and training for free, which effectively brought my real prices down to $23 per hour. EXCELLENT trainer and I'm seeing a lot of results
The Cost of a Personal Trainer. As of 2011, the average cost for one-on-one personal training ranges from $35 to $70 per hour. Photo Credit Jupiterimages/Comstock/Getty Images. Personal trainers are fitness experts hired by fitness clubs, training facilities or private studios to help clients reach fitness goals. Rates are typically based on a session per hour basis and vary according to the individual fitness club or training facility. According to FitMoves.com, the normal hourly rates range from $35 to $60, as of 2011. You can purchase different packages with a specific number of training sessions.
The reason Jackie Warner can charge over $400 for her sessions and some of her trainers can charge over $200 isn’t because they’re better trainers (if you’ve watched her show, you know that’s clearly not the case). 
Shared sessions, meaning two people work with one trainer for the session, are usually billed at the regular session rate x 2. So if a trainer charges $50 for one client per hour, two clients would be $75 in total reducing the cost to $37.50 per person. A client can get an equally effective workout when working with partner compared to working with the trainer one on one. Session Length. Most personal training sessions are based on 55 minutes to an hour. The warm up is typically completed independently by the client 5 – 10 minutes prior to the session starting. If the client is a very beginner, the warm up may be part of the session.
If you’re going to be an online personal trainer, do it right. If you’re looking at how to become a personal trainer online there are two ways to do it: 1  Take on a smallish amount of clients (10-20) at $100+/month. 2  This is at least an extra $1,000/month! (and $100/month is a low price.). 3  Take a step back from training in person and commit more time. 
Regardless of what you charge for personal training, your ideal outcome is to be totally comfortable about your rates, to be able to maintain eye contact with the customer and communicate the price without flinching, and to have them pay happily because your offer represents a fair exchange. New trainers can be uneasy at the mere mention of the topic of what to charge for personal training and established trainers sometimes still find themselves charging the same rate after a few years, so it’s not entirely about experience.
A session once a week costs $75, twice a week costs $60 and three times a week costs $50. If clients want or need to do a 30-minute session, I charge them $40 for once a week, $35 for twice a week and $30 for three times per week. Jey Linh Tran. Beyond Fitness Training. San Diego, California. I charge from $65 to $80 a session, less for friends and clients who have been with me since I started training. I charge less for clients who train three times a week and charge $35 per person for group sessions.