Full Definition of TRANSCENDENTALISM. 1. : a philosophy that emphasizes the a priori conditions of knowledge and experience or the unknowable character of ultimate reality or that emphasizes the transcendent as the fundamental reality. 2. : a philosophy that asserts the primacy of the spiritual and transcendental over the material and empirical. 3. : the quality or state of being transcendental; especially: visionary idealism. — tran·scen·den·tal·ist \-tə-list\ adjective or noun. See transcendentalism defined for English-language learners
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In philosophy, the adjective transcendental and the noun transcendence convey the basic ground concept from the word's literal meaning (from Latin), of climbing or going beyond, albeit with varying connotations in its different historical and cultural stages. He also equated transcendental with that which is ...in respect of the subject's faculty of cognition.. Something is transcendental if it plays a role in the way in which the mind constitutes objects and makes it possible for us to experience them as objects in the first place.
1 of or having to do with transcendentalism. 2  in Kantian philosophy, based on those elements of experience which derive not from sense data but from the inherent organizing functions of the mind, and which are the necessary conditions of human knowledge; transcending sense experience but not knowledge. 3  Math. adjective. The definition of transcendental is supernatural or beyond the human experience. An example of something transcendental is the ability to communicate with the dead.
transcendentalism. 1. any philosophy based upon the doctrine that the principles of reality are to be discovered only through the analysis of the processes of thought, as Kantianism. 2. a philosophy emphasizing the intuitive and spiritual above the empirical, as the philosophy of Emerson. Cf. 
You will see by this sketch that there is no such thing as a transcendental party; that there is no pure transcendentalist; that we know of no one but prophets and heralds of such a philosophy; that all who by strong bias of nature have leaned to the spiritual side in doctrine, have stopped short of their goal. The doctrine of the Unitarian church as taught at Harvard Divinity School was of particular interest. One of the transcendentalists' core beliefs was in the inherent goodness of both people and nature, in opposition to ideas of man as inherently sinful, or fallen, and nature as something to be conquered.
From SFTropes. Transcendentalism is a movement in America that stemmed from American individualism in the 1820s. The movement embraces a belief for a so-called higher reality that is not found in reason, the senses, or worldly materialism. 
2. A school of thought in the 1830s based on the idea of finding (greater) meaning in everyday objects. That meaning transcends the object itself. For instance Henry David Thoreau might write poetry about grass growing, but the meaning of the poem transcends from real to abstract, and in that way is transcendental. *note: Transcendental thought is normally restricted to the idea of observing the natural world and not art as I used in an example. Although it can be used for both, it is generally closely tied to the transcendental movement; which was based on deriving meaning through nature.
Top Definition. Transcendental. Although previously taken as a way of thinking in the 1800's, especially by people such as Thoreau, the modern way of perceiving the word transcendental can be redefined. Someone is transcendental when he/she is a freaking boss/beast/pro. *note: Transcendental thought is normally restricted to the idea of observing the natural world and not art as I used in an example. Although it can be used for both, it is generally closely tied to the transcendental movement; which was based on deriving meaning through nature.
...Shall we say, then, that transcendentalism is the Saturnalia or excess of Faith; the presentiment of a faith proper to man in his integrity, excessive only when his imperfect obedience hinders the satisfaction of his wish. This article is about the 19th-century American movement. The doctrine of the Unitarian church as taught at Harvard Divinity School was of particular interest. One of the transcendentalists' core beliefs was in the inherent goodness of both people and nature, in opposition to ideas of man as inherently sinful, or fallen, and nature as something to be conquered.
Transcendentalism was a philosophical movement that developed in the late 1820s and 1830s in the eastern region of the United States. The movement was a reaction to, or protest against the general state of intellectualism and spirituality. The doctrine of the Unitarian church as taught at Harvard Divinity School was of particular interest. One of the transcendentalists' core beliefs was in the inherent goodness of both people and nature, in opposition to ideas of man as inherently sinful, or fallen, and nature as something to be conquered.