Edit: A carbon based molecule does not have to be a polymer, although some polymers are carbon based. For example methane-CH4 is carbo … n based and not a polymer. Carbon based molecules are called organic compounds. 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body. 2  Electrical impulses are sent along the nervous system to and from the brain that regulate all movement.
The most important characteristics of carbon as a basis for the chemistry of life are, that it has four valence bonds, that the energy required to make or break a bond is at an appropriate level for building molecules, which are stable and reactive.
Yes. A polymer is a chain of hydrocarbon molecules. Edit: Although most polymers are carbon based, there are some silicon based polymers. The true definition of a polymer is … a large molecule consisting of many repeating subunits.
Carbon-based molecules are called organic compounds.  By sharing electrons, carbon can – bond to four other atoms and – branch in up to four directions.  compounds composed of only carbon and hydrogen are called hydrocarbons.  A carbon skeleton is a chain of carbon atoms that can be – branched or – unbranched.
Most molecules that contain carbon are organic. These molecules  make up organic compounds and can be liquid, gaseous, or solid  chemical compounds.
Most molecules that contain carbon are organic. These molecules  make up organic compounds and can be liquid, gaseous, or solid  chemical compounds.
Carbon forms the key component for all known life on Earth. Complex molecules are made up of carbon bonded with other elements, especially oxygen, hydrogen and nitrogen, and carbon is able to bond with all of these because of its four valence electrons. Carbon is abundant on earth.
5. Proteins • Proteins are very large molecules made of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and sometimes sulfur. • Many animal parts like hair, fingernails,Many animal parts like hair, fingernails, muscle, and skin, contain proteins. Hemoglobin is a protein in your blood that carries oxygen to your cells.