Asked by AnnGiggles. So about 2-4 months ago I got the IUD called skyla and the doc was explaining to me that it is jus like a normal IUD and prevents any pregnancies. Well the past two days I have gotten faint positive pregnancy tests.
An IUD or “intrauterine device” is a birth control that contains either copper or progesterone and is inserted into your uterus for anywhere from 3-5 years. This new one is called Skyla, and it’s a low-dose IUD that prevents pregnancy for up to three years.
There are also risks if you get pregnant while using Skyla and the pregnancy is in the uterus. Severe infection, miscarriage, premature delivery, and even death can occur with pregnancies that continue with an intrauterine device (IUD).
Skyla (levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine system) is an intrauterine device (IUD) that contains the female hormone progestin, and is a contraceptive used to prevent pregnancy for up to 3 years.
Skyla intrauterine device (IUD) is a small, flexible plastic T-shaped device. This device is placed in the uterus where it slowly releases the hormone to prevent pregnancy for 3 years.
1 The hormonal IUD, such as Mirena or Skyla, releases levonorgestrel, which is a form of the hormone progestin. 2  The hormonal IUD appears to be slightly more effective at preventing pregnancy than the copper IUD. 3  There are two hormonal IUDs—one works for 5 years, and the other works for 3 years. 4  Copper IUD.
If pregnancy should occur with Skyla in place, remove Skyla because leaving it in place may increase the risk of spontaneous abortion and preterm labor. Removal or manipulation may result in pregnancy loss. Evaluate women for ectopic pregnancy because the likelihood of a pregnancy being ectopic is increased with Skyla.
Skyla ™ (levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine system) is a hormone-releasing intrauterine device (IUD). It is placed in your uterus by your healthcare provider, where it can protect against pregnancy for up to three years.
Skyla (levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine system) is a hormone-releasing IUD that prevents pregnancy for up to 3 years.