1 Rinse your wound with warm salt water immediately after meals. 2  Saltwater rinses may promote healing. 3  To make a saltwater solution for rinsing the mouth, mix 1 tsp (5 g) of salt to 1 cup (250 mL) of warm water. 4  Eat soft foods that are easy to swallow. 1 Saltwater rinses may promote healing. 2  To make a saltwater solution for rinsing the mouth, mix 1 tsp (5 g) of salt to 1 cup (250 mL) of warm water. 3  Eat soft foods that are easy to swallow. 4  Soft foods include: 5  Milk and dairy products, such as milk shakes, yogurt, custards, ice cream, sherbets, and cottage cheese.
However, because some people experience a benefit from the salt-water rinse -- and the treatment is inexpensive -- it is worth a try. SaveYourSmile recommends mixing 1 tsp. salt with a cup of warm water, swishing it around the mouth for a minute and then spitting it out. Another treatment using salt requires 2 tbsp. of salt dissolved in 6 oz. of warm water. Rinse the mouth with this solution three to four times a day to draw fluid out of the sore, helping it heal. A third suggestion from Health 911 requires 1/4 tsp. salt, 1/2 tsp. goldenseal powder and 1 cup warm water. Rinse the mouth several times a day. A pinch of powdered goldenseal applied to the sore may help as well
Hence, you can use the ingredients separately or in an effective combination to cure mouth ulcers or canker sores. 1  Add two teaspoons each of sea salt and 3% hydrogen peroxide to a glass of warm water. 2  Use it as a mouth rinse. 3  Repeat once or twice a day. Both sea salt and hydrogen peroxide have anti-inflammatory, antiseptic and disinfectant properties. Hence, you can use the ingredients separately or in an effective combination to cure mouth ulcers or canker sores. 1  Add two teaspoons each of sea salt and 3% hydrogen peroxide to a glass of warm water. 2  Mix it well. 3  Use it as a mouth rinse. 4  Repeat once or twice a day. 5  Make sure you do not swallow the solution
Use a saline rinse. Rinsing your mouth with a saltwater solution can help disinfect your mouth ulcer, keeping it clean from the bacteria that naturally occurs in your mouth and preventing aggravation. 1  Mix a teaspoon or two of salt with a warm glass of water. 
1 Rinse your mouth. 2  Use salt water or baking soda rinse (dissolve 1 teaspoon of baking soda in 1/2 cup warm water). 3  Dab a small amount of milk of magnesia on your canker sore a few times a day. 4  Avoid abrasive, acidic or spicy foods that can cause further irritation and pain. 1 Use salt water or baking soda rinse (dissolve 1 teaspoon of baking soda in 1/2 cup warm water). 2  Dab a small amount of milk of magnesia on your canker sore a few times a day. 3
To help relieve pain and speed healing, consider these tips: 1  Rinse your mouth. 2  Use salt water or baking soda rinse (dissolve 1 teaspoon of baking soda in 1/2 cup warm water). 1 Use salt water or baking soda rinse (dissolve 1 teaspoon of baking soda in 1/2 cup warm water). 2  Dab a small amount of milk of magnesia on your canker sore a few times a day. 3  Avoid abrasive, acidic or spicy foods that can cause further irritation and pain