Biometric terms, such as recognition, verification and identification, are sometimes used randomly. This is not only confusing, but incorrect as each term has a different meaning. Recognition is a generic term and does not necessarily imply either verification or identification.
An oft-noted risk of biometric systems is the use of biometrics as a linking identifier. This risk, of course, depends to some extent on standardization. Consider, for instance, the use of the Social Security number as a linker across disparate databases.
Biometric technology is significantly improved over the 2009 US-VISIT findings: 1  Processing is significantly faster, requiring less than two seconds for fingerprint capture in some cases and many complete biographic-biometric options operating in less than 20 seconds for full processing.
A typical biometric system is comprised of five integrated components: A sensor is used to collect the data and convert the information to a digital format. Signal processing algorithms perform quality control activities and develop the biometric template.
Problems with current security systems… • Based on Passwords, or ID/Swipe cards• Can be Lost.• Can be forgotten.• Worse! Can be stolen and used by a thief/intruder to access your data, bank accounts, car etc….
The advantage of biometrics is that unlike tokens, biometrics cannot be lost, loaned, or forgotten. Token-based systems must verify that the presenter is the authorized user, not an unauthorized person who has come to possess the token.
In scientific terms, biometrics means anatomical or physiological data by which a person can be uniquely identified. At your biometrics appointment, USCIS will most likely collect your fingerprints, take your photo, and have you sign your name for electronic capture.
Biometrics Overview Commercial fingerprint systems that are used for verification purposes usually require only one finger to compare the fingerprint to the one on file to confirm the individual’s claimed identity. This process is completely automated and usually takes less than a second.
The term biometrics is derived from the Greek words bio (life) and metric (to measure). For our use, biometrics refers to technologies for measuring and analyzing a person's physiological or behavioral characteristics. These characteristics are unique to individuals hence can be used to verify or identify a person.