However, if you receive treatment with antibiotics, after 24 hours, you will no longer spread the bacteria to others. Children can return to school and adults to work after 24 hours of taking antibiotics. During the first 24 hours, there should also be a drop in temperature.
Once infected with strep, you are contagious for up to 2 to 3 weeks, … even without symptoms. However, taking antibiotics you will no longer spread the bacteria to others after about 24 hours.
Usually, the a general guideline would be that a person is not contagious after 48 hours' worth of antibiotics. With strep throat, a general guideline is 24 hours.
Pink eye is contagious for up to 14 days, in the case of viral conjunctivitis, and up to 24 hours after an antibiotic is started with bacterial conjunctivitis. Your healthcare provider will let you know which type of pink eye you or your child has and whether it is contagious.
Pink eye (conjunctivitis) generally remains contagious as long as your child is experiencing tearing and matted eyes. Signs and symptoms of pink eye usually improve within three to seven days. When tearing and matted eyes are no longer present, it's appropriate for a child to return to school or child care. If the pink eye is caused by a bacterial infection, treatment with antibiotic drops or ointment for the eyes may be necessary.
People with this condition are contagious for up to 14 days, in the case of viral conjunctivitis, and up to 24 hours after an antibiotic is started with bacterial conjunctivitis. Both bacterial and viral conjunctivitis are highly contagious.
In most cases, you’ll be contagious for a few days, and possibly as long as a week. Since you may not know what kind of illness you have -- and doctors don’t test for individual viruses, since there are hundreds of them -- it’s best to assume you could spread the disease while you have cold symptoms.
After starting a course of antibiotics, the length of time you remain infectious can vary. However, you are usually no longer infectious 24 hours after starting antibiotics.