When cleaning your wedding dress, it is important to know what kind of fabric the dress is made out of and to take the dress details into consideration. Depending on the fabric and embellishments, wedding dresses can be washed in a washer, a dryer, or by hand.
1 Shop around. 2  You’ll find that local wedding dress dry cleaning costs can vary by hundreds of dollars, even if some use the same exact service to have your dress cleaned and preserved. 3  Ask if they have a warranty and ask for referrals.
Most items that contain dry clean only labels can actually be dry cleaned at home with a dry cleaning kit. Learn how to determine which items can be dry cleaned at home, perform the dry cleaning process using a kit, and finish the job to give your clothes a professional dry-cleaned look. Ad.
Silk Cleaning Tips & Tricks: If you have hard water, add one teaspoon of borax to the water for the wash and the first rinse water. Brighten white silk by adding one teaspoon of hydrogen peroxide to the wash. If you want your dress to dry more quickly, use a sweater dryer, a net stretched over a frame.
1 How do they package the dress after cleaning? 2  Some dry cleaning companies will place your dress in a simple dry cleaning bag rather than placing the gown on a bust and placing into a preservation box. 3  Hanging your gown in a closet can cause permanent stretch to the fabric where the gown sits on the hanger.
Press it. You may choose to have a dry-cleaner steam your dress, or you may press it yourself. If you press it yourself, we recommend that you first wash and dry your ironing board cover to remove any dirt, starch, or sizing. Spread a clean sheet on the floor of your working area to protect the dress as you press it.
Tweet. If you're afraid to wear your fabulous silk dress to a party for fear of damaging it, a few cleaning tips can help you out and save you big on dry cleaning. While this delicate fabric requires careful handling, most silk clothing does well with hand washing in mild soap.
Don't submerge a dress like this in water. Before treating stains or cleaning a silk dress, check for color fastness. Dampen the fabric or apply your preferred stain remover to an inconspicuous part of the dress. If the color runs or changes, dry clean
Most of our garments are loose fitting which allow you not to dry clean after every wear. To refresh your CAMILLA we recommend steaming, hanging your CAMILLA in an airy place or using an iron on a low silk friendly setting, if using an iron do not place any heat over the beading/embellishments.