The Art of the Micro Coil: A Beginners Guide to Coiling an RBA. For new or less experienced vapers, RBAs can seem confusing and over-complicated. I was there myself – I had just gotten into the world of variable voltage, and I was still using carto tanks and pre-coiled clearomizers.
It is what turns the juice to vapor. Coils are generally made by wrapping wire around a wick a specific number of times, and then connecting the lead ends to the posts in your RBA. Resistance wire is used when making a coil, and there are two common types of resistance wire you can use. NiChrome, and Kanthal.
The inner workings of a rebuildable atomizer are surprisingly simple. The coil inside the RBA is made of some type of resistance wire, normally Kanthal or nichrome. When a current is applied to the coil (resistance wire), it heats up and the heated coil then vaporizes the eliquid. Inside the Kayfun Rebuildable Atomizer. The resistance wire used for the coil comes in different gauges.
RBA stands for ReBuildable Atomizer. They are rebuildable/reusable versions of the standard disposables items that every vaper knows – cartomizers, atomizers, etc. The goal here is to provide a cheaper, more sustainable (and often more efficient) way to get your vapor.
Kayfun Lite Plus – Rebuildable Atomizer (RBA). What makes the atomizer “rebuildable” is the fact that it can be easily taken apart to replace the wicks and coils contained within. The RBA itself is comprised of two pieces of stainless steel (although other metals can be used).
RDA = Rebuildable Dripping Atomizer-You directly drip e-liquid on the wick/coil, it does not hold a lot of liquid at a time. Have to re-fill' liquid more often, but easier to make and change out coils, wicks, and customize the Ohm output.
At the heart of every RBA, is the coil, which is the heating element that causes your e-liquid to vaporize, and the wick, which supplies the hot coil with liquid. The coil is made of some type of resistance wire, usually Kanthal or NiChrome.
Replacement Kanger Mini RBA Deck Plus V2 This RBA deck is a direct replacement for the one included in the Kanger Subtank Mini Kit and Subtank Plus. This RBA is not compatible with any other tanks. Use this RBA to build your own Kanger Subtank Mini Coils.
Resistance wire that is useful for building RBA coils comes in different “thicknesses”, or gauges. .28, .30, .32, and .34 are common gauges. .28 is thicker than .34. Given a target resistance of 1.8 ohms, a much shorter length of .34 gauge wire would be needed than a .28 gauge wire.