There are a number of ants that can behave in the same manner as termites. These ants also ring homeowners’ ant/termite alarm bells because they resemble termites in their flying stage. Considered structural pests, these ants also will nest — then swarm — inside the house, Fredericks says. This is when they typically are encountered by homeowners, he adds.
Determining whether you have flying ants or winged termites is important in how you treat the problem. Some flying winged ants resemble the winged-swarming termite. Here are some ways do identify the differences: While both species have four wings, termite wings are uniform in size. Winged ants have noticably larger wings in the front than than the pair in the back.
Winged Ants. Flying Ants are Called Alates. The majority of ants are wingless. However, at certain times of the year, swarms of flying ants become a common sight. These winged ants often are called alates, swarmers or reproductives. Winged ants have elbowed antennae, thin waists constricted at the thorax and hind wings smaller than their front wing
But because the ants are not active outdoors in the winter, a flying ant seen indoors at this time most likely means that the ants are nesting within the structure. It is rare for termites to swarm at all in the winter, but they have been known to do so in warm areas of infested buildings. Some carpenter ants are much larger than termites. In fact, carpenter ants are one of the largest of all ant species! But other carpenter ants are very small, so size is not a way to determine species.
Flying Ants. Whether the winged ant you see is a carpenter ant or a termite, however, the wings mean that the insect is a reproductive male or queen—the only members of an ant colony that can reproduce. Some carpenter ants are much larger than termites. In fact, carpenter ants are one of the largest of all ant species! But other carpenter ants are very small, so size is not a way to determine species.
Ants and termites swarm to mate, then the males die, having done their duty, and the queens drop their wings to find a nesting site. Because of this, a winged ant seen indoors during the summer may just mean that it flew in from outside, and it will likely die before it could find a good nesting site. Some carpenter ants are much larger than termites. In fact, carpenter ants are one of the largest of all ant species! But other carpenter ants are very small, so size is not a way to determine species.
I have 2 questions, 1st: In a few colonies I have found ants with wings, are they flying ants or termites? 2nd: What is the best way to eliminate ants from my pasture without harming my animals? Question: I have these little black bugs that have wings on them in my house. 
Flying ants are sometimes mistaken for flying termites, and the opposite also is true. Termites, however, can be harmful to houses and other structures and are considered pests. Flying ants usually are more of a nuisance than harmful, although they might damage plants during their few days of infestation. Flying ants are not a separate species of ants. They are simply ants at a particular stage of life — specifically, the mating stage. Not every individual ant goes through this stage. Males who go through this stage die soon after mating.
The sight of flying ants in and around the home alarms most people. Contrary to popular belief, flying ants are not always a sign of termites or termite infestations in a home. Another identifying characteristic that separates winged ants from winged termites is the antennae. All ants have antennae that have a fairly severe bend or elbow but termite antennae to not have this sharp bend. A termite's antennae are beaded, an ant's antennae have segments that sometimes end in small club.
Flying ants may be found inside or outside of your home and this means that you have to inspect the entire area surrounding your home when you first notice them. This will allow you to find out where they are coming from. Find The Nests. Your best chance of getting rid of all of the flying ants in your house is by finding their nest. Keep in mind that there may be more than one nest, but you can use gel bait to find the location(s) of the nest(s). Ants will come out and eat the gel bait and bring some of it back to