Indeed, it was undoubtedly the first such building in Wanganui. A search of Parliamentary and Government department archival records suggest that only one other purpose-built Native Land Court and Maori Land Board office was erected prior to 1930, this one in Rotorua. The building operated as the administrative headquarters for the Aotea Maori Land Board until the boards were disestablished in 1953. It continued to be used for Native Land Court meetings until 1981. In the years following the building's construction, at least two alterations took place.
The Native Land Court was one of the key products of the 1865 Native Lands Act. This process of alienating Māori land concerned some settler politicians. Former Attorney-General Henry Sewell had protested against the government’s policy of confiscating the land of Māori deemed to be ‘in rebellion’. Back in office in 1865, he asserted that the Native Land Court was designed to:
The building is a rare, if indeed not unique, example of a purpose built Native Land Court building in New Zealand. Research suggests that only one other Native Land Court Building was purpose built prior to 1930, and this wooden building in Rotorua was replaced by a modern building in 1963. The building operated as the administrative headquarters for the Aotea Maori Land Board until the boards were disestablished in 1953. It continued to be used for Native Land Court meetings until 1981. In the years following the building's construction, at least two alterations took place.
The Māori Land Court was established in 1865 as the Native Land Court of New Zealand under the Native Lands Act. In 1993, the Te Ture Whenua Māori Act expanded the court's jurisdiction to allow it to hear cases on all matters related to Māori land. Appeals from the Māori Land Court are heard by the Māori Appellate Court, which consists of a panel of three judges of the Māori Land Court.
Aboriginal title is a common law doctrine that the land rights of indigenous peoples to customary tenure persist after the assumption of sovereignty under settler colonialism. The New Zealand Parliament responded with the Maori Lands Act 1862 and the Native Rights Act 1865 which established the Native Land Court (today the Māori Land Court) to hear aboriginal title claims, and—if proven—convert them into freehold interests that could be sold to Pākehā.
The Native Land Court was created in 1865. This centralised, Pākehā-controlled court was based largely on the settlers' legal system and converted customary title to land to individual title, effectively making it easier for Māori land to be sold to settlers. Land Court sitting. The court replaced a system that had been set up in 1862. Under the Native Lands Act of that year, settlers could directly buy Māori land – for the first time since the mid-1840s. Māori had a large role in deciding land ownership.
As a very rare example of a purpose-built Native Land Court in New Zealand, this place has a unique ability to remind all New Zealanders of the impact of the Native Land Court and this complex part of New Zealand's history, which has had significant and ongoing effects on New Zealand society. The building operated as the administrative headquarters for the Aotea Maori Land Board until the boards were disestablished in 1953. It continued to be used for Native Land Court meetings until 1981. In the years following the building's construction, at least two alterations took place.
The interior of the building included a courtroom and office space for the Native Land Court and Aotea Maori Land Board staff. The building operated as the administrative headquarters for the Aotea Maori Land Board until the boards were disestablished in 1953. It continued to be used for Native Land Court meetings until 1981. In the years following the building's construction, at least two alterations took place.
The Native Lands Acts 1862 and 1865 established the Native Land Court. This freed up more land for purchase by settlers as it individualised Māori land title. The Native Land Court did not uphold this custom. In its early years the court often awarded ownership of land areas of less than 5,000 acres (2,023 hectares) to a maximum of 10 named owners, although many more might claim ownership.
The Native Land Court was established by the Native Lands Acts of 1862 and 1865 to investigate titles to Māori land. As the Māori Land Court, it is still in operation in the 2000s, and its functions and jurisdiction are set out in the Te Ture Whenua Maori/Maori Land Act 1993. 1 First, the Native Land Court would conduct an ‘investigation of title’ to a particular block of land and determine its owners. 2  This could often be a very lengthy and contested process. 3  Once it had made its decision, the Court would issue a certificate of title to the owners.