(ləbrĕt`ō) [Ital.,=little book], the text of an opera or an oratorio. Although a play usually emphasizes an integrated plot, a libretto is most often a loose plot connecting a series of episodes. Characterization and emotion are suggested by the words of a libretto but are expressed by the music. The first major librettist was Ottavio Rinuccini, an Italian poet of the 16th cent
Full Definition of LIBRETTO. 1. : the text of a work (as an opera) for the musical theater. 2. : the book containing a libretto. See libretto defined for English-language learners. See libretto defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Libretto. A libretto is the text used in, or intended for, an extended musical work such as an opera, operetta, masque, oratorio, cantata, or musical. The term libretto is also sometimes used to refer to the text of major liturgical works, such as the Mass, requiem, and sacred cantata, or the story line of a ballet. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: libretto (Noun). The text of a dramatic musical work, such as an opera. libretto (Noun). A book containing such a text.
The Libretto is a line of subnotebook computers designed and produced by Toshiba. The line was distinguished by its combination of functionality and small size, squeezing a full Windows PC into a device the size of a paperback book. 
The libretto, the little book, is the text of an opera or similar vocal work, originally issued in a small printed book. Close the window. 
A libretto is the text used in, or intended for, an extended musical work such as an opera, operetta, masque, oratorio, cantata or musical. The term, libretto is also sometimes used to refer to the text of major liturgical works, such as the Mass, requiem and sacred cantata, or the story line of a ballet. Libretto (
Cover of a 1921 libretto for Giordano's Andrea Chenier. Chénier a libretto is the text used, in or intended, for an extended musical work such as an, opera, operetta, masque, oratorio cantata or. musical The term, libretto is also sometimes used to refer to the text of major liturgical works, such as the Mass, requiem and sacred cantata, or the story line of a ballet.
A libretto for any opera, including Aida, is the creation of the words to sbe sung. If it is sung AND spoken, it is generally considered a musical or an operetta. The vo … ices sing what the composer wrote in terms of music, but the poetry or words that tell the story are based on the librettist's work. 
Libretto. the verbal text of a work of musical drama, such as an opera or operetta and, in the past, of a cantata or oratorio; a ballet scenario; a brief summary of the content of an opera, operetta, or ballet. Although a play usually emphasizes an integrated plot, a libretto is most often a loose plot connecting a series of episodes. Characterization and emotion are suggested by the words of a libretto but are expressed by the music.