IBU stands for International Bitterness Units and is a standardised measure of the bitterness of beer set by the European Brewing Convention (EBC). The bitterness of beer comes from alpha acids found in hops; the concentration of alpha acids is directly proportional to the theoretical bitterness of the beer. This concentration can be measure in a laboratory and hence a figure assigned to the bitterness of the beer. Well, there is actually no such thing as 80 proof beer. Proof, in short, is a measure of the alcoholic content beverages, used specifically in hard spirits. The proof, specifi … cally, is double the content of alcohol by volume. For example, most vodka is 80 proof, which means it contains 40%
IBU stands for International Bittering (or Bitterness) Unit and it is used to gage the bitterness of beers. In more precise terms, it describes the quantity of alpha acids from hop resins that have been isomerised by boiling wort. The unit of measure is parts per million, or milligrams per litre. The number of IBUs in a particular beer is not the only indicator of bitterness. As I explained above, beers derive their character from the balance between sweet and bitter flavour elements. It follows that two beers with different gravities (levels of sugar) but with identical IBU values will taste differently.
Check out the strongest naturally-fermented beer in the world here. Like ABV, IBU (International Bitterness Units) is another common measurement for beer. Rather than telling us how much alcohol there is, IBU measures the bitterness from hops in a beer on a scale of 0 to 100. In more technical terms, IBU gauges the isomerized alpha acids from hops in a beer in parts per million. Very hoppy beers, like imperial IPAs, can reach 80 BU. It can take years of effort and lots of batches of beer to create a delicious brew. The more you understand about the beer you’re drinking, the more you can fully appreciate it in all of its glory. Two important measurements of beer that you should know are ABV and IBU. Figuring out what they mean and how they relate to beer can help you to better understand your own preference for beer and the beers behind the bar. Even better, you’ll never get lost in a conversation about brews again
Answered by: Cassandra, An Expert in the Beer-General Category. The IBU's in beer refers to the International Bitterness Unit scale which is a standard for measuring the amount of hops in one's beer. For example, a hoppy beer like an IPA will have a very high IBU rating, like a 75, while a malty beer like a stout will usually (but not always) have a low IBU rating at around a 30. To be more specific, the IBU's in beer refers to the one part per million of isohumolone. Isohumolone is the acid found in hops that gives the beer its bite. In the beer industry people don't have sweet tooths, they have hop tooths. This means that people crave that bitter beer with a nice pungent taste to it
Question: What are IBU s and why should I care?R. H., Kingston, New Hampshire, USAAnswer: IBU stands for International Bittering Unit-the scale used to measure hop bitterness in beer. 
The number of IBUs may not tell you how bitter the beer tastes, but it is useful when planning recipes. With a target IBU, you can use brewing software to develop mixes of hops that achieve the desired bitterness for the style you’re aiming for. Don’t forget that hops also contribute aroma and other flavours to beer, especially when added at the end, and that bitterness is just one of their characteristics. The number of IBUs in a particular beer is not the only indicator of bitterness. As I explained above, beers derive their character from the balance between sweet and bitter flavour elements. It follows that two beers with different gravities (levels of sugar) but with identical IBU values will taste differently.
This percentage lets you know how much of your beer is alcohol and how much is other stuff, like water. Simply put, the higher the ABV, the more drunk you’ll get. Beer can be anywhere between 2% to 12% ABV, though you’ll generally find it in the 4% to 6% range. It can take years of effort and lots of batches of beer to create a delicious brew. The more you understand about the beer you’re drinking, the more you can fully appreciate it in all of its glory. Two important measurements of beer that you should know are ABV and IBU. Figuring out what they mean and how they relate to beer can help you to better understand your own preference for beer and the beers behind the bar. Even better, you’ll never get lost in a conversation about brews again