Directions: 1  Preheat Oven to 375°F. 2  Carefully cut spaghetti squash in half lengthwise. 3  Bake for 45 minutes, or until the squash flesh becomes tender and separates easily into strands with a fork. 4  Serve spaghetti squash warm or with cheese and your favorite pasta sauce. 1 Preheat Oven to 375°F. 2  Oil a sheet pan with olive oil. 3  Carefully cut spaghetti squash in half lengthwise. 4  Scoop out the seeds and connecting strands, then place cut side down on the prepared sheet pan. 5
1 2 Remove the squash from the oven and let sit at room temperature until cool enough to handle, about 30 minutes. 2  Scrape the flesh with a fork to make long strands; set aside. 3  3 Heat the remaining 2 tablespoons of oil in a large saucepan over medium heat until shimmering, about 3 minutes. 1 Brush the flesh with 2 tablespoons of the oil and season generously with salt and pepper. 2  Place the squash halves cut-side up on a baking sheet and roast until fork tender, about 50 minutes. 3  2 Remove the squash from the oven and let sit at room temperature until cool enough to handle, about 30 minutes.
1 Place the squash halves cut-side up on a baking sheet and roast until fork tender, about 50 minutes. 2  2 Remove the squash from the oven and let sit at room temperature until cool enough to handle, about 30 minutes. 3  Scrape the flesh with a fork to make long strands; set aside. 1 Brush the flesh with 2 tablespoons of the oil and season generously with salt and pepper. 2  Place the squash halves cut-side up on a baking sheet and roast until fork tender, about 50 minutes. 3  2 Remove the squash from the oven and let sit at room temperature until cool enough to handle, about 30 minutes.
1. Preheat oven to 375F. Pierce squash a few times with sharp paring knife (to let steam escape). Bake spaghetti squash for 60 minutes, or until a paring knife pierces easily through skin with little resistance. Let squash cool for 10 minutes. 2. 
Preheat oven to 425 degrees. Drizzle squash flesh with 2 tablespoons olive oil and season with salt and pepper. Place cut side down on a parchment-lined rimmed baking sheet. Roast until squash is tender when pierced with a knife, about 1 hour. When cool enough to handle, gently scrape squash with a fork to remove flesh in long strands and transfer to a medium bowl. Toss with remaining 1 tablespoon oil, lemon juice, and parsley.
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Split the squashes in half and scrape out seeds. Line an oven tray with aluminum foil. Season the spaghetti squash with olive oil, salt, and pepper. Place flesh side down and roast for 30 to 40 minutes until fully cooked. Remove from the oven and let rest until cool enough to handle.
1 1 Heat the oven to 400°F and arrange a rack in the middle. 2  Cut the squash in half lengthwise and scrape out the seeds. 3  Brush the flesh with 2 tablespoons of the oil and season generously with salt and pepper. 4  Place the squash halves cut-side up on a baking sheet and roast until fork tender, about 50 minutes. 1 Brush the flesh with 2 tablespoons of the oil and season generously with salt and pepper. 2  Place the squash halves cut-side up on a baking sheet and roast until fork tender, about 50 minutes. 3  2 Remove the squash from the oven and let sit at room temperature until cool enough to handle, about 30 minutes.
Directions. Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Slice squash in half and place fleshside down in a baking dish. Add 1/4-inch of water. Bake for 40 minutes, or until tender and remove. Rake squash with a fork, creating spaghetti strands. Spoon on sauce, mozzarella, and basil. Place back in oven and bake until cheese begins to bubble.