The chemistry section of the lab is the most highly automated. Here, tests are run for diabetes, metabolic disorders, thyroid, kidney, liver, and heart disease. This section is also highly automated. The tests performed include hemoglobin, white blood cell counts, red blood cell counts, and white cell differentials, which tell the medical provider what types of white cells, are present in the patient’s blood.
A medical laboratory or clinical laboratory is a laboratory where tests are usually done on clinical specimens in order to obtain information about the health of a patient as pertaining to the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of disease. 1 Parasitology is a microbiology unit that investigates parasites. 2  The most frequently encountered specimen here is faeces. 3  However, blood, urine, sputum, and other samples may also contain parasites. 4  Virology is concerned with identification of viruses in specimens such as blood, urine, and cerebrospinal fluid.
Blood cultures are used to detect the presence of bacteria or fungi in the blood, to identify the type present, and to guide treatment. Testing is used to identify a blood infection (septicemia) that can lead to sepsis, a serious and life-threatening complication. 1 Viruses cannot be detected using blood culture bottles designed to grow bacteria. 2  If the health practitioner suspects that a viral infection may be the cause of the person's symptoms, then other laboratory tests would need to be performed.
Microbiology includes the study of both bacteria and viruses. Many tests in microbiology have been traditionally manual procedures. While some tests such as a rapid Strep or influenza screen can be done in 15-20 minutes, some cultures may take several days or even weeks depending on how fast the organisms grow. This section is also highly automated. The tests performed include hemoglobin, white blood cell counts, red blood cell counts, and white cell differentials, which tell the medical provider what types of white cells, are present in the patient’s blood.
Other related tests that may be performed include: 1  Gram stain —a relatively quick test used to detect and identify the general type of bacteria. 2  Susceptibility testing —determines the drug (antimicrobial) that may be most effective in treating the infection. 1 Viruses cannot be detected using blood culture bottles designed to grow bacteria. 2  If the health practitioner suspects that a viral infection may be the cause of the person's symptoms, then other laboratory tests would need to be performed.
Immunology in the lab is the study of invading organisms and our responses to them. These invaders include viruses, bacteria, protozoa, or even larger parasites. Immunology testing at VMH includes the tests for Lyme disease, Measles, Mumps, Rubella, HIV, Giardia, Cryptosporidium, and other diseases. This section is also highly automated. The tests performed include hemoglobin, white blood cell counts, red blood cell counts, and white cell differentials, which tell the medical provider what types of white cells, are present in the patient’s blood.
Absence or presence of white blood cells in the Gram stain can help establish that an adequate sample was obtained as white blood cells are frequently present with an infection. A Gram stain may also be performed as part of the evaluation of a culture. When bacteria grow on/in a nutrient media in the laboratory, a Gram stain is performed to help determine the type of bacteria present and to help determine what other tests may need to be performed to definitively identify the cause of infection. Fungi, including yeast, may also be detected with a Gram stain. 
Medication levels are also routinely performed. For most tests the blood sample is spun in a centrifuge to separate the blood cells from the serum or plasma, which is used to run the tests. Testing includes glucose, electrolytes, cholesterols, and various enzymes. This section is also highly automated. The tests performed include hemoglobin, white blood cell counts, red blood cell counts, and white cell differentials, which tell the medical provider what types of white cells, are present in the patient’s blood.
1 The clinical microbiology laboratory is an integral part of managing patients with various infectious diseases. 2  Clinicians and laboratory personnel should maintain frequent communication so that accurate and clinically relevant test results are available in a timely manner. The role of the laboratory begins when patient specimens are received in the laboratory; the laboratory should process and handle the specimens appropriately and in a timely fashion—that is, in a manner that ensures that the integrity of the specimen will not be compromised.