1 In many species, one stipular spine or a pair of stipular spines may be observed at each node, e.g., among legumes, and for legumes, the stipular spine is the typical type of shoot armature (Examples: coral tree, Chloroleucon, and a mimosa). Stipule-like outgrowths may also be found at the base of leaflets on a compound leaf, in addition to stipules at the base of the petiole (rachis). Leaflet stipules are termed stipels or, less commonly, secondary stipules.
In this plant the stipular spines are hollow and house mutualistic ants. The leaves are further modified to provide yellow structures on the margins of the leaves which only function to feed the ants. The perioles bear glands that excrete nectar for the ants too. 
Spines can be petiolar spines as those of Foquieria, leaflet spines as in Phoenix, stipular spines as in Euphorbia, all those are examples of spines developing from a part of a leaf containing the petiole, midrib, or a secondary vein. Technically speaking, many plants commonly thought of as having thorns or spines actually have prickles. Roses, for instance, have prickles. Other structures that look alike are spinose teeth, spinose apical process, stiff trichomes and stinging trichomes.
The predominant function of thorns, spines and prickles is deterring herbivory in a mechanical form. Not all functions of spines or glochids are limited to defence from physical attacks by herbivores and other animals. Technically speaking, many plants commonly thought of as having thorns or spines actually have prickles. Roses, for instance, have prickles. Other structures that look alike are spinose teeth, spinose apical process, stiff trichomes and stinging trichomes.
A pair of stipules is considered part of the anatomy of the leaf of a typical flowering plant, although in many species the stipules are inconspicuous or entirely absent (and the leaf is then termed exstipulate). In some older botanical writing, the term stipule was used more generally to refer to any small leaves or leaf-parts, notably prophylls. Stipules are morphologically variable and might appear as glands, scales, hairs, spines, or laminar (leaf-like) structures. A relationship exists between the anatomy of the stem node and the presence or absence of stipules: most plants with trilacunar nodes have stipules; species with unilacunar nodes lack stipules
In botany, stipule (Latin stipula: straw, stalk) is a term coined by Linnaeus which refers to outgrowths borne on either side (sometimes just one side) of the base of a leafstalk (the petiole). In some older botanical writing, the term stipule was used more generally to refer to any small leaves or leaf-parts, notably prophylls. Stipules are morphologically variable and might appear as glands, scales, hairs, spines, or laminar (leaf-like) structures. A relationship exists between the anatomy of the stem node and the presence or absence of stipules: most plants with trilacunar nodes have stipules; species with unilacunar nodes lack stipules
In plant morphology, thorns, spines, prickles, and in general spinose structures (as spinose teeth, spinose apical process) are all hard structures with sharp, stiff ends, generally with the same function of physically deterring animals from eating the plant material. Technically speaking, many plants commonly thought of as having thorns or spines actually have prickles. Roses, for instance, have prickles. Other structures that look alike are spinose teeth, spinose apical process, stiff trichomes and stinging trichomes.
spine. 1. a thornlike process or projection; called also acantha and spina. 2. the rigid bony structure in the midline of the back, composed of the vertebrae; called also backbone, spinal column, and vertebral column. The spinal column is the axis of the skeleton; the skull and limbs are in a sense appendages. The most common of these is pott's disease, or tuberculosis affecting the vertebrae and soft tissues of the spine. Another is osteitis deformans, a type of bone inflammation in which parts of the bone are replaced by softer tissue. scoliosis is a curvature of the spine toward one side.
In some plants we can see lateral small-leaf like structure at the leafbase.When the leaf is a bud stipules protect the bud as a cover.Later ,it changes into thorns or stay without change. In some plants we can see lateral small-leaf like structure at the  leafbase.When the leaf is a bud stipules protect the bud as a  cover.Later ,it changes into thorns or sta … y without change. 1 person found this useful.