Time to put it in the oven. Put the lid on, then roast in a 275-degree oven for 3 hours, for a 3 pound roast. For a 4 to 5 pound roast, plan on 4 hours. And don’t peek and fiddle and frig with it, either. Just find a hobby that will occupy your thoughts and actions for the time it takes for your roast to cook. Place the meat in the pan and sear it for about a minute on all sides until it is nice and brown all over. Remove the roast to a plate. With the burner still on high, use either red wine or beef broth (about 1 cup) to deglaze the pan, scraping the bottom with a whisk to get all of that wonderful flavor up.
1 Return to Dutch oven. 2  In a small bowl, stir 1/2 cup water into flour. 3  Stir into pan juices. 4  Cook, stirring, on medium heat until thickened, then 1 minute more. 5  Season to taste. 6  Serve with pot roast. 7  For oven cooking: After browning meat and adding liquid mixture to pan, bake, covered, for 1 hour at 325 degrees. 1 Brown meat on all sides in hot oil in a 4- to 6-quart Dutch oven. 2  Drain fat. 3  Mix 3/4 cup water, Worcestershire sauce, bouillon, basil and salt and pepper to taste. 4  Pour over roast.
Generously salt and pepper your chuck roast. Heat a large pot or Dutch oven over medium-high heat. Then add 2 to 3 tablespoons of olive oil (or you can do a butter/olive oil split). Cut two onions in half and cut 6 to 8 carrots into 2-inch slices (you can peel them, but you don’t have to). Place the meat in the pan and sear it for about a minute on all sides until it is nice and brown all over. Remove the roast to a plate. With the burner still on high, use either red wine or beef broth (about 1 cup) to deglaze the pan, scraping the bottom with a whisk to get all of that wonderful flavor up.
1 Sear the roast on both sides for 5-6 minutes each, until well browned. 2  Remove from the skillet and set aside. 3  Reduce the heat to medium and stir in mushrooms and butter; cook for 3-4 minutes. 4  Stir in onion; cook for 5 minutes, until onions are translucent and begin to brown. 1 Reduce the heat to medium and stir in mushrooms and butter; cook for 3-4 minutes. 2  Stir in onion; cook for 5 minutes, until onions are translucent and begin to brown. 3  Add garlic, stir for about a minute. 4  Stir in 1 1/2 tablespoons flour; cook and stir for about 1 minute. 5  Add tomato paste, and cook for another minute.
1. Rub roasts evenly with 1 tsp. salt and 1 tsp. pepper. 2. Brown roasts on all sides in hot oil in a Dutch oven over medium-high heat (about 10 minutes). Place roasts, side by side, in a 6-qt. slow cooker. Add carrots and remaining ingredients. 3. Cook, covered, on LOW 10 to 12 hours or until tender. Remove roast and vegetables, and shred meat. Pour gravy mixture from slow cooker into a 4-cup measuring cup or fat strainer, and let stand 15 minutes. Spoon or pour fat out of gravy mixture in cup or fat strainer, and discard. 
1 Trim fat from meat. 2  Brown meat on all sides in hot oil in a 4- to 6-quart Dutch oven. 3  Drain fat. 4  Mix 3/4 cup water, Worcestershire sauce, bouillon, basil and salt and pepper to taste. 5  Pour over roast. 6  Bring to boil. 7  Reduce heat and simmer, covered, 1 hour. 1 Brown meat on all sides in hot oil in a 4- to 6-quart Dutch oven. 2  Drain fat. 3  Mix 3/4 cup water, Worcestershire sauce, bouillon, basil and salt and pepper to taste. 4
5. Cook the roast for 3 to 4 hours or until the meat is fork tender. Use a meat thermometer to determine the roast is done cooking. The internal temperature should reach at least 145 degrees Fahrenheit (63 degrees Celsius). It's an inexpensive cut, with a rich, delicious flavor that makes it a classic main dish for a big home-cooked meal. For tender, pull-apart meat, it should be slow cooked to allow time for the meat to soften and become juicy. Read on to learn how to make a chuck roast. 1  Prep time: 30-45 minutes. 2  Cook time: 3-4 hours. 3  Total time: 4-5 hours
Place the roast back into the pot and add enough beef stock to cover the meat halfway. Add in the onions and the carrots, along with the fresh herbs. Put the lid on, then roast for 3 hours for a 3-pound roast. For a 4 to 5-pound roast, plan on 4 hours. The roast is ready when it's fall-apart tender. Directions. Preheat the oven to 275 degrees F. Generously salt and pepper the chuck roast. Heat the olive oil in large pot or Dutch oven over medium-high heat. Add the halved onions to the pot, browning them on both sides.