In turn, the word oxidant may logically infer bad health. However, oxidant actually has different implications depending nature of the subject matter -- for example, biological versus industrial systems. This is because at base, an oxidant is a substance that accepts electrons. Oxidants or oxidizing agents are electron acceptors that cause oxidation on a biological or chemical level. Previously, the term oxidation was applied to reactions that exclusively involved oxygen. However, today, it is acknowledged that oxidation can be caused by oxidants, with or without the prevalence of oxygen.
Oxidant. Definition. noun, plural: oxidants. (1) Any substance that has the ability to oxidize other substance. (2) A molecule or atom capable of accepting electrons during a redox reaction. Supplement. An oxidant is a substance that accepts or receives electron from another substance, hence, is consequently reduced. Since it accepts electrons it is also called an electron acceptor.
In this context, the oxidizing agent is called an electron acceptor and the reducing agent is called an electron donor. A classic oxidising agent is the ferrocenium ion [Fe(C 5 H 5) 2 ] + , which accepts an electron to form Fe(C 5 H 5) 2. Tetracyanoquinodimethane is an organic electron-acceptor. The dangerous materials definition of an oxidizing agent is a substance that can cause or contribute to the combustion of other material. By this definition some materials that are classified as oxidising agents by analytical chemists are not classified as oxidising agents in a dangerous materials sense.
An antioxidant is a molecule that inhibits the oxidation of other molecules. Oxidation is a chemical reaction involving the loss of electrons which can produce free radicals. In turn, these radicals can start chain reactions. When the chain reaction occurs in a cell, it can cause damage or death to the cell. The relative importance of the antioxidant and pro-oxidant activities of antioxidants is an area of current research, but vitamin C, which exerts its effects as a vitamin by oxidizing polypeptides, appears to have a mostly antioxidant action in the human body.
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Definition: An oxidant is a reactant that removes electrons from other reactants during a redox reaction. Also Known As: oxidizer, oxidizing agent. Examples: Hydrogen peroxide, ozone, and nitric acid are all oxidizers. 
Oxidation is any chemical reaction that involves the moving of electrons. Specifically, it means the side that gives away electrons. When iron reacts with oxygen it forms a chemical called rust. The iron is oxidized and the oxygen is reduced. Oxidation is the opposite of reduction. A reduction reaction always comes together with an oxidation reaction. Oxidation and reduction together are called redox (reduction and oxidation). Oxygen does not have to be present in a reaction, for it to be a redox reaction.
An example of this is when iron comes in contact with oxygen (an oxidant) and moisture. The reaction corrodes the iron and produces a red-orange residue. This is an oxidation process is called rusting. Oxidation on a chemical level is also used commercially through oxidation technologies.. Oxidants or oxidizing agents are electron acceptors that cause oxidation on a biological or chemical level. Previously, the term oxidation was applied to reactions that exclusively involved oxygen. However, today, it is acknowledged that oxidation can be caused by oxidants, with or without the prevalence of oxygen.
Oxidizing Agent. An oxidant is also called an oxidizing agent. Oxidizing agents can be expressed in the form of a single molecule, a compound (a mixture of substances) or an element. An oxidant is usually expressed as a molecule when the subject pertains to biological functions. Oxidants or oxidizing agents are electron acceptors that cause oxidation on a biological or chemical level. Previously, the term oxidation was applied to reactions that exclusively involved oxygen. However, today, it is acknowledged that oxidation can be caused by oxidants, with or without the prevalence of oxygen.
In one sense, an oxidizing agent is a chemical species that removes an electron from another species. It is one component in an oxidation-reduction (redox) reaction. In the second sense, an oxidizing agent or an oxidizer is a chemical species that transfers electronegative atoms, usually oxygen, to a substrate. The dangerous materials definition of an oxidizing agent is a substance that can cause or contribute to the combustion of other material. By this definition some materials that are classified as oxidising agents by analytical chemists are not classified as oxidising agents in a dangerous materials sense.