Exacta Betting. by Kenneth Strong of Predictem.com. Exacta betting requires you to pick the first two finishers in a race in exact order hence the name exacta. Also known at some tracks as the exactor or perfecta, exactas are attractive betting propositions to many players because of the potential for large payoffs.
Exacta betting requires you to pick the first two finishers in a race in exact order hence the name exacta. Also known at some tracks as the exactor or perfecta, exactas are attractive betting propositions to many players because of the potential for large payoffs.
Betting an Exacta Box is not only inefficient it can also be costly depending on the number of horses you use. A two horse Exacta Box costs $2 (2 x 1 = 2) for each $1 bet, a three horse Exacta Box costs $6 (3 x 2 = 6) for each $1 bet, a four horse Exacta Box costs $12 (4 x 3 = 12) for each $1 bet and so on.
The Quinella is one bet, while the Exacta Box is two. If you bet a $2 Quinella, the price of the ticket is $2. If you bet a $2 Exacta Box, the price of the ticket will be $4. The prize pools of these two bets are different, so one will typically pay out higher than the other.
Exacta horse racing betting is a popular form of pari-mutuel wagering that can be quite lucrative for experienced horse racing bettors. Winning an Exacta bet isn’t the easiest thing to do by far, but for seasoned handicappers, the profit margin can be remarkable.
An Exacta Wager (or in some areas it is called a Perfecta) involves picking two horses that you believe will finish first and second. Because you must select two horses, this wager is generally harder to hit than a straight wager, but usually pays greater dividends when you do hit it.
An Exacta bet, also referred to a Exactor or Perfecta, is one where the bettor picks two horses to finish in the first and second place positions (Win and Place), in an exact order. Both horses must finish in the chosen order, or the bet is lost.
A common way to play an Exacta would be a $2 Exacta box. If you liked the #1 and #2 horse, a $2 Exacta box would cost $4. If those two horses ran first and second in either order, you win.