A placental abruption is a serious condition in which the placenta partially or completely separates from your uterus before your baby's born. A placental abruption also increases the risk that your baby will have growth problems (if the abruption is small and goes unnoticed), be born prematurely, or be stillborn. Placental abruption happens in about one in 150 pregnancies. It's most common in the third trimester but can happen any time after 20 weeks.
Placental Abruption. Though you may not think much about it, your placenta is a very important part of your pregnancy. Your placenta is actually an organ, which helps to deliver nutrients, blood, and oxygen to your baby. Typically, the placenta functions normally until birth, helping your baby grow strong and healthy
Placenta abruptio is a pregnancy problem in which the placenta separates too early from the wall of the uterus. The placenta is a round, flat organ that forms during pregnancy. It gives the baby food and oxygen from the mother. 1  In a normal pregnancy, the placenta stays firmly attached to the inside wall of the uterus until after the baby is born. 2  In placenta abruptio, the placenta breaks away (abrupts) from the wall of the uterus too early, before the baby is born. 
The condition can deprive your baby of oxygen and nutrients, and cause severe bleeding that can be dangerous to you both. A placental abruption also increases the risk that your baby will have growth problems (if the abruption is small and goes unnoticed), be born prematurely, or be stillborn. Placental abruption happens in about one in 150 pregnancies. It's most common in the third trimester but can happen any time after 20 weeks.
Placental abruption (abruptio placentae) is an uncommon yet serious complication of pregnancy. The placenta is a structure that develops in the uterus during pregnancy to nourish the growing baby. If the placenta peels away from the inner wall of the uterus before delivery — either partially or completely — it's known as placental abruption. Placental abruption can deprive the baby of oxygen and nutrients and cause heavy bleeding in the mother. Placental abruption often happens suddenly. Left untreated, placental abruption puts both mother and baby in jeopardy.
Like placenta previa, placental abruption is a pregnancy complication that affects your placenta. It causes your placenta to detach from your uterus before labor and delivery. Typically, the placenta detaches after your baby is delivered. Sometimes though, the placenta begins to peel away from the uterus early. Though you may not think much about it, your placenta is a very important part of your pregnancy. Your placenta is actually an organ, which helps to deliver nutrients, blood, and oxygen to your baby.
Placental Abruption: Abruptio Placentae. Placental abruption is the separation of the placenta from the uterine lining. This condition usually occurs in the third trimester but can occur any time after the 20th week of pregnancy. It transfers oxygen and nutrients to your baby. When the placenta separates from your uterine lining before labor it can interrupt the transportation of oxygen and nutrients to your baby. Placental abruption can only truly be diagnosed after birth, when the placenta can be examined.
The lowest segment of the uterus is a narrowed portion called the cervix. This cervix has an opening (the os) that leads into the vagina, or birth canal. The placenta is the organ that attaches to the wall of the uterus during pregnancy. The placenta allows nutrients and oxygen from the mother's blood circulation to pass into the developing baby (the fetus) via the umbilical cord. This sequence is necessary because the baby relies on the placenta to provide oxygen until he or she begins to breathe independently. Placental abruption occurs when the placenta separates from the uterus before the birth of the baby.
Placental abruption (also known as abruptio placentae) is a complication of pregnancy, wherein the placental lining has separated from the uterus of the mother prior to delivery. It occurs on average in 0.5%, or 1 in 200, deliveries. Placental abruption is a significant contributor to maternal mortality worldwide; early and skilled medical intervention is needed to ensure a good outcome, and this is not available in many parts of the world.
The placenta is part of your baby’s life support system. It transfers oxygen and nutrients to your baby. When the placenta separates from your uterine lining before labor it can interrupt the transportation of oxygen and nutrients to your baby. Placental abruption can only truly be diagnosed after birth, when the placenta can be examined.