Lobotomy (Greek: λοβός lobos  lobe (of brain); τομή tomē cut, slice) is a neurosurgical procedure, a form of psychosurgery, also known as a leukotomy or leucotomy (from the Greek λευκός leukos clear, white and tome). Lobotomy patients often show a marked reduction in initiative and inhibition. They may also exhibit difficulty putting themselves in the position of others because of decreased cognition and detachment from society. Immediately following surgery patients were often stuporous, confused, and incontinent.
The frontal cortex, or frontal lobe, of the brain is removed or partially damaged in a lobotomy. Talk therapy, medication and other treatments have virtually completed replaced lobotomies. Lobotomies were historically used to treat patients who suffered with psychological illnesses. Patients can enter comas and persistent vegetative states after lobotomies. Lobotomies caused some patients to enter a persistent vegetative state. Today, doctors sometimes perform what is known as psychosurgery, a form of neurosurgery which involves selective destruction of the brain, to treat very specific conditions.
lobotomy. n, pl-mies. 1. (Surgery) a surgical incision into a lobe of any organ. 2. (Surgery) Also called: prefrontal leucotomy a surgical interruption of one or more nerve tracts in the frontal lobe of the brain: used in the treatment of intractable mental disorders. [C20: from lobe + -tomy]. (ləˈbɒt ə mi, loʊ-). n., pl.
Some countries have abandoned psychosurgery altogether; in others, for example the US and the UK, it is only used in a few centres on small numbers of people with depression or obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). In some countries it is also used in the treatment of schizophrenia and other disorders. Psychosurgery is a collaboration between psychiatrists and neurosurgeons. During the operation, which is carried out under a general anaesthetic and using stereotactic methods, a small piece of brain is destroyed or removed.
Today, the word “lobotomy” is rarely mentioned. If it is, it’s usually the butt of a joke. But in the 20 th century, a lobotomy became a legitimate alternative treatment for serious mental illness, such as schizophrenia and severe depression. Physicians even used it to treat chronic or severe pain and backaches.
View full size image. Lobotomy, also known as leucotomy, is a neurosurgical operation that involves severing connections in the brain's prefrontal lobe, according to Encyclopaedia Britannica. 
The more common form of a lobotomy is the Transorbital L … obotomy, a procedure in which the frontal lobe is scrambled with an icepick inserted without incision through the eye sockets and then moved around in the brain so as to cut off any neurological connection to and from that region of the brain. a neurosurgical procedure, a form of psychosurgery, also known as a leukotomy or leucotomy (from Greek leukos: clear or white and tomos meaning cut/slice). It consists … of cutting the connections to and from the prefrontal cortex.
The Way of the Ice Pick. The lobotomy is a type of neurosurgery, or surgery performed on the brain, known as psychosurgery. The idea behind psychosurgery is that severe forms of mental illness can be treated by changing the way that the brain works. So a lobotomy was intended to sever the white matter between different areas of gray matter. (Another name for lobotomy, leucotomy, means slice/cut white in Greek.). The first lobotomies were performed in 1935 by Portuguese neurologists Dr. Antonio Egas Moniz and Dr. Almeida Lima.
Psychosurgery, also called neurosurgery for mental disorder (NMD), is the neurosurgical treatment of mental disorder. Psychosurgery has always been a controversial medical field. The modern history of psychosurgery begins in the 1880s under the Swiss psychiatrist Gottlieb Burckhardt. In some countries it is also used in the treatment of schizophrenia and other disorders. Psychosurgery is a collaboration between psychiatrists and neurosurgeons. During the operation, which is carried out under a general anaesthetic and using stereotactic methods, a small piece of brain is destroyed or removed.
A lobotomy is a surgical procedure which involves removing or damaging parts of the frontal cortex. Today, doctors sometimes perform what is known as psychosurgery, a form of neurosurgery which involves selective destruction of the brain, to treat very specific conditions.