Some of the disadvantages of emergency contraception are that: 1  it does not protect against sexually transmitted diseases; 2  it should only be used for emergency situations; and. 3  it must be used as soon as possible after the event (within 3 days for hormonal emergency contraception, or 5 days for an IUD).
Advantages. The advantages of the morning after pill are that it is effective as an emergency backup contraceptive and it is available over the counter at pharmacies without a prescription. Disadvantages. The morning after pill should not be used as a primary form of birth control. If 100 women take the morning after pill, 2 of them are likely to become pregnant with each use. The morning after pill can be expensive, so it will pay to shop around.
5.5.2 Advantages of mini-pills. The mini-pill can be used by nursing mothers, as it does not affect breastmilk. The major advantage of the mini-pill is that it can be used by nursing mothers six weeks after giving birth, and does not affect the quality and quantity of
The term emergency contraception (also known as the morning-after pill or postcoital contraception) refers to contraceptive methods that can be used to prevent pregnancy after unprotected sex (sex without effective birth control).
The pill has many advantages as a form of contraception. If used correctly, the pill is highly effective at preventing pregnancy. The pill must be taken every day, preferably at about the same time, or the failure rate increases.
1 The hormones in the birth control pill can help stop acne from forming. 2  Reduces the risk of symptomatic endometriosis. 3  Women who have endometriosis tend to have less pelvic pain and fewer other symptoms when they are on the Pill. 4  Birth control pills won't cure endometriosis but it may stop the disease from progressing.
Some of the advantages of emergency contraception are that: 1  it can reduce the incidence of abortions and unwanted pregnancies; and. 2  it can be used during breastfeeding (although you should not breastfeed for three days after taking most of the emergency hormonal contraceptive pills currently available).
Health benefits and advantages. Birth control pills provide certain health benefits in addition to preventing pregnancy. 1  Highly effective reversible contraception. 2  Birth control pills provide highly reliable contraceptive protection, exceeding 99%.