Carpal tunnel syndrome is the compression of the median nerve, the nerve that passes through your wrist. The median nerve is located on the palm side of your hand (also called the carpal tunnel). It serves your thumb and first three fingers. Carpal tunnel syndrome can occur in one or both of your hands. The compression in carpal tunnel syndrome results from swelling inside your wrist. It can cause numbness and tingling to the side of your hand near the thumb. Carpal tunnel syndrome is quite common, existing in up to 10 percent of the U.S. population.
Carpal tunnel syndrome is a painful disorder of the wrist and hand, caused by pressure on the median nerve in the carpal tunnel in your hand. The trusted experience and surgical expertise of the neurosurgeons at The Johns Hopkins Peripheral Nerve Surgery Center make us the best choice for treatment of this condition. Causes of carpal tunnel syndrome. Carpal tunnel syndrome is a condition of nerve entrapment. It is caused when the tunnel surrounding the tissues inside the bones of your wrist narrows, inflaming the tissues and your median nerve. A mass may occupy the canal compressing the nerve.
For most patients, the cause of their carpal tunnel syndrome is unknown. Any condition that exerts pressure on the median nerve at the wrist can cause carpal tunnel syndrome. Common conditions that can lead to carpal tunnel syndrome include obesity, pregnancy, hypothyroidism, arthritis, diabetes, and trauma. Carpal tunnel syndrome is numbness, tingling pain, and weakness in the thumb, index and middle fingers as a result of irritation of the median nerve being irritated at the wrist. In fact, as I next explained to her, she did not have carpal tunnel syndrome at all.
Carpal tunnel syndrome is a condition of nerve entrapment. It is caused when the tunnel surrounding the tissues inside the bones of your wrist narrows, inflaming the tissues and your median nerve. Causes of carpal tunnel syndrome. Carpal tunnel syndrome is a condition of nerve entrapment. It is caused when the tunnel surrounding the tissues inside the bones of your wrist narrows, inflaming the tissues and your median nerve. A mass may occupy the canal compressing the nerve.
Carpal tunnel syndrome is an irritation of the median nerve in the wrist that leads to numbness, tingling, pain, and weakness in the hand. The syndrome typically affects the thumb, index, and middle fingers and is often particularly troublesome at night. 
Carpal tunnel syndrome is a painful, progressive condition that occurs when the median nerve in the wrist is compressed. The nerve may become compressed because it has swollen, the tendons are inflamed, or both. 
Causes. Carpal tunnel syndrome occurs as a result of compression of the median nerve. The median nerve runs from your forearm through a passageway in your wrist (carpal tunnel) to your hand. It provides sensation to the palm side of your thumb and fingers, with the exception of your little finger. It also provides nerve signals to move the muscles around the base of your thumb (motor function).
Not all pain in the wrist or hand is caused by carpal tunnel syndrome. There are many other conditions with similar symptoms, such as: 1  An injury to the muscles, ligaments, tendons, or bones. 2  Nerve problems in the fingers, elbow, or neck. 3  Arthritis in the thumb joint or wrist. 
Carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) is a medical condition in which the median nerve is compressed as it travels through the wrist at the carpal tunnel and causes pain, numbness and tingling, in the part of the hand that receives sensation from the median nerve. 