Since you have been diagnosed with mono; you'll need to avoid alcohol for a few months, even after you start feeling better While mono cannot be cured, it will go away on its own, as symptoms generally last approximately four weeks. However, it is crucial to rest and drink plenty of fluids. But, NO ALCOHOL! Enlargement of the liver and spleen may occur with mono, so alcohol, as in beer, wine and liquor, must be avoided. In addition, strenuous exercise should be completely avoided until permission is given by a clinician. Even if you didn't have mono, alcohol is a very dangerous thing. it causes many deaths, and even if you don't get legally drUNk, you still can kill many brain cells, lose your sense of coordination, and other horrible side affects.
Avoid alcohol while you have mono. That's because mono and alcohol can each affect a person's liver. The two together could cause liver damage.Since you haven't been diagnosed yet, hold off on drinking alcohol. Tags: drinking alcohol, drinking, mono, swollen lymph nodes, lymph nodes, sore throat, symptoms, swollen, liver, neck. Quick Reply.
Well alcohol basically makes your liver work harder. Your liver already finds it hard enough to digest alcohol when you’re healthy. So…. … if you have mono (mononucleosis), your liver is already inflamed and you can injure your liver even more by drinking alcohol. You could literally be poisoning yourself. So mono and alcohol really don’t mix. 
MONO can cause a enlarged spleen and Liver. The Liver being enlarged is rare with MONO-but if this did happen and someone consummed alcohol daily or large quantities several times a week then there is a very very small chance it may effect the Liver. 
While i had the symptoms of mono but before i was diagnosed with mono, i drank alcohol on 4 ocassion. Twice moderately (5-6 drinks thoughout the night) and twice quite heavily(10-12 drinks). What is the likelyhood of any serious damage to the my liver or any damage at all. Tags: drinking alcohol, drinking, mono, swollen lymph nodes, lymph nodes, sore throat, symptoms, swollen, liver, neck. Quick Reply.
When you have mono, one of the side effects is often an inflamed liver. Alcohol enters the liver and can make your inflammation even worse. This is because alcohol forces your liver to work harder than it is usually used to working. This will put undo stress on your body and can cause other consequences as well. Most people would naturally avoid alcohol when they feel as ill as mono often makes people feel. However, if you have an especially high alcohol tolerance, or you have an issue with alcohol, you may try to drink while dealing with mono. This can be incredibly dangerous and toxic for you and your system
People should avoid alcohol while they have mono. That's because mono and alcohol can each affect a person's liver. The two together could cause liver damage. Since you haven't been diagnosed yet, hold off on drinking alcohol until you've seen a doctor or visited student health.
The Dangers of Mono and Alcohol. When you have mono, one of the side effects is often an inflamed liver. Alcohol enters the liver and can make your inflammation even worse. This is because alcohol forces your liver to work harder than it is usually used to working. This will put undo stress on your body and can cause other consequences as well. You need your white blood cells to help you to get rid of the mono. In addition, you should certainly avoid caffeinated beverages, alcohol and processed foods. These foods are devoid of the nutrients that you need and they offer empty calories. Finally, try to remember to drink a good deal of water during the day.