Gingivitis is the swelling of the gums that is caused by the accumulation of bacteria along the gum line. If the gingivitis is left untreated, it leads to periodontitis. Symptoms of periodontal disease include receding gums, inflammation along the gum line, pain, and sensitivity to changes in temperature. Reversing Periodontitis. Once gingivitis has developed into the more advanced stages of Periodontitis, or advanced gum disease, this requires more complex treatments by a periodontal disease expert. Inflammation has already breached the gum line. Treatment at this stage will be a combination of regular treatment from your periodontist as well as doing your part at home. To help combat and reverse periodontal disease, the dentist will remove tartar and plaque from below the gum line. This is known as scaling and root planing. Local anaesthesia is used because it would be painful without it. In addition, your periodontist will prescribe an antibiotic to limit the infection
Symptoms of Periodontal Disease. Because symptoms may not occur until the disease is advanced, it is possible to have periodontal disease and have no warning signs. This is one of the reasons why regular dental checkups, which include periodontal examinations, are very important. When the periodontal destruction has reached the underlying bone, the condition has progressed to the more serious form of gum disease called periodontitis. The gums eventually separate from the teeth, forming pockets (spaces between the teeth and gums) of infection.
Gingivitis. Gingivitis is the mildest form of periodontal disease. It causes the gums to become red, swollen, and bleed easily. There is usually little or no discomfort at this stage. Gingivitis is often caused by inadequate oral hygiene. Gingivitis is reversible with professional treatment and good oral home care. 
Gingivitis is a mild form of gum disease that can usually be reversed with daily brushing and flossing, and regular cleaning by a dentist or dental hygienist. This form of gum disease does not include any loss of bone and tissue that hold teeth in place. 
Periodontal disease is probably the most common and pervasive disease in the world. It can be present in 13 on up to 80+ year olds who still have their teeth. It is the major cause of tooth loss after age 30. Periodontal disease is an inflammatory and infectious disease that breaks down the attachment of the gums to the teeth. This usually happens painlessly. Slowly the bone is reabsorbed creating deeper and deeper periodontal pockets and eventually the teeth become looser if this process isn’t stopped.
The signs of gingivitis include red, swollen gums, … bleeding gums when you brush your teeth. Periodontal disease may include sore teeth, loose teeth, or a chronic bad taste in your mouth. So, in that respect, periodontal disease is technically 'infectious' because it takes direct contact (person-to-person, intimate kissing) or vector contact (sharing a toothbrush for example) to spread the bacteria.
Periodontitis Symptoms. In addition to the signs and symptoms of gingivitis, periodontitis gum disease symptoms include: 1  A bad taste in your mouth and persistent bad breath. 2  Gums that pull away from the teeth or receding gums. 3  Loose teeth or a change in the way your teeth feel when you bite or chew. 
For the most part, periodontal disease is not reversible. That means that whatever loss of periodontal attachment has occurred is usually permanent. It does not tend to grow back. So, in that respect, periodontal disease is technically 'infectious' because it takes direct contact (person-to-person, intimate kissing) or vector contact (sharing a toothbrush for example) to spread the bacteria.
The only way that we can repair bone damage caused by periodontal disease is with the use of certain surgeries, such as bone grafts. By the time periodontal disease progresses to this point, you will likely be experiencing severe recession of your gums, and you may have even lost teeth. We'd prefer that periodontal disease not be allowed to progress that far.