LUNCH MEATS: Prepackaged lunch meats last for 3-5 days once their packages have been opened, while sliced meats from the deli will last for 5 days. MEAT: Cooked beef, pork or poultry can be kept safely in the refrigerator for 3-4 days, and can be frozen safely for up to 6 months.
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container.
Cooked Food: Leftover, cooked foods should be kept in the refrigerator in an airtight container and eaten within 4-5 days. Food, whether cooked or not, should not be left at room temperature for more than 4 hours otherwise the risk of food poisoning increases.
A refrigerator is a way to store foods that are to be eaten in a few days. Cooked foods that are in the refrigerator should be eaten within 5 days. Any longer than that they should be thrown in the garbage.
SALADS: Egg, tuna, ham, chicken and macaroni salads can be kept safely for 3-5 days. Un-dressed green salads and cut vegetables can be kept this long as well, and no salads freeze well – so eat it up! SEAFOOD: Seafood leftovers can be kept only 2 days in the refrigerator, and will taste better if consumed in 1 day.
GRAVY & BROTH: Cooked gravy and broth will stay fresh and safe to eat for 1-2 days in your refrigerator. Freeze it into ice cube trays and you’ll have a handy burst of flavor to add to your next meal. PASTA: Cooked pasta keeps for 3-5 days in the refrigerator, although pasta in soups will swell after the first day.
3 days in the refrigerator if the food is stored properly. Place in an air tight container for the best results. You can transfer the food … to the freezer if longer storage is needed. A lot depends on how closely you watch the temperature in the refrigerator.
Kitchen Fact: Cooked food stored in the refrigerator should be eaten in 3 to 4 days. After food is cooked, it should sit out at room temperature no more than two hours before being refrigerated to slow down bacteria growth. But once stored in the fridge, leftovers should be eaten up within three to four days because bacteria can still grow even at refrigerator temperatures.