This conference came to be known as the Munich Conference. While there, Britain and France decided to allow Germany to annex the areas near the German border (the Sudetenland). Hitler said that it was his final demand in Europe. The action of Britain and France is regarded as appeasement. The Munich Conference was held in Munich, Germany on September 28-29, 1938, with the leaders of Great Britain, France, Germany and Italy. Adolf Hitler had demanded the possess … ion of the Sudetenland in Czechoslovakia
Confidence votes 101. The Munich Conference was held in Munich, Germany on September 28-29, 1938, with the leaders of Great Britain, France, Germany and Italy. Adolf Hitler had demanded the possession of the Sudetenland in Czechoslovakia. On 29th September, 1938, Adolf Hitler, Neville Chamberlain, Edouard Daladier and Benito Mussolini signed the Munich Agreement which transferred the Sudetenland to Germany.
The Munich conference was a meeting of four European countries (Italy, France, Great Britain and Germany). The agreement allowed Germany to annex Czechoslovakia's Sudetenland. On 29th September, 1938, Adolf Hitler, Neville Chamberlain, Edouard Daladier and Benito Mussolini signed the Munich Agreement which transferred the Sudetenland to Germany.
An agreement was reached that Hitler could annex the Sudetenland provided he promised not to invade anywhere else. All four countries signed the agreement: Adolf Hitler (Germany), Neville Chamberlain (UK), Edouard Daladier (France), and Benito Mussolini (Italy). The famous photo from the Munich Conference 1938 is that of Neville Chamberlain holding up a scrap of paper and claiming to have secured peace in our time. His actions were popular in Britain because the British people thought war with Germany had been avoided. Now he wanted to also take the Sudetenland region of Czechslovakia and make the territory a part of Germany. He claimed that the German speaking inhabitants of this land were being mistreated by the Czech government. On 29 September 1938 the Munich Conference was called.
The Munich Agreement was the agreement signed on 29 Sept 1938 between Chamberlain, Daladier (France), Hitler and Mussolini (Italy). There is a whole section on the website on the Sudeten crisis, which led up to the agreement, on http://www.johndclare.net/RoadtoWWII5.htm. 
The agreement was negotiated at a conference held in Munich, Germany, among the major powers of Europe, excluding the Soviet Union and Czechoslovakia. Today, it is widely regarded as a failed act of appeasement toward Germany. Because the state of Czechoslovakia was not invited to the conference, it considered itself to have been betrayed by the United Kingdom and France, so Czechs and Slovaks call the Munich Agreement the Munich Diktat (Czech: Mnichovský diktat; Diktát: Slovak mnichovský). mníchovský diktat diktát
A+E Networks. On this day in 1938, Adolf Hitler, Benito Mussolini, French Premier Edouard Daladier, and British Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain sign the Munich Pact, which seals the fate of Czechoslovakia, virtually handing it over to Germany in the name of peace. 
This conference came to be known as the Munich Conference. While there, Britain and France decided to allow Germany to annex the areas near the German border (the Sudetenland). Hitler said that it was his final demand in Europe. The action of Britain and France is regarded as appeasement. On 29th September, 1938, Adolf Hitler, Neville Chamberlain, Edouard Daladier and Benito Mussolini signed the Munich Agreement which transferred the Sudetenland to Germany.