Volcanic and plutonic rocks are types of igneous rock. Volcanic rocks form when lava cools and solidifies on earth and plutonic rocks form when magma cools and solidifies below earth. Learn about different characteristics of these igneous rocks. Volcanic rocks are also known as 'extrusive igneous rocks.' We see from their definition that volcanic rocks form on the surface, or 'exterior,' of the earth. If you remember that 'extrusive' and 'exterior' both start with the letters 'ext,' it may help you recall this term.
Volcanic rock (often shortened to volcanics in scientific contexts) is a rock formed from magma erupted from a volcano. In other words, it differs from other igneous rock by being of volcanic origin. Like all rock types, the concept of volcanic rock is artificial, and in nature volcanic rocks grade into hypabyssal and metamorphic rocks and constitute an important element of some sediments and sedimentary rocks. For these reasons, in geology, volcanics and shallow hypabyssal rocks are not always ==Characteristics==. Pyroclastic rocks are the product of explosive volcanism. They are often felsic (high in silica). Pyroclastic rocks are often the result of volcanic debris, such as ash, bombs and tephra, and other volcanic ejecta.
Let's review. Igneous rocks are rocks made from the cooling and solidifying of molten rock. There are two categories of igneous rocks. Volcanic rocks are rocks formed when lava cools and solidifies on the earth's surface. Volcanic rocks are also known as 'extrusive igneous rocks' because they form from the 'extrusion,' or eruption, of lava from a volcano. Volcanic rocks are also known as 'extrusive igneous rocks.' We see from their definition that volcanic rocks form on the surface, or 'exterior,' of the earth. If you remember that 'extrusive' and 'exterior' both start with the letters 'ext,' it may help you recall this term.
When the magma cools it solidifies and forms rocks, the type of rock formed depends on the chemical composition of the magma and how rapidly the magma cools. Magma that reaches the surface to become lava cools rapidly resulting in rocks with small crystals such as basalt. Volcanism is the phenomenon of eruption of molten rock (magma) onto the surface of the Earth or a solid-surface planet or moon, where lava, pyroclastics and volcanic gases erupt through a break in the surface called a vent.
Best Answer: Igneous rocks are called fire rocks and are formed either underground or above ground. Underground, they are formed when the melted rock, called magma, deep within the earth becomes trapped in small pockets. As these pockets of magma cool slowly underground, the magma becomes igneous rocks. Igneous rocks are also formed when volcanoes erupt, causing the magma to rise above the earth's surface. When magma appears above the earth, it is called lava. Andesitic rocks (Andesite) or Diorite are usually formed by subduction zone (strato-or compositive volcanoes) at convergent boundaries. Rhyolite (formed above ground-extrusive) and granite (intrusive-formed under ground and usually never reaches the surface under eruption conditions).
A volcano is a vent or fissure in Earth's crust through which lava, ash, rock and gases erupt. A volcano is also a mountain formed by the accumulation of these eruptive products. Let's take a look at how volcanoes form: Earth's crust is 40 to 250 miles (64 to 402 kilometers) thick. It is broken up into 14 major and 38 smaller pieces called tectonic plates. 
Lava solidifies to rock. New Zealand has 3 main types of volcanoes, and each has been formed from a different type of magma. Once the lava has erupted, it cools and solidifies into rock: 1  Basalt magma often forms shield volcanoes. 2  Andesite magma often forms cone volcanoes. 3  Rhyolite magma often forms calderas. 4  Depending on how much gas the magma contains, it can also form cone volcanoes. Basalt is associated with great rock columns that are found in many places around the Earth, for example, the Organ Pipes in Dunedin or the Giant’s Causeway in Ireland. Basalt magma is formed at high temperatures (around 1,200ºC). When it comes out of the volcano, it is hot and liquid.
Rocks formed when magma becomes solid are known as igneous (fire-formed) rocks. One type of igneous rock is granite, which is formed from magma that never reaches the Earth's surface. This magma slowly cools within the Earth. Large crystals of minerals grow within the magma as it gradually hardens. 
The most common are the following: Basalt and gabbro are usually formed by volcanoes that have an oceanic crust origin, such as Hot Spot volcanoes such as the Hawaiian Islands. Andesitic rocks (Andesite) or Diorite are usually formed by subduction zone (strato-or compositive volcanoes) at convergent boundaries. Rhyolite (formed above ground-extrusive) and granite (intrusive-formed under ground and usually never reaches the surface under eruption conditions).