Digestive tract The digestive tract is the tube that extends from the mouth to the anus, and it consists of the – (1) mouth, – (2) pharynx, – (3) esophagus, – (4) stomach, – (5) small intestine, and – (6) large intestine. Digestive System Overview • The large intestine is divided into the (1) cecum, (2) appendix, (3) colon, (4) rectum, and (5) anal canal. – The sigmoid colon joins the rectum, which terminates at the anal canal. The short anal canal terminates at the opening to the outside called the anus.
The digestive tract is the tube that extends from the mouth to the anus, and it consists of the (1) mouth, (2) pharynx, (3) esophagus, (4) stomach, (5) small intestine, and (6) large intestine. The accessory organs include the (1) teeth, (2) tongue, (3) salivary glands, (4) liver, (5) gallbladder, and (6) pancreas. Digestive System Overview • The large intestine is divided into the (1) cecum, (2) appendix, (3) colon, (4) rectum, and (5) anal canal. – The sigmoid colon joins the rectum, which terminates at the anal canal. The short anal canal terminates at the opening to the outside called the anus.
1 Digestive System The process of chemically and physically breaking down foods into simpler forms that can be absorbed is called digestion. Digestive System • The digestive system can be divided into two major parts: – (1) the alimentary canal (gastrointestinal, or digestive tract) and – (2) the accessory organs. Digestive System Overview • The large intestine is divided into the (1) cecum, (2) appendix, (3) colon, (4) rectum, and (5) anal canal. – The sigmoid colon joins the rectum, which terminates at the anal canal. The short anal canal terminates at the opening to the outside called the anus.
The digestive system is a long tube inside the animal, with the mouth as the opening at the anterior end and the anus as the opening at the posterior end. The process of digestion, the enzymatic breakdown of complex food substances into their simpler components, occurs in the lumen (cavity) of the digestive tube. 
[h1]{PAGETITLE}[/h1]. Digestion is described as a process by which food can be changed into substances that can be absorbed and utilized by the body cells. The digestive system has two major contributing components: the alimentary canal and the accessory organs. The alimentary canal starts at the mouth, follows through to the pharynx, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine, and finally ends at the anal canal
The digestive tract is a tube, which begins at the mouth and ends either at a cloaca or a nus. It processes food, which moves by peristalsis through the process of digestion, absorption and elimination. The general pattern is to have an oral (buccal) cavity, pharynx, esophagus, stomach and intestine. 
There are two openings to the digestive tract. The anterior opening  of the digestive tract is the mouth or oral cavity, and the  posterior opening of the digestive tract is … the anus. Mikey Cz. 5 Contributions. Updated Answer. The posterior opening is the anus & the anterior opening is the mouth or oral cavity.
Small Intestine. The small intestine is a long, highly convoluted tube in the digestive system that absorbs about 90% of the nutrients from the food we eat. It is given the name “small intestine” because it is only 1 inch in diameter, making it less than half the diameter of the large intestine. 
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. There are two openings to the digestive tract. The anterior opening of the digestive tract is the mouth or oral cavity, and the posterior opening of the digestive tract is the anus. there are four layers in the digestive tract: the inner most layer is the mucosal layer the second is the sub-mucosal layer then cones the muscular layer responsible for peri … stalisis e.g..teh circular muscle and the longitudinal muscles the outermost layer is a thin membrane known as the serous coat.