Also called elimination communication or natural infant hygiene, infant potty training is the practice of introducing your baby to the toilet or potty at a very early age – usually between birth and 4 months. While the notion of potty training a very young infant seems radical to many American parents, it's not a new idea. Before 1950, most children in the United States were toilet trained by 18 months. And today, most African, Asian, and European babies are trained well before their second birthday.
Some parents start toilet training when their babies are younger than four months. This is done by watching for signs of an imminent wee or poo and catching it in the toilet. This method is called elimination communication. Healthy children aren't physically and emotionally ready to start using the toilet until they are between 18 months and three years old. Boys tend to be ready a few months later than girls. Most parents start the training when their children are between two years and three years old. But there's no official age, and you needn't toilet train your toddler at all if you don't want to
Yes | No Thank you! My DD is learning to use the 'potty' and doing terrific. She is now 13 months old. I started teaching her sign language as a tiny baby (signing as I talked to her). She began doing the sign for 'potty' when she needed to be changed (about 5 1/2-6 months old). By 9 months she started signing 'potty' as she went & at 10 months she consistently signed before she went. She has been using a potty chair (or the small travel seat I bought for when we're out) for over 4 months.
Some parents start potty training when their babies are younger than four months. This is done by watching for signs of an imminent wee or poo and catching it in the potty. This method is called elimination communication. All of this doesn't happen in most children until the age of about three years or four years. This is regardless of when you start potty training, or how you go about it.
So many mothers are upset at the idea of infant potty training when that's the norm around the world! In our country, a whopping 95% of babies were potty trained by 18 months until the 1960s. It's not cruel to sit your baby on their little potty when they have to go to the bathroom. She began doing the sign for 'potty' when she needed to be changed (about 5 1/2-6 months old). By 9 months she started signing 'potty' as she went & at 10 months she consistently signed before she went. She has been using a potty chair (or the small travel seat I bought for when we're out) for over 4 months.
You shouldn't force your child to use a potty if she doesn't want to, or if she is not ready to start. Some parents start potty training when their babies are younger than four months. This is done by watching for signs of an imminent pee or poo and catching it in the potty. This method is called elimination communication. 
Your child must be both physically and emotionally ready for toilet training. Most children are ready to start when they are between 22 and 30 months of age, but every child is different. Toilet training usually becomes a long and frustrating process if you try to start it before your child is ready. Before children can use the toilet, they must be able to control their bowel and bladder muscles.
The best time is when your child shows signs of readiness, and not before. Healthy children aren't physically and emotionally ready to start using a potty until they are between 18 months and three years old. Boys tend to be ready a few months later than girls. However, it's also true that some parents start toilet training when their babies are very small, younger than four months. This is done by watching for signs of an imminent pee or poo and catching it in the potty. 
Most parents start the training when their children are between two years and three years old. But there's no official age, and you needn't potty train your toddler at all if you don't want to. All of this doesn't happen in most children until the age of about three years or four years. This is regardless of when you start potty training, or how you go about it.