Marius Ivanovich Petipa (ru. мариус иванович петипа), born Victor Marius Alphonse Petipa (11 March 1818 – 14 July [ O.S. 1 July] 1910) was a French ballet dancer, teacher and choreographer. Petipa is considered to be the most influential ballet master and choreographer in ballet history. In spite of his vast accomplishments, Petipa's final years with the Imperial Ballet were difficult. By 1901 Pierina Legnani had retired from the stage to her native Italy, having given up in her rivalry with Mathilde Kschessinskaya. Petipa thoroughly despised Kschessinskaya, referring to her as  ...
This ballet led to other ballets and eventually to what the world considers Classical Ballet. In 1869 Petipa took over the position of Ballet Master in Chief to the Imperial Tsar. In his role of leadership Petipa created many multi-and single-act ballets for presentation on the imperial stages of Russia. In 1869 he went to Moscow and created Don Quixote for the ballet of the Bolshoi Theatre in Moscow. Swan Lake, set to Tchaikovsky's first ballet score was the first of the Big Three of Russian Ballet. Originally set by Austrian Wenzel Reisinger, (1827-1892), Swan Lake has been reworked by many people including Joseph Hansen, (1842-1907), and then again by Petipa in 1895.
The son of Jean Petipa, an excellent ballet dancer and teacher himself, Marius Petipa was the second of the two boys that made up this dancing family. Petipa's older brother by three years, Lucien, ended up as a dancer and ballet master at the Paris Opera. Marius Petipa was born in 1818 in Marseille, France. He received his early training, starting at the age of seven, with his brother from their father. Petipa married another dancer, Marie Scurvshikova, in 1854, the same year he became an instructor at the Imperial Ballet School in St. Petersburg and in 1857 Marius and Marie had a daughter together, also named Marie.
Marius Petipa. Classical ballet developed in the late 19th century when Marius Petipa was ballet master in St Petersburg. Classical ballet is a mixture of the French style of Romantic ballet, the techniques developed in Italy in the late 19th century, and Russian teaching. Now, Tchaikovsky’s familiar music is one reason for the ballet’s enduring popularity. Most versions today are based on the St Petersburg 1894 production, choreographed by Marius Petipa and Lev Ivanov, which is regarded as one of the greatest ballets of all time.
When most people talk about ballet they think of Petipa’s ballets, Swan Lake and The Sleeping Beauty. Like most theatre in the 1890s, classical ballets were spectacular, realistic and performances lasted a full evening. Now, Tchaikovsky’s familiar music is one reason for the ballet’s enduring popularity. Most versions today are based on the St Petersburg 1894 production, choreographed by Marius Petipa and Lev Ivanov, which is regarded as one of the greatest ballets of all time.
Marius Petipa is noted for his long career as Premier maitre maître de ballet of The. St Petersburg Imperial, theatres a position he held from 1871 until. 1903 In spite of his vast accomplishments, Petipa's final years with the Imperial Ballet were difficult. By 1901 Pierina Legnani had retired from the stage to her native Italy, having given up in her rivalry with Mathilde Kschessinskaya. Petipa thoroughly despised Kschessinskaya, referring to her as  ...
During the 1880s Petipa restaged in Russia two ballets that had been very successful in Paris. The first was Giselle which he had been involved in the first time, and the second was Saint-Leon'léon S, (coppelia coppélia originally presented). in 1870 Swan Lake, set to Tchaikovsky's first ballet score was the first of the Big Three of Russian Ballet. Originally set by Austrian Wenzel Reisinger, (1827-1892), Swan Lake has been reworked by many people including Joseph Hansen, (1842-1907), and then again by Petipa in 1895.
SWAN LAKE, 1895 PETIPA-IVANOV PRODUCTION. BALLETS RUSSES WAS AN ITINERANT BALLET COMPANY WHICH PERFORMED UNDER THE DIRECTORSHIP OF SERGEI DIAGHILEV BETWEEN 1909 AND 1929.THEY PERFORMED IN MANY COUNTRIES, INCLUDING FRANCE, ENGLAND, THE U.S.A., AND SPAIN. 
Marius Petipa in 1898. Petipa was most probably the most influential ballet choreographer there has ever been. He was the Premier Maitre maître De ballet of The. St Petersburg Imperial theatres from 1871 to. 1903 he created a huge number of ballets among which Were Swan, Lake The nutcracker And Sleeping. Beauty even in the one hundredth anniversary of his. Death Marius petipa still remains a partially unknown. figure
Victor Marius Alphonse Petipa (March 11, 1818 - July 14, 1910). Marius Petipa was a French ballet dancer, teacher and choreographer who is noted for his lon g career as Premier Maitre maître De ballet of The. St Petersburg Imperial, theatres a position he held from 1871 until. 1903 His mother Victorine Grasseau was an actress and drama, teacher, while his father, Jean Antoine Petipa was a renowned Ballet Master and teacher. At the time of Marius's birth, Jean Petipa was a Premier danseur to the the Opera opéra De, marseille and in 1819 he was Appointed maitre Maître de ballet to. that theatre