Sandwiches. Burger King’s signature menu item, the Whopper, serves up a 1/4 pound beef patty topped with tomatoes, lettuce, mayonnaise, ketchup, pickles and onions on a sesame seed bun. The Whopper will run you 670 calories and 40 grams of fat. If you’re looking for a lighter selection try the Whopper junior. Sides. Burger King offers various side items in addition to the fast food classic French fries. While a value-sized order of fries runs you 220 calories and 11 grams of fat and a large order runs you 540 calories and 27 grams of fat, you can also choose from onion rings, side salad, chicken tenders or chicken fries.
Flame Broiled Burgers Nutrition Facts. 1  No matching items found. 2  A.1. 3  Bacon Cheeseburger. 4  Bacon Cheeseburger Deluxe. 5  Big King. 6  Cheeseburger. 7  Double Bacon Cheeseburger. 8  Double Cheeseburger. 9  Double Hamburger. 10  Extra Long BBQ Cheeseburger. 11  Hamburger. 12  King Jr. 13  Rodeo Burger. Warning: For medical or nutritional advice, do not rely on this site. Please consult a dietician or medical doctor instead. All Copyrighted and Trademarked information is property of the respective owners.
Click here to see the complete list of Burger King Nutrition Facts. BOTTOM LINE: Burger King doesn’t have many healthy choices to choose from. They have been one of the last fast food chains to embrace healthy changes such as eliminating trans fats and offering healthy menu options. • BK Breakfast Muffin Sandwich: Egg and Cheese: 220 calories, 9 g fat, 4 g saturated fat, 650 mg sodium. *Burger King now posts its nutrition facts and list of ingredients, which is great and I commend them for their transparency.
The nutrition values are for the complete standard product as served. All data displayed follow the Food and Drug Act and Regulation regarding the rounding of nutritional data. Nutrition and ingredient information applies to the Burger King Restaurants of Canada. KRAFT is a registered trademark of Kraft Foods Holdings, Inc. ©Mott’s Fruitsations is a trademark, used under license by Canada Dry Mott’s Inc. ® Registered Trademark of Lassonde Industries Inc. Nutrition information is current as of this publication (March 2014), information subject to change.
Discover the nutritional content of popular Burger King menu items for breakfast, lunch and dinner. If you ever wondered how many calories are in Burger King's food then continue reading for the answers and more. Sides. Burger King offers various side items in addition to the fast food classic French fries. While a value-sized order of fries runs you 220 calories and 11 grams of fat and a large order runs you 540 calories and 27 grams of fat, you can also choose from onion rings, side salad, chicken tenders or chicken fries.
1 -Products that are fried in a shared fryer include but may not be limited to:Fish Filet, Pork Sausage, Crispy Chicken patty, Chicken Nuggets, Original Chicken Patty, Spicy Chicken Patty, Hash browns, French Fries, French Toast Sticks, and Onion Rings. Fryer oil contains: corn, canola, soy and or/cottonseed oils. Important Information: TM & © 2012 Burger King Corporation. All Rights Reserved. © 2012 The Coca-Cola Company. Coca-Cola, Coca-Cola Classic, Diet Coke, Sprite ICEE and Minute Maid are registered trademarks of t
Some gluten-free foods include burger patties without buns, grilled chicken filets, bacon, vegetables, cheeses, and ice cream. Vegetarians may opt for veggie burgers or salads, though the veggie burger contains both dairy and eggs and availability may vary by location. Are you looking for a Burger King calorie counter online? Well, the chart below will help you find nutritional information about Burger King food. Usual meals found on the Burger King menu combine food options, with choices of sandwiches, fries or onion rings, and soft drinks
The Whopper. The Whopper is one of the big hamburgers you can order off the Burger King Menu. It has beef, buns, lettuce, cheese, sauce and much much more! 
Burger King Nutrition Facts. In 2008, Burger King made a pledge to eliminate trans fat from its foods [1] . As I analyzed BK’s list of nutrition facts and ingredients, I was shocked to see that the following foods still contain partially hydrogenated oil (which is another name for trans fat): 1. Tendergrill Chicken Filet. 2. Breaded Original Chicken Patty. 3. BK Fish Filet. 4. Biscuit. 5. Chocolate Fudge Topping. 6. • BK Breakfast Muffin Sandwich: Egg and Cheese: 220 calories, 9 g fat, 4 g saturated fat, 650 mg sodium. *Burger King now posts its nutrition facts and list of ingredients, which is great and I commend them for their transparency.