The most common belief is that Courtney Love gave Kurt's Jaguar to Eric Erlandson (former Geffen employee and guitar player for Hole). It was last seen in Hole's Doll Parts video and Courtney was known to have given away a few of Kurt's guitars after his death (Jagstang, Musicmaster, Mustang). According to Courtney Love, Frances Bean is set to inherit the lyrics to Teen Spirit, a sweater and one of Kurt's guitars. Since this is perhaps the most important and notable instrument in Nirvana's history it is a possibility that this is the guitar that Frances Bean is set to inherit.
On April 8, 1994, Cobain was found dead at his home in Seattle, the victim of what was officially ruled a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the head. As far as the Kurt’s gear goes, he had a pretty high tolerance level towards what kind of a guitar he happened to be playing. In mid 1993 Fender found out that Kurt had an idea for a guitar. They sent out a couple of guys to talk with Kurt at his Hollywood home, and they agreed to start working on what would eventually become the Jag-stang.
Kurt's main guitars were Fenders: the Mustang and Jag-Stang. He also used Gibson Les Pauls, Fender Strats and Teles, and cheap pawn-shop guitars for his thrashing on-stage antics. Many of his guitars were custom and modified. He often used Vintage and hard to find models and makes. Kurt didn't use a lot of effects, but those he did use were very important to his overall tone. … Most important to Cobain's sound were his distortion and phaser pedals. The Small Clone Full-Chorus by Electro Harmonix and the SansAmp Tri-A.C. are our two favorites for their unique tone
A Jaguar modeled after the guitars of players such as Kurt Cobain. This Jaguar has two Fender Enforcer humbuckers which are able to be coil-tapped, a Gibson-style Tune-O-Matic bridge, and the vibrato-bar tailpiece has been moved closer to the bridge. It is made in Mexico. Fender Jaguar model; a replica of the 1965 Fender Jaguar that Kurt Cobain used. Equipped with DiMarzio humbuckers, Gotoh tuners, and a Tune-o-matic bridge. It is currently the only active Jaguar that is sold left-handed along with right-handed.
Best Answer: Kurt Cobain played almost exclusively on Fender electric guitars with the exception of the Unplugged in New York Album. For the Unplugged album, he used a modified Martin D-18 acoustic guitar. For his other albums and live performances, Cobain was very fond of older vintage Fender guitars. He often used a Fender Mustang or Fender Jaguar. His affinity for those guitars actually led to the release of a signiture guitar from Fender called the Jagstang which was a combination of the two. Cobain did modify his guitars.
The FENDER ® Kurt Cobain Jaguar ® is an exact replica of Kurt's famed guitar, down to the humbucking pickups and unique controls. Take it from the Sweetwater crew-the Fender Kurt Cobain Jaguar will give you years of inspired performances! Fender has included DiMarzio pickups just like Kurt's guitar. A DiMarzio DP103 PAF 36th anniversary neck pickup and a DP100 Super Distortion bridge pickup are ready to give you grunge tones with fury and fire.
Before its launch, Kurt Cobain's Jaguar got a lot of people talking, especially due to the possible incompatibility between the grunge spirit and the signature and relic guitars trend. So... is this guitar a real instrument or a shameful business idea using the name of one of the most popular lefty rock icons. 