; अयान. Name Ayaan generally means Gods Gift, is of Indian origin, Name Ayaan is a Masculine (or Boy) name. This name is shared across persons, who are either Muslim or Hindu by religion. Name Ayaan belongs to rashi Mesh (Aries) with dominant planet Mars (Mangal) and Nakshatra (stars) Krithika.
Ayaan. The baby boy name Ayaan comes from the Indian word which means, Unknown.. Unknown word which means, rays of rising sun.. Arabian word which means, A spring with multiple streams and sides...basically a dynamic spring... Quran word which means, This word Ayaan is in Quran, Chapter Number 27. Surah Al Naml, Verse Number 65.
Find qualities of Aries (Mesh) or Find Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Ayaan or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday or Find compatibility of Mesh (Aries) with other zodiac signs. Similar sounding names: Ayan, Ayn, Ayane, Aiyana, Ayona, Ayano, Aayan. This name is shared across persons, who are either Muslim or Hindu by religion. Name Ayaan belongs to rashi Mesh (Aries) with dominant planet Mars (Mangal) and Nakshatra (stars) Krithika.
The Arabian word which means, A spring with multiple streams and sides basically a dynamic spring. Find Ayaan meaning and definition at Hamariweb.com name dictionary a Best place to find your accurate name meanings in Urdu. Ayaan name reviews, Origin, gender, rating and many more about Ayaan. My one muslim friend name is also Ayaan and the meaning is also same in the religion of islam. He is a very charming person. I am Ayaan masood from dehli, I just tell you ayaan is a name of muslims, this is an arabic word. 1  1. 2  2
Meaning of name Ayaan, Origin of name Ayaan, Personality of name Ayaan, Gallery of Cute Indian Baby Pictures of Ayaan and adorable Baby boy Photos of Ayaan. All this and lots more... If you believe in Numerology, click to see if the name Ayaan is lucky! 
Is ayaan a male Muslim name? yes ayaan is a male Muslim name whose meaning are Gift of God The word ayaan is an Arabic word mentioned in the holy Quran,it's used as a question tool. Some uses it as a … male name. 3 people found this useful. 1  Planning the Perfect Spa Day With Your Friends You work hard, and you sure play hard. 
Find Aayan meaning and definition at Hamariweb.com name dictionary a Best place to find your accurate name meanings in Urdu. Aayan name reviews, Origin, gender, rating an many more about Aayan. 