The term pulse, as used by the United Nations ' Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO), is reserved for crops harvested solely for the dry seed. This excludes green beans and green peas, which are considered vegetable crops.
Introducing pulses, the protein-packed seeds of dry peas, lentils and chickpeas. Pulses are high in fiber, antioxidants, calcium and iron. And they taste great. Think of pulses as comfort food that’s good for you.
1 Dried peas, edible beans, lentils and chickpeas are the most common varieties of pulses. 2  Pulses are very high in protein and fibre, and are low in fat. 3  Like their cousins in the legume family, pulses are nitrogen-fixing crops that improve the environmental sustainability of annual cropping systems.
INCLUDE MORE PULSES ON YOUR MENU p ulses, which include chickpeas/garbanzo beans, dry peas and lentils, are increasingly being recognized for their role in promoting good health. Researchers have reported that regular consumption of pulses may reduce the risk of heart disease, diabetes and certain types of cancer.
A pulse (from Latin: puls, from Ancient Greek πόλτος: poltos  porridge ), sometimes called a grain legume , is an annual leguminous crop yielding from one to twelve seeds of variable size, shape, and color within a pod. Pulses are used as food for humans and other animals. Included in the pulses are: dry beans like pinto beans, kidney beans and navy beans; dry peas; lentils; and others. Like many leguminous crops, pulses play a key role in crop rotation due to their ability to fix nitrogen.
Pulses include beans, lentils and peas. They are a cheap, low-fat source of protein, fibre, vitamins and minerals, and they count towards your recommended five daily portions of fruit and vegetables. A pulse is an edible seed that grows in a pod.
1 Pulses are part of the legume family, but the term “pulse” refers only to the dried seed. 2  Dried peas, edible beans, lentils and chickpeas are the most common varieties of pulses. 3  Pulses are very high in protein and fibre, and are low in fat.