Other animal-like protists lack a cell wall or protective test. The fungi-like protists are actually not evolutionarily related to fungi, although they do take in food by absorption. Like plants, however, their cell walls are made of cellulose. Animal-like protist. There will likely be changes in this grouping as the science of classification progresses. The majority of organisms classified as protists are unicellular though there are a few multicellular organisms. For example, kelp (“seaweed”) is technically a protist even though it is multicellular. Kelp is not grouped with plants, however, because it lacks the cellular complexity present in plant cells
Animal-like protists include some well-known species. Paramecia and amoeba are frequently used examples of single-celled organisms. Malaria, a world-wide disease occurring in tropical climates, is caused by an animal-like protist, the Plasmodium. There will likely be changes in this grouping as the science of classification progresses. The majority of organisms classified as protists are unicellular though there are a few multicellular organisms. For example, kelp (“seaweed”) is technically a protist even though it is multicellular. Kelp is not grouped with plants, however, because it lacks the cellular complexity present in plant cells
Click Here to return to the search form. To understand how kelp became members of the Protista, one must delve into the convoluted and messy history of systematics. Early attempts at organizing life into a classification system usually separated all organisms as either plants or animals. According to this grouping, kelp and other algae were considered to be very primitive plant forms, along with fungi, molds, and many other types of organisms.
In all biological taxonomy schemes, protists (/ˈproʊtɨst/) were a large group of diverse eukaryotic microorganisms, mainly unicellular animals and plants, that do not form tissues. Formerly, these were assigned to the now-obsolete kingdom Protista. Protists live in almost any environment that contains liquid water. Many protists, such as algae, are photosynthetic and are vital primary producers in ecosystems, particularly in the ocean as part of the plankton.
This group contains plant-like, animal-like, and fungus-like organisms. This grouping is not based on evolutionary relationships but is more a grouping of convenience — the protists are the eukaryotes that aren’t plants, animals, or fungi. There will likely be changes in this grouping as the science of classification progresses. The majority of organisms classified as protists are unicellular though there are a few multicellular organisms. For example, kelp (“seaweed”) is technically a protist even though it is multicellular. Kelp is not grouped with plants, however, because it lacks the cellular complexity present in plant cells
Actually, it is a protist and it gets nutrients from photosynthesis. Yep, kelps are seaweeds, but they are actually from the Kingdom Protista (i.e. protists). They belong to the Class Phaeophyceae which are protists, not plants (although clearly, they are plant like). Kelp do not eat sunlight, and kelp is NOT a plant. Kelp makes its own food by a process called photosynthesis. Kelp is a protist fro … m the kingdom of Protista, it is not a plant Good grief-kelp is a seaweed, not a protist.
Kelps are large seaweeds (algae) belonging to the brown algae (Phaeophyceae) in the order Laminariales. There are about 30 different genera. Kelp grows in underwater forests  (kelp forests) in shallow oceans, and is thought to have appeared in the Miocene, 23 to 5 million years ago. The organisms require nutrient-rich water with temperatures between 6 and 14 °C (43 and 57 °F). Kombu is used to flavor broths and stews (especially dashi), as a savory garnish (tororo konbu) for rice and other dishes, as a vegetable, and a primary ingredient in popular snacks (such as tsukudani). Transparent sheets of kelp (oboro konbu) are used as an edible decorative wrapping for rice and other foods.
Many are minute: The green alga Nanochlorum is only 0.01 mm (0.0004 in) long. Giant kelps can grow to 65 m (210 ft) or more in length. Some protists form structures known as. that are resistant to chemicals and drying and that disperse in the environment. Spores are often the infectious stage of organisms that cause diseases in humans when ingested. Because the Protista are so diverse in form, classification within the kingdom has proved difficult. The classification of the Protista is currently based largely on the structure and organization of the cell, the presence of organelles, and the pattern of reproduction or life cycles.
Sunlight. It's a plant, not an animal. Kelp do not eat sunlight, and kelp is NOT a plant. Kelp makes its own food by a process called photosynthesis. Kelp is a protist fro … m the kingdom of Protista, it is not a plant Good grief-kelp is a seaweed, not a protist. It is one of the brown algae, and indeed uses sunlight as the energy source to make its own food