The cell sap vacuole in plants is much larger than animals. In plant cells the vacuoles are usually large and permament and have the same function. In addition to storing impo … rtant substances, it also helps support the plant. The pressure of water filling the cell vacuole pushes out against the cell wall. 
Vacuoles and lysosomes have similar functions. Vacuoles in plant cells are in some respects the equivalent of lysosomes in animal cells. The environment inside a vacuole is slightly acid (pH about 5.0) whilst for the rest of the cytosol it is slightly alkaline (about pH 7.2). 
Vacuole. Definition. noun, plural: vacuoles. A membrane-bound vesicle found in the cytoplasm of a cell whose function includes intracellular secretion, excretion, storage, and digestion. Supplement. It can be found in animal and plant cells, and it can be especially conspicuous in plant cells. Word origin: Latin vacuolum, diminutive form of vacuum.
Many plant cells have a large, single central vacuole that typically takes up most of the room in the cell (80 percent or more). Vacuoles in animal cells, however, tend to be much smaller, and are more commonly used to temporarily store materials or to transport substances. 
The central vacuole is a cellular organelle found in plant cells. It is often the largest organelle in the cell. It is surrounded by a membrane and functions to hold materials and wastes. It also functions to maintain the proper pressure within the plant cells to provide structure and support for the growing plant. This organelle is known as the central vacuole. The central vacuole is a membrane-bound organelle containing water and other enzymes that function during the life of the plant. Structurally, the central vacuole is surrounded by a phospholipid bilayer.
Animal cell contains membrane bound nucleus, it also contains other membrane bound cellular organelles. These cellular organelles carry out specific functions that are necessary for the normal functioning of the cell. A nimal cells lack cell wall, a large vacuole and plastids. 
A vacuole is a cell organelle found in a number of different cell types. Vacuoles are fluid-filled, enclosed structures that are separated from the cytoplasm by a single membrane. They are found mostly in plant cells and fungi. However, some protist, animal cells, and bacteria also contain vacuoles. Vacuoles are responsible for a wide variety of important functions in a cell including nutrient storage, detoxification, and waste exportation. A plant cell vacuole is surrounded by a single membrane called the tonoplast. Plant cell vacuoles perform a number of functions in a cell including: Plant vacuoles function similarly in plants as lysosomes in animal cells. Lysosomes are membranous sacs of enzymes that digest cellular macromolecules. Vacuoles and lysosomes also participate in programmed cell death.
A vacuole (/ˈvaekjuːoʊl/) ˈvækjuːoʊl is a-membrane bound organelle which is present in all plant and fungal cells and some, protist animal and bacterial. cells In general, the functions of the vacuole include: 1  Isolating materials that might be harmful or a threat to the cell. 2  Containing waste products. 3  Containing water in plant cells.
The function and significance of vacuoles varies greatly according to the type of cell in which they are present, having much greater prominence in the cells of plants, fungi and certain protists than those of animals and bacteria. In general, the functions of the vacuole include: 1  Isolating materials that might be harmful or a threat to the cell. 2  Containing waste products. 3  Containing water in plant cells.
The cell sap vacuole in plants is much larger than animals. In plant cells the vacuoles are usually large and permament and have the same function. In addition to storing impo … rtant substances, it also helps support the plant. The pressure of water filling the cell vacuole pushes out against the cell wall. 