Rubies are the world’s most expensive gemstones, the best Burmese rubies being valued more than an equivalent-sized flawless diamond. 1 The world record paid at auction for a ruby is U.S. $3.63 million in 1988 for a 15.97 carat Burmese ruby (U.S. $227,300 per carat). Rubies and sapphires are the most important colored gemstones in the gem trade, together accounting for over 50% of global gem production. 1. Rubies are far less abundant than blue sapphires of similar quality and thus are of more value.
Ruby is the red variety of corundum. It is quite a bit rarer than the blue gems. The rarity combined with the demand for rich red gems keeps the price very high. Among rubies though, there is no shortage of small gems, the kind used in cluster rings. They are somewhat expensive, but readily available. The Carmen Lucia Ruby is an incredibly rare ruby due to both its size and quality. It is when you get into gems of a carat of more that they get really expensive. Good quality rubies in this size range are few and far between.
The Ruby very finest and top quality. Is so rare that it has been the earth’s mostly valued stone for thousands of years. In truth, even today, guiltless top finest rubies are more rare and valuable than top nature colorless of diamonds. The Ruby 16 carat sold at auction for $227,301 per carat at Sotheby’s in 1988.
Why are rubies so important and how are they so valuable? Rubies are first mentioned in the biblical times of Job, around 2000 BC and in the Proverbs. They are now considered one of the world’s most expensive gemstone. You can expect to pay about $15,000 and up per carat for a top quality ruby, larger than 1 carat. It is one of the most beautiful stones created by nature. So, knowing the history of the precious ruby stones helps us to understand why they were used in comparison to wisdom. Proverbs 8:11 says, “For wisdom is far more valuable than rubies.
In nature diamonds are rare, but not so in the gem world. Rubies and sapphires are different colored varieties of the mineral corundum. Now corundum is a fairly common mineral. Second only to diamond in hardness it has been mined extensively for abrasives. The emery on your emery boards and sand paper may contain corundum. They are somewhat expensive, but readily available. The Carmen Lucia Ruby is an incredibly rare ruby due to both its size and quality. It is when you get into gems of a carat of more that they get really expensive. Good quality rubies in this size range are few and far between.
These are actually Spinels not Rubies. Prior to the 20th century, Rubies were considered more valuable than Diamonds, and in the mid-16th century a fine Ruby was priced at 8 times more valuable than a comparable Diamond. Today an exceptionally fine Ruby of 3 carats or more will still command a higher price then a Diamond of the same size. Famous Rubies. 
Ruby Value, Price, and Jewelry Information. Rubies are the most valuable members of the corundum family. Large gem quality rubies can be more valuable than comparably sized diamonds and are certainly rarer. There is a relative abundance of smaller, (1-3 carat,) blue sapphires compared to the scarcity of even small gem quality rubies, making even these smaller stones relatively high in value. Ed. list a wide range of wholesale prices for faceted gem rubies. Prices are dependent on origin, color, size, and clarity: from a low of $100 to $15,000/ ct maximum. Burmese stones in 1/2 to 1 ct sizes with slightly purplish red color and light inclusions range from $300 to $3000/ ct, for example.
Depending on the quality A ruby can be more valuable then the equivalent size diamond most however are not. Most rubies are heat treated to improve their colour or to remove imperfections this is acceptable only when the seller or jeweller is truthful and mentions that it is treated in this way. Depends on the quality. Treated stones being less valuable than untreated stones of the same appearance and size. Most rubies are treated. Some are filled with lead glass to improve the transparency. These stones are worthless.
Rubies are made of corundum with chromium present as an impurity. The brightest red-and thus most valuable-rubies are usually from Burma. Dark and violet red rubies come principally from Thailand. Small quantities of rubies are also found in Sri Lanka, Cambodia, Pakistan, India, and Tanzania. 