Chyme slowly passes through the pyloric sphincter and into the duodenum, where the extraction of nutrients begins. Depending on the quantity and contents of the meal, the stomach will digest the food into chyme in anywhere between 40 minutes to a few hours. With a pH of approximately 2, chyme emerging from the stomach is very acidic. The duodenum secretes a hormone, cholecystokinin (CCK), which causes the gall bladder to contract, releasing alkaline bile into the duodenum. CCK also causes the release of digestive enzymes from the pancrea
Chyme (/kaɪm/ ; from Greek χυμός khymos, juice) is the semifluid mass of partly digested food that is expelled by the stomach into the duodenum and moves through the intestines during digestion. With a pH of approximately 2, chyme emerging from the stomach is very acidic. The duodenum secretes a hormone, cholecystokinin (CCK), which causes the gall bladder to contract, releasing alkaline bile into the duodenum. CCK also causes the release of digestive enzymes from the pancreas
chyme. the semifluid, homogeneous, creamy or gruel-like material produced by action of the gastric juice on ingested food in the stomach and discharged through the pylorus into the duodenum. chyme. [kīm]. Etymology: Gk, chymos, juice. the viscous, semifluid contents of the stomach present during digestion of a meal. Chyme then passes through the pylorus into the duodenum, where further digestion occurs. The mass of partially digested food goo that passes from the pylorus 
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. Chyme is the partially digested mass of food that is forced into the small intestine. It has a low Ph balance that is countered by the production of bile, helping to further digest food. Chyme combined with bile ultimately is secreted from the body in the form of bowel movements. When chyme enters the small intestine, it actually stimulates the production of bile to break down remaining food masses. Depending upon the make-up of the material, larger amounts of bile may be released into the stomach.
Bolus is the food that is mashed up in your mouth. After it is digested in the stomach, the food is called chyme. Bolus is more alkaline than chyme because it is exposed to a … lkaline saliva. Teeth and saliva turn food into bolus. It is then swallowed and passes through the esophagus into the stomach. Chyme has a higher acidity content than bolus because it was exposed to hydrochloric acid in the stomach. Chyme enters the small intestine after digestion in the stomach. 69 people found this useful.
Chyme is produced in the stomach. It is the term given to food in the stomach which has been partly digested by enzymes there. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: it is produced by mixing food from the oesophagus with acids from the stomach to produce a thick semi-liquid.
chyme (kym) n. the semiliquid acid mass that is the form in which food passes from the stomach to the small intestine. It is produced by the action of gastric juice and the churning of the stomach. Cite this article. Pick a style below, and copy the text for your bibliography. MLA. Chicago. APA.  chyme. . . 2008. 
Chyme has a low pH that is countered by the production of bile, helping to further digest food. Chyme is part liquid and part solid: a thick semifluid mass of partially digested food and digestive secretions that is formed in the stomach and small intestine during digestion. With a pH of approximately 2, chyme emerging from the stomach is very acidic. The duodenum secretes a hormone, cholecystokinin (CCK), which causes the gall bladder to contract, releasing alkaline bile into the duodenum. CCK also causes the release of digestive enzymes from the pancreas