struc•ture. 1. the manner in which something is constructed. 2. the manner in which the elements of anything are organized or interrelated: the structure of a poem; the structure of protein. 3. something constructed, as a building or bridge. 4. anything composed of organized or interrelated elements. 5. the construction and arrangement of body parts, tissues, or organs. 6
Word Root of STRUCTURE. The Latin word struere, meaning “ to build, ” and its form structus give us the root struct. Words from the Latin struere have something to do with building. A struct ure is something that was built, such as a house. To con struct is to build by combining parts together. Examples of STRUCTURE. 1  They studied the compound's molecular structure. 2  The film had a simple narrative structure. 3  the structure of a plant. 4  the social structure of a college campus. 5  changes to the company's power structure. 6  The structure was damaged by fire. 7  Children need a lot of structure in their lives.
structure. Construction or framework of identifiable elements (components, entities, factors, members, parts, steps, etc.) which gives form and stability, and resists stresses and strains.
Medical Definition of STRUCTURE. 1. : something (as an anatomical part) arranged in a definite pattern of organization. 2. 3. : the aggregate of elements of an entity in their relationships to each other. Examples of STRUCTURE. 1  They studied the compound's molecular structure. 2  The film had a simple narrative structure. 3  the structure of a plant. 4  the social structure of a college campus. 5  changes to the company's power structure. 6  The structure was damaged by fire. 7  Children need a lot of structure in their lives.
Elements of Structure. While the need for structure is clear, the best structure for a particular coalition is harder to determine. The best structure for any organization will depend upon who its members are, what the setting is, and how far the organization has come in its development. 1 Your group is going to have some structure whether it chooses to or not. 2  It might as well be the structure which best matches up with what kind of organization you have, what kind of people are in it, and what you see yourself doing.
Tweet. : the way that something is built, arranged, or organized. : the way that a group of people are organized. : something (such as a house, tower, bridge, etc.) that is built by putting parts together and that usually stands on its own. Examples of STRUCTURE. 1  They studied the compound's molecular structure. 2  The film had a simple narrative structure. 3  the structure of a plant. 4  the social structure of a college campus. 5  changes to the company's power structure. 6  The structure was damaged by fire. 7  Children need a lot of structure in their lives.
1 Structure binds members together. 2  It gives meaning and identity to the people who join the group, as well as to the group itself. 3  Structure in any organization is inevitable -- an organization, by definition, implies a structure. 4  Your group is going to have some structure whether it chooses to or not. 1 Your group is going to have some structure whether it chooses to or not. 2  It might as well be the structure which best matches up with what kind of organization you have, what kind of people are in it, and what you see yourself doing.
Narrative Structure in Literature. To understand what is meant by structures of literature, let's first look at the definition of structure. Structure means 'composed of parts' or 'the organization of something,' when referring to literature. In its simplest form, we can think of literature as written material on a particular topic or subject. The structure of literature can be described as the organizational method of the written material
Structure is an arrangement and organization of interrelated elements in a material object or system, or the object or system so organized. Material structures include man-made objects such as buildings and machines and natural objects such as biological organisms, minerals and chemicals. 