Croatia (Croatian: Hrvatska) is a country situated in Southeast Europe. It is to the east side of the Adriatic Sea, to the east of Italy. It is also bordered by Slovenia to the northwest, Hungary to the north, Bosnia and Herzegovina to the southeast, Serbia in the east, and Montenegro to the south. 
Croatia (/kroʊˈeɪʃə/ kroh-AY-shə; Croatian: Hrvatska [xř̩ʋaːtskaː]), officially the Republic of Croatia (Croatian: Republika Hrvatska, listen (help·info)), is a sovereign state at the crossroads of Central Europe, Southeast Europe, and the Mediterranean. Croatia is located in Central and Southeast Europe, bordering Hungary to the northeast, Serbia to the east, Bosnia and Herzegovina to the southeast, Montenegro to the southeast, the Adriatic Sea to the southwest and Slovenia to the northwest. It lies mostly between latitudes 42° and 47° N and longitudes 13° and 20° E.
Croats mainly live in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and nearby countries Serbia and Slovenia. Likewise, Croats are an officially recognized minority in Austria, Czech Republic, Hungary, Italy, Montenegro, Romania, Serbia, and Slovakia. 1 In Serbia, Croats are a national minority, numbering 70,602 people or 0.94% of population. 2  They mostly live in the region of Vojvodina, where the Croatian language is official (along with five other languages), and the national capital city of Belgrade.
Croats (/kroʊaet, kroʊæt/ ; Kroʊɑːt: Croatian, [hrvati]) xrʋăːti are a nation And South slavic ethnic group at the crossroads Of Central, Europe Southeast, europe and The. Mediterranean croats mainly live In, Croatia bosnia And herzegovina and nearby Countries serbia And. slovenia 1 In Serbia, Croats are a national minority, numbering 70,602 people or 0.94% of population. 2  They mostly live in the region of Vojvodina, where the Croatian language is official (along with five other languages), and the national capital city of Belgrade.
Definition of CROATIAN. 1. : a native or inhabitant of Croatia. 2. : a south Slavic language spoken by the Croatian people. — Croatian adjective. See Croatian defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Croatian is official in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina as well as in the European Union, and is a recognised minority language within Croatian autochthonous communities and minorities in Montenegro, Austria (Burgenland), Italy (Molise), Romania (Caraşova, Lupac) and Serbia (Vojvodina). 1 In Serbia, Croats are a national minority, numbering 70,602 people or 0.94% of population. 2  They mostly live in the region of Vojvodina, where the Croatian language is official (along with five other languages), and the national capital city of Belgrade.
Geography. Croatia is a former Yugoslav republic on the Adriatic Sea. It is about the size of West Virginia. Part of Croatia is a barren, rocky region lying in the Dinaric Alps. The Zagorje region north of the capital, Zagreb, is a land of rolling hills, and the fertile agricultural region of the Pannonian Plain is bordered by the Drava, Danube, and Sava Rivers in the east. Over one-third of Croatia is forested.
Croatia's Adriatic Sea coast contains more than a thousand islands. The country's population is 4.28 million, most of whom are Croats, with the most common religious denomination being Roman Catholicism. The Croats arrived in the area of present-day Croatia during the early part of the 7th century AD. They organised the state into two duchies by the 9th century. Tomislav became the first king by 925, elevating Croatia to the status of a kingdom. Croatia is located in Central and Southeast Europe, bordering Hungary to the northeast, Serbia to the east, Bosnia and Herzegovina to the southeast, Montenegro to the southeast, the Adriatic Sea to the southwest and Slovenia to the northwest. It lies mostly between latitudes 42° and 47° N and longitudes 13° and 20° E.