Regardless, Ali Thomson is a Scottish singer-songwriter and the brother of Doug Thomson, who just happened to spend a good part of the 1970s and early 1980s making huge records for Supertramp. This song is a great example of why I write about one-hit wonders and the charms of these long-forgotten gems. I haven’t heard “Take a Little Rhythm” since about 1981. It’s a great example of a song that lights up the airwaves for a few weeks or even months. But five years later people vaguely remember it.
I’ll admit that when I first heard “Take a Little Rhythm” in 1980, I was CERTAIN the singer was indeed, Paul McCartney because it sounds so much like a mix of “Goodnight Tonight from 1979″ and “Silly Love Songs” from 1976. I was young and foolish. And, yes, a sucker for McCartney’s silly love songs. This song is a great example of why I write about one-hit wonders and the charms of these long-forgotten gems. I haven’t heard “Take a Little Rhythm” since about 1981. It’s a great example of a song that lights up the airwaves for a few weeks or even months. But five years later people vaguely remember it.
Scottish singer and composer Ali Thomson performs a great song from 1980.Enjoy! 1  Music. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
Collage artist, Painter, Photographer, Fat activist. Ali is fascinated with graffiti, riot grrl zines, punk rock flyers, and comics. She works to filter these influences through her traditional methods and training. She has a passion for making work that is beautiful and accessible to a wide range of people. Follow me on Twitter, Tumblr, and Instagram. 
Take a Little Rhythm – Ali Thomson. January 31st, 2011 | 2 Comments. This song is a great example of why I write about one-hit wonders and the charms of these long-forgotten gems. I haven’t heard “Take a Little Rhythm” since about 1981. It’s a great example of a song that lights up the airwaves for a few weeks or even months. But five years later people vaguely remember it.
Ali Thomson (born 1959 in Glasgow) is a Scottish singer-songwriter. His brother is Doug Thomson, of the Alan Bown Set and Supertramp. Ali began singing and playing piano in local bands and moved to London in the 1970s where he worked for Mountain Records as an office helphand. Ali signed to A&M Records in the UK and recorded two albums. A second single, Live Every Minute, charted but did not make the top 40. Thomson also co-wrote Gary Wright 's last hit, 1981's Really Wanna Know You. Ali continues to work in the industry as a songwriter, writing tunes for artists such as A1, Brian Kennedy, Steps, and Lisa Stansfield.
The influence of Ali Thomson's older brother, Doug, is immediately evident on the keys and vibe of this young Scot's debut. Presumably, Thomson looked up to his sib because Doug had gone Hollywood in a big way, playing with Supertramp. Actually, Ali's excellent second single, Live Every Minute, may be as good as anything Supertramp recorded (in the '80s at least). Jaime might be some kind of Hey Joe rewrite, but probably not, as Thomson keeps things light. Saturday Heartbreaker shows there's a little Graham Parker in everyone. Can't fault a guy for striving to make a good commercial record.
Biography by Doug Stone. Ali Thomson climbed the charts in the early '80s with the title track to his melodic set, Take a Little Rhythm. Born in Glasgow, Scotland, young Thomson stayed home and struggled with his multiplication…. Read Full Biography. 1  Biography 2  ↓. Discography 3  ↓. Songs ↓. Ali Thomson climbed the charts in the early '80s with the title track to his melodic set, Take a Little Rhythm. Born in Glasgow, Scotland, young Thomson stayed home and struggled with his multiplication tables while big bro Doug played bass in the British beat sect the Alan Brown Set