Search also in: Web News Encyclopedia Images. seafloor spreading n a series of processes in which new oceanic lithosphere is created at oceanic ridges, spreads away from the ridges, and returns to the earth's interior along Benioff zones, (Also called) ocean floor spreading. seafloor spreading. seafloor spreading. English Collins Dictionary-English Definition & Thesaurus &nbsp. See also: seafood, Sea Lord, seal, sealer. Add your entry in the Collaborative Dictionary.
Definition of SEAFLOOR SPREADING. : the divergence at mid-ocean ridges of the tectonic plates underlying the oceans that is due to upwelling from the earth's interior of magma which solidifies and adds to the spreading plates. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Seafloor spreading. Seafloor spreading is a process that occurs at mid-ocean ridges, where new oceanic crust is formed through volcanic activity and then gradually moves away from the ridge. Seafloor spreading helps explain continental drift in the theory of plate tectonics. When oceanic plates diverge, tensional stress causes fractures to occur in the lithosphere.
Age of oceanic crust; youngest (red) is along spreading centers. Seafloor spreading is a process that occurs at mid-ocean ridges, where new oceanic crust is formed through volcanic activity and then gradually moves away from the ridge. Seafloor spreading helps explain continental drift in the theory of plate tectonics. Earlier theories (e.g. by Alfred Wegener and Alexander du Toit) of continental drift were that continents ploughed through the sea. The idea that the seafloor itself moves (and carries the continents with it) as it expands from a central axis was proposed by Harry Hess from Princeton University in the 1960s.
sea-floor spreading. n. In the theory of plate tectonics, the process by which new oceanic crust is formed by the convective upwelling of magma at mid-ocean ridges, resulting in the continuous lateral displacement of existing oceanic crust. 1. (Geological Science) a series of processes in which new oceanic lithosphere is created at oceanic ridges, spreads away from the ridges, and returns to the earth's interior along subduction zones. Also called: ocean floor spreading.
Role of the Spreading Center. In 1962 Hess proposed that the seafloor was created at mid-ocean ridges, spreading in both directions from the ridge system. At the spreading center, liquid rock called basaltic magma rises from the earth's mantle as it upwells beneath the spreading axis. Abundant evidence supports the major contentions of the seafloor-spreading theory. First, samples of the deep ocean floor show that basaltic oceanic crust and overlying sediment become progressively younger as the mid-ocean ridge is approached, and the sediment cover is thinner near the ridge.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: seafloor spreading (Noun). The outward movement of the seafloor from central underwater ridges as a result of plate tectonics; the major cause of continental drift. Seafloor spreading helps explain continental drift in the theory of plate tectonics. When oceanic plates diverge, tensional stress causes fractures to occur in the lithosphere.
Sea floor spreading is actually the creation of new oceanic  basaltic crust at divergent plate boundaries called mid-ocean  ridges. Material from the asthenosphere becomes m … olten as  convection currents cause it to rise toward the thin upraised  boundary between plates there. Spreading of seafloor occurs at the mid-ocean rifts, where there is a continuous flow of material rising from the mantle. There is not a unanimously accepted theory as to the … cause of the rifting that is taking place. Once the rifting and mantle material inflow has started, however, the conduit is in plac