Instead, contraction is started by the release of neurotransmitter vesicles (membrane bound containers) into the space between the cells. In smooth muscle calcium acts directly on the myosin head-causing cross-bridges to form. The muscle then contracts. 15 people found this useful. The muscle contraction process first happens by a motor neuron being activated. This produces an action potential that passes outward in a ventral root of the spinal cord where it is conveyed to a motor end plate on each muscle fiber.
Muscle cells have special characteristics that make them more effective in their primary task of accomplishing movement through contraction. The three general types of muscle tissue -- smooth, cardiac and skeletal -- all contain elongated cells known also as muscle fibers. An Abundance of Energy. All cells need energy to function, but muscle cells have unusually high energy requirements. They resist the force of gravity, generate heat by shivering, pump blood, move substances through hollow organs and produce strong bodily movements. This vigorous activity is powered by organelles known as mitochondria
The sliding of thin filaments (actin) over and between thick filaments (myosin) produce contraction. ATP is required for the cross-bridge cycle. During muscle contraction the sacomeres and the myofibril elements shorten (decrease in length). There are three types of muscle tissues: skeletal, cardiac and smooth muscles. a. skeletal muscle: multinucleated, striated; attached to bones producing locomotion, general support and posture; producing heat. Contraction is voluntary, and not long-sustained.
Cardiac muscle cells or cardiomyocytes (also known as myocardiocytes or cardiac myocytes) are the muscle cells (myocytes) that make up the cardiac muscle. Each myocardial cell contains myofibrils, which are specialized organelles consisting of long chains of sarcomeres, the fundamental contractile units of muscle cells. Cardiomyocytes show striations similar to those on skeletal muscle cells, but unlike multinucleated skeletal cells, they contain only one nucleus
There isusually one troponin per 6-8 actin molecules.Tropomyosin is a long thin protein that extends between, and binds to, the troponin molecules.When troponin is bound to actin, the tropomyosin is positioned so it prevents the myosin headsfrom contacting actin, thus preventing contraction. 
Describe the events that must occur in the muscle cell before calcium is released from this organelle. 3. Jaw muscle contraction (masseter spasm) is one of the key physical findings seen in David’s case of malignant hyperthermia. Explain how calcium functions to cause contraction of a skeletal muscle cell. 4. Dr. Hodges notes that David’s exhaled carbon dioxide levels are elevated.
Contraction in skeletal muscle begins with a nerve impulse-acetlycholine is released at the neuromuscular junction and binds to receptors in the muscle. The muscle contraction process first happens by a motor neuron being activated. This produces an action potential that passes outward in a ventral root of the spinal cord where it is conveyed to a motor end plate on each muscle fiber.
Actin filaments are connected to the z-plates which form the ends of the sarcomeres. Muscle contraction involves a simultaneous contraction of all the sarcomeres in a cell resulting in shortening of the muscle cell. When a muscle is stimulated to contract, Ca2+ is released from the sarcoplasmic reticulum, binds to troponin which moves and pulls tropomyosin off the myosin binding site, allowing myosin to bind to actin.
A myocyte (also known as a muscle cell) is the type of cell found in muscle tissue. Myocytes are long, tubular cells that develop from myoblasts to form muscles in a process known as myogenesis. 