28.3.2. To enable. clients, set this option in each client's /etc/rc.conf : Then, run this command on each. client: The client now has everything it needs to mount a remote file system. In these examples, the server's name is server and the client's name is client. 
Network file systems and Linux. NFS: As useful as ever and still evolving. Network File System (NFS) has been around since 1984, but it continues to evolve and provide the basis for distributed file systems. Today, NFS (through the pNFS extension) provides scalable access to files distributed across a network. 
Definition: A network file system-NFS is a technology for sharing resources between devices on a local area network (LAN) . NFS allows data to be stored on central servers and easily accessed from client devices in a client/server network configuration via a process called mounting.
Network File System. A little bit of testing and tuning can yield big results. The Network File System is still commonly used to connect desktops to file shares and to interconnect compute nodes in high-performance clusters. By tuning NFS — using just a handful of parameters and measurements — you can help clients and servers run at peak performance. Heres how. By Mark F. Komarinski
Network File Ssystem: Advantages / Disadvantages. Before you make a decision to setup NFS it is a good idea to consider the advantages and disadvantages of NFS. Advantages: There is no doubt about it, files on a network will need to be shared at some time. One major advantage that NFS provides is central management. 
Check Point UTM-1. The Network File System (NFS) is a client / server application that lets a computer user view and optionally store and update file on a remote computer as though they were on the user's own computer. The user's system needs to have an NFS client and the other computer needs the NFS server.
I have a comment for the Knowledge Base. 1  Fill out this form to submit your comment to the IU Knowledge Base. 2  If you are affiliated with Indiana University and need help with a computing problem, please use the I need help with a computing problem section above, or contact your campus Support Center. 
Let’s look at how to tweak your Network File System configuration and measure the effects. NFS Server Considerations. Because NFS mounts one machine’s filesystems to another machine, the performance of NFS can be affected by all “points” — software and hardware — that connect the two endpoints. The Network File System is still commonly used to connect desktops to file shares and to interconnect compute nodes in high-performance clusters. By tuning NFS — using just a handful of parameters and measurements — you can help clients and servers run at peak performance. Heres how.
The Cluster file system uses the inter-server network to notify the Cluster File Systems on other computers that this block is being modified. The Cluster File Systems remove the old, obsolete copy of the block data from their caches. The Cluster File System passes the request to the regular File System. Storage Area Network is a special type of network that connects computers and disk devices; in the same way as SCSI cables connect disk devices to one computer. Any computer connected to SAN can send disk commands to any disk device connected to the same SAN.
The Network File System. NFS offers a number of advantages: 1  Data accessed by all users can be kept on a central host, with clients mounting this directory at boot time. 2  For example, you can keep all user accounts on one host, and have all hosts on your network mount /home from that host. 