Once out of the shell, you can keep eggs whites for about a week in the refrigerator and egg yolks will keep for two or three days, although be sure to cover them with water). Depending on the size of your egg, they will need to simmer for 2-3 minutes for soft boiled, about 4-5 minutes for medium and 15-20 minutes for hard boiled. Drain the eggs and immerse them immediately in cold water to stop the cooking process. Refrigerated boiled eggs will keep for about a week
Raw eggs keep a lot longer. Interestingly, hard-boiled eggs do not keep nearly as long as raw eggs, which can last three to five weeks in the refrigerator. There is a good reason for this. When a hen lays an egg, it puts a naturally protective coating on the outside of the shell. With egg dyeing just around the corner, many may be wondering how long hard-boiled eggs can be kept before they spoil. Generally, hard-boiled eggs can last a week
Hard boiled eggs last about 7 days, but can spoil quickly if not handled properly. Hard boiled eggs are fresh whole eggs that have been boiled for 10 minutes. Chicken eggs are the most common choice for this process. Hard boiled eggs must be refrigerated. You can extend the answer to how long do hard boiled eggs last by storing them in your fridge (refrigerator) immediately after preparation or use. Once prepared, hard boiled eggs should be stored in a tightly closed container in the fridge to keep out moisture and other contaminant
Header image: CHOW. Hard-boiled eggs last about a week if they are kept in their shells, and should be refrigerated within two hours of cooking, says the USDA Food Safety and Inspection Service. 
4. The number of days deviled eggs or egg salad can be saved in the refrigerator and still be edible. Hard-boiled eggs still in their shells can keep for a week in the fridge, and raw eggs in their shells can stay fresh three to five weeks from the purchase date, even if the sell-by date has passed. (Source: 1.usa.gov/160UJdA).
Hard-boiled eggs, peeled or unpeeled, are still safe to eat up to one week after they were cooked. Keep them stored in the refrigerator, and you should consider writing the boiling date on each egg to know if they're still good! Kitchen Fact Source: Playing It Safe With Eggs from the Food and Drug Administration. 
No Follow. Refrigerate leftover hard-cooked eggs in the shell within two hours of cooking them and they should keep well for over one to one and a half weeks. It's best to place them in a container or plastic bag so they don't absorb refrigerator smells and flavors. 
Raw eggs keep a lot longer. Interestingly, hard-boiled eggs do not keep nearly as long as raw eggs, which can last three to five weeks in the refrigerator. There is a good reason for this. When a hen lays an egg, it puts a naturally protective coating on the outside of the shell. View full size H