A physical property of a pure substance is anything that can be observed without changing the identity (that is, the chemical nature) of the substance. The obervations usually consist of some type of numerical measurement, although sometimes there is a more qualitative (non-numerical) description of the property.
A chemical property is a characteristic of a pure substance that describes its ability to change into different substances. For example, a chemical property of methane is that it can catch fire and burn in air. Physical properties can be observed or measured without changing the composition of matter.
Each of these are chemical properties. Now you can better understand what a chemical property is. Chemical properties are characteristics of a material that become evident when the material undergoes a chemical reaction or chemical change.
Physical and Chemical Properties. The difference between a physical and chemical property is straightforward until the phase of the material is considered. When a material changes from a solid to a liquid to a vapor it seems like them become a difference substance.
Not all substances can make an explosion. There really isn't a set of chemical properties in the same way there is, more or less, a set of physical properties. That's because the chemical properties are tied to the change, whereas a given substance has a property (such as melting point) all to itself.
Another textbook I consulted defined chemical property this way: chemical properties describe the way a substance may change or react to form other substances. One example was given: flammability-the ability of a substance to burn in the presence of oxygen.
This ability to react to oxygen to form rust is called a chemical property. A chemical property is a characteristic that can only be determined by changing the chemical identity of a substance. What we started with was iron, but when it reacts with the oxygen in the air, it turns into iron oxide, or rust.
A chemical property is any characteristic that gives a substance the ability to undergo a change that results in a new substance. Example: Matches are permanently changed and black after they are burned. Therefore this property can be observed only by changing the composition of the match.