The plantar reflex is a reflex elicited when the sole of the foot is stimulated with a blunt instrument. The reflex can take one of two forms. In normal adults the plantar reflex causes a downward response of the hallux (flexion). An upward response (extension) of the hallux is known as the Koch sign, or as the Babinski response or Babinski sign, named after the neurologist Joseph Babinski. Occasionally, a pathological plantar reflex is the first and only indication of a serious disease process and a clearly abnormal plantar reflex often prompts detailed neurological investigations, including CT scanning of the brain or MRI of the spine, as well as lumbar puncture for the study of cerebrospinal fluid.
A plantar reflex is a normal reflex that involves plantar flexion of the foot, which moves toes away from the shin and curls them down. An abnormal plantar reflex (aka Babinski Sign) occurs when upper motor neuron control over the flexion reflex circuit is interrupted. Primitive reflexes are reflex actions originating in the central nervous system that are exhibited by normal infants, but not neurologically intact adults, in response to particular stimuli.
Plantar Response. Test the plantar response by scraping an object across the sole of the foot beginning from the heel, moving forward toward the small toe, and then arcing medially toward the big toe. The normal response is downward contraction of the toes. The abnormal response, called Babinski's sign, is characterized by an upgoing big toe and fanning outward of the other toes. In some patients the toes are silent, moving neither up nor down. If the toes are downgoing on one side and silent on the other, the silent side is considered abnormal. 
Response, plantar: The plantar response, also known as the Babinski response, is an important neurologic examination based upon what the toes do when the sole (the plantar surface) of the foot is stroked. If the big toe goes up, that may mean trouble. A plantar response in an older child or adult is abnormal. It is a sign of a problem in the central nervous system (CNS), most likely in a part of the CNS called the pyramidal tract. Asymmetry of the plantar response -- when it is present on one side but not the other --
The Babinski sign is known by a number of other names: the plantar response (because the sole is the plantar surface of the foot), the toe or big toe sign or phenomenon, and the Babinski reflex, response or phenomenon. 
2) Babinski Sign. When the foot and toes abnormally extend upward toward the head during a plantar reflex assessment, this is called Babinski sign or Babinski reflex. It can be benign. Sleeping adults and children under two tend to have Babinski sign with no underlying pathology. 
Babinski reflex. a reflex action of the toes, indicative of abnormalities in the motor control pathways leading from the cerebral cortex. It is elicited in dogs and cats by an upward stroking of the metacarpal or metatarsal bones. A normal reaction is slight flexion of the toes.
1 The abnormal plantar reflex, or Babinski reflex, is the elicitation of toe extension from the wrong receptive field, that is, the sole of the foot. 2  Thus a noxious stimulus to the sole of the foot produces extension of the great toe instead of the normal flexion response. 1 The plantar reflex is a nociceptive segmental spinal reflex that serves the purpose of protecting the sole of the foot. 2  The clinical significance lies in the fact that the abnormal response reliably indicates metabolic or structural abnormality in the corticospinal system upstream from the segmental reflex.
Abnormal plantar reflex: Abnormal plantar reflex refers to abnormalities in the toe flexion in response to stroking of the outer surface of the sole, from the heel end to the little toe. See detailed information below for a list of 2 causes of Abnormal plantar reflex, including diseases and drug side effect causes. Conditions listing medical symptoms: Abnormal plantar reflex: The following list of conditions have ' Abnormal plantar reflex ' or similar listed as a symptom in our database. This computer-generated list may be inaccurate or incomplete. Always seek prompt professional medical advice about the cause of any symptom.