The most common subspecies of tiger is the Bengal tiger. Male Bengal tigers, on average, are 270-310 cm head to tail, weighi … ng 488 pounds. Female Bengal tigers average 240-265 cm head to tail and weigh an average of 308 pounds. 
Bengal tigers have also inherited a few useful traits from their ancestors, the sabre toothed tiger. One of these traits is nocturnal vision that allows the Bengal tiger to hunt their prey relentlessly night or day. Actually, a Bengal tiger’s vision can function with up to one-sixth the light that a human eye needs. Deforestation of the Bengal tigers’ habitat is playing a major part in the Bengal tigers’ reduction. Where once they had thousands of acres to roam, they now have only a few scarce sanctuaries (refer to map on page 2) and even there they are not completely safe from poachers.
Bengal tigers are also able to consume other predators such as leopards, wolves, and crocodiles. In very rare cases these creatures are able to take down animals as big as elephants or rhinoceroses. Also, very rarely, these tigers attack and kill humans. Unlike other big animals Bengal Tigers do not hibernate. Since it is hot almost all year in India, they have no need to hibernate to avoid the cold winters. Bengal Tigers have a total gestation period of around 3.5 months (about 16 weeks) and tend to reproduce in the spring time.
This article on the Bengal tiger habitat looks at where it is and what it is. When you write about habitat you have to write about the location as well. It is an area where there are dense mangrove forests and where the land meets the sea. Bengal tigers in this region have adapted to the dense forest and the sea water. Tigers are good swimmers anyway. In the Sunderbans (a national park) the primary prey for the tiger is the chital (axis deer), wild boar, and monkeys.
Bengal tigers live in tropical rainforests in India, Bangladesh, Bhutan, China, Myanmar and Nepal. However, most of the population is found in grassland or deciduous forests. Bengal tigers like the constant shade that the forest floor guarantees with the understory’s leaves leaving the tigers cool. Deforestation of the Bengal tigers’ habitat is playing a major part in the Bengal tigers’ reduction. Where once they had thousands of acres to roam, they now have only a few scarce sanctuaries (refer to map on page 2) and even there they are not completely safe from poachers.
The original habitat of Royal Bengal Tigers (Indian Tigers or panthera tigris) is India Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, and Burma where these splendid animals live mostly in sanctuaries. 
Dry and wet deciduous forests, grassland and temperate forests, mangrove forests. The Bengal tiger is found primarily in India with smaller populations in Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, China and Myanmar. It is the most numerous of all tiger subspecies with more than 2,500 left in the wild
Ecological Niche. The Bengal Tiger, like most animals, is a heterotroph which means that they need to consume other organisms to obtain energy. These creatures are also endothermic which means they are warm blooded. By perfroming live birth and being covered head to tail in hair, Bengal Tigers are also classified as mammals. Unlike other big animals Bengal Tigers do not hibernate. Since it is hot almost all year in India, they have no need to hibernate to avoid the cold winters. Bengal Tigers have a total gestation period of around 3.5 months (about 16 weeks) and tend to reproduce in the spring time.
The only big predator to the Bengal Tiger is humans. We take their habitat, fur, bones, and meat until they can no longer supply for us and we move on. Humans are greedy when it comes to these animals and play a vital role in their extinction. Unlike other big animals Bengal Tigers do not hibernate. Since it is hot almost all year in India, they have no need to hibernate to avoid the cold winters. Bengal Tigers have a total gestation period of around 3.5 months (about 16 weeks) and tend to reproduce in the spring time.