Cloud Types. Clouds are classified into four basic categories, depending largely on the height of their bases above the ground. High-level clouds, called cirrus clouds, can reach heights of 20,000 feet (6,000 meters) and are typically thin. They do not produce rain and often indicate fair weather. They are usually made up of ice.
Clouds are given different names based on their shape and their height in the sky. Some clouds are near the ground. Others are almost as high as jet planes fly. Some are puffy like cotton. Others are grey and uniform. The diagram below shows where different types of clouds are located in the sky. Visit the Cloud Gallery to see photos of the different cloud types. 1  The highest clouds in the atmosphere are cirrocumulus, cirrus, and cirrostratus.
High-level clouds which form above 20,000 feet (6,000 meters) and are usually composed of ice crystals. High-level clouds are typically thin and white in appearance, but can create an array of colors when the sun is low on the horizon.
Though, no two clouds are the same, clouds can still be categorized into different classes. Based on certain features, clouds are divided into four main types: High level clouds, medium level clouds, low level clouds and vertical clouds. Let us take a quick look at the main 4 types of clouds.
There are a range of different types of clouds, the main types include stratus, cumulus and cirrus. Stratus clouds are flat and featureless, appearing as layered sheets. Cumulus clouds are puffy, like cotton floating in the sky. Cirrus clouds are thin and wispy, appearing high
There are many different types of clouds that can be seen. The types of clouds are determined based on what they look like and how high they are in the atmosphere. High-Level Clouds Mid-Level Clouds Low-Level Clouds Vertical Clouds High-level clouds are formed in altitudes above 20,000 feet.
1 The highest clouds in the atmosphere are cirrocumulus, cirrus, and cirrostratus. 2  Cumulonimbus clouds can also grow to be very high. 3  Mid-level clouds include altocumulus and altostratus. 4  The lowest clouds in the atmosphere are stratus, cumulus, and stratocumulus.