Driving under the influence (DUI) is a serious offense in all 50 states. Every state has laws that define DUI as operating a motor vehicle, such as a car, motorcycle, or boat, with a blood alcohol content (BAC) of 0.08 percent or higher. Normally, a person will receive a DUI misdemeanor if it is his or her first, second, or third offense within a certain time frame (typically five to ten years). However, a person may be charged with felony DUI if he or she had had three or more drunk-driving offenses or caused property damage and/or bodily harm.
A misdemeanor is considered a lesser offense than a felony. Under Virginia law, there are four classes or levels of misdemeanors. The less serious classes of misdemeanors are Class 3 and Class 4 misdemeanors. These classes of misdemeanors do not carry jail time, but rather they consist of solely a fine. Most of the time, a first offense DUI/DWI is charged as a misdemeanor. However, if there are other crimes connected to the DUI OR DWI—for example, if someone is injured or killed as a result of the DUI/DWI—then it can be charged as felony.
A DUI misdemeanor conviction is when any person driving under the influence causes property damage or personal injury to another. It is then considered a first-degree misdemeanor punishable by up to 1 year in prison and a $1000 fine. A DUI Felony conviction usually refers to repeat offenders. A person is charged with a felony if he or she is convicted of a third DUI within 10 years or a fourth DUI, period. It is a third-degree felony punishable by up to 5 years in prison and a $5,000 fine. It is also a third-degree felony if a person causes serious bodily injury while driving under the influence
Although driving under the influence (DUI) is illegal in any condition, the severity of the charge can vary greatly from one circumstance to another. State law, along with factors such as the driver’s prior record, will determine whether an offense is classified as a misdemeanor or a felony DUI. 
3) The driver has previously been convicted of a felony DUI. Once you are convicted of a felony DUI, all later DUI arrests are felonies, even if no one is injured. DUI Cases that do not fall into these 3 categories are considered misdemeanors; however, even a misdemeanor DUI can mean serious jail time. The first offense can mean anywhere from no jail up to a maximum of six months in jail, however there are some courts that do require jail time on a first time conviction. This video is about being able to distinguish between a felony DUI and a misdemeanor DUI. From a legal standpoint, a felony is the more serious crime and could be punishable by up to a year in jail, or even longer in state prison. A misdemeanor is a less serious crime that is punishable by no more than one year in jail.
Since Class A misdemeanors are usually the most serious type of misdemeanor offense, they often involve the maximum amount of penalties that can be prescribed for a misdemeanor. This typically includes: 1  Fines ranging anywhere from $500 to $5,000. 2  1 year in jail. 
Here’s what you need to know about a California DUI misdemeanor. The majority of DUIs are classified as misdemeanors—and although the charge is less serious than a felony offense, it is still a crime. As a result, a misdemeanor conviction carries a number of severe penalties. These sentencing guidelines, however, are rather lenient when compared to the penalties imposed in felony DUI cases. To determine whether your offense is considered a misdemeanor or felony, the court will review several factors, including your prior criminal history and the circumstances of your arrest.
DUI as Felony. There are circumstances when even a first-time DUI offense, or ones in which the charges would normally be a misdemeanor, will be considered a felony. These include incidents in which: 1  There was serious bodily injury or disfigurement. 2  There was a fatality. 3  The defendant had a BAC over a certain level. DUI, or driving while under the influence, is a misdemeanor in all 50 states if it is the defendant's first offense. Most states also consider a second—or even a third—DUI to be a misdemeanor, provided a certain amount of time, generally seven to 10 years, has passed between offenses.
Drunk driving. Driving under the influence. Driving while intoxicated. Whatever term is used to describe impaired driving, it’s a criminal offense. DUI/DWI offenses are classified as either misdemeanor or felony charges. Although both types are serious, a felony charge for DUI is much more grave than a misdemeanor DUI.