Organic herb plant. Munstead is one of the most fragrant lavender varieties, with a very rounded, bushy habit and lots of flowers. It is prized for edible flowers and its high oil content that is good for essential oils. Munstead is smaller than most lavender varieties, and blooms earlier than many. What many people don’t know about Lavender is that its leaves are a natural herbicide and will help repel insects like mosquitoes. Lavender can also be used as a culinary herb in flavored vinegar, jellies, as a flavoring in lavender ice cream, or as an ingredient in lavender short bread.
Specific epithet means having narrow leaves. ‘Munstead’ is a compact, early-flowering English lavender cultivar that was first introduced into commerce in 1916. It is a semi-woody perennial that typically grows to 12-18” tall and as wide. Lavender blue flowers appear in terminal spikes in late spring well into summer. English lavender varieties are more often used for culinary purposes than other types of lavender. This is a semi-woody plant that typically grows to 1.5-3’. Narrow, gray-green leaves (to 2 1/2” long) on square stems. Purple flowers appear in terminal spikes in late spring to early summer.
Best in warm, dry soil and full sun. An evergreen perennial, Lavender 'Munstead' is a classic English Lavender for U.S. gardens, renowned for its heavy midsummer bloom strength and its fine tolerance of heat, humidity, and even drought (once established). 
Uses: Lavender 'Munstead', like other Lavender varieties, is highly fragrant, yet this version is more compact and shrub-like and does well in small spaces. A very beneficial medicinal herb, for its antibacterial and anti fungal properties, 'Munstead' also promotes new skin growth. The best varieties for medicinal use are 'Munstead' and 'Hidcote', as they are non-hybridized varieties. Wonderful for herb sachets and pillows, potpourri and fresh or dried arrangements, 'Munstead' retains its beautiful color and scent after drying.
Munstead lavender is compact and early flowering. It has a strong scent and small leaves. The lavender-blue flowers form on loose spikes. This is the classic lavender used in sachets, perfumes, wands, etc. 
Lavandula angustifolia 'Munstead'. MUNSTEAD LAVENDER. One of the Lavandula angustifolias or English lavenders, Munstead Lavender is a fragrant robust lavender that, due to its short size (about 18 inches) and tightly held blooms (about 8 inches), makes a great hedge. It can also be used for knot gardens
Lavandula angustifoliaAn old favorite, Lavender 'Munstead' is a dependable performer with profusely blooming lavender-blue flowers. This aromatic herb is a wonderful ornamental in your garden and produces tons of fragrant flowers which are sure to attract bees, butterflies and hummingbirds. The best varieties for medicinal use are 'Munstead' and 'Hidcote', as they are non-hybridized varieties. Wonderful for herb sachets and pillows, potpourri and fresh or dried arrangements, 'Munstead' retains its beautiful color and scent after drying.
Lavender Spikes in Spring. The English Lavender 'Munstead' is one of the Lavandula angustifolias or English lavenders. This plant is a branched, woody, perennial lavender plant that grows much like a small evergreen shrub. The narrow leaves are about 2 inches long and have a pleasing gray-green color. A fragrant and a robust lavender, 'Munstead' makes a great hedge. English Lavender ‘Munstead’ blooms profusely in the spring, after which a good pruning will provide an attractive gray bush with highly aromatic leaves! ‘Munstead’ is able to tolerate heat better than most other
Lavandula angustifolia (lavender or English lavender, though not native to England; also common lavender, true lavender, narrow-leaved lavender), formerly L. officinalis, is a flowering plant in the family Lamiaceae, native to the western Mediterranean, primarily the Pyrenees and other mountains in northern Spain. 
English Lavender (l. angustifolia and munstead) has the sweetest fragrance of all the lavenders and is the one most commonly used in cooking. The uses of lavender are limited only by your imagination. Lavender has a sweet, floral flavor, with lemon and citrus notes. 