Physalis fruit. The Physalis fruit is closely related to the tomato varieties in appearance. It grows upto 3-6 ft in height and falls over the land and sprawls on the ground if not given any support. The flowers of this fruit are yellow in color with purple markings which is technically a berry, as the tomato fruit. Nutritional benefits of Physalis. Physalis fruit is a good source of vitamin C, beta-carotene, iron, calcium and trace amounts of B vitamins. These have been used as a diuretic in traditional medicine, although there is no scientific data to support this. 1  These fruits contain 18 kinds of amino acids.
Many Physalis species are called groundcherries. One name for Physalis peruviana is Inca berry; another is Cape gooseberry, not to be confused with the true gooseberries, which are of the genus Ribes in the family Grossulariaceae. Another name used to refer to the fruit is simply golden berries. Not all Physalis species bear edible fruit. Select species are cultivated for their edible fruit, however; the typical Physalis fruit is similar to a firm tomato in texture, and like strawberries or pineapple in flavor, with a mild acidity.
Physalis are herbaceous plants growing to 0.4 to 3 m tall, similar to the common tomato, a plant of the same family, but usually with a stiffer, more upright stem. They can be either annual or perennial. Not all Physalis species bear edible fruit. Select species are cultivated for their edible fruit, however; the typical Physalis fruit is similar to a firm tomato in texture, and like strawberries or pineapple in flavor, with a mild acidity.
Physalis peruviana is closely related to the tomatillo and to the Chinese lantern, also members of the genus Physalis. As a member of the plant family Solanaceae, it is more distantly related to a large number of edible plants, including tomato, eggplant, potato and other members of the nightshades. Despite its name, it is not closely related to any of the cherry, Ribes gooseberry, Indian gooseberry, or Chinese gooseberry. Not long after its introduction to South Africa, Physalis peruviana was introduced into Australia, New Zealand, and various Pacific islands. In South Africa, it is commercially cultivated; canned fruits and jam are common, often exported.
The Physalis fruit is closely related to the tomato varieties in appearance. It grows upto 3-6 ft in height and falls over the land and sprawls on the ground if not given any support. Nutritional benefits of Physalis. Physalis fruit is a good source of vitamin C, beta-carotene, iron, calcium and trace amounts of B vitamins. These have been used as a diuretic in traditional medicine, although there is no scientific data to support this. 1  These fruits contain 18 kinds of amino acids.
Physalis (/ˈfaɪsəlɪs/ , sometimes /faɪˈseɪlɪs/ , from physalis = bladder) is a genus of flowering plants in the nightshade family (Solanaceae), which grow in warm temperate and subtropical regions of the world. Most of the species, of which there may be 75-90, are indigenous to the New World. Not all Physalis species bear edible fruit. Select species are cultivated for their edible fruit, however; the typical Physalis fruit is similar to a firm tomato in texture, and like strawberries or pineapple in flavor, with a mild acidity.
Physalis. These fruits encased in an unusual, lantern-like husk are part of the nightshade family and thus share a relation with the much more familiar tomato. Since it has a mild, refreshing acidity similar to the tomato, it can be used in many of the same ways. 
The Physalis is a genus of plants that is part of the nightshade family. There are between 75 and 90 species. All except one are native to the Americas. The plants grow small orange fruit encased in a lantern-like husk that comes from the calyx. 
Learn more about this article. Physalia physalis is also known as the Portuguese man-of-war. It is a siphonophore, an animal that is made up of a colony of organisms working together, with individual polyps specialized for movement, catching prey, feeding and breeding. Physalia physalis also known as the Portuguese Man O' War is commonly mistaken for a jellyfish. The Portuguese man-of-war is a siphonophore, an animal that is made up of a colony of organisms working together.