Steps to reset the OPD safety valve: 1. Use soapy water (not a match) to check the hose and the connections within the grill for leaks 2. Turn the propane tank valve off 3. Open and shut a grill burner valve on the Barbeque grill 4. Make sure all the grill burners and the propane tank valve is off. 1. Use soapy water (not a match) to check the hose and the connections within the grill for leaks. 2. Turn the propane tank valve off. 3. Open and shut a grill burner valve on the Barbeque grill. 4. Make sure all the grill burners and the propane tank valve is off. 5. Disconnect the hose from the propane tank. 6. Reconnect the hose back to the propane tank. Those steps should reset the OPD Safety valve on the propane tank
Check out more How-To videos from BBQGuys.com here! http://www.bbqguys.com/content_name_H... Chef Tony shows you how to properly adjust the air shutter on your gas grill. No more ugly yellow flame, flame lifting, or open flame pockets. Adjust your air shutter for a better, more even grilling experience. Hope You Enjoy!
Yellow flame from my Genesis silver grill. I seem to have more of a yellow flame instead of a blue flame when I grill and it leaves a black soot on my burgers and dogs and what ever I'm cooking. The grill is about 6 or 7 years old. 
Leak in the Fuel Supply. Another common problem that impacts low or yellow flame output is a leak between the tank and the grill. To troubleshoot, apply soapy water to the propane tank valve, connector, hose, all the way up to where the hose connects to the burner assembly on your grill. 1. Use soapy water (not a match) to check the hose and the connections within the grill for leaks. 2. Turn the propane tank valve off. 3. Open and shut a grill burner valve on the Barbeque grill. 4. Make sure all the grill burners and the propane tank valve is off. 5. Disconnect the hose from the propane tank. 6. Reconnect the hose back to the propane tank. Those steps should reset the OPD Safety valve on the propane tank
1. Reset the regulator by turning off the burners on your gas grill. Turn off the propane tank and disconnect the hose from the tank. With your gas grill lid open, turn the burner knobs to high for about two minutes, and then turn them off again. Reconnect the hose to your propane tank and slowly turn on the gas. Follow your grill's lighting instructions
With the burners clean, put your grill back together and check the flame. If the you still have yellow flame the problem might be an alignment problem. What I mean is that the burners, control valve or manifold might not be lined up right to let the gas flow through properly. We're going to work through several problems to fix your grill starting with the simplest and least expensive first. Answer: The flame on a gas grill should be blue with yellow tips. If you have a large, uneven yellow flames then something is wrong with your grill.
To keep the regulator from sticking again make sure that you turn off the control valves first, then turn off the tank valve. Always open your tank valve slowly. If your gas grill still has yellow flame and the temperature is still low you will need to replace the regulator. Burner Adjustment: Yellow flame can be caused by a bad mixture of gas and air. This can be typically fixed by adjusting the burner air intact. We're going to work through several problems to fix your grill starting with the simplest and least expensive first. Answer: The flame on a gas grill should be blue with yellow tips. If you have a large, uneven yellow flames then something is wrong with your grill.
Open Stovetop. If you want to fix the problem of a yellow flame yourself, allow the stove to cool, remove the top grates and lift up the stovetop to expose the burner piping. On most stoves, the air shutter is just behind the burner gas valve. It is a sliding plate or tube that covers the burner air vent. Loosen the set screw that keeps the shutter from moving. Turn the burner on fully and slowly open the shutter until the flame turns blue.