• HOMOPHONE (noun). The noun HOMOPHONE has 1 sense: 1. two words are homophones if they are pronounced the same way but differ in meaning or spelling or both (e.g. bare and bear). Familiarity information: HOMOPHONE used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details. 1. two words are homophones if they are pronounced the same way but differ in meaning or spelling or both (e.g. bare and bear). Familiarity information: HOMOPHONE used as a noun is very rare
Homophone. A homophone is a word that is pronounced the same as another word but differs in meaning. The words may be spelled the same, such as rose and rose, or differently, such as carat, caret, and carrot, or to, two, and too. Homophones that are spelled the same are also both homographs and homonyms
Homophones that are spelled differently are also called heterographs. The term homophone may also apply to units longer or shorter than words, such as phrases, letters or groups of letters that are pronounced the same as another phrase, letter or group of letters. A word or unit with this property is said to be homophonous.
A homophone is a word that is pronounced the same as another word but differs in meaning, and may differ in spelling. The words may be spelled the same, such as rose (flower) and rose (past tense of rise), or differently, such as carat, caret, and carrot, or to, two, and too. The term homophone may also apply to units longer or shorter than words, such as phrases, letters or groups of letters that are pronounced the same as another phrase, letter or group of letters. A word or unit with this property is said to be homophonous.
Full Definition of HOMOPHONE. 1. : one of two or more words pronounced alike but different in meaning or derivation or spelling (as the words to, too, and two). 2. : a character or group of characters pronounced the same as another character or group. — ho·moph·o·nous \hō-ˈmae-ˈmä-fə\ nəs. adjective 
homophone-two words are homophones if they are pronounced the same way but differ in meaning or spelling or both (e.g. bare and bear). homonym-two words are homonyms if they are pronounced or spelled the same way but have different meanings. Translations. [ˈhɒməfəʊn] N → homofono homófono. m 1. (Linguistics) one of a group of words pronounced in the same way but differing in meaning or spelling or both, as for example bear and bare. 2. (Letters of the Alphabet (Foreign)) a written letter or combination of letters that represents the same speech sound as another: ``ph'' is a homophone of ``f'' in English.
Homophones are words that are pronounced the same but they have different meanings and are usually spelled differently as well. 