Barmah is near the largest river red gum forest in the world. The Barmah National Park is on the floodplain of the Murray River, and when it floods is an important breeding ground for Murray cod. The flood is enhanced by the geological features of the riverbed, as the channel narrows at an area known as the Barmah choke. At the 2011 census, Barmah had a population of 181. The border between the two states is the mostly westward-flowing Murray River. Just downstream of Barmah, the Murray winds south, then east far enough to put a small point of New South Wales directly south of Barmah before resuming its generally westwards course.
This red gum forest is located in Victoria upstream of the Barmah-Millewa Forest, north of Strathmerton. The western part of the island lies within Barmah National Park. There are toilets at Ulupna Beach. Some other sections of Ulupna Island are part of the Murray River Park. Gulpa Island lies between the Edward River and Gulpa Creek. Much of Gulpa Island is now part of the Murray Valley National Park. That part of Gulpa Island closest to Mathoura, however, is part of the discontinuous Murray Valley Reg
Barmah is a small Murray River town located 236 km north of Melbourne and about 30 km north-east of Echuca. It is best-known as the gateway to the superb Barmah State Forest which contains the largest redgum forest in the world. The western section is 9 km north of Barmah and is accessed by Moira Lakes Rd which is unsealed but manageable in a 2WD. Just after it crosses Broken Creek on Rices Bridge there is a side road on the left that leads to a day visitor area where the Murray River, Moira Creek and Barmah Lake meet.
Ring (03) 5866 2702 for a report on the state of the roads. Barmah Island Forest Drive. Barmah Island is the section of land to the north-west of Barmah which is sandwiched between the Murray River on the western side and Barmah Creek on the eastern side. The Forest Drive starts from the Barmah Town Gates at the end of Schier St and then heads off along River Rd which is 2WD-friendly but dusty when dry. The western section is 9 km north of Barmah and is accessed by Moira Lakes Rd which is unsealed but manageable in a 2WD. Just after it crosses Broken Creek on Rices Bridge there is a side road on the left that leads to a day visitor area where the Murray River, Moira Creek and Barmah Lake meet.
How to get there Barmah National Park lies along the Murray River between Barmah and Strathmerton, about 225km north of Melbourne. Major entry points are from Moira Lakes Road, Barmah-­‐Picola Road and the Murray Valley Highway. Kinship to land is a vital part of Yorta Yorta life. Areas such as Barmah National Park provide an important opportunity for kinship to land to continue. “The dreaming gave us our lore that binds us to the land through fundamental values passed on by our creation ancestors.
Take the Moira Lakes Road, next to the Barmah Hotel, for 9 km, to the edge of the forest and then follow Sandridge Track to the Dharnya Centre and cattle muster yards. Barmah National Park together with the adjoining Millewa Forest in New South Wales forms the largest River Red Gum forest in the world. The complex ecology of the forest is closely linked to the Murray River and its flooding regime, creating a diverse natural habitat for a variety of wildlife, particularly waterbirds. The township of Barmah sits on the banks of the Murray River, on a very picturesque river bend. Situated approximately 230km north of Melbourne, Barmah is best known as the gateway to the Barmah National Park. Barmah is the only town in Victoria which is north of the Murray River, and is a wonderful area for camping, canoeing, bushwalking, fishing or enjoying a Kingfisher river cruise
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Barmah National Park is a national park located in the Hume region of the Australian state of Victoria. The 28,500-hectare (70,000-acre) park is located adjacent to the Murray River near the town of Barmah, approximately 220 kilometres (140 mi) north of Melbourne. The park consists of River Red Gum (Eucalyptus camaldulensis) forest and wetlands.
Barmah Island is the section of land to the north-west of Barmah which is sandwiched between the Murray River on the western side and Barmah Creek on the eastern side. 
The forest is called Barmah Forest in Victoria (28,500ha; light grey on map below ~ parts of which is now a National Park) ~ and by various names, including Millewa Forest, Gulpa Island Forest and Moira Forest in NSW (38,100ha; darker grey on map below) ~ most of which is included in Murray Valley National Park.. Gulpa Island lies between the Edward River and Gulpa Creek. Much of Gulpa Island is now part of the Murray Valley National Park. That part of Gulpa Island closest to Mathoura, however, is part of the discontinuous Murray Valley Reg