To call Australia from the U.S., just follow these simple dialing directions: 1  First dial 011, the U.S. exit code. 2  Next dial 61, the country code for Australia. 3  Then dial the area code (1 digit). 4  Finally the phone number (8 digits). Whether you’re calling Sydney or Melbourne, Vonage World ® is a great way to call Australia. Vonage makes it easy to enjoy low-cost, reliable home phone service with unlimited¹ calling to Australia. That means you can call Australia from the U.S. without any confusion or hassle.
We hope that our Country Calling Codes quick reference international phonebook has helped you to find the Australia country code and make your international call. Don't forget to share our Australia phone book with your friends and bookmark it to help with all of your future international calls! The local time in Australia is (CLICK FOR TIME ZONES) Get the mobile country codes for Australia. Australia Information: Australia on Wikipedia The currency of Australia is the Australian Dollar.
How to call Australia from United States: 011 - United States exit code to dial first when calling international. 61 - Australian country code must be dialed next 011 + 61 + Local Number-Overall dialing code format. Follow @callingcodes. We hope Country Calling Codes has been of help to you in finding the Australian calling code for your international call from United States to Australia. Why not bookmark this page and tell a friend about this site for the next time they need to lookup an area code or international dialing code
1 011 - US exit code; dial first for international calls made from the USA or Canada. 2  Phone Number (may not begin with 0): 3  fixed - 9 digits including area code. 4  cell phones - 9 digits, 4 is the first digit nationwide. Calling Australia from the United States explained: 1  011 - US exit code; dial first for international calls made from the USA or Canada. 2  Phone Number (may not begin with 0): 3  fixed - 9 digits including area code.
CountryCode.org is your complete guide to make a call from anywhere in the world, to anywhere in the world. This page details Australia phone code. The Australia country code 61 will allow you to call Australia from another country. Australia telephone code 61 is dialed after the IDD. Australia international dialing 61 is followed by an area code. The Australia area code table below shows the various city codes for Australia. Australia country codes are followed by these area codes. With the complete Australia dialing code, you can make your international call. 
If you need to call a cellular phone in Australia, dial the number just as you would dial that of a land line. The only difference is that cell phone numbers use the prefix “4” in place of area codes. e.g. To call an Australian cell phone from the U.S., dial 011-61-4-xxxx-xxxx. Instructions for Calling to Cities within Australia. For international call to Australia, dial the international access code first (011 in the U.S.), followed by 61 (Australia’s country code). Then dial the area code and local subscriber number you are trying to reach. e.g. For a call to Sydney in New South Wales from the U.S., dial 011-61-2
The Australia country code is 61. Get the mobile country codes for Australia. Australia Information: Australia Emergency Numbers. Local Telephone Prefix: More ways to call Australia: Australia on Wikipedia The currency of Australia is the Australian Dollar. The nationality of Australia is Australians. The local time in Australia is (CLICK FOR TIME ZONES) Get the mobile country codes for Australia. Australia Information