[ 2 syll. (c)han-nel, ch-ann-el ] The baby girl name Channel is pronounced as CH AE NAHL †. Channel is used chiefly in English and it is derived from Old French origins. Channel is a spelling variant of the name Chanel (English and French). Channel is not popular as a baby name for girls. It is not listed within the top 1000 names
PRONOUNCED: shə-NEL [key]. Meaning & History. From a French surname which meant pipe. It has been used as an American given name since 1970s, influenced by the Chanel brand name (a line of women's clothing and perfume), which was named for French fashion designer Coco Chanel (1883-1971). Related Names. See All Relations. 
Chanel /cha-nel/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced sha-NELL. It is of Old French origin, and the meaning of Chanel is pipe. From a French occupational name and surname for pipe fitters and manufacturers. Contemporary usage may be due to the influence of the legendary fashion designer Gabrielle 'Coco' Chanel (1883-1971), and a number of famous perfumes. Below is a charted comparison of the popularity of Chanel and affiliated names. Ciara (#673 the previous year) , Shanelle, Shanell and Chanelle are the popular related forms of Chanel (#633 the previous year) listed in the Top 1000.
Chanel is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Cha-nel. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 633 in baby name popularity for girls with 448 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Chanel Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Chanel has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Chanel to other names. Variants of the name Chanel include Chanelle. The names Shanell, Shanella, Shanelle, Shanellia, Shannel, Shannell, Shannelle are all forms of Chanel
French Meaning: The name Chanel is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Chanel is: Canal; channel. The popular perfume Chanel. American Meaning: The name Chanel is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Chanel is: Canal; channel. The popular perfume Chanel
What does Chanel mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Chanel is of French origin. The meaning of Chanel is channel, pipe. It is also of English origin, where its meaning is modern invented name. View the Chanel Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Chanel has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Chanel to other names. Variants of the name Chanel include Chanelle. The names Shanell, Shanella, Shanelle, Shanellia, Shannel, Shannell, Shannelle are all forms of Chanel
Channel is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 7 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Cha-nnel. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 6454 in baby name popularity for girls with 19 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Channel Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Channel has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Channel to other names. English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland.
Affiliated girl name: Ciara. Chanel is a very prominent first name for females (#1432 out of 4276, Top 33%) and a slightly less prominent last name for both adults and children (#112967 out of 150436, Top 75%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Chanel for girls. Below is a charted comparison of the popularity of Chanel and affiliated names. Ciara (#673 the previous year) , Shanelle, Shanell and Chanelle are the popular related forms of Chanel (#633 the previous year) listed in the Top 1000.
The name Chanel is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Chanel is: Canal; channel. The popular perfume Chanel. American Meaning: The name Chanel is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Chanel is: Canal; channel.