From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The midbrain or mesencephalon (from the Greek mesos, middle, and enkephalos, brain) is a portion of the central nervous system associated with vision, hearing, motor control, sleep/wake, arousal (alertness), and temperature regulation. Caudally the midbrain adjoins the metencephalon (afterbrain) (pons and cerebellum) while rostrally it adjoins the diencephalon (thalamus, hypothalamus, etc.). The midbrain is located below the cerebral cortex, and above the hindbrain placing it near the center of the brain.
Introduction. Human brain midsagittal cut description. The midbrain or mesencephalon represents the connection between the brain stem and the higher centres of the brain and is involved in most body systems including sleep/consciousness, vision, hearing and temperature regulation. The midbrain is located between the diencephalon and the hind brain, or brain stem. Midbrain Development. The midbrain arises from the mesencephalon. One of the key roles of this area of the brain during development is the maintainance of a patent cerebral aqueduct to facilitate the appropriate development of higher brains structures including the cerebral hemispheres.
The Pons. The pons, which is also part of the brain stem, is inferior to the midbrain and superior to the medulla. Its posterior border is separated from the cerebellum by the aqueduct of Sylvius, and more inferiorly, by the fourth ventricle. Motor and sensory tracts traverse the anterior surface of the pons. The corpora quadrigemina, which is located on the posterior surface of the midbrain, is composed of two superior colliculi and two inferior colliculi. The superior colliculi are part of the visual system, relaying input from the optic tract to the lateral geniculate bodies of the thalamus.
Tectum | Tegmentum | See also. The midbrain, or mesencephalon is made up of two main structures and surrounds the cerebral aqueduct. The tectum is in the dorsal part of the midbrain. The superior colliculi are a part of the visual system and are involved in visual reflexes and reactions to moving stimuli. The inferior colliculi appear as four bumps on the dorsal surface of the brain stem and are a part of the auditory system
The hindbrain is made of the cerebellum, pons and medulla. Often the midbrain, pons, and medulla are referred to together as the brainstem. The Cerebrum: The cerebrum or cortex is the largest part of the human brain, associated with higher brain function such as thought and action. 
Tectum. The tectum is in the dorsal part of the midbrain. The superior colliculi are a part of the visual system and are involved in visual reflexes and reactions to moving stimuli. The inferior colliculi appear as four bumps on the dorsal surface of the brain stem and are a part of the auditory syste
The midbrain, also called the mesencephalon, is a region in the brainstem that is critical in producing orienting movements, species-specific behaviors, and the perception of pain. All this information is relayed to the brain to help our pre-frontal cortex make executive decisions. 
The midbrain is formed by three main structures: the cerebral peduncle (peduncle meaning 'foot' or 'base' of the cerebrum), the corpora quadrigemina (meaning 'quadruplet bodies' since it has four mound or hill-like structures), and the cerebral aqueduct, which is a canal dividing the two structures. In this lesson, we'll explore the midbrain, including where it's located, what structures compose it, and what its role is in the functions of your brain.