You should at least wonder after just a few days. A pregnancy test will be positive as soon as 5 days Before your period is due. [ Source: http://www.chacha.com/question/how-late-can-your-period-be-before-you-should-be-worried-about-being-pregnant ]. 
My questions is can you be pregnant with out even being late on your period yet? My period should come in a few days, but if it doesnt, am I? My boyfriend and I have been daring for 3 years now, and started having sex recently. The last time I believe the condom popped and we kept going. 
How many days after your missed period should you wait before deciding taking a pregnancy test? Q: I might just be a bit paranoid but my period is 3 days late and on the night of April 25th... 
A menstrual cycle is the time from the day a menstrual period starts to the time the next period starts. The average menstrual cycle is 28 days long. However, a normal cycle can be shorter or longer than this. It may be anywhere from 21 to 35 days long. Most periods last 3 to 5 days, but anywhere from 2 to 7 days is normal. Menstrual cycles may happen around the same date every month or they may be irregular. A menstrual period is considered late if it hasn’t started 5 or more days after the day you expected it to start
You should get your period once every month. Your menstrual cycle should be about 28 days. This means that there should be about 28 days from the first day of your period to the first day of your next period. 28 days is an average number, but anywhere between 21 and 35 days is normal. Your period will usually last between 3 and 7 days. The amount of blood flow you have will probably be different each day.
In my opinion, the answer to the questionhow many days late can you period be depends on your ovulation timings. Your period will be late if your ovulation starts late. Thus, unless you are tracking ovulation, there is no way to find out if your period is late or not. A pregnancy test is the first option to use to be certain of this because many factors can lead to late periods and every menstrual cycle is different. Generally speaking, if you usually have a regular menstrual cycle, a period up to 10 days late can be normal.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: your period can be as late as 35 days normally. if you wait out the 3 days and still nothing.. it's best to wait 2 weeks to be sure it's not irregular bleeding and that the test will be a positive one. a believable one. hmm..
2–3 days: If you have regular periods, a positive pregnancy test could be possible 2-3 days after a missed menses. Other common causes are delayed ovulation. 
Report Abuse. you can actually take a test 5 days before your missed period. a test should tell you now. and if you can wait take it right away in the morning when you get up, there more accurate that way. Kristina J · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 0