Zoonoses (/ˌzoʊ.əˈnoʊsɨs/ , plural - /ˈnoʊsiz/ , also spelled zooenoses; zoönoses singular (zoonosis or); zooenosis Zoönosis: from greek ζῷον zoon animal and νόσος) nosos ailment are infectious diseases (of animals), usually vertebrates that can naturally be transmitted. to humans In direct zoonosis the disease is directly transmitted from animals to humans through media such as air (influenza) or through bites and saliva (Rabies). In contrast, transmission can also occur via an intermediate species (referred to as a vector), which carry the disease pathogen without getting infected.
Dermacentor varia´bilis the chief vector of Rocky Mountain spotted fever in the central and eastern United States, the dog being the principal host of the adult forms, but also parasitic on cattle, horses, rabbits, and humans. Dermacentor albipictus. a one-host tick that transmits anaplasmosis and possibly Rocky Mountain spotted fever. Parasitizes moose mostly but also other wild ruminants and pastured livestock. Called also moose tick, winter tick.
Of these, four species account for nearly 90 percent of all submissions to Penn State for identification. The four ticks are: 1) the American dog tick, Dermacentor variablis; 2) the blacklegged tick, Ixodes scapularis; 3) the lone star tick, Amblyomma americanum; and 4) a ground hog tick, Ixodes cookei. American dog tick Dermacentor variabilis. Image of American dog tick female. Ticks, of which there are more than 500 species world-wide, are parasitic arthropods closely related to mites. Most ticks feed on the blood of warm-blooded mammals but some species also feed on birds, reptiles and even amphibians. Fish are apparently the only vertebrates not plagued by these little blood-suckers.
Dermacentor nigrolineatus. a one-host tick occurring mostly on white-tailed deer, but also on pastured livestock. Called also brown winter tick. Dermacentor nitens. a one-host tick that parasitizes horses mostly and is the vector of equine piroplasmosis; predisposes animals to screw-worm attack. Dermacentor albipictus. a one-host tick that transmits anaplasmosis and possibly Rocky Mountain spotted fever. Parasitizes moose mostly but also other wild ruminants and pastured livestock. Called also moose tick, winter tick.
Medical Definition of DERMACENTOR. : a large widely distributed genus of ornate ticks of the family Ixodidae including a number that attack humans and other mammals and several that are vectors of important diseases (as Rocky Mountain spotted fever).
Dermacentor andersoni. a species of tick common in the western USA, parasitic on numerous wild mammals, most domestic animals, and humans. It is a vector of Rocky Mountain spotted fever, tularemia, Colorado tick fever, and Q fever in the USA, and is one of the causes of tick paralysis in USA. Dermacentor albipictus. a one-host tick that transmits anaplasmosis and possibly Rocky Mountain spotted fever. Parasitizes moose mostly but also other wild ruminants and pastured livestock. Called also moose tick, winter tick.
Dermacentor anderso´ni a species of tick common in the western United States, parasitic on numerous wild mammals, most domestic animals, and humans. It is a vector of Rocky Mountain spotted fever, tularemia, Colorado tick fever, and Q fever in the United States, and is the cause of tick paralysis. Dermacentor albipictus. a one-host tick that transmits anaplasmosis and possibly Rocky Mountain spotted fever. Parasitizes moose mostly but also other wild ruminants and pastured livestock. Called also moose tick, winter tick.
D iseases: American dog ticks are the major carrier of Rocky Mountain spotted fever, which is less common than Lyme disease, but a potentially more serious illness. This tick has also been known to transmit tularemia, and to cause tick paralysis. It cannot transmit the spirochetes responsible for Lyme disease. Ticks, of which there are more than 500 species world-wide, are parasitic arthropods closely related to mites. Most ticks feed on the blood of warm-blooded mammals but some species also feed on birds, reptiles and even amphibians. Fish are apparently the only vertebrates not plagued by these little blood-suckers.
Introduction (Back to Top). Dermacentor variabilis (Say), also known as the American dog tick or wood tick, is found predominantly in the United States, east of the Rocky Mountains, and as its name suggests, is most commonly found on dogs as an adult. Figure 6. Dorsal view of the head region from the American dog tick, Dermacentor variabilis (Say). For an even closer look at the mouthparts at the left of the image, seen slightly lower than a line drawn through the center of the image, click here.