Definition. Non-working director of a firm who is not an executive director and, therefore, does not participate in the day-to-day management of the firm. He or she is usually involved in planning and policy making, and is sometimes included to lend prestige to the firm due to his or her standing in the community. BusinessDictionary.com. Non-working director of a firm who is not an executive director and, therefore, does not participate in the day-to-day management of the firm.
The executive director is responsible for the day-to-day management of the organization, working with the Board of Directors, and operating within a budget. Next Up. DEFINITION of 'Executive Director'. The senior operating officer or manager of an organization or corporation. Executive director titles (EDs) are frequently reserved for the heads of non-profit organizations, and their duties are similar to a chief executive officer's (CEO) duties of a for-profit company
DEFINITION of 'Non-Executive Director'. A member of a company's board of directors who is not part of the executive team. A non-executive director (NED) typically does not engage in the day-to-day management of the organization, but is involved in policy making and planning exercises. In addition, non-executive directors' responsibilities include the monitoring of the executive directors, and to act in the interest of any stakeholders. Also called external director, independent director and outside director.
Definition. A working director of an organization who is usually also its full-time employee, and has a specified decision making role as director of finance, marketing, operations, etc., on an on-going basis.T his title is more typically used for nonprofit organizations than for commercial enterprises. The meeting was held yesterday and in attendance was the executive director whose time was quite valuable to the organization.
Noun. 1. executive director-a person responsible for the administration of a business. executive. administrator, decision maker-someone who administers a business. business executive, corporate executive-an executive in a business corporation. 1. (Commerce) a member of the board of directors of a company who is also an employee (usually full-time) of that company and who often has a specified area of responsibility, such as finance or production.
An executive director is a chief executive officer (CEO) or managing director of an organization, company, or corporation. The title is widely used in North American non-profit organizations, though many United States nonprofits have adopted the title president or CEO. Confusion can arise because the words executive and director occur both in this title and in titles of various members of some organizations' boards of directors. The precise meanings of these terms are discussed in the board of directors article.
The executive director is a leadership role for an organization and often fulfills a motivational role in addition to office-based work. Executive directors motivate and mentor members, volunteers, and staff, and may chair meetings. The executive director leads the organization and develops its organizational culture. Confusion can arise because the words executive and director occur both in this title and in titles of various members of some organizations' boards of directors. The precise meanings of these terms are discussed in the board of directors article.
This is the latest accepted revision, reviewed on 21 October 2015. A non-executive director (abbreviated to non-exec, NED or NXD) or outside director is a member of the board of directors of a company or organisation who does not form part of the executive management team. 