1 If you want to swap a regular boiler with a combi boiler unfortunately there will be a lot of pipework changes needed (although you will be doing away with your hot water tank!), so the price to buy and fit this type of boiler starts at about £1800. In addition it depends on what type of boiler you had originally and what type of boiler you are swapping to. On the whole there are two types of boiler – a regular boiler (with the hot water tank) and a combi boiler that makes hot water on demand (without a hot water tank).
The cost for replacing a standard gas boiler is about $4,000. A high-efficiency model costs about $7,500. This cost estimate usually includes removal and disposal of the old unit, as well as all necessary lines, ducts and wiring needed for the new system to run properly. Boiler Costs by Type. If you have a boiler installed or replaced, you might pay anywhere between $3,111 and $7,204. On average, homeowners tend to pay $5,100. These prices are highly dependent on the type of boiler you choose.
Welcome to our boiler price calculator, this tool will help you get an idea of how much it will cost to install a combi or conventional boiler in your home. 
The cost of installing a boiler. Find out how to get a new boiler installed and how much it should cost. Once you know, make sure you install a Best Buy boiler by using our boiler reviews. Replacing an existing gas condensing combi boiler in the same position as the previous one. This job involves removing and disposing of the old boiler before installing the new one. Expect to pay Around £540 - £660. If your heating system is very old, it may need a mechanical flush-which costs around £510.
1 If you are keeping the same type of boiler (e.g. if you have a existing combi boiler you are replacing it with a new combi), the price to buy and install it will start at about £1300 provided there are no real plumbing adjustments required. In addition it depends on what type of boiler you had originally and what type of boiler you are swapping to. On the whole there are two types of boiler – a regular boiler (with the hot water tank) and a combi boiler that makes hot water on demand (without a hot water tank).
1 Replacing an old oil-fired boiler with a gas model can cost thousands of dollars more than replacing one oil-fired unit with another, because of the need to install new gas lines and to update the existing fittings, valves, piping system and other parts to work with the new boiler. Just received a quote of $5,700 (boiler, parts and labor) to install a Lennox new boiler with a tankless water heater coil. I called a local company to check the specs on the boiler and found out it is a $2,000 boiler. $3K-plus for removal and installation seems a bit excessive for a 7 hour job!
Depending on where you live they cost between $50 and $300. Some local governments also require a fire inspection before heating system replacements. The fees for these are dependent on the size of the boiler and tend to run between $40 and $75. Boiler Costs by Type. If you have a boiler installed or replaced, you might pay anywhere between $3,111 and $7,204. On average, homeowners tend to pay $5,100. These prices are highly dependent on the type of boiler you choose.
The cost of a new combi-boiler will vary depending upon how large your system needs to be and where you purchase it from. For instance: 1  A Vaillant combi boiler purchased straight from the producer prices between GBP725 and GBP910. 
How much should it cost to fit a new combi boiler/take out old one. I have just been quoted by British gas (£3,900) A bit overpriced I think. Just wanted an opinion on rough prices really, thanks. Best Answer: Combi for combi, (condensing), half day flushing (minimum), half day fitting, use Worcester Bosch (but not the i junior, it has no temp control on hot water), or vaillant, check the website where i work for some good info. Should cost £1800 - £2200 for the right boiler and a right job