Powder coated bicycle frames and parts. Powder coating is a type of coating that is applied as a free-flowing, dry powder. The main difference between a conventional liquid paint and a powder coating is that the powder coating does not require a solvent to keep the binder and filler parts in a liquid suspension form. The powder may be a thermoplastic or a thermoset polymer. It is usually used to create a hard finish that is tougher than conventional paint. Powder coating is mainly used for coating of metals, such as household appliances, aluminium extrusions, drum hardware, and automobile and bicycle parts.
What Is Powder Coating? Powder coating is the process of applying a dry powdered paint compound made of pigments, specialized resins and fillers that melt and fuse together during the curing process to form a painted finish. The solid powder particles are electrostaticaly charged when exiting the low-velocity air powered spray gun.
Powder coating can also be removed by a burning off process, in which parts are put into a large high-temperature oven with temperatures typically reaching an air temp of 300 to 450 degrees centigrade. The process takes about four hours and requires the parts to be cleaned completely and re-powder coated. The powder may be a thermoplastic or a thermoset polymer. It is usually used to create a hard finish that is tougher than conventional paint. Powder coating is mainly used for coating of metals, such as household appliances, aluminium extrusions, drum hardware, and automobile and bicycle parts.
And it lasts a long, long time. Powder coating is a superior finish that’s found on hundreds of products you come in contact with each day. It makes products durable, attractive, and scratch-resistant, too. Powder coating is a completely dry finishing process used on a wide range of materials and products. Finely ground particles of pigment and resin are electrostatically charged and sprayed onto products to be coated. 
Powder Coating Process PhosphatingDrying Overview of Powder Coating The powder coating process is very similar to a painting process except that the “paint” is a dry powder rather than a liquid. The powder sticks to the parts due to electrostatic charging of the powder and grounding of the parts. 
Powder coating is a process of coating metal with a plastic finish applied in powder form and baked to a fluid state to bond it to the metal surface. Powder coating has many advantages over traditional liquid coating: It's better for the environment, applies thicker without running, and is easy to style with. Apply the powder to the object to be powder coated. This is done using a gun or compressed air sprayer which electrostatically charges the powder material so that it sticks to the grounded base metal object receiving the coating. These guns are available from various suppliers, and cost as little as $100.
Powder coating is a safe, dry finishing process used to create a protective finish that is used on metals and aluminum products, automobile and motorcycle parts. This process is used to create a hard finish that is tougher than conventional paint. The powder coating process is a safe and economical process to protect from rust and chemical resistance. It is a durable, rust-free, chip resistant, and long lasting finish.
Powder coating is duarable, looks great and lasts for several years. Powder coating is a superior finish that is found on hundreds of products you come in contact with every day. Powder coating is attractive and scratch resistant. The result is an attractive, durable, high-quality finish. The powder coating process itself offers another advantage -- it Is environmentally friendly and virtually pollution free! Unlike liquid paint, no solvent is used resulting in negligible amounts of VOCs being released into the air.
Powder coating is becoming one of the most wanted surface finishing techniques now a days. The definition of powder coating is the process of applying dry paint to a part. In comparison to normal wet painting such as house paints, the solids are in suspension in a liquid carrier, which must evaporate before the solid paint coating is produced. 