For the endothelium of the cornea, see corneal endothelium. Endothelium is a type of epithelium that lines the interior surface of blood vessels and lymphatic vessels, forming an interface between circulating blood or lymph in the lumen and the rest of the vessel wall. It is a thin layer of simple squamous cells called endothelial cells. Endothelial cells in direct contact with blood are called vascular endothelial cells, whereas those in direct contact with lymph are known as lymphatic endothelial cells. These functions include fluid filtration, such as in the glomeruli of the kidney, blood vessel tone, hemostasis, neutrophil recruitment, and hormone trafficking. Endothelium of the interior surfaces of the heart chambers is called endocardium.
Introduction to Endothelial Cells. Endothelial cells (Fig.1) line the inside of every blood vessel in the body. They form a one-cell-thick layer called the endothelium, which is also found on the inner walls of the heart chambers and lymphatic vessels (which carry excess blood plasma around the body). The endothelium is very extensive. In the larger vessels such as the veins and arteries, the endothelium forms the blood vessel wall along with much thicker layers of muscle cells and elastic fibers (Fig. 2). In the capillaries, however, the endothelium makes up the entirety of the blood vessel wall (Fig.
Ingredients line up to support function of endothelial layer. By Hank Schultz Hank Schultz, 27-Mar-2013. The health of the endothelium, that thin layer of cells lining the blood vessels, is the front line for cardiovascular health. And a variety of food and supplement ingredients are showing promise in supporting the function of this vital tissue. http://www.foodnavigator-usa ....
The role of the endothelium as a barrier is particularly critical around the brain. The endothelial cells are part of blood-brain barrier (BBB), a layer that separates the blood flowing through vessels surrounding the brain from the brain tissue itself (i.e. neurons and cerebrospinal fluid), see Fig.4. In the larger vessels such as the veins and arteries, the endothelium forms the blood vessel wall along with much thicker layers of muscle cells and elastic fibers (Fig. 2). In the capillaries, however, the endothelium makes up the entirety of the blood vessel wall (Fig.
Email. Print. The endothelium is a thin membrane that lines the inside of the heart and blood vessels. Endothelial cells release substances that control vascular relaxation and contraction as well as enzymes that control blood clotting, immune function and platelet (a colorless substance in the blood) adhesion.
Introduction. The pulmonary endothelium made up of a continuous sheet of endothelial cells is a large organ: its surface area is approximately 90 m 2 (the size of a tennis court) and it lines all the blood vessels in the lung. The flattened endothelial cell lines the vessel giving a thin blood gas barrier. bm, basement membrane; ctm, connective tissue matrix; j, tight cell junction; m, mitochondrion; I, epithelial type I pneumonocyte; rbc, red blood cell.
The endocardium is the innermost layer of tissue that lines the chambers of the heart. Its cells are embryologically and biologically similar to the endothelial cells that line blood vessels. The endocardium also provides protection to the valves and heart chambers. 
endothelium. the layer of epithelial cells that lines the cavities of the heart and of the blood and lymph vessels, and the serous cavities of the body. [en′dōthē′lē·əm]. Etymology: Gk, endon + thele, nipple. the layer of simple squamous epithelial cells that lines the heart, the blood and lymph vessels, and the serous cavities of the body. It is highly vascular, heals quickly, and is derived from the mesoderm.
Best Answer: The innermost lining is the intima which is made of endothelial cells and some collagen to hold it together. Muscle is in the middle layer and more collagen on the outer layer. Together the 3 layers comprise the blood vessel itself...so I assume by line you mean the intima. 