Yen is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 3 letters and 1 syllable and is pronounced Yen. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 16317 in baby name popularity for girls with 6 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Yen Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Yen has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Yen to other names. Variants of the name Yen include Yena.
The Japanese yen (円 or 圓, en, symbol: ¥; code: JPY) is the official currency of Japan. It is the third most traded currency in the foreign exchange market after the United States dollar and the euro. The spelling and pronunciation yen is standard in English. This is because mainly English speakers who visited Japan at the end of the Edo period to the early Meiji period spelled words this way. ゑん/wen/ in historical kana orthography.
[ 1 syll. yen, ye-n ] The baby boy name Yen is also used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is YehN †. Yen's origin, as well as its use, is in the Vietnamese language. The name's meaning is calm, serene, a swallow. Yen is unusual as a baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names.
Yen is pronounced en [eɴ] in Japanese. The word (Shinjitai: 円, Kyūjitai: 圓) literally means round in Japanese, as yuan yuán does In chinese or won In. korean The spelling and pronunciation yen is standard in English. This is because mainly English speakers who visited Japan at the end of the Edo period to the early Meiji period spelled words this way. ゑん/wen/ in historical kana orthography.
The Japanese then decided to adopt a silver dollar coinage under the name of 'yen', meaning 'a round object'. The yen was officially adopted by the Meiji government in an Act signed on May 10, 1871. The new currency was gradually introduced beginning from July of that year. The spelling and pronunciation yen is standard in English. This is because mainly English speakers who visited Japan at the end of the Edo period to the early Meiji period spelled words this way. ゑん/wen/ in historical kana orthography.
[ 1 syll. yen, ye-n ] The baby girl name Yen is also used as a boy name. It is pronounced as YehN †. Yen has its origins in the Vietnamese language. It is used largely in Chinese and Vietnamese. The name Yen means 'peace'. Forms of Yen include the names Yeni, Yenie, Yenn, Yenny, Yeny, and Yeun. Yen is not popular as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names.
BREAKING DOWN 'USD/JPY (U.S. Dollar/Japanese Yen) '. The value of the USD/JPY pair is quoted as 1 U.S. dollar per x Japanese yen. For example, if the pair is trading at 1.50 it means that it takes 1.5 yen to buy 1 U.S. dollar. The USD/JPY is affected by factors that influence the value of the U.S. dollar and the Japanese yen, both in relation to each other, and to other currencies. AAA |. The abbreviation for the U.S. dollar and Japanese yen (USD/JPY) pair or cross for the currencies of the United States (USD) and Japan (JPY).
The noun YEN has 2 senses: 1. a yearning for something or to do something. 2. the basic unit of money in Japan; equal to 100 sen. Familiarity information: YEN used as a noun is rare. 
Yen in Nautical Flags. Last year this name was ranked as one of the top 1000 most popular names within its gender. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own. As you see it can go both ways, so just keep this point in mind as you examine the different possibilities. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Yen Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Yen has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Yen to other names. Variants of the name Yen include Yena.