Less commonly, pharyngitis is caused by a bacterial infection. Bacterial infections do require antibiotics. The most common bacterial infection of the throat is strep throat, which is caused by streptococcus A. Rare causes of bacterial pharyngitis include gonorrhea, chlamydia, and corynebacterium. Viral Infection. Pharyngitis is most commonly caused by viral infections such as the common cold, influenza, or mononucleosis. Viral infections do not respond to antibiotics, and treatment is only necessary to help relieve symptoms.
A bacterial infection may also cause a sore throat. This can occur from: 1  Strep throat, which usually does not occur with congestion or a cough. 2  An inflammation or infection of the tonsils (tonsillitis) and sometimes the adenoids (adenoiditis). 3  An infection of the tissues around the tonsils (peritonsillar abscess). Fortunately, most sore throats are caused by a minor illness and go away without medical treatment. Several conditions can cause a sore throat. Sore throats may be caused by a viral illness, such as: 1  The common cold, the most common type of viral infection. 2  Infection of the voice box (laryngitis). 3  Mononucleosis (mono, the kissing disease), a viral infection that tends to cause a persistent sore throat
These symptoms could be signs of a bacterial infection, such as strep throat. Taking antibiotics won’t help at all if your sore throat is caused by viruses, but they’re essential for fighting bacterial infections like strep. Strep is the most common bacterial throat infection. Although it can occur in adults, strep throat is more common in children between ages 5 and 15. Riddle says strep can be harder to detect in younger children, because it can cause a runny nose and other symptoms that make it seem like a cold. Another fairly common throat infection is tonsillitis, which occurs when you have sore, swollen tonsils. It’s caused by many of the same viruses and bacteria that cause sore throats. If you have frequent bouts of tonsillitis or strep throat, you may need surgery (called a tonsillectomy) to have your tonsils removed.
In this article. Bacterial and viral infections have many things in common. Both types of infections are caused by microbes -- bacteria and viruses, respectively -- and spread by things such as: 1  Coughing and sneezing. 2  Contact with infected people, especially through kissing and sex. 3  Contact with contaminated surfaces, food, and water. 
Streptococcal pharyngitis or strep throat is caused by group A beta-hemolytic streptococcus (GAS). It is the most common bacterial cause of cases of pharyngitis (15–30%). Common symptoms include fever, sore throat, and large lymph nodes. It is a contagious infection, spread by close contact with an infected individual. A definitive diagnosis is made based on the results of a throat culture. 
Many of these infections are viral; others can be caused by bacteria (such as Streptococcus pyogenes, or group A Streptococcus). Streptococcal bacteria are the agents that cause the painful and well-known condition known as strep throat. A throat infection, sometimes called pharyngitis, can be either a bacterial or a viral infection leading to inflammation of the tissues of the throat that causes redness, pain and swelling of the walls or structures of the throat.
1 The common cold, the most common type of viral infection. 2  Infection of the voice box (laryngitis). 3  Mononucleosis (mono, the kissing disease), a viral infection that tends to cause a persistent sore throat. 4  Other viral infections, such as mumps, herpangina, or influenza. Fortunately, most sore throats are caused by a minor illness and go away without medical treatment. Several conditions can cause a sore throat. Sore throats may be caused by a viral illness, such as: 1  The common cold, the most common type of viral infection. 2  Infection of the voice box (laryngitis). 3  Mononucleosis (mono, the kissing disease), a viral infection that tends to cause a persistent sore throat
The germs that cause bacterial meningitis can be contagious. Some bacteria can spread through the exchange (e.g., by kissing) of respiratory and throat secretions (e.g., saliva or mucus). Fortunately, most of the bacteria that cause meningitis are not as contagious as viruses that cause the common cold or the flu.