Food-borne zoonotic diseases are caused by consuming food or drinking water contaminated by pathogenic (disease-causing) micro-organisms such as bacteria and their toxins, viruses and parasites. They enter the body through the gastrointestinal tract where the first symptoms often occur. Zoonoses are infections or diseases that can be transmitted directly or indirectly between animals and humans, for instance by consuming contaminated foodstuffs or through contact with infected animals. The severity of these diseases in humans varies from mild symptoms to life-threatening conditions.
Food poisoning is a common, yet distressing and sometimes life-threatening problem for millions of people in the U.S. and throughout the world. People infected with food-borne organisms may be symptom-free or may have symptoms ranging from mild intestinal discomfort to severe dehydration and bloody diarrhea. Depending on the type of infection, people can even die as a result of food poisoning. More than 250 different diseases can cause food poisoning. Some of the most common diseases are infections caused by bacteria, such as Campylobacter, Salmonella, Shigella, E. coli O157:H7, Listeria, botulism, and norovirus. 
Foodborne illness (also foodborne disease and colloquially referred to as food poisoning) is any illness resulting from the food spoilage of contaminated food, pathogenic bacteria, viruses, or parasites that contaminate food, as well as chemical or natural toxins such as poisonous mushrooms. Foodborne disease can also be caused by a large variety of toxins that affect the environment. Foodborne illness can also be caused by pesticides or medicines in food and naturally toxic substances such as poisonous mushrooms or reef fish.
The most common foodborne infections are caused by three bacteria -- Campylobacter, Salmonella, and E. coli O157:H7 -- and by a group of viruses called calicivirus, better known as Norwalk-like virus: Foodborne disease: A disease caused by consuming contaminated food or drink. Myriad microbes and toxic substances can contaminate foods. There are more then 250 known foodborne diseases. The majority are infectious and are caused by bacteria, viruses, and parasites. Other foodborne diseases are essentially poisonings caused by toxins, chemicals contaminating the food. All foodborne microbes and toxins enter the body through the gastrointestinal tract and often causes the first symptoms there.
Infections caused by bacteria, parasites or viruses in food or drinking water include: 1  Campylobacter infection. 2  Cholera. 3  Cyclosporiasis. 4  Escherichia coli (E.coli) infection. 5  Giardiasis. 6  Hepatitis A. 7  Hepatitis B. 8  Listeriosis. 9  Norovirus. 10  Q fever. 11  Salmonellosis. 12  Shigellosis. 13  Typhoid. 14  Vibrio infections. 
Salmonella and Campylobacter account for over 90% of all reported cases of bacteria-related food poisoning world-wide. Poultry and poultry products have been incriminated in the majority of traceable food-borne illnesses caused by these bacteria, although all domestic livestock are reservoirs of infection. This is the first report of food poisoning linked to Salmonella (45). Salmonella Enteritidis was sporadically isolated from poultry and eggs in the 1930s, and contaminated eggs were found to be a result of infection of the avian oviduct, and in some cases, penetration of the shell (38).
The severity of these diseases in humans varies from mild symptoms to life-threatening conditions. Food-borne zoonotic diseases are caused by consuming food or drinking water contaminated by pathogenic (disease-causing) micro-organisms such as bacteria and their toxins, viruses and parasites. They enter the body through the gastrointestinal tract where the first symptoms often occur. 1 Animal feed can be contaminated with bacteria such as Salmonella which can cause infection in animals and potentially lead to human infection from derived food products. 2  Parasites may infect food producing animals. 3  Milk can be contaminated by coming into contact with for example faeces or environmental dust.
1 Animal feed can be contaminated with bacteria such as Salmonella which can cause infection in animals and potentially lead to human infection from derived food products. 2  Parasites may infect food producing animals. 3  Milk can be contaminated by coming into contact with for example faeces or environmental dust. Zoonoses are infections or diseases that can be transmitted directly or indirectly between animals and humans, for instance by consuming contaminated foodstuffs or through contact with infected animals. The severity of these diseases in humans varies from mild symptoms to life-threatening conditions.