Finance is a field that deals with the study of investments. Which includes the dynamics of assets and liabilities over time under conditions of different degrees of uncertainty. Finance can also be defined as the science of money management. A key point in finance is the time value of money, which states that purchasing power of one unit of currency can vary over time. Finance aims to price assets based on their risk level and their expected rate of return. A key point in finance is the time value of money, which states that purchasing power of one unit of currency can vary over time
Before a specialty in personal finance was developed, various disciplines which are closely related to it such as family economics, and consumer economics were taught in various colleges as part of home economics for over 100 years. The earliest known research in personal finance was done in 1920 by Hazel Kyrk. Therefore, personal finance education is needed to help an individual or a family make rational financial decisions throughout their life. Before 1990, mainstream economists and business faculty paid little attention to personal finance.
Financial Dictionary. One of the main sources of financial dictionary is the financial glossary by Campbell R. Harvey, renowned finance expert and J. Paul Sticht, professor of International Business at Duke University. It provides concise definitions of 8,000 terms with 18,000 useful links. 
The act of providing funds for business activities, making purchases or investing. Financial institutions and banks are in the business of financing as they provide capital to businesses, consumers and investors to help them achieve their goals. Next Up. 
Welcome to Finance Wikia! A wiki is a website that's created by the people who use it. Finance Wikia is a place where people with questions and people with answers can work together to build a database of helpful information. If you can type and click, you can edit most pages on this wiki. 1  Find a page to improve. 2  Click the Edit tab or any edit link. 3  An edit box will open-type your new sentences or corrections (just like a word processing or email program).
Tweet. : the way in which money is used and handled; especially: the way in which large amounts of money are used and handled by governments and companies. finances: money available to a government, business, or person. : matters relating to money and how it is spent or saved. Full Definition of FINANCE. 1. plural: money or other liquid resources of a government, business, group, or individual. 2. : the system that includes the circulation of money, the granting of credit, the making of investments, and the provision of banking facilities. 3. : the science or study of the management of funds.
Definition. The part of an organization that manages its money. The business functions of a finance department typically include planning, organizing, auditing, accounting for and controlling its company's finances. The finance department also usually produces the company's financial statements
(October 2010). Personal finance is the financial management which an individual or a family unit performs to budget, save, and spend monetary resources over time, taking into account various financial risks and future life events. Therefore, personal finance education is needed to help an individual or a family make rational financial decisions throughout their life. Before 1990, mainstream economists and business faculty paid little attention to personal finance.