Expansion. Most European languages belong to the Indo-European language family. The proto-language of this family (known as Proto-Indo-European or simply Indo-European) emerged in far eastern Europe, from where it spread westward across Europe and eastward into Asia. This great Indo-European expansion occurred primarily during the period ca. 2000-1000 BC. 1. Branches. The Indo-European language family has four main living branches: Indo-Iranian, Balto-Slavic, Germanic, and Italic. In the family tree provided below, the languages in the bottom boxes are the largest member language(s) of their respective branches.
By Irene Thompson | Updated February 24, 2015 by Irene Thompson. Indo-European is a family of languages that first spread throughout Europe and many parts of South Asia, and later to every corner of the globe as a result of colonization. It would not have been possible to establish the existence of the Indo-European language family if scholars had not compared the systematically recurring resemblances among European languages and Sanskrit, the oldest language of the Indian subcontinent that left many written documents.
The Indo-European language family descended from Proto-Indo-European, believed to have been spoken thousands of years ago. Indo-European languages are spoken throughout Europe, but particularly dominate Western Europe. Some of the Romance languages are official in the European Union and the Latin Union and the more prominent ones are studied in many educational institutions worldwide. Three of the Romance languages (Spanish, French, and Portuguese) are spoken by one billion speaker
1 Greek is the official language of Greece and Cyprus, and there are Greek-speaking enclaves in Albania, Bulgaria, Italy, the Republic of Macedonia, Romania, Georgia, Ukraine, Lebanon, Egypt, Israel, Jordan and Turkey, and in Greek communities around the world. Some of the Romance languages are official in the European Union and the Latin Union and the more prominent ones are studied in many educational institutions worldwide. Three of the Romance languages (Spanish, French, and Portuguese) are spoken by one billion speaker
The Indo-European languages are a family of related languages that today are widely spoken in the Americas, Europe, and also Western and Southern Asia. Branches of Indo-European Languages. The Indo-European languages have a large number of branches: Anatolian, Indo-Iranian, Greek, Italic, Celtic, Germanic, Armenian, Tocharian, Balto-Slavic and Albanian. Anatolian. This branch of languages was predominant in the Asian portion of Turkey and some areas in northern Syria.
There are three main language families in Europe. The largest is the Indo-European language family, with six sub-families represented in. INDO-EUROPEAN EUROPE. Indo-European is the largest language family in Europe. Indo-European languages are spoken throughout Europe, western Asia and, because of colonization, throughout North and South America and Oceania. Each sub-family of Indo-European represents a different part of the larger, Indo-European family of languages. Indo-European Sub-Families in Europe (you will be expected to know the first 3 families and at least one example from each of those three families).
The term Indo-European is essentially geographical since it refers to the easternmost extension of the family from the Indian subcontinent to its westernmost reach in Europe. The family includes most of the languages of Europe, as well as many languages of Southwest, Central and South Asia. It would not have been possible to establish the existence of the Indo-European language family if scholars had not compared the systematically recurring resemblances among European languages and Sanskrit, the oldest language of the Indian subcontinent that left many written documents.
Rutgers  Newark. The chart below shows the relations among some of the languages in the Indo-European family. Though you wouldn't think to look at the tangle of lines and arrows, the chart is very much simplified: many languages and even whole language families are left out. 
Languages that fall into this Indo-European classification include Romance languages, Germanic languages, including of course English, Balto-Slavic, Indo-Iranian and Celtic, plus extinct languages such as Tocharian, spoken in parts of China, and Hittite, spoken in Asia Minor. The Kurgan people took their language with them, giving rise to a secondary homeland of the Celtic, Italic, Germanic, Balto-Slavic, Greek and other European branches, while conquests in the south and east produced the various Indo-European languages of India, Persia and