Waterfall City, the CBD of Waterfall is conveniently located at the Allandale Road exit. This new commercial hub of Gauteng will boast the largest single phase mall in Africa, appropriately named The Mall of Africa. Reminiscent of the great urban gardens of the modern world, green planning infused all urban design at Waterfall. In Waterfall City a large landscaped urban garden links workspaces and the shopping mecca that is
Towards the South of the city you will find The Southgate Mall, The Glen and the Dobsonville Shopping Centre. The Southgate Mall is one of South Africa's top 10 malls in terms of size and has long served the nearby city of Soweto. Southgate has the largest complement of furniture stores in the region. Dobsonville Shopping Centre is the first major shopping complex in Soweto and is seen as a symbol of economic development in the area. Towards the East of the city you will find the Eastgate Mall. This mall is ideally situated within easy distance of the OR Tambo International Airport and the Johannesburg city centre.
At the epicentre of this energised precinct, Mall of Africa is a beacon celebrating connected living,” says Ehlers. Mall of Africa’s architectural form is inspired by the geological beauty of Africa, fitting for the jewel in Waterfall's crown. It reflects this splendour using wood, stone, glass, concrete and other natural materials. The mall’s centre court takes inspiration from the forests of central Africa. With the first free-flow intersection of its size in Africa at the nearby Allandale Road exit from the N1 Highway, getting to Mall of Africa is easy.
“Mall of Africa will be a visual, social and economic anchor within Waterfall City,” says Ehlers. Over 300 shops, with seven anchor tenants and a carefully considered retail mix, will create a unique retail experience at Mall of Africa. With the first free-flow intersection of its size in Africa at the nearby Allandale Road exit from the N1 Highway, getting to Mall of Africa is easy.
The new super-regional Mall of Africa will be the heart of the ambitious Waterfall, a city superbly situated between Johannesburg and Pretoria, and developed on a scale beyond anything South Africa has known. With the first free-flow intersection of its size in Africa at the nearby Allandale Road exit from the N1 Highway, getting to Mall of Africa is easy.
In 2013, Atterbury Properties announced plans to build the Mall of Africa, which would be the continent's largest. The Mall of Africa will be located within the green, mixed-use Waterfall City precinct. The N1 Business Park and International Business Gateway are among the prestigious commercial developments in Midrand. Midrand has the largest conference centre in South Africa which is known as Gallagher Estate which was built on the former site of Laerskool/Primary School Halfway House, which subsequently moved to new grounds near the firestation.
Midrand is an area in central Gauteng Province, South Africa. It is situated between Centurion and Kyalami, and is part of the City of Johannesburg Metropolitan Municipality. Midrand has the largest conference centre in South Africa which is known as Gallagher Estate which was built on the former site of Laerskool/Primary School Halfway House, which subsequently moved to new grounds near the firestation.
At the heart of Waterfall is the Mall of Africa, a 116 000 square meter shopping centre. The combination of its sheer scale – it is larger than Cape Town’s V&A Waterfront and will rival Sandton City in size and breadth – this landmark design is set to change the face of the Midrand area. Scheduled to open its doors in March 2016, Mall of Africa will create a destination that is defined by its exciting architecture and first class shopping experience for local shoppers and tourists alike – with broadband Wi-Fi coverage throughout, via a fibre optic cable.