The Rocky Mountains are notable for containing the highest peaks in central North America. The range's highest peak is Mount Elbert located in Colorado at 14,440 feet (4,401 m) above sea level. Mount Robson in British Columbia, at 12,972 feet (3,954 m), is the highest peak in the Canadian Rockies.
Mount Robson in British Columbia is the highest peak of the Canadian Rockies and is the most prominent summit of the Rocky Mountains. Granite Peak is the highest peak of the Beartooth Range and is the highest point of the State of Montana. The following sortable table lists the 100 most topographically isolated major mountain peaks of the Rocky Mountains with a topographic prominence of at least 500 meters (1640.4 feet). Topographic isolation is the minimum great circle distance to a point of higher elevation.
Mount Elbert in the Sawatch Range is the highest peak of the Rocky Mountains and the highest point in the U.S. State of Colorado. This article comprises sortable tables of major mountain peaks of the Rocky Mountains of North America. The following sortable table lists the 100 most topographically isolated major mountain peaks of the Rocky Mountains with a topographic prominence of at least 500 meters (1640.4 feet). Topographic isolation is the minimum great circle distance to a point of higher elevation.
The Rocky Mountains are notable for containing the highest peaks in central North America. The range's highest peak is Mount Elbert located in Colorado at 14,440 feet (4,401 m) above sea level. Mount Robson in British Columbia, at 12,972 feet (3,954 m), is the highest peak in the Canadian Rockies. The Rocky Mountains, commonly known as the Rockies, are a major mountain range in western North America. The Rocky Mountains stretch more than 3,000 miles (4,800 km) from the northernmost part of British Columbia, in western Canada, to New Mexico, in the southwestern United States.
100 Highest Mountains in the Rockies. Description: The one hundred highest summits in the Rocky Mountains all reside within the boundaries of Colorado. This list consists of Colorado's 14ers (mountains above 14,000 feet) and Centennial 13ers.. 
Kings Peak is the highest peak of the Uinta Range and the Western Rocky Mountains and is the highest point of the State of Utah. Wheeler Peak in the Sangre de Cristo Mountains is the highest point of the State of New Mexico. The following sortable table lists the 100 most topographically isolated major mountain peaks of the Rocky Mountains with a topographic prominence of at least 500 meters (1640.4 feet). Topographic isolation is the minimum great circle distance to a point of higher elevation.
Mount Elbert in Colorado is the tallest mountain in the Rocky Mountain's main chain at 14440 feet above sea level. The highest mountain in the Rockies is Mt. Elbert in Colorado at 14,433 feet above sea level.
Mount Elbert is the highest peak in the Rocky Mountains of North America, at 14,440 feet (4,401 m). 4 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Attractions at Jiminy Peak Mountain Resort Jiminy Peak is a mountain resort located in Hancock, Massachusetts in the Berkshire mountains. 1
In addition, the high peaks of the range make it popular for mountain climbing. The highest peak in the Rocky Mountains is Mount Elbert at 14,400 feet (4,401 m) and is located in Colorado. Geology of the Rocky Mountains. The geologic age of the Rocky Mountains varies based on location. Scenics of America/PhotoLink/Getty Images. The Rocky Mountains are a large mountain range located in the western part of North America in the United States and Canada. The Rockies as they are also known, pass through northern New Mexico and into Colorado, Wyoming, Idaho and Montana.