Cooler temperatures may have driven sun-seekers away, but a fall visit to Nantucket is still worth it. There's a healthy crop of festivals, and most of the island's top sites keep their doors open for this shoulder season. Better yet, prices tend to ease up this time of year. From Memorial Day to Labor Day, hotels and seafood restaurants capitalize on the throngs of deep-pocketed tourists. And from November to February, the temperatures are too cold for most — lows average between 25 and 40 degrees Fahrenheit.
Check the Nantucket, Massachusetts weather in May before you book your next holiday. This gives the best indication of the weather in May and includes figures for temperature, sunshine and rainfall. 1  16°C max day temperature. Get FREE offers. Travel deals & exclusive discounts on holidays, flights, hotels & more... We promise not to share your details. We help you find the best travel deals for your holiday in the sun by sharing tips on when and where to go, before providing you with top discounts.
n/a. The highest average temperature in Nantucket is August at 70.9 degrees. The coldest average temperature in Nantucket is January at 29.7 degrees. The most monthly precipitation in Nantucket occurs in January with 0 inches. The Nantucket weather information is based on the average of the previous 3-7 years of data. The Nantucket, MA air quality index is a median value which considers the most hazardous air pollutants. The Nantucket, MA air quality index is 18.4% less than the Massachusetts average and 33.6% less than the national average.
The best time to visit Nantucket is during the shoulder months of March, April, September and October. You'll find the island pleasantly free of tourist hordes, and prices are more manageable, too. From Memorial Day to Labor Day, hotels and seafood restaurants capitalize on the throngs of deep-pocketed tourists. And from November to February, the temperatures are too cold for most — lows average between 25 and 40 degrees Fahrenheit. Winters aren't a total bust: There are a handful of nice holiday festivals and the island's seasonal establishments typically don't shut down until after Christmas
Climate data for Nantucket, MA - 2554 - 1961-1990 normals-weather. Jan: January, Feb: February, Mar: March, Apr: April, May: May, Jun: June, Jul: July, Aug: August, Sep: September, Oct: October, Nov: November, Dec: December. 