The kidneys are bean-shaped with the convex side of each organ located laterally and the concave side medial. The indentation on the concave side of the kidney, known as the renal hilus, provides a space for the renal artery, renal vein, and ureter to enter the kidney. The kidneys are a pair of organs found along the posterior muscular wall of the abdominal cavity. The left kidney is located slightly more superior than the right kidney due to the larger size of the liver on the right side of the body.
The renal veins drain the kidneys in a similar distribution, and the renal vein is generally anterior to the renal artery at the hilum. The left renal vein is longer than the right as it crosses the midline to reach the inferior vena cava (IVC). The kidneys receive approximately 20% of the cardiac output. The blood supply to the kidneys arises from the paired renal arteries at the level of L2. They enter into the renal hilum, the passageway into the kidney, with the renal vein anteriorly; the renal artery; and the renal pelvis posteriorly.
On the medial margin of the kidney is concave region called the renal hilus. The renal hilum is the entrance to the renal sinus. Structures such as the renal veins, artery, nerves and lymphatic vessels are located in the renal hilum. The renal sinus is a fat-filled cavity inside the kidney that extends from the hilum. At the hilum the ureters also exit the kidney. The kidney is covered by a fibrous renal capsule.
Renal veins. There are two renal veins, a left and a right. They branch off the inferior vena cava and drain oxygen-depleted blood from the kidneys. As they enter the kidneys, each vein separates into two parts. The posterior veins assist in draining the back section of each kidney, while the anterior veins assist the front part. These veins should not be confused with the renal aorta. Unlike veins, the renal aorta delivers oxygenated blood to the kidneys. To simplify, the aorta carries blood to the kidneys while veins move the blood away. There are two notable diseases that involve the renal veins. If a clot (or thrombus) develops, this can cause renal vein thrombosis (RVT)
The arterial supply of the kidneys is variable and there may be one or more renal arteries supplying each kidney. It is located above the renal vein. Supernumerary renal arteries (two or more arteries to a single kidney) are the most common renovascular anomaly, occurrence ranging from 25% to 40% of kidneys. The renal arteries normally arise off the side of the abdominal aorta, immediately below the superior mesenteric artery, and supply the kidneys with blood. Each is directed across the crus of the diaphragm, so as to form nearly a right angle with the aorta.
Overview. The kidneys are paired retroperitoneal structures that are normally located between the transverse processes of T12-L3 vertebrae, with the left kidney typically somewhat more superior in position than the right. The upper poles are normally oriented more medially and posteriorly than the lower poles. The kidneys receive approximately 20% of the cardiac output. The blood supply to the kidneys arises from the paired renal arteries at the level of L2. They enter into the renal hilum, the passageway into the kidney, with the renal vein anteriorly; the renal artery; and the renal pelvis posteriorly.
Due to the position of the aorta, the inferior vena cava, and the kidneys in the body, the right renal artery is normally longer than the left renal artery. 1  The right passes behind the inferior vena cava, the right renal vein, the head of the pancreas, and the descending part of the duodenum. The renal arteries normally arise off the side of the abdominal aorta, immediately below the superior mesenteric artery, and supply the kidneys with blood. Each is directed across the crus of the diaphragm, so as to form nearly a right angle with the aorta.
Renal artery. There are two blood vessels leading off from the abdominal aorta that go to the kidneys. The renal artery is one of these two blood vessels. The renal artery enters through the hilum, which is located where the kidney curves inward in a concave shape. 
Before reaching the hilus of the kidney, each artery divides into four or five branches; the greater number of these (anterior branches) lie between the renal vein and ureter, the vein being in front, the ureter behind, but one or more branches (posterior branches) are usually situated behind the ureter. The renal arteries normally arise off the side of the abdominal aorta, immediately below the superior mesenteric artery, and supply the kidneys with blood. Each is directed across the crus of the diaphragm, so as to form nearly a right angle with the aorta.