This is a big family of big spiders. Some species are small but most are large: they range from 3-30 mm in body length. Female wolf spiders are often bigger than males of the same species. Like all spiders they have two body sections: the cephalothorax in front and an abdomen behind. The abdomen contains the digestive and reproductive systems, and on the underside of it are the glands where silk is produced. Wolf spiders live in all kinds of habitats, anywhere there are insects to eat. They seem to be most common in open habitats like grasslands, and are often found in farm fields and meadows. Most species stay on the ground, but a few climb up onto trees and other plants when hunting.
Wolf Spiders live in both coastal and inland habitats. The Wolf Spider is one of the few types of spiders that do not spin a web. Instead, the Wolf Spider dwells on or under the ground, with a burrow as its retreat. Around the home the Wolf Spider will make a burrow in gardens, lining its burrow with silk
Wolf Spiders don't spin webs to catch their prey. Rather, they are hunters that run down their prey and capture it, just like a real wolf. Wolf Spiders have good eyesight compared to other spiders. The wolf spider can run fast and quickly pounce on its prey, and bite it with its powerful jaws. 
Burrows in the Ground. Wolf spiders do not spin webs and reside instead within burrows. These burrows may be open or sealed with silken doors. In rainy seasons, wolf spiders plug their burrows with pebbles and build turrets to deflect floodwater. Twigs may also be placed at the top of the burrow. 
Let us enjoy the most amazing wolf spider facts including wolf spider diet, habitat, reproduction, and its hunting behavior. Wolf spider belongs to the family of Lycosidae. These spiders are agile hunters and they tend to camouflage themselves against any threats. Thanks to their fancy patterns and body-color with the help of which wolf spiders can blend themselves with the background. 1 The average lifespan of a wolf spider is one season and it seldom exceeds 18 months. 2  They are one of the fastest runners among spider’s family, covering up to 2 feet per second. 3  They employ this much speed while chasing prey. 4  They are speedy-greedy hunters.
There are around 125 species that are found in the United States and about 50 species that are found in Europe. A full grown wolf spider is typically a half an inch to two inches in length; they are usually brown or gray with various stripe-like markings on their backs. Wolf Spider (Family: Lycosidae). Wolf spiders or lycosids are fairly common predators that feed on large insects and other spiders. They are not known to be aggressive, but they will bite in self-defense if handled roughly. Their venom is not particularly dangerous.
1 Family: Lycosidae. 2  Genera & species: There are more than 100 genera and about 2,300 species of wolf spiders; 200 species live in the United States. 3  The Carolina wolf spider (Hogna carolinensis) is the official state spider of South Carolina, which is the only state that has a state spider. Unlike most spiders that catch their prey in webs, wolf spiders violently hunt it down using their strong bodies and sharp eyesight. These spiders also exhibit unique parenting habits that are of great interest to scientists.
1 Genera & species: There are more than 100 genera and about 2,300 species of wolf spiders; 200 species live in the United States. 2  The Carolina wolf spider (Hogna carolinensis) is the official state spider of South Carolina, which is the only state that has a state spider. Unlike most spiders that catch their prey in webs, wolf spiders violently hunt it down using their strong bodies and sharp eyesight. These spiders also exhibit unique parenting habits that are of great interest to scientists.