Some common modes of fermentation in bacteria other than E. coli include lactic acid fermentation, butyric acid fermentation, propionic acid fermentation, ethanol fermentation, and mixed acid fermentation. 
1 Glucose is a sugar from which most common chemoheterotrophic bacteria can obtain energy by fermentation and/or respiration. 2  Glucose can also be utilized as a source of carbon, but these media include a large number of potential carbon sources (amino acids as well as glucose), and whether or not glucose is used as a. For this test we routinely use a  Glucose Fermentation Broth 1  .. Fermentation of glucose results in the abundant production of acidic end products, the presence of which can be detected by the pH indicator in the medium. 2  Many organisms produce gas – either CO 2 alone or a mixture of H 2 and CO 2.
In homolactic fermentation, one molecule of glucose is ultimately converted to two molecules of lactic acid. Heterolactic fermentation, in contrast, yields carbon dioxide and ethanol in addition to lactic acid, in a process called the phosphoketolase pathway. Lactic acid fermentation is used in many areas of the world to produce foods that cannot be produced through other methods. The most commercially important genus of lactic acid-fermenting bacteria is Lactobacillus, though other bacteria and even yeast are sometimes used.
Fermentation in progress: Bubbles of CO2 form a froth on top of the fermentation mixture. Overview of ethanol fermentation. One glucose molecule breaks down into two pyruvate molecules (1). The energy from this exothermic reaction is used to bind inorganic phosphates to ATP and convert NAD+ to NADH. Homolactic fermentation (producing only lactic acid) is the simplest type of fermentation. The pyruvate from glycolysis undergoes a simple redox reaction, forming lactic acid. It is unique because it is one of the only respiration processes to not produce a gas as a byproduct.
1 Fermentation: 2  A smaller variety of substrates can be fermented. 3  Many organisms which can ferment sugars will not ferment amino acids. 4  The substrate is less completely broken down. 5  A relatively larger variety of end products is produced. 6  Much acid (and possibly gas) is produced when sugars are fermented. Both Glucose Fermentation Broth (as used in our lab courses) and Glucose O/F Medium include the following major ingredients: 1  Glucose – a sugar from which most common chemoheterotrophic bacteria can obtain energy – by fermentation and/or respiration.
Some bacteria can grow in the nutrient medium but cannot ferment the sugar, while other bacteria can ferment the sugar, producing nonacidic and/or gaseous end products. In both cases, the medium will remain alkaline, or red. Some of the nonacidic end products of fermentation are acetone, butanol, and ethanol. Bacillus subtilis can ferment more than one type of sugar, such as sucrose and dextrose, but cannot ferment other types of sugars, such as lactose. B. subtilis is a gram-positive rod often found in soil and decomposing organic matter; it is a common laboratory contaminate.
Lactic acid fermentation is a biological process by which glucose and other six-carbon sugars (also, disaccharides of six-carbon sugars, e.g. sucrose or lactose) are converted into cellular energy and the metabolite lactate. Lactic acid fermentation is used in many areas of the world to produce foods that cannot be produced through other methods. The most commercially important genus of lactic acid-fermenting bacteria is Lactobacillus, though other bacteria and even yeast are sometimes used.
The types of sugars that bacteria are able to ferment as well as the end products produced are important characteristics used in the identification of bacteria. The number and types of sugars that a given microbe can assimilate will determine to a large extent the environments in which it can survive and grow. Bacillus subtilis can ferment more than one type of sugar, such as sucrose and dextrose, but cannot ferment other types of sugars, such as lactose. B. subtilis is a gram-positive rod often found in soil and decomposing organic matter; it is a common laboratory contaminate.