Most companies will have a procedure to perform a golden weld, but at the end of the day it's what we always referred to as a final tie-in and basically you do a 100% RT or UT NDT on the weld in lieu of pressure testing it. RE: Golden Weld. GregLamberson: You mentioned The latest edition of B31.3 permits the same waiver of a hydrotest as 31.4 on “Tie-in” welds between two sections of piping that have been previously tested in accordance with the code.. I have been unable to find this in B31.3-2004.
RE: Golden Weld. A golden weld is a weld that has not been included in the hydrotest for a variety of reasons, but has been subjected to complete NDT. We used to refer to these simply as final tie-ins, which is a much more accurate description. There is nothing special nor golden about the welds. RE: Golden Weld. GregLamberson: You mentioned The latest edition of B31.3 permits the same waiver of a hydrotest as 31.4 on “Tie-in” welds between two sections of piping that have been previously tested in accordance with the code.. I have been unable to find this in B31.3-2004.
Best Answer: Golden welds is a concept that is used in conjunction with pipeline lay and repair. The golden weld is an accepted weld without solid (and more tangible) proof of strength, for example a break test or load test..
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Golden welds is a concept that is used in conjunction with pipeline lay and repair. The golden weld is an accepted weld without solid (and more tangible) proof of strength, for example a break test or load test. The angle of the torch or tungsten electrode like that used in Tig welding, or the MiG stinger, or any consumable rod like that of a 7018 rod used in SMAW welding. All run a … little bit cooler of a puddle of molten metal when held at an angle.
The golden weld is an accepted weld without solid (and more tangible) proof of strength, fo … r example a break test or load test. 
by FeryD. Golden welds is a concept that is used in conjunction with pipeline lay and repair. The golden weld is an accepted weld without solid (and more tangible) proof of strength, for example a break test or load test. Before a pipeline is put into use, it is often pressure-tested with water (a hydrotest) to a level above the working pressure of the pipeline. In short: In the pipeline industry it is accepted that you don't pressure test a system component (eg. a weld) if you can prove by inspection and calculation that it is strong enough.
English term or phrase: Tie-in welds and golden weld, fillet pipe weld. E é um texto sobre, tecnicas (técnicas.) EQUIPAMENTOS (etc end-ensaios). Nao não destrutivos, em certo ponto o texto traz uma. Lista de applications um dos itens: - E-é justamente esse tie in, welds and golden. weld fillet pipe weld GLOSSARY ENTRY (DERIVED FROM QUESTION BELOW)English term or phrase:Tie-in welds and golden weld, fillet pipe weldPortuguese translation:soldas de conexao conexão de tubos e solda, golden solda de tubos fileteEntered fileteentered: By KennedyOptions:- Kennedyoptions contribute to this-Entry include in personal glossary:13 02 sep, 16. 2010
English term or phrase: Tie-in welds and golden weld, fillet pipe weld. E é um texto sobre, tecnicas (técnicas.) EQUIPAMENTOS (etc end-ensaios). Nao não destrutivos, em certo ponto o texto traz uma. Lista de applications um dos itens: - E-é justamente esse tie in, welds and golden. Weld, fillet pipe. weld assim como esta está GLOSSARY ENTRY (DERIVED FROM QUESTION BELOW)English term or phrase:Tie-in welds and golden weld, fillet pipe weldPortuguese translation:soldas de conexao conexão de tubos e solda, golden solda de tubos fileteEntered fileteentered: By KennedyOptions:- Kennedyoptions contribute to this-Entry include in personal glossary:13 02 sep, 16. 2010
It is here that the Golden weld concept comes into play. In short: In the pipeline industry it is accepted that you don't pressure test a system component (eg. a weld) if you can prove by inspection and calculation that it is strong enough. Inspection is often stated to be at least: In short: In the pipeline industry it is accepted that you don't pressure test a system component (eg. a weld) if you can prove by inspection and calculation that it is strong enough