Inergen / IG-541. INERGEN agent is composed of three naturally occurring gases found in the air we breathe-nitrogen, argon and a small amount of carbon dioxide, which improves human safety. Fires are suppressed quickly with no residue to clean up. The Ansul Inergen Fire Suppression System is a pre-engineered, stored pressure with a fixed nozzle distribution network. It is listed with Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. (UL).
INERGEN is composed of three naturally occurring gases, nitrogen (52% by volume), argon (40% by volume) and carbon dioxide (8% by volume). When they are released, they migrate unchanged into the atmosphere. Atmospheric ozone is not affected. INERGEN meets the needs and requirements of security-conscious users. It not only ensures the protection of people and tangible assets but also aids the environment.
The effectiveness of INERGEN as an extinguishing agent relies on the reduction of oxygen content that occurs as a result of its three components in the event of fire. The special mixture of nitrogen and argon ensures a specific weight for the extinguishing atmosphere that is almost the same as that of normal air. INERGEN meets the needs and requirements of security-conscious users. It not only ensures the protection of people and tangible assets but also aids the environment.
INERGEN Agent – INERGEN agent is a mixture of three inerting (oxygen diluting) gases: 52% nitrogen, 40% argon, and 8% carbon dioxide. INERGEN gas extinguishes fire by lowering the oxygen content below the level that supports combustion. Accessories are used to provide alarms, ventilation control, door closures, or other auxiliary shutdown or functions. When INERGEN agent is discharged into a room, it introduces the proper mixture of gases that will allow a person to breathe in a reduced oxygen atmosphere.
When INERGEN agent is discharged into a room, it introduces the proper mixture of gases that still allow a person to breathe in a reduced oxygen atmosphere. It actually enhances the body’s ability to assimilate oxygen. The normal atmosphere in a room contains 21% oxygen and less than 1% carbon dioxide. Accessories are used to provide alarms, ventilation control, door closures, or other auxiliary shutdown or functions. When INERGEN agent is discharged into a room, it introduces the proper mixture of gases that w
This is the basic process by which a material such as INERGEN causes extinguishment of a fire while allowing persons to breath as they egress the hazard area. Thus INERGEN functions as both an extinguishing and inerting agent. 
Overview. INERGEN® is a mixture of 52% Nitrogen, 40% Argon and 8% CO2. However, in the event of a fire, when INERGEN® is discharged, it mixes with the air present in the room to create a mixture that comprises of 67.3% Nitrogen, 12.5% Oxygen, 17% Argon and 3.2% Carbon Dioxide. This discharge mixture makes INERGEN® singularly unique. INERGEN® Conventional 300 bar inert gaseous fire suppression systems are ideally suited for medium sized “Business Critical Areas” of protection.” It is controlled by a Conventional fire detection and alarm system specifically designed and dedicated for gas release.
Gaseous fire suppression is a term to describe the use of inert gases and chemical agents to extinguish a fire. Also called Clean Agent Fire Suppression. These Agents are governed by the NFPA Standard for Clean Agent Fire Extinguishing Systems – NFPA 2001 in the USA, with different standards and regulations in other parts of the world.
The system typically consists of the agent, agent storage containers, agent release valves, fire detectors, fire detection system (wiring control panel, actuation signaling), agent delivery piping, and agent dispersion nozzles. Also called Clean Agent Fire Suppression. These Agents are governed by the NFPA Standard for Clean Agent Fire Extinguishing Systems – NFPA 2001 in the USA, with different standards and regulations in other parts of the world.
FM 200, a halocarbon, and Inergen, an inert gas, emerged as the leading replacements once Halon was phased out in the United States in 1994. Similar to Halon, they both extinguish fires by interrupting the flaming process chemically and reducing the fire oxygen's content. FM 200 vs. Inergen. Halon was the extinguishing agent of choice used up until the early 1990's. It provided a high level of property protection with very little secondary damage.