A potato chip (American English) or crisp (British English) is a thin slice of potato that has been deep fried, baked, kettle cooked, or popped until crunchy. Potato chips are commonly served as a snack, side dish, or appetizer. Potato chips are a predominant part of the snack food market in Western countries. The global potato chip market generated total revenues of US$16.49 billion in 2005. This accounted for 35.5% of the total savory snacks market in that year ($46.1 billion).
crisp. adj. crisp·er, crisp·est. 1. Firm but easily broken or crumbled; brittle: crisp potato chips. 2. Pleasingly firm and fresh: crisp carrot and celery sticks. 3. a. Bracing; invigorating: crisp mountain air. b. Lively; sprightly: music with a crisp rhythm. 4. Conspicuously clean or new: a crisp dollar bill. 5. 
For more patient information about CRISP, or if you do not wish to share your health information, click here. Consumers can now create an electronic advance directive through CRISP. CRISP has partnered with MyDirectives.com to allow consumers in Maryland to create an electronic advance directive. Once completed, practitioners using CRISP will have access to your electronic advance directive. To get started creating your electronic advance directive, go to: https://mydirectives.com
More example sentences. 1  Turn a potato into a potato crisp and you have gone from something with a tiny profit margin to a problematic foodstuff that has an enormous one. 2  Found in certain brands of potato crisp, it works because the body cannot absorb it. 1 (Of a substance) firm, dry, and brittle: crisp bacon the snow is lovely and crisp. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  That and the fact that when all else fails, she spreads a dollop of honey over my slightly buttered, highly crisp slices of toast.
CRISP-DM stands for cross-industry process for data mining. The CRISP-DM methodology provides a structured approach to planning a data mining project. It is a robust and well-proven methodology. We do not claim any ownership over it. CRISP-DM consists of four levels, moving from the general to the specific, and each level involves a number of tasks. The four levels can be seen in the diagram below. The generic tasks are intended to be as complete and stable as possible.
If you enter the Crisp office you will see these two A3 papers on the wall (click picture for bigger version). Here is an english translation of these pictures. 
verb. 1 Give (food) a crisp surface by placing it in an oven or under a grill: crisp the pitta in the oven. More example sentences. 1  Devon was evacuating because he'd crisped himself like bacon. 2  All that's left to do is give the confit legs a quick blast in the oven to crisp up the skin, saute sauté some greens and'you re.  off 1 (Of a substance) firm, dry, and brittle: crisp bacon the snow is lovely and crisp. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  That and the fact that when all else fails, she spreads a dollop of honey over my slightly buttered, highly crisp slices of toast.
crisp. Stemming from its Greco-Roman origin cri, which means absolute greatness, it is used to describe anything that would be considered cool, awesome, hot or really fucking legit. Brooks Brothers has the most crisp non-irons.. 
CRISP is a regional health information exchange (HIE) serving Maryland and the District of Columbia. We are a not-for-profit organization advised by a wide range of stakeholders who are responsible for healthcare throughout the region. CRISP has partnered with MyDirectives.com to allow consumers in Maryland to create an electronic advance directive. Once completed, practitioners using CRISP will have access to your electronic advance directive. To get started creating your electronic advance directive, go to: https://mydirectives.com