Our Pro Shop at the Mare Island Golf Club in Vallejo, California is here to make sure you've got everything you need before you hit the course. From gloves to balls, to hats to tees, you'll find all of your golfing necessities in our Pro Shop. Gift certificates are also available for those hard to shop for golfers. 
The Mare Island Naval Shipyard (MINSY) was the first United States Navy base established on the Pacific Ocean. Patriotism and esprit de corps among the workers ran very high. Mare Island's military and civilian workforce raised almost $76M in war bonds; enough to pay for every one of the submarines built at MINSY prior to VJ Day. More than 300 landing craft were built at Mare Island.
Greatest single accomplishment of Mare Island, Vallejo, Navy Yard, was the construction of the U.S.S. California, now flagship of the battle force and one of our largest battleships.
By L.L. Thoreson. Mare Island, Vallejo, is Uncle Sams principal seat of Pacific Coast defense. Here, in the Wests first and greatest U.S. Navy Yard, lies the task of maintaining the Pacific fleet at topmost efficiency, and the additional job of building new warships as the American defense program increases.reatest single accomplishment of Mare Island, Vallejo, Navy Yard, was the construction of the U.S.S. California, now flagship of the battle force and one of our largest battleships.
Mare Island Historic Park Foundation is a 501(c)(3) Publicly Supported Organization established in 1995. Our Mission is to preserve and present to the public the history of the West's first Naval Base and Shipyard. David Glasgow Farragut founded the Mare Island Shipyard in 1854, and the Navy closed the yard in 1996. During that period, over 500 ships, including nuclear submarines, were built at Mare Island Naval Shipyard. We are currently conducting a major effort to acquire the USS OLYMPIA; the MIHPF is caretaker for the sail of SSBN 658 Mariano G. Vallejo in its move to a permanent display on Mare Island; and USS LCS-102 is now at the Mare Island Waterfront.
It is located 25 miles northeast of San Francisco in Vallejo, California. The Napa River goes through the Mare Island Strait and separates the peninsula shipyard (Mare Island, California) from the main portion of the city of Vallejo.atriotism and esprit de corps among the workers ran very high. Mare Island's military and civilian workforce raised almost $76M in war bonds; enough to pay for every one of the submarines built at MINSY prior to VJ Day. More than 300 landing craft were built at Mare Island.
Mare Island is considered a peninsula because no full body of water separates this or several other named islands from the mainland. Instead, a series of small sloughs cause seasonal water-flows among the so-called islands. Mare Island is the largest of these at about 3.5 miles (5.6 km) long and a mile wide. In 1775, Spanish explorer Perez Ayala was the first European to land on what would become Mare Island-he named it Isla de la Plana. This area was part of Rancho Suscol, deeded to General Mariano Guadalupe Vallejo in 1844. It became a waypoint for early settlers.
Be a part of history at Mare Island Golf Club in Vallejo! Mare Island Golf Club in Vallejo, California was established in 1892, making it the oldest course west of the Mississippi. Recently expanded back to a full 18-hole facility by renowned Pacific Rim architect Robin Nelson, the new course is designed to challenge golfers of all abilities. The majority of holes at Mare Island Golf Club offer a magnificent view of San Pablo Bay, the Napa River, Mt. Tamalpais and on a clear day the Golden Gate Bridge. No other Bay Area course has more panoramic vistas. Come play the Mare Island Golf Club in Vallejo, California today!
Aerial photo of the southern part of Mare Island. Mare Island is a peninsula in the United States in the city of Vallejo, California, about 23 miles (37 km) northeast of San Francisco. The Napa River forms its eastern side as it enters the Carquinez Strait juncture with the east side of San Pablo Bay.n 1775, Spanish explorer Perez Ayala was the first European to land on what would become Mare Island-he named it Isla de la Plana. This area was part of Rancho Suscol, deeded to General Mariano Guadalupe Vallejo in 1844. It became a waypoint for early settlers.