ATP is found in the cytoplasm of the cell. The cytoplasm is the gel-type filler of the cell where all of the organelles of the cell hang out. This location makes sense because the ATP needs to be near all of the cell parts so that it can supply them with the energy they need for chemical and mechanical reactions. Definition. Adenosine triphosphate, or ATP for short, is the energy currency of life. ATP is a high-energy molecule found in every cell. Its job is to store and supply the cell with needed energy.
Respiration and Fermentation Process of converting glucose to a useable form of energy Respiration uses Oxygen and is very efficient Fermentation does not need Oxygen but is very inefficient ATP Adenosine Tri-phosphate A compound that “powers” the cell All cell parts need ATP to work properly Without ATP, the cell dies. 
2. ATP, or adenosine triphosphate, is formed after the binding of one phosphate molecule (phosphorylation) to one ADP (adenosine diphosphate) molecule. This is a process that stores energy in the produced ATP molecule. When ATP provides energy to the cellular metabolism, it releases one of its phosphate ions and ADP reappears. ADP can also release more phosphate ions and generate AMP (adenosine monophosphate) or even non-phosphorylated adenosine.
The final product of the breakdown must be a molecule that cell can use to produce energy – ATP (Adenosine Triphosphate). ATP (Adenosine Triphosphate). Cells use ATP as primary energy source. In ATP, three phosphate molecules are linked by high-energy bonds. When a bond between the phosphates is broken energy is released and may be used by muscles. The short-term source of energy produce ATP by the break down of glucose in process called glycolysis. It can supply ATP for no more than 2 minutes of maximal work. The long-term source of energy produces ATP by using mainly carbohydrates, fat and oxygen.
By Antranik 5 Comments. Cellular respiration is the process by which organic compounds (preferably glucose) are broken apart, releasing energy that is used to produce ATP molecules. Cells need to have ATP because it’s the gasoline that powers all living things. One glucose will give you as much as 38 ATP, similar to the way a $10 bill will give you 40 quarters. A fat molecule is more like a $100 bill because it has that much more energy. Since ATP is found in all living things it’s sometimes called the energy currency of cells, which goes well with this laundromat analogy.
Starting with glucose, 1 ATP is used to donate a phosphate to glucose to produce glucose 6-phosphate. Glycogen can be converted into glucose 6-phosphate as well with the help of glycogen phosphorylase. During energy metabolism, glucose 6-phosphate becomes fructose 6-phosphate. Cellular respiration is the set of metabolic reactions and processes that take place in the cells of organisms to convert biochemical energy from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate (ATP), and then release waste products.
Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is the usable form of energy produced by respiration. ATP is like electricity: it contains the same energy as coal, but it’s easier to transport and is just what’s needed when the cell needs some power to carry out a task. Glycolysis is the first stage of aerobic (and anaerobic) respiration. It takes place in the cytoplasm of the cell. In glycolysis (“glucose breaking”), ATP is used to split glucose molecules into a three-carbon compound called pyruvate. This splitting produces energy that is stored in ATP and a molecule called NADH.
Steps of the anaerobic glycolytic system: 1  Initially stored glycogen is converted to glucose. 2  Glucose is then broken down by a series of enzymes. 3  2 ATP are used to fuel glycolysis and 4 are created so the body gains 2 ATP to use for muscular contraction. 