2) If you are unhappy with the job profile, then you can say sir I want to analyse the work not just work for whatever you are allotted with. I am well qualified and I think I can do something better with my work, which I feel I am not getting that kind of scope in my company. Sir I want to work at your company because of I read about your company on the internet and I got a lot of information about your company that inspire me I know that I can improve my knowledge and skill that's why I want to work at your company. Comments Received: Please give your suggestions and feedback: Your Name *:
I have know all things about your company it is a number one company in our state if I work here I want to improve my skills and knowledge because it core subject for me this will helps me as a electronics engineer in as my dream and also I work hard compared me to others thanking you Sir. Sir I want to work at your company because of I read about your company on the internet and I got a lot of information about your company that inspire me I know that I can improve my knowledge and skill that's why I want to work at your company. Comments Received: Please give your suggestions and feedback: Your Name *:
The company doing the interview wants to know why you are applying for a job with them. They are trying to find out if you are submitting resumes everywhere or if you have a particular interest in their company. Research the company before the interview. Find out exactly what the company does, its goals, strategies, vision etc., and then decide how you as a person with your skill set … can fit into the company. Always be prepared for an interview
I think you should be your real self rather than forming what you  are not. Tell them what you can give to your company not what you  can get from your company.    The best thing to do in a job interview is walk and talk as if you  are already have the job. Proceed like you have the most confidence  in the world and there is no competition because you are the best. Research the company before the interview. Find out exactly what the company does, its goals, strategies, vision etc., and then decide how you as a person with your skill set … can fit into the company. Always be prepared for an interview
Toss that around, chose the best way you would phrase it using your own personality. You are right, they dont want to hear...Cause I need a job. They know that already, that is why you are there. Job seekers need to remember...an employer is looking for someone to help THEM. An employee gets the job to make money helping the EMPLOYER make more money. They hire you to do that, make money for them. Best Answer: I wouldn't make myself sound like a brown nose, but I would definitely present myself as if I had a genuine interest in the product they're selling. List your qualifications. Vaguely explain yourself and why you're qualified.
If you want to make a hit, then take the time to understand the basics of your target company's brand. Be prepared to tap into the company's carefully crafted reputation from your first conversation all the way through the hiring process. Here are five possible answers to the why do you want to work here question. Pick and choose from them, and expand with the facts of your particular situation. Thereby, you can demonstrate that you've done your research, your interest is real and your candidacy makes sense: 1
Remember, the question was WHY DID YOU CHOOSE THIS CAREER?  and not WHY DO YOU WANT THIS JOB? or WHY DO YOU WANT TO WORK FOR ME?. So if the interviewer is not convinced that your career choice was on purpose and not by choice, your job would definitely be at stake. 
I have an interview at a retail store and I always get this question, how do I answer without sounding like I just want a job and they were the first to respond. Follow. Best Answer: I wouldn't make myself sound like a brown nose, but I would definitely present myself as if I had a genuine interest in the product they're selling. List your qualifications. Vaguely explain yourself and why you're qualified.