The 19th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, guaranteeing women the right to vote, is passed by Congress and sent to the states for ratification. The women’s suffrage movement was founded in the mid-19th century by women who had become politically active through their work in the abolitionist and temperance movements. In 1919, the 19th Amendment, which stated that “the rights of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of sex,” passed both houses of Congress and was sent to the states for ratification.
Introduction. Ratified on August 18, 1920, the 19th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution granted American women the right to vote—a right known as woman suffrage. At the time the U.S. was founded, its female citizens did not share all of the same rights as men, including the right to vote. Stanton and some other suffrage leaders objected to the proposed 15th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, which would give black men the right to vote, but failed to extend the same privilege to American women of any skin color.
The 19th Amendment, passed by Congress in 1919, and ratified in 1920, ultimately gave women the right to vote. The history of the 19th Amendment is steeped in lengthy struggle … s and campaigns, referred to as the Women's Suffrage Movement. The 19th amendment gave American women suffrage, or the right to  vote, when it was ratified in 1920. It's important because it was a  step toward gender equality
The Nineteenth Amendment (Amendment XIX) to the United States Constitution prohibits any United States citizen from being denied the right to vote on the basis of sex. It was ratified on August 18, 1920. The Nineteenth Amendment was first introduced in Congress in 1878 by Senator Aaron A. Sargent. Forty-one years later, in 1919, Congress approved the amendment and submitted it to the states for ratification. It was ratified by the requisite number of states a year later, with Tennessee 's ratification being the final vote needed to add the amendment to the Constitution
The 19th Amendment, passed by Congress in 1919, and ratified in 1920, ultimately gave women the right to vote. The history of the 19th Amendment is steeped in lengthy struggle … s and campaigns, referred to as the Women's Suffrage Movement. By the year 1878, a constitutional amendment was proposed, before congress, that provided, The right of citizens to vote shall not be abridged by the United States or by any State on account of sex.. This same constitutional amendment was proposed, for the next 41 years and ultimately passed by congress in 1919.
Passed by Congress June 4, 1919, and ratified on August 18, 1920, the 19th amendment guarantees all American women the right to vote. Achieving this milestone required a lengthy and difficult struggle; victory took decades of agitation and protest. Joint Resolution of Congress proposing a constitutional amendment extending the right of suffrage to women, May 19, 1919; Ratified Amendments, 1795-1992; General Records of the United States Government; Record Group 11; National Archives.