A Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) is a corporate official in charge of overseeing and managing compliance issues within an organization, ensuring, for example, that a company is complying with regulatory requirements and that the company and its employees are complying with internal policies and procedures. 1 Policy and Procedure Management -- defining, communicating, training and attesting to corporate policies and procedures. 2  Compliance Monitoring -- evaluating and measuring the state of compliance across the organization.
A compliance officer may review and set standards for outside communications by requiring disclaimers in emails, or may examine facilities to ensure that they are accessible and safe. Compliance officers may also design or update internal policies to mitigate the risk of the company breaking laws and regulations, as well as lead internal audits of procedures.
BREAKING DOWN 'Compliance Officer'. Compliance officers are expected to provide an objective view of company policies. Influence by other employees, including management and executives, to overlook infractions may result in significant fines or even business closure. Compliance officers may also design or update internal policies to mitigate the risk of the company breaking laws and regulations, as well as lead internal audits of procedures.
DEFINITION of 'Compliance Officer'. An employee whose responsibilities include ensuring that the company complies with its outside regulatory requirements and internal policies. Compliance officers may also design or update internal policies to mitigate the risk of the company breaking laws and regulations, as well as lead internal audits of procedures.
A Chief Technology Officer (CTO) is the individual within an organization who has ultimate responsibility for all technology ... See complete definition. data privacy (information privacy). Data privacy, also called information privacy, is the aspect of information technology (IT) that deals with the ability an ... 1 Policy and Procedure Management -- defining, communicating, training and attesting to corporate policies and procedures. 2  Compliance Monitoring -- evaluating and measuring the state of compliance across the organization.
A person who is employed to ensure that a company does not contravene any statutes or regulations which apply to its activities. Example sentences. 1  In turn, the committee must hire a compliance officer to report to the committee and to Microsoft's chief executive. 2  In September, the bank hired its first compliance officer to focus on money laundering full time. 1 In September, the bank hired its first compliance officer to focus on money laundering full time. 2  Commissioners also will adopt rules requiring funds to have written compliance policies and a compliance officer who reports to the fund's board of directors.
Filled under: Healthcare Compliance on September 2010. A healthcare compliance officer is involved in making sure that all policies and procedures of a healthcare system are being accurately maintained and organized, and calling for changes when they need to be made. Because a healthcare compliance officer is responsible for maintaining and inspecting policies and procedures, they need to be extremely familiar with things such as labor laws concerning health, safety, and management initiatives to ensure that all employees are protected at all time.