 Carbohydrates are nutrients in food that provide energy.  Fats are nutrients that provide a source of energy that carry vitamins to body cells.  The food guide pyramid is a triangle of colored, vertical stripes representing the five food groups, as well as fats and oils.
Autotrophs are organisms that can produce their own food from the substances available in their surroundings using light (photosynthesis) or chemical energy (chemosynthesis). Heterotrophs cannot synthesize their own food and rely on other organisms — both plants and animals — for nutrition. Heterotrophs survive by feeding on organic matter produced by or available in other organisms. There are two types of heterotrophs: 1  Photoheterotroph – These heterotrophs use light for energy but cannot use carbon dioxide as their carbon source.
Chlorophyll is the molecule that absorbs sunlight and uses its energy to synthesise carbohydrates from CO 2 and water. This process is known as photosynthesis and is the basis for sustaining the life processes of all plants. Chlorophyll is the molecule that traps this 'most elusive of all powers' - and is called a photoreceptor. It is found in the chloroplasts of green plants, and is what makes green plants, green. The basic structure of a chlorophyll molecule is a porphyrin ring, co-ordinated to a central atom.
A biomolecule is any molecule that is present in living organisms, including large macromolecules such as proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, and nucleic acids, as well as small molecules such as primary metabolites, secondary metabolites, and natural products. 
This polysaccharide is produced by most green plants as an energy store. It is the most common carbohydrate in human diets and is contained in large amounts in staple foods such as potatoes, wheat, maize (corn), rice, and cassava. Starch is the most common carbohydrate in the human diet and is contained in many staple foods. The major sources of starch intake worldwide are the cereals (rice, wheat, and maize) and the root vegetables (potatoes and cassava).
Unlike glycogen, starch molecules vary widely in the level of branching. Most plants form a mixture of starch polymers with little to no branching and polymers with extensive branching. In addition to providing energy for the plants that synthesize them, starches serve as the main food source for many animals. Polysaccharides. Polysaccharides, the “complex carbohydrates,” play vital energy storage and structural roles in living organisms, making carbohydrates the most abundant biomolecules on Earth. Polysaccharides are excellent energy storage molecules because they are easily built and broken down by enzymes.
So we can summarize by saying that the photosynthetic plants trap solar energy to form ATP and NADPH (Light Phase) and then use these as the energy source to make carbohydrates and other biomolecules from carbon dioxide and water (Dark Phase), simultaneously releasing oxygen in to the atmosphere. Photosynthesis is defined as the formation of carbohydrates in living plants from water and carbon dioxide (CO2). It is the most important chemical pathway (series of chemical reactions) on our planet.
The plants use the sugars from photosynthesis through  cellular respiration to produce ATP (energy). It is true that  plants make their own food by the process of photosynth … esis using  light energy to make sugars from carbon dioxide (C02) and water. H2O is the molecule that is the source of oxygen from  photosynthesis. It is important to note that the oxygen is a  by-product of
Carbohydrates are the most abundant biomolecule on Earth. Living organisms use carbohydrates as accessible energy to fuel cellular reactions and for structural support inside cell walls. Cells attach carbohydrate molecules to proteins and lipids, modifying structures to enhance functionality. Polysaccharides. Polysaccharides, the “complex carbohydrates,” play vital energy storage and structural roles in living organisms, making carbohydrates the most abundant biomolecules on Earth. Polysaccharides are excellent energy storage molecules because they are easily built and broken down by enzymes.
Not all organisms can produce every type of biomolecule they need by themselves. Organisms that can synthesize the biomolecules they need from nonliving matter in the environment, such as plants, algae, and some forms of bacteria, are called autotrophs. The term biomolecule refers to a broad category of molecules encompassing all substances produced by an organism's biological processes. These molecules include things such as nucleic acids, proteins, and saccharides.