1 The total amount of potassium that you get every day includes what you get from food and what you may take as a supplement. 2  Read the labels of processed foods. 3  Many foods now have added potassium. 4  Your total intake of potassium should not be greater than the recommended amounts, unless ordered by your doctor. Potassium is needed to maintain good health. Although a balanced diet usually supplies all the potassium a person needs, potassium supplements may be needed by patients who do not have enough potassium in their regular diet or have lost too much potassium because of illness or treatment with certain medicines.
Having too much potassium in the blood is called hyperkalemia; having too little is known as hypokalemia. Keeping the right potassium balance in the body depends on the amount of sodium and magnesium in the blood. Too much sodium -- common in Western diets that use a lot of salt -- may increase the need for potassium. Hypokalemia. The most important use of potassium is to treat the symptoms of hypokalemia (low potassium), which include weakness, lack of energy, muscle cramps, stomach disturbances, an irregular heartbeat, and an abnormal EKG (electrocardiogram, a test that measures heart function).
Adults should aim to get 4,700 mg of potassium a day. (Too much potassium, usually from supplements, can be dangerous, so try to get your intake from healthy eating unless a doc says otherwise.) These delicious foods can help you reach your goal. Watch the video: 5 Foods With More Potassium Than a Banana. Next: Sweet potatoes. Studies suggest boosting your potassium intake and curbing salt and sodium can slash your stroke risk by 21% and may also lower your odds of developing heart disease. Potassium, a mineral, works by protecting blood vessels from oxidative damage and keeps vessel walls from thickening.
KI (potassium iodide) is a salt of stable (not radioactive) iodine that can help block radioactive iodine from being absorbed by the thyroid gland, thus protecting this gland from radiation injury. The thyroid gland is the part of the body that is most sensitive to radioactive iodine. 
Too much sodium, too little potassium. Studies suggest boosting your potassium intake and curbing salt and sodium can slash your stroke risk by 21% and may also lower your odds of developing heart disease. Potassium, a mineral, works by protecting blood vessels from oxidative damage and keeps vessel walls from thickening.
Good sources of potassium include: potatoes, sweet potatoes, bananas, tomato sauce (without added salt or sugar), orange juice, tuna (fresh, frozen or tinned, but avoid tuna packed in brine), yoghurt and fat-free milk. Main Content: How to eat more potassium. How to eat more potassium to lower blood pressure. Fruit and vegetables are full of vitamins, minerals and fibre to keep your body in good condition. They a great source of potassium, which helps to balance out the negative effects of salt and lower your blood pressure. To reap the benefit of more potassium in your life, try to eat at least five portions of fruit and vegetables every day
15 Foods That Are High In Potassium. Eating more of these potassium-rich foods can lower your risk of high blood pressure, stroke, and heart disease. Studies suggest boosting your potassium intake and curbing salt and sodium can slash your stroke risk by 21% and may also lower your odds of developing heart disease. Potassium, a mineral, works by protecting blood vessels from oxidative damage and keeps vessel walls from thickening.
Low levels of potassium can be a result of increased urinary loss due to certain heart medications that lower sodium levels and prevent water retention. To make up for this loss of potassium, doctors often suggest eating more foods high in potassium. A number of fruits and vegetables (bananas, cantaloupe, grapefruit, oranges, tomatoes, honeydew melons, squash, potatoes, legumes) and other foods such as nuts and seeds are good sources of potassium. 
Soy products, like tofu or soy milk, are also high in potassium. Vegetables like broccoli, peas, lima beans, tomatoes, sweet potatoes and squash are good sources of potassium. And many fruits are high in potassium, like bananas, citrus fruits, cantaloupe, kiwis and apricots. 