The salary depends highly on the sector, on education, on age and on the canton (region). The following data means the median value, calculated on a weekly 40 hours basis (source: FOS). Median: The monthly median gross salary of jobholders (all education levels, all ages) amounted 2010 in Switzerland to 5,979 CHF. Only 10.7% of the jobs are paid less than 4,000 CHF. Salary for university graduates: The salary of jobholders with a university degree is much higher: Universities: 10,349 CHF, universities of applied sciences: 8,968 CHF (median, all ages). Salary in R&D: In the sector R&D, the monthly mean gross salary (median, all education levels, all ages) amounted 2010 in Switzerland to 9,633 CHF for jobs with highly difficult, skilled and independent tasks.
The 40-hour work week is relic of the past, and some employers in Sweden are looking to the future. Companies as diverse as automobile manufacturers a... How to Recover From Embarrassment at Work. Even if you're a pretty mellow person, you probably still have that cache of ugh moments stored in the back of your brain. 
The average Zurich North America salary ranges from approximately $25,000 per year for Customer Service Representative to $195,000 per year for Senior Engineering Consultant. Salary information comes from 80 data points collected directly from employees, users, and jobs on Indeed. 
Salary per industry sector: The salaries in the sectors R&D (8,498 CHF), telecommunication (8,527 CHF), public administration (8,743 CHF), pharmaceutical industry (8,941 CHF) und banking (9,357 CHF) are higher than the median salary. Salary in R&D: In the sector R&D, the monthly mean gross salary (median, all education levels, all ages) amounted 2010 in Switzerland to 9,633 CHF for jobs with highly difficult, skilled and independent tasks.
NOTE: Data for surveys are calculated from added polls on this site. High percentage of visitors have Bachelors / Master degree education. This results with higher average salary than statistics for entire population. All surveys are shown dynamically and are changing constantly with the new entries. Holds key executive positions reporting to principal shareholders. Engaged by clients to achieve set objectives. Gained vital experience building a variety of large-scale projects. In line with the duties and functions of the principal agent/lead architect, responsible for the administration of the building contract.
To See How Few Women There Are at the Top, Photoshop Out the Men. If you watched the Democratic primary debate last night, one thing probably stood out to you, regardless of your political leanings: Hillary Clinton w... The 3 Most and Least Recession-Recovered Cities. 