If you're rhesus positive (RhD positive), it means that a protein (D antigen) is found on the surface of your red blood cells. If you do not have the D antigen, you will be rhesus negative (RhD negative). Most people are rhesus positive (NHS BT 2014) . 
Rhesus (Rh) factor is an inherited protein found on the surface of red blood cells. If your blood has the protein, you're Rh positive. If your blood lacks the protein, you're Rh negative. Rh positive is the most common blood type. Having an Rh negative blood type is not an illness and usually does not affect your health. However, it can affect your pregnancy. Your pregnancy needs special care if you're Rh negative and your baby's father is Rh positive
If you are Rh-negative, your red blood cells do not have a marker called Rh factor on them. Rh-positive blood does have this marker. If your blood mixes with Rh-positive blood, your immune system will react to the Rh factor by making antibodies to destroy it. This immune system response is called Rh sensitization. Rh sensitization can occur during pregnancy if you are Rh-negative and pregnant with a developing baby (fetus) who has Rh-positive blood.
Rh is short for Rhesus factor. Rhesus factor is a type of antigen present on the surface of red blood cells. If you have have this particular antigen, you are Rh positive. If you don’t, you’re Rh negative. The Rh factor is important in determining blood type for transfusions. Normally Your immune system protects against potentially harmful substances (antigens). When foreign antigens enter your body, your immune system makes antibodies to help destroy them. During pregnancy a mother may be exposed to the Rh positive cells of her baby and develop antibodies to them. During a future pregnancy, these antibodies can destroy the red blood cells of an unborn child, leading to serious problems. If both parents are Rh-negative, they can only have Rh-negative offspring.
Best Answer: O (Rh) Postive is a common blood type. It means that you have no A, B or D antigens on your red cells and you have anti-A and anti-B antibodies naturally occurring in your plasma. Group A people have A antigens and anti-B antibodies. Group B people have B antigens and anti-A antibodies. Group AB people have A and B antigens and no anti-A or B antibodies. 'D' is the antigen that signifies that you are Rh positive. Lacking the D antigen signifies that you are Rh negative. You can receive blood from O (Rh) Positive or O (Rh) Negative donors.
Best Answer: To put it very simply, when you are Rh pos. your red blood cells carry 'D' antigens all over their surface. If you are Rh neg. your rbc's don't have them. If a negative person is exposed to these D antigens, their immune system recognizes them as foreign and so will develop antibodies against them (anti-D). 
As part of your prenatal care, you will have blood tests to find out your blood type. If your blood lacks the Rh antigen, it is called Rh-negative. If it has the antigen, it is called Rh-positive. When the mother is Rh-negative and the father is Rh-positive, the fetus can inherit the Rh factor from the father. This makes the fetus Rh-positive too. Problems can arise when the fetus’s blood has the Rh factor and the mother’s blood does not. 
Being Rh-negative means you don't have a certain protein (D antigen or the Rh factor) on the surface of your red blood cells. If you do have it, you're Rh-positive. 
If you are Rh negative and you’re exposed to Rh-positive blood your body may make antibodies to Rh-positive blood on your next exposure to it. If a mother is Rh negative and a father is Rh positive, the child will likely be Rh-positive. This can create problems with pregnancy. During pregnancy a mother may be exposed to the Rh positive cells of her baby and develop antibodies to them. During a future pregnancy, these antibodies can destroy the red blood cells of an unborn child, leading to serious problems. If both parents are Rh-negative, they can only have Rh-negative offspring.