Gestation Periods and Animal Scale. The gestation period of humans is 266 days, 8 days short of nine months. Many such biological characteristics have an explanation in terms evolutionary survival value. Even some seemingly cultural characteristics of human society have such a biological explanation. The gestation periods of other animal reveals that the length of the gestation period is largely a matter of the animal specie's size. Asian elephants have a gestation period of 645 days and African elephants 640 days. Dogs and other canines have a gestation period of about 60, which is also the period for cats.
The time during which the embryo or fetus gets fully developed in the uterus is called the gestation period or pregnancy. But in the case of gestation period for humans, the accurate time of ovulation and therefore the time of fertilization is hard to determine. Thus, the gestation period for humans in days can be calculated as 280 days. However, the actual gestation period, as compared to other mammals, is around 267 days. But then what is the average gestation period for humans? It is taken to be about 259 to 294 days.
Within similar animals, there is some variation as well: grizzly bears have an average gestation period of 225 days, but black bears have an average of 210 days, and polar bears have an average of 240 days. Larger animals, which require more time to develop before being born, often stay in the womb longer than humans. For example, the average human gestation period is 38 weeks. Gestation may normally last anywhere from 37 to 42 weeks, however, and be considered well within the healthy range. Any child born before 37 weeks is considered preterm, and this can be accompanied by any number of health risks.
Human pregnancy can be divided roughly into three trimesters, each approximately three months long. The first trimester is from the last period to the 13th week, the second trimester is from the 14th to 27th week, and the third trimester is from the 28th week to the 42nd week. Gestation is the carrying of an embryo or fetus inside female viviparous animals. It is typical for mammals, but also occurs for some non-mammals. Mammals during pregnancy can have one or more gestations at the same time (multiple gestations). The time interval of a gestation is called the gestation period. In human obstetrics, gestational age refers to the embryonic or fetal age plus two weeks. This is approximately the duration since the woman's last menstrual period (LMP) began
How Long is the Gestation Period for Humans. This interval between the last menstrual period to childbirth is roughly 40 weeks. Thus, the gestation period for humans in days can be calculated as 280 days. However, the actual gestation period, as compared to other mammals, is around 267 days. But then what is the average gestation period for humans? It is taken to be about 259 to 294 days.