Large snakes and large mammals, too heavy for the upper layers, roam this area. These include: This layer of the forest, which is under the thick forest canopy, is characterized by little light, short trees, and short plants. Animals that have adapted to this layer include: This layer of the rainforest, characterized by numerous tangled tree branches and leaves which block most of the sunlight, is by far the most populated layer. Bird and monkey species are among the most common animals found here. 1 These forests are known for their tall trees, dense vegetation, and for being humid and wet. 2  There are four layers in a tropical rainforest biome (Forest Floor, Understory Layer, Canopy Layer, and Emergent Layer) and there are animals that have adapted to living in each one (or more) of these layers.
Lianas are climbing woody vines that drape rainforest trees. They have adapted to life in the rainforest by having their roots in the ground and climbing high into the tree canopy to reach available sunlight. Many lianas start life in the rainforest canopy and send roots down to the ground.
1 To know the names of at least one one animal that you could find in each layer of the tropical rainforest. 2  To be able to give a detailed summary of the ways in which at least two animals have adapted to life in the Tropical Rainforest. 978 beetles were once found living on one sloth! The Harpy Eagle (emergent trees). 1  To know the names of at least one one animal that you could find in each layer of the tropical rainforest. 2  To be able to give a detailed summary of the ways in which at least two animals have adapted to life in the Tropical Rainforest.
Plants adapt to the rainforest in three main ways. 1. They adapt to get the most sunlight possible, because the forest floor can be somewhat dark under the canopy. They do this by either growing very quickly (most rainforest trees), or by growing in the branches of larger plants (IE, orchids, vines, etc). 2. They have to adapt to the massive amount of rain. So many plants and animals are adapted to the rain forest we dont know how many because we didnt found all of the new plants and animal species in the world but for now there … are billions of plants and animal species adapted to rainforest. -The trees have drip tips to shed heavy rainfall
Plant adaptation Plant survival in a tropical rainforest depends on the plant's ability to tolerate constant shade or to adapt strategies to reach sunlight. Fungus is a good example of a plant that flourishes in warm, dark places created by the forest canopy and understory. 
Plants and Animals Adaptations to the Tropical Rainforest. The plants need sunlight for photosynthesis (the way they make their own food). This is because the plant traps the sun's energy in the chlorophyll, in the leaves. This is then used to turn carbon dioxide and water into glucose. 
Asking how do animals change to adapt to the temperate rain forest environments is a question that can lead to a better understanding of the environment. It is possible to find large numbers of species of insects, mammals, reptiles and birds living in rain forests. 
Adaptations by animals in the grassland are quite different from rainforest animal adaptations. Grassland animals have adapted to dry and windy climate conditions. Grazing animals that eat grass and burrowing animals are more common in grasslands while animals dwelling on trees are more common in rainforests. As the soil in the rainforests contains a low amount of nutrients, insects and animals learn the technique of flying or climbing high trees. 'Venus flytrap' is a plant that catches and digests animal prey. Thus, plants also have adapted to the environment.