Definitions: 1. A fairly stable union of carbon monoxide with hemoglobin. The formation of carboxyhemoglobin prevents the normal transfer of carbon dioxide and oxygen during the circulation of blood; thus, increasing levels of carboxyhemoglobin result in various degrees of asphyxiation, including death.
Carboxyhemoglobin: Hemoglobin that has carbon monoxide instead of the normal oxygen bound to it. Carbon monoxide has a much stronger binding to hemoglobin than oxygen. Carboxyhemoglobin is formed in carbon monoxide poisoning and leads to oxygen deficiency in the body. The source of the carbon monoxide may be exhaust (such as from a car, truck, boat, or generator), smoke from a fire, or tobacco smoke. The level of carboxyhemoglobin is a measure of the degree of carbon monoxide exposure.
noun. The compound that is formed when inhaled carbon monoxide combines with hemoglobin, binding more tightly than oxygen and rendering the hemoglobin incapable of transporting oxygen. Noun.
Carboxyhemoglobin. Hemoglobin in which the iron is bound to carbon monoxide(CO) instead of oxygen. Try searching Carboxyhemoglobin across the entire website. A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W | X | Y | Z |. View Laboratory Acronyms...
Carboxyhemoglobin (British English: Carboxyhaemoglobin) (COHb) is a stable complex of carbon monoxide and hemoglobin that forms in red blood cells upon contact with carbon monoxide (CO). Large quantities of CO hinders the ability of Hb to deliver oxygen to the body. COHb has a half-life in the blood of 4 to 6 hours. This time can be reduced to 70 to 35 minutes with administration of pure oxygen (the lower number applying when oxygen is administered with 4 to 5% CO2 to cause hyperventilation).
A fairly stable union of carbon monoxide with hemoglobin. The formation of carboxyhemoglobin prevents the normal transfer of carbon dioxide and oxygen during the circulation of blood; thus, increasing levels of carboxyhemoglobin result in various degrees of asphyxiation, including death. Synonym(s): carbon monoxide hemoglobin, carboxyhaemoglobin.
carboxyhemoglobin. hemoglobin combined with carbon monoxide, which occupies the sites on the hemoglobin molecule that normally bind with oxygen and which is not readily displaced from the molecule; exposure to carbon monoxide thus results in cellular anoxia. See also hemoglobin. 1  Facebook. The formation of carboxyhemoglobin prevents the normal transfer of carbon dioxide and oxygen during the circulation of blood; thus, increasing levels of carboxyhemoglobin result in various degrees of asphyxiation, including death. Synonym(s): carbon monoxide hemoglobin, carboxyhaemoglobin.
Medical Definition of CARBOXYHEMOGLOBIN. : a very stable combination of hemoglobin and carbon monoxide formed in the blood when carbon monoxide is inhaled with resulting loss of ability of the blood to combine with oxygen. Tweet. : a very stable combination of hemoglobin and carbon monoxide formed in the blood when carbon monoxide is inhaled with resulting loss of ability of the blood to combine with oxygen.
carboxyhemoglobin. hemoglobin in which the sites usually bound to oxygen are bound to carbon monoxide molecules; carbon monoxide has an affinity for hemoglobin over 200 times that of oxygen. See carbon monoxide poisoning. The formation of carboxyhemoglobin prevents the normal transfer of carbon dioxide and oxygen during the circulation of blood; thus, increasing levels of carboxyhemoglobin result in various degrees of asphyxiation, including death. Synonym(s): carbon monoxide hemoglobin, carboxyhaemoglobin.