A constitutional monarchy, limited monarchy or parliamentary monarchy (also called a crowned republic) is a form of government in which governing powers of the monarch are restricted by a constitution. The United Kingdom and fifteen of its former colonies are constitutional monarchies with a Westminster system of government. Three states – Malaysia, Cambodia and the Holy See – employ true elective monarchies, where the ruler is periodically selected by a small, aristocratic electoral college.
1 In a constitutional monarchy, the monarch is subject to a constitution. 2  The monarch serves as a ceremonial figurehead symbol of national unity and state continuity. 3  The monarch is nominally sovereign but the electorate, through their legislature, exercise (usually limited) political sovereignty. 
In England, the Glorious Revolution of 1688 led to a constitutional monarchy restricted by laws such as the Bill of Rights 1689 and the Act of Settlement 1701, although limits on the power of the monarch ('a limited monarchy') are much older than that (see Magna Carta). The United Kingdom and fifteen of its former colonies are constitutional monarchies with a Westminster system of government. Three states – Malaysia, Cambodia and the Holy See – employ true elective monarchies, where the ruler is periodically selected by a small, aristocratic electoral college.
A constitutional monarchy is a form of constitutional government, where either an elected or hereditary monarch is the head of state, unlike in an absolute monarchy, wherein t … he king or the queen is the sole source of political power, as he or she is not legally bound by the constitution. A Constitutional Monarchy is where the monarch is the head of state and a representative of their country, but has virtually no power in running the country, or only has power in the event of an emergency.
Constitutional monarchy is a form of democratic government where in  monarchs play the role of a non-party political head of state  within a constitution. Australia, Japan, … Canada, Cambodia and Spain  are countries with constitutional monarchy. Canada is a federation that is governed as Parliamentary democracy and a constitutional monarchy with Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II, the Queen of Canada, as head of State.
A constitutional monarchy is a form of government which the monarch  acts as the head of state, not the prime minister/president. The  prime minister is the head of governme … nt. Great example is the  United Kingdom Queen Elizabeth II. As well having Parliamentary  systems. A Constitutional Monarchy is where the monarch is the head of state and a representative of their country, but has virtually no power in running the country, or only has power in the event of an emergency.
A constitutional monarchy is a form of government in which a monarch acts as head of state within the parameters of a written (i.e., codified), unwritten (i.e., uncodified) or blended constitution. Today constitutional monarchy is almost always combined with representative democracy, and represents (as a theory of civics) a compromise between total trust in the political class, and in well-bred and well-trained monarchs raised for the role from birth.
From Conservapedia. A constitutional monarchy is a government with a constitution which acknowledges a monarch as head of state with varying degrees of influence in the running of the country. Constitutional monarchy is generally held by conservative philosophers (e.g. Plato, Hobbes, Locke) to be the ideal form of government. Countries with constitutional monarchies include the United Kingdom, Canada, New Zealand, Australia, Papua New Guinea, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Belgium, the Netherlands and Spain.
Best Answer: A well organised constitutional monarchy is essentially the best way to ensure an effective system of checks and balance between the various organs of government. In a US style presidency the head of state is head of government, and holds far more power than either the PM or Monarch does in a constitutional monarchy. Since the government in the UK, for example, is Her/His Majesty's Government, the PM cannot simply veto it's decisions as the president can in the US