[ syll. a-jah, aj-ah ] The baby girl name Ajah is pronounced as AA JHaa- †. Ajah's language of origin is Sanskrit. Ajah is a form of the English and Indian Aja. Ajah is not often used as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names. 
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Ajah and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Ajah and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Ajah are: 1  Indian meaning: Goat. 2  Sanskrit meaning: The unborn; love of Vishnu.
The following names are baby names related to Ajah and are suitable names for brothers and sisters of Ajah: Boys-Durjaya, Girls-Devaki, Reva, Both genders-Akira, Ali, Alpha, Bailey, Brett, Brogan. Variants. The name Ajah is a variant of Aja. As a baby girl name, Ajah is currently not a popular baby name in the USA. There are no available USA popularity statistics for the name Ajah for the past 100 years. However, the following chart shows the popularity ranking for the name Aja, of which the name Ajah is a variant
Aja /aja/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Hindi origin, and the meaning of Aja is goat. Also possibly used as a phonetic variant of Asia. The name was popular in the 1980s probably due to the Steely Dan album named Aja. Aja is a very prominent first name for women (#2043 out of 4276, Top 48%) and also a very prominent surname for both adults and children (#44895 out of 150436, Top 30%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Aja for girls.
The different meanings of the name Ajah are: The meaning of the name “Ajah” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Ajah are: 1  Indian meaning: Goat. 2  Sanskrit meaning: The unborn; love of Vishnu.
This doesn't mean that the name Ajah is not popular in other countries all over the world. The name might be popular in other countries, in different languages, or even in a different alphabet, as we use the characters from the Latin alphabet to display the data. A derivative of the name might also be popular in US. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Ajah are: 1  Indian meaning: Goat. 2  Sanskrit meaning: The unborn; love of Vishnu.
The name Ajah has the following meaning: A Hindu name meaning Goat. Also refers to the high priestess of Mecca (African), or follower of Maya (Sanskrit). Often used as an alternate way of spelling the name Asia. It is a female name, suitable for baby girls. As a baby girl name, Ajah is currently not a popular baby name in the USA. There are no available USA popularity statistics for the name Ajah for the past 100 years. However, the following chart shows the popularity ranking for the name Aja, of which the name Ajah is a variant
Ajah is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced A-jah. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 4633 in baby name popularity for girls with 30 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws.