Squid ink is most popular in Italy and Spain, and it's unique appearance and origin make it a gourmet delicacy in many other countries. Some people who work up the nerve to try it can't get enough of it. Most people refer to the taste as merely salty, it's not a strong or fishy flavor. In the sea cephalopods like squid, cuttlefish and octopus use the ink for protection. They release the ink as a predator attacks, and can release it in different ways depending on the situation.
Cephalopod ink is a dark pigment released into water by most species of cephalopod, usually as an escape mechanism. All cephalopods, with the exception of the Nautilidae and the Cirrina (deep-sea octopuses), are able to release ink. The ink is released from the ink sacs (located between the gills) and is dispersed more widely by accompanying its release with a jet of water from the siphon.
Each species of cephalopod produces slightly differently coloured inks; generally, octopuses produce black ink, squid ink is blue-black and cuttlefish ink is brown. A number of other aquatic molluscs have similar responses to attack, including the gastropod clade known as sea hares. The ink is released from the ink sacs (located between the gills) and is dispersed more widely by accompanying its release with a jet of water from the siphon.
Print. A deep black substance extracted from the ink sack of an ocean squid, a sea dweller that is also known as Calamari. The Cuddlefish, which also has ink sacks, is another species living in the ocean that is similar and related to the Squid. Both species use the ink as a means to escape predators, emitting this dark cloudy substance as danger approaches in hopes of intimidating the oncoming danger.
Common in Italian and Spanish cuisine, squid ink is also now being used more frequently in Southeast Asian cooking. Squid ink can be added as a sauce to dishes, such as risottos, where it adds an inky black sheen to foods and a deep flavor. Other preparations include adding the ink into the starch, such as with squid ink pasta, making for a dark black pasta that shows off the bright colors of vegetables very well. You can harvest this ink on your own, and it is also readily available in specialty grocery stores and seafood markets. You can add squid ink to foods to create a rich flavor and deep, black color. It's rich in iron and antioxidants and provides a number of potential health benefits.
Squid ink can be extracted from fresh squid or it is packaged and available in some Italian food stores. To color pasta or rice, add the ink to the water as the food cooks. The Cuddlefish, which also has ink sacks, is another species living in the ocean that is similar and related to the Squid. Both species use the ink as a means to escape predators, emitting this dark cloudy substance as danger approaches in hopes of intimidating the oncoming danger.
Email. Print. Any type of pasta that has been enhanced with the chemical substance extracted from the ocean squid so it becomes very black in color. Squid ink, which is also available from the Cuddlefish (related to the Squid family), is added to the water and dough as pasta is made, creating very black colored pasta. This ink provides a salty and somewhat sweet flavor as an ingredient and coloring to the pasta. 
Squid ink pasta can refer to either pasta with a black squid ink sauce, or black pasta manufactured with squid ink as one of the ingerdients. In the sea cephalopods like squid, cuttlefish and octopus use the ink for protection. They release the ink as a predator attacks, and can release it in different ways depending on the situation.
The ink from Squid or Cuddlefish is used as a food coloring and flavoring, providing a very dark black color and a salty tasting flavor to foods such as pasta or rice. It is also served as a condiment, first being dried in an oven, crumbled into tiny particles, seasoned with salt and then used on a variety of foods. The Cuddlefish, which also has ink sacks, is another species living in the ocean that is similar and related to the Squid. Both species use the ink as a means to escape predators, emitting this dark cloudy substance as danger approaches in hopes of intimidating the oncoming danger.
Squid Ink. Squid Ink: Squid Ink refers to the dark cloudy liquid that cephalopods release as a defense when being chased. It is known by many names (squid ink, cuttlefish ink, tinta calamar, nero di seppia, black squid ink, cephalopod ink, octopus ink) and they all refer to the inky black substance. In the sea cephalopods like squid, cuttlefish and octopus use the ink for protection. They release the ink as a predator attacks, and can release it in different ways depending on the situation.