Yes, the film 'Braveheart' tells a true story of events in the history of England and Scotland. It's set during the time of the rule of English King Edward I [June 17, 1239-Ju … ly 7, 1307].
Certainly, serious historical study of Wallace is hard to find. In the last fifty years, the Scottish Historical Review has devoted a mere nine pages to William Wallace, regardless of his status as Scotland's most remarkable international icon since his victory at Stirling Bridge seven hundred years ago.
Mel Gibson is only the unwitting surrogate for these charges of fiction and inaccuracy, for the film Braveheart is largely based on the work of Blind Harry, who wrote his powerful epic poem on the life of Wallace in the 1470s, about one hundred and seventy years after the patriot's death.
Mel Gibson's Braveheart won five Oscars and made William Wallace, a 13th-century Scottish warrior, an unforgettable Hollywood character. But how historically accurate is the film?
I am an arborist. Graduate study, travel, work make me an expert in benthics, European languages, wildlife mapping, world fauna and flora. Yes, the film 'Braveheart' tells a true story of events in the history of England and Scotland. It's set during the time of the rule of English King Edward I [June 17, 1239-July 7, 1307].
The majority of the evens of the movie did happen, and there was a William Wallace. However the ways in which many of the events were depicted are not historically accurate. For example the first real battle on that open field. Did not actually take place on a field.
So they love to label movies based on a true story or inspired by a true story, even when it's not really true. None of the events depicted in the films listed above -- The Strangers, Hostel, Wolf Creek, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre -- ever happened in real life.
The true story of Braveheart. 700 years after Stirling Bridge, Elspeth King considers that Mel Gibson's Oscar-winner has been a valuable catalyst in promoting interest in Scotland's supreme patriot.