The new derivatives Ayush anbd Ayushi are not a very popular name and is mostly found among the Hindus and Jains in west,northwest and the northern parts of India. 
അയുശീ; অযুশী; అయుశీ; ਅਯੁਸ਼ੀ; અયુશી; அயுஷீ; ಅಯುಶೀ. Name Ayushi generally means Long lived, is of Indian origin, Name Ayushi is a Feminine (or Girl) name. Person with name Ayushi are mainly Hindu by religion. Name Ayushi belongs to rashi Mesh (Aries) with dominant planet Mars (Mangal) and Nakshatra (stars) Krithika. Find qualities of Aries (Mesh) or Find Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Ayushi or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday or Find compatibility of Mesh (Aries) with other zodiac signs.
Meaning of Indian name: Ayushi. Meaning of the name Ayushi is 'Long life'. Ayushi is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for females. The name number for Ayushi is '2'. Click here to get the numerological analysis for the name 'Ayushi'.
Ayushi is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Ay-u-shi. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 8489 in baby name popularity for girls with 13 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Ayushi Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Ayushi has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Ayushi to other names. Ayushi falls into the celestial name category.
List of Hindu baby names, Hindu baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Hindu names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Hindu baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Ayushi in Hindu origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame detail
The Hidden Passion Number represents your hidden talent. It shapes your personality, and guides your life. There are also the Karmic Lessons Numbers, associated with your full name (first name, middle name and last name) as it spelled in your birth certificate. To see these numbers, please, enter your FULL NAME. You are not a builder but a planner, and you want others to carry out your plans.You are bold, independent, inquisitive and interested in research. You know what you want and why you want it. You are always looking for an opportunity to achieve financial and emotional security. You are basically peacemaker.
Meaning of Name Preksha. Name Preksha grabbed my attention! While reviewing for rare names, I found baby girl name Preksha प्रेक्षा and when I tried to explore it, I was amazed with all the wonderful and deep meaning of name Preksha. Continue Reading ...
Ayushi-Meaning of Ayushi. Tweet. [ 3 syll. a-yus-hi, ay-u- shi ] The baby girl name Ayushi is pronounced as AA-Yah-SH-iy- †. Ayushi's origin is Sanskrit. Ayushi is a variant form of the name Ayushmati. Ayushi is not commonly used as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names