Mustard Greens. If you need more Vitamin E in your diet, try eating more mustard greens. One cup of chopped greens contains 1.13mg of essential Vitamin E, along with many other nutrients. In fact, mustard greens are a great food to enjoy more of, regardless of what sort of nutrients your diet may be lacking. 
Vitamin E Foods. Many nuts and oils are high in vitamin E. Good sources are almonds, hazelnuts, peanuts, sunflower seeds, sunflower oil, safflower oil, corn oil, olive oil and peanut butter. Wheat germ oil is very high in vitamin E. One tablespoon has 100 percent of your daily requirement. Fruits and vegetables with vitamin E include spinach, broccoli, kiwi, mango and tomatoes, but they aren’t as high in vitamin C as nuts and oils.
Food. Numerous foods provide vitamin E. Nuts, seeds, and vegetable oils are among the best sources of alpha-tocopherol, and significant amounts are available in green leafy vegetables and fortified cereals (see Table 2 for a more detailed list) [ 7 ]. Supplements of vitamin E typically provide only alpha-tocopherol, although mixed products containing other tocopherols and even tocotrienols are available. Naturally occurring alpha-tocopherol exists in one stereoisomeric form.
In general, foods containing vitamin e are green leafy vegetables, nuts, various vegetable oils, and fortified breakfast cereals. There are in fact many foods containing vitamin e, but there are some foods higher in vitamin e and these are listed below. Note that the effectiveness of vitamin e for health and skin care can be reduced when foods with vitamin e are cooked, processed, improperly stored, or stored for long periods of time. When possible, raw, fresh, or minimally processed foods containing vitamin e are the preferred options.
Almonds. Almonds are one the best vitamin E foods. Just an ounce of almonds offers a whopping 7.4 milligrams of vitamin E. You can also get your vitamin E needs in the form of almond milk and almond oils. We would recommend eating raw almonds, if possible. Swiss chard is easily one of the healthiest vegetables you can eat on a daily basis. Commonly known to be high in vitamin K, vitamin A and vitamin C, Swiss chard is another food high in vitamin E. Just one cup of boiled swiss chard greens will provide you with almost 17% of your daily recommended values.
At present, the vitamin E content of foods and dietary supplements is listed on labels in international units (IUs), a measure of biological activity rather than quantity. Naturally sourced vitamin E is called d-alpha-tocopherol; the synthetically produced form is dl-alpha-tocopherol. Supplements of vitamin E typically provide only alpha-tocopherol, although mixed products containing other tocopherols and even tocotrienols are available. Naturally occurring alpha-tocopherol exists in one stereoisomeric form.
**this amount includes sources of vitamin E from fortified food and supplements. Vitamin E is found mainly in foods that contain fat like margarine, vegetable oil, wheat germ, nuts, nut butters, and seeds. The following table shows you foods which are sources of vitamin E. 
Raw Seeds. Select raw seeds, such as sunflower, pumpkin and sesame, are another common food with vitamin E. In fact, eating just ¼ of a cup of sunflower seeds gives you 90.5% of your recommended daily value, making them one of the best vitamin E foods you can eat daily. Swiss chard is easily one of the healthiest vegetables you can eat on a daily basis. Commonly known to be high in vitamin K, vitamin A and vitamin C, Swiss chard is another food high in vitamin E. Just one cup of boiled swiss chard greens will provide you with almost 17% of your daily recommended values.
Foods Containing Vitamin E. The foods containing vitamin e are not difficult to find. In fact there are many common and easily available foods high in vitamin e. Vitamin e is an important element in health. It is also an important player in the world of skin care. Note that the effectiveness of vitamin e for health and skin care can be reduced when foods with vitamin e are cooked, processed, improperly stored, or stored for long periods of time. When possible, raw, fresh, or minimally processed foods containing vitamin e are the preferred options.
Oils and margarines from corn, cottonseed, soybean, safflower, and wheat germ are all good sources of vitamin E. Nuts are also good sources of vitamin E. Fruits, vegetables, and whole grains contain less. Refining grains reduces their vitamin E content, as does commercial processing and storage of food. 