Nisperos. An exotic fruit, also known as loquat, which originates from China. Nisperos are a yellowy orange pear-shaped fruit with large, hard seeds and can be up to 8cm in length. They have a sweet flavour which is like a mixture of apricots, apples and plums. Waitrose sell nisperos in packs of 6. Uses: Nisperos can be eaten raw.
After MO confirmed the spelling for Misperos which Nadia had used in reference to this yellow fruit known in the English language as naseberry or sapodilla, I became curious and next time I went to the market I asked a few people selling it. It is also said that if you eat them in large quantity they have a sedative affect. Re Nispero and Minspeo. I have noted that in Latin America, especially Central America the “m” and “n” sounds are so similar that people use them interchangeably.
The loquat tree produces the loquat leaf and the loquat fruit, both known by their Latin name Eriobotrya japonica. It comes from the rose family and is sometimes called the Japanese plum leaf. The loquat tree is a moderately-sized tree, growing up to thirty feet. One of loquat leaf’s oldest reported benefits is the reduction of skin redness. When loquat leaf is used in topical cream, it can combat edema and histamine-induced skin contraction. In short, loquat may help soothe the skin and provide balance for skin health.
This fruit, known as loquat in English or nispero in Spanish, has soft orange flesh and usually three to five almond-sized seeds. It is native to Asia, but grows in Mexico and the Southern United States as well as Central and South America. Photo Credit: &copy 2006 Suzanne Barbezat, licensed to About. Gallery. 
The loquat has a high sugar, acid, and pectin content. It is eaten as a fresh fruit and mixes well with other fruits in fresh fruit salads or fruit cups. The fruits are also commonly used to make jam, jelly, and chutney, and are often served poached in light syrup. Fruit structure. Loquats are unusual among fruit trees in that the flowers appear in the autumn or early winter, and the fruits are ripe in late winter or early spring. The flowers are 2 cm (1 in) in diameter, white, with five petals, and produced in stiff panicles of three to ten flowers
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: In English, the nispero is called a loquat and its a tree found commonly in China. They are sweetest when soft and orange and grow on a tree. The loquat is similar to the apple as it has a high sugar, acid and pectin content. It is eaten as a fresh fruit and goes well with other fruits in fruit salads or fruit cups. Firm, slightly immature fruits are best for making pies or tarts. The fruits are also commonly used to make jam, jelly, and chutney, and are often served poached in light syrup
There are many varieties of loquat, each with a slightly different appearance. Generally, the loquat is pear-shaped, with smooth dark orange to orange-yellow skin. It has soft, creamy yellow flesh with a sweet and sour taste and 2-4 large seeds in the center. The two most common varieties in Spain are the Argelino (Algar) and the Tanaka.