Bullous Pemphigoid. In cases of bullous pemphigoid, the skin blistering occurs most commonly on the arms and legs where movement occurs, that is, around the joints and on the lower abdomen. The most common symptom of pemphigoid is blistering that occurs on the arms, legs, abdomen, and mucous membranes. Hives and itching are also common. The blisters have certain characteristics, regardless of where on the body they form: 1  they are often preceded by a red rash.
– by admin 0. Bullous pemphigoid is a rare skin condition characterized by the appearance of blisters of different sizes on the skin. The cause of the manifestation of these blisters is not clear, but theory states that the illness has something to do with the abnormal immune system of the person affected
Causes : Exact cause of bullous pemphigoid is unknown. It is believed to be caused due to weakened immunity in old-age people. The antibodies released by the body are stored in the basement membrane forming thin layer which would eventually get swollen producing blisters or large lesions.
Bullous pemphigoid is an autoimmune disease that causes blistering of the skin. Bullous pemphigoid occurs when the immune system attacks the skin and causes blistering. People develop large, itchy blisters with areas of inflamed skin. 
Bullous pemphigoid is an acute or chronic autoimmune skin disease, involving the formation of blisters, more appropriately known as bullae, at the space between the skin layers epidermis and dermis. It is classified as a type II hypersensitivity reaction, with the formation of anti-hemidesmosome antibodies. 
Bullous pemphigoid is a skin disorder marked by blisters on various parts of the body like upper thighs, lower abdomen and armpits. It develops largely on old-age people and it attacks them when the immune system is weakened for any reason. Exact cause of bullous pemphigoid is unknown. It is believed to be caused due to weakened immunity in old-age people. The antibodies released by the body are stored in the basement membrane forming thin layer which would eventually get swollen producing blisters or large lesions.
Bullous pemphigoid is an uncommon skin disease characterized by tense blisters on the surface of the skin. Occasionally, the inner lining tissue of the mouth, nasal passages, or conjunctivae of the eyes (mucous membrane tissue) can be involved. Bullous Pemphigoid Definition. A disease characterized by tense blisters on the skin. The condition is caused by antibodies that accumulate abnormally in a layer of the skin called the basement membrane.
Symptoms of bullous pemphigoid include intense itching and burning sensation of the skin. When the mucous membranes of the mouth are affected, it can cause pain, burning, peeling away of affected inner lining tissues, and sensitivity to acidic foods. Bullous Pemphigoid Definition. A disease characterized by tense blisters on the skin. The condition is caused by antibodies that accumulate abnormally in a layer of the skin called the basement membrane.