trait. A characteristic or condition that is determined by one's genes. The color of an animal's coat and the shape of a plant's leaves are physical traits. Nesting in birds and burrowing in rodents are examples of behavioral traits. - A stroke of a pen or pencil.
family traits are the ways in wich family members are alike. You may have your hair color as your mother or your eye color as your father. That mean that your hair and eye color ara family traits. You will pass your family traits to your own childrens.. That mean that they will be pass for generations. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. This page was last modified on 4 June 2006, at 18:28.This page has been accessed 44,484 times.
Heredity is the passing of phenotypic traits from parents to their offspring, either through asexual reproduction or sexual reproduction. This is the process by which an offspring cell or organism acquires or becomes predisposed to the characteristics of its parent cell or organism. In humans, eye color is an example of an inherited characteristic: an individual might inherit the brown-eye trait from one of the parents. Inherited traits are controlled by genes and the complete set of genes within an organism's genome is called its genotype
Here are two pedigrees showing the same three generations of a family. A specific trait is shown as a solid black circle or square. The pedigree on the left is an example of a dominant trait in this family. The pedigree on the right depicts a recessive trait. In this genetics and genomics science project, you will create pedigrees for four human physical traits to determine which phenotypes are dominant and which are recessive. 
A trait shared by members of a family. A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z. 
Definition of TRAIT for Kids. : a quality that makes one person, animal, or thing different from another.
trait. noun \ˈtrāt\. : a quality that makes one person, animal, or thing different from another. noun \ˈtrāt, British usually ˈtrā\. : an inherited characteristic
Report Abuse. Something that a family has in common, like a trait. The term family tendency is most often used in drug addiction or negative things but its usage can be more liberal than that. Unfortunately, my family's tendency is toward fat thighs, but I guess that's better than alcoholism. 
A trait is a specific characteristic of an organism. Traits can be determined by genes or the environment, or more commonly by interactions between them. The genetic contribution to a trait is called the genotype. The outward expression of the genotype is called the phenotype.