Lactose intolerance is the inability to digest lactose, the sugar primarily found in milk and dairy products. It is caused by a shortage of lactase in the body, an enzyme produced by the small intestine that is needed to digest lactose. While lactose intolerance is not dangerous, its symptoms can be distressing. Symptoms of lactose intolerance occur when there is not enough lactase being produced by the body to digest the lactose consumed. Symptoms of lactose intolerance include nausea, cramps, gas, bloating, or diarrhea within 30 minutes to 2 hours after consuming milk or dairy products.
Lactase is a protein that acts as an enzyme. Enzymes are chemicals that help speed up specific biological processes. Lactase is usually produced by cells in your body, but some people who suffer from lactase deficiency may need to take pills or capsules that contain the enzyme.
Lactase is an enzyme produced by many organisms. It is located in the brush border of the small intestine of humans and other mammals. Lactase is essential to the complete digestion of whole milk; it breaks down lactose, a sugar which gives milk its sweetness. The optimum temperature for human lactase is about 37°C for its activity and has an optimum pH of 6. In metabolism, the β -glycosidic bond in D-lactose is hydrolyzed to form D-galactose and D-glucose, which can be absorbed through the intestinal walls and into the bloodstream.
The LCT gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called lactase. This enzyme helps to digest lactose, a sugar found in milk and other dairy products. Lactase is produced by cells that line the walls of the small intestine. 
Lactose is a type of sugar found in milk products. Lactase enzyme is normally produced by the body to help break down (digest) lactose. Lactose intolerance occurs when the body produces low amounts of lactase enzyme. Lactose intolerance can begin at different ages. Infants are not usually affected, but lactose intolerance can affect children as young as 2. It is very common in adults. One way to treat lactose intolerance is to avoid milk products.
Lactase is an enzyme produced by the human body that is responsible for breaking down lactose -- a sugar found in milk. When the body is very young, it produces elevated levels of the enzyme to help break down a steady diet of milk. As it grows older, the body gradually decreases the amount of lactase it produces. 
Lactase is a digestive enzyme that is produced by the small intestine. The prime function of lactase is to digest a sugar compound called lactose. Yap, lactase is an enzym … e that breaks down the disaccharide lactose yielding an end-product of glucose and galactose. 
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. Lactase is an enzyme that breaks down lactose, the main sugar in milk. It's produced in different ways by many different types of organisms, but in humans, it's made by the cells lining the small intestines. Most people are born producing it, but often make less of it as they age, which causes lactose intolerance. 
Lactase. Lactase is primarily a digestive enzyme that is produced by specialized cells that line the lumen of the small intestine, Genetics Home Reference explains. These cells absorb nutrients within your digestive tract. Enzymes are chemicals that help speed up specific biological processes. Lactase is usually produced by cells in your body, but some people who suffer from lactase deficiency may need to take pills or capsules that contain the enzyme.