The Kurt Salmon RFID in Retail Study found that approximately one-third of respondents consider themselves full adopters of RFID. Use cases and benefits have largely targeted inventory management–driven ROIs through improved demand planning and replenishment execution. The Kurt Salmon RFID in Retail Study found “backroom to front-of-store inventory accuracy and replenishment” was the most commonly cited use case for RFID tagging in the basics, apparel and footwear categories.
Sixty percent reported participating in such projects with one or two retailers. Among retailers that have implemented radio frequency identification, 77 percent reported plans to scale their item-level RFID program to include additional categories or products than what was already being tagged and tracked. About 40 percent of suppliers reported the same goal. The survey, conducted by Accenture on behalf of the VICS Item Level RFID Initiative, finds that if tag prices continue to drop and adoption momentum remains steady, most retailers will be using RFID technology within five years. By Claire Swedberg.
But it was a solution looking for a problem. Today, RFID has landed a high-demand job: Helping retailers become more competitive with online sellers, through “omnichannel” sales — closing a sale on the buyer’s terms, whether in the store, on the Web, using social media, or through some combination of those channels. By 2007, after various delays and slow starts — and with many suppliers balking at the high costs and meager benefits of their investments in the technology — Walmart changed its RFID strategy.
ITEM LEVEL TRACKING. The ultimate goal in retail is to create RFID systems that provide the benefits of the technology at a cost that supports item-level tracking. Such item-level tracking would provide each unit of inventory with a unique ID. When this occurs, the inventory accuracy and improved goods tracking will rise exponentially. 
The elusive ROI: In 2006, Wal-Mart announced that RFID pilots resulted in a 16% reduction in the number of times products went out of stock. Its findings show that the use of RFID improved the efficiency of moving products from the backroom to the store shelves by 60%. The current state: Over the past three years, the number of Wal-Mart stores using RFID has increased tenfold, from 100 stores in 2004 to 1,000 stores in 2007. For retailers overall, though, the pursuit of RFID has slowed.
There have been several proposals for smart shelves that can use RFID technology to automatically track products on the shelves of retail stores. Some concepts are treated in PCT publication WO 00/65532, Storage System, published Nov. 2, 2000, by Kevin Ashton, former Director of the Auto-ID Center. Custom smart shelves including multiple RFID readers have also been installed and trialed in several retail stores in the US and Europe, including the Metro Group Future Store in Rheinberg, Germany (Metro AG, Duesseldorf, Düsseldorf) germany described in a series of animations and other files at://http.www-future.store/ . org
At a retail supply chain trade group meeting, she revealed that the retailer would require its suppliers to apply radio frequency identification, or RFID, tags to pallets and cases of goods sent to its distribution centers. By 2007, after various delays and slow starts — and with many suppliers balking at the high costs and meager benefits of their investments in the technology — Walmart changed its RFID strategy.
Architecture Development. Summary: This white paper provides a general introduction to Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) technology, and discusses the benefits and challenges of this technology for organizations that are involved in the production, movement, or sale of retail goods. The Origins of RFID. The first disturbing fact is that RFID is not a new technology. It was first used over sixty years ago by Britain to identify aircraft in World War II and was part of the refinement of radar. It was during the 1960s that RFID was first considered as a solution for the commercial world.
“You can count [inventory] once or twice a year with bar codes with limited accuracy, because the person can be distracted, or scan the same code twice,” Connell explained. “We can count up to 24 times a year using RFID. It just enables us to keep inventory accuracy in the high 90s [in terms of percentage].”. Based on early pilot success, Macy’s began installing RFID infrastructure in all its 850 stores. By 2007, after various delays and slow starts — and with many suppliers balking at the high costs and meager benefits of their investments in the technology — Walmart changed its RFID strategy.