A gyre in oceanography is any large system of rotating ocean currents, particularly those involved with large wind movements. Gyres are caused by the Coriolis effect; planetary vorticity along with horizontal and vertical friction, which determine the circulation patterns from the wind curl (torque). The boundary current of the North Atlantic Gyre is the Gulf Stream, of the North Pacific Gyre the Kuroshio Current, of the South Atlantic Gyre the Brazil Current, of the South Pacific Gyre the East Australian Current, and of the Indian Ocean Gyre the Agulhas Current.
A gyre is a spiral or vortex of wind. It is the circular movement of currents in the ocean basin. Its movement is in the anti-clockwise direction in the southern hemisphere and clockwise direction in the northern hemisphere. Gyre is an important term in oceanography. Gyres can be caused by a number of reasons; one of them is the Coriolis force. The coriolis effect is caused because of the rotation of the earth. This effect causes a number of cyclones on the earth’s surface.
The term gyre can be used to refer to any type of vortex in the air or the sea, even one that is man-made, but it is most commonly used in oceanography to refer to the major ocean systems. The boundary current of the North Atlantic Gyre is the Gulf Stream, of the North Pacific Gyre the Kuroshio Current, of the South Atlantic Gyre the Brazil Current, of the South Pacific Gyre the East Australian Current, and of the Indian Ocean Gyre the Agulhas Current.
The major gyres of the ocean include: North Atlantic, South Atlantic, North Pacific, South Pacific and Indian Ocean gyres. A simplistic drawing of those can be seen on this page. Many other smaller gyres exist in the ocean too. One such smaller gyre is the Beaufort gyre found in the Arctic Ocean. The Beaufort gyre is a huge vortex of water being driven by strong winds that force currents in a clockwise direction. This gyre is full of relatively fresh water as Siberian and Canadian rivers drain into the Beaufort gyr
Subtropical gyres are another type; their centers are high pressure zones because of the movement of the westerly winds in the northern side and easterly winds in the southern side. Another type of gyre is the subpolar gyre; these form at high latitudes. Gyres are believed to contain a lot of waste in them. They contain a lot of plastic, chemical compounds, and other non-biodegradable waste products. Gyre is an important term in oceanography. Gyres can be caused by a number of reasons; one of them is the Coriolis force. The coriolis effect is caused because of the rotation of the earth. This effect causes a number of cyclones on the earth’s surface.
Gyre Facts. • A Gyre is a naturally occurring vortex of wind and currents that rotate in a clockwise direction in the northern hemisphere and counter-clockwise in the southern hemisphere. These create a whirlpool effect, whose vortex moves more slowly at the center and that is where marine plastic debris collects. • There are 5 major Gyres in the oceans worldwide, all of which are believed to contain plastic and persistent organic pollutants (POPs). These consist of carbon-containing chemical compounds that, to a varying degree, resist photochemical, biological and chemical degradation.
gyre. 1. a ring or circle. 2. a circular course or motion. 3. a ringlike system of ocean currents rotating clockwise in the Northern Hemisphere and counterclockwise in the Southern Hemisphere. gȳrus gŷros ring, circle]. gyre. n. A circular or spiral motion or form, especially a circular ocean current. intr.v. gyred, gyr·ing, gyres. To whirl. [Latin.
The North Pacific Gyre, located in the northern Pacific Ocean, is one of the five major oceanic gyres. This gyre covers most of the northern Pacific Ocean. It is the largest ecosystem on Earth, located between the equator and 50° N latitude, and comprising 20 million square kilometers. The gyre has a clockwise circular pattern and is formed by four prevailing ocean currents: the North Pacific Current to the north, the California Current to the east, the North Equatorial Current to the south, and the Kuroshio Current to the west.