Gluten (from Latin gluten,  glue ) is a protein composite found in wheat and related grains, including barley and rye. Gluten gives elasticity to dough, helping it rise and keep its shape and often gives the final product a chewy texture. 
A gluten-free diet is called a gluten-free diet because the grains that must be avoided all contain a protein called gluten. Most people who follow a gluten-free diet have celiac disease, a serious genetically-based autoimmune disease. A gluten-free diet does not include the grains wheat, barley, rye, or hybrids of these grains. This includes all varieties and forms of these grains, such as spelt (a type of wheat) and malt (made from barley)
The most frequently used are maize (corn), potatoes, rice, and tapioca (derived from cassava). Other grains and starch sources generally considered suitable for gluten-free diets include amaranth, arrowroot, millet, montina, lupine, quinoa, sorghum (jowar), sweet potato, taro, teff, and yam. People wishing to follow a completely gluten free diet must also take into consideration the ingredients of any over-the-counter or prescription medications and vitamins. Also, cosmetics such as lipstick, lip balms, and lip chap may contain gluten and need to be investigated before use.
Gluten free means foods that do not have gluten. Commonly found in wheat, gluten is a type of protein. It is also found in barley and rye. Gluten is the ingredient that gives dough its elasticity. Some topical beauty treatments use gluten. Gluten is used extensively as a food additive. 
Definition. A gluten-free diet is a diet that excludes the protein gluten. Gluten is found in grains such as wheat, barley, rye, and a cross between wheat and rye called triticale. A gluten-free diet is primarily used to treat celiac disease. Gluten causes inflammation in the small intestines of people with celiac disease. 
What foods contain gluten? A gluten free diet is a diet completely free of ingredients derived from gluten-containing foods: wheat (including Kamut and spelt), barley, rye, oats and triticale, as well as the use of gluten as a food additive in the form of a flavoring, stablizing or thickening agent. People wishing to follow a completely gluten free diet must also take into consideration the ingredients of any over-the-counter or prescription medications and vitamins. Also, cosmetics such as lipstick, lip balms, and lip chap may contain gluten and need to be investigated before use.
If you are on a gluten free diet, you must avoid any foods containing these grains or their derivatives. Grains Not Allowed on the Gluten Free Diet include: 1  Wheat including but not limited to Bulgur, Couscous, Einkorn, Durum, Farro, Graham, Kamut, Matzo Meal, Semolina and Spelt. 2  Barley is a grain and also used to make malt flavoring. 3  It can be listed as barley, barley malt or just malt. 