This is the last class of macromolecules. Unlike the previous groups, however, lipids are a chemically diverse group of molecules that all share a common property: they are (relatively) insoluble in water due to their hydrophobicity (and thus soluble in other lipids). 2. Steroids: This second class of lipids has almost nothing in common with triglycerides other than the fact that they are hydrophobic. All steroids are derivatives of a common structure made up of 4 fused carbon rings.
Cholesterol is a lipid with a unique structure consisting of four linked hydrocarbon rings forming the bulky steroid structure. There is a hydrocarbon tail linked to one end of the steroid and a hydroxyl group linked to the other end. Steroid, as a cholesterol, is one of the most basic lipids and consists of multiple rings of connected atoms such as hexagons and pentagon. Some examples of steroids are vitamin D, estrogen, and cortison, which are molecules that are critical for keeping the body running smoothly.
Cholesterol belongs to the lipid group of macromolecules and is a member of the group of sterols. The main functions of lipids include storing energy, signaling, and acting … as structural components of cell membranes. Lipid is sometimes used as a synonym for fats. 7 people found this useful. 1 Reducing Your LDL With Drugs and Diet The basic rule of thumb suggests that you want to have a low LDL (bad cholesterol) and a higher HDL (good cholesterol). 2  Levels of the artery-clogging waxy substance tend to r…. 3  Using Alcohol to Improve Cholesterol Drinking alcohol can affect your health in many different ways.
Lipids. Fats, oils, waxes, phospholipids and steroids all belong to the family of lipids. Steroids specifically derive from terpenes, the largest class of natural products, according to the Michigan State University Chemistry Department. Steroids occur throughout your body and play important physiological roles. Cholesterol. Animal products are rich sources of dietary cholesterol, but your body is also able to make all the cholesterol it needs. In addition to being a structural component of all cells, cholesterol helps your body digest fats and produce vitamin D, as well as hormones.
Cholesterol belongs to the lipid group of macromolecules and is a member of the group of sterols. The main functions of lipids include storing energy, signaling, and acting as structural components of cell membranes. 
Cholesterol belongs to the groups of lipids called _______. 
It has LIPID-LIKE qualities, but is not a lipid. Lipids have a glycerol head and then fatty-acid chains, while cholesterol is made up of benzene rings. It IS lipophilic though...which is why many people get confused. 
3. Phospholipids: This class of lipids are really derivatives of triglycerides. The are composed of a glycerol molecule with two fatty acids (a diglyceride). The third carbon contains a phosphate group and usually some added polar molecule (such as ethanolamine, serine or choline). 2. Steroids: This second class of lipids has almost nothing in common with triglycerides other than the fact that they are hydrophobic. All steroids are derivatives of a common structure made up of 4 fused carbon rings.
The triesters of glycerol (triglycerides) are of greatest importance. Neutral triglycerides are important because of their ability to store energy. Triglycerides are esters of fatty acids with alcohols like glycerol. Fats and oils are generally called simple lipids. They are the main form in which fat is stored in plants and animals. Phospholipids: They are the common lipids found in cell membranes. Phosphoglyceride belong to a class of phospholipids. These contain glycerol, phosphates, two fatty acids and compound that may be choline, ethanolamine, serine or inositol. Lecithins and and ciphalins are representative of the phospholipids