Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) is a measure of the function of the kidneys. This test measures the level of creatinine in the blood and uses the result in a formula to calculate a number that reflects how well the kidneys are functioning, called the estimated GFR or eGFR. The GFR refers to the amount of blood that is filtered by the glomeruli per minute. As a person's kidney function declines due to damage or disease, the filtration rate decreases and waste products begin to accumulate in the blood.
An eGFR blood test maybe recommended by your doctor to determine the creatinine levels in the blood. The test reveals kidney function and indicates how well or poorly your kidneys are filtering the creatinine (waste produced through muscle function) from your blood. EGFR stands for estimated glomerular filtration rate. An eGFR blood test is used whenever there is suspicion of a kidney disease. This is usually the case in patients who are suffering from diabetes or from hypertension for a prolonged period of time.
GFR-glomerular filtration rate is the best test to measure your level of kidney function and determine your stage of kidney disease. Your doctor can calculate it from the results of your blood creatinine test, your age, body size and gender. Your GFR tells your doctor your stage of kidney disease and helps the doctor plan your treatment. If your GFR number is low, your kidneys are not working as well as they should. The earlier kidney disease is detected, the better the chance of slowing or stopping its progression
Measured Creatinine Clearance, which gives an assessment of Glomerular Filtration Rate (GFR), is calculated from serum and urine creatinine levels and requires a blood sample from a vein in your arm and normally a 24-hour collection of urine. 
Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) describes the flow rate of filtered fluid through the kidney. Creatinine clearance rate (CCr or CrCl) is the volume of blood plasma that is cleared of creatinine per unit time and is a useful measure for approximating the GFR. Creatinine clearance exceeds GFR due to creatinine secretion, which can be blocked by cimetidine.
The eGFR is used to screen for and detect early kidney damage and to monitor kidney status. It is performed by ordering a creatinine test and calculating the estimated glomerular filtration rate. The National Kidney Foundation has recommended that it be calculated automatically every time a creatinine test is done. A creatinine test and eGFR may be ordered any time that a health practitioner wants to evaluate a person's kidney function as part of a health checkup or if kidney disease is suspected.
GFR on a blood test stands for Glomerular Filtration Rate. This test is used to used to test how well the kidneys are working. It estimates how much blood passes through the filters in the kidney, called the glomeruli, every minute. The normal value for GFR is 130-140 ml /min of creatinine(a substance used to check kidney functioning). glomerular filteration rate, this test is done to check the kidney function. GFR stands for glomerular flow rate. It provides an index for the function of the kidneys. A normal GFR or Glomerular Filtration Rate, is similar in both men and women. For adults it is between 100-130 ml/min/1.73m2. For children a GFR at 110 ml/min/1.73m2 is normal … . GFR's are used to assess kidney damage or kidney disease.
Creatinine is a waste product from the normal breakdown of muscle tissue. As creatinine is produced, it's filtered through the kidneys and excreted in urine. Doctors measure the blood creatinine level as a test of kidney function. The kidneys ' ability to handle creatinine is called the creatinine clearance rate, which helps to estimate the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) -- the rate of blood flow through the kidneys. Creatinine is a waste product that is produced continuously during normal muscle breakdown. The kidneys filter creatinine from the blood into the urine, and reabsorb almost none of it. The amount of blood the kidneys can make creatinine-free each minute is called the creatinine clearance.
This is either a blood test or a urine test that looks for changes in how your kidneys function. Your kidneys have tiny filters called glomeruli. The filters help remove waste from your blood. Your glomerular filtration rate is the rate at which your blood is filtered each minute. A glomerular filtration rate can be estimated with great accuracy, based on your weight and age. This is called the estimated glomerular filtration rate, or EGFR.
A blood test for eGFR or estimated glomuler filtration rate is a measurement used to check for the stage of renal failure that a person is experiencing. This is a test that is quite complicated and requires a trained nephrologist to perform. An eGFR blood test is used whenever there is suspicion of a kidney disease. This is usually the case in patients who are suffering from diabetes or from hypertension for a prolonged period of time.