The Animal Kingdom (Clade 1) is a natural, highly diverse group of organisms, most of which are multicellular and develop from a blastula (Margulis and Schwartz 1998). However, I depart from Margulis and Schwartz (1998) in that I include the choanoflagellates and the myxozoans as part of the natural group. They are diploblastic, that is, they have two cells layers (endoderm and ectoderm) in mature animals. Endoderm is the layer that lines the gut while the ectoderm is the cellular layer on the outside of the animal.
2. 2) The larvae of some insects are merely small versions of the adult, whereas the larvae of other insects look completely different from adults, eat different foods, and may live in different habitats. 6) In individual insects of some species, whole chromosomes that carry larval genes are eliminated from the genomes of somatic cells at the time of metamorphosis. A consequence of this occurrence is that. A) we could not clone a larva from the somatic cells of such an adult insect.
Animal Phyla in the Tree of Life. Using Formal Classification Terminology. Also see: Simplified Tree of Life Suitable to Organize Fossil Record Cambrian Explosion Small Shelly Animals (Tommotian Fauna). In biological taxonomy, a phylum (plural phyla) is a taxon in the rank below kingdom and above class. The taxonomic rank of phylum is normally used with specificity as if science truly knows the placement of life in the tree of life.
Aristotle divided the living world between animals and plants, and this was followed by Carl Linnaeus, in the first hierarchical classification. In Linnaeus's original scheme, the animals were one of three kingdoms, divided into the classes of Vermes, Insecta, Pisces, Amphibia, Aves, and Mammalia. Since then the last four have all been subsumed into a single phylum, the Chordata, whereas the various other forms have been separated out. Among the other phyla, the Ctenophora and the Cnidaria, which includes sea anemones, corals, and jellyfish, are radially symmetric and have digestive chambers with a single opening, which serves as both the mouth and the anus.
Ecdysozoa /ˌɛkdɪsɵˈzoʊ.ə/ is a group of protostome animals, including Arthropoda (insects, chelicerata, crustaceans, and myriapods), nematoda, and several smaller phyla. They were first defined by Aguinaldo et al. in 1997, based mainly on phylogenetic trees constructed using 18S ribosomal RNA genes. Inclusion of the roundworms within the Ecdysozoa was initially contested but since 2003, a broad consensus has formed supporting the Ecdysozoa and in 2011 the Darwin–Wallace Medal was awarded for the discovery of the New Animal Phylogeny consisting of the Ecdysozoa, the Lophotrochozoa, and the Deuterostomia.
There are 36 recognized animal phyla, of which but nine (Mollusca, Porifera, Cnidaria, Platyhelminthes, Nematoda, Annelida, Arthropoda, Echinodermata, and Chordata) contain the vast majority of described, extant species. The taxonomic rank of phylum is normally used with specificity as if science truly knows the placement of life in the tree of life.
(2005) concludes, among other things, that this (Clade 5) is the base of the Animal Clade and that the Parazoa and Choanozoa are sister groups to the animals. The Radiate Clade (6): The Diploblastic Animals. Typically, these are the cnidarians (jellyfish, corals, and hydrozoans) and show a radial form of symmetry. They are diploblastic, that is, they have two cells layers (endoderm and ectoderm) in mature animals. Endoderm is the layer that lines the gut while the ectoderm is the cellular layer on the outside of the animal.
At a deeper level, the Animal Kingdom (metazoans + choanoflagellates) is a sister group of the fungi (Bauldauf and Palmer, 1993), and together they form a group called the Opisthokonts (Cavalier-Smith and Chao 1995; Cavalier-Smith et al. 1996; and Patterson 1999). They are diploblastic, that is, they have two cells layers (endoderm and ectoderm) in mature animals. Endoderm is the layer that lines the gut while the ectoderm is the cellular layer on the outside of the animal.
Body plan is one approach to defining phyla. Development of the animal body plan was (and is) controlled by large and complex gene regulatory networks. It follows that evolution of body plans corresponded to adpative changes in the architecture of these developmental gene regulatory networks. The taxonomic rank of phylum is normally used with specificity as if science truly knows the placement of life in the tree of life.
A large study in 2008 by Dunn et al. strongly supported the Ecdysozoa as a clade, that is, a group consisting of a common ancestor and all its descendants. The group is also supported by morphological characters, and includes all animals that shed their exoskeleton (see ecdysis). The group was initially contested by a significant minority of biologists. Inclusion of the roundworms within the Ecdysozoa was initially contested but since 2003, a broad consensus has formed supporting the Ecdysozoa and in 2011 the Darwin–Wallace Medal was awarded for the discovery of the New Animal Phylogeny consisting of the Ecdysozoa, the Lophotrochozoa, and the Deuterostomia.