The garage conversion should be quite cheap, maybe £5000. However, the main costs of any extension are in the foundations and ground floor. Additional storeys cost a lot less. My guess (and it is a guess) is that you need to allow at least £15,000 for your extension. Charles S · 7 years ago. The size of the area of land is approximately 16 foot by 10 foot and it is just a one story building. We are only in early stages of deciding to have it done-haven't got planning permission or anything yet so was just after a rough estimate really.
As a rough idea you can typically say that it will cost at least £1000 per m 2 or 93 per ft 2 including basic plumbing and electrician work. This price is per unit area of internal floor space and so a 5x4m single floor extension will have a total floor area of 20m 2 and a double storey will have 40m 2. The price per square metre also depends on the size of the property. There are basic costs that don't increase too much with size and hence the cost per square metre will decrease as the floor area increases. The price for a home extension depends on several factors. 1  Where you are in the country.
I recommend that you get bids from at least 3 licensed contractors. The amount of money that it will cost depends on what you want in the room addition. Recently, one of my clients asked for bids for a 400 square foot room addition for his home. The bids that he received were in the range of $35,000 to $45,000. On the low end if this 500 sqft will be a 2 car garage then possibly you can build it for $100 a square foot..depending on who you hire, how much work you do yourself. if this new space will be a big kitchen and family room then it could easily cost $200k or even $300k depending on your taste.
My current house is about 1,500 square feet and my lot is 6,400. It's 3 bedrooms with 2 tiny bathrooms and a mini kitchen. I don't think I could afford to expand the kitchen-all the water, electrical etc would probably cost a fortune plus it was remodeled a few years ago. 
Extensions are more expensive: RICS gives a guide cost of between £1,260 and £1,680 per square metre for an extension with plastered finish. So a 20-square metre single-storey extension will range from £25,200 to £33,600 – before you've put down flooring or installed a kitchen. 
ARTICLE Stephanie Matheson. A same level house extension in Australia will cost approximately $60,000 to $200,000+. Adding a room or extending your living area on the ground floor are affordable ways of creating more space. Here are some key points to consider that will help you keep your renovation costs in check. In most cases, when you are extending your home you will be able to keep all the original cladding on your house and simply add the same style of cladding to your addition so it blends in perfectly. Painting the exterior of an average sized, single-storey house with a one-room extension is likely to cost around $15,000.
The best way to find out the cost of building an extension in your your area is to Post an Enquiry for home extension costs. You will get up to four house extension prices to compare and you are under no obligation whatsoever to accept any of them. Finding out the cost of building an extension is a good starting point as you will also get loads of advice on different extension designs and extension ideas.
NEXT STEP. Find out how much your project will cost. Provide a few details about your project and receive competitive quotes from local pros. The average national cost of adding a room or building an addition is $40,960, with most homeowners spending between $21,711 and $63,014. This data is based on actual project costs as reported by HomeAdvisor member