HIV-positive having a positive reaction on a test for the human immunodeficiency virus; used to indicate that an individual has been infected with the human immunodeficiency virus but does not yet have AIDS.
Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) is a chronic, potentially life-threatening condition caused by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). By damaging your immune system, HIV interferes with your body's ability to fight the organisms that cause disease. HIV is a sexually transmitted infection.
: any of several retroviruses and especially HIV-1 that infect and destroy helper T cells of the immune system causing the marked reduction in their numbers that is diagnostic of AIDS—called also AIDS virus, human immunodeficiency virus.
n human immunodeficiency virus; one of two retrovirus strains, HIV-1, or HIV-2, that attacks the T cells of the immune system with debilitat-ing effects, producing a syndrome called acquired immune deficiency (AIDS).
: either of two retroviruses that infect and destroy helper T cells of the immune system causing the marked reduction in their numbers that is diagnostic of AIDS —called also AIDS virus, human immunodeficiency virus — compare HIV-1, HIV-2. See HIV defined for English-language learners.
HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) is a virus that attacks the immune system, the body's natural defense system. Without a strong immune system, the body has trouble fighting off disease. Both the virus and the infection it causes are called HIV. White blood cells are an important part of the immune system.
HIV is a virus spread through body fluids that affects specific cells of the immune system, called CD4 cells, or T cells. Over time, HIV can destroy so many of these cells that the body can’t fight off infections and disease. When this happens, HIV infection leads to AIDS.
Translations for 'HIV-positive'. 1  British English: HIV-positive If someone is HIV-positive, they are infected with the HIV virus, which reduces the ability of people's bodies to fight illness, and they may develop AIDS.Some people who are HIV-positive develop AIDS more slowly than others.eɪtʃ aɪ viː ˈpɒzɪtɪv ADJECTIVE.
1 British English: HIV-positive If someone is HIV-positive, they are infected with the HIV virus, which reduces the ability of people's bodies to fight illness, and they may develop AIDS.Some people who are HIV-positive develop AIDS more slowly than others.eɪtʃ aɪ viː ˈpɒzɪtɪv ADJECTIVE.
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) causes HIV infection and AIDS. The virus attacks the immune system. As the immune system weakens, the body is at risk of getting life-threatening infections and cancers. Once a person has the virus, it stays inside the body for life.