Cancer is a disease in which cells in the body grow out of control. When cancer starts in the lungs, it is called lung cancer. Lung cancer begins in the lungs and may spread to lymph nodes or other organs in the body, such as the brain. Cancer from other organs also may spread to the lungs. When cancer cells spread from one organ to another, they are called metastases
COPD, or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, is a lung disease that causes coughing, wheezing, shortness of breath, and other symptoms. COPD is a major cause of disability and the third leading cause of death in the United States. Describes how COPD, or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, is a progressive disease that makes it hard to breathe. Details the symptoms of COPD. Shows how the disease works in the lungs. Explains how progress of the disease can be slowed.
COPD is a type of obstructive lung disease in which chronic incompletely reversible poor airflow (airflow limitation) and inability to breathe out fully (air trapping) exist. The poor airflow is the result of breakdown of lung tissue (known as emphysema) and small airways disease (known as obstructive bronchiolitis). Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), also known as chronic obstructive lung disease (COLD), and chronic obstructive airway disease (COAD), among others, is a type of obstructive lung disease characterized by chronically poor airflow.
Airway obstruction pathology in COPD. The airway obstruction that is characteristic of COPD is caused by a mixture of small airway disease called obstructive bronchiolitis as well as due to damage and destruction of the lung tissues or lung parenchyma in a process called emphysema. By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is one of the commonest lung disorders that is associated with smoking. It is typically characterized by chronic airflow obstruction and difficulty in breathing.
Pulmonary Fibrosis. Pulmonary fibrosis (PF) is one of a family of related diseases called interstitial lung diseases that can result in lung scarring. As the lung tissue becomes scarred, it interferes with a person's ability to breathe. In some cases, the cause of pulmonary fibrosis can be found. In pulmonary fibrosis, tissue deep in the lungs becomes thick, stiff and scarred. The scarring is called fibrosis. As the lung tissue becomes scarred, it interferes with a person's ability to breathe.
Pneumonia is an inflammatory condition of the lung affecting primarily the microscopic air sacs known as alveoli. It is usually caused by infection with viruses or bacteria and less commonly other microorganisms, certain drugs and other conditions such as autoimmune diseases. 
Bronchitis is a respiratory disease in which the mucus membrane in the lungs ' bronchial passages becomes inflamed. As the irritated membrane swells and grows thicker, it narrows or shuts off the tiny airways in the lungs, resulting in coughing spells that may be accompanied by phlegm and breathlessness. 