Most employers, particularly small-and medium-sized companies, outsource background checks to consumer reporting agencies. These agencies are generally very fast, but the time it takes the check to come back to the employer depends on a number of factors. According to the University of Berkeley, FBI checks usually take around 30 days. Although some instant background checks are available, these rely on databases that can be incomplete or inaccurate.
Conducting background checks on a perspective employee is a crucial part of any hiring process. Employment screening can take anywhere from one to five days in most cases. This often depends on the type of background check an employer is running and myriad other circumstances. There is one other thing that employers should keep in mind as they run a background check on a perspective employee. If there is something in the criminal background check or the credit check that prevents a perspective employee from receiving a job offer, the employer is legally obligated to notify them.
Patience when doing employment background checks can significantly reduce the risk of a bad hire! The idea of an instant background check sounds great. However, a quality background takes some effort and time. It takes time to identify, locate, and contact the correct court, employer, school, or licensing agency. For more information, see Proper Employment Background Checks: Patience Now Means Accuracy and Completeness Later. In addition, databases used in instant background checks are notoriously incomplete and out of date. The most common reason for delay is carelessness in filling out the Employee Background Check Request Form, the Applicant Authorization and Release Form, and the Job Application. Also, remember that information for a background check is gathered from multiple sources. Some courts, employers, and schools can be hard to contact or are slow to respond. Results from these sources are usually back within a week
How long does it take to do a background check. The time it takes to complete background checks is dependent on a lot of factors and usually varies from one company to another. For most positions, the norm seems to be around 24 to 36 hours. Some companies go beyond the normal range of one to three days, often completing the pre-employment background check ofan applicant in one to two weeks.But applicants need not to worry if their background check is taking too long though.
A common question is How long does a background check take?. In most cases employment background check reports are complete in one to three business days from the time we receive the order. The most common reason for delay is carelessness in filling out the Employee Background Check Request Form, the Applicant Authorization and Release Form, and the Job Application. Also, remember that information for a background check is gathered from multiple sources. Some courts, employers, and schools can be hard to contact or are slow to respond. Results from these sources are usually back within a week
Depending on the organization, industry and job responsibilities, checks can include elements such as a criminal background check, reference checks, employment verification, education verification, driving record, drug testing and, or social media research. All of these aspects are important, and all can take time. There is one other thing that employers should keep in mind as they run a background check on a perspective employee. If there is something in the criminal background check or the credit check that prevents a perspective employee from receiving a job offer, the employer is legally obligated to notify them.
Average time. Most background checks can be completed between three days to one week. According to the University of Berkeley, FBI checks usually take around 30 days. Although some instant background checks are available, these rely on databases that can be incomplete or inaccurate. Instant criminal records databases, in particular, often contain many errors
1 Figure that your average background check will be completed in 2 to 4 days. 2  Don’t take shortcuts in the screening process. 3  If it sound too good to be true (i.e. instant background checks or guarantees on exactly how long a search will take), it most definitely is. 
As background checks differ from company-to-company, the time frame may differ at all points in time. Generally, one can receive a complete background check report within 1-3 business day(s) though if it includes a complete criminal records check, it may take 3-7 week days. This is because educational institutions, courts and government agencies usually take enough time to get back with required details. If a criminal background check process includes an FBI background check, then you may add 30 days to the whole process as well. As all details are gathered from a variety of sources and synchronized at one place in the end, one must remain prepared for the number of days it may take.