Monocots are seeds that have only one cotyledon, while dicots are plants with two cotyledons. The cotyledons are formed during the process of embryogenesis along with the roots and shoots of the plant prior to germination. In dicot plants, the cotyledons are photosynthetic and function like leaves. The cotyledons are the first part of the plant to emerge from the soil. Some cotyledons last only days after growing from the soil and give way for other plant growth, while some cotyledons can last for years.
Cotyledon. Definition. noun, plural: cotyledons. (1) (botany) The primary or rudimentary leaf of the embryo of a seed plant that either remains in the seed or emerges upon seed germination; a modified leaf that is part of the plant embryo within the seed; a seed leaf. 
Upon germination, the cotyledon may become the embryonic first leaves of a seedling. The number of cotyledons present is one characteristic used by botanists to classify the flowering plants (angiosperms). Species with one cotyledon are called monocotyledonous (monocots). The cotyledons contain (or in the case of gymnosperms and monocotyledons, have access to) the stored food reserves of the seed. As these reserves are used up, the cotyledons may turn green and begin photosynthesis, or may wither as the first true leaves take over food production for the seedling.
In human development, the cotyledons are the approximately 15-25 separations of the decidua basalis of the placenta, separated by placental septa. Each cotyledon consists of a main stem of a chorionic villus as well as its branches and subbranches etc. 
Report Abuse. A cotyledon (Greek: κοτυληδών) is a significant part of the embryo within the seed of a plant. Upon germination, the cotyledon usually becomes the embryonic first leaves of a seedling. The number of cotyledons present is one characteristic used by botanists to classify the flowering plants (angiosperms)
Seed bearing plants have cotyledons in their embryos. In  angiosperms there are dicot plants having two cotyledons in the  embryo and monocots having only one cotyledon. Exa … mples of dicots  are pea, gram, soybean etc. and of monocots are-wheat, barley,  paddy and maize etc. 
Cotyledons are the first part of a plant to emerge from the seed. They are formed within the seed along with the endosperm. Botanists classify plants based on the number of cotyledons they have. Cotyledons function to provide the initial growth for the plant and as an energy source. In dicot plants, the cotyledons are photosynthetic and function like leaves. The cotyledons are the first part of the plant to emerge from the soil. Some cotyledons last only days after growing from the soil and give way for other plant growth, while some cotyledons can last for years.
A cotyledon is part of the embryo within the seed of a plant. Often when the seed germinates, or begins to grow, the cotyledon may become the first leaves of the seedling. Botanists use the number of cotyledons present in the seed of a plant as a means of classification. In dicot plants, the cotyledons are photosynthetic and function like leaves. The cotyledons are the first part of the plant to emerge from the soil. Some cotyledons last only days after growing from the soil and give way for other plant growth, while some cotyledons can last for years.
A cotyledon (/kɒtɨˈliːdən/ ; seed leaf from Greek: κοτυληδών kotylēdōn, gen.: κοτυληδόνος kotylēdonos, from κοτύλη kotýlē cup, bowl) is a significant part of the embryo within the seed of a plant. The cotyledons contain (or in the case of gymnosperms and monocotyledons, have access to) the stored food reserves of the seed. As these reserves are used up, the cotyledons may turn green and begin photosynthesis, or may wither as the first true leaves take over food production for the seedling.