Parallel structure is repetition of the same pattern of words or phrases within a sentence or passage to show that two or more ideas have the same level of importance.
These techniques are what make this quote a great example of parallel structure. Using the same pattern of words to show that two or more ideas have the same level of importance is the definition of parallel structure. Parallel structure provides balance and clarity in your writing.
NESL is a parallel language developed at Carnegie Mellon by the SCandAL project. It integrates various ideas from the theory community (parallel algorithms), the languages community (functional languages) and the system's community (many of the implementation techniques).
Parallel Structure Parallel structure means using the same pattern of words to show that two or more ideas have the same level of importance. This can happen at the word, phrase, or clause level. The usual way to join parallel structures is with the use of coordinating conjunctions such as and or or.. Words and Phrases With the-ing form (gerund) of words: Parallel: Mary likes hiking, swimming, and bicycling. With infinitive phrases: Parallel: Mary likes to hike, to swim, and to ride a bicycle.
Parallel structure means using the same pattern of words to show that two or more ideas have the same level of importance. This can happen at the word, phrase, or clause level … . The usual way to join parallel structures is with the use of coordinating conjunction's such as and or or..
Parallel Structure  Parallel structure means using the same pattern of words to show that two or more ideas have the same level of importance. This can happen at the word, ph … rase, or clause level. The usual way to join parallel structures is with the use of coordinating conjunctions such as and or or..
Parallel structure is an important element of proper writing. Words, phrases and clauses should all be parallel when linked together in a series or connected with coordinating conjunctions. Combinations and patterns of words should all agree with the subject.
Parallel structure means using the same pattern of words to show that two or more ideas have the same level of importance. This can happen at the word, phrase, or clause level. The usual way to join parallel structures is with the use of coordinating conjunctions such as and or or..