Medical Social Work Jobs. The job outlook for medial social workers is very good, with the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics predicting a 27 percent gain in employment between 2012 and 2022, which is a much higher rate than average for all occupations. Medical social workers address the emotional, social and financial needs that frequently accompany health care issues. They serve as case managers, counselors and advocates, providing patients and families with the nonmedical support needed to deal with acute, chronic and terminal conditions.
Social Work Salaries. The following is a breakdown of the average social worker salaries in all 50 states and for several different specializations, courtesy of the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Social worker salaries can vary widely depending on several factors, including your specialization, state and qualifications. Social Work License Map. The following is a breakdown of the average social worker salaries in all 50 states and for several different specializations, courtesy of the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the mean annual medical social worker salary in May 2013 paid by hospitals was $58,050. The mean salaries for social workers in other health care settings range from $52,840 to $57,380. States with the highest employment levels for medical social workers include California, New York, Massachusetts, Texas and Pennsylvania. Medical social workers address the emotional, social and financial needs that frequently accompany health care issues. They serve as case managers, counselors and advocates, providing patients and families with the nonmedical support needed to deal with acute, chronic and terminal conditions.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Medical Social Worker (MSW) in the United States is $59,391 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Medical Social Worker (MSW) in the United States are expected to make less than $59,391. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $59,391. 1  Salary. Requires a master's degree in social work and 2-4 years of experience in the field or in a related area. Familiar with standard concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field. Relies on experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. Performs a variety of tasks. Works under general supervision.
$53,000. Average medical social worker salaries for job postings nationwide are 8% lower than average salaries for all job postings nationwide.
Mean Annual Medical Social Worker Salary. The mean annual medical social worker salary is $51,460. The mean salary is calculated by adding all the wages within the occupation and divid that value by the total number of employees. Work Environment. Medical social workers are often employed in hospitals and other such public or private health care institutes. They offer counseling to individuals, as well as facilitating support groups and coordinating health care decisions and services.
The average annual salary for medical social workers is $57,000 although the pay range can go as low as $26,710 and as high as $70,390 per year in some settings. Hospitals tend to pay more than nursing care facilities. 
With states offering a wide variety of salary potentials, and the great swath of possible job prospects, these two factors are the primary points for investigation, with education and experience closely following. The national average for medical social worker salary is $51,460. However, based on the geographic area, this can vary by as much as $25,000; Puerto Rico, for instance, has an average wage of $26,880. Work Environment. Medical social workers are often employed in hospitals and other such public or private health care institutes. They offer counseling to individuals, as well as facilitating support groups and coordinating health care decisions and services.