Sidereal time /saɪˈdɪəriəl/ is a time-keeping system astronomers use to keep track of the direction to point their telescopes to view a given star in the night sky. Briefly, sidereal time is a time scale that is based on the Earth's rate of rotation measured relative to the fixed stars  rather than the Sun. Both solar time and sidereal time make use of the regularity of the Earth's rotation about its polar axis, solar time following the Sun while sidereal time roughly follows the stars.
Earth's sidereal day also differs from its rotation period relative to the background stars by the amount of precession in right ascension during one day (8.4 ms). Its J2000 mean value is 23 h 56 m 4.090 530 833 s. Both solar time and sidereal time make use of the regularity of the Earth's rotation about its polar axis, solar time following the Sun while sidereal time roughly follows the stars.
The word sidereal derives from the Latin word for “star”. This is because sidereal motion is motion with respect to the stars. One sidereal day is the time it takes for a star in the sky to come back to the same place in the sky. Because, for all intents and purposes, the sky is “fixed”, a sidereal day is when the earth rotates 360°. A sidereal day is 23 hours 56 minutes and 4.09 seconds long. A sidereal year is the time it takes for the sun to return to the same position with respect to the stars. Due to the precession of the equinoxes the sidereal year is about 20 minutes longer than the tropical year
A measurement of the sidereal day is made by noting the time at which a particular star passes the celestial meridian (i.e. directly overhead) on two sucessive nights. On Earth, a sidereal day lasts for 23 hours 56 minutes 4.091 seconds, which is slightly shorter than the solar day measured from noon to noon. Our usual definition of an Earth day is 24 hours, so the sidereal day is 4 minutes faster. This means that a particular star will rise 4 minutes earlier every night, and is the reason why different constellations are only visible at specific times of the year. Sidereal Day. A sidereal day is the time it takes for the Earth to rotate about its axis so that the distant stars appear in the same position in the sky. A solar day is the time it takes for the Earth to rotate about its axis so that the Sun appears
sidereal day. A measure of time approximately equal to 23 hr, 56 min, 4.09 sec. A sidereal day represents the time needed for one complete rotation of the Earth on its axis.
sidereal day. n. The time required for a single rotation of the earth on its axis in reference to any star or to the vernal equinox at the meridian, equal to 23 hours, 56 minutes, 4.09 seconds in units of mean solar time. n. A measure of time approximately equal to 23 hr, 56 min, 4.09 sec. A sidereal day represents the time needed for one complete rotation of the Earth on its axis.
In other words, a solar day is how long it takes Earth to rotate once – and then some. A sidereal day – 23 hours 56 minutes and 4.1 seconds – is the amount of time needed to complete one rotation. In this system, the stars always appear at the same place in the sky at the same time each sidereal day.
The sidereal day is the time it takes for the Earth to complete one rotation about its axis with respect to the ‘fixed’ stars. By fixed, we mean that we treat the stars as if they were attached to an imaginary celestial sphere at a very large distance from the Earth. Sidereal Day. A sidereal day is the time it takes for the Earth to rotate about its axis so that the distant stars appear in the same position in the sky. A solar day is the time it takes for the Earth to rotate about its axis so that the Sun appears
Noun. 1. sidereal time-measured by the diurnal motion of stars. cosmic time-the time covered by the physical formation and development of the universe. sidereal day, day-the time for one complete rotation of the earth relative to a particular star, about 4 minutes shorter than a mean solar day. sidereal year-the time for the earth to make one complete revolution around the sun, relative to the fixed stars
Tweet. : the interval between two successive transits of a point on the celestial sphere (as the vernal equinox) over the upper meridian of a place: 23 hours, 56 minutes, 4.1 seconds of mean time. ADVERTISEMENT. 