IRS Withholding Calculator. If you are an employee, the Withholding Calculator can help you determine whether you need to give your employer a new Form W-4, Employee's Withholding Allowance Certificate to avoid having too much or too little Federal income tax withheld from your pay. To Change Your Withholding: 1  Use your results from this calculator to help you complete a new Form W-4, Employee's Withholding Allowance Certificate. 2  Submit the completed Form to your employer.
If you claim the perfect number of allowances, you'll owe no tax and end up with a refund of $0. Image: DonkeyHotey, Flickr. The W4 form is short and might seem like it should be easy to fill out, yet it still confuses many people. A key confounding issue is how many allowances to claim on the W4. Image: DonkeyHotey, Flickr The W4 form is short and might seem like it should be easy to fill out, yet it still confuses many people. A key confounding issue is how many allowances to claim on the W4. Let's take a look at the W4 form, at what allowances are, and at some strategies you might employ.
Dependents claimed on your tax return are often not the same as allowances on the Form W-4. Allowances on the W-4 are designed to reduce your income by the amount of non-taxable income calculated on your tax return. 
When this happens, you may need to give your employer a new Form W–4 to change your withholding status or number of allowances. If the event changes your withholding status or the number of allowances you are claiming, you must give your employer a new Form W–4 within 10 days after either of the following. Your divorce, if you have been claiming married status. Any event that decreases the number of withholding allowances you can claim. Changing your withholding for the current year: If events in the prior year will decrease the number of your withholding allowances for this year, you must give your employer a new Form W–4 by December 1 of the prior year. If the event occurs in December of the prior year, submit a new Form W–4 within 10 days.
The Basics of Withholding Tax Allowance Exemptions. A withholding tax allowance is simply a number than you can claim on your W4 form that will change the amount of your income that your employer will withhold from you throughout the year. The number of allowances can vary, but is most likely 0, 1, or 2. 
You can claim no allowances, or you can claim any number up to the maximum, which is 10. The Worksheet. Allowances roughly correspond to the exemptions you claim on your annual tax return. As of tax year 2014, each allowance shelters $3,950 of your annual income from the employer's withholding calculation. The IRS provides a Personal Allowances Worksheet at the top of the W-4 form to make the calculation. Withholding and Allowances. The W-4 is a routine tax form you need to complete when you start a new job. On it, you give your employer instructions on how much income tax to withhold from each paycheck. The IRS uses a system of allowances for this purpose.
Jul 16, 2015 at 2:36PM. If you claim the perfect number of allowances, you'll owe no tax and end up with a refund of $0. Image: DonkeyHotey, Flickr The W4 form is short and might seem like it should be easy to fill out, yet it still confuses many people. A key confounding issue is how many allowances to claim on the W4. Let's take a look at the W4 form, at what allowances are, and at some strategies you might employ.