Atrial Flutter Overview. Atrial flutter is an abnormality of the heart rhythm, resulting in a rapid and sometimes irregular heartbeat. Such abnormalities, whether in the rate or regularity of the heartbeat, are known as arrhythmias. The beating of the heart is controlled by electrical impulses. 
In this article. Atrial flutter is an abnormality in the beating of the heart. Such abnormalities, whether in the rhythm or speed of the heartbeat, are known as arrhythmias. The heart is a muscle that pumps the blood through the body. 1  Each beat of the heart is a very rapid series of two contractions. 
AFL is a heart rhythm disorder that is similar to the more common A Fib. In. , the heart beats fast and in no regular pattern or rhythm. With AFL, the heart beats fast, but in a regular pattern. The fast, but regular pattern of AFL is what makes it special. AFL makes a very distinct sawtooth pattern on an electrocardiogram (ECG), a test used to diagnose abnormal heart rhythms.
Atrial flutter. In atrial flutter, your heart's upper chambers (atria) beat too quickly. This causes the heart to beat in a fast, regular rhythm. Atrial flutter is a type of heart rhythm disorder (arrhythmia) caused by problems in your heart's electrical system. Atrial flutter is similar to atrial fibrillation, a common heart rhythm disorder. 
Heart flutters, also known as heart palpitations, feel like a fluttering in the chest or an unusually fast heart rate. Often they can be attributed to stress, exercise or unusual activities. 
Overview. Atrial flutter (AFL) is a type of abnormal heart rate, or arrhythmia. It occurs when the upper chambers of your heart (the atria) beat too fast. When the top of your heart (atria) beats faster than the bottom (ventricles), it complicates your heart rhythm. 
Click the image to view an animation on Atrial Flutter. Atrial flutter (AFL) is a common abnormal heart rhythm, similar to atrial fibrillation, the most common abnormal heart rhythm. Both conditions are types of supraventricular (above the ventricles) tachycardia (rapid heart beat). , the heart beats fast and in no regular pattern or rhythm. With AFL, the heart beats fast, but in a regular pattern. The fast, but regular pattern of AFL is what makes it special. AFL makes a very distinct sawtooth pattern on an electrocardiogram (ECG), a test used to diagnose abnormal heart rhythms.
Palpitations are the most common symptom in an atrial flutter but many cases are also asymptomatic, meaning that a person will not experience any symptoms of an atrial flutter. Although it can be confusing, a fluttering heart can be used to refer to a symptom like palpitations, or a condition like an atrial flutter. Causes of a fluttering heart. The heart is constantly beating throughout life but a person is usually unable to perceive the constant relaxation and contraction. It is a muscular pump that circulates blood throughout the body.