Do not allow cooked quinoa to sit out at room temperature for longer than 2 hours, just like any other food. For a long term option, you can freeze your dry quinoa while preserving its taste if you use an oxygen-free (oxygen is the source of freezer burn) freezer safe container. Cooked quinoa also freezes well in an airtight freezer container. Since quinoa has a long shelf life if kept dry, it is hard to tell if it has gone bad. It generally does not become rancid or smell. Cooked quinoa that has gone bad will show a loss of texture as it hardens and then can grow mold.
1 For a healthier twist on pasta or potato salad, toss cooked quinoa with chopped vegetables, fresh herbs, vinegar and olive oil. 2  Add cooked quinoa to soups, stews and casseroles. 3  Store cooked and cooled quinoa in a tightly sealed container in the refrigerator for 3 to 5 days or in the freezer for up to 2 months. 1 Add cooked quinoa to soups, stews and casseroles. 2  Store cooked and cooled quinoa in a tightly sealed container in the refrigerator for 3 to 5 days or in the freezer for up to 2 months.
Quinoa isn’t a grain, it’s a seed. It will last far longer than 2 days in the fridge provided it is refrigerated no more than 4 hours after cooking. It will be edible for up to 7 days. To store them longer, freeze in tightly packed small storage containers for up to a month. Thaw by steaming with a little water on low in a covered pot or in a microwave using a glass dish, or set the storage container in hot water, changing every 1/2 hour.
To make sure it doesn't go bad or become contaminated, always eat it, refrigerate it or freeze it within 2 hours of cooking. Store cooked quinoa in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 1 week or in the freezer for up to 1 year. Oxygen exposure can lead to freezer burn in your quinoa, so make sure you use a container that has a tight seal. Raw quinoa will keep for up to 3 years when stored in an airtight container in a cool, dry place such as a kitchen cabinet, the refrigerator or the freezer.
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container.  . + 42 others found this useful.
The reddish-brown can take a little longer to cook, but I’ve mixed the two colors together without any trouble. As a general rule, I don’t keep cooked grains in the refrigerator for longer than a 3 – 4 days, and some people cut it off at 2 days. And keep in mind, quinoa freezes beautifully. To defrost, just throw it in the microwave for a minute, depending on the strength of your microwave. 
Refrigerate leftover quinoa or other grains in a tightly sealed storage container soon after cooking. If you’re in a hurry, and have room, you can just put the pan in the fridge (covered with a lid) for a few hours or until the next meal. My rule for left over grains is 2 days in the fridge. To store them longer, freeze in tightly packed small storage containers for up to a month. Thaw by steaming with a little water on low in a covered pot or in a microwave using a glass dish, or set the storage container in hot water, changing every 1/2 hour.
The shelf life of brown rice can be extended if it is stored in the refrigerator or freezer. Cooked rice, either white or brown, should be stored in the refrigerator and can be used for up to 3 or 4 days. For long term storage of cooked rice, store it the freezer for about two months. Storage Locations. Again, it is best to store buckwheat in the refrigerator or freezer. Shelf Life. The shelf life of buckwheat can be up to 2 to 3 months in the refrigerator and 6 months or longer in the freezer when stored correctly.
1 Store cooked and cooled quinoa in a tightly sealed container in the refrigerator for 3 to 5 days or in the freezer for up to 2 months. 1 Add cooked quinoa to soups, stews and casseroles. 2  Store cooked and cooled quinoa in a tightly sealed container in the refrigerator for 3 to 5 days or in the freezer for up to 2 months.