The entire DNA in cells can be found in individual pieces that are called chromosomes. The main difference between DNA and chromosome is regarding the role of genes. DNA stands for deoxyribonucleic acid. The DNA is basically made up of cytosine, adenine, thymine and guanine. When you arrange these four bases to create a particular segment, it is called a gene.
Key Difference: DNA, short for Deoxyribonucleic acid, is a molecule that encodes the genetic instructions that is used for the development and functioning of cells in a living organism and many viruses. Chromosomes and DNA are an important part that sustains the life and growth of living organisms.
Autosomal DNA is a term used in genetic genealogy to describe DNA which is inherited from the autosomal chromosomes. An autosome is any of the numbered chromosomes, as opposed to the sex chromosomes. Humans have 22 pairs of autosomes and one pair of sex chromosomes (the X chromosome and the Y chromosome).
In the nucleus, the DNA double helix is packaged by special proteins (histones) to form a complex called chromatin. The chromatin undergoes further condensation to form the chromosome. So while the chromatin is a lower order of DNA organization, chromosomes are the higher order of DNA organization.
by admin. DNA vs Chromosome. Nucleic acid constitutes the genetic material of all living organisms. These are polymers made up of sub-units called nucleotides. Nucleotide has three components, a five-carbon sugar, a nitrogen base and phosphoric acid.
• In a single cell, the number of both DNA and chromosomes are similar, but only chromosomes contain histone proteins. • The DNA which is much longer (4.8 cm) than chromosomes (6 µm) has a less coiled structure than chromosomes.
All of these are basic building blocks of the body. DNA is the smallest part that, together with proteins, forms a chromosome. A chromosome is therefore, nothing but a chain of DNA that has been made compact enough to fit into a cell. Summary: 1. Both chromosomes and DNA make up an important part of a person’s genes. 2. A chromosome is a subpart of a person’s genes, while DNA is a part of the