You can buy fancy ceramic pie weights or simply use a dried beans. Either way, put a layer of parchment between the crust and the pie weights to keep the pie from picking up any off flavors from the weights, and push the weights all the way to the edges to help keep the sides from collapsing during baking.
To use the pie weights, lay your uncooked pie crust in your pie plate. Place a sheet of aluminum foil on top of the crust and gently press it down until it covers the bottom and sides of the crust. Pie weights are used to weight down pie or tart pastry when you are baking. They’re typically used when a crust has to be partially baked – blind baked – before filling to ensure that the crust keeps its shape
As far as what kinds of pie weights to use, you have options. There are ceramic balls and also metal chains which coil around the inside of the pie crust (and are easier to lift out, since they're connected). You can find both for around $10 to $15. But you can also use dried beans. Now, you won't want to eat the beans after baking them (they take on a funny flavor, or so we've heard), but you can re-use them in blind baking pie crusts.
I have used a pie pan or plate that will fit inside of the crust and after baking for a few minutes, gently lift it out with pot holders and re poke the crust if you need to. It will work, or you can put foil in the crust and set the pie pan or plate on it and use the foil to lift it out after baking for a few. Now really....if you are so desperate for pie weights as to use pennies because you have no beans of any sort, no rice, no dry pasta, no pie weights....then the least of your worries is the outgassing of whatever from the zinc in pennies! Your sanity and relationship to the real world may be seriously compromised....
For most fruit pies, you do not need to blind-bake the crust, since the crust and the fruit will cook together slowly in the oven. If you don't have pie weights or dried beans, the most effective weight to use is another pie dish, if you have one. First, for the novice bakers out there, blind-baking is the term for prebaking a pie crust before the filling is added. (A basic tutorial is here .) Blind-baked crusts are used for fillings, like pumpkin or pecan, that will be baked only briefly.
Fill tart pan with pie weights, rice or beans, making sure the weights are to the top of the pan and evenly distributed over the entire surface. Bake the crust for 20 to 25 minutes or until the crust is dry and lightly golden brown. For Lemon Curd: While the crust is baking make the Lemon Curd. Now really....if you are so desperate for pie weights as to use pennies because you have no beans of any sort, no rice, no dry pasta, no pie weights....then the least of your worries is the outgassing of whatever from the zinc in pennies! Your sanity and relationship to the real world may be seriously compromised....
You can use dried beans instead of pie weights, but they do eventually need to be replaced. Bake the crust in a preheated 425°F oven for 12-15 minutes. After 8-10 minutes, you can remove the aluminum pan or foil and weights so that the crust browns a little. 
Blind baking a pie crust calls for filling the bottom crust with pie weights to keep the pastry from puffing up in the oven. But if you don't own pie weights, there's no need to purchase them. Instead, check your pantry for dried beans or uncooked riceboth will work just as well as pie weights. 