All you'll need is a wrench and your new pedals. If the terminology is confusing, just remember that clipless pedals are used with special cycling shoes that have cleats in the sole to connect them directly to the pedals. 
Cleats for clipless systems bolt to the soles of the shoes. Different systems use different cleats and bolt-hole patterns, so you need to take care to buy shoes that will work with your cleats and pedals. Cleats are sold with pedals, rather than shoes. As with toe clips and straps, practice getting your feet in and out of these pedals before you go riding with them. The motion is different from that with toe clips, and it also is different with different kinds of clipless pedals.
How to True a Bike Wheel.... 5. Cancel. Clipless pedal platforms have a metal piece that can be slipped into the pedal like a ski binding. Find out how to use an Allen wrench to tighten a clipless pedal with help from a former BMX and collegiate racer in this free video on bicycle repair. Part of the Video Series: Bicycle Repair. There is going to be an Allen wrench on the clipless pedal and in order to tighten it, you just adjust it to the right and then to loosen you adjust it to the left. You pretty much have to experiment with this by getting on and off your bike, seeing what you are comfortable with in terms of the tightness level.
Removing and replacing pedals is important for general bicycle maintenance or if you are traveling with your bike. Subscribe to GCN for more How To's: http://gcn.eu/gcnsubs. Without your pedals, you aren't going anywhere. Daniel Lloyd shows you how to remove and replace your pedals. Whether you use top-end clipless pedals, or more basic flat pedals, with the right tools and our How To, changing your pedals will be a simple task.
I'm new to clipless pedals. I got some Shimano ones, with Specialized MTB shoes. They are an SPD clipless pedal, and the shop adjusted them as loose as they go to unclip from them. My questions are:
Stands for Shimano Pedaling Dynamics and refers to any of Shimano’s clipless pedals though the terms SPD and spud are usually used to refer to Shimano’s mountain bike clipless pedals. tension adjustment. A screw or bolt on the pedal that allows you to adjust how hard it is to get in and out of the pedal. Clipless pedals keep your feet in place making it easier to pedal at a good cadence (the speed you pedal measured in revolutions of one pedal per minute; a good goal is 70 to 90rpm).
Float. Most pedals and cleats have a degree of float to allow your feet to pivot slightly as you pedal. Float is measured in degrees and is the amount by which the foot can move before releasing from the pedal. Some cleats are zero-float, or fixed, which, as you can imagine, keeps your feet 'locked in' to the pedal
How to use Shimano clipless pedals. See cleat installation with instruction on getting on and off your bike. BikemanforU's step-by-step video tutorial begins by securing the cleat to the bottom of your cycling shoe. Features the Serfas Trax clipless pedal compatible shoes for biking and hiking.
Removing feet from pedals. The motion is easier and more natural to remove feet from clipless pedals vs. other types of pedals. There are many advantages of clipless pedals. For most riders, it takes a bit of practice when first learning how to use this type of pedal. After a few tries, however, many riders become familiar with the fluid, natural movement of releasing the feet from the pedals.