Average temperature of a refrigerator is 35 - 38 degrees and -18 °C (0 °F) for the freezer. A household refrigerator should be maintained between 34 and 40 degrees Fahrenheit-just above freezing to maintain food quality but low enough to inhibit bacterial growth. Ideally your refrigerator should be at the correct temperature (less than 4°C). When the fridge is very full, turn thermostat to Colder setting. Freezer temperature should be maintained at minus 18°C. (Ice cream is a good indicator of freezer temperature: it should be firm.) Consult your fridge manufacturer's manual for advise on temperature control. Try not to keep opening the fridge door every few minutes
1 Keep the refrigerator temperature at or below 40° F (4° C). 2  The freezer temperature should be 0° F (-18° C). 3  Check temperatures periodically. 4  Appliance thermometers are the best way of knowing these temperatures and are generally inexpensive. 1 Also, when putting food away, don't crowd the refrigerator or freezer so tightly that air can't circulate. 2  Keep your appliances at the proper temperatures. 3  Keep the refrigerator temperature at or below 40° F (4° C). 4  The freezer temperature should be 0° F (-18° C). 5
In order to keep food out of the Danger Zone, your fridge must be set between 32-40° F (0-4 degrees Celsius). Your freezer must be below 32° F (0° Celsius). I keep mine as cold as it will go. Keep your freezer efficient by half-filling it with bottles of water. Your refrigerator probably isn't set right, and your food items may not be where they should be in your fridge. The kitchen fanatics at Stack Exchange offer a couple tips on ensuring your perishables don't perish.
At least 50% of the space needs to be filled at all times to allow for adequate circulation of cold air, and to stabilize the refrigerator temperature. [Vaccines should be maintained with the recommended temperature range of 35°F (2°C) to 45°F (8°C)]. 
Normally a domestic freezer is best set to −18 °C (0 °F) or colder, as that's what the expiration dates for many food items are based on. It's also a requirement for freezers in restaurants, supermarkets & other places that sell food (at least here in Europe) to maintain a temperature of at most -18 °C. A general purpose domestic fridge should be at around 1-4 °C (so, just above the freezing point, and below 5 °C). In order to keep food out of the Danger Zone, your fridge must be set between 32-40°F (0-4°C). Your freezer must be below 32°F (0°C). I keep mine as cold as it will go.
Therefore, you want your refrigerator to be cold, but not so cold that it freezes things. The preferred temperature is somewhere between 35 and 38 degrees F (1.7 to 3.3 degrees C). Anything higher and foods will spoil too quickly (it also presents food poisoning problems, as described in several of the links below). 
1 Keep a back-up appliance thermometer in the unit in case of a power outage. 2  If the refrigerator is still 40°F when the power returns, the food is safe. 3  The food should not be consumed if the temperature is held at 40°F for more than two hours. 
Freezer Storage. Keep your freezer at zero degrees (0°) or below to maintain the quality of frozen foods. Most foods will maintain good quality longer if the freezer temperature is -10 to -20°F. At temperatures between 0 and 32°F, food deteriorates more rapidly. Fluctuating temperatures, such as those in self-defrosting freezers, also may damage food quality.
If you keep potatoes in the fridge they should not be stored at temperatures below 7 °C (45 °F). If, that is, you intend to use them for roasting for frying. At lower temperatures the starch in the potato breaks down giving a burnt look and a bitter taste after roasting. In order to keep food out of the Danger Zone, your fridge must be set between 32-40°F (0-4°C). Your freezer must be below 32°F (0°C). I keep mine as cold as it will go.