Below is the image generated from a DermaScan: The colours indicate the density of the elastic fibre structures of the skin. The brighter areas indicate healthy, in-tact skin, whereas the darker, black areas indetify sun-damage and the loss of fibre-structure.
Dermascan (Skin) Screening. Your skin is the first line of defense against any pathogens, dirt, and especially the sun. A lot of skin cancer is caused by UV radiation from the sun, therefor detecting abnormalities in your skin can be the first step to maintaining healthier skin. 
Annual Health and Safety Fair. The Derma Scan is a simple box that uses ultraviolet (UV) light to show sun damage that is invisible to the naked eye. It is NOT a skin cancer screening. Remember, even a suntan is harmful. Tanning (under the sun or in a tanning bed) is an outward sign of internal skin damage. Long-term exposure to the sun and tanning booths contribute to the risk of developing skin cancer. Prevention is the key to preventing skin cancer. Melanoma is the most deadly form of skin cancer. 
With this machine, we can show them where they already have damage and tell them how important it is to protect their skin.. Using the Dermascan, a person puts his or her head under a curtained area where a black light and a mirror show different colorings of the face. A cancer center assistant looks into the machine from the other side and can point out the different colorings to the person. You never know what it might be, so it's good to always have it checked out, Lea said. Although the Dermascan can show sun damage, it is not a diagnostic tool. If there is a more concentrated area of freckling, we always encourage the person to see their doctor or a dermatologist.. Fitch handed out pamphlets about skin cancer and free sunscreen to all those who came to the clinic
DermaScan. Welcome to DermaScan. Dr. Grant Gerner, our providing physician, offers skin cancer screening, and diagnosis and treatment of localized cancers. We also offer total body mole mapping and dermoscopy, the latest technologies for detecting and diagnosing important skin changes. 
It’s a fun and informative way for you and your friends, family or colleagues to experience a personal Dermascan and consultation to show you what is going on in the deeper layers beneath your skin’s surface and how to get your skin to be ‘the healthiest skin ever!’. The colours indicate the density of the elastic fibre structures of the skin. The brighter areas indicate healthy, in-tact skin, whereas the darker, black areas indetify sun-damage and the loss of fibre-structure.
Q: What do participants actually see when they view their face in the DermaScan. A: They will see their face mirrored back at them under the black light. They will see various levels of florescent hues, depending on the oily, dry and sun damaged areas of their face. 
The DermaScan, is a unique patented medical ultrasound scanning technology, that enables a Beaute-Beauté pacifque specialist consultant to analyse your skin and obtain readings on the conditions and construction of your skin down to the deepest. layers The colours indicate the density of the elastic fibre structures of the skin. The brighter areas indicate healthy, in-tact skin, whereas the darker, black areas indetify sun-damage and the loss of fibre-structure.
Skin Damage Assessment. Facial skin is enclosed and evaluated in a unit called a Dermascan. Under the Dermascan's long-wave, Type A Ultraviolet light (also known as black light), the underlying condition of the skin is illuminated in various fluorescent hues. 