Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: At the top of the Messenger window click on Actions, at the bottom of the drop down menu click on Invite to Conference. That will open your friends list in another window, just click on the persons you want and hit ADD. Their names will go to the list on the right side then
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: 1.open yahoo messenger. 2.sign in with Ur user name and password 3.go to the messenger menu at top 4.than go to yahoo chat. 5.than choose join room 6.after selecting the room enter the verification code by clicking on verification message in big field at left side. 7.enjoy Ur chatting... Source(s):
Instructions. Yahoo! Messenger currently has a feature to join a chat room. This is done by left-clicking 'Messenger' on the top menu bar. Left-click on the menu item 'Yahoo! Chat'. A sub-menu will open. Click on 'Join a Room...'. When the 'Join Room' window pops-up, select a category, then a room. When you found the room you want to join, click the button labeled, 'Go to Room'. In this example, I chose Yahoo! Chat Help. This article title mentions creating a chat room group
Conference Invitation on Yahoo! Messenger. In the next screenshot, you can see how the invitation to a chat room looks like. Yahoo! Messenger shows the host, his message for invitation and several buttons. Agree to join the conversation. Decline if you do not want to chat in this group, or simply close the window. However, if you want to create a chat room with your friends, you will find info on that in our review. As any other service of instant messaging, Yahoo! Messenger allows you to create: 1  a video chat; 2  a voice chat;
Next. There is no icon for chat groups in my messenger i dont know how to join other groups to chat with ppl other than my contacts. can anyone help me plz. 
Click the 'Sign In' link and enter your username and password in the fields provided. Click on 'Groups' in the list of services on the Yahoo home page. Select a chat room that sounds like one you'd like to join by clicking on its name. Enter the chat room by clicking on the 'Join This Group' link. You will be taken to a page where you'll need to enter some brief information before joining. 
Best Answer: It's really a simple procedure. I explained it in detail. 1) Sign in with your account in Yahoo Messenger. 2) Go to the Menu Bar. 3) Click Messenger. A drop down Menu will open 4) Click Join Room. 5) A New Window will be Open. Select the Chat Rooms from this Window. 6) Select the Chat Channel. 7) A New Window will open. Click Enter for this Window. 8) A New Window will Open. 
Start a group chat. 1  Start a chat with a single person in your Chat list. 2  Once you've started the chat, at the top of the chat window, click the add person icon. 3  In the field labeled Add people to this chat, enter the names of the contacts you want to add to your group chat. 