The jewels of Italian food: Parmesan and Grana Padano cheese. The main reason I moved to the UK was to learn English. I could not get a decent job in Italy without a good grasp of the English language. So I left to work as an au pair (then love fatally took hold of me and these days I am still living in the UK!). Silage, fed to cows for Grana production, is a fermented forage that requires the addition of a natural preservative (called lysozyme). This is the main reason why I prefer Parmesan, apart from a slight difference in taste. Parmesan is a very rich cheese you will normally use for grating over pasta dishes and soups.
Like Grana Padano, cooking semi-fat cow’s milk produces Parmigiano-Reggiano in its earliest stage. The product is then immersed in a salty solution for 20 days. After brining, the wheels are left to age for an average of two years. Parmigiano-Reggiano is characterized by its sharp, nutty flavour and grainy texture. The primary difference between it and the Grana Padano is a more robust flavour and, of course, its place of origin. ASIAGO. As with Grana Padano and Parmigiano-Reggiano, Asiago owes its name to its homeland. GRANA PADANO. Grana Padano is a type of aged Italian cow’s cheese produced exclusively in the Pianura Padana valley. Cistercian monks living in Chiaravalle Abbey near Milan created this variety of cheese nearly 900 years ago, and since then Grana Padano has become one of Italy’s most popular cheeses.
Cheese is sliced at DiPalo's in Little Italy. Many people think that the massive wheels of Grana Padano, the semi-aged hard Italian cheese, are maybe a cheaper knock-off of better known Parmigiana-Reggiano, says Lou DiPalo, part of the fourth generation to run DiPalo's Fine Foods in Little Italy. In Italian, Grana is the word for grain, and it's actually the word for a type of cheese whose tiny crags and crannies look a little like specks of grain, he says. So Parmigiano-Reggiano, says DiPalo, is actually a type of grano. The flavor differences stem from two big differences between the two: First, says DiPalo, Grana Padano is made only with partially skimmed milk, while Parmigiano is made from a mix of whole and skimmed milk
While the Grana Padano does have many similarities to the Parmigiano Reggiano, the differences are essential to the flavor and texture, the first one being the place of production. 1 Grana Padano is made from both skim and whole milk while the Parmigiano Reggiano is made only from skim milk. 2  The Cows have different diets – the Grana Padano cows are less restricted in their diet and are allowed to eat silage in their feed while the Parmigiano Reggiano cows must be fed fresh or dried vegetable matter.
So, what is the difference between Parmesan Cheese and Parmigiano Reggiano? The difference between these cheeses is that Parmigiano Reggiano cheese is the real deal, and Parmesan cheese is an imitation of the real Parmigiano Reggiano.
Many of us often believe that the Grana Padano is a lesser quality Parmigiano Reggiano and some even believe that it is called Parmigiano Padano, that is not the case, at least not if we are referring to the authentic product, imported from the specific Provinces and regions of the Grana Padano D.O.P. 1 Grana Padano is made from both skim and whole milk while the Parmigiano Reggiano is made only from skim milk. 2  The Cows have different diets – the Grana Padano cows are less restricted in their diet and are allowed to eat silage in their feed while the Parmigiano Reggiano cows must be fed fresh or dried vegetable matter.
The Grana Padano is produced in a much wider area than the Parmigiano Reggiano in the regions of: Emilia-Romagna, Lombardy, Piedmont, Trentino and Veneto (keep in mind that the Regions are much larger than the provinces, therefore a larger area of production). 1 Grana Padano is made from both skim and whole milk while the Parmigiano Reggiano is made only from skim milk. 2  The Cows have different diets – the Grana Padano cows are less restricted in their diet and are allowed to eat silage in their feed while the Parmigiano Reggiano cows must be fed fresh or dried vegetable matter.
What is the Difference Between Parmesan and Parmigiano-Reggiano? Answer: Parmesan is the English and American translation of the Italian word Parmigiano-Reggiano. There is also evidence that in the 17th to 19th centuries Parmigiano-Reggiano was called Parmesan in Italy and France. You be the judge. Buy both and taste them side by side. Within Italy, cheeses like Parmigiano-Reggiano are called Grana, which means granular and refers to a texture well-suited for grating. Many of these cheeses are delicious in their own right. An example is the cheese Grana Padano.