Revisiting a wetland delineation that is five or more years old does not necessarily mean that a new wetland delineation needs to be done. It means that it may be necessary to revisit the site to determine whether the delineation is still accurate or whether it needs to be redone based on current conditions.
If the Corps determines that a wetland is not subject to the CWA, the wetland may still be a water of the state and subject to regulation by Ecology as well as by local jurisdictions. Ecology regulates wetlands determined by the Corps to be non-jurisdictional due to their isolation from navigable waters.
1 The Corps' 1987 wetland delineation manual has a requirement for comprehensive determinations to quantitatively describe the vegetation in the past 5 years (page 41, Step 5).
The Corps uses three characteristics of wetlands when making wetland determinations: vegetation, soil, and hydrology. Unless an area has been altered or is a rare natural situation, wetland indicators of all three characteristics must be present during some portion of the growing season for an area to be a wetland.
Wetland delineation is also an element of a “ jurisdictional determination .” This process identifies which water bodies within a project's boundaries meet the definition of waters of the United States..
The term “delineation” has a very specific meaning when used in the context of the the Wetlands Protection Act and the permitting process. This policy statement from the Department of Environmental Protection is offered here as an indication of the kinds of considerations that go into a wetland delineation.
Wetland delineations are conducted in accordance with the 1987 Corps of Engineers Wetland Delineation Manual and Regional Supplements. This approach requires positive evidence of hydrophytic vegetation, hydric soils and wetland hydrology for a determination that an area is considered wetland.
The term wetland “delineation” is usually used to refer to determination of precise. boundaries on the ground through field surveys. A wetland delineator uses the wetland. regulatory definition and any supplementary criteria. A delineator uses wetland maps.
Wetland delineation establishes the existence (location) and physical limits (size) of a wetland for the purposes of federal, state, and local regulations.