Measles is a very contagious (easily spread) infection that causes a rash all over your body. It is also called rubeola or red measles. The measles vaccine protects against the illness. This vaccine is part of the MMR (measles, mumps, and rubella) and MMRV (measles, mumps, rubella, and varicella [chickenpox]) vaccines. Most children get the vaccine as part of their regular shots.
There are actually two kinds of measles and they are caused by completely different viruses. When people think of measles they are usually thinking about the disease called red measles, or hard measles. It is caused by the rubeola virus. It produces both a fever and a rash and typically lasts 7 to 12 days. It is commonly just called measles. German measles is caused by the rubella virus. Symptoms of the measles appear after an incubation period of 10-14 days (from time of exposure to symptoms). Immediately before the measles rash appears, patients often experiences a mild to moderate fever, very runny nose, cough and conjunctivitis with light sensitivity.
People who catch the measles develop symptoms like a fever, cough, runny nose, and the telltale rash that is the hallmark of the disease. If measles isn’t treated, it can lead to complications like ear infection, pneumonia, and encephalitis (inflammation of the brain). Other Infections with Rashes. Rubeola (measles) is often confused with roseola and rubella (German measles), but these three conditions are different. Measles produces a splotchy reddish rash that spreads from head to foot. Roseola is a condition that affects infants and toddlers.
Mouth of a patient with Koplik spots, an early sign of measles infection. Three to five days after symptoms begin, a rash breaks out. It usually begins as flat red spots that appear on the face at the hairline and spread downward to the neck, trunk, arms, legs, and feet. Small raised bumps may also appear on top of the flat red spots. The symptoms of measles generally appear about seven to 14 days after a person is infected. Measles typically begins with. 1  high fever, 2  cough, 3  runny nose (coryza), and. 4  red, watery eyes (conjunctivitis).
The first symptoms of measles are like a bad cold-a high fever, a runny nose, sneezing, a sore throat, and a hacking cough. The lymph nodes in your neck may swell. You also may feel very tired and have diarrhea and red, sore eyes.t is also called rubeola or red measles. The measles vaccine protects against the illness. This vaccine is part of the MMR (measles, mumps, and rubella) and MMRV (measles, mumps, rubella, and varicella [chickenpox]) vaccines. Most children get the vaccine as part of their regular shots.
The typical time from exposure to a person infected with measles to development of the initial symptoms (incubation period) is 10-12 days (the range is seven to 21 days). The rash occurs a few days after the initial symptoms (ranges from seven to 18 days from exposure). Medically Reviewed by a Doctor on 2/6/2015. 
Measles is caused by a type of virus called a paramyxovirus. When someone who has the virus sneezes or coughs, tiny droplets containing the virus spray into the air. The droplets stay active for two hours in the air or on a surface. 
Measles: An acute and highly contagious viral disease characterized by fever, runny nose, cough, red eyes, and a spreading skin rash. Measles, also known as rubeola, is a potentially disastrous disease. 
Measles, also known as morbilli, rubeola, or red measles, is a highly contagious infection caused by the measles virus. Initial signs and symptoms typically include fever, often greater than 40 °C (104.0 °F), cough, runny nose, and red eyes. 