You need to apply for an ESTA if you are traveling to the US under the VWP to either: 1) Transit through the US, or 2) stay for up to 90 days as a tourist or for business that does not require a visa. You can see a list of countries eligible for the VWP below. If your ESTA application is denied after being submitted to the electronic system for travel authorization, it is our suggestion that you apply for a non-immigrant B-2 visitor visa at a U.S. embassy or consulate.
ESTA is not a visa. It does not meet the legal requirements to serve in lieu of a U.S. visa when a visa is required. Travelers that possess a valid U.S. visa may travel to the United States on that visa for the purpose it was issued. Travelers traveling on valid visas are not required to apply for an ESTA. In the same way that a valid visa does not guarantee admission to the United States, an approved ESTA is not a guarantee of admission to the United States. ESTA became mandatory January 12, 2009. 1 The fee is US $4.00. 2  Authorization charge -- If your application is approved and you receive authorization to travel to the United States under the Visa Waiver Program, an additional US $10.00 will be charged to your credit card.
1 Authorization charge -- If your application is approved and you receive authorization to travel to the United States under the Visa Waiver Program, an additional US $10.00 will be charged to your credit card. 2  If your electronic travel authorization is denied, you are only charged for the processing of your application. 1 The fee is US $4.00. 2  Authorization charge -- If your application is approved and you receive authorization to travel to the United States under the Visa Waiver Program, an additional US $10.00 will be charged to your credit card.
The Visa Waiver Program is a program that enables citizens of 35 participating countries to travel to the United States for stays of 90 days or less without a visa. It is not required to update your new travel details in ESTA, it is optional. ESTA approval is valid for two years from the date of issue. If you have lost your application number you are still eligible to enter the US.
No. ESTA Travel Authorization is only for individuals who enter the United States with a passport from a Visa Waiver Country. If you are not from a Visa Waiver Country, you must apply for a U.S. Visitor Visa first. Contact us for more information on how to apply for a U.S. visa. Below you will find answers to many common questions regarding ESTA and traveling to the United States under the Visa Waiver Program. No. A Travel Authorization is only necessary for a visitor traveling on the Visa Waiver Program. It is only a travel requirement. A visa must be obtained in advance by individuals not eligible to enter on the Visa Waiver Program. If you already hold a valid U.S. visitor visa, you should not apply for ESTA.
United States ESTA Travel Authorization Service Provider. All travellers from Visa Waiver Program (VWP) countries who whish travel to USA must have a valid ESTA (Electronic System for Travel Authorisation). It is not required to update your new travel details in ESTA, it is optional. ESTA approval is valid for two years from the date of issue. If you have lost your application number you are still eligible to enter the US.
You may use your visa to travel to the United States until the date it expires. However, if your visa says that it is valid indefinitely, you should apply for a new visa, or travel under the Visa Waiver Program (VWP) if eligible as all indefinitely-valid visas are now obsolete. See further down this page. The B-2 visa is only valid for travel to the United States for a temporary visit for pleasure. For a visit for business purposes you need a classification B-1 visa. To apply for such a visa, please follow the instructions.
An ESTA authorization is valid for two years, pre-approving you for any trips of 90 days or less to the US during that time. ESTA is only valid for the specific passport it was issued for, which means you do have to reapply if your passport is lost, stolen, or expires within this two-year period. If your ESTA application is denied after being submitted to the electronic system for travel authorization, it is our suggestion that you apply for a non-immigrant B-2 visitor visa at a U.S. embassy or consulate.
ESTA is not a visa. It does not meet the legal requirements to serve in lieu of a U.S. visa when a visa is required. Travelers that possess a valid U.S. visa may travel to the United States on that visa for the purpose it was issued. Travelers traveling on valid visas are not required to apply for an ESTA. In the same way that a valid visa does not guarantee admission to the United States, an approved ESTA is not a guarantee of admission to the United States. ESTA became mandatory January 12, 2009. Approved ESTA applications are valid for a period of two years, or until the passport expires, whichever comes first, and multiple trips to the United States without the traveler having to re-apply for another ESTA.