The Bengal Cat is a hybrid breed of domestic cat developed by selective breeding and interspecific breeding to evoke the feline denizens of the jungle such as leopards, ocelots, margays and clouded leopards. Bengal cats have wild-looking markings, such as large spots, rosettes, and a light/white belly, and a body structure reminiscent of the leopard cat. A Bengal's rosetted spots occur only on the back and sides, with stripes elsewhere.
Bengal Breed Profile. The Bengal cat breed began in 1963, and they are descended from crossing the wild cat known as the Asian Leopard Cat, (a small, forest-dwelling cat found in Asia and India), and domestic shorthair cats such as Abyssinians, American Shorthairs, Burmese or Egyptian Maus. 
The name Bengal cat was derived from the taxonomic name of the Asian leopard cat (P. b. bengalensis). They have a wild appearance with large spots, rosettes, and a light/white belly, and a body structure reminiscent of the ALC. Bengal cats have wild-looking markings, such as large spots, rosettes, and a light/white belly, and a body structure reminiscent of the leopard cat. A Bengal's rosetted spots occur only on the back and sides, with stripes elsewhere.
A product of cross-breeding domestic shorthairs with wild Asian Leopard cats, the Bengal was developed to resemble the cosmetic characteristics of the wild cat and is often called a Leopard Kitten. However, Bengals are wild only in looks, not in personality. 
The Bengal began as a hybrid breed, created by crossing the Asian Leopard Cat with the domestic cat. The first “pet leopard” is traced back to Japan in the early 1940s, but the first appearance of Bengals in the United States was in the 1970s. Coveted for its wildcat exotic looks, the Bengal prowls like a small leopard with its sleek, muscular body, oval eyes, broad nose, strong chin and wedge-shaped head. Its hind legs are slightly longer than the front legs, yielding a “stalking-like” gait.
The Bengal breed has an interesting history. It starts with the Asian Leopard Cat. The leopard cat is a small wild cat found throughout the forests and jungle areas of Asia (hence the name Asian Leopard Cat or ALC) . There are many subspecies of the leopard cat. 
A Bengal is an exotic or hybrid cat breed that has been developed by breeding an Asian Leopard Cat (Felis bengalensis-which is where the name Bengal was derived) with a domestic house cat such as an Abyssinian, Egyptian Mau, or the American Shorthair. 
Bengal. The wild look of the Bengal cat comes from its origin, the Asian leopard cat bred with a domestic shorthair. The result is a smart, lively and intelligent cat with a wild look. 03:11. Related Videos. Cats 101 Bengal The wild look of the Bengal cat comes from its origin, the Asian leopard cat bred with a domestic shorthair. The result is a smart, lively and intelligent cat with a wild look. 03:11.
Bengal Cats were developed by the selective breeding of domestic cats with the Asian leopard cat (ALC), Prionailurus bengalensis, with the goal of creating a confident, healthy and friendly cat with a highly contrasted and vividly marked coat. Bengal cats have wild-looking markings, such as large spots, rosettes, and a light/white belly, and a body structure reminiscent of the leopard cat. A Bengal's rosetted spots occur only on the back and sides, with stripes elsewhere.