That sound like reason to celebrate, but there’s some bad news, too (at least, if you’re looking to sell your business): A major reason for the increase in business sales is that prices are dropping. The average sale price as a multiple of both revenue and cash flow decreased compared with the same period last year. And if you want to do that, you’d best get started on the sale process soon before time runs out. Of course, you shouldn’t let a deadline push you to sell your business before you’re ready—but if you’ve been waiting to sell until you could get a better price, that time just might be now.
When interest rates are low and house prices are on the rise, buyers commit rather than browse and average time on the market decreases. Even if mortgage prices are moderately high, rising house prices can make for a seller’s market if housing is not plentiful. If, however, an oversupply of housing exists, interest rates are high and prices are steady, the average time might lengthen to as much as a year. Market Absorption Rate. Barring such events as discovery of radon deposits or recognition of an area as a landmark district, the confluence of the market, the season and the economy determine the average length of time it takes to sell a house.
1. Get your books in order. A recent Citibank Small Business Pulse report found that 25 percent of small-business owners expect to sell their company to a competitor or third party as an eventual exit strategy. Of course, the market for any small business can be unpredictable, so owners shouldn't sell just because there's momentum now, say experts. There need to be other compelling reasons to put a business on the market, whether that's the desire to move on to a new venture or to slow down.
The median sale price for small businesses in Q3 of 2013 was $180,000—up 2.9 percent from the same time the previous year, though a little below the median asking price of $199,000. On average, selling prices were equal to 2.19 percent of cash flow. Of course, the market for any small business can be unpredictable, so owners shouldn't sell just because there's momentum now, say experts. There need to be other compelling reasons to put a business on the market, whether that's the desire to move on to a new venture or to slow down.
Home. THE average time it takes to sell a house has fallen to eight months from 10 at the start of the year with prices expected to plunge 12% this year. There are now around 60,000 properties on the market, up from 20,000 at the peak of the housing boom. According to the latest report from property website Daft.ie, the average time to sell in Dublin is four months, which is similar to late 2008. However, in Munster, the duration is 10 months compared to a year in Connacht and Ulster. In Munster it took around five months to sell a property in 2008
Only 28 percent reported that it took six months or less from listing to sale. Nine months, or longer, to sell a business  that’s hard to believe! Our last survey, conducted in 2006, stated that the average time between listing and sale was 7.9 months. At this rate, it won’t be long before it takes a year, or probably longer, to sell a business. Our survey also reported that the average listing period was 10.7 months. It seems to us that the way these time periods are increasing, listing periods are going to have to be at least a year or more. In fact, it wouldn’t surprise us if not too long from now, business brokers will have to take lifetime listings. A seller is usually most anxious to sell right after offering it for sale. One way to speed up the activity is for business brokers to have to tell the owner of a small business, who has a pressing need to sell, that it is going to take nine months or more to sell it.
The average time on the market for around 82% of businesses is four to 12 months. Fewer than 10% of businesses sell more quickly, and a little over 8% are on the market for more than 12 months. A library of articles about the process of selling and buying a business -- and the issues that affect business acquisitions in the marketplace. -- The Best Library of Articles about how to sell your business..... The New York Time