Bloating or fullness, Distended stomach and Weight gain. WebMD Symptom Checker helps you find the most common medical conditions indicated by the symptoms bloating or fullness, distended stomach and weight gain including Gas pains, Irritable bowel syndrome, and Congestive heart failure.
Abdominal bloating and constipation can cause 'sick fat' slowing your metabolism causing weight gain. Establishing hormonal imbalances is the first step finding a cure for abdominal bloating and irritable bowel syndrome. 1  Hypothyroidism. 2  PMS. 3  Poly Cystic Ovarian Disorder. 4  Menopause. 5  Fibroids. 6  Cysts. 7  Endometriosis. 
Causes of Bloating and Weight Gain. Treatment. If you suffer from chronic bloating that is accompanied by other symptoms like weight gain, you should consult the doctor immediately. All the above mentioned causes of these symptoms can be treated with medications or making changes in lifestyle. It causes a lot of discomfort and also makes the person irritable. It is a common symptom of conditions like irritable bowel syndrome, constipation, etc. However, bloated stomach and weight gain, together, is a rare symptom observed only in case of certain health conditions.
Cushing's Syndrome. Weight gain is a common symptom of Cushing's syndrome, a condition in which you are exposed to too much of the stress hormone cortisol, which in turn causes weight gain and other abnormalities. You can get Cushing's syndrome if you take steroids for asthma, arthritis, or lupus. Anti-inflammatory steroid medications like prednisone are notorious for causing weight gain. Fluid retention and increased appetite are the main reasons. Some people may also see a temporary change in where their body holds fat while taking steroids -- to places like the face, the belly, or the back of the neck.
If so, you are not alone.Difficult weight gain in the stomach, belly, waist, hips and thighs can be nearly impossible to lose unless you can properly identify the underlying factor(s) that is causing the weight gain. This isn't always easy because there are so many potential causes of weight gain. For some, the cause of weight gain could simply be lack of exercise or excess calories in the diet. But those are the easy cases to solve. A simple diet and exercise log is all I need to correct a poor diet or improper exercise. But for you, the cause of weight gain could be something hidden deep in your metabolism-something that is preventing you from losing weight no matter how hard you try. And often, the harder you try, the more weight you gain
Other medications used for digestive conditions may make it more difficult to lose weight or cause someone to gain weight. These include the SSRIs and the tricyclic antidepressant medications (amitriptyline, nortriptyline, desipramine) used in irritable bowel syndrome or hormones used for endometriosis. Digestive conditions such as Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis are often treated with steroids; steroid use can cause weight gain. Also, patients with GERD (gastroesophageal reflux disease) or PUD (peptic ulcer disease) often feel better when there is food in their stomach to soak up excess acid.
In some cases though, rapid abdominal weight gain can actually be a sign of an underlying medical condition. While hormonal disorders can be culprits, other conditions including liver disease and ovarian tumors may cause abdominal bloating and weight gain as well. 3D rendering of the human liver. Photo Credit satellitesixty/iStock/Getty Images. End-stage liver disease, or liver failure, can also cause rapid, abdominal weight gain. Liver failure may be due to a number of conditions including hepatitis and alcohol abuse. As liver function deteriorates, fluid called ascites accumulates in the belly
1 These symptoms are common and are usually not a matter of concern. 2  Constipation: Constipation is a condition when one does not pass stools regularly or has difficulty in passing stools due to their hard nature. 3  Pain in stomach, bloating, nausea, weight gain, cramps, etc., are the symptoms of constipation. It causes a lot of discomfort and also makes the person irritable. It is a common symptom of conditions like irritable bowel syndrome, constipation, etc. However, bloated stomach and weight gain, together, is a rare symptom observed only in case of certain health conditions.