1 Clinical Psychologist: Doctorate Degree in Psychology (4 to 7 years of graduate school). 2  Industrial-Organizational Psychologist: Master’s Degree (2 to 3 years of graduate school). 3  Forensic Psychologist: Master’s Degree (2 to 3 years of graduate school); a doctoral degree is recommended.
The answer really depends on the profession as well as the specialty you want to work in. For example, becoming a school psychologist can take a little as two years of graduate-level education, and only requires a master’s degree. On the other hand, if you want to become a child psychologist you will need to earn a doctorate degree, which can require up to seven additional years of psychologist schooling.
Confidence votes 110. A clinical psychologist holds a doctorate such as a Ph.D. or Psy.D. (Doctor of Psychology) and has a state license in order to practice. Clinically oriented programs are usually about 5 years in length (4 years of classes and 1 year of full time internship), post bachelor's degree, that is!
The Path to Becoming a Psychologist. First, you will need a bachelor's degree (4 to 5 years), which teaches the fundamentals of psychology. After that, you will need a master's degree (2 to 3 years), which can qualify you to practice in the field as a case manager, employment specialist, or social worker.
But here is a general timeline. First, you will need a bachelor's degree (4 to 5 years), which teaches the fundamentals of psychology. After that, you will need a master's degree (2 to 3 years), which can qualify you to practice in the field as a case manager, employment specialist, or social worker.
Degree, 4 years to get their Bach., 6 years to get their Mast. Degree and 8 years for their PHD. 4 years for a B.A or B.S degree, given the time dedicated toward the degree, it can be completed much sooner. 18 months to 2 years for your masters given your field of study.
Then, most state licensing boards require a doctorate (4 to 7 years). The type of doctoral degree you choose––either a Doctor of Psychology (PsyD) or Doctor of Philosophy in Psychology (PhD)––will depend on your career goals. Many states also require post-doctoral training equivalent to about 1 year of work.
1 Industrial-Organizational Psychologist: Master’s Degree (2 to 3 years of graduate school). 2  Forensic Psychologist: Master’s Degree (2 to 3 years of graduate school); a doctoral degree is recommended.