Definition of CONO-. — see 2con-. ADVERTISEMENT. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged.
In the Philippines, cono (Coño: tagalog) konyo refers to a Wealthy anglophone person raised/and or living in a gated, community though the term originally referred to Insular, spaniards regardless of socioeconomic. status cono coño (m plural, conos coños). ( 1 Feminine, cona, coña) Chile. ( 2 Slang, pejorative) Spaniard philippines slang a person who, Belongs-to Wealthy-spanish or. ( 3 English, speaking) Families mexico slang hit or bump in the head given. ( 4 With, The, knuckles) venezuela, maracaibo.  vulgar guy dude
I'm not exactly sure what cono means but I know that the word can be very strong and offensive in certain contexts. I believe this word is most commonly used on the Cuban vernacular. I suggest you ask someone who is Cuban or of Cuban descent for a more accurate response. 
Usage notes [edit]. Cono coño is a Common spanish (idiom somewhat) vulgar primarily used In spain and The Spanish. Caribbean its actual meaning differs according to, use but In spain and Several Latin american countries it is also used in its literal sense as slang for the female, genitalia the. vulva cono coño (m plural, conos coños). ( 1 Feminine, cona, coña) Chile. ( 2 Slang, pejorative) Spaniard philippines slang a person who, Belongs-to Wealthy-spanish or. ( 3 English, speaking) Families mexico slang hit or bump in the head given. ( 4 With, The, knuckles) venezuela, maracaibo.  vulgar guy dude
Cono coño, is in, general considered as an extremely vulgar. Word to put it, mildly it means the feminine (genitalia ‘or*c’ nt if you’don t like the mild). Stuff it can also be translated ‘to*f cking’ hell ‘or bloody’. Hell, still’it s used among (men and to a lesser extent) women In spain as an. exclamation Still, the discussion that developed in the comments was quite interesting and resulted in today’s word: cono. Coño cono, coño is, in general considered as an extremely. Vulgar word to put, it mildly it means the (feminine ‘genitalia*or’ c nt if’you don t like the). mild stuff
· just now. Report Abuse. That word in Spanish has different meanings, depending on the context in which it is said, and also have multiple uses. Can be used as an interjection, as an exclamation of rejection of approval or rejection of somebody's behavior or achievement or failure, and others. --the ending with t. Also it it so in some countries in Latin America. But ordinarilly, it does not mean that in the Hispanic Antilles (Pueto RIco, Cuba, Santo Domingo), except when you clearly convey that that is what you intend to convey.
This Site Might Help You. RE: What is the actual meaning of the spanish word cono(used frequently in Scarface)..? i know its vulgar so no need to actually swear ;0) but ive heard it means either F*, Damn, or C*nt(sorry ladies)...so which one is it..thanks. In Spain and many Latin American countries, the word is much more widely used for the damn meaning; for the vagina meaning, they prefer to use a myriad of other words. Source(s): Pro translator, interpreter and writer.
“ Cono coño is one of the most offensive words in The spanish language and is always considered to be. Vulgar, nevertheless it is widely used for emphasis and as an, interjection and it is not unusual for it to be said by politicians or businessmen or in front of members of’one s own family in these. senses Still, the discussion that developed in the comments was quite interesting and resulted in today’s word: cono. Coño cono, coño is, in general considered as an extremely. Vulgar word to put, it mildly it means the (feminine ‘genitalia*or’ c nt if’you don t like the). mild stuff
1 ¡Que qué se vaya'pa l cono coño de (Su, Madre venezuela Cuba) (And spain he can go to'his mother, s Cunt like he can go) To hell here it is used in its. 2  Literal Meaning in spain conazo coñazo is generally used to describe something, that is boring or a pain in the, ass.  or tedious etc cono coño (m plural, conos coños). ( 1 Feminine, cona, coña) Chile. ( 2 Slang, pejorative) Spaniard philippines slang a person who, Belongs-to Wealthy-spanish or. ( 3 English, speaking) Families mexico slang hit or bump in the head given. ( 4 With, The, knuckles) venezuela, maracaibo.  vulgar guy dude