Although, perchlorate reducing bacteria can use wide variety of organic and inorganic e − donors, majority of them are unable to use carbohydrates, benzoate, catechol, glycerol, citrate, and benzene (Coates et al., 1999 and Shrout and Parkin, 2006). Phylogenetic understanding of dissimilatory perchlorate reducing bacteria is derived from both the “16S rDNA sequence”- (Coates et al., 1999 and Achenbach et al., 2001) and “chlorite dismutase gene (cld) sequence”-based homologies (Bender et al.
The most common use of perchlorate is in ammonium perchlorate, which is a major ingredient of rocket fuels. Perchlorate is also used to make flares, explosives, blasting agents, fireworks, and military munitions such as grenades. It is used to produce other chemicals, including perchloric acid and perchlorate salts. Perchlorate is a manufactured or naturally occurring colorless, odorless chemical that is most commonly used in rocket fuel. It comes in the form of crystals or powder. The chemical formula for perchlorate is ClO 4.
Microbe's perchlorate-eating ways. Other bacteria that can breathe and eat perchlorates use a two-step process involving specialized enzymes that turn perchlorate into chlorite which has two, rather than four, oxygen atoms and then separate the chlorite into chlorine and oxygen. Since A. fulgidus is an early-Earth organism, the researchers suspect that perchlorate was also around at that time and that the ability to metabolize it was part of an adaptation to all sorts of highly toxic chemicals, many of which are oxidizers.
Biological reduction exploits the diverse capabilities of ubiquitous dissimilatory perchlorate reducing bacteria for the complete destruction of perchlorate and several co-contaminants. Mixed or pure cultures of perchlorate reducing bacteria utilize nitrate, perchlorate, chlorate and O 2 as e − acceptors. Phylogenetic understanding of dissimilatory perchlorate reducing bacteria is derived from both the “16S rDNA sequence”- (Coates et al., 1999 and Achenbach et al., 2001) and “chlorite dismutase gene (cld) sequence”-based homologies (Bender et al.
A. fulgidus microbes, which are found in extremely hot hydrothermal vents, can use perchlorate, an ingredient in rocket fuel, for energy. | Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution. A. fulgidus microbes, which are found in extremely hot hydrothermal vents, can use perchlorate, an ingredient in rocket fuel, for energy. Since A. fulgidus is an early-Earth organism, the researchers suspect that perchlorate was also around at that time and that the ability to metabolize it was part of an adaptation to all sorts of highly toxic chemicals, many of which are oxidizers.
So far, all microorganisms that are capable of perchlorate reduction can alternatively use chlorate; however, the same is not necessarily true of chlorate-reducing bacteria, and there are now several chlorate-reducing microorganisms in pure culture that are incapable of the reductive respiration of perchlorate. 
An ancient form of life can use an ingredient in rocket fuel for energy, suggesting creatures with this odd ability are more diverse than anyone thought. The new discovery might offer insight into the history of life on the early Earth, and the evolution of metabolisms like ours that use reactive chemicals like oxygen. Since A. fulgidus is an early-Earth organism, the researchers suspect that perchlorate was also around at that time and that the ability to metabolize it was part of an adaptation to all sorts of highly toxic chemicals, many of which are oxidizers.
Among the dissimilatory perchlorate reducing bacteria, D. agitata strain CKB is the only perchlorate reducing bacterium that cannot grow by nitrate reduction because nitrite accumulates in the system. A single perchlorate reductase is believed to catalyze reduction of both nitrate and perchlorate in this strain. Phylogenetic understanding of dissimilatory perchlorate reducing bacteria is derived from both the “16S rDNA sequence”- (Coates et al., 1999 and Achenbach et al., 2001) and “chlorite dismutase gene (cld) sequence”-based homologies (Bender et al.
Credit: NASA/JPL-Caltech. There's a problem on the surface of Mars, and its name is perchlorate. If humans want to colonize the Red Planet one day, as NASA hopes to do sometime in the next century, this naturally occurring thyroid disruptor and additive of rocket fuel may pose problems for human health. 