The linchpin for this new strategy was to be the “matricula consular,” an official identity card issued by the Mexican government, which it wanted to be officially recognized within the United States. This Backgrounder is the first detailed examination of the matricula issue. Matricula not Secure. Mexico is not authenticating breeder documents. For an identity card to be secure, the “breeder” documents provided must be authenticated to guard against identity fraud. Safeguards must also be in place to ensure that the goal of one person, one identity, one card is met.
[xiv] In Mexicago.. See author's credit above. The matricula consular is an identification card issued by a Mexican consulate. It is designed to be used by illegal immigrants[i]. With this card they can receive federal, state, and local benefits. The ID card is little-known outside the Hispanic community.
By Michael Bargo Jr. The matricula consular is an identification card issued by a Mexican consulate. It is designed to be used by illegal immigrants[i]. With this card they can receive federal, state, and local benefits. The ID card is little-known outside the Hispanic community. See author's credit above
The matricula card is not a secure document. Mexico does not authenticate documents used to obtain the ID against computerized data files in Mexico. No major bank in Mexico accepts the card to open an account and the cards are recognized as IDs in only 10 of Mexico's 32 states and districts. Issue theme: Immigration and economics: an interview with Cornell University Labor Economist Vernon M. Briggs, Jr.. Email this article Printer friendly page Articles by this author View original PDF format. The Mexican Matricula Consular ID card is an ID card issued to Mexican foreign nationals in the United States. The matricula consular is useful in the United States only for illegal aliens, because legal immigrants by definition have legal U.S. government-issued documents. After 9/11, the Mexican Government realized that they could not gain another U.S. amnesty for illegal alien
The Mexican Matricula Consular ID card is an ID card issued to Mexican foreign nationals in the United States. The matricula consular is useful in the United States only for illegal aliens, because legal immigrants by definition have legal U.S. government-issued documents. After 9/11, the Mexican Government realized that they could not gain another U.S. amnesty for illegal alien
Informed stakeholder in the legalization of same-sex marriage. A matricula consular is a government-issued photo ID card issued to Mexican citizens living outside of Mexico. It is issued by the Mexican government at its consular offices abroad. It shows the address of the foreign residence of the bearer, regardless of whether the person has legal immigration status. 
Use in the United States [edit]. Several U.S. states, municipalities, and businesses accept the Matricula Consular as an official form of identification. Two million Mexican CIDs were issued in 2002-2003. A number of countries have followed suit including Guatemala, Brazil, and Ecuador. 
First off, the official definition for the card is this... The Matricula Consular de Alta Seguridad (MCAS) (Consular Identification Card) is an identification card issued by the Government of Mexico through its consulate offices to Mexican nationals residing outside of Mexico regardless of their emigration status. 