Typically, dry food contains about 300 calories per cup, and canned food contains about 250 calories in each 6 oz can. (or, 125 per 3-ounce can). Using these counts as a guide, an 8-pound cat would need 4/5 of a cup of dry food or just less than a full 6-oz can (or two 3-ounce cans) of wet food per day. If you’re free feeding dry food, each day measure out the day’s allotment of food into your dry food feeder. This decreases the amount of food that gets stale and needs to be discarded. It will also help you monitor how much your cats are eating. If you have to take a thin cat to the vet, it will help in the diagnosis if you can identify exactly how much she eats per day. Portioning out the food will keep your cats from overeating. Free choice feeding is one of the top contributors to feline obesit
How Much To Feed Your Cat. According to the Animal Medical Center in New York, a healthy, active 8-pound adult cat requires about 30 calories per pound per day. So, the average 8-pound cat requires about 240 calories per day. If you’re free feeding dry food, each day measure out the day’s allotment of food into your dry food feeder. This decreases the amount of food that gets stale and needs to be discarded. It will also help you monitor how much your cats are eating. If you have to take a thin cat to the vet, it will help in the diagnosis if you can identify exactly how much she eats per day. Portioning out the food will keep your cats from overeating. Free choice feeding is one of the top contributors to feline obesit
Because these foods contain less filler, your cat absorbs more of the food consumed as nutrients, so less is passed as waste. (see website for full details) Ideally, a cat that is one years young who is active should eat about 1/2 cup a day in total.
From four to six months, feed her about 2/3 of a 3-oz. can per pound of body weight per day, and from six months to a year, about half a 3-oz. can per pound per day. Catster reports that a healthy, active 8-lb. adult cat should consume about 30 calories per pound per day, or about 240 calories per day. On average, dry food contains about 300 calories per cup, and canned food has about 125 calories per 3 ounces. So, an 8-lb. cat needs about 4/5 cup dry food or just under 6 ounces of canned food per day.
Therefore, our kitty should be eating 0.52 cups per day. Dry food typically contains about 10% water so 0.52 cups of food would provide 0.052 cups of water or 12.3 mls. Subtracting that from our 261 mls per day leaves us with 249 mls (or about one cup) of water that the cat needs to drink from a bowl per day. I’d like to take a look at this question in a couple of different ways. First, I used a well-regarded “calculator” to determine how much water a 10 pound, adult neutered dog and cat should take in per day. The results were: Dog: 348 +/- 70 mls/day. Cat: 261 +/- 52 mls/day.
According to Catster, a 6-ounce can of cat food contains approximately 250 calories, while a cup of dry cat food contains about 300 calories, either of which would satisfy a typical 8- to 10-pound cat for a day. Divide your cat's portions into two meals each day or free-feed your cat with his portion of dry kibble. According to the National Research Council of the National Academies, a 5-pound adult cat requires 180 calories per day, a 10-pound cat needs 280 calories, a 15-pound cat needs 360 calories and a 20-pound cat requires 440 calories each day. These numbers are based on a domestic cat that isn't pregnant or nursing.
So long as your cat eats about 1/2 -3/4 cup a day that's fine. The healthier the cat food the less it will feel the need to eat since most of the commercial cat foods found in grocery stores and bigger chain pet stores contain corn or corn meal cats will eat more than is required. (see website for full details) Ideally, a cat that is one years young who is active should eat about 1/2 cup a day in total.
Even though you find feeding instructions on almost every bag of cat food you can buy, the instructions are useless. One brand may tell you to feed your cat 1/2 cup twice daily, while another recommends 1/4 cup three times daily. It's not just the manufacturers of cat food that can't tell you how much to feed your cat. It's anyone, including your veterinarian, your best friend or me. Sometimes the cat owner tells me it says 1/2 cup while the obese cat I'm examining only eats 1/4 cup each day and is still obese. Sometimes it says 1/4 cup when the slender kitty that is my next appointment eats one whole cup a day and is still very thin.
How much food should a cat eat per day? I have a cat that is about one years old. I bought an automatic feeder for her, and it hold 2 lbs of food.....I have to refill it about every week. (see website for full details) Ideally, a cat that is one years young who is active should eat about 1/2 cup a day in total.