If your golf shafts are too stiff for your swing speed you won’t be able to get them to bend in the downswing and won’t be able to take advantage of the added yards from the kick. If your golf club shafts are too soft for your swing speed you will get too much flex in your downswing. 1 Stiff (S): Stiff golf shafts are used by low handicappers who have a fast swing speed but not fast enough to get an extra-stiff shaft to kick (club head speed of ~95-100 mph). 2  Regular (R): These shafts should be used by most amateur golfers. 3  They will kick with an average swing speed or around 80-90 mph
Generally a stiff shaft is good for golfers with higher swing speeds and weaker flexes are for golfers with slower swing speeds. However the flex of a shaft should be based on the amount of load you place on the shaft during your swing. A stiff shaft if you can verify that you swing fast enough to justify it. Go to a fancy golf store and get your swing measured as an excuse to pick the right club. You might be able to use a graphite or composite even with a fast swing.
If your swing speed is in that range of 80 to 95 mph and yet you can't drive the ball an average of 200 to 220 yards, there's a good chance your shafts are too stiff. 
Asker's rating. Report Abuse. A stiff shaft is more for someone with an above average swing speed. The idea is, with a faster swing speed, a regular or flexi shaft bends too much and you lose control of the shot (usually a slice). With an average swing speed, you'll be giving up a little bit of distance, but you might be more consistent with your shots. 
Swing Speed. A proper gauge for determining what shaft a golfer should use is swing speed. Swing speeds below 85 mph would be best for regular shafts while anything above would use stiff shafts. Using the proper shaft will help the golfer to have proper ball flight and increased distance.
The rule of thumb is; as the swing speed increases the shaft should be stiffer. A general guideline is that a swing speed of about 95 to 110 is eligible for an S-Flex (stiff shaft). From 110 to 120+ you can consider using an X-Flex (extra stiff) shaft. This is dependent on the golfer’s tempo and acceleration rates. I swing hard and fast. I’ve been on a swing monitor before but can’t remember the numbers. It was recommended to me that because of my swing speed I should use stiff flex shafts. However, at a recent demo day I grabbed a regular flex club by mistake.
I am 35 and have been playing golf for about 5 years. I swing hard and fast. I’ve been on a swing monitor before but can’t remember the numbers. It was recommended to me that because of my swing speed I should use stiff flex shafts. However, at a recent demo day I grabbed a regular flex club by mistake.
Increased Control. Stiff shafts are recommended for players who generate high club head speed. If your swing speed is 90 mph or higher, a stiff shaft or an x-stiff shaft should be a good fit. As Scott Hennessey, president of shaft manufacturer True Temper, told Golf.com, if your shafts are too flexible, you'll spray the ball all over the place.. 