I'm a mango lover and over a period of a week I've weighed mangoes and their seeds-conculsion: Average mango weight 200g Average mango seed weight 100g Seeds wer … e stripped clean of all pulp and weighed fresh. Hope this helps. How much can you weigh? some people can weigh up to 1,600 pounds some are skinney and may weigh 70 or 60 of course a baby weights 2 to 22 pounds. Perhaps you should have worded it 'How much shoukd I … weigh? my age is...and my gender is...' Cos you sorta need more info to answer your question.
1 For every 1,000 square feet, you will need from two to eight pounds of seed, depending on the blend. 2  For smaller bags that are less than three pounds, most bags are going to range anywhere from $10 to $40 per bag. 3  For instance, this bag of Scotts Turf Builder Quick Mix retails for $12. In addition, if you have children who love to play outdoors, a lush of green grass provides a cushion against bruises and bumps. Grass provides a great place to play. How much does it cost? 1  On average, plan on spending up to $3.50 per pound of grass seed or around $0.01 per square foot that needs to be covered.
If 5 lb of grass seed is needed to treat 1000 sq ft then 10 lb of grass seed will treat 2000 sq ft. How much can you weigh? some people can weigh up to 1,600 pounds some are skinney and may weigh 70 or 60 of course a baby weights 2 to 22 pounds. Perhaps you should have worded it 'How much shoukd I … weigh? my age is...and my gender is...' Cos you sorta need more info to answer your question.
Planting Seeds. Overall, the cost to seed a lawn will depend on the size of your lawn. That will determine how much work will need to happen and the cost of buying the fertilizer, mulch and seeds. This is still a cost-effective way of starting your lawn, however. 
1 On average, plan on spending up to $3.50 per pound of grass seed or around $0.01 per square foot that needs to be covered. 2  It will greatly depend on the type of grass seed you want. 3  For every 1,000 square feet, you will need from two to eight pounds of seed, depending on the blend. In addition, if you have children who love to play outdoors, a lush of green grass provides a cushion against bruises and bumps. Grass provides a great place to play. How much does it cost? 1 
but if this is like the good shit I smoked last night why does it have 2-3 seeds in it (3 grams of weed). I figured it was a good deal, the shit looked good, smelled good, and we weighed it on his scale. Was $30 for 3 grams. How much do seeds weigh on average, and do 1-3 seeds really take much out of the weight. I'm asking because I don't have a scale and I weighed the bag at his house and it was 3 grams. I don't want to go back to his house to try to weigh some seeds lol. Seeds weigh next to nothing, and unless there are tons of them, do not fret over seeds, especially in 3 grams of some dank weed. Consider yourself lucky. My town is going through a hell of a dry spout for good green. Any green you get around here right now you could grow a damn forest with.
Grass Seed Calculator. Since there's so much variation in coverage rates, you'll need to be sure to check the instructions on the seed you're buying to make sure you have enough. Some products require a pound for every 200 square feet of lawn; others will cover 1,000 square feet with just one pound of seed. Most coverage is expressed in a range, such as 350 to 500 square feet per pound (or about 2 to 3 pounds per 1,000 square feet). Always use the rate that provides the heaviest coverage if you're seeding a new lawn, and the lower rate if you're overseeding an existing lawn. This calculator will estimate how much seed you'll need assuming a coverage rate of 400 square feet to the pound, where a 5-pound bag will cover a 2,000-square-foot area. If you're buying a seed that covers less or more, you can change the coverage rate. 1  Share
1 It will greatly depend on the type of grass seed you want. 2  For every 1,000 square feet, you will need from two to eight pounds of seed, depending on the blend. 3  For smaller bags that are less than three pounds, most bags are going to range anywhere from $10 to $40 per bag. In addition, if you have children who love to play outdoors, a lush of green grass provides a cushion against bruises and bumps. Grass provides a great place to play. How much does it cost? 1  On average, plan on spending up to $3.50 per pound of grass seed or around $0.01 per square foot that needs to be covered.
Overview. Figuring out how much grass seed to plant is one of the last decisions you need to make before seeding your new lawn---or over-seeding an old one. Fall is the best time to plant but if you must start in the spring, prepare the topsoil but don't plant until all soil has warmed to 60 degrees Fahrenheit. 