Petal: The parts of a flower that are often conspicuously colored. Stamen: The pollen producing part of a flower, usually with a slender filament supporting the anther. Anther: The part of the stamen where pollen is produced. Pistil: The ovule producing part of a flower. The ovary often supports a long style, topped by a stigma. The mature ovary is a fruit, and the mature ovule is a seed. Stigma: The part of the pistil where pollen germinates
The Pistil. In plants that reproduce by flowering (angiosperms), the pistil is the female reproductive portion (the gynoecium) of the flower. 
The pistil is a flower's female organ. Pistils are typically located in the center of the flower and are surrounded by petals, sepals and stamens. Some flowers, such as the sweet pea, have one simple pistil, while others, including larkspur, have more than five pistils. Flower pistils consist of three parts: the ovary, the style and the stigma.
The pistil is the collective term for the female reproductive structures in the flower-The Stigma, Style, Ovary and Ovule. Pistil or the female reproduction structure is the innermost whorl, located in the center of the flower. Often vase-shaped, the pistil consists of three parts: the stigma, the … style and the ovary.
Noun. 1. pistil-the female ovule-bearing part of a flower composed of ovary and style and stigma. blossom, flower, bloom-reproductive organ of angiosperm plants especially one having showy or colorful parts. reproductive structure-the parts of a plant involved in its reproduction. simple pistil-consists of one carpel
Best Answer: The pistil's function is reproduction. The stigma, the head of the pistil, provides a place for pollen grains to land and germinate. The style, the long part of the pistil, provides protection for the pollen tube that emerges from the pollen grain and grows down the inside of the pistil into the ovary. 
Gynoecium (from Ancient Greek γυνή, gyne, meaning woman, and οἶκος, oikos, meaning house) is most commonly used as a collective term for the parts of a flower that produce ovules and ultimately develop into the fruit and seeds. The gynoecium is the innermost whorl of (one or more) pistils in a flower and is typically surrounded by the pollen-producing reproductive organs, the stamens, collectively called the androecium.
: the part in the center of a flower that is made up of the stigma, style, and ovary and produces the seed. Spanish Central: Spanish translation of pistil. 