Comments and insights on the name Constance: | Edit. I named my baby Constance as it's an old fashioned name, but really pretty and feminine (I'm not into the Androgynous names that everyone names their kids). We wanted to give her a name that didn't sound like everyone else like Aiden, Brayden, Caden, Addison, etc
Constance is a female given name that derives from Latin and means constant.. Variations of the name include Connie, Constancia, Constanze, Constanza, Stanzy, and Konstanze. Notable people with the name include: 1  Constance Bennett (1904–1965), American actress. 2  Constance Briscoe (born 1957), British barrister. 3  Constance Calenda (1415), Italian surgeon.
Constance /con-stan-ce/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced KAHN-stans. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Constance is constant, steadfast. Medieval form of Constantia used often in the early Christian and medieval eras, then by the Puritans (usually as Constant or Constancy). This was a popular name among the Normans, and was borne by the formidable Constance of Sicily (12th century), wife of the Emperor Henry VI. The name was also borne by the virgin saint daughter of Constantine the Great and a daughter of William the Conqueror.
Origin of the name Constance: English cognate of the French Constantia, which is derived from the Latin constans (standing together, constancy). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. I named my baby Constance as it's an old fashioned name, but really pretty and feminine (I'm not into the Androgynous names that everyone names their kids).
Constance is a very popular first name for women (#232 out of 4276, Top 5%) and also a very popular last name for both adults and children (#17627 out of 150436, Top 12%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Constance for girls. This was a popular name among the Normans, and was borne by the formidable Constance of Sicily (12th century), wife of the Emperor Henry VI. The name was also borne by the virgin saint daughter of Constantine the Great and a daughter of William the Conqueror.
We like to think of Constance as an unofficial virtue name. The seven official virtues are Faith, Hope, Charity (Love), Prudence, Justice, Temperance and Courage. Yet Constance imbues a sense of one’s firm faith in the Christian tradition. The English word “constance” is borrowed from the French via the Latin “constantem” meaning “steadfast, resolute, faithful”. As a female given name, the Norman-French introduced it to the English after the Conquest of 1066. 
My middle name is Constance after my grandmother, who was a lovely person, so kind and fun. As an adult I love the name and think it's beautiful and daring, but when I was younger I felt too little for it and wanted a cutsie and common middle name like Marie. I named my baby Constance as it's an old fashioned name, but really pretty and feminine (I'm not into the Androgynous names that everyone names their kids).
Medieval form of CONSTANTIA. The Normans introduced this name to England (it was the name of a daughter of William the Conqueror). 
Latin Meaning: The name Constance is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Constance is: Firm of purpose. Constancy, from the Latin Constantia. American Meaning: The name Constance is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Constance is: Firm of purpose. Constancy, from the Latin Constantia. English Meaning: The name Constance is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Constance is: Constancy; steadfastness. French Meaning: The name Constance is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Constance is: Constancy; steadfastness. Shakespearean Meaning: The name Constance is a Shakespeare
One of William the Conqueror's daughters was named Constance, and in Shakespeare 's King John, Constance is the devoted mother of King Arthur. Constance was widely used in the seventeenth century by Puritans: Constance Hopkins was a young passenger on the Mayflower. The fictional Constance Billard School appears in TV's Gossip Girl, and Constance was the first name of the decidedly non-prim and proper Lady Chatterley. Oscar Wilde's wife was Constance, and Mozart 's spouse was the German form Constanze, nicknamed Stanzi. Though Constance has been neglected here for a number of years, it's still ranks at Number 120 in France. Trivia tidbit: Constance was the birth name of 1940's peekaboo-hairdo star Veronica Lake and also, not surprisingly, Connie Britton.