Sancerre is located at the very eastern edge of Loire Valley's main vineyard area, hundreds of miles from the region's westernmost vineyards. It is in fact closer to the Cote d'Or in Burgundy than to the Loire's other key wine districts, Anjou and Touraine. The classic Sancerre wine is white, bracingly acidic, and has pungent aromas of gooseberries, grass, nettles, and a hint of stony minerality.
White Sancerre was one of the original AOCs awarded in 1936, with the same area being designated for red wines on 23 January 1959. The AOC area has expanded fourfold over the years, most recently on 18 March 1998. A rose rosé style From pinot noir is also produced in a style similar To. Beaujolais White sancerre was one of the AOCs aocs awarded in, 1936 with the same area being designated for red wines on 23 january. 1959 THE aoc area has expanded fourfold over the, years most recently on 18 march. 1998
Sancerre. Sancerre is one of the most famous white wines in France. Sancerre is also a very nice village with a typical castle in the Loire valley. Sancerre white wine is more delicate than close-by Pouilly Fume. Fumé sancerre matures a little bit faster than its. neighbor
Sancerre is an appellation located in the so-called Upper Loire -- the eastern end of the Loire Valley. It is best known for its brisk, mineral white wines, made from the Sauvignon Blanc grape, though red and rose Sancerre, made from Pinot Noir, is increasingly popular. 
It is only since the mid-20th century, and the creation of a protected Sancerre appellation, that the town's name has been so strongly associated with white wines. Prior to this, the district was better known for its light-bodied reds. The classic Sancerre wine is white, bracingly acidic, and has pungent aromas of gooseberries, grass, nettles, and a hint of stony minerality.
Sancerre is a medieval hilltop town (ville), commune and canton in the Cher department of central France overlooking the Loire River. 
Sancerre Wine. Sancerre is a small wine district in central France, famous for its crisp, aromatic white wines made from Sauvignon Blanc. It is also known for its high-quality goat cheeses, which are an excellent match for the local wine. The classic Sancerre wine is white, bracingly acidic, and has pungent aromas of gooseberries, grass, nettles, and a hint of stony minerality.
Many of you know and love to drink Sancerre; it was something of a rage a decade ago. Sancerre is an appellation in the Centre region, on the eastern end of France’s Loire Valley wine country. Most of us are familiar with the whites that dominate the region, always made from sauvignon blanc. 
Such is the case with a good Sancerre, a sauvignon blanc that could come only from the hills and valleys around the commune of Sancerre, about 75 miles southeast of Orleans orléans in The Loire valley in Central. France this is not to say that All sancerre wines have this. quality Such is the case with a good Sancerre, a sauvignon blanc that could come only from the hills and valleys around the commune of Sancerre, about 75 miles southeast of Orleans orléans in The Loire valley in Central. france