You pay just 15% tax on all employer contributions up to a limit of $30,000 ($35,000 if you’re 50 or over), and if you have insurance within your super, any premiums are taken out before this 15% is calculated. 1 You (and/or your employer) put money into your super account. 2  The super fund invests the money for you and it grows over time (though some years may be negative). 3  The money earned on your investment is also invested and earns a return so your balance grows.
1 out of 5, reviewed on Sep 30, 2015. I had my money in AMP Life Stages super for several years, and during that time they under-performed the industry average return-while charging the highest fees. I moved my super to another company where the fees are one-quarter of AMP's and better overall average performance. It really varies depending on when you took it out, which product it is, and whether the agent's fees are partly 'deferred'. I agree with what will be said-that should have been disclosed but probably wasn't. The 'exit fee' is often this. I've had it happen with clients.
My son now working and leaving overseas and had a super fund with AMP (lifetime flexible super fund), the pay stopped in Jul 2008 but the AMP kept charging various fees until 21 feb 14 he rolled it over and got $1241.26 instead of $2856 he had. 
Only pay for what you want. Our fee structure means you only pay for what you want. This means your AMP Flexible Super can be a simple, no-frills low-cost super account. Or it can be the super which offers you plenty of specialised investment choices plus comprehensive insurance with income protection. It’s flexible and completely up to you. As life changes your super should too. AMP Flexible Super is designed to make super convenient-easy-to-set up, adjustable and accessible. You can manage your super online whenever you want and you only pay for what you need. Apply now in a few easy steps
1 You only pay 15% tax on super contributions from your employer (or member contributions for which a tax deduction is claimed) of up to $30,000 a year (this is called the concessional contributions cap). 2  If you’re 50 or over, however, your cap is $35,000 a year. 1 You (and/or your employer) put money into your super account. 2  The super fund invests the money for you and it grows over time (though some years may be negative). 3  The money earned on your investment is also invested and earns a return so your balance grows.
If you put in $5,000 during a year and your balance was $50,000, then for that year you will be charged fees of $408.(iii) The amount you actually pay for AMP Flexible Super – Super accounts is reduced by 15% to allow for the tax deductions passed on to you. If a Special Exit Fee applies to your current AMP product, it will be shown on your last Member Statement.(ii) Until 31 October 2013, the Management Fee – the amount you pay for specific investment options will range from 0.50% to 3.05% pa of the amount you invested in the investment option each year.
Like its competitors at Virgin Superannuation, Max Super and the BT's Super for Life, AMP is moving into direct distribution of a low-cost, online superannuation product. The Flexible Lifetime Super Easy fund allows customers to choose which features they want and expand their investments as time passes. What are its features? AMP Financial Services is launching a simple, low-cost, no-commission online superannuation fund, Flexible Lifetime Super Easy, designed to appeal to generations X and Y or, more broadly, those aged from 25 to 50 with incomes of less than $100,000 a year.
Your employer must pay 9.5% of your earnings to super from your pre-tax salary. This is called the Superannuation Guarantee (SG), which will be frozen at 9.5% until 1 July 2021 and then increase by 0.5% a year until it reaches 12% from 1 July 2025. 1 You (and/or your employer) put money into your super account. 2  The super fund invests the money for you and it grows over time (though some years may be negative). 3  The money earned on your investment is also invested and earns a return so your balance grows.