An average amount of protein to eat per day is about as many grams as your weight is in kilograms. To convert your weight from pounds to kilograms, divide your weight in pounds by 2.2. One ounce of meat or 1 cup of milk can be estimated to be about 8 grams of protein. A good rule of thumb for daily protein intake, and a safe range based on the literature, is 0.8 - 2.5 grams of protein per kilogram of bodyweight. For muscular gain, I suggest at least 1.25 grams per pound of current lean bodyweight, which means you subtract your body fat first. Here are a few examples:
Men who work out 5 or more days a week for an hour or longer need 0.55 gram per pound. And men who work out 3 to 5 days a week for 45 minutes to an hour need 0.45 gram per pound. So a 180-pound guy who works out regularly needs about 80 grams of protein a day.
The DASH diet also limits sodium to between 1,500 milligrams and 2,300 milligrams a day. Here are recommended servings from the food groups for the two calorie levels of the DASH diet, along with examples of serving sizes. 
Calcium-fortified soy milk also counts as a dairy food. The USDA recommends everyone over the age of 9 consume 3 cups from the dairy food group each day. For non-fluid dairy products, a 1-cup serving includes 1.5 ounces of hard cheese, 2 ounces of processed cheese, ½ cup ricotta cheese and 2 cups cottage cheese. Depending on age, sex and physical activity, adults should consume 1 ½ to 2 cups of fruit per day. Examples of a 1-cup serving of fruit include one small apple, one large banana, 32 seedless grapes, three medium plums or one small wedge of watermelon.
In general, your daily grams of protein equate to approximately half your weight in pounds. For example, if you weigh 150 pounds, you need approximately seventy-five grams of protein every day. A good rule of thumb for daily protein intake, and a safe range based on the literature, is 0.8 - 2.5 grams of protein per kilogram of bodyweight. For muscular gain, I suggest at least 1.25 grams per pound of current lean bodyweight, which means you subtract your body fat first. Here are a few examples:
The specific amount of protein you need depends upon your age, sex and level of physical activity, but most adults should consume 5 to 6.5 ounce equivalents per day. An ounce equivalent equals a 1-ounce serving of meat, poultry or fish, 1 egg, 0.5 ounces of nuts or seeds or 1 tablespoon of peanut butter. Depending on age, sex and physical activity, adults should consume 1 ½ to 2 cups of fruit per day. Examples of a 1-cup serving of fruit include one small apple, one large banana, 32 seedless grapes, three medium plums or one small wedge of watermelon.
You need protein for your muscles, bones, and the rest of your body. Exactly how much you need changes with age: 1  Babies need about 10 grams a day. 2  School-age kids need 19-34 grams a day. 3  Teenage boys need up to 52 grams a day. 4  Teenage girls need 46 grams a day. 5  Adult men need about 56 grams a day. 
Grams of Carbs. Determine the number of grams of carbs you need each day by calculating 45 to 65 percent of your total calorie intake, and dividing by 4. For example, if you eat a 2,000-calorie diet, shoot for 225 to 325 grams of carbs per day; and if you eat 2,500 calories a day, aim for 281 to 406 grams of carbs.
All vegetables, including raw, cooked, fresh, frozen or canned, count toward your daily recommended servings. Adults should consume 2 to 3 cups of vegetables per day. Nutritionists break the vegetable food group down into five subgroups based on their nutrient content. Depending on age, sex and physical activity, adults should consume 1 ½ to 2 cups of fruit per day. Examples of a 1-cup serving of fruit include one small apple, one large banana, 32 seedless grapes, three medium plums or one small wedge of watermelon.
Adults in the U.S. are encouraged to get 10% to 35% of their day's calories from protein foods. That's about 46 grams of protein for women, and 56 grams of protein for men. It's not hard to get this amount if you eat two to three servings of protein-rich foods a day, according to the CDC. 1  A small 3-ounce piece of meat has about 21 grams of protein. 2  One 8-ounce container of yogurt has about 11 grams of protein. 3  One cup of milk has 8 grams of protein. 4  One cup of dry beans has about 16 grams of protein.