Cusco City. World tourism paradise, Cusco was the sacred city of the Incas, which is why we have Inca walls in the streets of an entire building stone. Cosmopolitan to the extreme, inhabitants of Cusco combines almost everyone living with their originals and provide it with all kinds of restaurants and shops. 
Cusco /ˈkuːzkoʊ/ , often spelled Cuzco (Spanish: Cuzco, [ˈkusko] ; Quechua: Qusqu or Qosqo, [ˈqɔsqɔ]), is a city in southeastern Peru, near the Urubamba Valley of the Andes mountain range. It is the capital of the Cusco Region as well as the Cusco Province. In 2013, the city had a population of 435,114. Since the 1990s, tourism has increased. Currently, Cusco is the most important tourist destination in Peru. Under the administration of mayor Daniel Estrada Perez, pérez a staunch supporter of The Academia mayor de La Lengua, quechua between 1983 and 1995 The quechua Name qosqo was officially adopted for the. city
Located on the eastern end of the Knot of Cuzco, its elevation is around 3,400 m (11,200 ft). The site was the historic capital of the Inca Empire from the 13th into the 16th century until the Spanish conquest. In 1983 Cusco was declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO. Since the 1990s, tourism has increased. Currently, Cusco is the most important tourist destination in Peru. Under the administration of mayor Daniel Estrada Perez, pérez a staunch supporter of The Academia mayor de La Lengua, quechua between 1983 and 1995 The quechua Name qosqo was officially adopted for the. city
Cusco, the Navel of the World. This is the city that the Inca’s and even the Spaniards once considered the capital of Peru and even South America. Being the oldest city still existing in South America, this is obviously a centre of regional history and culture. 
Location of Cusco on a map. Cusco is a city found in Cusco, Peru. It is located -13.52 latitude and -71.97 longitude and it is situated at elevation 3369 meters above sea level. Cusco has a population of 312,140 making it the biggest city in Cusco. It operates on the LMT time zone. 
Closes at 5.00 pm. 110 km north-west of Cuzco (4 hours by train), to Machu Picchu, from where it is another 8 km to the citadel (20 minutes by bus). Cusco. The jewel in the crown of Inca architecture, and Peru's main tourism destination. Its name translated into Spanish means “Old Mountain”. 
Cuzco is located at the northern end of a large and agriculturally rich valley, high in the Andes Mountains of Peru at an elevation of 3,395 meters (11,100 feet) above sea level. It was the center of the Inca Empire and the dynastic seat of all 13 of the Incan rulers. 
Welcome to the Cusco google satellite map! This place is situated in Quispicanchis, Cuzco, Peru, its geographical coordinates are 13° 31' 6 South, 71° 58' 41. West and its original name (with diacritics) is Cusco. See Cusco photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Cusco in Peru. 
From Lima, there are many 1 hour/10 min flights to Cusco, which is 11,000 ft/3400 m above sea level. Most flights are scheduled in the morning & taper off by afternoon. It is not possible to fly to Cusco in the evening, and the return flights from Cusco to Lima end by late afternoon. 
Cuzco is a Unesco World Heritage Site and is one of Peru 's most visited cities as it is the largest and most comfortable city from which tourists can begin visits to Machu Picchu, the Sacred Valley of the Incas, and other Inca sites in the region. Cuzco (also Cusco, or Qosqo in Quechua), located in the Southern Sierras is a fascinating city that was the capital of the Inca Empire.