The alkaline phosphatase test (ALP) is used to help detect liver disease or bone disorders. 1  In conditions affecting the liver, damaged liver cells release increased amounts of ALP into the blood. 2  Any condition that affects bone growth or causes increased activity of bone cells can affect ALP levels in the blood. 1 Any condition that affects bone growth or causes increased activity of bone cells can affect ALP levels in the blood. 2  An ALP test may be used, for example, to detect cancers that have spread to the bones or to help diagnose Paget's disease, a condition that causes malformed bones.
Alkaline Phosphatase In Blood Test. An alkaline phosphatase in blood test is usually used to gauge the levels of the enzyme alkaline phosphatase in the body. While the normal values of the enzyme may vary from lab to lab, the generally accepted standards read at about 30 to 126 units per liter in adults and about 30 to 300 units per liter in children. 
A test for alkaline phosphatase (ALP) is done to: 1  Check for liver disease or damage to the liver. 2  Check bone problems (sometimes found on X-rays), such as rickets, bone tumors, Paget's disease, or too much of the hormone that controls bone growth (parathyroid hormone). A test for alkaline phosphatase (ALP) is done to: 1  Check for liver disease or damage to the liver. 2  Symptoms of liver disease can include jaundice, belly pain, nausea, and vomiting.
The ALP test may be done as part of a routine liver panel, a group of blood tests that looks at how well your liver is working. If your ALP levels are too high, your health care provider may order an ALP isoenzyme test to find out what type of ALP is elevated in your blood. Liver disorders make different forms of ALP than bone disorders.
An alkaline phosphatase level test (ALP test) measures the amount of alkaline phosphatase enzyme in your bloodstream. The test requires a simple blood draw and is often a routine part of other blood tests. Abnormal levels of ALP in your blood most often indicate a problem with your liver and/or bones. However, they may also indicate malnutrition, kidney tumors, or a serious infection. Alkaline phosphatase is an enzyme found in your bloodstream. ALP helps break down proteins in the body and exists in different forms, depending on where it originates. It is mostly produced in your liver, but some is also made in your bones, intestines, and kidneys.
Alkaline Phosphatase. Guide. An alkaline phosphatase (ALP) test measures the amount of the enzyme ALP in the blood. ALP is made mostly in the liver and in bone with some made in the intestines and kidneys. It also is made by the placenta of a pregnant woman. The liver makes more ALP than the other organs or the bones. A test for alkaline phosphatase (ALP) is done to: 1  Check for liver disease or damage to the liver. 2  Symptoms of liver disease can include jaundice, belly pain, nausea, and vomiting.
Levels of alkaline phosphatase -- an enzyme in the blood -- can be elevated by liver disease, or less serious conditions including pregnancy and over-the-counter drug use. See your doctor to discuss any concerns you may have after a blood test. 
When the results of your ALP test are in, your doctor will discuss them with you and tell you what to do next. According to Cigna, the normal levels for an adult are between 25 and 100 units of ALP per liter of blood. The normal value for a child is up to 350 units per liter (Cigna, 2010). Alkaline phosphatase is an enzyme found in your bloodstream. ALP helps break down proteins in the body and exists in different forms, depending on where it originates. It is mostly produced in your liver, but some is also made in your bones, intestines, and kidneys.
The alkaline phosphatase (ALP) test measures how much alkaline phosphatase you have in your blood. Alkaline phosphatase is an enzyme found throughout your body. But it is mainly in your liver, bone, kidney, and digestive tract. If your ALP levels are too high, your health care provider may order an ALP isoenzyme test to find out what type of ALP is elevated in your blood. Liver disorders make different forms of ALP than bone disorders.