Using WebService with Yahoo API. Linking data from Yahoo Finance API into my Excel worksheet via the function WebService(). I would like to link in historical data from specific past dates. For instance, I would like to receive the Open/Close prices for MSFT on 03/24/2013.
1. How to download Share Price Data in a CSV. 2. How to Import Share Price Data into an Excel Spreadsheet. Disclaimer. Displaying share price data on a website (even delayed data) usually requires a license from the relevant stock exchange/s. The Google Finance API was officially deprecated in June 2011.
I am getting the stock price using the formula: =WEBSERVICE(http://finance.yahoo.com/d/quotes.csv?s=&C2&&f=l1) (C2 is the cell with the stock symbol) However, I cannot figure out how to convert the result into a numeric so that I can use it in a formula.
How to call the free Yahoo Finance API to get Stock Data (Microsoft Excel & VBA). Yahoo Finance provides a simple way to download stock quotes. The service returns stock data in a CSV. This blog explain how to get stock data from Yahoo Finance using Excel & VBA. And an example result is below. In this example, we want to obtain the following Stock info of Google, Facebook and Microsoft.
1 Stock Quotes in a Google Spreadsheet-at support.google.com-Google got it right. 2  You can use the =GOOGLEFINANCE function to get stock quote data into your Google Spreadsheet directly from Google Finance. 3  View an example template by Google here.
Yahoo! and Google both unofficially provide a free way to download stock quotes using an API. Yahoo! Finance. Financial data can be downloaded in a CSV, imported into an existing Excel Spreadsheet, or downloaded in XML / JSON formatted data to display on a website using the Yahoo! Query Language (YQL) API.
47 thoughts on “How to call the free Yahoo Finance API to get Stock Data (Microsoft Excel & VBA)”. Thanks for putting this together. Since Yahoo finance was recently revamped it is no longer possible to easily retrieve stock / mutual fund prices as a web query withing microsoft excel.