The altE Off-Grid Solar Panel System Calculator helps you size the battery bank, watts of solar panels and the solar charge controller you need. The calculator assumes you will need to size your system to get you through average amount of sun-light in the. for your location. You will need a charge controller that can handle amps. Select the solar charge controller that fits your needs. Sizing a charge controller can be complex, the above answer is a conservative estimate.
Sizing your Solar Charge Controller. You will need a charge controller that can handle amps. Select the solar charge controller that fits your needs. Sizing a charge controller can be complex, the above answer is a conservative estimate. Please feel free to call us to find a more accurate fit for your needs
Sizing your Solar Charge Controller. You will need a charge controller that can handle amps. A Flex 80 from Outback can only use 5000 watts of panels at 80 amps, so if your total wattage exceeds 5kw you need to add additional charge controller. The Off-Grid Solar Panel System Calculator helps you size the battery bank, watts of solar panels and the solar charge controller you need. The calculator assumes you will need to size your system to get you through average amount of sun-light in the. for your location.
What happens when you use a standard controller. Standard (that is, all but the MPPT types), will often work with high voltage panels if the maximum input voltage of the charge controller is not exceeded. However, you will lose a lot of power-from 20 to 60% of what your panel is rated at. The charge controller regulates this 16 to 20 volts output of the panel down to what the battery needs at the time. This voltage will vary from about 10.5 to 14.6, depending on the state of charge of the battery, the type of battery, in what mode the controller is in, and temperature.
Not always, but usually. Generally, there is no need for a charge controller with the small maintenance, or trickle charge panels, such as the 1 to 5 watt panels. A rough rule is that if the panel puts out about 2 watts or less for each 50 battery amp-hours, then you don't need one. The charge controller regulates this 16 to 20 volts output of the panel down to what the battery needs at the time. This voltage will vary from about 10.5 to 14.6, depending on the state of charge of the battery, the type of battery, in what mode the controller is in, and temperature.
A good 3 stage 40 amp Charge Controller will run about $140 to $225 depending on features like LCD displays. For eight 75 to 80 watt solar panels you would need two 40 amp Charge Controllers to handle the power or you could increase your system voltage to 24 volts and still use just one 40 amp Charge Controller. A charge controller is used to maintain the proper charging voltage on the batteries. As the input voltage from the solar array rises, the charge controller regulates the charge to the batteries preventing any over charging.
With a regular charge controller, if your batteries are low at say 12.4 volts, then your 100 watt solar panel rated at 6 amps at 16.5 volts (6 amps times 16.5 volts = 100 watts) will only charge at 6 amps times 12.4 volts or just 75 watts. You just lost 25% of your capacity! A charge controller is used to maintain the proper charging voltage on the batteries. As the input voltage from the solar array rises, the charge controller regulates the charge to the batteries preventing any over charging.
If you are using four 75 to 80 Watt solar panels, your charge controller should be rated up to 40 amps. Even though the solar panels don't normally produce that much current, there is an 'edge of cloud effect'. Due to this phenomenon I have seen my four 6 amp panels (4*6=24) pump out over 32 amps. A charge controller is used to maintain the proper charging voltage on the batteries. As the input voltage from the solar array rises, the charge controller regulates the charge to the batteries preventing any over charging.