Happy Ugadi Twitter. Happy Ugadi Twitter. Karnataka is all set to celebrate Ugadi (also called Yugadi) festival on 21 March. It is said that the festival marks the first day of the new year, which is also known as 'Vikram Samwat' or 'Bhartiya Nav Varsh' in some parts of India. Likewise, Andhra Pradesh also celebrates this festival with the same name, while in Maharashtra, it is celebrated as 'Gudi Padwa'. People in Karnataka prepare a special dish on this day known as 'Obbattu', or 'Holige'. Another dish is prepared, which consists of a specific mixture of six tastes called 'Ugadi Pachhadi'
Ugadi or Yugadi is celebrated as the first day of the year by people of Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. On this day new Samvatsara, which is cycle of sixty years, starts. All sixty Samvatsara are identified by unique name. Ugadi is celebrated as Gudi Padwa by the people of Maharashtra. 
In Telugu, the greeting is ugadi subhakankshalu -ఉగాది శుభాకాంక్షలు (Greetings for the festival of ugadi) and Nutana samvastara shubhakankshalu -నూతన సంవత్సర శుభాకాంక్షలు (Greetings on the new year). In some parts of India it is known as Vikram Samvat or Bhartiya Nav Varsh. While the people of Andhra Pradesh, and Telangana use the term ఉగాది/Ugadi and Karnataka use the term Yugadi/Ugadi for this festival, the people of Maharashtra term the same festival, observed on the same day, Gudi Padwa (Marathi: गुढी पाडवा).
Andhra Pradesh. The Ugadi Festival in Andhra Pradesh is the New Year festival that is celebrated every year as Ugadi marks the beginning of the Hindi Lunar calendar. Ugadi marks a day of joy and happiness, aspirations and hope, the belief are that this day and its joys would foreshadow the course of events for the upcoming year. Ugadi festival in Andhra Pradesh is the festival to rejoice the coming of the New Year. It gives the people of Andhra Pradesh a reason to celebrate the coming of the New Year in many different ways.
Best Answer: Ugadi -- New Year Day Ugadi is celebrated with festive fervor in Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. While it is called Ugadi in A.P. and Karnataka, in Maharashtra it is known as Gudipadawa. Ugadi marks the beginning of a new Hindu lunar calendar. It is a day when mantras are chanted and predictions made for the new year. The most important thing in the festival is Panchanga Shravanam-hearing of the Panchanga. (m) Ugadi is celebrated with festive fervor in Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. While it is called Ugadi in A.P. and Karnataka, in Maharashtra it is known as Gudipadawa.
Festivals: Ugadi : Ugadi Celebrations. Ugadi or Yugadi, the festival reserved to celebrate the commencement of New Year, is a day especially celebrated with huge fun and fervor in Deccan regions of India. It is assumed that Lord Brahma, the creator of the world began His creation on this day. 
The Saka calendar begins with the month of Chaitra (March–April) and Ugadi marks the first day of the new year. Chaitra is the first month in Panchanga which is the Indian calendar. In some parts of India it is known as Vikram Samvat or Bhartiya Nav Varsh. While the people of Andhra Pradesh, and Telangana use the term ఉగాది/Ugadi and Karnataka use the term Yugadi/Ugadi for this festival, the people of Maharashtra term the same festival, observed on the same day, Gudi Padwa (Marathi: गुढी पाडवा).
The festival of Ugadi is celebrated to acknowledge that very day on which Lord Brahma started with the task. It is not only a New Year according to the Hindu calendar, but also sets the new astronomical cycle into motion. The celebrations and prayers that follow fill people's hearts with joy and contentment. 
The name Yugadi or Ugadi is derived from the Sanskrit words yuga (age) and ādi (beginning): the beginning of a new age. It falls on a different day every year because the Hindu calendar is a lunisolar calendar. In some parts of India it is known as Vikram Samvat or Bhartiya Nav Varsh. While the people of Andhra Pradesh, and Telangana use the term ఉగాది/Ugadi and Karnataka use the term Yugadi/Ugadi for this festival, the people of Maharashtra term the same festival, observed on the same day, Gudi Padwa (Marathi: गुढी पाडवा).