1 'Growing pains' are pains or aches that come and go, usually in the muscles of the calves and thighs, or behind the knees, or occasionally in the arms-but not in the joints. 2  They usually do not happen every night. 
The duration of the pain is usually between 10 and 30 minutes, although it might range from minutes to hours. The degree of pain can be mild or very severe. Growing pains are intermittent, with pain-free intervals from days to months. In some children the pain can occur daily. Because these pains most often occur during years when the child's growth is not at its fastest rate, the pains are NOT associated with growing. The name was given in the 1930s to 1940s when the pains were thought to be from faster growth of the bones when compared to the growth of the tendons.
Kids typically feel the pains at night, then they disappear in the morning. Be reassuring, give a massage, and give Tylenol with a little food if you think you need to, Vogler tells WebMD. If your child develops certain symptoms, it's wise to notify your child's doctor. Worrisome symptoms that might indicate that something other than growing pains and something more serious may be going on include: 1  Persistent pain, pain in the morning or swelling, tenderness, and redness in a joint. 2  Joint pain associated with an injury. 3  Limping, weakness, or unusual tiredness. 
Growing pains disappear in the morning. They usually do not interfere with the child's ability to play sports or be active. In general, growing pains are felt in both legs, especially in the front of the thighs, back of legs (calves), or behind the knees. Some kids have a lot of pain, others do not. Most kids do not have pain every day. Growing pains can come and go. They may be experienced for months or even years. Most kids outgrow growing pains within a few years. The pain is usually felt in the late afternoon and evening, right before dinner time, and at bedtime. The leg pains may hurt so much that they may wake your child from sleep
264. Olivia complains of leg pain, usually at night. It's been off and on for years, probably when she was 3, and even now still, once in a while, at 8 years old. Never so bad that I needed to give her any pain meds...and it is almost always when she is tired and in bed. Aly has been complaining of knee pain for almost a year now. We had a full MRI done of her brain/neck/full spine last December thinking it was related to her Chiari, but that looked ok. I have been thinking it was just growing pains, but now it is starting to worry me.
The term growing pains refers to a benign (not dangerous) pattern of pain in the limbs. This pain usually occurs in children aged 3 to 12. These pains are the most common type of limb pain in children. Between 10 percent and 35 percent of children will have these pains at least once. Because these pains most often occur during years when the child's growth is not at its fastest rate, the pains are NOT associated with growing. The name was given in the 1930s to 1940s when the pains were thought to be from faster growth of the bones when compared to the growth of the tendons.
Growing pains are aches or pains, most commonly in the lower legs, that occur in the evening or at night and affect children aged between three and 12. Although they can be distressing, growing pains do not cause long-term harm. What to do. Growing pains can usually be treated at home. You can give your child paracetamol or ibuprofen to manage the pain. Sometimes, giving them painkillers before bedtime after an active day can prevent them waking in the night.
The pain after a tooth extraction can last anywhere from 1 day to up to a week sometimes more depending on what tooth was pulled. some teeth are more deep rooted then others a … nd can take longer to heal. also depends on whether or not there was infection before the tooth was extracted or if you develop a dry socket. Anywhere from 30 minutes to a few hours depending on age.
Preparing for your appointment. Most children who have growing pains will not need to see a doctor. If the pain is persistent or unusual, you may want to bring your concerns to the attention of your family doctor or pediatrician. 