How much does massage therapy school cost? The cost of massage therapy school ranges between $6 to $17 per hour of education, with the average cost* around $9 to $10 per hour. This means if your state has no—or minimal—requirements, you can choose to take a shorter program, which will cost you less in massage therapy tuition. However, most states with massage licensing criteria commonly require between 500 to 600 hours of massage therapy training.
Program Length and Massage School Tuition. One of the biggest factors in accounting for the huge range of massage therapy school tuition rates is the length of the program. Programs in some states may involve as little as 500 hours of education, while others may include 700 hours, 1,000 hours, or more. Naturally, you’d expect a 1,000 hour program to cost around twice as much as a 500 hour program.
However, to become a licensed massage therapist in most states, the cost of massage therapy school ranges from $5,000 to $9,000 in tuition alone. Before choosing a school, find out if the tuition includes the costs of books and equipment. Figuring Out Massage Therapy School Costs. The biggest factor in the cost of massage therapy school is clock hours. Rates range from $6 to $17 per hour of training, depending on where students choose to attend their massage training.
Massage therapy school cost. Most states require five times as much massage therapy training, plus anatomy, physiology and biology courses to become licensed. Your 500 hours will likely include some sort of practicum (perform a certain number of massages on live bodies). This level of massage education will run you from 5K to 9K. One way to reduce your massage therapy school cost is to find a massage school that includes a massage table in their tuition. Since a table costs $500, that is quite a deal.
The national average for a massage is approximately $60 per hour. This varies significantly by region (urban areas are generally more expensive due to the higher costs of operating a practice there), setting (fitness clubs are sometimes cheaper because massage is a way to attract members), and therapist training. Your massage therapist may be able to bill your health insurance company directly. In other cases, you may need to pay the therapist directly, and then mail in your own claim with an invoice for services rendered, to be reimbursed later.
Massage schools that teach around the national average of 500-600 hours tend to have tuition that costs on average $6,000 to $10,000, including the cost of textbooks and supplies. Everyone is looking for something different when it comes to choosing a massage school. Most massage therapist schools require you to be at least 16 years of age, and have achieved either a high school diploma or GED equivalent. Check with your state or your potential schools before you enroll to be sure.
This equates to a tuition range of between $6,000 and $10,000 for your certificate, depending upon the school and its location. For example, Berkana Institute of Massage Therapy charges $10,750 for a 600 hour certification program. This means if your state has no—or minimal—requirements, you can choose to take a shorter program, which will cost you less in massage therapy tuition. However, most states with massage licensing criteria commonly require between 500 to 600 hours of massage therapy training.
At the end of your massage therapy program, you’ll have to pay to take your state’s licensing exams. National Certification Board for Therapeutic Massage & Bodywork (NCBTMB) exams, which are required for licensure in 35 of the 40 states that regulate massage therapy, cost $225. At the low end, massage therapy tuition runs about $6 per hour; at the high end, it can cost you $17 per hour. On average, you’ll be paying $9 to $10 per hour. If you want to become a nationally certified massage therapist, you’ll need to complete at least 500 hours in a massage therapy degree program. So the average massage therapy tuition for a full program would be $5,000 – about $3,000 at the low end and $9,000 at the high end
View our list of states to discover your state’s massage therapist licensing requirements. States require anywhere from 500 to 1000 hours of training to sit for your licensing exam, but the national average is 560 hours of training. Most massage therapist schools require you to be at least 16 years of age, and have achieved either a high school diploma or GED equivalent. Check with your state or your potential schools before you enroll to be sure.