Iraq. Iraq is located in the Middle East. It is bound by Iran to the east, Turkey to the north, Syria to the northwest, Jordan to the west, Saudi Arabia to the southwest and south as well as Kuwait and the Persian Gulf to the southeast.... Israel Israel is located in the Middle East along the eastern end of the Mediterranean Sea. It is bound by the Mediterranean Sea to the west, Lebanon to the north, Syria to the northeast, Jordan to the east and Egypt to the southwest.... Jordan Jordan is located in the Middle East. It is bound by Syria to the north, Iraq to the northeast, Saudi Arabia to the east and south as well as Israel to the west.... Kuwait Kuwait is located in the northeastern corner of the Arabian Peninsula and at the head of the Persian Gulf. 
Israel is a country with a small population which is located in the continent/region of Asia. Countries near Israel include Palestine, Jordan, Lebanon and Cyprus. 
The State of Israel, located in Western Asia is a developed Middle East country. This member country of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) is bordered by Jordan to the east, Syria to the northeast, Palestine territories to the east and south west, and Lebanon to the north. Egypt is situated south of Israel and Mediterranean sea borders its south-eastern coast. Israel that covers a total area 20,770 sq. km, is the 154th largest country of the world and 43rd largest economy of the world as per GDP 2012. The country has the highest standard of living in the Middle East. Jerusalem, the capital and largest city of Israel is also partly claimed by Palestinians. The city has major religious significance in the world; this is the birthplace of three major religions: Islam, Judaism, and Christianity.
Confidence votes 569. Israel is a small country in south-western Asia, on the eastern edge of the Mediterranean Sea. Neighbouring countries include Lebanon to the north, Syria and Jordan to the east, and Egypt to the south-west. 
The given Israel location map depicts the location of Israel on the world map; Israel is located eastern coast of Mediterranean Sea. Israel is part of Middle East. It shares international boundary with Lebanon in the north, Syria in the northeast, Jordan in the east, and Egypt in the southwest. Besides, it also shares boundaries with West Bank in the east and Gaza Strip in the southwest
Founded in 1909, the city of Tel Aviv is located on the Mediterranean coast, in the Western part of central Israel. This is the heart of the Gush Dan area. The distance between Jerusalem and Tel Aviv is 69 km (42 miles), when driving between the cities. Jerusalem is south-west to Tel Aviv. 
Israel is located on the continent of Asia, at the extreme eastern end of the Mediterranean Sea, bounded by Lebanon, Syria, Jordan, Egypt, Gaza, and the West bank. 5 people found this useful. Edit. Answer 1 Israel is located entirely in Asia. Egypt is located mostly in Africa, but partially in Asia. Specifically, the Sinai Peninsula is the Asian part of Egypt. Answer … 2 Egypt straddles both Africa and Asia while Israel is fully in Asia.
Israel is located in the western part of Asia, in an area of the world that is generally referred to as the Middle East. To the west of the country you will find the Mediterranean Sea. To the east you will find the kingdom of Jordan. 
Israel is a country located in the Middle East on the eastern coast of the Mediterranean Sea. It is northeast of Egypt, south of Lebanon and Syria, and west of Jordan. On most maps, Israel is below Lebanon, to the left of Jordan, and above and to the right of Egypt. Israel is entirely on the continent of Asia. Answer 1 Israel is located entirely in Asia. Egypt is located mostly in Africa, but partially in Asia. Specifically, the Sinai Peninsula is the Asian part of Egypt. Answer … 2 Egypt straddles both Africa and Asia while Israel is fully in Asia.