Making the world better, one answer at a time. Sugar is a covalent bond. It is not able to create ions. If it were an ionic bomd, then it would be
sugar is a covalent bond made up of 12 atoms of carbon, 22 atoms of hydrogen and 11 atoms of oxygen. (C12H22O11) it is covalent because it is made up of bonds between non-meta … ls.
Sugar, on the other hand, is composed of carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen and has covalent bonds. D Introduction A salt molecule is made up of one sodium atom and one chlorine atom. For salt to be made, the sodium atom must lose an electron and become a sodium ion.
HCl (Hydrogen Chloride) is a covalent compound and forms a covalent bond. However, if water is added to hydrogen chloride, it forms hydrochloric acid which is an ionic compoun … d that has ionic bonds.
sugar is a covalent compound sugar is a covalent compound sugar is a covalent compound.
This type of bond is called an ionic bond. Ionic bonds usually form between metals and non-metals. Na + + Cl - → Na + Cl-Table sugar or sucrose differs from salt in the bonding between its atoms. The atoms in sugar do not form ions; instead, they share their electrons.
An ionic bond is one in which electrons are gained/lost, ions are formed, and they attract, forming an ionic compound (e.g., HCl, H2SO4,Li2O) A covalent bond is one in which e … lectrons are shared, and depending on the size of the atoms involved, could be polar (H2O) or nonpolar (N2).
The atoms in sugar do not form ions; instead, they share their electrons. The type of bond that forms from the sharing of electrons between the atoms of the table sugar is a covalent bond. Table sugar has a much more complex chemical structure than salt.
Best Answer: Sugars are polar molecules. They contain hydroxy (-OH) groups as well as aldehyde (-CHO) groups, which are polar groups. Even though sugar molecules have covalent bonds, they are polar molecules. As additional proof, sugars are very soluble in water which is a polar solvent.
sugar is a covalent bond made up of 12 atoms of carbon, 22 atoms of hydrogen and 11 atoms of oxygen. (C12H22O11) it is covalent because it is made up of bonds between non-meta … ls.