1 Mix just to blend. 2  Place swordfish steaks into the marinade, and refrigerate for 1 hour, turning frequently. 3  Preheat an outdoor grill for high heat, and lightly oil the grate. 4  Grill swordfish steaks for 5 to 6 minutes on each side. 5  Garnish with parsley and lemon wedges. Ready In. 1  In a glass baking dish, combine the garlic, white wine, lemon juice, soy sauce, olive oil, poultry seasoning, salt and pepper. 2  Mix just to blend. 3  Place swordfish steaks into the marinade, and refrigerate for 1 hour, turning frequently. 4
1 Combine onion, olive oil, soy sauce, lemon juice, mustard, pepper and salt in a large bowl; whisk together. 2  Add fish to marinade and toss gently to coat. 3  Refrigerate for about 30 minutes or up to 1 hour. 4  Preheat grill or oven broiler. 5  Thread 4 pieces of fish on each skewer. 
Combine marinade ingredients and pour over 1 1/2 lb. swordfish. Cover and marinate at least 1 hour. Grill fish over medium heat for 8 to 10 minutes per side. 
Rinse fish in cold water; pat dry. Combine ingredients, mix well. Place swordfish in marinade. Refrigerate 2-3 hours, turning several times. Preheat grill; brush the salad oil. Place fish on grill, cook approximately 10 minutes per inch, turning halfway through cooking time. Remove from grill, brush with melted butter, garnish with lemon wedges
1 Place swordfish steaks into the marinade, and refrigerate for 1 hour, turning frequently. 2  Preheat an outdoor grill for high heat, and lightly oil the grate. 3  Grill swordfish steaks for 5 to 6 minutes on each side. 4  Garnish with parsley and lemon wedges. Ready In. 1  In a glass baking dish, combine the garlic, white wine, lemon juice, soy sauce, olive oil, poultry seasoning, salt and pepper. 2  Mix just to blend. 3  Place swordfish steaks into the marinade, and refrigerate for 1 hour, turning frequently. 4
1 Place swordfish steaks in a zip-lock bag, leaving the bag unsealed. 2  In a small bowl, combine 3 tbs. olive oil and remaining ingredients to make marinade mixture. 3  Pour marinade into bag with fish, tossing fish with fingers until fully coated. 4  Seal bag, releasing as much air as possible. 1 In a small bowl, combine 3 tbs. olive oil and remaining ingredients to make marinade mixture. 2  Pour marinade into bag with fish, tossing fish with fingers until fully coated. 3  Seal bag, releasing as much air as possible. 4  Marinate in refrigerator for 3 to 4 hours.
Directions. In a bowl combine juice of the lime, ginger, garlic and onion. Add olive oil and season with salt and pepper. Place swordfish steak in baking pan and pour marinade over fish. Coat and let sit for 15 to 30 minutes. Remove fish from pan and grill in cast iron pan or on grill for about 3 minutes per side.
Cook. Ready In. 1  In a glass baking dish, combine the garlic, white wine, lemon juice, soy sauce, olive oil, poultry seasoning, salt and pepper. 2  Mix just to blend. 3  Place swordfish steaks into the marinade, and refrigerate for 1 hour, turning frequently. 4  Preheat an outdoor grill for high heat, and lightly oil the grate.
1 Seal bag and turn to coat; refrigerate for 1 hour. 2  Drain and discard marinade. 3  Moisten a paper towel with cooking oil; using long-handled tongs, lightly coat the grill rack. 4  Grill swordfish, covered, over medium-high heat or broil 4 in. from the heat for 4-6 minutes on each side or until fish just turns opaque. 1 Drain and discard marinade. 2  Moisten a paper towel with cooking oil; using long-handled tongs, lightly coat the grill rack. 3  Grill swordfish, covered, over medium-high heat or broil 4 in. from the heat for 4-6 minutes on each side or until fish just turns opaque. 4  Yield: 2 servings.
White wine, lemon juice, and soy sauce flavor this marinade for swordfish steaks cooked out on the grill.. Ready In. 1  In a glass baking dish, combine the garlic, white wine, lemon juice, soy sauce, olive oil, poultry seasoning, salt and pepper. 2  Mix just to blend. 3  Place swordfish steaks into the marinade, and refrigerate for 1 hour, turning frequently. 4  Preheat an outdoor grill for high heat, and lightly oil the grate.