0. Tahiti is an island in the middle of the Pacific. It is not a continent nor on a continental shelf; but instead, French Polynesia (of which Tahiti is one of the many islands) forms part of an archipelago. more. 
The island is located in the archipelago of the Society Islands in the central Southern Pacific Ocean, and is divided into two parts: The bigger, northwestern part Tahiti Nui and the smaller, southeastern part Tahiti Iti. Tahiti is the economic, cultural and political centre of French Polynesia. The capital of the collectivity, Pape'ete, is located on the northwest coast with the only international airport in the region, Fa'a'ā International Airport, situated 5 km (3.1 mi) from the town centre.
The Gambier Islands The Austral Islands. French Polynesia more commonly known as Tahiti is located in the South Pacific approximately 8 hours by plane from the city of Los Angeles. It is in the same timezone as Hawaii, and the same distance south of the equator as Hawaii is north. Tahiti primarily consists of five main island groups, called archipelagos:
Site Map. Located in the Southern Pacific Ocean, Tahiti is the largest island in French Polynesia. Created from volcano eruptions that occurred over 3 million years ago, this island sits in the Society Island Archipelago and forms part of the Windward Islands. 
Islands located near a continent are generally considered, in a geographical sense, part of that continent. Greenland, for example, is politically part of Europe but belongs geographically to North America, as do the islands of the Caribbean and the western North Atlantic Ocean. 
Satellite view is showing Papeete, the capital of French Polynesia, an overseas collectivity of France. The urban settlement of Papeete is located in the north western part of the island of Tahiti, the highest and largest island in the Windward islands, an archipelago of 118 islands and atolls. The island was proclaimed a colony of France in 1880. Tahiti is located in the middle of nowhere in the South Pacific Ocean, 4,226 km south of Hawaii, 5,956 km west of Brisbane, Australia, 7,756 km east of Lima, Peru.
Frankly, there's never a bad time to travel to paradise. Tahiti and Moorea, part of the Society Islands of French Polynesia, were first explored by Captains Cook and Bligh, but they were made truly famous by the paintings of the artist, Paul Gauguin, and by the words of author, James A. Michener. 
Answer by Mary Kate. Confidence votes 19.1K. Though Tahiti is its own unique island, Tahiti is classified as being a part of the continent of Oceania, which is actually a collection of many small islands in the Pacific Ocean. Tahiti is located in the south central Pacific, about 2400 miles south east of Hawaii. Tahiti is located by Fiji. It is a smallish island, and is shaped oddly. Here is a pict … ure of it: So...
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Tahiti is an island in the middle of the Pacific. It is not a continent nor on a continental shelf; but instead, French Polynesia (of which Tahiti is one of the many islands) forms part of an archipelago. Source(s): Safÿre · 8 years ago. Report Abuse. Technically, its not part of a continent as a continent is defined as a continuous mass of land. Since it is an island in the pacific, it doesn't belong to any continent. However, in the world map, it is part of Oceana (i.e. Australia, New Zealand).