Choosing the right file format to save your images in is of vital importance. There are three image formats in constant use on the net — GIF, JPG and PNG. Each is suited to a specific type of image, and matching your image to the correct format should result in a small, fast-loading graphic.
Files that contain the .image file extension are most commonly associated with bitmap image sources that are used on a Unix-based operating system. These images are referenced by the operating system when a user opens the associated application.
The most common image file formats, the most important for cameras, printing, scanning, and internet use, are JPG, TIF, PNG, and GIF. 1  JPG is the most used image file format. 2  Digital cameras and web pages normally use JPG files-because JPG heroically compresses the data to be very much smaller in the file.
There are many file extensions for image files, but the most popular are .JPG (or .JPEG), .GIF, .PNG and .TIF. In addition to these file types, many digital cameras save in a format known as .RAW, or a brand-specific format. You may need to install a special driver to open or view these files.
Audio File Types and Formats. .GIF (Graphic Interchange Format) files use a maximum of 256 colors, and are best for displaying noncontinuous-tone images or those with large areas of flat colors, such as navigation bars, buttons, icons, logos, or other images with uniform colors and tones.
File extensions used for bitmap images and raster graphics files. Bitmap, raster graphics file formats are generally photo or picture images consisting of pixels in a grid. Each pixel in the image contains information about the color to be displayed. Bitmap images have a fixed resolution and cannot be resized without losing image quality.
Image file formats are standardized means of organizing and storing digital images. Image files are composed of digital data in one of these formats that can be rasterized for use on a computer display or printer. An image file format may store data in uncompressed, compressed, or vector formats.
(796 file extension database entries). File extensions used for bitmap images and raster graphics files. List of common bitmap images. Bitmap, raster graphics file formats are generally photo or picture images consisting of pixels in a grid. Each pixel in the image contains information about the color to be displayed. Bitmap images have a fixed resolution and cannot be resized without losing image quality.