Definition. Turner syndrome, a condition that affects only girls and women, results when a sex chromosome (the X chromosome) is missing or partially missing. 
*Turner syndrome facts by John P. Cunha, DO, FACOEP. 1  Turner syndrome is a chromosomal condition related to the X chromosome that alters development in females, though it is not usually inherited in families. 2  Symptoms of Turner syndrome are: 3  short stature and non-functioning ovaries which causes infertility, This condition occurs in about 1 in 2,500 female births worldwide, but is much more common among pregnancies that do not survive to term (miscarriages and stillbirths). Turner syndrome is a chromosomal condition related to the X chromosome. Researchers have not yet determined which genes on the X chromosome are responsible for most signs and symptoms of Turner syndrome.
Turner syndrome is related to the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. People typically have two sex chromosomes in each cell: females have two X chromosomes, while males have one X chromosome and one Y chromosome. Turner syndrome results when one normal X chromosome is present in a female's cells and the other sex chromosome is missing or structurally altered. Some women with Turner syndrome have a chromosomal change in only some of their cells, which is known as mosaicism. Women with Turner syndrome caused by X chromosome mosaicism are said to have mosaic Turner syndrome.
Turner syndrome is a chromosomal condition that affects development in females. The most common feature of Turner syndrome is short stature, which becomes evident by about age 5. Some women with Turner syndrome have a chromosomal change in only some of their cells, which is known as mosaicism. Women with Turner syndrome caused by X chromosome mosaicism are said to have mosaic Turner syndrome.
Turner syndrome is not usually inherited from a person's parents. No environmental risks are known and the mother's age does not play a role. Turner syndrome is due to a chromosomal abnormality in which all or part of one of the X chromosomes is missing or altered. While most people have 46 chromosomes, people with TS usually only have 45. The chromosomal abnormality may be present in just some cells in which case it is known as TS with mosaicism
General Discussion. Summary. Turner syndrome is a rare chromosomal disorder that affects females. The disorder is characterized by partial or complete loss (monosomy) of one of the X chromosomes. Turner syndrome is highly variable and can differ dramatically from one person to another. 
Introduction. Turner syndrome is a genetic disorder that affects about 1 in every 2,000 baby girls and only affects females. A girl with Turner syndrome only has one normal X sex chromosome, rather than the usual two (XX). This chromosome variation happens randomly when the baby is conceived in the womb. 
Turner syndrome most often occurs when a female has one normal X chromosome, but the other X chromosome is missing (45,X). Other forms of Turner syndrome result when one of the two chromosomes is partially missing or altered in some way. Turner syndrome causes a variety of symptoms in girls and women. About Turner Syndrome. Turner syndrome is a disorder caused by a partially or completely missing X chromosome. This condition affects only females. Most people have 46 chromosomes in each cell —23 from their mother and 23 from their father