External respiration occurs in the lungs where oxygen diffuses into the blood and carbon dioxide diffuses into the alveolar air. Internal respiration occurs in the metabolizing tissues, where oxygen diffuses out of the blood and carbon dioxide diffuses out of the cells. Respiration is Gas Exchange. While pulmonary ventilation is the process by which oxygen enters and carbon dioxide exits the alveoli, respiration is the process by which oxygen and carbon dioxide diffuse in and out of the blood. Respiration is also referred to as gas exchange, and it occurs in two areas of the body
It is then exhaled back into the atmosphere. Oxygen diffuses from the blood/tissue fluid into cells where it is used in respiration to release energy. Carbon dioxide diffuses back into the blood from cells as it is a waste product made during respiration. Source(s): AS biology student. Elfsong · 7 years ago. For O2 it is denoted as pO2 and pCO2 for carbon dioxide. CO2 diffuses out through the venous blood into the lungs (via alveoli) due to concentration gradient. Similarly pO2 which is high in concentration in the alveoli coming from outside the blood capillaries diffuses into lungs.
Additionally, hydrogen ion produced along with bicarbonate causes oxygen to be released from hemoglobin in our tissues. The opposite occurs in our lungs. As blood flows through the lungs, bicarbonate enters the red blood cell, where it is converted into carbon dioxide. Carbon dioxide then diffuses out of the red blood cell and into the lungs, where it is expired. In summary, carbon dioxide is a metabolic waste product of ATP synthesis. As our cells produce carbon dioxide, it diffuses into the blood, where it is transported to the lungs for expiration. Some of the carbon dioxide is transported dissolved in the plasma. Some carbon dioxide is transported as carbaminohemoglobin. However, most carbon dioxide is transported as bicarbonate. As blood flows through the tissues, carbon dioxide diffuses into red blood cells, where it is converted into bicarbonate
Carbon dioxide diffuses out of the tissues and into the blood, where it is dissolved in the plasma. While some of the carbon dioxide remains dissolved in the plasma, most carbon dioxide diffuses into our red blood cells. In summary, carbon dioxide is a metabolic waste product of ATP synthesis. As our cells produce carbon dioxide, it diffuses into the blood, where it is transported to the lungs for expiration. Some of the carbon dioxide is transported dissolved in the plasma. Some carbon dioxide is transported as carbaminohemoglobin. However, most carbon dioxide is transported as bicarbonate. As blood flows through the tissues, carbon dioxide diffuses into red blood cells, where it is converted into bicarbonate
Because of this difference in pO2 oxygen diffuses from the oxygenated blood through interstitial fluid and into tissue cells until the pO2 in the blood decreases to 40 mm Hg .While oxygen diffuses from the tissue blood capillaries into tissue cells, carbon dioxide diffuses in the opposite direction. For O2 it is denoted as pO2 and pCO2 for carbon dioxide. CO2 diffuses out through the venous blood into the lungs (via alveoli) due to concentration gradient. Similarly pO2 which is high in concentration in the alveoli coming from outside the blood capillaries diffuses into lungs.
Oxygen must enter our blood and Carbon Dioxide must leave the blood through our lungs. They do so by diffusion between the cappillaries. Your lungs send oxygenated blood to your heart. Carbon dioxide is carried to the lungs through blood and sent out the lungs. If you have lungs that are sick you will have trou … ble getting enough oxygen to your body and you will feel tired and unable to exercise or move well.
Capillaries. The diffusion of nutrients, oxygen, carbon dioxide and wastes take place in the capillaries. If you want to be more specific, it would be the venous ends of the capillaries where carbon dioxide enters the blood. Carbon dioxide is carried to the lungs through blood and sent out the lungs. If you have lungs that are sick you will have trou … ble getting enough oxygen to your body and you will feel tired and unable to exercise or move well.