Do not water the cutting to start off. Give the cutting light and heat. After 3 weeks, give the cutting a 1/2 a cup of water. Water with a 1/2 cup of water about every week. In about 1 to 2 months, you will see leaves start to sprout. When you see leaves, it is now time to water. 
With enough sun and water (and root stimulator the first year), they will grow about a foot per year. Their only drawback is that they aren't cold tolerant (bring inside when temps get consistantly under 50F at night) and when they get big are hard to store. Plumeria growth depends on climate. If you have warm temps (above 60F) year round with ample sunshine, you will have a large tree in a few years if they are planted in the ground. If you live in a more temperate zone and keep the plants in a pot, that will restrict their growth considerably. Robert G · 9 years ago
How to Grow a Plumeria. A plumeria is a fast-growing tropical tree that produces masses of fragrant blooms between March and October. A small tree, the plumeria reaches heights of about 30 feet (9.1 m) at maturity. Also known as frangipani, a plumeria is a warm-climate plant hardy to USDA Planting Zones 9 to 11. 3. Plant a plumeria in a sturdy container filled almost to the top with a good quality commercial cactus mix or all-purpose potting mix. Use a container at least 6 to 10 inches (15 to 25 cm) in diameter.
About How to Grow Plumeria. Plumeria trees and shrubs are easy-to-grow tropical wonders that grow very fast and produce a number of popular blooms. These plants, also known as Frangipanis, are commonly known for producing the flowers used to make leis. While some plumeria can be grown indoors with the assistance of grow lights, they typically are plants that thrive in the outdoors with lots of warmth and sunlight. When grown in the right conditions though, Plumeria can be very easy to raise and care for.
Report Abuse. Plumeria growth depends on climate. If you have warm temps (above 60F) year round with ample sunshine, you will have a large tree in a few years if they are planted in the ground. If you live in a more temperate zone and keep the plants in a pot, that will restrict their growth considerably. Robert G · 9 years ago
Plumeria trees and shrubs are easy-to-grow tropical wonders that grow very fast and produce a number of popular blooms. While some plumeria can be grown indoors with the assistance of grow lights, they typically are plants that thrive in the outdoors with lots of warmth and sunlight. When grown in the right conditions though, Plumeria can be very easy to raise and care for.
Plumerias also grow somewhat in proportion to the size of the container they're planted in. For example, in a pot this size (Figure E) the plumeria will grow to about three feet or so, but in a larger pot, the plant can grow much larger. 