Quinine can be used as medication against malaria. Quinine has long been used to treat fever and muscle cramps. Using insect repellent spray may help reduce the chances of being bitten by mosquitos. Quinine powder is known for its bitter taste. 
Quinine occurs naturally in the bark of the cinchona tree, though it has also been synthesized in the laboratory. The medicinal properties of the cinchona tree were originally discovered by the Quechua, who are indigenous to Peru and Bolivia; later, the Jesuits were the first to bring cinchona to Europe. Quinine is also used to treat lupus and arthritis. In the past, quinine was frequently prescribed in the US as an off-label treatment for nocturnal leg cramps, but this has become less prevalent due to a Food and Drug Administration statement warning against the practice.
Quinine is one of several medications used to treat malaria. It is approved to treat uncomplicated (mild) malaria caused by Plasmodium falciparum. Quinine does not prevent malaria infections; it is used to treat an infection that has already occurred. It is often used in combination with at least one other antimalarial medication. The key to malaria treatment is starting early. With early treatment, malaria can be cured and the serious effects can be prevented. 
Since then, many effective antimalarials have been introduced, although quinine is still used to treat the disease in certain critical circumstances, such as severe malaria, and in impoverished regions, due to its low cost. Quinine is also present (in minute quantities) in various beverages. Quinine is also used to treat lupus and arthritis. In the past, quinine was frequently prescribed in the US as an off-label treatment for nocturnal leg cramps, but this has become less prevalent due to a Food and Drug Administration statement warning against the practice.
Uses of This Medicine. Quinine is used to treat malaria caused by Plasmodium falciparum. Plasmodium falciparum is a parasite that gets into the red blood cells in the body and causes malaria. Quinine works by killing the parasite or preventing it from growing. 
1 Review. Quinine is the generic form of the brand-name drug qualaquin, a medication used to treat uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria, a specific type of malaria. Malaria is a disease caused by parasites that typically enter the body through the bite of a mosquito. Quinine is only approved for the treatment of malaria. Tonic water contains quinine but it does not have enough quinine to help with leg cramps. Common side effects associated with quinine can include headache, nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, hives, fever, ringing in the ears, vision problems, and bleeding problems.