At the middle school level (grades 6-8), Chinese students attend just under 1,000 hours of school per year, a figure similar to that of most U.S. states. Just as with India, the data shows that Chinese students are not required to receive 25 to 30 percent more in-school instruction per year than U.S. students. Elementary students in half of these states perform above the national average 3, while in the other half elementary students score below the national average. The 1,000 instructional hours India requires in grades 6-8 (middle school) is similar to the requirement in most states.
[...] school days and year round schooling. The average school year in America is about 180 days long, shorter than the school years of most nations that outperform the US (Sweden’s is on the low end with only 170 school days per year). 
That headline caught my attention as I expect it would most education support professionals (ESPs) and teachers. While most school days average 6.5 hours, the article said that Maynard Academy in Cambridge, Massachusetts was experimenting with an 8-hour school day, one of only 10 states to do so. Consult Everyone. In my particular school an 8-hour school day would force most students to get up at 5:30 a.m., board a bus at 6:30 a.m., and arrive at school at 7:30 a.m. Then, put in eight hours of class, leave at about 4:00 p.m. and return home at 5:00 p.m. This would mean that the students would be putting in almost 12-hour days.
Average length of school year and average length of school day, by selected characteristics: United States, 2003–04. 
By 1969-1970 that average had climbed to 161 school days; today that number is approaching 180 days. This means that the high school graduates of today are in class for what amounts to more than four additional school years — at the 180-day school year level — than graduates of 1910. In fact, during the 2007-2008 school year, the 20 districts in Michigan with the lowest average MEAP scores averaged 30 more hours of instructional time than the 20 districts with the highest average MEAP scores.
Average length of school year and average length of school day, by selected characteristics: United States, 2001-02. (Standard Errors for this table). 
The typical school day is from 9 a.m. to 3:30 p.m., and lunch is eaten at school. Students are required to attend school for at least eleven years, but they usually attend for twelve years. The average class size is eighteen students and there are about six computers per classroom. On average, there are about twenty-eight students in a classroom. Students are required to wear uniforms during the nine years of their formal education, from ages 6 to 15, and supply their own lunches and snacks. Students then begin college at age 15. The school year in Costa Rica runs from February to December.
1 The two surveys’ findings vary somewhat in regard to recess time, but both reported average recess time in the range of 24–30 minutes per day. 2  As noted above, the CDC survey reported that elementary students were getting an average of 30.2 minutes of recess each day (SHPPS 2006). According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), as recently as 2006, 96.8 percent of elementary schools still had regularly scheduled recess in at least one grade, and the average allotted time was 30.2 minutes per day (Lee et al 2007).
The average school day in the United States varies from state to state, but most stays require approximately 180 days for the school year to be complete. Each state’s Department of Education determines its own minimum school day length and stipulations for fulfilling the 180 days. The way states add this time up can get complicated, but typically if schools or districts choose to add time to the legal minimum school day, the day would be considered extended. “It was exhausting,” he says of those first two years. But, the school was “able to offer longer class periods, build in restroom breaks and student celebrations, and provide teachers with time for meetings and planning time inside the school day so that we had less out-of-school-time meetings.”.
In elementary school and junior high school, an average school day lasts between 8.15 a.m. and 3 p.m. In high school days can run a bit longer, but rarely past 4 p.m. As good as schools in Sweden are they are not that great and have been sliding down the ladder big time for more than 10 years. 