Under the Local Government Act 1989, the function of local government is very broad. Section 1 of the Act and Section 3A of the Act state that local government’s purpose is ‘…the peace, order and good governance…’ of their municipal district. The laws made by local governments are called local laws and cover issues such as the activities permitted on public land, animal management, and use of infrastructure. Local governments are also responsible for enforcing local laws and other legislation over which they have authority.
Whereas the federal government and state governments share power in countless ways, a local government must be granted power by the state. In general, mayors, city councils, and other governing bodies are directly elected by the people. Under the Tenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, all powers not granted to the federal government are reserved for the states and the people. All state governments are modeled after the federal government and consist of three branches: executive, legislative, and judicial.
Definition. An administrative body for a small geographic area, such as a city, town, county, or state. A local government will typically only have control over their specific geographical region, and can not pass or enforce laws that will affect a wider area.
State & Local Government. Powers not granted to the federal government are reserved for states and the people, which are divided between state and local governments. Most Americans have more daily contact with their state and local governments than with the federal government. Under the Tenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, all powers not granted to the federal government are reserved for the states and the people. All state governments are modeled after the federal government and consist of three branches: executive, legislative, and judicial.
In Australia, there are three levels of government: local, state and federal. Local government is the first level and is responsible for matters close to local communities. Victorian local governments are established under the provisions of the Local Government Act 1989.
The government is giving local councils more power to decide how to spend public money in their areas so they can meet local people’s needs. At the same time, the government is helping to make sure Council Tax payers get value for money by making councils more transparent and accountable. 
As with state governments, the citizens of an area elect most of their local government officials. This includes mayors, county commissioners, city councils, sheriffs and many other local government positions at both the county and city levels. Let's first take a look at county government. County government is the public administration of a county, borough or parish. Usually, county governments are the largest political subdivision within a state.
By contrast, in local government the mayor is not only the leader of the councillors, but is also responsible for managing both the council meeting and the conduct of councillors, as well as discharging their responsibilities as a councillor. Local government is the first level and is responsible for matters close to local communities. Victorian local governments are established under the provisions of the Local Government Act 1989.
Full Definition of LOCAL GOVERNMENT. : the government of a specific local area constituting a subdivision of a major political unit (as a nation or state); also: the body of persons constituting such a government. See local government defined for English-language learners. ADVERTISE
local government. noun. Tweet. : the government that controls and makes decisions for a local area (such as a town, city, or county). : the government of a specific local area constituting a subdivision of a major political unit (as a nation or state); also: the body of persons constituting such a government. See local government defined for English-language learners.