This laxative is typically used once a day. You can take it any time during the day. If you forget to take your MiraLAX dose, take it later in the day. Do not take a double dose of this laxative, or use it more often unless your healthcare provider tells you to do so. Also, do not take MiraLAX for more than seven days, unless a healthcare provider advises you to do so. If you do not have a bowel movement right away, do not take more than the recommended dosage. Typically, this laxative will cause a bowel movement within one to three days. (Click MiraLAX Dosage for more details on how often you can take MiraLAX, as well as specific dosing guidelines for adults.
Miralax can produce bowels movements within 1-3 days of the initial dose. Do not use Miralax for more than 7 days without consulting the doctor. Call your doctor if you are still constipated or irregular after using this medication for 7 days in a row. Frequent or excessive use without the doctor's approval can upset the body's chemical balance and lead to dependence on laxatives. A: Miralax (polyethylene glycol) is an osmotic laxative used to treat constipation. Miralax works by bringing water into the stool which softens the stool and helps it to be passed. Miralax is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for occasional
This product should be used for 7 days or less or as directed by a physician. Prolonged, frequent or excessive use of MiraLax (polyethylene glycol 3350 - otc) may result in electrolyte imbalance and dependence on laxatives. Frequently Asked Questions. MiraLax (polyethylene glycol 3350 - otc) softens the stool and increases the frequency of bowel movements by retaining water in the stool. It should always be taken by mouth after being dissolved in 8 ounces of water, juice, soda, coffee, or tea.
Miralax can be used periodically long-term. It should only be used for 14 days with a 2-4 week period of abstinence between use. Adverse reactions can occur with any drug, even over-the-counter medications. Some of these are mild such as a stomach upset, which may be avoided by taking the medication with food. Miralax is available as a Powder. This drug is also available as another trade name. Please click here to see the page on CoLyte, GoLYTELY. This drug is not available in a generic form.
Miralax should be used until a child can easily pass stools daily that are a 3-4 on the scale below. Most children need to be on the Miralax for 6-12 months. It is important to always mix PEG in this proportion: One capful (17g) to 8 oz. liquid. If you wish, you can mix more than 8 oz. at a time. For example, if you make 8 cups (2 quarts) of liquid with 8 capfuls of PEG. Keep this in the refrigerator and pour the dose from this supply.
DRUG DESCRIPTION. A white powder for reconstitution. MiraLax (polyethylene glycol 3350, NF) is a synthetic polyglycol having an average molecular weight of 3350. The actual molecular weight is not less than 90.0 percent and not greater than 110.0 percent of the nominal value. 
How to use Miralax. Take by mouth usually once daily, or as directed by your doctor or the directions on the product package. If you are prescribed the individual packets, mix the powder as directed by your doctor or pharmacist. If you are using the bulk bottle, use the provided cap to measure the prescribed dose. Mix the powder with a glass (4-8 ounces/120-240 milliliters) of liquid such as water, juice, soda, coffee, or tea. Before drinking the solution, stir the powder well until it completely dissolves.
It may take 2 to 4 days after you have started this medication to have a bowel movement. Do not increase your dose or take it more frequently than prescribed. Also, do not use this medication for more than 2 weeks unless directed by your doctor. Tell your doctor if your condition persists or worsens. Extended use or overuse may result in dependence on laxatives and chronic constipation. If you are using the bulk bottle, use the provided cap to measure the prescribed dose. Mix the powder with a glass (4-8 ounces/120-240 milliliters) of liquid such as water, juice, soda, coffee, or tea. Before drinking the solution, stir the powder well until it completely dissolves.
Only one dose per day is necessary. Do not switch laxatives during use as this can cause side effects or medication interactions to occur. If you're not home during the day to monitor whether or not the Miralax is working, ask a neighbor or family member to check on your cat. A cat cannot have the same dosage a person would take. Measure 1/8 teaspoon of the Miralax and dissolve into water as per the package instructions. If your cat will drink the Miralax mixture allow him too, but he needs to drink all of it. If he will not drink the mixture, you need to administer it with a syringe.
Specifically, there is only one standard recommended dose -- 17 grams of MiraLAX powder dissolved in four to eight ounces of liquid and swallowed once a day. You can mix the powder with any cold, hot, or room-temperature beverage, such as water, juice, coffee, or tea. 