No one knows. My two accessories were shipped direct from China. Each took 3 days. My iPad was pre-ordered and shipped from a California distribution center (others had there's shipped from other distribution centers). Got it the next day. That might have been a special procedure for pre-orders. I have never used other than free shipping for any Apple product and never had an exorbitant wait
1 The average travel time for a container vessel from Asia to the U.S. is between two weeks and a month. 2  Documentation, customs clearance, handling, and inland shipping can add 17 to 33 days to the total shipping time from most emerging market regions, and another 6 days once goods reach the United States. 
This is a safe place to Ship from China to USA, Canada, UK, Europe, Australia, Russia, Central and South America, and other Countries in the World. China Shipping: Express Prices to USA, Europe, Canada, UK. Written 11 Oct • View Upvotes. But there are still cheaper way how to ship from U.S.A. to China than USPS First Class Mail. You can probably get on 50% of the cost for light packages.
Here’s how to check on your iPad mini, even if Apple hasn’t sent you a shipping reference yet. First, the caveat: we can only confirm this works if Apple shipped your iPad mini using UPS and you live in the United States. A similar procedure might work for other delivery carriers, though. Here’s how you can see where your iPad mini is right now: 1. Go to UPS.com’s Track By Reference Page. 2. 
Chinese EMS and postal service has much lower rates. But there are still cheaper way how to ship from U.S.A. to China than USPS First Class Mail. You can probably get on 50% of the cost for light packages.
That being said, the cheapest way to ship a 1lb parcel from the US to China is using USPS-it will cost you $16.75 if you use First Class Mail. Unfortunately, if you go with 1st Class you don't really get any guarantees: no tracking number, no signature upon receipt and no guaranteed arrival date. But there are still cheaper way how to ship from U.S.A. to China than USPS First Class Mail. You can probably get on 50% of the cost for light packages.
Indeed, iPhone and iPad smuggling is a major industry in China, with devices coming in from Hong Kong, which is run by the government as a “special economic zone,” enter the border into mainland China strapped to legs, bellies, or hidden in luggage and are sold across the country. But there are other reasons why Apple set the iPhone 5C price is where it is. “I don’t think Apple is trying to compete with all the low cost suppliers in China which are selling at basically cost. Apple won’t do that,” Gold added.
Most forwarders can handle shipping from China to the US. Actually, they do shipping all over the world. Be sure to get the size, weight & other info about your shipping cartons from your supplier. This info is important in order to get you a price quote. You can get an shipping insurance quotes from them as well. My name is Marc Possoff and I have questions about shipping costs from China to the USA as I am new to importing. Currently I am wanting to start importing custom embroidered baseball caps from China. I have gotten info about duty on this product at 7.5%.
Most tech hardware, including the iPhone and iPad, that ships from the Original Design Manufacturers (ODMs) in and around Shanghai ends up in Anchorage where UPS and FedEx have built major logistical hubs to expedite customs. Why your iPad comes via Anchorage. Global cargo carriers have built multi-million dollar logistics centers in Anchorage, Alaska because of its advantages in range vs. payload and spherical coordinates. By Jason D. O'Grady for The Apple Core |.
Why Apple's cheaper iPhone 5C costs $184 more in China than the USA. John Koetsier. Tags: Apple, Brian White, China, Hong Kong, iPhone 5C, iPhone 5C price, Jack Gold, Michael Morgan, top-stories. Above: iPhone 5C. Image Credit: Apple. From VentureBeat. It seems like the ultimate indignity. But there are other reasons why Apple set the iPhone 5C price is where it is. “I don’t think Apple is trying to compete with all the low cost suppliers in China which are selling at basically cost. Apple won’t do that,” Gold added.