Average Living Room Dimensions. Average living room dimensions in the US is 16 x 16 feet (L x W). This figure is applicable for medium to large homes. Small houses usually have 12 x 12 measurements. Some modern homes like living rooms 10 x 12 or 12 x 14. In these homes, more space is given to family rooms. One of the reasons why average living room dimensions is not always followed is the design variation. In large homes, dens are sometimes used in lieu of a living / family room. They are usually ten by twelve or twelve by fourteen feet.
Industry wide surveys show that the average size of a great room is about 550 square feet. A theater room will vary depending on the size of a persons house.  A theater room will have to be big enough to fit a big screen and  some chairs. You will want your theate … r room to be at least 30 x  30.
1/15/12 Name: __________________________ Room Sizes The size of a room is determined by the function of the room and by the furnishings that go into the room. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Industry wide surveys show that the average size of a great room is about 550 square feet. This is variable from about 400 square foot to about 750 square. A theater room will vary depending on the size of a persons house.  A theater room will have to be big enough to fit a big screen and  some chairs. You will want your theate … r room to be at least 30 x  30.
In the American home, the average size of a living room is about  250 to 300 square feet. The room is generally slightly rectangular  in shape. A theater room will vary depending on the size of a persons house.  A theater room will have to be big enough to fit a big screen and  some chairs. You will want your theate … r room to be at least 30 x  30.
Large Homes. Large homes, on average, have large, rectangular living rooms, 18 feet long and 13 feet wide. Though this would seem to be barely larger than the living room in a small home, consider that 6 feet is enough room to fit an extra couch; such a room could hold two more couches than a 12-by-12-foot living room. National Average. As of 2011, Dimensions Guide estimates that the average living room is a 16-by-16-foot square. Depending on the size of your home --- including the number of people in your household --- it may make sense for your living room to be a different size or shape
Large living room. If you're lucky enough to have a living room size with dimensions larger than 15 x 20ft (4.6 x 6.0m) then there is the possibility of bringing the sofas away from the walls, having deeper, more luxurious sofas and creating secondary furniture groupings. Living Room Size. So let's have a look at some living room sizes. We go from very small through to large. For each living room size I've taken into account a conversation area (a square conversation space) and an extra 3ft (0.9m) for circulation. All the dimensions I talk about are for a rectangular shaped room.
Dining Room. For a small family, a cozy dining room would have dimensions of ten feet by twelve feet; for a medium dining room, this would be around twelve feet by sixteen feet while a large dining area would be somewhere around fourteen feet by eighteen feet. Master’s Bedroom. Common Room Sizes for the Master’s Bedroom are: small, twelve feet by fourteen feet; medium, fourteen feet by twenty feet; and for a large one, sixteen feet by twenty-four feet.