On Friday, November 22, 1963, 35th U.S. President John Fitzgerald Kennedy was shot first in the neck, and then on the right side of his head. The shooting took place at 12:30 p.m. Central Standard Time, in Dallas, Texas. JFK sustained a head shot, which splattered bits of brain all over the back seat of the car he was riding in, including on his widow. Unique among assassinated U.S. Presidents, Kennedy was killed instantly.
Where did John F. Kennedy get shot at on his body?   On Friday, November 22, 1963, 35th U.S. President John Fitzgerald Kennedy was shot first in the neck, and then on the right side of his head. The shooting took place at … 12:30 p.m. Central Standard Time, in Dallas, Texas. He was pronounced dead a half hour later, at Parkland Memorial Hospital, at 1:00p.m.
Secret Service agent George Hickey is seen brandishing a rifle as the limousine carrying a wounded President Kennedy, with agent Clint Hill on the back, speeds away from Dealey Plaza in Dallas on Nov. 22, 1963. One theory is that Hickey accidentally shot JFK. 
The assassination of Robert Francis Bobby Kennedy, a United States Senator and brother of assassinated President John Fitzgerald Jack Kennedy, took place shortly after midnight on June 5, 1968, in Los Angeles, California, during the campaign season for the United States Presidential election, 1968. As with his brother John's death, Kennedy's assassination and the circumstances surrounding it have spawned a variety of conspiracy theories. As of 2015, Kennedy remains one of only two sitting United States Senators to be assassinated, the other being Huey Long.
at 11:00pm he was in the car and someone shot him. The JFK assassination took place around 12:30 PM (Central) on November 22, 1963. JFK was in an open roofed car driving down … Elm Street in Dealey Plaza in Dallas, Texas. JFK sustained a head shot, which splattered bits of brain all over the back seat of the car he was riding in, including on his widow. Unique among assassinated U.S. Presidents, Kennedy was killed instantly.
About This Site | Text Only. 1963: Kennedy shot dead in Dallas The President of the United States has been assassinated by a gunman in Dallas, Texas. John F Kennedy was hit in the head and throat when three shots were fired at his open-topped car. E-mail this story to a friend. 1963: Kennedy shot dead in Dallas The President of the United States has been assassinated by a gunman in Dallas, Texas. 1963: Kennedy shot dead in Dallas. John F Kennedy was hit in the head and throat when three shots were fired at his open-topped car.
Post. Share. On November 22, 1963, the youth and idealism of America in the 1960s faltered as its young President, John F. Kennedy, was assassinated by Lee Harvey Oswald while riding in a motorcade through Dealey Plaza in Dallas, Texas. Two days later, Oswald was shot and killed by Jack Ruby during a prisoner transfer. The Warren Commission found: 1  Lee Harvey Oswald was the lone assassin and conspirator in the death of President John F. Kennedy. 2  A single bullet caused non-fatal wounds to both Kennedy and Connelly. 3  A second bullet caused Kennedy’s fatal head wound.
John F. Kennedy was 46 years of age when he was assassinated on the 22nd of November, 1963. A link can be found below. John Fitzgerald Kennedy, the thirty-fifth President of t … he United States, was assassinated at 12:30 p.m. Central Standard Time on Friday, November 22, 1963, in Dealey Plaza, Dallas, Texas. JFK sustained a head shot, which splattered bits of brain all over the back seat of the car he was riding in, including on his widow. Unique among assassinated U.S. Presidents, Kennedy was killed instantly.
John Fitzgerald Kennedy, the 35th President of the United States, was assassinated at 12:30 p.m. Central Standard Time (18:30 UTC) on Friday, November 22, 1963, in Dealey Plaza, Dallas, Texas. 