Phosphorus is one of the most important minerals that help the  correct functioning of the human body. It's primarily used in the  repair and production of body tissues and … cells, so it teams up  with another mineral, calcium, to provide strength and structure. Phosphorus is an essential mineral that is usually found in nature combined with oxygen as phosphate.
Next to calcium, phosphorus is the most abundant mineral in the body. These 2 important nutrients work closely together to build strong bones and teeth. About 85% of the body's phosphorus is in bones and teeth. Phosphorous is also present in smaller amounts in cells and tissues throughout the body. Phosphorus helps filter out waste in the kidneys and plays an essential role in how the body stores and uses energy. It also helps reduce muscle pain after a hard workout. When there is more phosphorus than calcium in the body, the body will use calcium stored in bones. This can cause osteoporosis (brittle bones) and lead to gum and teeth problems. A balance of dietary calcium and phosphorus can lower the risk of osteoporosis.
Most of the phosphate in the human body is in bone, but phosphate-containing molecules (phospholipids) are also important components of cell membranes and lipoprotein particles, such as HDL and LDL (good and bad cholesterols, respectively). Phosphorus is an essential mineral that is usually found in nature combined with oxygen as phosphate.
Phosphate is a charged particle (ion) that contains the mineral phosphorus. The body needs phosphorus to build and repair bones and teeth, help nerves function, and make muscles contract. Most (about 85%) of the phosphorus contained in phosphate is found in bones. The rest of it is stored in tissues throughout the body. A high level of phosphate in the blood is usually caused by a kidney problem. The amount of phosphate in the blood affects the level of calcium in the blood. Calcium and phosphate in the body react in opposite ways: as blood calcium levels rise, phosphate levels fall.
Most body phosphorus is located in bones and teeth. Phosphorus is an essential mineral primarily used for growth and repair of body cells and tissues. According to the University of Maryland Medical Center, all body cells contain phosphorus, with 85 percent found in bones and teeth. There, together with calcium, phosphorus provides structure and strength. Phosphorus is also required for a variety of biochemical processes including energy production and pH regulation
Phosphorus is a mineral found in the body. About 85 percent of the phosphorus in the body is in bones. Phosphorus is the body’s next most abundant mineral after calcium. The body uses phosphorus to: 1  form strong bones and teeth. 2  maintain a normal pH balance. 3  get oxygen to tissues. 4  create energy. 5  change protein, fat and carbohydrate into energy. 
Phosphorus is the most abundant mineral found in the body, next to  calcium. Almost 85 percent of the phosphorus in the body is located  in the teeth and bones. Phosphorus i … s also found in cells and  tissues throughout the body. Phosphorus is an essential mineral that is usually found in nature combined with oxygen as phosphate.
Energy Production. Phosphorus is commonly found in the body as phosphate. Phosphates play an important role in energy production as components of ATP, or adenosine triphosphate. ATP is readily used to fuel your body's many functions. According to the University of Maryland Medical Center, all body cells contain phosphorus, with 85 percent found in bones and teeth. There, together with calcium, phosphorus provides structure and strength.
Phosphorus is required by the body for bone and teeth formation. Calcium alone can't build strong bones and tissues. New research shows calcium needs phosphorus to maximize its bone-strengthening benefits, and taking a lot of calcium supplements without enough phosphorus could be a waste of money. Phosphorus deficiency results in bone loss just as calcium deficiency does. Phosphorus toxicity can result in twitching, jerking, and convulsions. A diet consisting of junk food can have too much phosphorus and this effects the body's processing of calcium.