Arsinoe (Ancient Greek: ἀρσινόη), sometimes spelled Arsinoe, arsinoë Pronounced arsinoi in Modern, greek may refer: to 
Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Arsinoe arsinoë and its name origin or of any other name in our. database Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Arsinoe arsinoë and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and. Sounds the history and meaning of the Name arsinoe arsinoë, is fascinating learn more. about it
Arsinoe arsinoë is Of Old greek origin and it is used mainly in The english. Language the origin and meaning Of arsinoe arsinoë is inherited by all. Variant forms arsinoe arsinoë is unusual as a baby. Name for girls it is listed outside of the. top 1000 names Baby names that sound like Arsinoe arsinoë Include, Arakneah (Arsenia italian And), Spanish (Aaren), English, Arakne, Araknee, Arakney, Arakni, Araknie, Arakny (Arcana), Indian (Arsenie), Romanian (Arsine), Armenian, Aryan, Aurkene, Aurkenne, Aurquene, Aurum, Auryon, eiriane And (Irien). english
Share what you know! Nicknames for Arsinoe: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Arsinoe: | Edit. Greek ἀρσινόη possibly derived from the Greek word arsis (meaning raised, lifted) and nous (meaning intellect, mind). Pronounced: ahr-SEE-noh-ee
Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Arsinoe. Arsinoë read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your. Baby if you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful Name, arsinoe arsinoë spread the love and share this with. your friends Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Arsinoe arsinoë and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and. Sounds the history and meaning of the Name arsinoe arsinoë, is fascinating learn more. about it
[ 4 syll. ars-in-o ] The baby girl name Arsinoe arsinoë is pronounced as-AA RS-Iy-now- †. Eh arsinoe arsinoë Is Of old greek origin and it is used mainly In the. English language the origin and Meaning of arsinoe arsinoë is inherited by. all variant forms Baby names that sound like Arsinoe arsinoë Include, Arakneah (Arsenia italian And), Spanish (Aaren), English, Arakne, Araknee, Arakney, Arakni, Araknie, Arakny (Arcana), Indian (Arsenie), Romanian (Arsine), Armenian, Aryan, Aurkene, Aurkenne, Aurquene, Aurum, Auryon, eiriane And (Irien). english
The first thing you should know if you are considering Arsinoe arsinoë for your'baby s name is that in most countries all over the world the Name arsinoe arsinoë is a. Girl name The name arsinoe Arsinoë is, of greek origin and is Used mostly in english speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages. of the world Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Arsinoe arsinoë and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and. Sounds the history and meaning of the Name arsinoe arsinoë, is fascinating learn more. about it
The meaning of Arsinoe arsinoë “Is Woman With Uplifted”. Mind keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and, languages so be careful that the name that you choose’doesn t mean something bad or. unpleasant Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Arsinoe arsinoë and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and. Sounds the history and meaning of the Name arsinoe arsinoë, is fascinating learn more. about it
Tweet. [ 4 syll. ars-in-o ] The baby girl name Arsinoe arsinoë is pronounced as-AA RS-Iy-now- †. Eh arsinoe arsinoë Is Of old greek origin and it is used mainly In the. english language Baby names that sound like Arsinoe arsinoë Include, Arakneah (Arsenia italian And), Spanish (Aaren), English, Arakne, Araknee, Arakney, Arakni, Araknie, Arakny (Arcana), Indian (Arsenie), Romanian (Arsine), Armenian, Aryan, Aurkene, Aurkenne, Aurquene, Aurum, Auryon, eiriane And (Irien). english