Thawing a turkey in your refrigerator takes about 1 day for every 4-lbs of turkey, so if you want to defrost a 12-lb bird in the refrigerator, it will take about 3 days. Method #2: Place the turkey breast-side down in your kitchen sink and cover it with cold water. Yes, cold water. Yes, cold water. Placing a frozen turkey in warm water will begin to cook it partially, and that's not what we want (see number 2, above). Change the water in the sink every 30 minutes or so, replacing it with cold water every time.
If you're thawing your turkey on the kitchen counter, the outside of the bird will reach those temperatures pretty quickly, but the inside will still be frozen solid. Instead, the optimal temperature for thawing a turkey is around 40 Fahrenheit (4 Celsius). If you've managed to forget to thaw your turkey, there's no reason to despair. You can cook the turkey still frozen. And here's the kicker --It's actually safer because there are no uncooked juices that can spill on the preparation area [source: Sternweis ].
Thawing out a turkey is actually pretty simple. There really isn’t that much to it, but you do need to make sure you start the process in time to have it completed in time to cook it low and slow. There are basically two safe ways to thaw a frozen turkey. You can defrost it either in the refrigerator or in cold water. If you choose the refrigerator method, you need to start early. And by early I mean WAY early. Most experts (me) say to figure on at least one day of thawing for every four pounds of turkey. 
How To Thaw. Safely thawing a frozen turkey is one of the most important steps in preparing a meal. There are two recommended methods, depending on the amount of time available. Refrigerator thawing is preferred and the least labor-intensive but requires more time. Cold water thawing takes less time but requires more attention. 
Frozen Turkey. You can safely cook a frozen turkey without thawing it first. A frozen bird will take 50 percent longer to cook than a thawed or fresh turkey. Remove the giblets with tongs or a fork while the turkey is cooking. In the Refrigerator. The safest way to thaw a frozen turkey is in the refrigerator. Keep the turkey in its original packaging, and place a pan underneath to catch any drips. Allow for a thawing time of 24 hours for every four to five pounds of turkey. Once the turkey has thawed, it can be kept in the refrigerator for one to two days
And because you should cook the turkey soon after it's thawed, you may even need to thaw smaller birds overnight. You need to be sure that you have some way of keeping the water cold overnight, because thawing turkey in warm water means a bacteria farm that can give you food poisoning. Here's how you do it: 1  Keep the turkey in its original wrapping. 2  Place the turkey on a tray, so that if the packaging does leak, it stays in the tray. 3  Place the turkey on the lowest shelf in the fridge. 4  Thawing turkey in the fridge takes about 5 hours per pound.
That said, thawing out the turkey ahead of time is the best route to take. The three most common ways to thaw out a turkey are in the refrigerator, in cold water or in the microwave. We'll give you a crash course in turkey thawing on the next page. If you've managed to forget to thaw your turkey, there's no reason to despair. You can cook the turkey still frozen. And here's the kicker --It's actually safer because there are no uncooked juices that can spill on the preparation area [source: Sternweis ].
You also don't want water to seep in to your turkey and make it watery. Completely submerge the turkey in ice-cold water. The water should be as close as possible to 40F. You can use the sink or a basin to thaw the turkey. A sink is handy because it makes changing the water a breeze. A cooler is an even better choice. Here's how you do it: 1  Keep the turkey in its original wrapping. 2  Place the turkey on a tray, so that if the packaging does leak, it stays in the tray. 3  Place the turkey on the lowest shelf in the fridge. 4  Thawing turkey in the fridge takes about 5 hours per pound.
SO I just took the Turkey out this morning, put it in the fridge, and it's still pretty much frozen! How can I defrost it safely over night so I can... show more I bought the Turkey a week ago and I put it in the freezer. I asked my roommates to take it out 2 days ago, while I was away, but of course, they didn't.