Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Requirements and Duties. Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a chief financial officer (CFO). Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about degree programs, job duties and necessary experience to find out if this is the career for you. View 10 Popular Schools ».
job title, keywords or company. city, state or zip. If you are an employer seeking qualified job seekers for your Chief Financial Officer position, read our sample job description below and revise it to meet your company's specific job duties and requirements. If you are a job seeker looking for a Chief Financial Officer position, use our sample job description below to see what job skills and experiences employers are seeking. Chief Financial Officer.
For other uses, see CFO (disambiguation) . The chief financial officer (CFO) or chief financial and operating officer (CFOO) is a corporate officer primarily responsible for managing the financial risks of the corporation. This officer is also responsible for financial planning and record-keeping, as well as financial reporting to higher management. In some sectors the CFO is also responsible for analysis of data. The CFO reports directly to the president/chief executive officer (CEO) and directly assists the chief operating officer (COO) on all strategic and tactical matters as they relate to budget management, cost–benefit analysis, forecasting needs and the securing of new funding. Contents.
Chief Financial Officer & Finance Job Descriptions. Chief financial officer (CFO) roles—and the organizational structures in which CFOs operate—vary significantly across organizations.
BREAKING DOWN 'Chief Financial Officer-CFO'. The CFO reports to the president, but has a major say in the company's capital structure, investments and how the company manages its income and expenses. The CFO works closely with other executives and plays a major role in any company's success, especially in the long run. While the average yearly salary of a chief financial officer (CFO) can vary based on a number of factors, the median compensation ...
In this sample job description for a nonprofit chief financial officer, the organization runs programs nationally and has complex funding sources. The CFO focuses strictly on finance, accounting, and the investment activities of the organization. Chief financial officer (CFO) roles—and the organizational structures in which CFOs operate—vary significantly across organizations.
Position Description: Chief Financial Officer (CFO). Comments: The content of the following job description is based on the assumption that the CFO has proper staffing to address accounting and treasury functions. 
The Chief Financial Officers Act, enacted in 1990, created a chief financial officer in each of 23 federal agencies. This was intended to improve the government's financial management and develop standards of financial performance and disclosure. The CFO reports directly to the president/chief executive officer (CEO) and directly assists the chief operating officer (COO) on all strategic and tactical matters as they relate to budget management, cost–benefit analysis, forecasting needs and the securing of new funding. Contents.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Chief Financial Officer in the United States is $303,080 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Chief Financial Officer in the United States are expected to make less than $303,080. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $303,080. 
DEFINITION of 'Chief Financial Officer-CFO'. The senior manager responsible for overseeing the financial activities of an entire company. The CFO's duties include financial planning and monitoring cash flow. He or she analyzes the company's financial strengths and weaknesses and suggests plans for improvement. While the average yearly salary of a chief financial officer (CFO) can vary based on a number of factors, the median compensation ...