Confidence votes 1.2K. The only veins in an adult that carry oxygenated blood are the pulmonary veins, which carry blood from the lungs to the heart after it has been oxygenated. All other veins in the body carry relatively de-oxygenated blood. However in fetal circulation, the umbilical vein also carries oxygenated blood. The pulmonary veins carry oxygenated blood from the lungs, back to the left atrium so … it may be pumped through the left ventricle into the aorta and out into the arterial circulation.
The only veins in an adult that carry oxygenated blood are the  pulmonary veins, which carry blood from the lungs to the heart  after it has been oxygenated. All other veins … in the body carry  relatively de-oxygenated blood.   However in fetal circulation, the umbilical vein also carries  oxygenated blood.   Otherwise, arteries carry oxygenated blood to the body from  the aorta and heart. The exceptio … ns are: the pulmonary veins return blood from the lungs to the heart;the portal veins receive oxygenated blood from the pyloric, gastric, cystic, superior mesenteric, and splenic veins and carry it to the liver;the umbilical vein carries blood to the fetus from the mother's placenta.
All veins carry de-oxygenated blood except for the pulmonary vein, which carries oxygenated blood from the lungs directly to the heart. All arteries carry oxygenated blood exc … ept for the pulmonary artery, which carries deoxygenated blood from the heart directly to the lungs. The exceptio … ns are: the pulmonary veins return blood from the lungs to the heart;the portal veins receive oxygenated blood from the pyloric, gastric, cystic, superior mesenteric, and splenic veins and carry it to the liver;the umbilical vein carries blood to the fetus from the mother's placenta.
The pulmonary veins carry relatively oxygenated blood from the lungs to the heart. The superior and inferior venae cavae carry relatively deoxygenated blood from the upper and lower systemic circulations, respectively. The portal venous system is a series of veins or venules that directly connect two capillary beds. The arteries are perceived as carrying oxygenated blood to the tissues, while veins carry deoxygenated blood back to the heart. This is true of the systemic circulation, by far the larger of the two circuits of blood in the body, which transports oxygen from the heart to the tissues of the body.
Arteries carry blood (with oxygen) from your heart out to your body, while veins carry blood (without oxygen) from your body to your heart. Arteries are strong, flexible blood vessels that are able to expand (get bigger) and contract (get smaller). They expand as your heart beats, and contract between heartbeats. 
In the circulatory system, veins (from the Latin vena) are blood vessels that carry blood toward the heart. Most veins carry deoxygenated blood from the tissues back to the heart; exceptions are the pulmonary and umbilical veins, both of which carry oxygenated blood to the heart. In contrast to veins, arteries carry blood away from the heart. Veins are less muscular than arteries and are often closer to the skin. The arteries are perceived as carrying oxygenated blood to the tissues, while veins carry deoxygenated blood back to the heart. This is true of the systemic circulation, by far the larger of the two circuits of blood in the body, which transports oxygen from the heart to the tissues of the body.
Generally most veins carry deoxygenated blood. Arteries carry oxygenated blood. The correct way to think about it is that Veins carry blood to the heart, whilst arteries carry blood away from the heart. This means in most cases, the blood carried by veins will be deoxygenated, whilst the blood carried by arteries is oxygenated.
Systemic circulation carries oxygenated blood from the left ventricle, through the arteries, to the capillaries in the tissues of the body. From the tissue capillaries, the deoxygenated blood returns through a system of veins to the right atrium of the heart. Pulmonary Circulation. The circulation of the blood through the lungs. Pulmonary Veins. The veins that return the oxygenated blood from the lungs to the left atrium of the heart. Superior Vena Cava. The large vein that carries blood from the head, neck, arms, and chest to
Arteries carry oxygenated blood (with the exception of the pulmonary artery and umbilical artery). Veins carry deoxygenated blood (with the exception of pulmonary veins and umbilical vein). There are two types of blood vessels in the circulatory system of the body: arteries that carry oxygenated blood from the heart to various parts of the body and veins that carry blood towards the heart for purification.
All veins carry de-oxygenated blood except for the pulmonary vein, which carries oxygenated blood from the lungs directly to the heart. All arteries carry oxygenated blood exc … ept for the pulmonary artery, which carries deoxygenated blood from the heart directly to the lungs. The pulmonary veins carry oxygenated blood from the lungs, back to the left atrium so … it may be pumped through the left ventricle into the aorta and out into the arterial circulation.