Von Willebrand disease is a hereditary disorder. It is caused by an abnormal gene. Each cell of the body contains structures called chromosomes. A chromosome is a long chain of chemicals known as DNA. This DNA is arranged into about 25,000 units called genes which determine such things as the colour of a person’s eyes. Each cell contains 46 of these chromosomes arranged in 23 pairs. Von Willebrand disease is caused by a defect on chromosome 12. The defect could be on the chromosome 12 from the mother, on the chromosome 12 from the father, or on both. There are two ways of getting the hereditary form of VWD.
Mutations in the VWF gene that reduce the amount of von Willebrand factor cause type 1 von Willebrand disease. People with type 1 have varying amounts of von Willebrand factor in their bloodstream. Some people with a mild case of type 1 never experience a prolonged bleeding episode. Type 3 is the most severe and rarest form of the condition. The four subtypes of type 2 von Willebrand disease are intermediate in severity. Another form of the disorder, acquired von Willebrand syndrome, is not caused by inherited gene mutations.
Mutations in the VWF gene cause von Willebrand disease. The VWF gene provides instructions for making a blood clotting protein called von Willebrand factor, which is essential for the formation of blood clots. Type 3 is the most severe and rarest form of the condition. The four subtypes of type 2 von Willebrand disease are intermediate in severity. Another form of the disorder, acquired von Willebrand syndrome, is not caused by inherited gene mutations.
Von Willebrand disease (vWD) (/ˌfʌnˈvɪlɨbrɑːnt/) is the most common hereditary coagulation abnormality described in humans, although it can also be acquired as a result of other medical conditions. The von Willebrand factor is qualitatively normal and genetic testing of the von Willebrand gene and vWF protein reveals no mutational alteration. The defect lies in the qualitatively altered glycoprotein Ib (GPIb) receptor on the platelet membrane which increases its affinity to bind to the von Willebrand factor.
Von Willebrand's Disease (vWD). Von Willebrand's disease has been identified in a wide range of canine breeds, and is the most common of the inherited bleeding disorders. As with humans, there are three classifications of this disease, Types I, II, and III. Type III vWD is found in animals that have essentially no plasma vWF. The disease has been reported in many breeds of dog, and is generally diagnosed by an ELISA test for plasma vWF following a bleeding event. Five mutations have been identified that cause vWD in canines.
Genetic Test for Von Willebrand’s Disease. Von Willebrand’s disease is an inherited bleeding disorder. It is also one of the most common as it is found in a wide variety of dog breeds. In von Willebrand’s disease bleeding time is greatly increased due to a malfunction in the process in which a blood clot is formed. Some of the breeds which now have a test for von Willebrand’s disease Type 1 include: Bernese Mountain Dogs, Doberman Pinschers, German Pinschers, Kerry Blue Terriers, Manchester Terriers, Papillons, Pembroke Welsh Corgis, and Poodles (all varieties).
Von Willebrand disease is a bleeding disorder that slows the blood clotting process, causing prolonged bleeding after an injury. People with this condition often experience easy bruising, long-lasting nosebleeds, and excessive bleeding or oozing following an injury, surgery, or dental work. Type 3 is the most severe and rarest form of the condition. The four subtypes of type 2 von Willebrand disease are intermediate in severity. Another form of the disorder, acquired von Willebrand syndrome, is not caused by inherited gene mutations.
Most cases of type 1 and type 2 von Willebrand disease are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Type 3 is the most severe and rarest form of the condition. The four subtypes of type 2 von Willebrand disease are intermediate in severity. Another form of the disorder, acquired von Willebrand syndrome, is not caused by inherited gene mutations.
There are three forms of vWD: hereditary, acquired, and pseudo or platelet type. There are three types of hereditary vWD: vWD type 1, vWD type 2, and vWD type 3. Within the three inherited types of vWD there are various subtypes. Platelet type vWD is also an inherited condition. vWD type 1 is the most common type of the disorder and those that have it are typically asymptomatic or may experience mild symptoms such as nosebleeds although there may be severe symptoms in some cases. The von Willebrand factor is qualitatively normal and genetic testing of the von Willebrand gene and vWF protein reveals no mutational alteration. The defect lies in the qualitatively altered glycoprotein Ib (GPIb) receptor on the platelet membrane which increases its affinity to bind to the von Willebrand factor.