Nazia's are very outgoing once you get to meet her,she's also a undercover freak so you gotta watch her. Nazia's are unique you can tell by the name, she yurn for attention and always wants to be in a relationship. Nazia's never like to be alone they love to be around people. They are loyal so once you meet one keep them. Nazia's are good friends once you proove to them your not fake. When you meet Nazia, You'll Love her. A beautiful girl! The name means 'Pride' so she is hardworking to bring that status to her family. All Nazia's are fantastic and they don't open up easily so you will have to give them some time.
(viewable to Premium Members only). Below is a brief analysis of the first name only. For an analysis of your full name and destiny, see our full free Name and Birth Date Report service for further details. Your first name of Nazia has made you good-natured, friendly, and kind. People like you at first meeting. Diplomacy is one of your strong points. Because your mind is quick and intelligent and because you are very considerate, you are able to put others at ease by turning aside contentious issues
You have searched for Nazia meaning in urdu or نازیہ meaning in english in muslim baby name databasae, remember names selection is very important in the life of every muslim family with new born babies, so choose the best names according to meaning, history and characteristics associated with each name. Muslim Baby and Islamic names database provides meaning of Islamic muslim baby boys or girls (male and female) names both in english and urdu, if there are any errors, please report to the editor or submit additional meanings, names and history of muslim names that you think should be included in our database.
Show similar names Show variant names. Name Nazia generally means Princess or Queen, is of Indian origin, Name Nazia is a Feminine (or Girl) name. Person with name Nazia are mainly Muslim by religion. Name Nazia belongs to rashi Vrushik (Scorpio) with dominant planet Mars (Mangal) 
List of Muslim baby names, Muslim baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Muslim names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Muslim baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Nazia in Muslim origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame details. Personality (Persona) Number : Soul Urge Number : We added Numerology Calculation to make it more interactive.The information provided here is not recommended by babynology.com. It is a matter of an individual's belief.We also request you not to send us any request/query regarding numerology.
Nazia (P): Optimistic and full of hope nazia means pride in arabic. Source(s): http://www.guyana.org/features/muslim_na... http://wiki.answers.com/Q/What_is_the_me... Nazi means  naz karne wali  Or in English one who is proud of her achievements. In fact naz is a soft word and is used in good sense whereas pride is a bad word and used in a bad sense. I hope I have made the meaning clear. J a v e d.
Nazis name ki larkiaan bohat achi hoti hein ....My wife name is Nazia....she is very good ...There for I love you Nazia my wife. My wife name is Nazia nd she is so cute and kind wife. I love her so much. My name is nazia. i love my name. my name is very beautiful. my sweetheart wife name is nazia, i love her so much. i m very good girl. Nazia Nam ki larkiya bht khubsoorat hoti h.. Whom I love her name is also same.. 