Crohn's disease facts. 1  Crohn's disease is a chronic inflammatory disease of the intestines. 2  The cause of Crohn's disease is unknown. 3  Crohn's disease can cause ulcers in the small intestine, colon, or both. 4  Abdominal pain, diarrhea, vomiting, fever, and weight loss are symptoms of Crohn's disease.
Crohn’s disease is a chronic (long-term) condition that causes inflammation of the lining of the digestive system. In this video, an expert discusses the symptoms and treatment options for the condition.
Crohn's disease is an ongoing condition that causes inflammation of the digestive tract, or the GI (gastrointestinal) tract (the gut). Crohn's disease may also be called ileitis or enteritis. Crohn's disease can affect any part of the gut, from the mouth all the way down to the anus.
Crohn's disease (sometimes called Crohn disease) is a chronic inflammatory disease of the intestines. It primarily causes ulcerations (breaks in the lining) of the small and large intestines, but can affect the digestive system anywhere from the mouth to the anus.
In some people with Crohn's disease, only the last segment of the small intestine (ileum) is affected. In others, the disease is confined to the colon (part of the large intestine). The most common areas affected by Crohn's disease are the last part of the small intestine and the colon.
Crohn’s disease is an inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). As the name implies, inflammatory bowel diseases cause inflammation of the intestinal tract. The intestinal tract includes your mouth, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine (colon), rectum, and anus.
Crohn's disease is a lifelong inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) . Parts of the digestive system get swollen and have deep sores called ulcers. Crohn's disease usually is found in the last part of the small intestine and the first part of the large intestine.
Introduction. Crohn's disease is a long-term condition that causes inflammation of the lining of the digestive system. Inflammation can affect any part of the digestive system, from the mouth to the back passage, but most commonly occurs in the last section of the small intestine (ileum) or the large intestine (colon).