Processed Foods. Processed foods tend to have a lot of sodium, and people with hypothyroidism should avoid sodium, Frechman says. Having an underactive thyroid increases a person's risk for high blood pressure, and too much sodium further increases this risk.
The University Medical Center recommends eating whole grains to help reduce symptoms of hypothyroidism. For best results, replace enriched white and wheat breads, cereals, pasta and snack foods in your diet with complex carbohydrates, such as whole grains.
Blueberries are another great food to eat for low thyroid function. Add blueberries to your daily thyroid diet plan. They are packed with antioxidants, vitamins such as Vitamin C, B complex, Vitamin E, Vitamin A, selenium, iron, zinc. and copper. The blueberry is believed to help reduce the fat in the belly area.
People with hypothyroidism may want to consider minimizing their intake of gluten, a protein found in foods processed from wheat, barley, rye, and other grains, says Ruth Frechman, RDN, a dietitian and nutritionist in the Los Angeles area and a spokesperson for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics.
If you sense that gluten-containing foods, such as wheat and white breads, most cold cereals, crackers and commercially prepared baked goods, trigger or worsen your thyroid symptoms, try opting for gluten-free whole grains, such as brown rice, wild rice and popcorn, instead.
Excess sugar can be harmful to the thyroid gland. High sugar foods should be avoided with an underactive thyroid. Caffeine, which is found in coffee and chocolate, is also something to try not to consume a lot of when you have hypothyroidism. Even though caffeine keeps you more alert, it can slow down the thyroid function.
The thyroid is a gland that produces hormones important for energy levels, mood and metabolism. If your thyroid produces too few hormones, you have a condition known as hypothyroidism. Depending on the severity of your condition, your doctor may prescribe synthetic thyroid medications.
Cruciferous vegetables, such as cabbage, broccoli and cauliflower, and leafy vegetables, such as mustard greens and kale, however, can interfere with thyroid function. Limit these vegetables, and emphasize thyroid-safe alternatives, such as bell peppers, squash, tomatoes and carrots.