Prevacid is a drug used to treat several different conditions, such as gastroesophageal reflux disease, erosive esophagitis, and duodenal ulcers. Prevacid is part of a class of drugs called proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), which decrease the amount of acid in the stomach by blocking the acid production sites. Prevacid Medication.
A: Prevacid (lansoprazole) is used to treat and prevent stomach and intestinal ulcers, erosive esophagitis (damage to the esophagus from stomach acid), and other conditions involving excessive stomach acid. Prevacid belongs to a class of drugs called proton pump inhibitors (PPI) that decrease the amount of acid produced in the stomach. PPIs block the enzyme in the wall of the stomach that produces acid. When acid is reduced, the stomach and esophagus can heal.
Lansoprazole decreases the amount of acid produced in the stomach. Lansoprazole is used to treat and prevent stomach and intestinal ulcers, erosive esophagitis (damage to the esophagus from stomach acid), and other conditions involving excessive stomach acid such as Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Lansoprazole may also be used for purposes other than those listed in this medication guide.
A: Prevacid (lansoprazole) decreases the amount of acid produced in the stomach. Prevacid is used to treat and prevent stomach and intestinal ulcers, erosive esophagitis (damage to the esophagus from stomach acid), and other conditions involving excessive stomach acid such as Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Prevacid belongs to a class of drugs called proton pump inhibitors (PPI) that decrease the amount of acid produced in the stomach. PPIs block the enzyme in the wall of the stomach that produces acid. When acid is reduced, the stomach and esophagus can heal.
Prevacid ® (lansoprazole) is a medication that is used to treat a number of conditions within the esophagus, stomach, and intestines. Prevacid is part of a class of drugs called proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), which decrease the amount of acid in the stomach by blocking the acid production sites. Prevacid Medication.
PREVACID is a prescription medicine called a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). PREVACID reduces the amount of acid in your stomach. PREVACID is used in adults: 1  for 4 weeks for the healing and symptom relief of duodenal ulcers. 2  The duodenal area is the area where food passes when it leaves the stomach. 3  with certain antibiotics to treat an infection called H. pylori
A: Prevacid (lansoprazole) is a medication used to treat acid reflux, ulcers, and esophageal erosion. It is in a class of medications called proton pump inhibitors and decreases the amount of acid in the stomach by blocking the acid production sites (proton pumps) in the stomach. Prevacid belongs to a class of drugs called proton pump inhibitors (PPI) that decrease the amount of acid produced in the stomach. PPIs block the enzyme in the wall of the stomach that produces acid. When acid is reduced, the stomach and esophagus can heal.
Uses of This Medicine. Lansoprazole is used to treat certain conditions where there is too much acid in the stomach. It is used to treat duodenal and gastric ulcers, gastric ulcers caused by NSAID use, erosive esophagitis, and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). Sometimes lansoprazole is used in combination with antibiotics (eg, amoxicillin, clarithromycin) to treat ulcers associated with an infection caused by H pylori bacteria. Lansoprazole is also used to treat Zollinger Ellison syndrome (ZES), which is a condition where the stomach produces too much acid. Lansoprazole is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). It works by decreasing the amount of acid produced by the stomach