whoop noun [C]. › a ​loud, ​excited ​shout, ​especially ​showing ​your ​enjoyment of or ​agreement with something: When the whoops and ​cheers had ​finally ​died down he ​started to ​speak. (Definition of whoop from the Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press). › to ​shout loudly and in an ​excited way: [I] I was so ​happy it was hard not to whoop out ​loud. whoop noun [C] us /hwup, wup, hwʊp, wʊp/ › Jake ​let out a whoop of ​triumph.
Of course this novice's report lacked whoop and crash and lurid description, and therefore wanted the true ring; but its antique wording was quaint and sweet and simple, and full of the fragrances and flavors of the time, and these little merits made up in a meas-ure for its more important lacks. 2. a loud, hollow call or hoot, as of an owl or baboon. 3. a deep intake of air with a hollow gasping sound, as brought on by choking or rapidly repetitive coughing. 4. to utter a loud cry or shout in expressing enthusiasm, excitement, etc. 5. to utter the cry of an owl or crane. 6. to utter with or as if with a whoop.
Full Definition of WHOOP. intransitive verb. 1. : to utter a whoop in expression of eagerness, enthusiasm, or enjoyment: shout. 2. : to utter the cry of an owl: hoot. 3. : to make the characteristic whoop of whooping cough. 4. Full Definition of WHOOP. 1. a: a loud yell expressive of eagerness, exuberance, or jubilation —often used interjectionally b: a shout of hunters or of men in battle or pursuit. 2. : the cry of an owl: hoot. 3.
Link to this slang definition. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation. 
It's like when I was in the Marines; we had ooh rah.. We would say ooh rah when something turned out good or we had a good mission. Whoop whoop is the same way. It's an easy thing to say, it's fun to say, and it can mean everything or nothing. And it sounds just the same, whether you're drunk or sober. And even sometimes when you're sad, you can say, like, Whoop whoop, man.. Most people use it as a form of farewell. And then, this sister, you gotta say whoop whoop to her too. And you're whooped out by the end of the day. Will Sigler is a 36-year-old Juggalo, former Marine, and longtime ICP fan who works at Psychopathic Records.
20 Words related to whoop whoop. 1  juggalo. 2  icp. 3  juggalette. 4  family. 5  whoop. 6  juggalos. 7  mmfwcl. 8  woop. 9  woop woop. 10  hatchetman. 11  twiztid. 12  dark carnival. 13  faygo. 14  insane clown posse. 15  juggalettes. 16  mcl. 17  ninja. 18  psychopathic. 19  psychopathic records. 20  yay. 
An expression designed to express approval, happiness, joy, and/or excitement usually accompanied by a knocking together of the fists with a buddy. Max: We got the top number in the housing lottery!. Owen, Chris, and Aldo: Woop woop!. 
whoop. 1. a loud cry or shout, as of excitement or joy. 2. a loud, hollow call or hoot, as of an owl or baboon. 3. a deep intake of air with a hollow gasping sound, as brought on by choking or rapidly repetitive coughing. 4. to utter a loud cry or shout in expressing enthusiasm, excitement, etc. 5. to utter the cry of an owl or crane. 6. to utter with or as if with a whoop.
whoop. n. 1. a. A loud cry of exultation or excitement. 2. a loud, hollow call or hoot, as of an owl or baboon. 3. a deep intake of air with a hollow gasping sound, as brought on by choking or rapidly repetitive coughing. 4. to utter a loud cry or shout in expressing enthusiasm, excitement, etc. 5. to utter the cry of an owl or crane. 6. to utter with or as if with a whoop.