“You are together because a forest is always stronger than a solitary tree,” the master answered. The forest conserves humidity, resists the hurricane and helps the soil to be fertile. But what makes a tree strong is its roots. And the roots of a plant cannot help another plant to grow. “God will be with you on your sleepless nights, and will dry your tears with His love. God is for the valiant.”. Certain things in life simply have to be experienced-and never explained. Love is such a thing.. There is a moment in every day when it is difficult to see clearly: evening time. Light and darkness blend, and nothing is completely clear nor completely dark.. But it's not important what we think, or what we do or what we believe in: each of us will die one day
“A man who seeks only the light, while shirking his responsibilities, will never find illumination. And one who keep his eyes fixed upon the sun ends up blind.... It doesn't matter what others think-because that's what they will think, in any case. “God will be with you on your sleepless nights, and will dry your tears with His love. God is for the valiant.”. Certain things in life simply have to be experienced-and never explained. Love is such a thing.. There is a moment in every day when it is difficult to see clearly: evening time. Light and darkness blend, and nothing is completely clear nor completely dark.. But it's not important what we think, or what we do or what we believe in: each of us will die one day
Everything depended on one word: Maktub.. -- The Alchemist, pg. 60. Maktub is a word that comes up again and again in The Alchemist. As is mentioned in the first quote, it is Arabic for it is written.. Maktub means fate or destiny. The concept comes from the Islamic notion that Allah writes one's destiny and whatever we experience occurs because it is meant to be. The idea of destiny that is inevitable is emphasized throughout this book. Maktub also exists in Farsi along with some other languages that borrow heavily from Farsi and Arabic.
According to their website, Maktub is an Arabic word that Reggie got from Paulo Coelho 's novel The Alchemist, which translates to, it is written, or, destiny. In August 1999, they released their first album, Subtle Ways. Maktub is a Seattle, Washington-based music group formed in the late 1990s that combines elements of hip-hop, rhythm and blues, soul, and funk, with a sprinkling of jazz and rock. Contents.
Maktub is an alchemist term (arabic word) which literally means it is written. From mystical point of view, it points to the fact that whatever happens is already known to the One. It signifies that Destiny exists. Now there is a big problem here. Many people become atheist (or lose faith in God) from misunderstanding the concept of Destiny and from the claim by the theist that God knows everything including our future.
Maktub was formed in 1996 when Davis Martin called Reggie Watts, a student at the Cornish College of the Arts at the time, to come jam with Kevin Goldman, Alex Veley, and himself. After only 5 minutes of jamming, the band hit it off, and by day's end wrote their first song. Maktub is a Seattle, Washington-based music group formed in the late 1990s that combines elements of hip-hop, rhythm and blues, soul, and funk, with a sprinkling of jazz and rock. Contents.
Maktub means, it is written.. Remember that in Coehlo's novel, one writes their own destiny. Others you meet along your path to are able to help you realize your Personal Legend.. Omens may assist you as well, but it is up to you to either act or reject each step along the path that will lead to your destiny. The concept comes from the Islamic notion that Allah writes one's destiny and whatever we experience occurs because it is meant to be. The idea of destiny that is inevitable is emphasized throughout this book. Maktub also exists in Farsi along with some other languages that borrow heavily from Farsi and Arabic.