In addition, Shona is a variant form of the English Jane in the Irish and Scottish languages. Shona is also a variant form of the English Joan in the Irish language. Shona is also a variant form of the English and Irish Sheena in the English language. Shona is uncommon as a baby girl name. At the height of its usage in 1970, 0.009% of baby girls were given the name Shona. It was #846 in rank then. The baby name has seen a decline in frequency since then, and is used only on a very modest scale today.
Shona is a somewhat popular first name for women (#2304 out of 4276, Top 54%) but a rare surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Below is a graphed comparison of the usage of Shona and associated names. Joni, John, Joanie and Joan are the prominent related forms of Shona (outside Top 1000) listed in the Top 1000. Variants like Jonee are seldom used
Comments and insights on the name Shona: | Edit. Its a name, also the name of an African Language. Shona is the anglicized spelling of the name Seonaid which is the Scottish Gaelic form of Janet. The spellings Seona, Sheona, Seonag are also found in Scotland. SHOANA with an A is Yiddish meaning beautiful.Hebrew meaning: in the Grace of God. spiritual meaning: Eye witness.
[ 2 syll. (s)ho-na, sh-ona ] The baby girl name Shona is pronounced-SH OW Naa- †. Shona is of Hebrew and Sanskrit origin. It is used mainly in the Irish, Scottish, English, Gaelic, Hebrew, and Indian languages. Shona is uncommon as a baby girl name. At the height of its usage in 1970, 0.009% of baby girls were given the name Shona. It was #846 in rank then. The baby name has seen a decline in frequency since then, and is used only on a very modest scale today.
Shona name, given to a male child, ... [more]. MIRIRO f & m African, Shona. Started in the early 1900's... [more]. MUFARO f Shona. Happiness. MUNESU f & m Shona. Derived from Munesu of Shona origin, a name meaning God is with us or God is within us. 
This is also the name of an ethnic group who live in southern Africa, mainly Zimbabwe. Feminine form of John. It is a Gaelic form of the female Jean or Jane and an alternate form of the Yiddish name Sheina (meaning 'beautiful'). Nicknames can be Sho, Shone, Shonnie, Shon and Shody of the this name. Shona Name also appears in following Origin(s): Yiddish, Gaelic, Scottish. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The name Shona has several different meanings. The name, popular in Scotland, is a version of Janet or Jean. It also means Peace in Gaelic (Nollaig Shona Duit, an Irish Christmas greeting). It
Meaning: The Irish name Shona means-A form of Jane, meaning God's gracious gift.. Rating: Variants: Shanda, Shaunda, Shawnda.
The name Shona is very likely a(n) Scottish variant of the name Joanna. See other suggested Scottish girl baby names. You might also like to see the other variants of the name Joanna. See worldwide popularity rankings of Shona as a baby name (outside USA). As a baby girl name, Shona is currently not a popular baby name in the USA. There are no available USA popularity statistics for the name Shona for the past 100 years.
Shona is also the name of a people and a language of Zimbabwe. 