Aluminum is the most abundant metal in the Earth's crust, and the third most abundant element overall, after oxygen and silicon. But it is not found free in nature. The Bayer process is used to refine aluminum from bauxite (aluminum oxide), an aluminum ore. 
Confidence votes 77.6K. Aluminum comes mostly from an aluminum ore called bauxite. It is mined out of the ground in large geological formations found in Ghana, Indonesia, Jamaica, Russia and Surinam, but it is also abundantly deposited in Australia and Brazil. It has the symbol Al; its atomic number is 13. It is not soluble in water under normal … circumstances. Aluminium is too reactive chemically to occur in nature as the free metal. Instead, it is found combined in over 270 different minerals. The chief source of aluminum is bauxite ore. Aluminium is a soft, durable, lightweight, malleable metal with appearance ranging from silvery to dull grey, depending on the surface roughness
Aluminium (or aluminum; see different endings) is a chemical element in the boron group with symbol Al and atomic number 13. It is a silvery-white, soft, nonmagnetic, ductile metal. Aluminium is the third most abundant element (after oxygen and silicon) in the Earth 's crust, and the most abundant metal there. 
Most pure metals, like aluminium, silver and copper, come from the Earth s crust. They are found in ores solid materials called minerals, usually occurring in rock, from which the pure metal has to be extracted. The properties of pure metals can be improved by mixing them with other metals to make alloys. 
History and Uses: Although aluminum is the most abundant metal in the earth's crust, it is never found free in nature. All of the earth's aluminum has combined with other elements to form compounds. Two of the most common compounds are alum, such as potassium aluminum sulfate (KAl(SO 4) 2 ·12H 2 O), and aluminum oxide (Al 2 O 3). About 8.2% of the earth's crust is composed of aluminum.
Site Search. Aluminium is derived from the ore bauxite. First bauxite is mined from typically shallow deposits, and then it is refined into alumina (alumina hydroxide – Al2O3) using the Bayer process at an alumina refinery.
Aluminum is all around us, in almost every rock, plant, and animal. It is the third most plentiful element in the earth’s surface, after oxygen and silicon, and its compounds make up about 15 percent of the weight of the earth’s crust. But nowhere in nature is aluminum found in a pure form, it’s always mixed with other elements. Some parts of the earth’s crust contain large amounts of aluminum compounds, and these regions are mined for their aluminum ore. The most common aluminum ore is called bauxite. Aluminum is used for foil because it is light, weighing less than half as much as iron or copper, and can be pressed into very thin sheets. Aluminum is a good conductor of electricity and a good insulator against heat and light, which makes it perfect as a food wrap.
| Filed Under: Language Leave a Comment. Aluminum is the most abundant metal in the Earth’s crust where it is principally found in combination with bauxite. In 1808 when the English scientist Sir Humphry Davy (1778-1829) was figuring out how to isolate aluminum, he first called it alumium. 
Like many metals, aluminium does not come out of the ground as a shiny metal, but as a special kind of rock, an ore. Aluminium ore is called bauxite. It is also quite a valuable metal as it is hard to get the aluminium from the ore. Aluminium can be recycled indefinitely (over and over again), as the recycling process does not affect the quality of the metal. It takes around 6 weeks from the time an aluminium can is put in a recycling bin to be back in a shop filled with new drink.