In this article. Creatinine is a waste product from the normal breakdown of muscle tissue. As creatinine is produced, it's filtered through the kidneys and excreted in urine. Doctors measure the blood creatinine level as a test of kidney function. The kidneys ' ability to handle creatinine is called the creatinine clearance rate, which helps to estimate the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) -- the rate of blood flow through the kidneys.
It is measured in blood and urine tests as an indicator of kidney function. Normal adult blood levels of creatinine are 0.5 to 1.1 mg/dL for females and 0.6 to 1.2 mg/dL for males; the numbers decrease in elderly patients because of a smaller muscle mass. See also creatine. 
The creatinine blood test is used to assess kidney function. It is frequently ordered along with a BUN (blood urea nitrogen) test or as part of a basic or comprehensive metabolic panel (BMP or CMP), groups of tests that are performed to evaluate the function of the body's major organs. Creatinine is a waste product produced by muscles from the breakdown of a compound called creatine. Almost all creatinine is filtered from the blood by the kidneys and released into the urine, so blood levels are usually a good indicator of how well the kidneys are working.
Creatinine is a chemical waste product in the blood that passes through the kidneys to be filtered and eliminated in urine. The chemical waste is a by-product of normal muscle contractions. Creatinine is made from creatine, a supplier of energy to the muscle. 
A creatinine blood test measures the level of creatinine in the blood. Creatinine is a waste product that forms when creatine breaks down. Creatine is a substance found in muscle. Creatinine levels help determine how well your kidneys function. Your kidneys are responsible for eliminating creatinine from the body when you urinate. When creatinine levels increase, your kidney function may be impaired.
Measuring serum creatinine is a useful and inexpensive method of evaluating renal dysfunction. Creatinine is a non-protein waste product of creatine phosphate metabolism by skeletal muscle tissue. Creatinine production is continuous and is proportional to muscle mass. 
Lots More Information. Creatinine is a chemical molecule in the blood. Its level in the blood is an indicator of how well the kidneys are working. © istockphoto /raycat. Creatinine is a chemical molecule that is present in the serum (liquid portion) of the blood. It's produced from another molecule, creatine, which is a component of muscle
Creatinine is a chemical waste molecule that is generated from muscle metabolism. Creatinine is produced from creatine, a molecule of major importance for energy production in muscles. Approximately 2% of the body's creatine is converted to creatinine every day. Creatinine is transported through the bloodstream to the kidneys. The kidneys maintain the blood creatinine in a normal range. Creatinine has been found to be a fairly reliable indicator of kidney function. Elevated creatinine level signifies impaired kidney function or kidney disease.
Creatinine is a waste product that is produced continuously during normal muscle breakdown. The kidneys filter creatinine from the blood into the urine, and reabsorb almost none of it. The amount of blood the kidneys can make creatinine-free each minute is called the creatinine clearance. Doctors measure the blood creatinine level as a test of kidney function. The kidneys ' ability to handle creatinine is called the creatinine clearance rate, which helps to estimate the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) -- the rate of blood flow through the kidneys.
Serum creatinine (a blood measurement) is an important indicator of renal health because it is an easily measured byproduct of muscle metabolism that is excreted unchanged by the kidneys. 