Avoid chicken feed at this age as it is deficient in some of the nutrients that growing ducks need. 3 - 20 weeks of age. Ducklings can now be fed a good quality grower food suitable for ducks or for pullets (young chickens). Protein level for this food should be around 15%. 20 weeks and older. The ducks can now be fed a good quality layer or breeder food suitable for adult ducks or chickens. Pellets or mixed grain are best. They also need daily access to shell grit as a source of calcium to ensure strong shelled eggs. Supplement the commercial diet with suitable vegetables and fruit.
Reply. Ducks and Chickens CAN eat the same feed as adults. Ducks need more water so you will have to fill up there water pans up frequently. Both can also have treats of ONLY fruits and veggies. NO peppers, garlic, oil/greasy foods, and onions though. As long as its not medicated chick starter than they should be fine. But I do recommend getting Flock feed. Its food for Chicken, Ducks, Geese and Turkeys. It is prob the best food for your chickens/ducks to have seeing as you are keeping them in the same pen. I hope this helped.
FEEDING DUCKLINGS! Ducks can eat anything off this list once they are fully fledged (at around 8 weeks old, depending on the duck). Some of these treats can be given to younger ducklings, as early as the first week of life, depending on the treat. -Feeding veggies or fruits with a high water levels, (like lettuce) will make your duck's poop waterier than normal. It may seem like diarrhea. -Feeding dairy products, bananas, rice, etc could make your duck's poop harder and dryer. Your duck can become constipated, so these treats should be limited.
Layer feed should not be fed to chickens younger than 18 weeks unless they have begun egg-laying because it contains calcium that can permanently damage the kidneys, cause kidney stones, reduce lifetime egg production and shorten a bird's lifespan. 
Ducks and Chickens CAN eat the same feed as adults. Ducks need more water so you will have to fill up there water pans up frequently. Both can also have treats of ONLY fruits and veggies. As long as its not medicated chick starter than they should be fine. But I do recommend getting Flock feed. Its food for Chicken, Ducks, Geese and Turkeys. It is prob the best food for your chickens/ducks to have seeing as you are keeping them in the same pen. I hope this helped.
T here are many mixed opinions about keeping chickens and ducks together in the same enclosure. From a purists point of view, they should be kept in separate enclosures but I have kept my chickens and ducks together for many years with very few problems. A small tub that can be emptied easily is often used for a small number of ducks so that they can climb in and wash themselves or dabble in the water when they want to. If this water is too deep, chickens can fall in whilst having a drink and get waterlogged, and drown.
I have never heard of just duck feed. Our ducks just eat with the chickens-they get a flock raiser type feed with scratch mixed in. They also eat a ton of grass, bugs, and they love mice. I have traps in the barns and will give the mice to the ducks...they love them! My husbands grandma used to just feed her ducks hound dog food...from the feed store. I have had ducks for 5 years now with chickens. They all sleep in the same pen, play in the same run and eat the same food. I have some of the healthiest ducks around. I don't know where you get your info but it's false.
If I could buy duck feed locally I would feed it, but I haven't been able to find it. My adult ducks eat with the chickens and the young ones are eating the Dumour from TSC. They also free range and get whatever they can find and I supplement with greens, brewers yeast and niacin in their water about once a week. All seem healthy and we have hatched 8 fat and sassy little call ducks. I have had ducks for 5 years now with chickens. They all sleep in the same pen, play in the same run and eat the same food. I have some of the healthiest ducks around. I don't know where you get your info but it's false.
I would get some duck feed along with the chicken scatch from the feed store. I had chickens and then put a duck in with them in a large area. The duck was a male and killed my chickens trying to mate with them, so be careful, ducks can be ‘not so nice’ at mating time! October 12, 2011 at 10:51 am. Reply. Get them chicken feed. As long as its not medicated chick starter than they should be fine. But I do recommend getting Flock feed. Its food for Chicken, Ducks, Geese and Turkeys. It is prob the best food for your chickens/ducks to have seeing as you are keeping them in the same pen. I hope this helped.
1 Do not feed ducklings onions, wild bird or caged bird seed, or any type of bread. 2  You can feed them starter duck feed, peas, corn, green beans, lima beans, cooked carrots, hard boiled eggs, tomatoes, crickets, worms, small feeder fish, grass, milk, and turkey feed. Tips. 1  Don't try to feed ducklings berries or grapes. 2  Do not feed ducklings onions, wild bird or caged bird seed, or any type of bread. 3