Date Entered Confederation: In 1867, the province of Ontario was created. The word Ontario is believed to come from the Iroquoian for “vast body of water.” The province bears the same name as Lake Ontario, first referred to by this name in the Jesuit Relations documents around 1641. Ontario adopted the common loon (Gavia immer) as its official bird on June 23, 1994. The loon is a common sight on many lakes and rivers in the province. In 1987, Canada replaced its $1 bill with a coin, which featured a swimming loon on the tail side.
In 1867 Canada's confederation song The Maple Leaf Forever was written by Alexander Muir. The coat of arms created for Ontario and Quebec both included the maple leaf. The maple leaf appears on the penny, on the arms of Canada and on Canada's flag (1965). The red maple leaf is recognized around the world as a symbol of Canada. 
Ontario is one of Canada 's provinces, and has established several provincial symbols. 
ONTARIO The name Ontario was first used for Lake Ontario. It meant beautiful lake or sparkling water in the Iroquois language. Early settlers named the land along the lake shore Ontario. Ontario became a province in 1867. Ontario's flag looks much like Canada's former flag, the Canadian Red Ensign. It became the official provincial flag in 1965. The Union Flag (Union Jack) is in the upper left hand corner. The Shield of Arms is on the right side of the flag. 
Emblems of Canada. Emblems of Canada include the national coat of arms and flag. When John Cabot arrived on the shores of North America in 1497, he raised a cross and the royal banner of England. Since then, Canada’s emblems have evolved out of those traditionally used by France and Britain. 
Learn about the symbols and emblems that represent Canada and her provinces and territories, including the Canadian flag, coat of arms, motto, colours and music. About News Funny & Weird News Canada News. 
Franco-Ontarian Flag The Franco-Ontarian Flag was adopted in 2001 and was given Royal Assent on June 29 of that same year, becoming an official emblem of the French-speaking community of Ontario. The colours green and white represent the varied climate of Ontario-from the heat of Summer to the cold and snow of Winter. The lily (Fleur de Lis) represents the world-wide French-speaking communities while the stylized trillium is an official symbol of Ontario (see above). T he Franco-Ontarian Flag was adopted in 2001 and was given Royal Assent on June 29 of that same year, becoming an official emblem of the French-speaking community of Ontario. The colours green and white represent the varied climate of Ontario-from the heat of Summer to the cold and snow of Winter.
The flag of Ontario was enacted by the Flag Act on May 21, 1965 in the Legislature of the Province of Ontario. The flag is a defaced Red Ensign, with the United Kingdom 's Union Flag in the canton and the Ontario shield of arms in the fly. Before 1965, the Canadian Red Ensign had served as the national flag of Canada. In Ontario, it was logical to place the Ontario shield of arms on the flag. While Robarts insisted that he supported the new national flag, he felt the Ensign was an important symbol that reflected Ontario's British heritage and the sacrifices made by Canadian troops under the Red Ensign.