Another demonstration of the importance of family in Greek culture can be seen in Sophocles’ play, Antigone. In this play we see that Antigone is upset because King Creon decreed that Polynices is not to be buried because he is considered a traitor to Thebes. Even today family remains as vital an aspect in Greek culture as it was in ancient times. In Euripides’ play Medea, the Greek value of family is exemplified in the scene where Helios saves Medea. In the play, Medea’s actions would normally cause a god to smite her.
Antigone was an ancient figure even to the ancient Greeks. Most specifically the play is set in front of the palace of Thebes. This place has been the sight of much tragedy for Antigone's family. It's where her mother/grandmother, Jocasta, committed suicide, and where her brother/father Oedipus discovered his shame and gouged out his own eyes. Antigone, like Oedipus the King, is set in that disaster-prone city-state known as Thebes. Though most Greek playwrights were from Athens, their plays are hardly ever set there. This is not because they had no hometown pride. In fact, they weren't allowed to set their plays in Athens.
do as you like, dishonor the laws the gods hold in honor (Antigone 85-92). When looking at Ancient Greek literature, one can see the importance family plays in Greek culture. We see this displayed in the Greek works Medea by Euripides and Antigone by Sophocles. Throughout these literary works we see that family is a strong and important cultural value which remains undiminished in value throughout Greek history. Even today family remains as vital an aspect in Greek culture as it was in ancient times. In Euripides’ play Medea, the Greek value of family is exemplified in the scene where Helios saves Medea. In the play, Medea’s actions would normally cause a god to smite her.
In ancient Greece, Antigone is mostly related to the myth that was told by the Ancient Greek playwright Sophocles, although there is reference to a different Antigone in the ancient Greek World. When Oedipus left the kingdom of Thebes, the kingdom was entrusted to Creon, as Oedipus sons were too young to ascend to rule. Antigone was the daughter of King Oedipus of Thebes and Jocasta. The story says, Oedipus, the son of Laius and Jocasta killed his father Laius and became the king of Thebes. Oedipus unknowingly married his own mother Jocasta and had children by her. Thus, Antigone was the daughter and the sister of Oedipus
Antigone. Antigone was the daughter of King Oedipus of Thebes and Jocasta. The story says, Oedipus, the son of Laius and Jocasta killed his father Laius and became the king of Thebes. Oedipus unknowingly married his own mother Jocasta and had children by her. Thus, Antigone was the daughter and the sister of Oedipus
Buy Study Guide. There is no question that pride, in the context of Antigone (and most of Sophocles ' works), is a trait despised by the gods and punished without mercy. In Antigone, Sophocles describes the type of pride that allows men to create laws that substitute for divine principles. In the 20th century, a version of Antigone rewritten during the Second World War became one of the most powerful texts of resistance against the Nazis. The conflict between the individual and the power of the state was as pressing for Greek audiences as it is to modern ones.
ANCIENT GREECE-SOPHOCLES-ANTIGONE (Tragedy, Greek, c. 442 BCE, 1,352 lines) Introduction | Synopsis | Analysis | Resources Introduction Back to Top of Page Antigone is a tragedy by the ancient Greek playwright Sophocles, written around 442 BCE. 
Eurydice of Thebes is the Queen of Thebes and Creon’s wife. She appears towards the end and only to hear confirmation of her son Haemon’s death. In her grief, she commits suicide, cursing Creon whom she blames for her son’s death. Haemon is the son of Creon and Eurydice, betrothed to Antigone. In Antigone, the hubris of Creon is revealed. Creon's decree to leave Polyneices unburied in itself makes a bold statement about what it means to be a citizen, and what constitutes abdication of citizenship. It was the firmly kept custom of the Greeks that each city was responsible for the burial of its citizens.
The last issue Sophocles comments on in Antigone is the role of power and authority in a culture. Creon is the king and can do essentially whatever he chooses; in this play he chooses not to allow Polyneices a proper burial. It is true that Antigone is as intractable as Creon; however, her stubbornness is based on family pride rather than personal pride. Women were not traditionally part of the Greek culture, so having a woman speak and act as Antigone does is may be Sophocles' way of suggesting that women's voices add value to