Share. On Monday, Oprah Winfrey announced a new collaboration with Weight Watchers in which she will buy up 10 percent of the company, join its board, and (she promises) shed some pounds. Investors cheered; the company’s stock doubled and has continued to head higher today. And you get a diet! On Monday, Oprah Winfrey announced a new collaboration with Weight Watchers in which she will buy up 10 percent of the company, join its board, and (she promises) shed some pounds. Investors cheered; the company’s stock doubled and has continued to head higher today.
Ms. Winfrey also plans to give Weight Watchers unfettered access to her name and face for marketing purposes. “Weight Watchers has given me the tools to begin to make the lasting shift that I and so many of us who are struggling with weight have longed for,” Ms. Winfrey said in a statement. This year, Weight Watchers announced plans to cut roughly $100 million in additional costs and laid off the president of its North American business. After 10 straight quarters of declining sales, the stock had slumped 73 percent, to $6.79 on Friday.
Ms. Winfrey is expected to bring some major gravitas to Weight Watchers’ marketing department. She agreed to offer her name and face to Weight Watchers and no other weight-loss products for five years with the option to renew afterward, according to a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. This year, Weight Watchers announced plans to cut roughly $100 million in additional costs and laid off the president of its North American business. After 10 straight quarters of declining sales, the stock had slumped 73 percent, to $6.79 on Friday.
Continue reading the main story. Her show might be gone but the “ Oprah Effect” clearly endures. After Oprah Winfrey said on Monday she would buy a 10 percent stake in Weight Watchers and take a seat on the board, the company’s slumping stock doubled to $13.92 per share, adding about $400 million to its market value. This year, Weight Watchers announced plans to cut roughly $100 million in additional costs and laid off the president of its North American business. After 10 straight quarters of declining sales, the stock had slumped 73 percent, to $6.79 on Friday.