Ha-ha protecting the lawn at Heaton Hall, Manchester. Note how the wall disappears as it curves away to the right of the picture. A ha-ha is a recessed landscape design element that creates a vertical barrier whilst preserving an uninterrupted view of the landscape beyond. The design includes a turfed incline which slopes downward to a sharply vertical face, typically a masonry retaining wall. Ha-has are used in landscape design to prevent access to a garden, for example by grazing livestock, without obstructing views. In security design, the element is used to deter vehicular access to a site while minimizing visual obstruction
1 ha. interjection \ˈhae\. ˈhä. —tweet used especially to express surprise or a feeling of pleasure that you have when you do something or find out about. something Full Definition of HA. —used especially to express surprise, joy, or triumph. See ha defined for English-language learners.
The doctors said they are afraid of HA-MRSA. Why is it so scary? My father was hospitalized for pneumonia last week. The doctors wanted to discharge him as quick as possible because they said that they are afraid of Hospital Acquired Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (HA-MRSA).
Hectare. The hectare (/ˈhɛktɛər/ or /ˈhɛktɑr/ ; symbol ha) is an SI accepted metric system unit of area equal to 100 ares (10,000 m 2) and primarily used in the measurement of land. An acre is about 0.4047 hectare and one hectare contains about 2.47 acres. In 1795, when the metric system was introduced, the are was defined as 100 square metres and the hectare ( hecto-  + are) was thus 100 ares or 1⁄100 km 2.
by j-rob mad fresh April 12, 2010. 3. ha. When you say or type ha the general understanding is that you had a little laugh, because the joke wasn't any good or interesting, but the actual thing that is in your mind when saying or typing it is how annoying... (ha is used as acronym). 
—used especially to express surprise or a feeling of pleasure that you have when you do something or find out about something. —used especially to express surprise, joy, or triumph. Full Definition of HA. —used especially to express surprise, joy, or triumph. See ha defined for English-language learners.
VMware HA (High Availability) is a utility that eliminates the need for dedicated standby hardware and software in a virtualized environment. The utility is part of a virtualization suite called VMware Infrastructure 3. In IT (information technology), the term high availability refers to a system or component that is continuously operational for long periods. VMware vLockstep. VMware vLockstep is the technology supporting VMware's Fault Tolerance (FT) high-availability software feature. See complete definition. VMware vSphere App HA. VMware vSphere App HA is virtual appliance introduced with vSphere 5.5. It works with vSphere HA (high availability) host ...
ha-ha 1. n. A sound made in imitation of laughter. interj. Used to express amusement or scorn. 
See complete definition. VMware vLockstep. VMware vLockstep is the technology supporting VMware's Fault Tolerance (FT) high-availability software feature. See complete definition. VMware vSphere App HA. VMware vSphere App HA is virtual appliance introduced with vSphere 5.5. It works with vSphere HA (high availability) host ...
hour angle, HA (noun). (astronomy) the angular distance of a celestial point measured westward along the celestial equator from the zenith crossing; the right ascension for an observer at a particular location and time of day. see more on Definitions.net ». 