We have many strong brands in our portfolio. Our main focus is to continue to build Electrolux, our biggest and most important brand, known and trusted by both consumers and professional users around the world. We also have a range of other strong brands for consumers and the professional market as well as offering brand licensing opportunities. In focus. Electrolux is our flagship brand for kitchen and cleaning appliances for both consumers and professional users. Since 1919, innovative solutions from Electrolux have made life easier and more enjoyable for hundreds of millions of...
Electrolux is a leader in kitchen appliances including food preparation, storage and dishwashing. The Group is the only appliance manufacturer in the world to offer complete solutions for both consumers and professionals. Roughly 50% of sales are in the Americas, 30% in Europe (a shift from 50% five years ago) and 20% in other markets. Growth markets now represent 35% of the business and the goal is to increase this share significantly moving forward.
The Good Features abound in the durably-built and efficiently-designed Electrolux Precision Brushroll Clean. The brush-roll clean technology is a particular favorite -- it pulls jammed items from the brush and into the bin with the press of a lever. Design and usability. The Electrolux Precision Brushroll Clean is a durable vacuum with a silver finish and orange accents. All of its components feel substantial on their own and fit together nicely with the rest of the machine. I really like the look of this vacuum. In fact, it's my favorite design of all five models tested
Thoughtful and intuitive design from Electrolux gives their appliances an uncannily personal touch that will make you wonder if it was custom made for you. 
Electrolux Named ENERGY STAR® 2011 Product Manufacturer of the Year. ENERGY STAR® has recognized Electrolux for its great strides in energy-efficient appliances and for helping consumers become more environmentally conscious. Electrolux has stepped up to the plate by offering more green-friendly appliances in their kitchen and laundry collections, an initiative that has saved US consumers millions of gallons of water and millions of dollars in energy costs. 1  Product Videos.
The History of Electrolux. Beginning in 1924, Electrolux has been manufacturing quality vacuum cleaners. From the earliest model, the Model V, to the latest Oxygen series, each of these machines is extremely durable and very powerful. Until recently, locating replacement parts for these models was a difficult task. 
AB Electrolux (commonly known as Electrolux) is a multinational appliance manufacturer, headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden. It is consistently ranked the world's second-largest appliance maker by units sold (after Whirlpool). Electrolux products sell under a variety of brand names (including its own), and are primarily major appliances and vacuum cleaners intended for consumer use. The company also makes appliances for professional use
Electrolux has a primary listing on the Stockholm Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the OMX Stockholm 30 index. It is consistently ranked the world's second-largest appliance maker by units sold (after Whirlpool). Electrolux products sell under a variety of brand names (including its own), and are primarily major appliances and vacuum cleaners intended for consumer use.
Under esteemed brands including Electrolux, AEG,Zanussi, Frigidaire and Electrolux Grand Cuisine, the Group sells more than 50 million products to customers in more than 150 countries every year. In 2014, Electrolux had sales of SEK 112 billion and about 60,000 employees. Electrolux has been doing business since 1919. The headquarters are located in Stockholm, Sweden, and the Electrolux share ELUXb is listed on Nasdaq OMX Stockholm. Roughly 50% of sales are in the Americas, 30% in Europe (a shift from 50% five years ago) and 20% in other markets. Growth markets now represent 35% of the business and the goal is to increase this share significantly moving forward.