The kidneys are an essential part of the urinary system and also serve homeostatic reasons such as the regulation of blood pressure and acid-base balance. They take out waste such as urea and ammonium; also responsible for reabsorpitation of water, glucose, and ammonium acid. 1 Filtering out wastes to be excreted in the urine. 2  Regulating blood pressure via both urinary excretion of wastes and initiating the renin-angiotensen hormone regulatory system. 3  Regulating an acid-base balance via the bicarbonate system. 4  Stimulating red blood cell production via the release of the hormone erythropoietin.
In Depth: Kidney. The kidneys are two bean-shaped organs that extract waste from blood, balance body fluids, form urine, and aid in other important functions of the body. They reside against the back muscles in the upper abdominal cavity. They sit opposite each other on either side of the spine. 1 Urea is synthesized in the liver and transported through the blood to the kidneys for removal. 2  Water level balancing: As the kidneys are key in the chemical breakdown of urine, they react to changes in the body’s water level throughout the day.
In the nephron (left), tiny blood vessels intertwine with urine-collecting tubes. Each kidney contains about 1 million nephrons. In addition to removing wastes, your kidneys release three important hormones: 1  Erythropoietin (eh-RITH-ro-POYeh-tin), or EPO, which stimulates the bones to make red blood cells. 2  Renin (REE-nin), which regulates blood pressure.
Along with the liver, the kidneys keep the bloodstream clean and the blood at the proper thickness and pressure. The kidneys' main function is as a homeostatic regulator. Your body has equilibrium levels for salt content, water content, core temperature, blood pressure and blood volume. 1 Filtering out wastes to be excreted in the urine. 2  Regulating blood pressure via both urinary excretion of wastes and initiating the renin-angiotensen hormone regulatory system. 3  Regulating an acid-base balance via the bicarbonate system. 4  Stimulating red blood cell production via the release of the hormone erythropoietin.
In producing urine, the kidneys excrete wastes such as urea and ammonium, and they are also responsible for the reabsorption of water, glucose, and amino acids. The kidneys also produce hormones including calcitriol, erythropoietin, and the enzyme renin. 1 Filtering out wastes to be excreted in the urine. 2  Regulating blood pressure via both urinary excretion of wastes and initiating the renin-angiotensen hormone regulatory system. 3  Regulating an acid-base balance via the bicarbonate system. 4  Stimulating red blood cell production via the release of the hormone erythropoietin.
What kidneys do. The kidneys do several important jobs which help to keep your body working well. 1  They get rid of waste products carried in the blood. 2  The kidneys are part of the waste disposal team. 3  They check out the minerals, vitamins and other nutrients that you get from your food and send off into urine anything that is not needed. 
Your kidneys are bean-shaped organs, each about the size of your fist. They are located near the middle of your back, just below the rib cage. The kidneys are sophisticated trash collectors. Every day, your kidneys process about 200 quarts of blood to sift out about 2 quarts of waste products and extra water. Each kidney contains about 1 million nephrons. In addition to removing wastes, your kidneys release three important hormones: 1  Erythropoietin (eh-RITH-ro-POYeh-tin), or EPO, which stimulates the bones to make red blood cells. 2  Renin (REE-nin), which regulates blood pressure.
The kidneys also produce hormones that affect the function of other organs. For example, a hormone produced by the kidneys stimulates red blood cell production. Other hormones produced by the kidneys help regulate blood pressure and control calcium metabolism. The kidneys are powerful chemical factories that perform the following functions: 1  remove waste products from the body. 2  remove drugs from the body. If the kidneys' ability to filter the blood is seriously damaged by disease, wastes and excess fluid may build up in the body. Although many forms of kidney disease do not produce symptoms until late in the course of the disease, there are six warning signs of kidney disease: 1  High blood pressure.
The kidneys are bean-shaped organs that serve several essential regulatory roles in vertebrates. They remove excess organic molecules from the blood, and it is by this action that their best-known function is performed: the removal of waste products of metabolism. Located at the rear of the abdominal cavity in the retroperitoneal space, the kidneys receive blood from the paired renal arteries, and drain into the paired renal veins. Each kidney excretes urine into a ureter which empties into the bladder.
The kidneys remove wastes and extra water from the blood to form urine. Urine flows from the kidneys to the bladder through the ureters. The wastes in your blood come from the normal breakdown of active muscle and from the food you eat. Your body uses the food for energy and self-repair. After your body has taken what it needs from the food, waste is sent to the blood. Each kidney contains about 1 million nephrons. In addition to removing wastes, your kidneys release three important hormones: 1  Erythropoietin (eh-RITH-ro-POYeh-tin), or EPO, which stimulates the bones to make red blood cells. 2  Renin (REE-nin), which regulates blood pressure.