I love this name. Well, child actress and former ambassador to (former) Czechoslovakia and an African Country (I forgot the name) is Shirley Temple. -- Lakota_so_italian 1/14/2006. Anne Shirley = Anne of Green Gables is a fictional famous bearer, who named one of her daughters Shirley. Laverne and Shirley was the name of a sitcom in the '70's. It was a spin-off of Happy Days.. -- breakofday 12/16/2005. Dame Shirley Bassey is a Welsh-born singer, perhaps best-known for performing the theme songs to the James Bond films Goldfinger (1964), Diamonds Are Forever (1971), and Moonraker (1979).
Shirley /shir-ley/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced SURE-lee. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Shirley is  bright meadow . Place name. Made famous by child actress and American ambassador Shirley Temple-Black. Actress Shirley MacLaine; politician Shirley Chisholm; novelist Shirley Hazzard. 
Meaning of Shirley. English name. In English, the name Shirley means-bright meadow.The name Shirley originated as an English name. The name Shirley is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-bright meadow. Origin-England. 
View the Sherly Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Sherly has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Sherly to other names. Sherly is a variant spelling of Shirley. Sherly falls into the flower name category. 
View the Shirley Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Shirley has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Shirley to other names. Variants of the name Shirley include Sherily, Sherl, Sherle, Sherlee, Sherleen, Sherlene, Sherley, Sherli, Sherlie, Sherline, Sherly, Shirlee. 
Here is the characteristics of Shirley in details. advertisements. Meaning of the name Shirley, analysis of the name Shirley and so much more… What does Shirley mean and its numerology, definition, origin, popularity and very interesting information. Please use the menu below. Quick Menu. 1  Information About The Name Shirley. 2  Prononciation Of Shirley. 
See other adorable names for boys and girls. Popularity. See worldwide popularity rankings of Shirley as a baby name (outside USA). As a baby girl name, Shirley is currently a popular baby name, with a recent overall USA popularity ranking of 871 out of 1000 (source: 2000s U.S. Census) .
This unusual surname is of Anglo-Saxon origin, and is a locational name from any of the various places called Shirley in Derbyshire, Hampshire, Surrey and the West Midlands. The placename derives from the Olde English pre 7th Century scir, meaning bright, plus leah, wood, clearing. 
Meaning of the name-Shirley. Tweet. English Name: Shirley. Hebrew Name: שִׁירְלִי. Meaning: The meaning will be updated soon. For information in Hebrew, click here. The meaning will be updated soon. 
Meaning of name Shirley. Etymology: From a surname which was originally derived from a place name meaning bright clearing in Old English. Saint : Origin: English. 