Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) is the most common of a spectrum of diseases called plasma cell dyscrasias. The term MGUS denotes the presence of a monoclonal immunoglobulin (Ig), also called an M-protein, in the serum or urine in persons without evidence of multiple myeloma (MM), Waldenstroem waldenström (MACROGLOBULINEMIA), wm (AMYLOIDOSIS) al or other lymphoproliferative. disorders
Overview. Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) is a condition in which an abnormal protein called monoclonal protein is detected in the blood. MGUS typically does not cause any problems, although some affected people may experience numbness, tingling or weakness. 
Monoclonal gammopathies are conditions in which abnormal proteins are found in the blood. Click to Enlarge. These proteins develop from a small number of plasma cells in the bone marrow. Plasma cells make up just 1 percent of bone marrow cells. Their main function is to fight off infection. The most common condition linked with these abnormal proteins is monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS). It is not cancer. But people with MGUS have an increased risk of developing serious diseases of the bone marrow and blood. 
Monoclonal gammopathy of unknown significance (MGUS) is characterised by the presence of an abnormal protein in the blood that is produced by plasma cells. Plasma cells are cells in the bone marrow that normally produce antibodies to fight infection. The abnormal protein produced by the MGUS plasma cells is called either an M–protein or paraprotein. This abnormal protein is found in the blood and is monoclonal
Monoclonal gammopathies are conditions in which abnormal proteins are found in the blood. These proteins develop from a small number of plasma cells in the bone marrow. Plasma cells make up just 1 percent of bone marrow cells. Their main function is to fight off infection. The most common condition linked with these abnormal proteins is monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS). It is not cancer. But people with MGUS have an increased risk of developing serious diseases of the bone marrow and blood. 
Monoclonal gammopathy of unknown significance (MGUS or just monoclonal gammopathy) is a condition that results in abnormal plasma cells. A plasma cell is a type of white blood cell. While monoclonal gammopathy is not cancer, it can develop into cancer. Monoclonal gammopathy of unknown significance is a medical condition characterized by abnormal plasma cells, which may lead to cancer.
Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS, unknown or uncertain may be substituted for undetermined), formerly benign monoclonal gammopathy, is a condition in which a paraprotein is found in the blood during standard laboratory tests. It resembles multiple myeloma and similar diseases, but the levels of antibody are lower, the number of plasma cells (white blood cells that secrete antibodies) in the bone marrow is lower, it has no symptoms or problems, and no treatment is indicated.
Monoclonal Gammopathy of Undetermined Significance (MGUS) is a non-cancerous, or benign, condition characterized by the presence in the blood of an abnormal protein produced by plasma cells. MGUS is considered a benign condition, since there is only a small risk that it will develop into myeloma or a related blood cancer. An increase in paraprotein in the bone marrow is often the first sign of progression from MGUS to active myeloma.
There are several types of plasma cell neoplasms. These diseases are all associated with a monoclonal (or myeloma) protein (M protein). They include monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS), isolated plasmacytoma of the bone, extramedullary plasmacytoma, and multiple myeloma. 
When a particular plasma cell is copied many times, this causes an excess amount of one type of immunoglobulin called monoclonal protein (M protein). Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) is an asymptomatic condition in which there is a presence of an abnormal M protein in the blood. It is not a blood cancer, and most people with MGUS do not ever develop a blood cancer. 