Your poop may be green if you eat a lot of green vegetables, such as spinach and broccoli, because these foods contain large amounts of the green pigment chlorophyll. It may be alarming to see green poop in your toilet bowl, but it isn't necessarily a cause for concern. The color of your stools is often a reflection of what you eat. Black stools, for example, can result from eating blueberries or taking medications that contain bismuth subsalicylate, such as Pepto-Bismol.
Giardiasis is an infection that affects your small intestine, caused by microscopic parasites called giardia. Giardiasis is spread through contact with infected people and by eating contaminated food or drinking contaminated water. Accidentally ingesting these parasites can lead to an infection. Drinking water that contains giardia is the most common way that people become infected. Contaminated water can be found in swimming pools, spas, and bodies of water, such as lakes.
Giardia (/dʒiːˈɑrdiə/ or /ˈdʒɑrdiə/) is a genus of anaerobic flagellated protozoan parasites of the phylum Sarcomastigophora that colonise and reproduce in the small intestines of several vertebrates, causing giardiasis. Giardia lives inside the intestines of infected humans or other animals. Individuals become infected through ingesting or coming into contact with contaminated food, soil, or water. The Giardia parasite originates from contaminated items and surfaces that have been tainted by the feces of an infected carrier. The symptoms of Giardia, which may begin to appear 2 days after infection, include violent diarrhea, excess gas, stomach or abdominal cramps, upset stomach, and nausea
Giardiasis is an intestinal infection of man and animals caused by a protozoan parasite Giardia intestinalis (also known as Giardia lamblia). Giardia is a simple one-celled parasitic species; it is not a worm, bacteria or virus. The parasite occurs worldwide and is a common cause of Traveler's Diarrhea in people. A dog becomes infected with Giardia when it swallows the cyst stage of the parasite. In susceptible dogs, once the cyst passes into the dog's intestines; it goes through transformation to the trophozoite or feeding form and attaches to the intestinal wall to feed.
Giardia is a microscopic parasite that causes the diarrheal illness known as giardiasis. Giardia (also known as Giardia intestinalis, Giardia lamblia, or Giardia duodenalis) is found on surfaces or in soil, food, or water that has been contaminated with feces (poop) from infected humans or animals. 
The symptoms of Giardia infection can vary in intensity form person to person. Many people may have no symptoms at all. Giardia infection can result in the symptom of diarrhea that lasts ten days or more. Diarrhea may be explosive and very foul smelling. There may also be abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, fever, chills, bloating, gas, and weight loss. Complications of Giardia infection include severe dehydration due to the loss of fluids and electrolytes from diarrhea and vomiting.
Giardia are present in the stool of people and animals, as well as in contaminated food, water, and soil. They are capable of surviving outside of a host for long periods of time. Accidentally ingesting these parasites can lead to an infection. Drinking water that contains giardia is the most common way that people become infected. Contaminated water can be found in swimming pools, spas, and bodies of water, such as lakes.
Some people with giardia infection never develop signs or symptoms but still carry the parasite and can spread it to others through their stool. Symptoms. Some people with giardia infection never develop signs or symptoms but still carry the parasite and can spread it to others through their stool. For those who do get sick, signs and symptoms usually appear one to three weeks after exposure and may include:
Giardia: Introduction. Giardia is the name of a type of parasite, Giardia lamblia. Giardia lamblia is a microscopic organism that can cause food borne illness or food poisoning. An infection of Giardia is also called giardiasis. Giardia infection is the most common food borne illness caused by a parasite. Giardia infection is spread through contaminated water. Giardia can also be spread through foods that contain or are prepared with water contaminated with Giardia lamblia.