Answers. Best Answer: Nostoc is a genus of cyanobacteria (Blue green algae) found in a variety of environmental niches that forms colonies composed of filaments of moniliform cells in a gelatinous sheath. The scientific name is Nostoc (It is the generic name) and it has many species.
Best Answer: Nostoc is a genus of cyanobacteria (Blue green algae) found in a variety of environmental niches that forms colonies composed of filaments of moniliform cells in a gelatinous sheath. The scientific name is Nostoc (It is the generic name) and it has many species.
Nostoc is a genus of cyanobacteria found in a variety of environmental niches that forms colonies composed of filaments of moniliform cells in a gelatinous sheath. The name Nostoc was coined by Paracelsus. Nostoc is a member of the family Nostocaceae of the order Hormogonales. Species include: 1  N. azollae. 2  N. caeruleum. 3  N. carneum. 4  N. comminutum. 5  N. commune, Koxianmi (Chinese). 6  N. ellipsosporum. 7  N. flagelliforme. 8  N. linckia.
Nostoc is a genus of cyanobacteria found in a variety of environmental niches that forms colonies composed of filaments of moniliform cells in a gelatinous sheath. The name Nostoc was coined by Paracelsus. It derives from the ancient Greek word  nόsos  (νόσος, disease or sickness) . Containing protein and vitamin C, Nostoc species are cultivated and consumed as a foodstuff, primarily in Asia. The N. flagelliforme and N. commune varieties are consumed in China, Japan and Java, N. commune is also consumed in the Andes.
Nostoc is a member of the family Nostocaceae of the order Hormogonales. Species include: 1  N. azollae. 2  N. caeruleum. 3  N. carneum. 4  N. comminutum. 5  N. commune, Koxianmi (Chinese). 6  N. ellipsosporum. 7  N. flagelliforme. Containing protein and vitamin C, Nostoc species are cultivated and consumed as a foodstuff, primarily in Asia. The N. flagelliforme and N. commune varieties are consumed in China, Japan and Java, N. commune is also consumed in the Andes.
Nostoc commune is a species of cyanobacterium in the family Nostocaceae. Common names include star jelly, witch's butter, mare's eggs, fah-tsai and facai. It is the type species of the genus Nostoc and is cosmopolitan in distribution. Description [edit]. Nostoc commune is a colonial species of cyanobacterium. It initially forms a small, hollow gelatinous globule which grows and becomes leathery, flattened and convoluted, forming a gelatinous mass with other colonies growing nearby.
Nostoc. Nostoc is a genus of cyanobacteria found in a variety of environmental niches that forms colonies composed of filaments of moniliform cells in a gelatinous sheath. The name Nostoc was coined by Paracelsus. It derives from the ancient Greek word  nόsos  (νόσος, disease or sickness) . Nostoc is a member of the family Nostocaceae of the order Hormogonales. Species include: 1  N. azollae. 2  N. caeruleum. 3  N. carneum. 4  N. comminutum. 5  N. commune, Koxianmi (Chinese). 6  N. ellipsosporum. 7  N. flagelliforme. 8  N. linckia.