3. Hydatid disease in man is caused mainly by infection by the larval stage of the dog tapeworm Echinococcus granulosus. It follows accidental ingestion of tapeworm eggs excreted in the faeces of infected dogs. Worldwide, four species of tapeworm are clinically important to man: E. granulosus, Echinococcus multilocularis, Echinococcus vogeli and Echinococcus oligarthrus, but only E. granulosus has been found in the UK. Hydatid disease is one of the most geographically widespread zoonoses.
Echinococcosis, also called hydatid disease, hydatidosis, or echinococcal disease, is a parasitic disease of tapeworms of the Echinococcus type. The two main types of the disease are cystic echinococcosis and alveolar echinococcosis. Less common forms include polycystic echinococcosis and unicystic echinococcosis. The disease is spread when food or water that contains the eggs of the parasite is eaten or by close contact with an infected animal. The eggs are released in the stool of meat-eating animals that are infected by the parasite. Commonly infected animals include dogs, foxes and wolves.
Cystic echinocccosis (CE) , also known as hydatid disease, is caused by infection with the larval stage of Echinococcus granulosus, a ~2-7 millimeter long tapeworm found in dogs (definitive host) and sheep, cattle, goats, and pigs (intermediate hosts). Although cases of AE in animals in endemic areas are relatively common, human cases are rare. AE poses a much greater health threat to people than CE, causing parasitic tumors that can form in the liver, lungs, brain, and other organs. If left untreated, AE can be fatal.
Hydatid Cysts of the Liver. In humans hydatid disease is caused by the larvae of a tapeworm called Echinococcus granulosus. This parasitic infection occurs worldwide and is endemic in some countries such as Australia and the Middle East, especially in sheep farming areas. The eggs may stick to the animal’s hair or contaminate the vegetable garden. The eggs are highly resistant to the environment and can remain alive for months. Human infection does not occur from eating infected offal. Hydatid disease is not contagious and is not passed by person-to-person contact.
How are dogs, cattle, sheep and other domestic animals affected by Echinococcus infection? There are no specific signs of hydatid disease in farm animals, although this may beaccounted for by their truncated life expectancy. There is no evidence for clinical signs orsymptoms of E. granulosus in dogs. Eggs are passed in the faeces of infected dogs. It is not possible to specifically identifythese eggs by microscopic examination of faeces as they are visually identical to eggs ofother tapeworms that may infect dogs. The coproantigen test is available to detect thepresence of the hydatid worm in dogs.
Alveolar echinococcosis (AE) disease is caused by infection with the larval stage of Echinococcus multilocularis, a ~1-4 millimeter long tapeworm found in foxes, coyotes, and dogs (definitive hosts). Small rodents are intermediate hosts for E. multilocularis. Although cases of AE in animals in endemic areas are relatively common, human cases are rare. AE poses a much greater health threat to people than CE, causing parasitic tumors that can form in the liver, lungs, brain, and other organs. If left untreated, AE can be fatal.
Echinococcosis is a parasitic disease caused by infection with tiny tapeworms of the genus Echinocococcus. Echinococcosis is classified as either cystic echinococcosis or alveolar echinococcosis. Although cases of AE in animals in endemic areas are relatively common, human cases are rare. AE poses a much greater health threat to people than CE, causing parasitic tumors that can form in the liver, lungs, brain, and other organs. If left untreated, AE can be fatal.
Cystic echinococcosis (CE), also known as hydatid disease, is caused by infection with the larval stage of E granulosus, a ~2-7 millimeter long tapeworm found in dogs (definitive host) and sheep, cattle, goats, and pigs (intermediate hosts). The disease is most commonly found in people who raise sheep, due to the sheep's role as the parasite’s intermediate host and the lives of working dogs that are allowed to eat the offal of infected sheep. Alveolar echinococcosis (AE) is caused by infection with E multilocularis larvae.
Echinococcosis refers to the presence of adulttapeworms in the gut of the definitive host. The species Echinococcus granulosus (whichcauses cystic echinococcosis) is found in the British Isles. The disease may take manyyears to develop and to produce clinical symptoms. Eggs are passed in the faeces of infected dogs. It is not possible to specifically identifythese eggs by microscopic examination of faeces as they are visually identical to eggs ofother tapeworms that may infect dogs. The coproantigen test is available to detect thepresence of the hydatid worm in dogs.
Alveolar echinococcosis (AE) disease is caused by infection with the larval stage of E multilocularis, a ~1-4 millimeter long tapeworm found in foxes, coyotes, and dogs (definitive hosts). Small rodents are intermediate hosts for E. multilocularis. The disease is most commonly found in people who raise sheep, due to the sheep's role as the parasite’s intermediate host and the lives of working dogs that are allowed to eat the offal of infected sheep. Alveolar echinococcosis (AE) is caused by infection with E multilocularis larvae.