Seborrhea translates as too much oil.. Actually, this skin condition has little to do with having too much oil on the skin. Skin can look dry or red, and seborrheic dermatitis usually expresses itself as dandruff on the scalp. It can affect other skin areas. Dandruff or flaking skin may result in eyebrows, or eyelashes, and can be present on the face, under the breasts, the underarms, groin, navel and buttocks. Steroid creams may be helpful in treating seborrhea. Seborrhea dermatitis may present itself as dandruff on the scalp. Shampoos that are used to treat seborrhea contain anti-fungal ingredients. Some people with seborrhea use a mild shampoo that contains tea tree oil.
Seborrhea or seborrheic dermatitis is a skin disorder in which the sebaceous glands of the skin produce an excessive amount of sebum. Seborrhea typically affects the back, face and flanks causing scaly, flaky, itchy, red skin. 
Seborrheic dermatitis is a common, inflammatory skin condition that causes flaky, white to yellowish scales to form on oily areas such as the scalp, face or inside the ear. It can occur with or without reddened skin. A.D.A.M. Cradle cap is the term used when seborrheic dermatitis affects the scalp of infants. 
Seborrhea involves the inflammation of the skin in localized parts of the body. Seborrhea typically occurs in areas of high oil production like the scalp, the face – especially alongside the nose and on the eyebrows – the chest, the underarms and within folds of loose, hanging skin. Although seborrhea is most commonly manifested as dandruff on the scalp, it’s not unusual for people to experience it in their abdominal folds or even on their ears. Seborrhea is one of the most common skin conditions, affecting up to five percent of the population.
The most common cause of dandruff is seborrheic dermatitis (seborrhea), which tends to occur on the scalp, ears, face, mid-chest, and mid-back. The cause of seborrhea is unknown, although a yeast that often lives on the skin, Malassezia furfur, may play a role. 
Seborrhea (say: seb-uh-ree-uh) is a common skin problem. It causes a red, itchy rash and white scales. When it affects the scalp, it is called “dandruff.” It can be on parts of the face as well, including the folds around the nose and behind the ears, the forehead, and the eyebrows and eyelids. Seborrhea also affects adults and elderly persons, and is more common in men than in women. Seborrhea occurs more frequently in persons with oily skin. It is also common in patients with Parkinson's disease or AIDS.
Seborrheic dermatitis, also known as seborrhea, sebopsoriasis, seborrheic eczema, dandruff and pityriasis capitis, is a chronic, relapsing and usually mild dermatitis. In infants seborrheic dermatitis is called cradle cap. Seborrheic dermatitis is an inflammatory skin disorder affecting the scalp, face, and torso. Typically, seborrheic dermatitis presents with scaly, flaky, itchy, and red skin. It particularly affects the sebaceous-gland-rich areas of skin
One common manifestation of seborrhea that affects the scalp is dandruff. Scalp seborrhea can also present as thick, flaky, localized patches of scale. On the face, seborrhea produces reddish-brown, dry-looking, or thick, greasy scales on the eyebrows, sides of the nose, and behind the ears. 
Seborrheic dermatitis on the face. Seborrheic (seb-o-REE-ik) dermatitis is a common skin condition that mainly affects your scalp. It causes scaly patches, red skin and stubborn dandruff. Seborrheic dermatitis can also affect oily areas of the body, such as the face, upper chest and back.
Dandruff. Cradle cap. That red, itchy rash with flaky scales could be seborrheic dermatitis, or seborrhea. It's a common skin disease that looks similar to psoriasis, eczema, or an allergic reaction. And it can appear on your body as well as your scal