Confidence votes 64. A lunar cycle is approximately 29.5 days, so to go from full moon to new moon (mid-cycle) would take just under 15 days. And it would take just under 15 days to go back to full moon and complete the cycle. 14 days. The full lunar cycle is roughly 4 weeks, and from full-moon to new-moon is half the cycle, so it would take (roughly) 2 weeks to go from full to new moon. 3 people found this useful. Edit. Share to:  1 Thirteen Moons by Charles Frazier Book Review Thirteen Moons is the second novel of American novelist Charles Frazier.
A blue moon is the name for the second full moon in a single month. The moon takes 29.5 days to go through a full cycle of phases, so on rare occassions (about once every 2 3/4 years), two full moons will fit in a single month. This is rare that is why it is called the blue moon
How long does it take our Moon to go around Earth? It takes 27 days, 7 hours, and 43 minutes for our Moon to complete one full orbit around Earth. This is called the sidereal month, and is measured by our Moon's position relative to distant fixed stars. However, it takes our Moon about 29.5 days to complete one cycle of phases (from new Moon to new Moon). This is called the synodic month. The difference between the sidereal and synodic months occurs because as our Moon moves around Earth, the Earth also moves around our Sun.
How long does it take the Moon to orbit the Earth? The Moon takes about 27 days (27 days, 7 hours, 43 minutes, 11.6 seconds) to go all the way around the Earth and return to its starting position. The Moon's orbit around the Earth is a slightly squashed circle called an ellipse. 
It takes the moon 29.5 days to go through all phases, from full moon, back to full moon for example. Relative to the background stars and ignoring the earth position relative … to our sun, the moon takes 27 days 7 hours and 43 minutes to orbit the earth-the sidereal orbit. How long does it take the moon to go from full-moon phase to new-moon phase? The full lunar cycle is roughly 4 weeks, and from full-moon to new-moon is half the cycle, so it would take (roughly) 2 weeks to go from full to new moon. 3 people found this useful. Ed
The Moon itself puts out no light at all. It takes about four weeks for the Moon to orbit once around Earth. During this time, the Moon's position relative to Earth and the Sun is constantly changing. During part of its journey, the Moon is between Earth and the Sun. Then, a few days later, it is off to one side. Technically, each phase, just like the one called a New Moon, when the Moon is exactly between Earth and the Sun, lasts only a brief instant. But to our eyes, a New Moon can last for a few days, representing the time that the Moon appears in the sky too near the Sun's position for us to see it at all.