The protagonist is the main character of the story. Everything  evolves around him/her. Usually, in a story, the protagonist wants  to reach a goal, but there are many obsta … cles are in his path.  These obstacles can be natural (a storm, a tornado) or human. The protagonist is the main character of the story. Everything evolves around him/her. Usually, in a story, the protagonist wants to reach a goal, but many obstacles are in hi … s path to reach this goal.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The definition of a protagonist is the character whose actions move the plot along. So he needs to be someone whose actions affect what the other characters do or what events take place. 
Archetype Definition. In literature, an archetype is a typical character, an action or a situation that seems to represent such universal patterns of human nature. An archetype, also known as universal symbol, may be a character, a theme, a symbol or even a setting. Example #8. The Journey: The main character takes a journey that may be physical or emotional to understand his or her personality and the nature of the world. For example, Dante’s “The Divine Comedy ”, Fielding’s “Joseph Andrews”, Swift’s “Gulliver’s Travel” etc.
Lesson Summary. The term Gothic fiction refers to a style of writing that is characterized by elements of fear, horror, death, and gloom, as well as romantic elements, such as nature, individuality, and very high emotion. This style of fiction began in the mid 1700s with a story titled, The Castle of Otranto, in 1764 by Horace Walpole. This story is considered to be the first of the Gothic fiction tales, since it encompassed many of the characteristics of the genre. The term Gothic actually originated as a term belittling the architecture and art of the period, which was dark, decaying, and dismal.
1 Task 1• Create your own Gothic protagonist. 2  Write a brief description of someone that you could imagine as being the main character in a gothic tale. 3  Include reference to physical appearance.• Consider: age, gender, voice, dominant colouring, profession, nationality, status etc. 1 2. 2  Task 1• Create your own Gothic protagonist. 3
By Patrick Kennedy. Definition: Main Ideas: In the most general terms, Gothic literature can be defined as writing that employs dark and picturesque scenery, startling and melodramatic narrative devices, and an overall atmosphere of exoticism, mystery, and dread.
1 The Gothic protagonist Heathcliff. 2  2. 3  Task 1• Create your own Gothic protagonist. 4  Write a brief description of someone that you could imagine as being the main character in a gothic tale. 1 2. 2  Task 1• Create your own Gothic protagonist. 3
The gothic protagonist. 1  1. 2  The Gothic protagonist Heathcliff. 3  2. 4  Task 1• Create your own Gothic protagonist. 5  Write a brief description of someone that you could imagine as being the main character in a gothic tale. 1 2. 2  Task 1• Create your own Gothic protagonist. 3
Gothic Protagonist Features of the Gothic Protagonist Definition A Protagonist is classed as the main character within Gothic literature. The Byronic hero is named after the English Romantic poet Lord Byron.The Byronic hero manifested itself from Romantic and Gothic heroes of the 19th century. Byrons first 'Byronic Hero' featured in his semi-autobiographical epic narrative poem Childe Harold's Pilgrimage Features of Gothic Protagonists.