The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) recommends a two-dose vaccine schedule for measles, mumps, rubella and varicella vaccines for children, with the first dose at age 12-15 months and the second at age 4-6 years. Vaccines and Immunizations. ShareCompartir. For the first dose of measles, mumps, rubella, and varicella vaccines at age 12-47 months, either MMR vaccine and varicella vaccine or MMRV vaccine may be used.
MMR is a two-shot series of vaccines usually given during childhood. A child should receive the first shot when he is between 12-15 months, and the second when he's between 4-6 years of age. If you're not sure if you have had the diseases or the vaccines (prior to 1971 it was given in three separate shots), you can get the MMR vaccine as an adult. Talk to your doctor about it if:
The first dose of measles-containing vaccine should be administered at 12 to 15 months of age and the second dose at 18 months of age or any time thereafter, but should be given no later than around school entry. The recommended minimum interval between doses of MMR vaccine is 4 weeks. Two doses of measles-containing vaccine should be given for routine immunization of children and for immunization of children and adolescents who have missed measles immunization on the routine schedule. MMRV vaccine may be used in children aged 12 months to 12 years.
1 Routine childhood immunization: administer two doses of mumps-containing vaccine (MMR or MMRV); the first dose at 12 to 15 months of age and the second dose at 18 months of age or any time thereafter, but should be given no later than around school entry. Adults (18 years of age and older). Mumps-susceptible adults should receive one or two doses of MMR vaccine as appropriate for age and risk factors (refer to Table 1). If two doses are needed, MMR vaccine is administered with a minimum interval of 4 weeks between doses.
The mother of a 6 month old asks the nurse when her baby will get the first MMR vaccine. a. (b) the MMR vaccine should be given no sooner than 12 months of age, and ideally between 12 & 15 months of age. (a) 3-6 months should not receive the MMR vaccine due to the presence of maternal antibodies. 
To prevent measles, children (and some adults) should be vaccinated with the measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccine. Two doses of this vaccine are needed for complete protection. Children should be given the first dose of MMR vaccine at 12 to 15 months of age. The second dose can be given 4 weeks later, but is usually given before the start of kindergarten at 4 to 6 years of age. 
1 If a dose of MMR is given before the child's first birthday, either because of travel to an endemic country or because of a local outbreak, this dose should be ignored and two further doses given at the recommended times (ie between 12 and 13 months of age and at 3 years and 4 months to 5 years of age). All children should be given the first dose prior to school entry, unless contra-indicated. See separate article Immunisation Schedule (UK) . 1  The optimum age for the first dose is 12-13 months. 2  A booster dose should be given between ages 3 years and 4 months to 5 years.
MMR vaccine is recommended routinely for all children at age 12 through 15 months, with a second dose at age 4 through 6 years. The second dose of MMR can be given as early as 4 weeks (28 days) after the first dose and be counted as a valid dose if both doses were given after the child's first birthday. No. A measles-containing vaccine administered before the first birthday should not be counted as part of the series. MMR should be repeated when the child is age 12 through 15 months (12 months if the child remains in an area where disease risk is high).
The first dose of mumps-containing vaccine should be administered at 12 to 15 months of age and the second dose at 18 months of age or any time thereafter, but should be given no later than around school entry. The recommended minimum interval between doses of MMR vaccine is 4 weeks. Adults (18 years of age and older). Mumps-susceptible adults should receive one or two doses of MMR vaccine as appropriate for age and risk factors (refer to Table 1). If two doses are needed, MMR vaccine is administered with a minimum interval of 4 weeks between doses.
1 Routine childhood immunization: administer two doses of measles-containing vaccine (MMR or MMRV); the first dose at 12 to 15 months of age and the second dose at 18 months of age or any time thereafter, but should be given not later than around school entry. Two doses of measles-containing vaccine should be given for routine immunization of children and for immunization of children and adolescents who have missed measles immunization on the routine schedule. MMRV vaccine may be used in children aged 12 months to 12 years.