On a FHA loan, the seller may pay all the closing costs. However, the buyer must make a minimum 3 percent investment in the property-whether as part of the closing costs, a down payment or pre-paid items. The 3 percent can be from the buyers own funds or from a family member's gift. 
If you don't have enough cash to pay the closing costs, you can often get the closing costs added to the amount of the loan. For example, if the loan amount is for $150,000, and the closing costs are $4500, you'd add the closing costs to the loan amount so you'd actually be borrowing $154,500 total. Tip: Ask the seller to pay some of the closing costs. If you're short on cash for the closing costs and can't roll the closing costs into the mortgage, ask the seller if they're willing to pay part of the closing costs. It's not unusual for buyers to ask for this. Usually the worst that can happen is that they say no.
Closing costs can save you money on your taxes if you itemize. In a real estate sales transaction, the buyer can negotiate certain concessions. A seller may agree to pay a portion or all of the buyer's closing costs, up to a certain amount. Seller-paid closing costs may benefit both parties. A seller can fetch a higher price for his property and the buyer does not have to come in with as much out-of-pocket money to close. 
Tip: Get the lender to pay the closing costs. If you're short on cash for the closing costs and can't roll the closing costs into the mortgage, some lenders will pay part or all of the closing costs, but in exchange you'll have to pay a higher interest rate on the loan, perhaps 0.25% or 0.50% higher. Tip: Ask the seller to pay some of the closing costs. If you're short on cash for the closing costs and can't roll the closing costs into the mortgage, ask the seller if they're willing to pay part of the closing costs. It's not unusual for buyers to ask for this. Usually the worst that can happen is that they say no.
VA loans allow the seller to pay all of the buyer’s mortgage-related closing costs and up to 4% of the purchase price in concessions, which can cover things like prepaid taxes and insurance and even paying off collections, judgments or leases at closing. Conventional loans are slightly more restrictive. You can also ask your lender to pay your closing costs. To make that happen, you’ll typically have to take a higher interest rate, which costs you more over the life of the loan. That may not be a big deal if you’re planning to stay in the home for just a few years.
Lenders have restrictions on how much sellers can credit to buyers at closing. The amount varies with the lender, but it's usually in the range of 3% to 6% of the purchase price, or $6,000 to $12,000 on a $200,000 purchase price. Most lenders will only allow a credit for the buyers' nonrecurring closing costs. The buyers offer to pay the sellers their price, but ask for the sellers to credit $5,000 to them at closing for their nonrecurring closing costs. In effect, the buyers are offering to pay only $195,000 for the home, not the $200,000 that appears in the price section of the purchase offer.
The difference is that-if you had paid your own closing costs-you could have got the house for $198,000.. Counteroffers went back and forth until the final figures were agreed upon. When a seller pays your closing costs, what makes it a deal is that it takes you less cash to buy the home. You don't save any money -- you just save it for now. ...and that can be very important, especially if your funds are limited. August 2002 by RealEstate ABC. 
When it comes to closing costs for FHA and USDA loans, sellers can contribute up to 6% of the sale price toward closing costs, prepaid expenses, discount points and more. You can’t put this money toward a down payment (though USDA loans do not require one). You can also ask your lender to pay your closing costs. To make that happen, you’ll typically have to take a higher interest rate, which costs you more over the life of the loan. That may not be a big deal if you’re planning to stay in the home for just a few years.
I would hope that you can get the seller to pay your closing costs. It is still a buyer's market so if the sell has priced the property correctly, they should be able to accommodate some or most of the closing costs for the seller.. If you can't get seller to pay all closing costs, due to restrictions, FHA up to 6% and Conventional will allow 3%, you can certainly ask for a portion. Any great offer is made up of both strategic price and terms.
A credit from the seller to pay for the buyers' nonrecurring closing costs can't exceed the actual amount of those costs. The lender might allow a credit of up to $6,000, but if the buyers' costs only total $5,000, the maximum the sellers can credit is $5,000. The buyers offer to pay the sellers their price, but ask for the sellers to credit $5,000 to them at closing for their nonrecurring closing costs. In effect, the buyers are offering to pay only $195,000 for the home, not the $200,000 that appears in the price section of the purchase offer.