Black bears prefer to live in dense forests where there is a variety of food to eat and they can raise their cubs. But they have adapted to many different habitats. They build their dens in caves, burrows, tree trunks, and brush or grass nests. They collect grass and leaves to pad their dens. Black bears are one of the more common species in North America. They live in many different habitats are not picky about what they eat. Their keen sense of smell gives them much information about their environment and foods they eat. The American black bear is considered a threatened species in some areas.
American black bears are native to North America and can be found throughout the United States, Canada, and northern Mexico. A home range is the region that an animal inhabits, which contains a supply of food, a source of water, and shelter. Male black bears roam across large distances, usually living within a home range of about sixty square miles. On the other hand, females usually only live within a range of about fifteen square miles. Males do not share home ranges, but there may be several females living within the home range of one male
The American black bear is the most commonly seen bear in North America and it has the largest geographic range. Black bears can be found as far south as central Mexico and as far north as northern Alaska and most of Canada. In the United States black bears are common in the east, along the west coast, in the Rocky Mountains and parts of Alaska. They are also found in a few small areas in the southwest and southeast. Black bear are the most timid and least dangerous of the bears found in North America.
Audio. Black bears are North America's most familiar and common bears. They typically live in forests and are excellent tree climbers, but are also found in mountains and swamps. Despite their name, black bears can be blue-gray or blue-black, brown, cinnamon, or even (very rarely) white. Size relative to a 6-ft (2-m) man: Black bears are North America's most familiar and common bears. They typically live in forests and are excellent tree climbers, but are also found in mountains and swamps.
The American black bear (Ursus americanus) is a medium-sized bear native to North America. It is the continent's smallest and most widely distributed bear species. Black bears are omnivores with their diets varying greatly depending on season and location. They typically live in largely forested areas, but do leave forests in search of food. The American black bear lived during the same period as short-faced bears (Arctodus simus and A. pristinus) and the Florida spectacled bear (Tremarctos floridanus). These Tremarctine bears evolved from bears that had emigrated from Asia to North America 7–8 ma.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Florida black bear (Ursus americanus floridanus) is a subspecies of the American black bear that has historically ranged throughout most of Florida and southern portions of Alabama, Georgia, and Mississippi. 
It is estimated that there are at least 600,000 black bears in North America. In the United States, there are estimated to be over 300,000 individuals. However, the Louisiana black bear (Ursus americanus luteolu) and Florida black bear (Ursus americanus floridanus) are unique subspecies with small populations. Range. The American black bear is distributed throughout North America, from Canada to Mexico and in at least 40 states in the U.S. They historically occupied nearly all of the forested regions of North America, but in the U.S. they are now restricted to the forested areas less densely occupied by humans.
Distribution. The American black bear is found only in North America. Black bears historically ranged over most of the forested regions of North America, and significant portions of northern Mexico. There are approximately 900,000 black bears in North America. 