Examples include settings by Ludwig van Beethoven and Franz Schubert. Among English speakers, however, Lied is often used interchangeably with  art song  to encompass works that the tradition has inspired in other languages. The poems that have been made into Lieder often center on pastoral themes or themes of romantic love. For German-speakers, the term Lied has a long history ranging from 12th-century troubadour songs (Minnesang) via folk songs (Volkslieder) and church hymns (Kirchenlieder) to 20th-century workers' songs (Arbeiterlieder) or protest songs (Kabarettlieder, Protestlieder).
Typically, Lieder are arranged for a single singer and piano, the Lied with orchestral accompaniment being a later development. Some of the most famous examples of Lieder are Schubert's  Der Tod und das Maedchen  (Mädchen death and The) maiden  And gretchen Am . spinnrade For German-speakers, the term Lied has a long history ranging from 12th-century troubadour songs (Minnesang) via folk songs (Volkslieder) and church hymns (Kirchenlieder) to 20th-century workers' songs (Arbeiterlieder) or protest songs (Kabarettlieder, Protestlieder).
Answer: Art song can be traced back to the Medieval period but became especially popular during the Romantic era. Thus, it is considered a genre of Romantic music. Art song is written by a professional composer and performed by a trained singer. The main characteristics of an art song are; 1  it is a short piece for solo voice.
1. Ballad: Normally a Romantic fairy tale with gothic elements, with the narrative taking the form of a strophic song (i.e. constant repeated verses with different words, usually with a postlude and sometimes with a contrasting section in a different key). 2. The vocal layout was usually very simple but took advantage of crescendos and word painting to punctuate and highlight certain words in the text by incorporating large interval leaps, creating a broader emotional spectrum. There are three notable structures used in Lieder.
As with the Classical period, the piano was still the main instrument during the early Romantic period. However, the piano underwent many changes and composers brought the piano to new heights of creative expression. As a result, music of the Romantic period is easily identifiable as compared to music forms from other periods. Romance, nocturne, etude and polonaise are examples of 19th century music. Romance refers to a short, lyrical piece for piano. It can also be for a solo instrument but with piano accompaniment.
Lied (. [liːt] ; plural Lieder [ˈliːdɐ] ; German for song) originally denoted in classical music the setting of Romantic German poems to music, especially during the late eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. For German-speakers, the term Lied has a long history ranging from 12th-century troubadour songs (Minnesang) via folk songs (Volkslieder) and church hymns (Kirchenlieder) to 20th-century workers' songs (Arbeiterlieder) or protest songs (Kabarettlieder, Protestlieder).
Died: Endenich, near Bonn, July 29, 1856. A master of the more intimate forms of musical compostitions, Schumann is unique in music history as being one of the great composers who concentrated on one musical genre at a time, with the bulk of his earliest compositions being for the piano. 
Lieder are a predominately German form of songs that developed during the Romanticism of the nineteenth century for a solo vocalist and piano accompaniment. The genre's most renowned composers were Franz Schubert and Robert Schumann, who began to apply poetry by famous and amateur writers alike to music. The vocal layout was usually very simple but took advantage of crescendos and word painting to punctuate and highlight certain words in the text by incorporating large interval leaps, creating a broader emotional spectrum. There are three notable structures used in Lieder.
Elfen Lied (エルフェンリート, Erufen Rīto) is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Lynn Okamoto. It was originally serialized in Shueisha 's Weekly Young Jump from June 2002 to August 2005, with the 107 chapters collected into twelve tankōbon volumes. Elfen Lied involves themes of social alienation, identity, prejudice, revenge, abuse, jealousy, regret and the value of humanity. It is also noted for the graphic violence and emotional themes of how the characters change through the whole story.