Two types of spleen tissue: red pulp and white pulp. The spleen is composed of two primary regions namely, red pulp and white pulp. The red pulp makes up for little more than three-fourth of the spleen. 
For this reason, most of the immune system work of the spleen occurs within the red pulp. This red pulp is made up of splenic cords (also called the cords of ... Click to read more below. The hematogenous red pulp is (with the white pulp) one of two types of tissue within the spleen making up the splenic pulp. Red Pulp. The hematogenous red pulp is (with the white pulp) one of two types of tissue within the spleen making up the splenic pulp.
The spleen is found on the left side of your body, behind the stomach on a level with the 9th to 11th ribs. It is similar in structure to a lymph node, and is the largest lymphatic organ in the body. The spleen contains two main types of tissue-white pulp and red pulp. White pulp is lymphatic tissue (material which is part of the immune system) mainly made up of white blood cells. Red pulp is made up of venous sinuses (blood-filled cavities) and splenic cords. 
Dentin is a bone-like material that makes up most of the tooth's structure. It is covered by the enamel in the crown and by the cementum in the root area of the tooth. It engulfs and protects the living part of the tooth, the pulp tissue. 
The types of tissues that make up your heart are cardiac muscle tissue, nerve tissue and blood tissue. The cardiac muscle tissue contracts, making the heart pump. The nerve ti … ssue brings messages that tell the heart how fast to beat. The blood tissue is carried from the heart to other organs of the body. well the intestine itself is composed of smooth muscle. It is composed of epithelial tissue, muscle tissue, and the glandular cells. The inner layer is of the epithelial tissu … e. This contains vilis and mucous for the digestion process.
The red pulp of the spleen is composed of connective tissue known as the cords of Billroth and many splenic sinuses that are engorged with blood, giving it a red color. Its primary function is to filter the blood of antigens, microorganisms, and defective or worn-out red blood cells. The spleen is made of red pulp and white pulp, separated by the marginal zone; 76-79% of a normal spleen is red pulp.
The dental pulp is the part in the center of a tooth made up of living connective tissue and cells called odontoblasts. The dental pulp is a part of the dentin–pulp complex (endodontium). Apical foramen is the opening of the radicular pulp into the periapical connective tissue. The average size is 0.3 to 0.4 mm in diameter. There can be two or more foramina separated by a portion of dentin and cementum or by cementum only.