Note: Applicable to substance macromolecular in nature like cross-linked. systems that can be considered as one macromolecule. A polymer (/ˈpɒlɨmər/) (Greek poly- , many + -mer, parts) is a large molecule, or macromolecule, composed of many repeated subunits. A common means of expressing the length of a chain is the degree of polymerization, which quantifies the number of monomers incorporated into the chain. As with other molecules, a polymer's size may also be expressed in terms of molecular weight.
Noun. 1. polymer-a naturally occurring or synthetic compound consisting of large molecules made up of a linked series of repeated simple monomers. chemical compound, compound - (chemistry) a substance formed by chemical union of two or more elements or ingredients in definite proportion by weight. pol·y·mer. Any of various chemical compounds made of smaller, identical molecules (called monomers) linked together. Some polymers, like cellulose, occur naturally, while others, like nylon, are artificial.
polymer-Computer Definition. (1) Meaning many parts, it is a material constructed of smaller molecules of the same substance that form larger molecules. For example, plastic is a synthetic polymer, while protein is a natural polymer. See polymer semiconductor. (plural polymers). ( 1 organic chemistry) A long or larger molecule consisting of a chain or network of many repeating units, formed by chemically bonding together many identical or similar small molecules called monomers. 2  A polymer is formed by polymerization, the joining of many monom
Definition of POLYMER for Kids. : a chemical compound that is made of small molecules that are arranged in a simple repeating structure to form a larger molecule. noun poly·mer \ˈpael-ˈpäl-ə\. mər polymer. noun poly·mer \ˈpae-ˈpä-lə\. : mər a chemical compound that is made of small molecules that are arranged in a simple repeating structure to form a larger. molecule noun·poly \mer-ˈpael-ˈpäl\. ə
Polymer. Definition. noun, plural: polymers. (1) A compound made up of several repeating units (monomers) or protomers. (2) The product of polymerization. Supplement. Polymers are made from monomers linked by chemical bonds. They are produced by polymerization, and occur either naturally or synthetically.
Full Definition of POLYMER. : a chemical compound or mixture of compounds formed by polymerization and consisting essentially of repeating structural units. — poly·mer·ic \ˌpae-ˌpä-lə-ˈmer\ ik. — adjective·poly·mer \ism-pə-ˈli-mə-ˌri, zəm-ˈpae-ˈpä-\ lə. Mə noun see polymer Defined-for english. language learners polymer. noun poly·mer \ˈpae-ˈpä-lə\. : mər a chemical compound that is made of small molecules that are arranged in a simple repeating structure to form a larger. molecule noun·poly \mer-ˈpael-ˈpäl\. ə mər
Polymer Definition. A polymer is a large molecule made up of chains or rings of linked monomer units. Polymers usually have high melting and boiling points. Examples: PVC (poly vinyl chloride), polystyrene, cellulose. 
The term polymer derives from the ancient Greek word πολύς (polus, meaning many, much) and μέρος (meros, meaning parts), and refers to a molecule whose structure is composed of multiple repeating units, from which originates a characteristic of high relative molecular mass and attendant properties. A common means of expressing the length of a chain is the degree of polymerization, which quantifies the number of monomers incorporated into the chain. As with other molecules, a polymer's size may also be expressed in terms of molecular weight.
Full Definition of POLYMER. : a chemical compound or mixture of compounds formed by polymerization and consisting essentially of repeating structural units. — poly·mer·ic \ˌpae-ˌpä-lə-ˈmer\ ik. — adjective·poly·mer \ism-pə-ˈli-mə-ˌri, zəm-ˈpae-ˈpä-\ lə. mə noun polymer. noun poly·mer \ˈpae-ˈpä-lə\. : mər a chemical compound that is made of small molecules that are arranged in a simple repeating structure to form a larger. molecule noun·poly \mer-ˈpael-ˈpäl\. ə mər