Avena sativa or oats is a species of cereal grain that is grown for its seed, also known with the same name. Oats belong to the same classification as wheat, rye, barley and are a popular breakfast cereal in many parts of the world. Oats grow in temperate regions and have a lower summer heat requirement.
1 Oat Groats/Scottish Oats/Steel Cut Oats: These oats are closest to the whole grain oats. 2  The oats groats are cut into small pieces with steel blades and packaged. 3  Oat Bran: Oat bran is similar to wheat bran that is separated from the oats and packaged and sold separately.
Porridge vs Oats. The difference between porridge and oats mainly stems from the ingredients used to make them. All infants, when they are weaned from mother’s milk are given food first in a semi-solid or semi-liquid form, and it is referred to as porridge. Porridge is a generic name.
Oats are typically eaten by humans as oatmeal or rolled oats, while wheat is a raw product that is used to make flours for baking cakes and pastries. 2. Wheat can also be used in construction, harnessing fuels, and for making beer or other similar alcoholic beverages. 3.
The difference between porridge and oats mainly stems from the ingredients used to make them. All infants, when they are weaned from mother’s milk are given food first in a semi-solid or semi-liquid form, and it is referred to as porridge.
Whole oat products include whole grain oat groats, steel cut oats and thick oats. Whole Wheat. Whole wheat is the wheat form of a whole grain. The reason why whole wheat is better than processed wheat is because whole wheat contains more nutrients and vitamins than refined and processed wheat.
As you can see, the main difference between porridge and oats or oatmeal is the grain that is used to making the dish. If you use only oats to make the dish, that porridge is known as oatmeal.
The term whole grain refers to a variety of grains, including wheat, corn, rice, oats and rye, which are still in their natural form. Whole grains have a bran, germ and endosperm. To be considered a whole grain, the entire grain must still be intact and not just the endosperm, as is the case in refined grains.
Oatmeal refers to ground/crushed/cut oats, or to oatmeal porridge (oatmeal cooked in milk or water). Two of the most widely-eaten forms of oatmeal are steel-cut oats and rolled oats. When the oat kernels (commonly called the groats) are chopped, the oats are called steel-cut.