Reaction type: Nucleophilic Substitution (SN1 or SN2). Summary: 1  When treated with HBr or HCl alcohols typically undergo a nucleophilic substitution reaction to generate an alkyl halide and water. Reaction of Alcohols with other Halogenating agents (SOCl2, PX3). Reaction type: Nucleophilic Substitution (SN1 or SN2). Summary: 1  Alcohols can also be converted to alkyl chlorides using thionyl chloride, SOCl2, or phosphorous trichloride, PCl3. 2  Alkyl bromides can be prepared in a similar reaction using PBr3. 3  Used mostly for 1o and 2o ROH. 4  In each case a base is used to mop-up the acidic by-product
To summarize, since alcohols can be made into alkyl halides and can also be made into aldehydes and ketones, they are important starting points for carrying out a Grignard synthesis. As products of Grignard syntheses, they are also useful materials to begin a new cycle. Since the product here is a secondary alcohol, the scheme could be carried onwards through its oxidation to a ketone and/or its conversion to an alkyl bromide, etc.
The alcohol product of this sequence can be used to make an alkyl halide to start a new sequence, which could be the starting point for a further sequence, etc. This makes alcohols extremely valuable synthetic reagents. Since the product here is a secondary alcohol, the scheme could be carried onwards through its oxidation to a ketone and/or its conversion to an alkyl bromide, etc.
Summary. Alcohols (R-OH), and alkyl halides, R-X (X = F, Cl, Br or I) are important functional groups as they are fundamental building blocks (starting materials, reagents) for the synthesis of more complex organic materials. Alkyl halides can be prepared via substitution reactions: 
For more information, see Halomethane. Haloalkane or alkyl halides are the compounds which have the general formula ″RX″ where R is an alkyl or substituted alkyl group and X is a halogen (F, Cl, Br, I). Haloalkanes have been known for centuries. Chloroethane was produced synthetically in the 15th century. 
Protonation of the alcoholic oxygen to make a better leaving group. This step is very fast and reversible. The lone pairs on the oxygen make it a Lewis base. Step 2: Cleavage of the C-O bond allows the loss of the good leaving group, a neutral water molecule, to give a carbocation intermediate. Reaction of Alcohols with other Halogenating agents (SOCl2, PX3). Reaction type: Nucleophilic Substitution (SN1 or SN2). Summary: 1  Alcohols can also be converted to alkyl chlorides using thionyl chloride, SOCl2, or phosphorous trichloride, PCl3. 2  Alkyl bromides can be prepared in a similar reaction using PBr3. 3  Used mostly for 1o and 2o ROH. 4  In each case a base is used to mop-up the acidic by-product
A tertiary halogenoalkane (haloalkane or alkyl halide) is formed. REPLACING THE-OH GROUP IN ALCOHOLS BY A HALOGEN. This page looks at reactions in which the-OH group in an alcohol is replaced by a halogen such as chlorine or bromine. It includes a simple test for an-OH group using phosphorus(V) chloride. Reactions involving hydrogen halides. The general reaction looks like this: