Polio is an infectious disease caused by a virus that lives in the throat and intestinal tract. It is most often spread through person-to-person contact with the stool of an infected person and may also be spread through oral/nasal secretions. Most people should get polio vaccine when they are children. Children get 4 doses of IPV at these ages: 2 months, 4 months, 6-18 months, and a booster dose at 4-6 years. OPV has not been used in the United States since 2000 but is still used in many parts of the world.
DTaP/IPV/Hib is a 5-in-1 vaccine that is given to babies to develop immunity to five potentially deadly diseases: diphtheria, tetanus, whooping cough (pertussis), polio and Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib). DTaP/IPV (4-in-1) is a pre-school booster immunisation given to toddlers. Td/IPV is a booster immunisation given to adolescents for tetanus, diphtheria and polio. Diphtheria is a respiratory disease that can cause breathing problems, paralysis, heart failure and death. DTaP/IPV/Hib is approved for use in babies. At about 12 – 13 months, a combined Hib and meningitis C vaccine is given. DTaP/IPV, which has a reduced dose of the diphtheria, pertussis and polio vaccines, is given to children at about three years. Td/IPV is given to adolescents between the ages of 13 and 18.
1 who have never been vaccinated against polio should get 3 doses of IPV: 2  Two doses separated by 1 to 2 months, and. 3  A third dose 6 to 12 months after the second. 4  who have had 1 or 2 doses of polio vaccine in the past should get the remaining 1 or 2 doses. Polio is a disease caused by a virus. It enters the body through the mouth. Usually it does not cause serious illness. But sometimes it causes paralysis (can't move arm or leg), and it can cause meningitis (irritation of the lining of the brain).
There are two types of vaccine that protect against polio: inactivated poliovirus vaccine (IPV) and oral poliovirus vaccine (OPV). IPV is given as an injection in the leg or arm, depending on the patient's age. Polio vaccine may be given at the same time as other vaccines. Most people should get polio vaccine when they are children. Children get 4 doses of IPV at these ages: 2 months, 4 months, 6-18 months, and a booster dose at 4-6 years. OPV has not been used in the United States since 2000 but is still used in many parts of the world.
IPV is produced from wild-type poliovirus strains of each serotype that have been inactivated (killed) with formalin. As an injectable vaccine, it can be administered alone or in combination with other vaccines (e.g., diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B, and haemophilus influenza). 
The 5-in-1 vaccine, also known as the DTaP/IPV/Hib vaccine, is one of the first vaccines that your baby will have. It's given as a single injection to boost your baby's protection against five different childhood diseases, diphtheria, tetanus, whooping cough (pertussis) , polio, and Hib (Haemophilus influenzae type b). 
The Salk vaccine, or inactivated poliovirus vaccine (IPV), is based on three wild, virulent reference strains, Mahoney (type 1 poliovirus), MEF-1 (type 2 poliovirus), and Saukett (type 3 poliovirus), grown in a type of monkey kidney tissue culture (Vero cell line), which are then inactivated with formalin. Oral polio vaccine (OPV) is an attenuated vaccine, produced by the passage of the virus through non-human cells at a sub-physiological temperature, which produces spontaneous mutations in the viral genome.
Also called the “Salk vaccine”, IPV consists of inactivated (killed) poliovirus strains of all three poliovirus types. IPV is given by intramuscular injection and needs to be administered by a trained health worker. The inactivated polio vaccine produces antibodies in the blood to all three types of poliovirus. In the event of infection, these antibodies prevent the spread of the virus to the central nervous system and protect against paralysis.
Two polio vaccines are used throughout the world to provide immunity to the virus that causes poliomyelitis (or polio). The first was developed by Jonas Salk through the use of HeLa cells and first tested in 1952. Oral polio vaccine (OPV) is an attenuated vaccine, produced by the passage of the virus through non-human cells at a sub-physiological temperature, which produces spontaneous mutations in the viral genome.