The National Cholesterol Education Program sets guidelines for triglyceride levels: Normal triglycerides means there are less than 150 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL). Borderline high triglycerides = 150 to 199 mg/dL. High triglycerides = 200 to 499 mg/dL. Very high triglycerides = 500 mg/dL or higher. High triglyceride levels may lead to heart disease, especially in people with low levels of good cholesterol and high levels of bad cholesterol, and in people with type 2 diabetes. Experts disagree, though, on just how bad of an effect high triglyceride levels by themselves have on the heart.
1 Normal triglyceride levels in the blood are less than 150mg per deciliter (mg/dL). 2  Borderline levels are between 150-200 mg/dL. 3  High levels of triglycerides (greater than 200 mg/dl) are associated with a increased risk of atherosclerosis and therefore coronary artery disease and stroke. Triglyceride and cholesterol levels are measured in the blood to provide a method of screening for this risk. 1 
1 Borderline levels are between 150-200 mg/dL. 2  High levels of triglycerides (greater than 200 mg/dl) are associated with a increased risk of atherosclerosis and therefore coronary artery disease and stroke. 3  Extremely high triglyceride level s (greater than 500mg/dl) may cause pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas). Triglyceride and cholesterol levels are measured in the blood to provide a method of screening for this risk. 1  Normal triglyceride levels in the blood are less than 150mg per deciliter (mg/dL).
Triglyceride Ranges. A triglyceride level less than 150 mg/dL is considered ideal for adults, according to the National Cholesterol Education Program. A triglyceride level of 150 to 200 mg/dL is borderline high. A triglyceride result of 200 to 499 mg/dL is high, and levels of 500 mg/dL or more are very high. There can be some variability in normal triglyceride levels, depending on your age and other factors.
When measuring total cholesterol levels, low-density lipoprotein (LDL), high-density lipoprotein (HDL), and triglycerides are used in the measurement. For adults, standard cholesterol levels are: 1  Less than 200 mg/dL is desirable. 2  Between 200 - 239 mg/dL is considered borderline. 3  Over 240 mg/dL is considered high.
A normal triglyceride level is defined as less than 200 mg/dl of blood Triglycerides have a close relationship with HDL (the good) cholesterol, and many of the factors that effect lowering HDL also effect the elevation of triglycerides. 
Test Results. If your blood triglyceride levels are normal, your test results will be less than 150 milligrams per deciliter. The range for borderline high triglycerides is 150 to 199 milligrams per deciliter. The range for high is 200 to 499 milligrams per deciliter. Any level above 499 is considered very high. 
Elevated triglycerides place an individual at risk for atherosclerosis. Triglyceride and cholesterol levels are measured in the blood to provide a method of screening for this risk. 1  Normal triglyceride levels in the blood are less than 150mg per deciliter (mg/dL).
Triglycerides are one of the types of fat in the body and your level can be measured with a blood test. The test is more accurate if it is done after fasting from food and drinks for 9 to 12 hours. The normal range for triglyceride level for adults is less than 150 mg/dL. A triglyceride level less than 150 mg/dL is considered ideal for adults, according to the National Cholesterol Education Program. A triglyceride level of 150 to 200 mg/dL is borderline high. A triglyceride result of 200 to 499 mg/dL is high, and levels of 500 mg/dL or more are very high. There can be some variability in normal triglyceride levels, depending on your age and other factors.
Triglyceride levels in the blood are measured by a simple blood test. Often, triglycerides are measured as part of a lipoprotein panel (lipid panel) in which triglycerides, cholesterol, HDL (high density lipoprotein), and LDL (low density lipoprotein) are measured at the same time. Triglyceride and cholesterol levels are measured in the blood to provide a method of screening for this risk. 1  Normal triglyceride levels in the blood are less than 150mg per deciliter (mg/dL).