der·ma·to·phyte. A fungus that causes superficial infections of the skin, hair, and/or nails, that is, keratinized tissues. Species of Epidermophyton, Microsporum, and Trichophyton are regarded as dermatophytes, but causative agents of tinea versicolor, tinea nigra, and cutaneous candidiasis are not so classified. 
Ringworm or dermatophytosis is an infection caused by a particular type of fungus that has the ability to grow on the skin and use the superficial layers of the skin, hair or nails as a source of nutrition. Collectively the fungi able to do this are termed 'dermatophytes'. Although ringworm is a common term used to describe dermatophyte infections, this has nothing to do with worms. There are approximately 40 different species of dermatophyte fungi, each tending to cause infection in a particular host animal.
Dermatophytes (derived from Greek δέρματος (dermatos), from δέρμα, which means skin and -phyte, from phuton, phutón meaning) plant are a common label for a group of three types of fungus that commonly causes skin disease in animals and. humans Species capable of reproducing sexually belong in the teleomorphic genus Arthroderma, of the Ascomycota (see Teleomorph, anamorph and holomorph for more information on this type of fungal life cycle). Dermatophytes cause infections of the skin, hair and nails, obtaining nutrients from keratinized material.
Dermatophytes are fungi that require keratin for growth. These fungi can cause superficial infections of the skin, hair, and nails. Dermatophytes are spread by direct contact from other people (anthropophilic organisms), animals (zoophilic organisms), and soil (geophilic organisms), as well as indirectly from fomites.
There is an increased susceptibility to infection when there is a preexisting injury to the skin such as scares, burns, marching, excessive temperature and humidity. Dermatophytes are fungi that can cause infections of the skin, hair, and nails due to their ability to utilize keratin. The organisms colonize the keratin tissues and inflammation is caused by host response to metabolic by-products. 
The term  ringworm , commonly used to refer to such infections, is a misnomer, since the condition is caused by fungi of several different species and not by parasitic worms. The fungi that cause parasitic infection (dermatophytes) feed on keratin, the material found in the outer layer of skin, hair, and nails. These fungi thrive on warm and moist skin, but may also survive directly on the outsides of hair shafts or in their interiors. In pets, the fungus responsible for the disease survives in skin and on the outer surface of hairs. Currently, up to 20% of the population may be infected by dermatophytes at any given time. It is especially common among people who play sports involving skin-to-skin contact, wrestling in particular.
der·ma·to·phyte. A fungus that causes superficial infections of the skin, hair, and/or nails, that is, keratinized tissues. Species of Epidermophyton, Microsporum, and Trichophyton are regarded as dermatophytes, but causative agents of tinea versicolor, tinea nigra, and cutaneous candidiasis are not so classified. der·ma·to·phyte. A fungus that causes superficial infections of the skin, hair, and nails, i.e.
Dermatophytes are fungi that require keratin for growth. These fungi can cause superficial infections of the skin, hair, and nails. Dermatophytes are spread by direct contact from other people (anthropophilic organisms), animals (zoophilic organisms), and soil (geophilic organisms), as well as indirectly from fomites. Less frequently, superficial skin infections are caused by nondermatophyte fungi (e.g., Malassezia furfur in tinea [pityriasis] versicolor) and Candida species. This article reviews the diagnosis and treatment of common dermatophyte infections.
Description: Dermatophytosis (tinea or ringworm) of the scalp, glabrous skin, and nails is caused by a closely related group of fungi known as dermatophytes which have the ability to utilise keratin as a nutrient source, i.e. they have a unique enzymatic capacity [keratinase]. 
Dermatophytes (the Greek for skin plants) are a common label for a group of three types of fungus that cause skin, hair and nail disease in animals and humans. These anamorphic (asexual or imperfect fungi) genera are: Microsporum, Epidermophyton and Trichophyton. 