Ignorance is lack of knowledge about a thing in a being capable of knowing. Fundamentally speaking and with regard to a given object ignorance is the outcome of the limitations of our intellect or of the obscurity of the matter itself. In this article it is the ethical aspect and consequences of ignorance that are directly under consideration.
For other uses, see Ignorance (disambiguation) . Ignorance is a state of being uninformed (lack of knowledge). The word ignorant is an adjective describing a person in the state of being unaware and is often used as an insult to describe individuals who deliberately ignore or disregard important information or facts. Ignoramus is commonly used in the UK, Ireland, and the US as a term for someone who is willfully ignorant. Writer Thomas Pynchon articulated about the scope and structure of one's ignorance: Ignorance is not just a blank space on a person's mental map. It has contours and coherence, and for all I know rules of operation as well.
Ignorance is the condition of being uninformed or uneducated; i.e., lacking knowledge or information. 
Ignorance  is a song by the American rock band Paramore. It was released in July 7, 2009 as the lead single from the band's third studio album, Brand New Eyes (2009). The song was written by band members Josh Farro and Hayley Williams, and composed by Farro. 
Full Definition of IGNORANCE. : the state or fact of being ignorant: lack of knowledge, education, or awareness. See ignorance defined for English-language learners. See ignorance defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Ignorance is a term that describes a person’s lack of knowledge. The term is derived from the Latin ‘ignorantia’, and has the root word ‘ignore’ which means to deliberately disregard something. In the case of ignorance, information is available but the subject is unaware, uneducated or uninformed about it. A person who exhibits ignorance is called an ‘ignorant’, which is commonly used as a derogatory term; and more degrading still, one can be called an ‘ignoramus’. Ignorance is not the same as stupidity, although they are usually interchanged in use when it comes to casual conversation. Stupid is more of a state of intelligence, or more precisely a state of being slow in mind
Ignorance. Ignorance is a state of being uninformed. The word ignorant is an adjective describing a person in the state of being unaware and is often used as an insult to describe individuals who deliberately ignore or disregard important information or facts. Ignoramus is commonly used in the US, the UK, and Ireland as a term for someone who is willfully ignorant. the condition of being ignorant; the want of knowledge in general, or in relation to a particular subject; the state of being uneducated or uninformed. Ignorance (noun). a willful neglect or refusal to acquire knowledge which one may acquire and it is his duty to have. Origin: [F., fr.