Knowledge center. The pancreas is a gland organ that is located in the abdomen. It is part of the digestive system and produces important enzymes and hormones that help break down foods. Enzymes, or digestive juices, produced by the pancreas are secreted into the small intestine to further break down food after it has left the stomach. The gland also produces the hormone insulin and secretes it into the bloodstream in order to regulate the body's glucose or sugar level.
The pancreas adds its own digestive juices and enzymes to food in the duodenum, via a small duct. This process is said to belong to the 'exocrine pancreas'. and the pancreas produces the hormone insulin, to help lower the amount of glucose in the blood. This is the role of the 'endocrine pancreas'. The pancreas produces the hormone insulin, to help lower the amount of glucose in the blood. This is the role of the 'endocrine pancreas'. The pancreas also produces the hormone glucagon which raises
Pancreas. The pancreas is a glandular organ that produces a number of hormones essential to the body. It forms an integral part of the digestive system. The pancreas is located below and behind the stomach, in the curve of the duodenum, which is a part of the small intestine. The pancreas secretes fluids that help break down food in the small intestine, along with bile and other fluids that aid the metabolism of fats and proteins
The pancreas is located deep in the abdomen. Part of the pancreas is sandwiched between the stomach and the spine. The other part is nestled in the curve of the duodenum (first part of the small intestine). 
The pancreas is about 6 inches long and sits across the back of the abdomen, behind the stomach. The head of the pancreas is on the right side of the abdomen and is connected to the duodenum (the first section of the small intestine) through a small tube called the pancreatic duct. The narrow end of the pancreas, called the tail, extends to the left side of the body.
The pancreas is located in the upper left portion of the abdomen, between the stomach and the spine. It lies partially behind the stomach. In the Related Links, it is the yell … ow organ. The pancreas produces the hormone insulin, to help lower the amount of glucose in the blood. This is the role of the 'endocrine pancreas'. The pancreas also produces the hormone glucagon which raises
Pancreatitis, Acute ». The pancreas is a gland located in the upper, posterior abdomen and is responsible for insulin production (endocrine pancreas) and the manufacture and secretion of digestive enzymes (exocrine pancreas) leading to carbohydrate, fat, and protein metabolism. 
1 The pancreas is located in the abdomen and is a gland organ. 2  It is an important part of the digestive system, producing enzymes and hormones that help break down foods. Enzymes, or digestive juices, produced by the pancreas are secreted into the small intestine to further break down food after it has left the stomach. The gland also produces the hormone insulin and secretes it into the bloodstream in order to regulate the body's glucose or sugar level.
Location of the pancreas. “The pancreas is located in the upper abdomen behind the stomach,” Knowlton said. The right end of the pancreas is wide and called the head. From the head, the organ tapers to the left. View full size image. The pancreas is an abdominal organ that is located behind the stomach and is surrounded by other organs, including the spleen, liver and small intestine. The pancreas is about 6 inches (15.24 centimeters) long, oblong and flat. The pancreas plays an important role in digestion and in regulating blood sugar