The name Letizia is an Italian baby name. In Italian the meaning of the name Letizia is: Glad. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 1. People with this name have a deep inner desire for a stable, loving family or community, and a need to work with others and to be appreciated.
[ 3 syll. le-ti-cia, let-ic-ia ] The baby girl name Leticia is pronounced as Leh-T IY-THYaa in Spanish or Leh-T IY-SYaa in Spanish-Latin American †. Leticia is used predominantly in the English, Hungarian, Portuguese, and Spanish languages, and it is derived from Latin origins. Leticia is a variant spelling of the name Laetitia (English and French). Leticia is uncommon as a baby name for girls. At the modest height of its usage in 1976, 0.066% of baby girls were given the name Leticia. It ranked at #232 then. The baby name has since fallen out of favor, and is currently of infrequent use.
English Meaning: The name Letitia is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Letitia is: name Letitia. 'Joyful;happy. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 4.
From the Late Latin name Laetitia which meant joy, happiness. This was the name of an obscure saint, who is revered mainly in Spain. 
Leticia /leti-cia/ [3 sylls.] as a name for girls. Leticia's roots are American and Latin, and the meaning of the name Leticia is happiness; joy. Leticia is a version of Latisha (American, Latin). Leticia is also a form of Letitia (Latin): Latin transcription of the name. See also Lakeisha and Tisha. 
Here are pictures of people with the name Leticia. Help us put a face to the name by uploading your pictures to BabyNames.com! 
Leticia is a rather unusual woman with a distinctive personality. This may be because she is quite reserved and enjoys cultivating an air of mystery, or perhaps because she lives her life without necessarily referring to the user manual and cares little for fashion or tradition... 
Leticia, Letizia (and other variants), derived from the Latin greeting laetitia (joy, gladness, delight, also the name Roman goddess of fertility and abundance), can refer to: 1  1 Places. 
What does Leticia mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Leticia is of Latin origin. The meaning of Leticia is joyful, happy. It is also of Portuguese and Spanish origin, where its meaning is happiness. Spanish names consist of one or more given names followed by TWO family names. Generally the first surname is the father's first surname and the second is the mother's first surname but this traditional order no longer required.
Laetitia /lae-ti-tia/ [3 sylls.] as a name for girls. Laetitia's name origin is Latin, and the name Laetitia means joy. Laetitia is an alternate spelling of Letitia (Latin): Latin transcription of the name. Compare last name Latouche. See also Tia. 