English Meaning: The name Bernard is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Bernard is: Strong as a bear. See also Bjorn. American Meaning: The name Bernard is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Bernard is: Strong as a bear. See also Bjorn. German Meaning: The name Bernard is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Bernard is: From an Old German compound meaning bear-hard, or brave as a bear. St Bernard of Menthon is the patron saint of mountaineers after whom the St Bernard dog used in mountain rescue work is named.
The masculine given name Bernard is of Germanic origin. The meaning of the name is from a Germanic compound Bern-hard meaning bear-hardy/brave/strong, or hardy/brave/strong as a bear. Bern-is the old form of bear, from West Germanic *beran- .
Bernard is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 7 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ber-nard. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1173 in baby name popularity for boys with 157 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Bernard Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Bernard has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Bernard to other names. The names Bearnard, Benat, Bernadette, Bernadine, Bernarda, Bernardo, Berneen, Bernt are all forms of Bernard. Just for fun, see the name Bernard in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Bernard in Nautical Flags page.
Bernard is uncommon as a baby name for boys. At the modest height of its usage in 1921, 0.394% of baby boys were given the name Bernard. Beornheard (Germanic) and Berinhard (Germanic) are older forms of Bernard. The name could also be from the Old English Beornheard, itself from the Old English words 'beorn' which means ' man ' or ' warrior ', and 'heard' which means 'brave'.
Derived from the Germanic element bern bear combined with hard brave, hardy. The Normans brought it to England, where it replaced the Old English cognate Beornheard. This was the name of several saints, including Saint Bernard of Menthon who built hospices in the Swiss Alps in the 10th century, and Saint Bernard of Clairvaux, a 12th-century theologian and Doctor of the Church. Another famous bearer was George Bernard Shaw (1856-1950), an Irish playwright and essayist.
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Bernard in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Bernard in Nautical Flags page.
Bernard /bern-ard/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced ber-NARD. Charted below is the birth name popularity of Bernard for boys. Bernard reached its apex rank of #47 in the U.S. during the years 1920-1929, but is not in the Top 1000 currently. (2014 Birth Statistics). Displayed below is a comparison of the usage of the boy name Bernard and related names. Barney, Bernardo, Bernhard, Bernie, Berry and Bjorn are the prominent variation forms of Bernard listed in the Top 1000
[ 2 syll. ber-nar(d) , be-rna-rd ] The baby boy name Bernard is pronounced as B AH R-NahRD or BahR-N AA RD in English, BehR-N AE R in French, or B EH R-NaaRT in Polish †. Beornheard (Germanic) and Berinhard (Germanic) are older forms of Bernard. The name could also be from the Old English Beornheard, itself from the Old English words 'beorn' which means ' man ' or ' warrior ', and 'heard' which means 'brave'.
Bernard is used chiefly in the Dutch, English, French, German, Italian, and Polish languages, and it is derived from Germanic origins. The name is of the meaning brave as a bear. A two-element name, it is from the elements ' ber ' meaning bear; ' hart ' brave, hardy. Beornheard (Germanic) and Berinhard (Germanic) are older forms of Bernard. The name could also be from the Old English Beornheard, itself from the Old English words 'beorn' which means ' man ' or ' warrior ', and 'heard' which means 'brave'.