Doubling or tripling your minimum payment on the card with the highest interest rate is a good way to start. Whatever payment boost you can afford, do it and stick with it. If you start by paying $150 on a credit card, keep on paying at least $150 each and every month until the card is paid off. Be sure to stick with your boosted payment amount even as your balance and minimum payments slip lower and lower. Remember: the aim is to get your balance to zero. Plus high balances on your credit cards can be bad for your credit scores. Low credit scores usually mean you will pay high interest rates, and with high interest rates, it’s harder to pay off debt. It’s truly a vicious circle.
The other consideration you want to make when paying your credit cards back is monitoring your reported overall credit card usage. Your credit card utilization refers to how much of your available credit card limits you use per month, and is an important credit factor you can track on Credit Karma. It's generally recommended to keep your overall credit utilization below 30 percent. However, this does not mean that lower is always better. So when you're paying back your full credit card balances every month, it is valuable to keep track of when your lender generally reports to the credit bureaus. By doing this, you can make a point to have a balance at the time they report.
Even if all you can do is pay close to the minimum on a credit card, do pay it as early as possible in the billing cycle. For instance, your statement is available on November 11, pay it on November 11 rather than the due date of November 30. 
The number of months it will take to pay your credit card balance in full, given the monthly payment amount you plan to make, along with your estimated monthly purchases. When estimating your monthly charges, be sure to include any annual fees or other fees charged by the card issuer. 
Helpful to 6 out of 6 people. Best to wait I think. Your bank, Credit Union, or Credit Card company sends a report to the credit bureau on a monthly basis. If you charge and immediately pay it off, the chance of you having some debt on there is low. 
If you consistently pay off your bill as soon as you receive it, your balance will remain lower. If, on the other hand, you continue to charge up the card between receiving your bill and paying it off on the due date a couple of weeks later, your reported balance will be higher. Paying your credit cards on time is a no-brainer. But it might boost your credit score to pay your credit card bill early. Finance site Dough Roller explains how this is possible. Thirty percent of your credit score is made up of your credit utilization—basically, how much outstanding debt you have
1 Balance transfer fees A 3% charge is not uncommon for transferring the balance on your old credit card to a new one, usually to get a lower interest rate. 2  For every $1,000, it would cost you $30. 3  Transfer $10,000 and you could pay $300. 4  Look for a cap. Only charge items that you know you can pay off each month. If you already carry a balance, pay more than the minimum payment (or the most you can afford) to bring down your principal balance. Try to keep your balance as low as possible. Shop around before accepting a credit card offer.