Perimenopause Age. There is not a set age for perimenopause to start; however, most women report the first symptoms in their early 40s. Since that is only an average, beginning perimenopause at an older or younger age signifies nothing.
The average age of menopause in the United States is 51, but it is considered perfectly normal for a woman to go through it at any time between the ages of 35 and 59, says Lila Schmidt, MD, a reproductive endocrinologist in private practice in San Diego. “Anything above 35 is not premature,” she says. According to the National Institutes of Health, if you start your periods early (before age 12) and go through menopause late (after age 55), you have an increased risk for breast cancer.
The average American woman enters menopause by age 51, but the hormone level shifts that trigger menopause can actually begin years, even decades earlier. Known as perimenopause, this condition can begin as early as age 35, and lasts anywhere from a few months to 10 years. 
A few years before the average age of menopause occurs, your periods may be normal for a few months and then stop for another few months. You may experience periods that are more or less intense, and perhaps the duration and flow will start to vary. • Depression, • Irritability, • Infertility ,... Perimenopause age or peri menopause age can be defined as the time, perhaps a few years before menopause, where the hormonal changes and hormone imbalance are greater.
Perimenopause or menopause transition.. Perimenopause can begin 8 to 10 years before menopause, when the ovaries gradually produce less estrogen. It usually starts in a woman's 40s, but can start in the 30s as well. Perimenopause lasts up until menopause, the point when the ovaries stop releasing eggs.
Pre menopause age or premenopause age-most women begin to experience some type of gradual slowdown of their reproductive cycle resulting in premenopause symptoms and health issues somewhere between their early 30's to their 40's. • Depression, • Irritability, • Infertility ,... Perimenopause age or peri menopause age can be defined as the time, perhaps a few years before menopause, where the hormonal changes and hormone imbalance are greater.
Perimenopausal symptoms can begin as early as your 30s and last for six years or more. Most women will complete menopause between the ages of 47 and 55, with average age of 51. On occasion, a women can experience perimenopause much earlier. The symptoms can be very subtle and generally don't upset the quality of life, especially in the early years.
The average age for menopause in the United States is 51, according to the National Institute on Aging. Generally, most women experience onset between the ages of 40 and 60. Early menopause usually refers to cases where onset occurs before the age of 40. 
Follow us. Most women go through menopause in their late 40s or early 50s, but usually menopause symptoms start during perimenopause, which typically begins 10 years before the menopausal transition. During perimenopause, symptoms start to occur, and their severity is different for every woman. 
A. A. Menopause is the end of a woman's menstrual cycle and fertility. It happens when the ovaries no longer make estrogen and progesterone, two hormones needed for a woman's fertility, and periods have stopped for 1 year. Menopause happens naturally with age. But it can also happen as a result of surgery, treatment of a disease, or illness. 