The Winnipeg River is a Canadian river which flows from Lake of the Woods in the province of Ontario to Lake Winnipeg in Manitoba. This river is 235 kilometres (146 mi) long from the Norman Dam in Kenora to its mouth at Lake Winnipeg. Its watershed is 106,500 square kilometres (41,100 sq mi) in area, mainly in Canada. Major modern communities along the banks of the Winnipeg River include: Lac du Bonnet, Pinawa, Powerview, and Pine Falls, all in Manitoba, and Kenora, Minaki and Whitedog in Ontario. Whitedog is the home of the Wabaseemoong First Nation
In South America, there are many rivers that flow into the Amazon from the south, such as the Beni, Jurua, Tapajos, Xingu, and Tocantins, to name only a few. There are also north-flowing rivers in the northern part of South America that flow into the Caribbean and Atlantic. The Orinoco River in Venezuela flows in a clockwise arc, starting out northwest, then north, then east-northeast. And some of its tributaries, such as the Cuchivero, Caura, and Paragua flow north. To many Americans. . . , north is the wrong way for a river to flow, which leads to geographic confusion.. -- Angus Phillips, Simple Gifts of the Shenandoah, National Geographic, December 1996. From time to time, the library gets questions about rivers that flow north.
Pine River details Upper Pine The upper Pine flows is a stunning, free-flowing river that tumbles its way into Vallecito Reservoir. The public access is a few miles above the confluence. The upper sections of the Pine fish more like a large mountain stream, home to very nice trout. Pine Bellow Vallecito: Summer flows range from 550-850 CFS Winter flows range from 2-75 CFS. Guided trips on the Pine River AVA offers guided wade trips on the Pine River that flows through the San Juan National Forest Service, Weminuche Wilderness Area and a very special section of private water located below the dam.
The Cumberland River is a major waterway of the Southern United States. The 688-mile-long (1,107 km) river drains almost 18,000 square miles (47,000 km 2) of southern Kentucky and north-central Tennessee. The river flows generally west from a source in the Appalachian Mountains to its confluence with the Ohio River near Paducah, Kentucky, and the mouth of the Tennessee River. Beyond Cumberland Falls, the river turns abruptly west once again and continues to grow as it converges with other creeks and streams. It receives the Laurel and Rockcastle Rivers from the northeast and then the Big South Fork of the Cumberland River from the south.
Near Celina, the river crosses south into Tennessee, where it is joined by the Obey River and Caney Fork. Northeast of Nashville, the river is dammed twice more, forming Cordell Hull Lake and Old Hickory Lake. After flowing through Nashville and picking up the Stones River, the river is dammed to form Cheatham Lake. Beyond Cumberland Falls, the river turns abruptly west once again and continues to grow as it converges with other creeks and streams. It receives the Laurel and Rockcastle Rivers from the northeast and then the Big South Fork of the Cumberland River from the south.
The Mon (as most folks in our area call it) is the local favorite, the best nearby example of a north-flowing river. The Mon flows from West Virginia through Morgantown, crosses the Mason-Dixon line and continues northward to Pittsburgh, where it joins the Allegheny to become the Ohio River. To many Americans. . . , north is the wrong way for a river to flow, which leads to geographic confusion.. -- Angus Phillips, Simple Gifts of the Shenandoah, National Geographic, December 1996. From time to time, the library gets questions about rivers that flow north.
1 The volume of water in the Great Lakes would cover North America in about 1 metre (3.5 ft.) of water. 2  The water flows from streams and rivers that empty into the Great Lakes, from Lake Superior down through Niagara to Lake Ontario, then into the St. Lawrence River to the Atlantic Ocean. 1 The deepest section in the Niagara River is just below the Falls. 2  It is so deep it equals the height of the Falls above, 52 metres (170 ft.). 3  The Upper Niagara River extends 35 kilometres (22 mi.) from Lake Erie to the Cascade Rapids, which begin 1 kilometre (0.6 mi.) upstream from the Canadian Horseshoe Falls.