Nebraska is the lone ranger of states using a unicameral legislature. Clearly, not everyone is in agreement with the advantages of a one-house Congress. Let's now look at what the bicameral supporters have to say about the disadvantages of unicameral legislatures.
Bicameral and Unicameral are two types of legislature that show some difference between them in terms of their functioning and characteristics. Bicameral legislature has an upper house. On the other hand, unicameral legislature does not have an upper house. This is a major difference between the two words.
Definition of Unicameral Legislature. During the Revolutionary time period, the United States government operated under the Articles of Confederation, which provided for a unicameral legislature. The word 'cameral' comes from the Latin camera and the Greek kameral, both meaning chamber.
Within U.S. states, Nebraska is currently the only state with a unicameral legislature; after a state-wide vote, it changed from bicameral to unicameral in 1937. Nebraska's state legislature is also unique in the sense that it is the only state legislature that is entirely nonpartisan.
Another way of defining both bicameral and unicameral types of legislature is that bicameral has 2 houses, whereas unicameral legislature has only one house. Their names are derived from the two words, ‘bi’ and ‘uni’ meaning ‘two’ and ‘one’ respectively. A unicameral legislature has a single body of law makers.
A unicameral legislature is a type of government that only has one  house or chamber. The state of Nebraska is the only state that has  a unicameral legislature.
Nebraska has a unicameral legislature, as do Washington D.C. and the U.S. territories of Guam and the Virgin Islands. It is also important to note that, within the states, local government legislatures consisting of counties, cities, or other political subdivisions are typically unicameral with limited lawmaking power.
In government, bicameralism is the practice of having two legislative or parliamentary chambers. The relationship between the two chambers of a bicameral legislature can vary. In some cases, they have equal power, and in others, one chamber is clearly superior to the other.