Excitation-Contraction coupling & contraction in smooth muscle. Excitation-Contraction Coupling: Some of the most important differences between skeletal muscle and smooth muscle occur in excitation-contraction coupling. One element that is the same between the two forms of muscle is that calcium plays a starring role. Unfortunately, that is about the extent of the similarities. Unlike skeletal muscle, smooth muscle is dependent on two sources of calcium in order to initiate contraction. These two sources are: 1  calcium sequestered in the S.R. of the smooth muscle cell.
The sarcoplasmic reticulum of cardiac-muscle cells is not as well-developed as that of skeletal-muscle cells. Cardiac-muscle contraction is actin-regulated, meaning that the calcium ions come both from the sarcoplasmic reticulum (as in skeletal muscle) and from outside the cell (as in smooth muscle). Otherwise, the chain of events that occurs in cardiac-muscle contraction is similar to that of skeletal muscle. Compared to skeletal muscle, smooth-muscle cells are small. They are spindle-shaped, about 50 to 200 microns long and only 2 to 10 microns in diameter. They have no striations or sarcomeres.
Your body is composed of three types of muscle: skeletal muscle, smooth muscle, and cardiac muscle. Skeletal muscle makes up 40 percent of your total body weight, and smooth muscle and cardiac muscle each make up 5 percent of total body weight. Your muscles must contract in order to facilitate vital bodily functions. Although skeletal muscles and smooth muscles serve very different functions, both muscle groups use the same mechanism of contraction called the sliding filament model. Both muscle fibers are composed of thick filaments called myosin and thin filaments called actin
In skeletal muscle, the contraction allows the bone to move, thereby allowing your body to move. In the heart, the cardiac muscle pumps the blood into the arteries. The smooth muscles in blood vessels are used to pump blood in one direction (in veins, which is in low pressure, there are valves which prevents backflow). cardiac and skeletal muscles have one thing in common, that is they are both striated in contrast to the smooth muscles commonly found in the GIT. however the main diffe … rence between them is that cardiac muscles function involuntarily while skeletal muscles are under conscious control.
Contraction in skeletal muscle begins with a nerve impulse-acetlycholine is released at the neuromuscular junction and binds to receptors in the muscle. This causes the release of calcium ions from the sarcoplasmic reticulum. This calcium then binds to troponin, causing tropomyosin to move and allowing cross-bridges to form between the myosin and actin filaments. The actin is then pulled (slides) across the myosin. Unlike skeletal muscle, there is no neuromuscular junction or troponin in smooth muscle. Instead, contraction is started by the release of neurotransmitter vesicles (membrane bound containers) into the space between the cells. In smooth muscle calcium acts directly on the myosin head-causing cross-bridges to form. The muscle then contracts
The interaction of sliding actin and myosin filaments in smooth muscle is similar to skeletal muscles. There are differences in the proteins involved in contraction in vertebrate smooth muscle compared to cardiac and skeletal muscle. Contractions are initiated by the calcium-activated phosphorylation of myosin rather than calcium binding to the troponin complex that regulates myosin binding sites on actin in skeletal and cardiac muscle. Contractions in vertebrate smooth muscle are initiated by agents that increase intracellular calcium.
During contraction, the smooth-muscle cell's intermediate filaments help to draw the cell up, like closing a drawstring purse. Calcium ions regulate contraction in smooth muscle, but they do it in a slightly different way than in skeletal muscle: 1  Calcium ions come from outside of the cell. 2  Calcium ions bind to an enzyme complex on myosin, called calmodulin-myosin light chain kinase. Otherwise, the chain of events that occurs in cardiac-muscle contraction is similar to that of skeletal muscle. Compared to skeletal muscle, smooth-muscle cells are small. They are spindle-shaped, about 50 to 200 microns long and only 2 to 10 microns in diameter. They have no striations or sarcomeres.
Contraction of Smooth Muscle. Myosin filaments in smooth muscle are also activated by increases in cytosolic calcium but by a different mechanism than in skeletal/cardiac muscle. Seven transmembrane receptors trigger signaling cascades that lead to increases in cytosolic calcium. 1 Contrast the organization of myosin and actin filaments in smooth muscle with skeletal/cardiac muscle. 2  List the events from release of acetylcholine to contraction of sarcomeres in skeletal muscle cells.