I agree. My husband's name is Sean Patrick. Very Irish. Pretty name. My son's first name is Ethan and middle being Sean. I picked that because my husband's name is John plus I liked the name Shawn in general but thought that spelling didn't match and like Sean better. I also have a son named Ryan which goes with the Irish naming (although I'm only a little Irish).
Anglicisations of the name include Sean, Séan, Sean, Shane, Shayne, Shaine, Shon, shaun And. Shawn the Name shane comes from The Ulster english pronunciation of the, name whereas the Names, Shaun, shawn Or sean come from the way it is pronounced In, Munster, leinster And. connacht In 1066, the Norman duke, William the Conqueror conquered England, where the Norman French name Jahan / Johan (pronounced [dʒɛˈan]) came to be pronounced Jean, and spelled John. The Norman from the Welsh Marches, with the Norman King of England 's mandate invaded parts of Leinster and Munster in the 1170s.
Origin [edit]. The name originated in the Irish language. It is an adaption of the Anglo-Norman name Johan/John. In 1066, the Norman duke, William the Conqueror conquered England, where the Norman French name Jahan / Johan (pronounced [dʒɛˈan]) came to be pronounced Jean, and spelled John. The Norman from the Welsh Marches, with the Norman King of England 's mandate invaded parts of Leinster and Munster in the 1170s.
Sean seán is The irish For. John sean séan Is pronounced shane and Is the ulster. Dialect (spelling-SEAN) shh ann is a common spelling but 'actually, means, old' senior ancestor and is a common vocabulary word In the. irish language My son's first name is Ethan and middle being Sean. I picked that because my husband's name is John plus I liked the name Shawn in general but thought that spelling didn't match and like Sean better. I also have a son named Ryan which goes with the Irish naming (although I'm only a little Irish).
http://www.reddit.com/r/explainlikeimfive/comments/2fn69p/eli5_why_is_the_name_sean_pronounced_like_shawn/. explain this. There should be an accent on the letter a, which changes the pronunciation to the 'sh' sound. I believe that Sean is the 'correct' spelling and that the other versions are because non Irish people would pronounce the name as 'seen'. The same applies to the Welsh variation, Sion, which is also pronounced Shaun. As is often the case, the Wikipedia article is full of it! No one should ever believe what Wikipedia says without additional corroboration. Sean is the Gaelic form of the name John, which is, of course, found in the Bible, and was known in Ireland long before the Norman invasion.
Sean is the Irish form of John. The Gaelic speaking named their kids Sean. Shaun is the Scottish spelling of Sean. Shawn might be the way the Americans spell it. You can spell it the way you like as long as it sounds like the name.
Sean is the name of my cousin, and he is such a gentleman and so cool that I shall always like this name. However, I don't think this should be a girl's name. If you like the sound of this name and want to use it for a girl, spell it S-h-a-w-n. Sean means Old Man, Sean seán Means gift From god or The irish form Of. John My mom Wrote & Sean shawn on a piece of paper and Asked how would you pronounce?. This people ANSWERED-see & ANN, shawn So'i M. shawn
Baby names meanings search results: The name Sean is a baby boy name. The name Sean comes from the Irish origin. In Irish The meaning of the name Sean is: Irish variant of John: God is gracious; gift from God. 
-- fhrugby 5/3/2005. The name Sean is an ancient Gaelic name with multiple menaings but is definitely not the Gaelic or Irish form of John. Considering that the Gaelic language is more than 5,000 years old and the English language is a little over 1500 years old. Sean means Old Man, Sean seán Means gift From god or The irish form Of. John My mom Wrote & Sean shawn on a piece of paper and Asked how would you pronounce?. This people ANSWERED-see & ANN, shawn So'i M. shawn
Sean is commonly pronounced Shawn (Sean), seán but in the northern parts Of (ireland owing to a northern), dialect it is Pronounced, Shan shen Or (Shayn, sean séan with the accent on the e instead of), the a thus leading to The. variant shane In 1066, the Norman duke, William the Conqueror conquered England, where the Norman French name Jahan / Johan (pronounced [dʒɛˈan]) came to be pronounced Jean, and spelled John. The Norman from the Welsh Marches, with the Norman King of England 's mandate invaded parts of Leinster and Munster in the 1170s.