A teapot is a vessel used for steeping tea leaves or an herbal mix in boiling or near-boiling water, and for serving the resulting infusion which is called tea. 1 Russell's teapot, is an analogy, devised by Bertrand Russell, which attacks the unfalsifiability of religious claims, comparing them to the eponymous teapot. 2  The concept in turn inspired the title of the 1973 album Flying Teapot by the Franco-British rock band Gong.
Full Definition of TEAPOT. : a vessel with a spout and a handle in which tea is brewed and from which it is served. See teapot defined for English-language learners. Definition of TEAPOT for Kids. : a pot for making and serving tea.
Meaning: Pot for brewing tea; usually has a spout and handle. Classified under: Nouns denoting man-made objects. Hypernyms (teapot is a kind of...): pot (metal or earthenware cooking vessel that is usually round and deep; often has a handle and lid). Holonyms (teapot is a member of...): tea service; tea set (a set of china or silverware for serving tea).
A teapot has a rather distinctive shape, and its fame may sometimes have little to do with its primary function. 1  The Utah Teapot is a standard reference object of the computer graphics community, comparable to Hello, World for its popularity. 1 Russell's teapot, is an analogy, devised by Bertrand Russell, which attacks the unfalsifiability of religious claims, comparing them to the eponymous teapot. 2  The concept in turn inspired the title of the 1973 album Flying Teapot by the Franco-British rock band Gong.
A teapot is a vessel used for steeping tea leaves or an herbal mix in boiling or near-boiling water, and for serving the resulting infusion which is called tea. A small hole in the lid is necessary for air access inside to stop the spout from dripping and splashing when tea is poured. In modern times, a thermal cover called a tea cosy may be used to enhance the steeping or to prevent the contents of the teapot from cooling too rapidly.
Teapots usually have an opening with a lid at their top, where the dry tea and hot water are added, a handle for holding by hand and a spout through which the tea is served. Some teapots have a strainer built-in on the inner edge of the spout. 1 Russell's teapot, is an analogy, devised by Bertrand Russell, which attacks the unfalsifiability of religious claims, comparing them to the eponymous teapot. 2  The concept in turn inspired the title of the 1973 album Flying Teapot by the Franco-British rock band Gong.
The Teapot is a unique pistol manufactured by Dahl. Teapot is obtained from the mission You Are Cordially Invited: Tea Party located in Tundra Express. It is considered a Tiny Tina weapon.
The teapot is an enemy that appeared in Candy Box 2. It does not attack anything and has 1,000,000 HP. Killing it drops a giant spoon. It is in the desert fortress in the second room. 
Dry tea may be available either in tea bags or as loose tea, in which case a tea infuser or tea strainer may be of some assistance, either to hold the leaves as they steep or to catch the leaves inside the teapot when the tea is poured. 1 Russell's teapot, is an analogy, devised by Bertrand Russell, which attacks the unfalsifiability of religious claims, comparing them to the eponymous teapot. 2  The concept in turn inspired the title of the 1973 album Flying Teapot by the Franco-British rock band Gong.