A VSC does, however, provide repair coverage for your vehicle after the manufacturer’s warranty expires. A VSC is a contract between you and a VSC provider or administrator that states what is a covered repair and what is not. Endurance is an administrator of VSCs and does not sell warranties. There are numerous factors that contribute to an extended car warranty cost. Our policies contain what we call “moving parts.” These “moving parts” are determining factors such as age of vehicle, driving habits, vehicle mileage, and much more.
Find out if you are duplicating the car maker's warranty. New cars will come with a warranty from the manufacturer that will typically cover you for the first three years, or around 36,000 miles. One of the factors to consider when thinking about an extended warranty is whether you plan to keep the car much beyond the period covered by the manufacturer. 1 Generally you can purchase an extended warranty from the dealer, a warranty company or agent, an insurance company, a credit union, or a broker. 2  You can buy an extended warranty at any point after you have bought the car.
Instead of buying the warranty, invest that $1,200 in an interest-bearing account. That way, you’ll have an emergency fund if a post-warranty problem arises. And if your car doesn’t need pricey repairs, you’ll already have the money for a down payment on your next car. Peace of mind comes at a price. If you opt for an extended warranty, consider these smart-buying tips. Don’t buy under pressure. Dealers often try to sell the convenience of rolling coverage into a new-car loan, but that means you may be paying up front for coverage that you already have with the factory warranty.
Buying an extended warranty when you purchase your vehicle lets you fold the cost of the warranty into the vehicle's financing. Instead of laying out a lot of cash in one lump sum, you can finance and see just a small bump in your monthly car payment. A fair profit margin for dealers is between $200 and $500 over their cost, says Weintraub. Here's another tip: When they're selling extended warranties with new cars, dealers often talk in terms of monthly payments, not the cost of the warranty itself.
Of those who purchased an extended warranty, 86 percent did so at the same time they bought their car. One of the reasons to do so is the convenience of rolling the cost into the car loan. That costs more money in the long run, however, because you have to pay interest on the warranty’s fee. Peace of mind comes at a price. If you opt for an extended warranty, consider these smart-buying tips. Don’t buy under pressure. Dealers often try to sell the convenience of rolling coverage into a new-car loan, but that means you may be paying up front for coverage that you already have with the factory warranty.
An auto warranty is an agreement between the owner of the vehicle and a warranty company. The warranty company agrees to pay for repairs, identified in advance, during the specified warranty period. A warranty period is generally based on car mileage; anywhere from one thousand to several tens of thousands of miles. The longer the coverage, the higher the price of the auto warranty. Warranties are often purchased in lump sum amounts, but certain companies also offer monthly payment plans. Auto warranties are generally considered a wise purchase, since the cost of car repairs can easily exceed thousands of dollars.
The sales pitch for an extended warranty on a car purchase is often a compelling one. You plan on keeping the car for a while, says the Finance and Insurance (F&I) manager. A fair profit margin for dealers is between $200 and $500 over their cost, says Weintraub. Here's another tip: When they're selling extended warranties with new cars, dealers often talk in terms of monthly payments, not the cost of the warranty itself.
In general, the average extended car warranty cost ranges from $350-$700 per year, but every person and policy is different. When your car needs repairs and you don’t have coverage, the mechanic will require payment in full. Do you have $2,700 laying around? There are numerous factors that contribute to an extended car warranty cost. Our policies contain what we call “moving parts.” These “moving parts” are determining factors such as age of vehicle, driving habits, vehicle mileage, and much more.
Even the best vehicles break down at some point. And if your car's warranty expires, you are going to pay for the repairs out-of-pocket. With an Endurance protection plan, commonly referred to as an extended warranty, we pay for your auto repairs and you get to choose the shop, mechanic, or dealership that will repair your car. Remember, insurance only covers you if you are in an accident. Endurance will protect you when the car breaks down. 
At this point, you can either take the lowest offer, or venture into more advanced negotiations. Oren Weintraub, owner of Authority Auto, a car concierge company, has found that the most effective negotiating method is to get a good estimate of the dealer's cost of the warranty and then offer to pay $100-$200 over that. A fair profit margin for dealers is between $200 and $500 over their cost, says Weintraub. Here's another tip: When they're selling extended warranties with new cars, dealers often talk in terms of monthly payments, not the cost of the warranty itself.