Dopamine (contracit frae 3,4-dihydroxyphenethylamine) is a hormone an neurotransmitter o the catecholamine an phenethylamine faimilies that plays a nummer o important roles in the human brain an body. 
L-DOPA, the metabolic precursor of dopamine, does reach the brain and is the most widely used treatment for Parkinson's disease. Dopaminergic stimulants can be addictive in high doses, but some are used at lower doses to treat ADHD. In the opposite direction, drugs that increase the effects of dopamine, such as cocaine or amphetamine, produce heightened levels of activity, including at the highest levels psychomotor agitation and stereotyped movements. The second important effect of dopamine is as a teaching signal.
Dopamine is a neurotransmitter. Many different kinds of animals and humans use it to transmit information. It is used when the brain sends signals to the muscles in the body to make them move. It can make a person feel good. Dopamine is an important chemical found in the brain. If the brain does not make enough dopamine, it causes an illness called Parkinson's disease.
Dopamine is a neurotransmitter that plays many important roles in the human brain and body. If you have ADHD, scientists think that you got it from one of your parent's genes. Typically, a number of genes are involved. Many affect the dopamine neurotransmission. It is used when the brain sends signals to the muscles in the body to make them move. It can make a person feel good. Dopamine is an important chemical found in the brain. If the brain does not make enough dopamine, it causes an illness called Parkinson's disease.
By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. Dopamine is a neurotransmitter. It is a chemical messenger that helps in the transmission of signals in the brain and other vital areas. Dopamine is found in humans as well as animals, including both vertebrates and invertebrates. Dopamine is also used as medication. It acts on the sympathetic nervous system. Application of dopamine leads to increased heart rate and blood pressure. Dopamine cannot cross the blood-brain barrier, so dopamine given as a drug does not directly affect the central
Its name derives from its chemical structure: it is an amine formed by removing a carboxyl group from a molecule of L-DOPA. In the brain, dopamine functions as a neurotransmitter —a chemical released by nerve cells to send signals to other nerve cells. In the opposite direction, drugs that increase the effects of dopamine, such as cocaine or amphetamine, produce heightened levels of activity, including at the highest levels psychomotor agitation and stereotyped movements. The second important effect of dopamine is as a teaching signal.
Dopamine itself is used as precursor in the synthesis of the neurotransmitter norepinephrine and the hormone epinephrine. Dopamine is converted into norepinephrine by the enzyme dopamine β-hydroxylase (DBH), with O 2 and L-ascorbic acid as cofactors. In the opposite direction, drugs that increase the effects of dopamine, such as cocaine or amphetamine, produce heightened levels of activity, including at the highest levels psychomotor agitation and stereotyped movements. The second important effect of dopamine is as a teaching signal.
A dopamine agonist is a compound that activates dopamine receptors in the absence of that receptor's physiological ligand, the neurotransmitter dopamine. Dopamine agonists activate signaling pathways through the dopamine receptor and trimeric G-proteins, ultimately leading to changes in gene transcription. 
a naturally occurring sympathetic nervous system neurotransmitter that is the precursor of norepinephrine. It is produced in the substantia nigra and transmitted to the putamen and caudate nucleus. It has an inhibitory effect on movement. A depletion of dopamine produces the symptoms of rigidity, tremors, and bradykinesia that are characteristic of Parkinson's disease. It is available as an intravenously injectable drug. An intermediate in tyrosine metabolism and precursor of norepinephrine and epinephrine; neurotransmitter is the peripheral and central nervous systems; depletion of dopamine produces Parkinson disease.
Dopamine is a naturally occurring neurotransmitting chemical and hormone in the human body. In its pharmaceutical preparation, it is used to increase heart rate and blood pressure. Dopamine is produced in several areas of the brain, and its presence activates five different types of receptors in nerve cells.