Gesso is made from ground marble dust. Some acrylic painters besides using it for canvas surface prep will mix it with their acrylic paints. It has a sort of chalky effect and makes the painting a bit out of focus. If you have a canvas that has gesso on it, you will see it labeled either portrait or regular canvas. Gesso is a thick white pigment designed to cover untreated and unprimed canvas. The gesso has two purposes. The first is to cover the unprimed canvas so that the paint you apply does not bleed through the canvas.
Gesso is one of those words that seems to stop beginners in their tracks. It leaves many wondering how to use with acrylics or if you even need to use it in an acrylic painting. Historically, it is for oil painting and was traditionally used to prepare or prime a surface so oil paint would adhere to it. Gesso is the same as a primer, as in ‘pre-primed canvas.’. But here’s a pro tip for painting with acrylics and gesso: you can also add other paint colors to your gesso to give you a toned surface to work onto. So grab your paints, you’re ready to go! You can also have a look at how I apply acrylic gesso to a canvas.
Step right up-this page will tell you all about the glories of gesso and how to use it. Gesso is an important art supply to get your canvas ready for painting. You can buy gesso readymade from any art supply shop. Gesso is very similar to white acrylic paint, only thinner. It dries hard, making the surface more stiff. Gesso prepares (or primes) the surface for painting, making the surface slightly textured and ready to accept acrylic paint. Without gesso, the paint would soak into the weave of the canvas. The word gesso is a noun, but many artists also use it as a verb. For example: You need to gesso your canvas before you paint.. The beauty of gesso is that you can apply it to nearly any surface, and then you can paint on that surface with acrylic paint
Gesso is the same as a primer, as in ‘pre-primed canvas’. It is made from a combination of paint pigment, chalk and binder. Traditional Oil ‘ glue gesso ’ was made with an animal glue binder, usually rabbit-skin glue, chalk, and white pigment, usually Titanium white. Modern acrylic gesso is a combination of calcium carbonate (chalk) with an acrylic polymer medium (binder), a pigment (titanium white) and other chemicals that ensure flexibility, and ensure long archival life.
Gesso (. [ˈdʒɛsso] ;  chalk , from the Latin: gypsum, from Greek: γύψος) is a white paint mixture consisting of a binder mixed with chalk, gypsum, pigment, or any combination of these. For priming flexible canvas, an emulsion of gesso and linseed oil, also called half-chalk ground, is used. In geology, the Italian gesso corresponds to the English gypsum, as it is a calcium sulfate mineral (CaSO 4 ·2H 2 O).
A bit of background on the stuff: Gesso (jeh-so) is actually the Greek word for “ground chalk.” (gypsum). Acrylic gesso is a mixture of different materials (latex/calcium carbonate/pigment/etc) usually sold in a premixed form and is used to prime/prep surfaces for acrylic and oil painting. (However, please keep in mind that it is NOT a sealant. 
Artists put it on canvas, wood, or other surfaces before creating a painting with oil paint or acrylics. Gesso makes the surface a little stiffer. It prevents paint from soaking into the support (canvas, paper, wood, etc.), and it gives the surface a little more texture (called tooth), so the paint sticks better. Today, gesso comes in many colors. White is still the most popular, but black and colors are also widely used for art journaling and other art. It's useful for mixed media work as well as fine art paintings. For example, I almost always cover a cigar box with gesso before painting it when I make an art shrine.
Definition of GESSO. 1. : plaster of paris or gypsum prepared with glue for use in painting or making bas-reliefs. 2. : a paste prepared by mixing whiting with size or glue and spread upon a surface to fit it for painting or gilding. — ges·soed \-(ˌ)sōd\ adjective. See gesso defined for kids. 
Traditional gesso [edit].  Gesso , also known glue gesso or Italian gesso is a traditional mix of an animal glue binder (usually rabbit-skin glue), chalk, and white pigment, used to coat rigid surfaces such as wooden painting panels as an absorbent primer coat substrate for painting. For priming flexible canvas, an emulsion of gesso and linseed oil, also called half-chalk ground, is used. In geology, the Italian gesso corresponds to the English gypsum, as it is a calcium sulfate mineral (CaSO 4 ·2H 2 O).