The lineage described in the Raghuvamsha mention Dilīpa as the father of Raghu. According to most of the Puranas, as well as Kalidasa, Raghu was succeeded by his son Aja, who was the father of Dasharatha, the father of Rama, Lakshmana, Bharata and Shatrughna. According to the Raghuvamsha, he was born to king Dilīpa and his queen Sudakshina. His name in Sanskrit means the fast one, deriving from Raghu's chariot-driving abilities. So celebrated were the exploits of Raghu, that his dynasty itself came to be known as the Raghuvamsha or the Raghukula after him.
Meaning & History. Means swift in Sanskrit. This is the name of a heroic king in Hindu epics, the great-grandfather of Rama. It is also mentioned as the name of a son of Buddha in Buddhist texts.
The baby boy name Raghu comes from the Indian word which means, name of lord vishnu.. Unknown word which means, flash of light.. Sanskrit word which means, Fast, Lord Ram, Avatar of Lord Vishnu.. People with this name tend to be natural leaders, self-sufficient, and ambitious. They generally want to make their own decisions in life and are not afraid to take charge or manage a situation. It is important for them to avoid extremes of bossiness or shyness. They tend to be too impulsive.
Raghu is best known today as the great-grandfather of Rama. There are indications that in the classical period, Raghu was a heroic personality of far greater importance than what one would imagine today. According to the Raghuvamsha, he was born to king Dilīpa and his queen Sudakshina. His name in Sanskrit means the fast one, deriving from Raghu's chariot-driving abilities. So celebrated were the exploits of Raghu, that his dynasty itself came to be known as the Raghuvamsha or the Raghukula after him.
It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ra-ghu. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 boys given the name. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Raghu Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Raghu has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Raghu to other names. Secondary names are often patronyms, names derived from the father, grandfather or other paternal ancestor, village names, occupation names, or names of gods. Hindu given names are from Sanskrit. Given names derive from a number of sources including religion, nature, family names, and sanskrit vocabulary words.
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Raghu in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Raghu in Nautical Flags page. Secondary names are often patronyms, names derived from the father, grandfather or other paternal ancestor, village names, occupation names, or names of gods. Hindu given names are from Sanskrit. Given names derive from a number of sources including religion, nature, family names, and sanskrit vocabulary words.
[ 2 syll. rag-hu, ra-ghu ] The baby boy name Raghu is pronounced as Raa-G- UW - †. Raghu is used predominantly in the Indian language and its origin is Sanskrit. The name means Sun God. Raghu is irregularly used as a baby boy name. It is not listed in the top 1000. 
Raghu was a ruler of the mythological Ikshvaku dynasty. According to the Raghuvamsha, he was born to king Dilīpa and his queen Sudakshina. His name in Sanskrit means the fast one, deriving from Raghu's chariot-driving abilities. So celebrated were the exploits of Raghu, that his dynasty itself came to be known as the Raghuvamsha or the Raghukula after him.
Name Raghu generally means Family of lord Rama or An ancient king of Avadh, is of Indian origin, Name Raghu is a Masculine (or Boy) name. Person with name Raghu are mainly Hindu by religion. Name Raghu belongs to rashi Tula (Libra) and Nakshatra (stars) Hastha. Find qualities of Librans (Tula) or Find Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Raghu or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday or Find compatibility of Tula (Libra) with other zodiac signs.