A tributary. is a smaller stream or river that joins a larger stream or main river. A watershed boundary, also called a drainage divide, marks the outer-most limit of a watershed. A watershed is a tract of land drained by a river and its tributaries. Anything that affects a watershed may eventually impact its tributaries and river as well as the water body at the mouth of the river. The. river mouth. is the place where a river flows into a larger body of water, such as another river, a lake, or an ocean. Upstream. is in the direction of or nearer to the source of a river.
A stream is any body of running water that occupies a channel: it can even be underground in a cave or underneath a glacier. A river is a large surface stream, but other than that there isn't a clear boundary between a stream and a river. Streams smaller than rivers, roughly in order of size, may be called branches or forks, creeks, brooks, runnels and rivulets. The very smallest kind of stream, just a trickle, is a rill. A river that meets the sea or a large lake may form a delta at its mouth: a triangle-shaped area of sediment with distributaries flowing across it. The area of water around a river mouth where seawater mixes with freshwater is called an estuary. The land around a stream is a valley.
Rivers exchange water, materials, energy, and nutrients, in a reciprocal manner with the surrounding environment. River water quality, sediment characteristics, and biological communities, all reflect characteristics of the upstream, and even the downstream environment. Maintaining position in the face of flow can be energetically costly, but provides access to a conveyer belt-like food-delivery system. Stream and river organisms reflect their localized niche, and surrounding landscape both upstream and downstream.
) uses the term streamflow to refer to the amount of water flowing in a river. Although USGS usually uses the term stream when discussing flowing water bodies, in these pages we'll use rivers more often, since that is probably what you are more familiar with. 
1,118,133 Contributions. There are three kinds of answers: ones that are mostly right, ones that are mostly wrong, and those that once were right but now are wrong. A shallow area may be called a ford (the verb to ford is to cross at a shallow point)
Every river is part of a larger system-a watershed, which is the land drained by a river and its tributaries. Rivers are large natural streams of water flowing in channels and emptying into larger bodies of water. This diagram shows some common characteristics of a river system. The. river mouth. is the place where a river flows into a larger body of water, such as another river, a lake, or an ocean. Upstream. is in the direction of or nearer to the source of a river.
The rock particles and dissolved ions carried by the stream are the called the stream's load. Stream load is divided into three categories. 1  Suspended Load-particles that are carried along with the water in the main part of the streams. A stream is a body of water that carries rock particles and dissolved ions and flows down slope along a clearly defined path, called a channel. Thus, streams may vary in width from a few centimeters to several tens of kilometers. Streams are important for several reasons:
Changing Stream Conditions •Streams can be “gaining streams” along one portion of their length and “losing streams” along another portion, depending upon their relationship to the water table at those points. The beds of many streams are covered by silt and have a low permeability. •A rainfall event, flood condition, or man-made discharge can cause the surface of a stream to rise above the elevation of the water table and force water in the stream into the groundwater system.•An active water supply well can locally lower the water table and attract the stream water
The ecosystem of a river is the river viewed as a system operating in its natural environment, and includes biotic (living) interactions amongst plants, animals and micro-organisms, as well as abiotic (nonliving) physical and chemical interactions. River ecosystems are prime examples of lotic ecosystems. Large rivers have comparatively more species than small streams. Many relate this pattern to the greater area and volume of larger systems, as well as an increase in habitat diversity. Some systems, however, show a poor fit between system size and species richness.
An estuary is a partially enclosed body of water where fresh water from streams and rivers mixes with salt water from the ocean. Some river mouths are estuaries. For example, the tidal portion of the Hudson River in New York is an estuary. Overview. There are hundreds of thousands of creeks, streams and rivers in the Chesapeake Bay watershed. These tributaries send fresh water into the Bay and offer vital habitat to aquatic plants and animals. These tributaries also provide people with public access points where they can fish, boat and swim.