More. Netizen is a Windows 8 app that brings the voting record of your congressional representative to your finger tips, directly from your Windows 8 device. Simply select the Member of Congress you want to follow and flick through their voting record. At Netizen, we believe in harnessing the power of the Net to make our democratic processes more efficient. Together we can make a difference! Get the app. Get the app. Get the app. To use this app on your PC, upgrade to Windows 10. To use this app
Netizen. The term Netizen is a portmanteau of the English words Internet and citizen. It is defined as an entity or person actively involved in online communities and a user of the Internet, especially an avid one. The term can also imply an interest in improving the Internet, especially in regard to open access and free speech.
netizen. Online Any person who communicates on the Internet and belongs to the global electronic village; an Internet citizen, who uses networked resources, which connotes civic responsibility and participation. See Digerati, Internet. 
Slang term derived from the combination of the words Internet and citizen.. The term netizen is used to describe people who use the Internet to participate in or contribute to an Internet group or society. The word may also be used to describe an individual who spends a lot of time on the net.
Full Definition of NETIZEN. : an active participant in the online community of the Internet. See netizen defined for English-language learners. See netizen defined for kids. 
Netizen. 358 pages on this wiki. Netizen (네티즌) is a Konglish term for an internet user, often referring to a member of a group on the internet devoted to a specific purpose that gathers on a club or cafe online. It comes from the words Internet + Citizen.
Part of the Internet acronyms and lingo glossary: The word netizen seems to have two similar meanings. 1  A citizen who uses the Internet as a way of participating in political society (for example, exchanging views, providing information, and voting). 2  An Internet user who is trying to contribute to the Internet's use and growth. 
Just as a  citizen  is a member of a country, a netizen is a member of the internet. However, this term is overhyped and inaccurate Web 2.0 self-love for the following reasons: - Citizens have legal rights regarding free expression and protection against illegal harassment and discrimination. Netizens do not. You are a Netizen if you contribute to the online community in a positive fashion, allowing the community to grow. Tom is the epitomy of a Netizen, he spends all his free time in those tech support forums answering people's questions about computers.
nProtect Netizen v5.5 is a software program developed by INCA Internet Co. Relative to the overall usage of users who have this installed on their PCs, most are running Windows 7 (SP1) and Windows 8. While about 82% of users of nProtect Netizen come from Korea, it is also popular in the United States and Canada. 