On the geologic time scale, the Holocene epoch starts at the end of the last glacial period of the current ice age (around 10,000 BC) and continues to the present. The beginning of Mesolithic is usually considered to correspond to the beginning of the Holocene epoch. The geologic time scale covers the extent of the existence of Earth, from about 4600 million years ago to the present day. It is marked by Global Boundary Stratotype Sections and Points.
The earth is the third planet from the sun. To most people the period of rotation of the earth is 24 hours, but the actual value is 23 hours 56 minutes and 4 seconds. This happens because a solar day is longer than a sidereal day. While the earth rotates, it also moves around the sun in the interval from one day to another
Click here to download. Precambrian time covers the vast bulk of the Earth's history, starting with the planet's creation about 4.5 billion years ago and ending with the emergence of complex, multicelled life-forms almost four billion years later. 
Hadean time (4.6 to 4 billion years ago)* is not a geological period as such. No rocks on the Earth are this old, except for meteorites. During Hadean time, the Solar System was forming, probably within a large cloud of gas and dust around the sun, called an accretion disc. 
An orbit is the time it takes for a planet or other satellite to go around the sun and end up in the same place it started. The closer a planet is to the sun, the shorter the time to complete one revolution is. Mercury, for example, has an orbital period of 88 days while it takes Jupiter about 11.86 years. The period of the Earth's orbit is usually thought to be 365 days as calendars show. However when averaged it is actually about 365.25 days, which requires an extra day on the calendar every four years (causing a leap year). Contradictions within orbit times are probably caused by the ages of the sources. 
The sidereal period of the Moon is the time needed for it to return to the same position against the background of stars. The Moon appears to move completely around the celestial sphere once in about 27.3 days as observed from the Earth. This is called a sidereal month. 
The geological time scale (GTS) is a system of chronological measurement that relates stratigraphy to time, and is used by geologists, paleontologists, and other Earth scientists to describe the timing and relationships between events that have occurred throughout Earth’s history. The Hadean eon represents the time before fossil record of life on Earth; its upper boundary is now regarded as 4.0 Ga (billion years ago). Other subdivisions reflect the evolution of life; the Archean and Proterozoic are both eons, the Palaeozoic, Mesozoic and Cenozoic are eras of the Phanerozoic eon.
Which is why the period of rotation is not 24 hours. The earth spins around its axis. This spinning makes the sun appear to move from east to west across the sky. It takes 23 hours 56 minutes and 4 seconds for the earth to make a complete rotation about its axis. To most people the period of rotation of the earth is 24 hours, but the actual value is 23 hours 56 minutes and 4 seconds. This happens because a solar day is longer than a sidereal day. While the earth rotates, it also moves around the sun in the interval from one day to another
New Geological Period. In March 2004, geologists added a new time period to Earth's chronology—the Ediacaran Period. The Ediacaran Period lasted about 50 million years, from 600 million years ago to about 542 million years ago. It was the last period of the Precambrian's Neoproterozoic Era. Multicelled organisms first appeared during this time. This period is the first new one added in 120 years