Clinical research associates are part of the wider U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS, www.bls.gov) category of clinical lab technologists and technicians; the employment outlook for this field is average in comparison to all career fields, with employment expected to grow 22% from 2012-2022. Clinical research associates work as part of a team and need to have good communication and interpersonal skills. Because they are dealing with medical trials and experiments, good attention to detail and precision will help clinical research associates to be successful.
Research what it takes to become a clinical research associate. Learn about the educational and certification requirements, job duties and salary information to find out if this is the career for you. Schools offering Clinical Laboratory Science degrees can also be found in these popular choices. As a clinical research associate, you would work with a team to design and implement research trials to test the effectiveness of proposed medicines on humans.
If you want to become a clinical research associate, you need to begin by first determining if this career path is right for you. Skills Needed to Become a Clinical Research Associate. In order to become an effective clinical research associate, you need to acquire a certain set of skills. Being proficient in this skill set may allow you to move into positions of more responsibility and higher pay. These skills include:
Educational Requirements. While the credentials needed to become a clinical research associate vary by place of employment and with the demands of specific positions, you'll likely need at least a bachelor's degree in a biomedical-related field like medical technology or life science. Clinical research associates work as part of a team and need to have good communication and interpersonal skills. Because they are dealing with medical trials and experiments, good attention to detail and precision will help clinical research associates to be successful.
The main function of a Clinical Research Associate is to monitor clinical trials. The CRA may work directly with the sponsor company of a clinical trial, as an independent freelancer or for a Contract Research Organization (CRO). CNNMoney listed Clinical Research Associate at #4 on their list of the Best Jobs in America in 2012, with a median salary of $90,700. The Association of Clinical Research Professionals (ACRP) provides a certification for CRAs, specific to the job function performed.
A Clinical Research Associate (CRA), also called a clinical monitor or trial monitor, is a health-care professional who performs many activities related to medical research, particularly clinical trials. CNNMoney listed Clinical Research Associate at #4 on their list of the Best Jobs in America in 2012, with a median salary of $90,700. The Association of Clinical Research Professionals (ACRP) provides a certification for CRAs, specific to the job function performed.
How to become a Clinical Research Associate. Author:Marten Comment(s):Leave a Comment. Categories: Become a Clinical Research Associate, Clinical Research Associate, CRA. In a world where knowledge is a major player in daily life, being a clinical research associate or CRA can be advantageous. Another good opportunity to gain know-how in clinical research is by becoming a research intern. Although this position is often unpaid it will give you some background and experience for your resume. Image courtesy of adamr at FreeDigitalPhotos.net.
To become a clinical research associate and be successful in this job, you also need to be comfortable with the prospect of occasional travel for work. Some jobs require more travel than others, so if this is not something that appeals to you, simply try to find positions that require little or no out-of-town trips. Ad. If you want to become a clinical research associate, you should be flexible enough to adjust to a changing work environment. The number of people that you may be working with on any given day is likely to fluctuate, so having an even temperament is a desirable quality.
One of the most basic steps to becoming a clinical research associate involves laying out the proper foundation for the future job. In this type of field those who hold degrees that are associated with the nature of work are at an advantage. Another good opportunity to gain know-how in clinical research is by becoming a research intern. Although this position is often unpaid it will give you some background and experience for your resume. Image courtesy of adamr at FreeDigitalPhotos.net.