Non-renewable resources are resources for which there is a limited supply. The supply comes from the Earth itself and, as it typically takes millions of years to develop, is finite. Non-renewable resources can generally be separated into two main categories; fossil fuels and nuclear fuels. Crude oil is a non-renewable resource that builds up in liquid form between the layers of the Earth’s crust. 1  It is retrieved by drilling deep into the ground and pumping the liquid out.
Fossil fuels are non-renewable [non-renewable: A resource that cannot be replaced when it is used up, such as oil, natural gas or coal. ] because they will run out one day. 
Energy comes from many sources, and to describe these sources we use two terms: renewable and non-renewable. Non-renewable energy resources cannot be replaced – once they are used up, they will not be restored (or not for millions of years). Non-renewable energy resources include fossil fuels and nuclear power. 
1 3. 2  Oil Is A Nonrenewable 4 Resource 3Oil is a nonrenewable resource because it takes millions of years to form. 3  Same with natural gas, coal and fossil fuels. 4  natural gas petroleum coal These are all fossil fuels. 1 Oil is not a renewable resource becauseonce you have used it, it never comes back. nonrenewable resource renewable resource. 2  3. 3  Oil Is A Nonrenewable 4 Resource 3Oil is a nonrenewable resource because it takes millions of years to form. 4  Same with natural gas, coal and
Coal, produced over millions of years, is a finite and non-renewable resource on a human time scale. A non-renewable resource (also called a finite resource) is a resource that does not renew itself at a sufficient rate for sustainable economic extraction in meaningful human time-frames. An example is carbon-based, organically-derived fuel. The original organic material, with the aid of heat and pressure, becomes a fuel such as oil or gas. Earth minerals and metal ores, fossil fuels (coal, petroleum, natural gas) and groundwater in certain aquifers are all non-renewable resources. 
Confidence votes 8. Because the crude oil is produced (as are all fossil fuels) from the remains of plants and animals over millions of years. To be considered renewable, a resource must be replaceable within a reasonable amount of time (days to years). 
Energy exists freely in nature. Some of them exist infinitely (never run out, called RENEWABLE), the rest have finite amounts (they took millions of years to form, and will run out one day, called NON-RENEWABLE). Non-renewable energy is energy from fossil fuels (coal, crude oil, natural gas) and uranium. Fossil fuels are mainly made up of Carbon. It is believed that fossil fuels were formed over 300 million years ago, when the earth was a lot different in its landscape. Air, water and land pollution are all consequences of using fossil fuels. In the pages that follow, we shall take a look at what each source of non-renewable energy is made of, and how they are used. Note that not all non-renewable energy comes from fossil fuels. There is also uranium, which is not a fossil fuel.
Non-Renewable Energy. Non-renewable fossil fuels (crude oil, natural gas, coal, oil shales and tar sands) currently supply Australia with more than 95 percent of our electrical energy needs. Non-renewable energy is energy produced by burning fossil fuels such as coal. 
1 Oil Is A Nonrenewable 4 Resource 3Oil is a nonrenewable resource because it takes millions of years to form. 2  Same with natural gas, coal and fossil fuels. 3  natural gas petroleum coal These are all fossil fuels. 1 Oil is not a renewable resource becauseonce you have used it, it never comes back. nonrenewable resource renewable resource. 2  3. 3  Oil Is A Nonrenewable 4 Resource 3Oil is a nonrenewable resource because it takes millions of years to form. 4  Same with natural gas, coal and