Brown adipose tissue (BAT) or brown fat is one of two types of fat or adipose tissue (the other being white adipose tissue, or white fat) found in mammals. It is especially abundant in newborns and in hibernating mammals. Its primary function is to generate body heat in animals or newborns that do not shiver. 
The human body contains two types of fat tissue: 1  White fat is important in energy metabolism, heat insulation and mechanical cushioning. 2  Brown fat is found mostly in newborn babies, between the shoulders, and is important for thermogenesis (making heat). Fat tissue is made up of fat cells, which are a unique type of cell. You can think of a fat cell as a tiny plastic bag that holds a drop of fat. White fat cells are large cells that have very little cytoplasm, only 15 percent cell volume, a small nucleus and one large fat droplet that makes up 85 percent of cell volume.
Knowledge center. Brown adipose tissue (BAT) , also known as brown fat, is one of two types of fat humans and other mammals have-the other type is known as white or yellow fat. Human newborns and hibernating mammals have high levels of brown fat. Brown fat's main function is to generate body heat. 
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. Adipose tissue is a type of connective tissue which plays an important role in the functioning of the body. Better known simply as “fat,” this tissue makes up around 15-20% of the body weight of an average person. 
The more technical term for body fat is adipose tissue, with individual cells being called adipocytes (adipo = fat; cyte = cell). In humans, the primary type of fat cell is called white adipose tissue, or WAT, so named because of its color (it’s actually sort of a milky yellow). Body fat is one of the places, along with muscle and liver, that your body stores glucose. Studies of rats, or humans, who have no body fat (the lipodystrophy I mentioned above) show chronic high blood glucose, just like diabetics. This is because muscle tissue has a limit to how much glucose it can store as glycogen.
In humans, adipose tissue is located beneath the skin (subcutaneous fat), around internal organs (visceral fat), in bone marrow (yellow bone marrow), intermuscular (Muscular system) and in the breast tissue. Adipose tissue is found in specific locations, which are referred to as adipose depots. Fat in the lower body, as in thighs and buttocks, is subcutaneous and is not consistently spaced tissue, whereas fat in the abdomen is mostly visceral and semi-fluid. Visceral fat is composed of several adipose depots, including mesenteric, epididymal white adipose tissue (EWAT), and perirenal depots.
Noun. 1. fatty tissue-a kind of body tissue containing stored fat that serves as a source of energy; it also cushions and insulates vital organs; fatty tissue protected them from the severe cold. adipose tissue, fat. animal tissue-the tissue in the bodies of animals. flab-loose or flaccid body fat. 
Visceral fat or abdominal fat (also known as organ fat or intra-abdominal fat) is located inside the abdominal cavity, packed between the organs (stomach, liver, intestines, kidneys, etc.). Visceral fat is different from subcutaneous fat underneath the skin, and intramuscular fat interspersed in skeletal muscles. Fat in the lower body, as in thighs and buttocks, is subcutaneous and is not consistently spaced tissue, whereas fat in the abdomen is mostly visceral and semi-fluid. Visceral fat is composed of several adipose depots, including mesenteric, epididymal white adipose tissue (EWAT), and perirenal depots.
Fatty tissue is a kind of body tissue that is composed almost entirely from adipocytes, or fat cells. This makes it different from muscular tissue, which is composed primarily from amino acids, and bones, which are composed primarily from a combination of various minerals. 
Adipose tissue is one of the main types of connective tissue. In biology, adipose tissue /ˈaedɨˌpoʊs/ ˈædɨˌpoʊs or body fat or just fat is loose connective tissue composed mostly of. adipocytes Fat in the lower body, as in thighs and buttocks, is subcutaneous and is not consistently spaced tissue, whereas fat in the abdomen is mostly visceral and semi-fluid. Visceral fat is composed of several adipose depots, including mesenteric, epididymal white adipose tissue (EWAT), and perirenal depots.