A yearling (or older) boar can service 50 sows in stalls or 35 to 40 pasturing females. The gestation period for your pregnant sow will be approximately 113 days, or as the old saying goes, three months, three weeks, and three days. But there are some important preparations to be made before that magic moment of birth arrives. All in all, though, breeding your own pigs can take you one step closer to true self-sufficiency, provide you with the opportunity to start a worthwhile homestead critter-raising business, and give you a heck of a lot of satisfaction.
*Boys should be at least 4 months old and girls should be at least 2, but they have to be under 6 to start. 2) How old will a guinea pig be when it is to old to breed? ** If they have been breeding since they reached the minimum age then they can do it forever! If not, then they cannot be over 6 months. A sow should weigh a minimum of 400gm, equivalent to about three months of age, before being mated and should preferably be a little older than this.. Male guinea pigs should be about three to four months of age before being allowed to mate. 2)How old will a guinea pig be when it is to old to breed? Breeding after 8 months of age can be fatal for a guinea pig who has not had a previous litter due to dystocia. Basically you want to breed all Guinea Pigs between 4-8months of age then retire them. 3)Can the male a female be exactly the same age?
In a purebred herd, use the same sire for the second breeding. Sows can be bred in the post weaning heat if pigs are weaned at 2 weeks of age or older and the sow is not in too thin a condition. Boars should be approximately seven to eight months old before being used in a breeding herd. The boar is considered to be mature at 15 months of age or older. The suggested maximum number of services per boar are listed in Table 1
- have eaten less feed than average to reach a specific weight. 1  A good boar will reach 90 kg live weight before it is 140 days old, have a P2-backfat measurement of 15 mm or less, and require only 2,99 kg of feed or less to gain 1 kg in weight to grow from 30 to 90 kg live weight. 1 Boars usually have a maximum working life of between 18 and 24 months. 2  This means they should be replaced when they are 30 to 36 months old. 3  It is very important to keep record of the boars' use so that infertile ones can be detected and replaced as soon as possible. 4  A low sex drive (libido) can also be a problem.
RE: How old does a farm pig need to be to breed? I have a duroc cross sow that is around 5 months old and about 100 lbs. When will she be old enough to breed? Does she have to weigh a certain amount before I breed her? 
1 A good boar will reach 90 kg live weight before it is 140 days old, have a P2-backfat measurement of 15 mm or less, and require only 2,99 kg of feed or less to gain 1 kg in weight to grow from 30 to 90 kg live weight. 2  Buy boars at least four or five weeks before they are used for the first time. 1 Boars usually have a maximum working life of between 18 and 24 months. 2  This means they should be replaced when they are 30 to 36 months old. 3  It is very important to keep record of the boars' use so that infertile ones can be detected and replaced as soon as possible. 4  A low sex drive (libido) can also be a problem.
You can either browse through the yellow pages for names of pig breeders or visit and get referrals from well-known stores that sell pigs and pig feeds. 3. When breeding pigs, select sows that are at least 9 to 10 months old as this is the ideal age for breeding. For the boars, you can either buy them when they're at least 8 months old if you have a small number of sows then breed them with a larger number as they grow older. This is because breeding pigs doesn't take up to much time and pigs are capable of producing large litters. They have a short gestation period and it normally would only require a few boars or male pigs to mate with many sows or female pigs.
(Both young and old sows should receive a second mating 24 hours after their first.) As for the male partners in a porcine union, an 8- to 12-month-old boar can usually service 12 females in pasture or be handmated (matched individually in a barn) with 24 gilts or sows. All in all, though, breeding your own pigs can take you one step closer to true self-sufficiency, provide you with the opportunity to start a worthwhile homestead critter-raising business, and give you a heck of a lot of satisfaction.
Here is a sounder of sows and pigs on our preserve. Wild hogs will breed year round, but births peak in spring and fall. Gestation is 114 days, and a sow will give birth to anywhere from 1 to a dozen piglets. She can have 2 litters a year. The sow is a superb protectoress of her young. 