It is a professional degree with specializations compared to Bachelors of Social Work (BSW). MSW promotes macro, mezzo and micro aspects of professional social work practice, wherein BSW focuses' more on direct social work practice's in community, hospitals and other fields of social services. The MSW is considered a terminal practice degree in the field of social work. The DSW (Doctorate of Social Work) and Ph.D in social work are the final degrees offered in the field of social work. There is no inherent difference between the DSW and the PhD; there are few DSW programs available in the United States.
The Master of Social Work (MSW) is a master's degree in the field of social work. The MSW is considered a terminal practice degree in the field of social work. The DSW (Doctorate of Social Work) and Ph.D in social work are the final degrees offered in the field of social work. There is no inherent difference between the DSW and the PhD; there are few DSW programs available in the United States.
A BSW degree is a Bachelors in Social Work (BSW). That can be followed by a Masters in Social Work (MSW). Bsw just means a baccalaureate degree in social work. An lcsw is a licensed clinical social worker. You have to have a masters degree and sit for an exam to be called a lcsw.
A bachelor's degree in social work is the minimum education required to become an entry-level social worker. Bachelor's degrees usually take four years to complete and require both general education courses and courses specific to social work. 
BSW is a Bachelor's in Social Work.     A CAS is a Certificate of Advanced Study. It usually refers to a graduate school degree above the Masters level. It is not to b … e confused with a CERT degree. Bsw just means a baccalaureate degree in social work. An lcsw is a licensed clinical social worker. You have to have a masters degree and sit for an exam to be called a lcsw.
Bachelor’s Degree in Social Work-BSW: “A bachelor’s degree in social work (BSW) degree is the most common minimum requirement to qualify for a job as a social worker; however, majors in psychology, sociology, and related fields may qualify for some entry-level jobs, especially in small community agencies. Accredited BSW programs require a minimum of 400 hours of supervised field experience.”. Master’s Degree in Social Work-MSW: “A master’s degree in social work (MSW) is typically required for positions in health settings and is required for clinical work as well.
The BSW degree is probably the strongest bachelor's level human service degree you can get. Recognizing what is unique and special about the BSW degree can be of great value in helping you market yourself in today's difficult job market. The BSW degree is more marketable in rural settings than in urban ones, because there is less competition. There are many social service directors in North Carolina, for example, who say they would hire a BSW almost sight unseen, as they simply can't find BSWs.
A Bachelor’s degree in social work is required for admission. Currently, this program is only available to residents of the following states: Florida, Georgia, Alabama, North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, and Wyoming. Social workers need to have at least a Bachelor’s degree (BSW). More specialized jobs require a Master’s in Social Work degree (MSW).
Graduate social work degrees include the Masters in Social Work (MSW) and Doctorate of Social Work (DSW). An MSW prepares graduates for more advanced social work positions; the degree is required for social workers who provide therapy in clinical settings. One way to begin a social work career is by earning a Bachelor of Social Work and Master of Social Work degree from a college or university that is accredited by the Council on Social Work Education. The Bachelor of Social Work (BSW) is the undergraduate social work degree.