Posted by leoburd on. The VoIP Twilio module makes it possible for the VoIP Drupal platform to make and receive text and voice calls via the Twilio Cloud Communications service (http://www.twilio.com/). In particular, the VoIP Twilio module enables the creation of Drupal sites that: * Are accessible via SMS and regular phone calls. * Can use a combination of 8 voices (4 male, 4 female) in 4 different languages for text to speech generation. Currently, voiptwilio.module is distributed as part of the VoIP Drupal module (http://drupal.org/project/voipdrupal). The VoIP Twilio module has been originally developed by Leo Burd under the sponsorship of the MIT Center for Civic Media (http://civic.mit.edu).
Twilio is powering the future of business communications, enabling developers to embed voice, VoIP, and messaging into applications. They virtualize all infrastructure needed in a cloud-based, global environment, exposing it through the Twilio communications API platform. Applications are simple to build and scalable. Configure Your Application to Use Twilio Libraries. You can configure your application to use the Twilio library for PHP in two ways: Download the Twilio library for PHP from GitHub (https://github.com/twilio/twilio-php) and add the Services directory to your application.
Company Overview. Twilio, Inc. provides business communications solutions that enable phones, VoIP, and messaging to be embedded into Web, desktop, and mobile software. The company exposes a cloud application programming interface that developers can interact with to build intelligent and complex communications systems. 
The Twilio API is a RESTful API that provides voice and SMS functionality for applications. Client libraries are available in multiple languages; for a list, see Twilio API Libraries. Key aspects of the Twilio API are Twilio verbs and Twilio Markup Language (TwiML). Configure Your Application to Use Twilio Libraries. You can configure your application to use the Twilio library for PHP in two ways: Download the Twilio library for PHP from GitHub (https://github.com/twilio/twilio-php) and add the Services directory to your application.
A more agile communications architecture. Twilio's SIP support makes it easy to connect the flexibility and scalability of the cloud to your existing communications infrastructure. Use the languages you want to build the communications applications you need. Pay only for what you use, when you use it. Use Twilio's SIP support to add and integrate new applications to your existing communications stack. Use Twilio to create intelligent applications that bring together calls across multiple SIP environments.
Twilio Voice allows your applications to make and receive phone calls. Twilio SMS enables your application to send and receive text messages. Twilio Client allows you to make VoIP calls from any phone, tablet, or browser and supports WebRTC. When you're ready to get a Twilio account, sign up at Try Twilio. You can start with a free account, and upgrade your account later. When you sign up for a Twilio account, you'll receive an account ID and an authentication token.
Twilio is a cloud communications (IaaS) company based in San Francisco, California. Twilio allows software developers to programmatically make and receive phone calls and send and receive text messages using its web service APIs. Twilio's services are accessed over HTTP and are billed based on usage. As of February 2015, more than 560,000 developers use the service. Twilio was founded in 2007 by Jeff Lawson, Evan Cooke, and John Wolthuis and was originally based in both Seattle, Washington, and San Francisco, California.
Twilio is powering the future of business communications, enabling developers to embed voice, VoIP, and messaging into applications. They virtualize all infrastructure needed in a cloud-based, global environment, exposing it through the Twilio communications API platform. When you're ready to get a Twilio account, sign up at Try Twilio. You can start with a free account, and upgrade your account later. When you sign up for a Twilio account, you'll receive an account ID and an authentication token.