Comparing diet with the cases of diabetes, Pan's group found that people who increased their consumption of red meat by 0.5 servings per day during a four-year period were 48 percent more likely to develop type 2 diabetes, compared with people who ate less red meat.
The researchers found that increasing the consumption of red meat can increase the risk of developing type 2 diabetes by 48 percent.
The two main types of diabetes are type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes. A third type, gestational diabetes, develops only during pregnancy. Other types of diabetes are caused by defects in specific genes, diseases of the pancreas, certain drugs or chemicals, infections, and other conditions.
1 Eating a half serving more a day of red meat increases the risk of diabetes, study shows. 2  Decreasing intake of red meat lowered risk over time. 3  Experts are still looking at what factors in red meat may cause this increased risk.
1 Type 1 diabetes is caused by a lack of insulin due to the destruction of insulin-producing beta cells. 2  In type 1 diabetes—an autoimmune disease—the body’s immune system attacks and destroys the
MONDAY, June 17 (HealthDay News) -- People who eat a lot of red meat increase their risk of developing type 2 diabetes, while those who cut down on red meat cut their risk. Those are the findings of a large new study out of Singapore involving 149,000 U.S. men and women.
The meat contains high amounts of an iron that can cause insulin resistance, which may raise the risk of diabetes, he said. The food is also high in saturated fat and cholesterol and processed forms have nitrates and high levels of sodium that may also increase the danger of developing the disease, he said.
Sugary soda and other sweet treats are likely not the only foods to blame for the surge in diabetes across the U.S. New research out of Harvard University supports the theory that regular red meat consumption increases the risk of getting type 2 diabetes.
And diabetes is not the only reason to switch to lighter forms of protein. People who ate 113 grams (four ounces) of red meat a day are more likely to die from any cause over 10 years, according to a 2009 Archives of Internal Medicine study of half of a million people.