It said this included fetuses that doctors expected to be sustained by respirators. The court accepted the conventional medical wisdom that a fetus becomes viable at the start of the last third of a pregnancy, the third trimester, sometime between the 24 th and 28 th week (a pregnancy usually lasts 38 weeks). Because the point of viability varies, the court ruled, it could only be determined case by case and by the woman's own doctor. Even if the fetus is viable, the court said, states could not outlaw an abortion if the woman's life or health was at stake.
As the word is used in United States constitutional law since Roe v. Wade, viability is the potential of the fetus to survive outside the uterus after birth, natural or induced, when supported by up-to-date medicine. With the support of neonatal intensive care units, the limit of viability in the developed world has declined since 50 years ago, but has remained unchanged in the last 12 years. Currently the limit of viability is considered to be around 24 weeks although the incidence of major disabilities remains high at this point.
P robability of survival increases for babies born later in pregnancy: 25 percent in the 23 rd week, 42 percent in the 24 th week, 57 percent in 25 th week. By the 30 th week, when a newborn doesn't require a ventilator to breathe, it has a 90 percent chance of survival. Because the point of viability varies, the court ruled, it could only be determined case by case and by the woman's own doctor. Even if the fetus is viable, the court said, states could not outlaw an abortion if the woman's life or health was at stake.
Fetal viability or foetal viability is the ability of a fetus to survive outside the uterus. With the support of neonatal intensive care units, the limit of viability in the developed world has declined since 50 years ago, but has remained unchanged in the last 12 years. Currently the limit of viability is considered to be around 24 weeks although the incidence of major disabilities remains high at this point.
Doctors now believe a fetus can become viable during the 23 rd week--a week earlier than was thought 24 years ago. Most hospitals will only perform abortions through the 22 nd week of pregnancy. Because the point of viability varies, the court ruled, it could only be determined case by case and by the woman's own doctor. Even if the fetus is viable, the court said, states could not outlaw an abortion if the woman's life or health was at stake.
That transition might occur, for example, at certain milestones in brain development; at viability, the earliest age the fetus can survive outside the mother's womb, which is currently around 20 to 24 weeks; or at the moment of birth. 
The United States Supreme Court stated in Roe v. Wade (1973) that viability (i.e., the interim point at which the fetus becomes ... potentially able to live outside the mother's womb, albeit with artificial aid) is usually placed at about seven months (28 weeks) but may occur earlier, even at 24 weeks.. With the support of neonatal intensive care units, the limit of viability in the developed world has declined since 50 years ago, but has remained unchanged in the last 12 years. Currently the limit of viability is considered to be around 24 weeks although the incidence of major disabilities remains high at this point.
When does a developing child become viable? That is, what is the earliest a child could be born and still have a chance to survive? Fourty years ago doctors put the age of viability at about 30 weeks into pregnancy, or ten weeks premature. Twenty years ago it was 25 weeks. Today it is 20 weeks. Both of the children pictured above were born at 21 weeks and survived.
First is the pregnancy itself viable, meaning is the fetus developing and is there a heart beat, etc. The other more common way to talk about viability is in terms of when the baby can live outside the womb. Report Abuse. The baby can live outside the womb and the baby is considered viable at 21 weeks. EDIT: Okay, another girl that the baby is viable at 24 weeks. Well, at my 21 week u/s I was told that my son was viable. My son was born at 24 wks and 3 days and because of this...he had a better chance of surviving