The pollutants released into the atmosphere cause local air pollution (see Table of Common Pollutants). However, they also cause regional air pollution, as with huge plumes of smoke covering a large area, and acid rain. In some cases, air pollutants contribute to climate change, and greenhouse gases contribute to air pollution: 1  Air pollutants such as ground-level ozone and soot (a portion of particulate matter) contribute directly to global warming, which is linked to climate change.
Another pollutant associated with climate change is sulfur dioxide, a component of smog. Sulfur dioxide and closely related chemicals are known primarily as a cause of acid rain. But they also reflect light when released in the atmosphere, which keeps sunlight out and causes Earth to cool. Smog hanging over cities is the most familiar and obvious form of air pollution. But there are different kinds of pollution—some visible, some invisible—that contribute to global warming. Generally any substance that people introduce into the atmosphere that has damaging effects on living things and the environment is considered air pollution. Carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas, is the main pollutant that is warming Earth
Pollution can affect the atmosphere, more specifically the Ozone layer, because CFC's (chlorofluorocarbons) and other chemicals react with the Ozone (O3) and turn into Chlorin … e monoxide (ClO) and an oxygen molecule (O2) which then starts the deterioration of the Ozone layer. The main effect of carbon pollution (that is, carbon dioxide  emissions) on the atmosphere is to trap heat. Carbon dioxide is a  greenhouse gas which retains infrared radiat … ion (heat) rising from  the earth's surface
Air pollution occurs when the air contains gases, dust, fumes or odor in harmful amounts—aerosols are a subset of air pollution that refers to the tiny particles suspended everywhere in our atmosphere. Small particles suspended in the Earth’s atmosphere (aerosols) include fine aerosols such as pollution and smoke (red) and coarse aerosols such as dust and sea-salt (green). Image shows aerosol levels on April 13, 2001 as seen by a NASA satellite. Source: NASA.
How does pollution get cycled out of the atmosphere? Some types of emissions, such as methane, remain in the atmosphere for years; others, such as carbon dioxide, stay for centuries. In contrast, sulfates can be thought of as sprinters: they stay in the atmosphere only a few days to weeks before falling or raining out. To learn more about the impacts of pollution, scientists compare the atmosphere in relatively unpolluted places, like remote islands in the Pacific Ocean or Antarctica, with the air over industrialized regions.
Air pollution is caused by any undesirable substance, which enters the atmosphere. Air pollution is a major problem in modern society. Even though air pollution is usually a greater problem in cities, pollutants contaminate air everywhere. Damage to the ozone layer is primarily caused by the use of chloroflurocarbons (CFCs). Ozone is a form of oxygen found in the earth's upper atmosphere. The thin layer of ozone molecules in the atmosphere absorb some of the sun's ultraviolet (UV) rays before it reaches the earth's surface, making life on earth possible.
Some air pollutants cause more global warming. Air pollution includes greenhouse gases. One of these is carbon dioxide, a common part of the exhaust from cars and trucks. Greenhouse gases cause global warming by trapping heat from the Sun in the Earth s atmosphere.
These substances include various gases and tiny particles, or particulates that can harm human health and damage the environment. They may be gases, liquids, or solids. Many pollutants are given off into the air as a result of human behavior. Pollution occurs on different levels: personal, national, and global. Damage to the ozone layer is primarily caused by the use of chloroflurocarbons (CFCs). Ozone is a form of oxygen found in the earth's upper atmosphere. The thin layer of ozone molecules in the atmosphere absorb some of the sun's ultraviolet (UV) rays before it reaches the earth's surface, making life on earth possible.