Most often the threshold potential is a membrane potential value between –40 and –55 mV, but it can vary based upon several factors. A neuron's resting membrane potential (–70 mV) can be altered to either increase or decrease likelihood of reaching threshold via sodium and potassium ions. Threshold tracking allows for the strength of a test stimulus to be adjusted by a computer in order to activate a defined fraction of the maximal nerve or muscle potential.
2. the entrance to a house or building. 3. any point of entering or beginning: the threshold of a new career. 4. Also called limen. the point at which a stimulus is of sufficient intensity to begin to produce an effect: the threshold of consciousness; a low threshold of pain. 
Threshold, or T-pace, running is one of the most productive types of training that distance runners can do. Training at this pace helps runners avoid overtraining and yields more satisfying workouts and better consistency. Remember that the purpose of the workout is to stress lactate-clearance capability, not to overstress that capability. I refer to threshold training as comfortably hard running. It shouldn’t feel hard, which is the pace of pure interval training.
threshold. the level that must be reached for an effect to be produced, as the degree of intensity of stimulus which just produces a sensation. 1. the level that must be reached for an effect to be produced, as the degree of intensity of stimulus that just produces a sensation. 2. that value at which a stimulus just produces a sensation, is just appreciable, or comes just within the limits of perception.
Comstock/Comstock/Getty Images. The threshold is the strip or wood or metal that runs across the bottom of an entry door frame. A threshold is an important factor in the energy efficiency of a home or building. It also has several additional purposes in the doorway. A threshold can be replaced, or improved, if it does not adequately perform its job. There are additional methods to help block the large amount of air that can slip underneath a door, even with a threshold in position. A popular method to stop the draft is to install a metal door sweep along the bottom of the entry door.
The threshold potential is the critical level to which the membrane potential must be depolarized in order to initiate an action potential. Threshold potentials are necessary in order to regulate and propagate signaling in both the central nervous system (CNS) and the peripheral nervous system (PNS). Threshold tracking allows for the strength of a test stimulus to be adjusted by a computer in order to activate a defined fraction of the maximal nerve or muscle
Weather. The primary purpose of a door threshold is to provide a seal underneath the door, as a protection against heat in the summer and cold in the winter. There are additional methods to help block the large amount of air that can slip underneath a door, even with a threshold in position. A popular method to stop the draft is to install a metal door sweep along the bottom of the entry door.
The artificial neuron receives one or more inputs (representing dendrites) and sums them to produce an output (representing a neuron's axon). Usually the sums of each node are weighted, and the sum is passed through a non-linear function known as an activation function or transfer function. 
the point at which a stimulus is great enough to produce an effect. For example, a pain threshold is the point at which a person becomes aware of pain. Medtalk The point, stage, or degree of intensity at which a particular effect occurs or action is taken. See Therapeutic threshold, Transfusion threshold. 1. the level that must be reached for an effect to be produced, as the degree of intensity of stimulus that just produces a sensation. 2. that value at which a stimulus just produces a sensation, is just appreciable, or comes just within the limits of perception.