Raw eggs keep a lot longer. Interestingly, hard-boiled eggs do not keep nearly as long as raw eggs, which can last three to five weeks in the refrigerator. There is a good reason for this. When a hen lays an egg, it puts a naturally protective coating on the outside of the shell
No Follow. Refrigerate leftover hard-cooked eggs in the shell within two hours of cooking them and they should keep well for over one to one and a half weeks. It's best to place them in a container or plastic bag so they don't absorb refrigerator smells and flavors. 
Header image: CHOW. Hard-boiled eggs last about a week if they are kept in their shells, and should be refrigerated within two hours of cooking, says the USDA Food Safety and Inspection Service. 
4. The number of days deviled eggs or egg salad can be saved in the refrigerator and still be edible. Hard-boiled eggs still in their shells can keep for a week in the fridge, and raw eggs in their shells can stay fresh three to five weeks from the purchase date, even if the sell-by date has passed. (Source: 1.usa.gov/160UJdA).
Raw eggs keep a lot longer. Interestingly, hard-boiled eggs do not keep nearly as long as raw eggs, which can last three to five weeks in the refrigerator. There is a good reason for this. When a hen lays an egg, it puts a naturally protective coating on the outside of the shell. 
You can extend the answer to how long do hard boiled eggs last by storing them in your fridge (refrigerator) immediately after preparation or use. Once prepared, hard boiled eggs should be stored in a tightly closed container in the fridge to keep out moisture and other contaminants. Of course, the question of how long do hard boiled eggs last in the fridge or how long are boiled eggs good for depends on if they were stored properly in the fridge or not.
Confidence votes 172. Hard-boiled eggs are best if used within a week. Do not freeze them. Even with its natural (but easily cracked) calcium-carbonate container, a hard-cooked egg is a perishable food, so it shouldn't be kept at room temperature for more than two hours. If kept in an unbroken shell and in the refrigerator about a week. 
Storing of hard-cooked (boiled) eggs: Refrigeration is necessary for hard boiled eggs if the eggs are not to be consumed within a few hours. It is preferable not to peel your eggs until you are ready to eat or use in your recipe. Hard-cooked eggs in the shell can be refrigerated up to one (1) week. Peeled hard-boiled eggs can be stored in the refrigerator in a bowl of cold water to cover for about 1 week (change the water daily) - or in a sealed container without water (cover the eggs with damp paper towels) for the same length of time. Peeled hard boiled eggs can be stored in the refrigerator in a bowl of cold water to cover for about 1 week (change the water daily). SAFETY NOTE: It is not safe to leave hard boiled eggs (including those in their shells) out at room temperature for long (and especially in hot water).
Hard boiled eggs last about 7 days, but can spoil quickly if not handled properly. Hard boiled eggs are fresh whole eggs that have been boiled for 10 minutes. Chicken eggs are the most common choice for this process. Of course, the question of how long do hard boiled eggs last in the fridge or how long are boiled eggs good for depends on if they were stored properly in the fridge or not.