Ground lime, which has a fine, powdery texture, is the most popular form of lime in the US, according West Virginia University. However, pelletized lime, which comes in the form of small beads, has several advantages. Manually spreading pelletized lime is easy, and won't result in a dusty covering all over your hands and clothes. Pelletized lime also doesn't stick easily to shoes, causing it to be spread everywhere. Avoid liming without testing, or the soil may become too alkaline. Lime can be used year round, but don't use it when grass is covered in frost or wilted. If spring showers are expected, apply pelletized lime and allow the rain to soak it into the soil.
Pelletized Lime vs. Ag Lime. Ag lime, or agricultural lime, is a coarse limestone product best suited for agricultural applications. The name ag lime most often refers to a crushed limestone product that is used to improve acidic soil to a neutral pH.
Pelletized lime raises soil pH as effectively and at essentially the same rate as agricultural lime, which is commonly called ag lime. Ag lime, however, must be applied with a special spreader because of its finer texture, while pelletized lime can be applied with an ordinary garden spreader. Pelletized lime's principal disadvantage in comparison to both ag lime and powdered lime is its cost. Pelletized lime is more expensive than either of the other kinds of lime, so it typically isn't feasible for use in large-scale applications.
Answer: 98G is the highest quality pelletized limestone in the US. 98G is made from finely ground calcitic limestone (98% calcium carbonate-CaCO3), mixed with a binder to produce a pellet. Because the CaCO3 is so pure and so fine you can use 300-400 lbs/A in place of one ton of ag lime. 
Baker’s Premier Pelletized Limestone is mined directly from our quarry, a natural rich dolomitic limestone deposit in the heart of York County, PA. For a healthy, beautiful lawn, the first step is to apply Baker’s Premier Pelletized limestone. It acts fast to correct soil pH and naturally nourish the soil with calcium and magnesium.
Lime is usually added to garden soil when the soil is too acidic to support optimal plant growth. The materials commonly called lime contain calcium, and when calcium is added to the soil, it gradually raises the pH level of the soil, making the soil less acidic and more hospitable to beneficial microorganisms. Pelletized lime's principal disadvantage in comparison to both ag lime and powdered lime is its cost. Pelletized lime is more expensive than either of the other kinds of lime, so it typically isn't feasible for use in large-scale applications.
Pelletized lime is made by grinding agricultural lime, which may be either calcitic or dolomitic, into a fine powder. After the lime is ground, it is granulated, or pelletized, by binding it together using compounds called lignosulfonates. Pelletized lime's principal disadvantage in comparison to both ag lime and powdered lime is its cost. Pelletized lime is more expensive than either of the other kinds of lime, so it typically isn't feasible for use in large-scale applications.
Pelletized Limestone. Pelletized limestone is available in 15kg bags. The product is mainly used for landscaping and gardening. Ask for it at your local gardening center. Pelletized limestone has become an increasingly popular product as it provides 30 percent better coverage than powdered limestone, it reacts in the soil more quickly, and it is easier to spread (less dust and more consistent coverage).
Pelletized Lime. Pelletized limestone, also known as pelletized lime, results from crushing limestone rock into a powder and then pelletizing the material. By undergoing pelletization, the product is easy to handle, while still maintaining the quick-dissolving benefits found in powdered lime. 
Lime is an excellent soil amendment for applications looking to correct an unbalanced pH and promote nutrient absorption. However, not all lime products are made the same, and within this group of products there is one form that consistently stands out as an exceptional solution: pelletized limestone. Ag lime, or agricultural lime, is a coarse limestone product best suited for agricultural applications. The name ag lime most often refers to a crushed limestone product that is used to improve acidic soil to a neutral pH.