Simply put, a representative democracy is a system of government in which all eligible citizens vote on representatives to pass laws for them. A perfect example is the U.S., where we elect a president and members of the Congress. We also elect local and state officials. The Greeks came up with the form of government that we call direct democracy, which is a precursor to representative democracy. In a direct democracy, all eligible citizens vote on every issue. For example, if a direct democracy were considering a tax increase, all the eligible voters would vote that decision.
Normative democratic theory deals with the moral foundations of democracy and democratic institutions. It is distinct from descriptive and explanatory democratic theory. It does not offer in the first instance a scientific study of those societies that are called democratic. 
Democracy [edit]. Democracy is a form of government in which the right to govern or sovereignty is held by the majority of citizens within a country or a state. In political theory, democracy describes a small number of related forms of government and also a political philosophy. Even though there is no universally accepted definition of 'democracy', there are two principles that any definition of democracy includes. Theocracy is a form of government in which a god or deity is recognized as the state's supreme civil ruler, or in a broader sense, a form of government in which a state is governed by immediate divine guidance or by officials who are regarded as divinely guided.
de•moc•ra•cy. 1. government by the people; a form of government in which the supreme power is vested in the people and exercised directly by them or by their elected agents under a free electoral system. 2. a state having such a form of government. 3. a state of society characterized by formal equality of rights and privileges. 4. political or social equality; democratic spirit. 5. the common people, esp. with respect to their political power. 1. (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) government by the people or their elected representatives. 2. (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) a political or social unit governed ultimately by all its members. 3. (Sociology) the practice or spirit of social equality.
Usage Notes: 1  Plural: democracies. 2  When democracy is introduced to a culture, the existing political system is (verb) democratized to become more (adjective) democratic. 3  The spirit of democracy is called democratism. (noun) “[A] form of government that provides all citizens with an equal voice or vote in determining state policy” (OpenStax College 2012). Audio Pronunciation: (de·moc·ra·cy). Download Audio Pronunciation: democracy.mp3.
democracy-the political orientation of those who favor government by the people or by their elected representatives. ideology, political orientation, political theory-an orientation that characterizes the thinking of a group or nation. 1. (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) government by the people or their elected representatives. 2. (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) a political or social unit governed ultimately by all its members. 3. (Sociology) the practice or spirit of social equality.
Definition: An oligarchy is a social system under the political control of a small elite. According to the theory of Robert Michels, social systems become oligarchical because: 1. People generally prefer to let others make decisions for them. 
A monarchy is a form of government in which supreme power is absolutely or nominally lodged with an individual, who is the head of state, often for life or until abdication. The person who heads a monarchy is called a monarch. Theocracy is a form of government in which a god or deity is recognized as the state's supreme civil ruler, or in a broader sense, a form of government in which a state is governed by immediate divine guidance or by officials who are regarded as divinely guided.
1 When democracy is introduced to a culture, the existing political system is (verb) democratized to become more (adjective) democratic. 2  The spirit of democracy is called democratism. (noun) “[A] form of government that provides all citizens with an equal voice or vote in determining state policy” (OpenStax College 2012). Audio Pronunciation: (de·moc·ra·cy). Download Audio Pronunciation: democracy.mp3.