Hatfield is a borough in Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, United States. The population was 3,290 at the time of the 2010 census. Hatfield has a city manager form of government with a mayor and a five-member borough council. The mayor is Robert L. Kaler. The borough is part of the United States House of Representatives Pennsylvania District 8 (represented by Rep. Mike Fitzpatrick).
The burial site of Devil Anse Hatfield. Devil Anse was the legendary leader of the Hatfield clan during the world famous Hatfield-McCoy Feud. The cemetery is on the National Register of Historic Places and features a life-size statue of Devil Anse carved in Italian marble. The Hatfield-McCoy Feud is the most famous feud in American history. It occurred in southern West Virginia and eastern Kentucky. Dozens of books and movies have been made about this world famous conflict.
Hatfield is part of Welwyn Hatfield borough council in the county of Hertfordshire. It is a civil parish and has a town council. It is twinned with the Dutch port town of Zierikzee. Hatfield is part of the Welwyn Hatfield constituency, which includes Welwyn Garden City. Hatfield is 20 miles (32 km) to the north of London. It is 14 miles (23 km) from London Luton Airport and also near to Stansted airport The A1(M) runs through the town and it is close to the M25.
Hatfield and McCoy Feud Sites. The Hatfield-McCoy Feud is the most famous feud in American history. It occurred in southern West Virginia and eastern Kentucky. Dozens of books and movies have been made about this world famous conflict.
Hatfield Borough is located in north-central Montgomery County roughly three miles north of the Lansdale Interchange of the Northeast Extension and about 30 miles north of center city Philadelphia. The Borough is just over 400 acres (0.63 square miles) in area and is completely surrounded by Hatfield Township. 
The town was then called Bishop's Hatfield. Hatfield House is the seat of the Cecil family, the Marquesses of Salisbury. Elizabeth Tudor was confined there for three years in what is now known as The Old Palace in Hatfield Park. Hatfield is 20 miles (32 km) to the north of London. It is 14 miles (23 km) from London Luton Airport and also near to Stansted airport The A1(M) runs through the town and it is close to the M25.
Synopsis. Born in 1839, Devil Anse Hatfield grew up in what is now Logan County, West Virginia. He took a leading role in his family's feud with the McCoys. In 1882, Hatfield's brother was murdered and he had the three McCoys responsible killed. He was indicted for his role in these crimes, but never was tried. 
Hatfield is a town and civil parish in Hertfordshire, England, in the borough of Welwyn Hatfield. It had a population of 29,616 in 2001, and is of Saxon origin. Hatfield House, the home of the Marquess of Salisbury, is the nucleus of the old town. Hatfield is 20 miles (32 km) to the north of London. It is 14 miles (23 km) from London Luton Airport and also near to Stansted airport The A1(M) runs through the town and it is close to the M25.
Welcome ... ...to the unofficial website for Hatfield, Hertfordshire, UK. Hatfield is a small town with a big place in history – not just in Great Britain but around the world. 