The behavioral effects of alcohol are produced through its actions on the central nervous system (CNS) and, in particular, the brain. Synaptic transmission—the process by which neurons in the CNS communicate with one another—is a particular target for alcohol actions that alter behavior. Many small organic molecules serve as neurotransmitters in the brain. For example, amino acids such as glutamate and glycine, which are well known as constituents of proteins, also act as neurotransmitters (Kandel et al.
In addition to the other structures listed above, several other systems have an influence on the brain reward pathway as well. The endocrine and the autonomic nervous systems interact via the hypothalamus, an integral part of the limbic system, and the pituitary (1). These structures modulate the reward pathway. Like other drugs of abuse, stimulants increase dopamine concentrations in the brain reward pathway (1,2,3,4,7). Stimulants such as cocaine, amphetamines, caffeine and nicotine all stimulate the brain reward pathway through slightly different mechanisms and increase dopamine to different extents.
dopamine directly. Rather, it appears that alcohol directly affects the GABA system and the endorphin system. Neurons from the GABA system extend into the reward pathway and when alcohol affects the GABA system these neurons release dopamine into the reward pathway. All things which give us pleasure, from a symphony to food to sex to drugs and alcohol, cause a release of dopamine in the reward pathway as well as triggering a number of other events in the brain including endorphin release and activation of the orbitofrontal region of the prefrontal cortex.
Alcohol also binds directly to the receptors for acetylcholine, serotonin, GABA, and the NMDA receptors for glutamate. Click on the labels in the diagram to the right to see an animation about how alcohol affects a GABA synapse. 
The Serotonin Pathways. Serotonin is another neurotransmitter affected by many drugs of abuse, including cocaine, amphetamines, LSD, and alcohol. Serotonin is made by neurons in the Raphe nuclei. These neurons reach and dump serotonin onto almost the entire brain, as well as the spinal cord.
4.2a Serotonin. Even though increased dopamine in the brain reward system is generally thought to be the final common pathway for the reinforcing properties of drugs, other neurotransmitters such as serotonin are involved in the modulation of both drug self-administration and dopamine levels. Like other drugs of abuse, stimulants increase dopamine concentrations in the brain reward pathway (1,2,3,4,7). Stimulants such as cocaine, amphetamines, caffeine and nicotine all stimulate the brain reward pathway through slightly different mechanisms and increase dopamine to different extents.
The primary neurotransmitter of the reward pathway is dopamine (1,2,3,4). Although drugs of abuse often act through separate mechanisms and on various locations in the brain reward system, they share a final common action in that they increase dopamine levels in the brain reward system. Like other drugs of abuse, stimulants increase dopamine concentrations in the brain reward pathway (1,2,3,4,7). Stimulants such as cocaine, amphetamines, caffeine and nicotine all stimulate the brain reward pathway through slightly different mechanisms and increase dopamine to different extents.
The Dopamine Pathways. Dopamine is the neurotransmitter used by the reward pathway (also called the mesolimbic pathway, which is closely linked with the mesocortical pathway). But there are two other important pathways in the brain that use dopamine: the nigrostriatal pathway and the tuberoinfundibular pathway. Generally, drugs that affect dopamine levels affect all three of these pathways. Serotonin is another neurotransmitter affected by many drugs of abuse, including cocaine, amphetamines, LSD, and alcohol. Serotonin is made by neurons in the Raphe nuclei. These neurons reach and dump serotonin onto almost the entire brain, as well as the spinal cord.
Glutamate. Glutamate is an excitatory relative of GABA. It is the most common neurotransmitter in the central nervous system-as much as half of all neurons in the brain-and is especially important in regards to memory. Curiously, glutamate is actually toxic to neurons, and an excess will kill them. It is an inhibitory neurotransmitter, meaning that when it finds its way to its receptor sites, it blocks the tendency of that neuron to fire. Dopamine is strongly associated with reward mechanisms in the brain. Drugs like cocaine, opium, heroin, and alcohol increase the levels of dopamine, as does nicotine.