This page details Moldova phone code. The Moldova country code 373 will allow you to call Moldova from another country. Moldova telephone code 373 is dialed after the IDD. Moldova international dialing 373 is followed by an area code. The Moldova area code table below shows the various city codes for Moldova. Moldova country codes are followed by these area codes. With the complete Moldova dialing code, you can make your international call. CountryCode.org is your complete guide to make a call from anywhere in the world, to anywhere in the world. This page details Moldova phone code. The Moldova country code 373 will allow you to call Moldova from another country. Moldova telephone code 373 is dialed after the IDD. Moldova international dialing 373 is followed by an area code. The ...
Calling Moldova from the United States explained: 1  011 - US exit code; dial first for international calls made from the USA or Canada. 
Follow @callingcodes. We hope Country Calling Codes has been of help to you in finding the Moldovan calling code for your international call from United States to Moldova. Why not bookmark this page and tell a friend about this site for the next time they need to lookup an area code or international dialing code. 
You can also call Moldova from more than 130 Countries with a Phone Card for as little as 11 cents per minute. International calls to Moldova require the country dialing code (373) and the appropriate city dialing code. The city calling codes used for making international calls to Moldova can be found in the table at the bottom of the page. To make an international call to Moldova from North America, simply dial 011 + 373 + (city calling code) + (local phone number). 
Structure of international telephone numbers [edit]. International telephone numbers consist of the country code 373, and 8 national significant numbers (N(S)N). The National Significant Number consists of 2-3 digits for the National Destination Code and 5-6 digits for the Subscriber Number (SN)
Search for International Country Codes used for long distance calling. Our Search box allow you to find all international country calling codes available and the specific phone area code. Phone country code directory is constantly updated. International area code lookup will be fast and convenient. 
Exit code + 373 + Area code + Telephone Number. Exit code or access code of a country is the code which is necessary to make international calls from that country. Find the access code of the country from which you are dialing before calling Moldova. Use the Search box given below to find the area code of various cities and places in Moldova. There are 44 area codes in Moldova. Moldova area codes usually have 2 or 3 digits. While calling Moldova from abroad, you need to dial the ISD code followed by the area code and finally the phone number. Given below is a list of area codes for calling Moldova's major cities/regions.
Given below is the procedure and dialing codes for making international calls to Moldova mobile or land line. While calling to Moldova from abroad, the dialing procedure is same whether you are calling from Land phone or cell phone. There are 44 area codes in Moldova. Moldova area codes usually have 2 or 3 digits. While calling Moldova from abroad, you need to dial the ISD code followed by the area code and finally the phone number. Given below is a list of area codes for calling Moldova's major cities/regions.