If bleeding with a tubal ligation is severe, a transfusion of blood or blood products may need to be done. Because the blood and blood products are actively screened for various diseases and problems, including AIDS and hepatitis (among others), blood transfusions are generally safe. You can expect a small amount of bleeding with a tubal ligation. Advertisement. A small amount of bleeding during a tubal ligation is normal. There can be several causes of bleeding, and the treatment will vary depending on the cause and your individual situation. In most cases, the bleeding will stop on its own or can be easily taken care of during the laparoscopic surgery
You should also tell him if you miss your period. Though it seems tha … t bleeding for long periods of time after tubal ligation surgery, it should not be accompanied with fever, nausea, and pain. This can be an indication of infection, in which case antibiotics are necessary. If you are having heavy bleeding that long after birth, you are doing too much. Climb into bed with your baby, and don't do anything for a few days but nurse and rest. Stay hydrated, and eat well (lots of protein). Keep off your feet, and ask friends and relatives to help with household chores for a couple more weeks.
1 Postpartum tubal ligation. 2  This is usually done as a mini-laparotomy after childbirth. 3  The fallopian tubes are higher in the abdomen right after pregnancy, so the incision is made below the belly button (navel). 4  The procedure is often done within 24 to 36 hours after the baby is delivered. Ectopic pregnancy risk. If a tubal ligation or implant fails and you become pregnant, you have an increased risk of having an ectopic pregnancy. Ectopic pregnancies can occur years after the tubal ligation and are most likely 3 or more years after the procedure. To learn more, see the topic Ectopic Pregnancy.
4 years ago by A Personal Choice Tubal Reversal Some women report having changes in their menstrual periods including such symptoms as heavy bleeding, longer bleeding, or more pain after having a tubal ligation. This is not normal or usual, but does affect an unknown percentage of women post tubal ligation. 4 years ago by A Personal Choice Tubal Reversal (View Profile). Some women report having changes in their menstrual periods including such symptoms as heavy bleeding, longer bleeding, or more pain after having a tubal ligation. This is not normal or usual, but does affect.
After a tubal ligation, you will most likely go home the same day. Your surgeon will give you instructions on what to expect and when to call after the surgery. 1  You may have some slight vaginal bleeding caused by the movement of your uterus during the surgery. Ectopic pregnancy risk. If a tubal ligation or implant fails and you become pregnant, you have an increased risk of having an ectopic pregnancy. Ectopic pregnancies can occur years after the tubal ligation and are most likely 3 or more years after the procedure. To learn more, see the topic Ectopic Pregnancy.
If you have heavy vaginal bleeding after the first day post-surgery, you should tell your doctor. You should also tell him if you miss your period. Though it seems that bleeding for long periods of time after tubal ligation surgery, it should not be accompanied with fever, nausea, and pain. This can be an indication of infection, in which case antibiotics are necessary. Ignoring treatment for an infection can lead to permanent and serious complications
Bleeding and Tubal Ligation: An Overview. If you have serious bleeding or there is serious damage to a major blood vessel, the tubal ligation may need to be changed to an open surgery to control the bleeding and prevent loss of life. This means that a larger incision will be made in the abdomen so that your doctor can view the inside of your abdomen better. You can expect a small amount of bleeding with a tubal ligation. Advertisement. A small amount of bleeding during a tubal ligation is normal. There can be several causes of bleeding, and the treatment will vary depending on the cause and your individual situation. In most cases, the bleeding will stop on its own or can be easily taken care of during the laparoscopic surgery