Obama honors Lincoln, orders flags at half-staff. U.S. flags across the country are flying at half-staff Wednesday to honor the 150th anniversary of Abraham Lincoln's death, pursuant to an order by President Obama.
Governor Ducey has ordered that flags at all state office buildings be lowered to half-staff from sunrise until sunset Tuesday, June 30, 2015, in honor and remembrance of the19 Granite Mountain Hotshots who gave their lives at Yarnell Hill two years ago.
In coordination with the President’s proclamation, Governor Ducey has ordered that flags at all state office buildings be lowered to half-staff beginning today, July 21, 2015, until sunset July 25, 2015, in honor of the five United States service members killed last week by a gunman in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
President Obama has ordered the flag of the United States to be flown at half-staff on all Federal office buildings on Sunday, October 16, 2011 in honor of the National Fallen Firefighters Memorial Service. All Americans are encouraged to join in this tribute.
Pennsylvania Governor Corbett has ordered all United States flags and Pennsylvania State flags lowered to half-staff at the Capitol Complex on Friday, October 28, 2011 in honor of two World War II airmen whose remains were recently returned to the United States.
February 12, 2013 - Massachusetts Governor Patrick has ordered the United States flag and Commonwealth flag lowered to half-staff at all state buildings from sunrise to sunset on Tuesday, February 12, 2013 in honor of PFC Michael A. Gorman of Brookline who died on February 5, 2013.
(April 15) AP. U.S. flags across the country are flying at half-staff Wednesday to honor the 150th anniversary of Abraham Lincoln's death, pursuant to an order by President Obama.
Florida Governor Rick Scott has ordered that all state and national flags outside the Pinellas County Courthouse, Dunedin City Hall and the Capitol in Tallahassee be flown at half staff March 26, 2013 in honor of Army Spc. Zack Shannon.
Missouri Governor Jay Nixon has ordered that the U.S. and Missouri flags at state buildings in all 114 counties and the City of St. Louis be flown at half-staff on Wednesday, April 18, to honor the bravery and sacrifice of Specialist Jeffrey Lee White Jr.