With the voids out of commission, more vibration will find its way from the engine and transmission to the chassis. So, generally speaking, most of the effects of a bad engine mount will have to do with the chassis, and not the engine or transmission. 
Engine and Transmission Mounts. Engine and transmission mounts are an often overlooked cause of engine noise and vibration. A loose or broken motor mount that allows excessive engine movement may allow a belt-driven fan to hit the fan shroud, or the fan to hit the radiator hoses. The rear mount may be part of a bolt-in crossmember support. On front-wheel drive (FWD) cars and minivans with transverse mounted engines, there are left and right engine/transmission mounts, and a third mount above or below to triangulate support.
How to tell if a motor mount is bad. How to check loose or bad motor engine mount. Learn the main methods for diagnosing a bad motor mount or bad transmission mount. The first method is to watch the engine as it goes in and out of gear. The next method is to drive the car (when you know it is aligned properly) and see if it pulls
There are many different kinds of mounts, among which are the engine mount and the transmission mount. An engine mount attached the engine to the chassis. A transmission mount, on the other hand, work with engine mounts to control torque and minimize the vibration transferred to the chassis. It is also the trans mount which keeps linkages in their proper positions. So if you have your car for a couple of years now, have the mounts inspected for signs of failure regularly. And should you need a new engine mount, several stores have them available so it shouldn't be hard to find a replacement.
Question I still have and can't figure it out for now, is that can broken engine mount, like for example my Transmission mount that is on the driver side, cause the car to drive this way by pulling to sides and being loose in the front. I know there are 4 mounts that engine uses. One Rear Mount, One Front Mount, One Left Side Mount and One Transmission mount that is on the driver side. My dealer replaced Rear engine mount because it was busted after I went to track.
Usually, they suspend the engine and transmission weight from a mount on each side. Mounts on the front and rear of the assembly control the torque of the engine. When we place the transmission in a forward gear, torque causes the powertrain to rotate. This rotation lifts the front of the engine and pulls up on the front engine mount. A collapsed engine and transmission mount. Failure of engine and transmission mounts also occur in other ways. Instead of tearing, some mounts collapse. These mounts fail internally and may not show external damage. When we compared an old mount with a new mount, the difference in height is apparent.
For the engine, one of the parts that does this is the engine mount. This part, sometimes called the engine motor mount, is responsible for attaching the engine and transmission to your car's chassis. At the same time, this mount secures the engine and absorbs the vibration coming from engine and vehicle operation. So if you have your car for a couple of years now, have the mounts inspected for signs of failure regularly. And should you need a new engine mount, several stores have them available so it shouldn't be hard to find a replacement.
On rear-wheel drive (RWD) cars and trucks, there is usually a pair of motor mounts on each side of the engine to support the engine, and a single mount under the back of the transmission. The rear mount may be part of a bolt-in crossmember support. On front-wheel drive (FWD) cars and minivans with transverse mounted engines, there are left and right engine/transmission mounts, and a third mount above or below to triangulate support.
1 Do not drive your car for too long with broken engine or transmission mounts. 2  It can cause severe damage to the axle shafts and transmission. 3  Some engine mounts contain oil that may leak if a mount is damaged. An engine mount, made of rubber and steel, has two purposes. One, it secures the engine and transmission to the frame of the car, and two, it absorbs the road shocks and engine vibrations so that the driver does not feel any engine movement.
A bad transmission mount can create driveline noise when starting out or accelerating, or it may even affect the operation of the clutch or gear shift linkage. Mounts deteriorate with age and mileage, so it’s not unusual to find one or more broken or collapsed mounts in older high-mileage vehicles. The rear mount may be part of a bolt-in crossmember support. On front-wheel drive (FWD) cars and minivans with transverse mounted engines, there are left and right engine/transmission mounts, and a third mount above or below to triangulate support.