It takes about 50 days to hatch an Emu egg. The male usually picks out where he wants the hen to lay the eggs. She will lay one egg every three days and when she has … 6 to 8 eggs in the nest he will brood. The male sits on the eggs not the female. 23 people found this useful. 
I have a chick that started peeping in the egg tonight. How long does it take for the chick to come out? This is my first time hatching eggs. I'm sitting on pins and needles waiting for the chick to arrive. Should I stay up and wait for it to hatch? 
Each of our hens lays 1 egg every three days, on average. The taste difference between emu eggs and chicken eggs is minimal. Chicken eggs contain 37% saturated (bad) and 63% unsaturated (good) fats, while emu eggs contain 31% saturated and 68% unsaturated fats. Chicken eggs contain about 65% white, 35% yolk. Emu eggs contain 55% white, and 45% yolk. The big green eggs yield about two cups of egg. One large chicken egg is about one quarter cup. You will probably want to blow your emu egg, as you would blow a chicken egg, rather than crack it, to save the beautiful shell.
Fresh emu eggs can be refrigerated up to a month or frozen up to a year. Eggs may be separated prior to freezing. When freezing the yolk, or scrambled egg, add either 1/2 teaspoon of salt or 6 teaspoons of sugar per cup. If you do not add salt or sugar, the yolk will become gelatin over time. Chicken eggs contain about 65% white, 35% yolk. Emu eggs contain 55% white, and 45% yolk. The big green eggs yield about two cups of egg. One large chicken egg is about one quarter cup. You will probably want to blow your emu egg, as you would blow a chicken egg, rather than crack it, to save the beautiful shell.
The bird is sufficiently common for it to be rated as a least-concern species by the International Union for Conservation of Nature. Emus are soft-feathered, brown, flightless birds with long necks and legs, and can reach up to 1.9 metres (6.2 ft) in height. Emus can travel great distances, and when necessary can sprint at 50 km/h (30 mph); they forage for a variety of plants and insects, but have been known to go for weeks without eating. 
Send Enquiry. Emu Eggs. Emu pairs mates every two days or a day and female starts to lay eggs from the month of august to march, on an average female can lay 8 to 15 eggs in the first season and every year the egg lay increases and it also depends on external factory like climate, feeds and ect. 