If this happens long-term, Connelly says, he's seen cases in which the teeth completely dissolve all the way to the gum line. Toothaches are kind of the catch-all for oral health problems, and can be caused by just about everything in this slide show -- cavities, impacted wisdom teeth, gum disease... Connelly says his office sees about five emergencies every day related to toothaches. 
Bad breath is often caused by a buildup of bacteria in your mouth that causes inflammation and gives off noxious odors or gases that smell like sulfur -- or worse. Bad Breath (Halitosis). Bad breath, medically called halitosis, can result from poor dental health habits and may be a sign of other health problems. Only 18.5% of Americans never floss. You are missing out on a simple way to make a big difference in the health of your mouth. Regardless of how well you brush, plaque still forms between your teeth and along your gums.
Print. Dental health is a very important part of your pet’s overall health, and dental problems can cause, or be caused by, other health problems. Oral health in dogs and cats. Your pet’s teeth should be checked at least once a year by your veterinarian for early signs of a problem and to keep your pet’s mouth healthy. Have your pet’s teeth checked sooner if you observe any of the following problems:
Your Mouth, Your Health. When you are focused on your overall health and well-being—and especially when you are dealing with a chronic health condition like HIV—it can be easy to overlook dental issues and oral health care. But good dental hygiene is an important part of managing your HIV disease. If you wait until you are having problems with your teeth and gums to see a dentist, you can end up with an infection, pain, and/or tooth loss. Poor oral health can even lead to malnutrition. When you are focused on your overall health and well-being—and especially when you are dealing with a chronic health condition like HIV—it can be easy to overlook dental issues and oral health care
Diabetes and Oral Health Problems. The more severe form of gum disease is called periodontitis. When you reach this stage, your gums begin to pull away from your teeth. Pockets form between your teeth and gums. These fill with germs and pus, and deepen. 
The health of your mouth can be a sign of your body's health. Mouth problems are not just cavities, toothaches, and crooked or stained teeth. Many diseases, such as diabetes, heart disease, HIV, cancer, and some eating disorders are linked with oral health problems. 
Wisdom Teeth. Wisdom teeth are the very last teeth that people get as a young adult (teens to early twenties). They are called the third molars. Some people may be able to keep their wisdom teeth if they do not cause any problems. Other times, wisdom teeth may crowd other teeth, cause pain, have decay, or may be associated with gum disease or another dental problem. In these cases, extraction of the wisdom teeth may be warranted. 
Most people -- 90% -- have at least one wisdom tooth that’s impacted, or not able to fully grow in. Problems with your wisdom teeth can cause cavities, damage to neighboring teeth, and gum disease. Wisdom teeth generally come in between the ages of 17 and 25. Your dentist should track their progress. If they become a problem, you may need to get them removed. 3. Cavities. These little holes in your teeth are bad news. You get them when a sticky bacteria, called plaque, builds up on your teeth, slowly destroying the hard outer shell, called enamel. Adults can also have problems with tooth decay at the gum line and around the edges of earlier fillings.
Pet Dental Care. Dental health is a very important part of your pet’s overall health, and dental problems can cause, or be caused by, other health problems. Your pet’s teeth and gums should be checked at least once a year by your veterinarian to check for early signs of a problem and to keep your pet’s mouth healthy. Oral health in dogs and cats. Your pet’s teeth should be checked at least once a year by your veterinarian for early signs of a problem and to keep your pet’s mouth healthy. Have your pet’s teeth checked sooner if you observe any of the following problems: