artificial organ. Any tissue, organ, limb, or highly complex biological structure that is partially or completely synthetic in nature, and performs the tasks of the structure it is intended to replace. See also prosthesis. artificial milk. see milk replacer. artificial organ. a mechanical device that can substitute temporarily or permanently for a body organ. Not usually used in veterinary medicine. artificial parturition induction. see
The pancreas is an organ in the body that secretes several hormones, including insulin and glucagon, as well as digestive enzymes that help break down food. A blood glucose device (such as a glucose meter) is used to calibrate the CGM. A computer-controlled algorithm connects the CGM and insulin infusion pump to allow continuous communication between the two devices.
FDA’s Efforts to Advance Artificial Pancreas Device Systems and the Challenges Ahead. The FDA is helping advance the development of an artificial pancreas device system (APDS)—an innovative device that automatically monitors blood glucose and provides appropriate insulin doses in people with diabetes who use insulin. 
An implanted pump in the (groin) or (scrotum) can be manipulated by hand to fill these artificial cylinders, normally sized to be direct replacements for the natural corpora cavernosa, from an implanted reservoir in order to achieve an erection. It is also possible to construct and install an artificial organ to give its possessor abilities which are not naturally occurring. Research is proceeding, particularly in areas of vision, memory, and information processing, however this idea is still in its infancy.
Artificial Organs. There is a critical shortage of donor organs of all types. Artificial organs that perform the function of natural organs can help alleviate this problem as well as sustain patients with organ failure as they await donor organs. In some cases, artificial organs can eliminate the need for transplantation altogether
The biomaterials, scaffolds, artificial organs, and differentiating cells that are combined to create a tissue engineering product address significant medical needs, such as major tissue and organ damage or failure. Tissue and organ failure, produced as a result of injury or other type of damage, is a major health problem, accounting for about half of the total annual expenditure in health care in the US.
Living layers: Harvard researchers demonstrate their method for creating vascularized tissue constructs by printing cell-laden inks in a layered zig-zag pattern. In what may be a critical breakthrough for creating artificial organs, Harvard researchers say they have created tissue interlaced with blood vessels. Artificial Organs May Finally Get a Blood Supply. Artificial tissue has always lacked a key ingredient: blood vessels. A new 3-D printing technique seems poised to change that. 1  By Susan Young Rojahn on March 6, 2014.
One solution for the shortage of transplantable organs is creating artificial ones that last. Already, researchers are developing bioartificial organs that can keep patients with serious organ failure alive and functioning for years. Im sorry to hear that you need surgery, but the truth is that, synthetic organs are a bad thing. and thats what we wanna see on lifetime, not some crap about casey anthony or zimmerman being as gangster as the next gangster, its old news. http://quality.e-patches.ca/memorial/. Morons, the lot of you.
Growing artificial organs has long been a dream of scientists. If possible, the organs could revolutionize the way we treat people who need transplants. Now, researchers may be one step closer to realizing that dream. 