Catechu (/ˈkaetɨʃuː/ ˈkætɨʃuː /or/) ˈkaetɨtʃuː ˈkætɨtʃuː is an extract of acacia trees used variously as a, food, additive, astringent tannin. And dye it is extracted from several Species, of acacia But especially (Senegalia catechu), acacia catechu by boiling the wood in water and evaporating the. resulting brew The catechu mixture is high in natural vegetable tannins (which accounts for its astringent effect), and may be used for the tanning of animal hides.
First let us look at what is meant by “Khata” according to BBMP (Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike). Khata is an account of assessment of a property, recording details about your property such as size, location, built up area and so on for the purpose of payment of property tax. 4. Coming to A katha or B katha, what I know if your property is converted your katha would be A otherwise it is B katha. 5. For B khatha holders to covert they need to pay the one time development charges to BBMP through AKRAMA SAKRAMA. However govt is not clear on this and nobody is paying this ammount.
Khata Extract. Khata Extract is a process of acquiring details from the assessment register in order to obtain a trade license or buy a property. Khata Extract consists of property details such as the name, property size, property use (residential/commercial) and the annual value. A Khata is an important document required to acquire a building license, trade license, bank loan, to sell the property or to show legal ownership of the property in BBMP records. Before a Khata is processed, a document named as ‘Uttarapatra’ (acknowledgment of application) is generated.
The word Khata refers to two specific documents issued by the BBMP (Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike) to a property owner – the Khata Certificate and the Khata Extract. The Khata Certificate is a document that identifies who the owner of a particular property is. In other words, it “certifies” that a particular property belongs to particular person.
If BBMP issues a khata certificate and a khata extract which means that your property has been registered in the revenue records of BBMP and which is ‘A’ khata. ‘B’ khata is not a khata, it is only a Form B issued by BBMP without registering your property in their revenue records. 4. Coming to A katha or B katha, what I know if your property is converted your katha would be A otherwise it is B katha. 5. For B khatha holders to covert they need to pay the one time development charges to BBMP through AKRAMA SAKRAMA. However govt is not clear on this and nobody is paying this ammount.
Khata transfer is required when the ownership of property is transferred from one person to another for any reason like sale of property, gift, will or in case of death of property owner and so on. 1 Normally an EC is provided within 7 working days. 2  Application for Khata: Y ou need to obtain a Khata registration form for applying for a Khata. 3  The application is the same as that needed for applying for property registration, transfer and modification of Khata. 4  It is available either online or at any BBMP office.
Khata Certificate is obtained for any new registration after paying the tax. The certificate is issued saying that a particular property No ‘XYZ’ stands in the name of person A. This certificate is required to apply for water connection, electricity connection, trade license and building license. 1 Normally an EC is provided within 7 working days. 2  Application for Khata: Y ou need to obtain a Khata registration form for applying for a Khata. 3  The application is the same as that needed for applying for property registration, transfer and modification of Khata. 4  It is available either online or at any BBMP office.
The most important aspect of the Khata Extract is that it contains the amount of property taxes that must be paid on the property. In addition to that information it also contains various details about the property such as: 1  Size of the property. 2  Location of the property. 3  Built-up Area of the property. The Khata Certificate is a document that identifies who the owner of a particular property is. In other words, it “certifies” that a particular property belongs to particular person.
1 Application for Khata: Y ou need to obtain a Khata registration form for applying for a Khata. 2  The application is the same as that needed for applying for property registration, transfer and modification of Khata. 3  It is available either online or at any BBMP office. 1 Normally an EC is provided within 7 working days. 2  Application for Khata: Y ou need to obtain a Khata registration form for applying for a Khata. 3  The application is the same as that needed for applying for property registration, transfer and modification of Khata. 4
For applying for a khata certificate, the owner of the property has to give a letter of requisition along with details and receipts of tax paid (latest) to Assistant officer for the sub-division or range. fee for a khata certificate is Rs 25/- per property. 1 Normally an EC is provided within 7 working days. 2  Application for Khata: Y ou need to obtain a Khata registration form for applying for a Khata. 3  The application is the same as that needed for applying for property registration, transfer and modification of Khata. 4  It is available either online or at any BBMP office.