The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars.
! prolegomene. prolegomene. n. prolegomena-an introduction at the start of a book, usually used in plural form. dig the dirt. dig the dirt. v. to look for or expose information about a person's past, usually bad, and to therefore bring that person down or put them in a bad light. couch surfing. couch surfing. A list of blogs on a blog (usually placed in the sidebar of a blog) that reads as a list of recommendations by the blogger of other blogs.
1 = normally, generally, mainly, commonly, regularly, mostly, routinely, on the whole, in the main, for the most part, by and large, most often, ordinarily, as a rule, habitually, as is usual, as is the custom, USU (text messaging) • The best information about hotels usually comes from friends. 
The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Free thesaurus definition of usually from the Macmillan English Dictionary-a free English dictionary online with thesaurus and with pronunciation from Macmillan Publishers Limited. in an online conversation, repeatedly asking a person questions which suggest that you are interested in what they are talking about, but are actually intended to annoy them. BuzzWord archive.
PPDB, the paraphrase database (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate these synonyms: List of paraphrases: normally, generally, typically, ordinarily, commonly, often, habitually, customarily, traditionally, routinely, mostly, widely, frequently, usual. 
sea lion. in an online conversation, repeatedly asking a person questions which suggest that you are interested in what they are talking about, but are actually intended to annoy them. BuzzWord archive.
Synonyms and Antonyms of USUALLY. Synonyms commonly, generally, natch [ slang ] , normally, ordinarily, typically, usually. 
This is the British English definition of usually. View American English definition of usually. Change your default dictionary to American English. View the pronunciation for usually. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars.
English Collins Dictionary-English synonyms & Thesaurus &nbsp. usually 1 adv If something usually happens, it is the thing that most often happens in a particular situation. ADV before v, ADV with cl/group (=generally, normally). A list of blogs on a blog (usually placed in the sidebar of a blog) that reads as a list of recommendations by the blogger of other blogs.
Blog. A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Definition and synonyms of usually from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars.