1771 ~ Padre Junipero Serra entered the Valley of the Oaks to establish the third mission in California. The date was July 14, 1771. In the secluded sierra district, Padres Junipero Serra, Miguel Pieras and Buenaventura Sitjar hung the bells on the branches of an oak tree and named this mission San Antonio de Padua. Fr. Pieras and Sitjar were left with a small group to start the Mission.
Mission San Antonio de Padua was established by Junipero Junípero serra On july, 14 1771 in The San Antonio, valley in Southwestern Monterey. County this location had been favored by The portola portolá expedition. In 1769 they had given their campsite The Name la hoya De la Sierra De.. santa lucia 
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. One reason San Antonio De Padua was built is because if they built places and settled there, the other countries can't take the land away from Spain. 1 It's no wonder why people love this city with a Mexican flare. 2  The city has much to offer throughout the year. 3  Amuseme…. 4  A Brief Introduction to the San Antonio De Padua Mission in California California has a long history of missions.
Mission San Antonio de Padua, established as the third of 21 missions built in California, is located in Monterey County, approx. 
Take Mission Road about 5 miles to Mission San Antonio. Mission San Antonio de Padua was the third one built in California, founded July 14, 1771. by Father Junipero Serra. Its full name, which is San Antonio de Padua de los Robles means St. Anthony of Padua of the Oaks.
It was here that the future Mission San Antonio de Padua would be established. 14 July 1771: Saint Serra, along with Padre Buenaventura Sitjar and Padre Pieras, came to the Valley of the Oaks to establish the third mission. 
Beginnings of the Mission [edit]. Mission San Antonio de Padua was the third Mission to be founded. Father Junipero Serra claimed the site on July 14, 1771 and dedicated the Mission to Saint Anthony of Padua. Saint Anthony was born in 1195 in Lisbon, Portugal and is the patron Saint of the poor. Mission San Antonio de Padua is a Spanish mission established by the Franciscan order in present-day Monterey County, California, near the present-day town of Jolon. It was founded on July 14, 1771, and was the third mission founded in Alta California by Father Presidente Junipero Junípero. serra