Additionally, titanium is used in jewelry for its high durability and ability to be anodized to produce a wide variety of colors. The metal is also biocompatible, and is frequently used in medical implants and surgical tools, either alone or as part of metal-ceramic composites. Titanium dioxide is used to produce a white pigment. Titanium is the basis for numerous commercially essential compound groups, such as titanates for electronic and di-electric formulations and in crystal growth for ruby and sapphire lasers.
Titanium polluted with nickel Several studies show that titanium alloys contain traces of nickel as a result of the production process. This can pose trigger health problems in patients with nickel allergy, and also mean that a reaction may be falsely attributed to titanium itself. Titanium dioxide (TiO 2) is widely used in consumer products, as it is non-toxic – even though it triggers allergies in certain people. It is known as a “pearling agent” as it makes paper and paint glossy and white. Always check the content of food stuff, pills and cosmetics for titanium dioxide.
(Nickel is also present in substantial amounts in stainless steel and cobalt-chrome alloys.) When properly treated (via electropolishing and/or passivation), nitinol forms a very stable protective TiO 2 layer that acts as a very effective and self-healing barrier against ion exchange. Having found that a 1:1 alloy of nickel and titanium could do the job, in 1961 he presented a sample at a laboratory management meeting. The sample, folded up like an accordion, was passed around and flexed by the participants.
It is a nickel-titanium metal alloy with some unique properties. It is also known as Nickel titanium. This alloy exhibits the superelasticity or pseudoelasticity and the shape memory properties. It means this unique metal can remember its original shape and shows great elasticity under stress.
Product Forms. Net-Shapes & Components. ATI's nickel- & cobalt-based alloys and superalloys are used in jet engines, gas turbines, chemical processing, petroleum refining, marine, electronics and other applications where common stainless steels may not provide adequate performance. 
Titanium allergy is barely recognized in mainstream medicine – yet laboratories using the MELISA technology have reported that about 4% of all patients tested to titanium will be allergic to it (Valentine-Thon E., et al. “ LTT-MELISA is clinically relevant for detecting and monitoring metal sensitivity “. Titanium dioxide (TiO 2) is widely used in consumer products, as it is non-toxic – even though it triggers allergies in certain people. It is known as a “pearling agent” as it makes paper and paint glossy and white. Always check the content of food stuff, pills and cosmetics for titanium dioxide.
Nickel titanium, also known as nitinol (part of shape memory alloy), is a metal alloy of nickel and titanium, where the two elements are present in roughly equal atomic percentages e.g. Nitinol 55, Nitinol 60. Having found that a 1:1 alloy of nickel and titanium could do the job, in 1961 he presented a sample at a laboratory management meeting. The sample, folded up like an accordion, was passed around and flexed by the participants.
Plating onto Titanium Services by SPC. Titanium is a lightweight but dense silver-gray metal known for its lustrous appearance. Titanium's high strength-to-weight ratio and superior resistance to corrosion makes it an extremely popular choice for numerous industrial applications. In addition, Electroless Nickel is used to coat titanium as an initial coating. 
The nickel-titanium alloy Nitinol has been used in the manufacture of endodontic instruments in recent years. Nitinol alloys have greater strength and a lower modulus of elasticity compared with stainless steel alloys. 
International Endodontic Journal, 33, 297–310, 2000. Literature review The nickel–titanium alloy Nitinolhas been used in the manufacture of endodontic instru-ments in recent years. Nitinol alloys have greaterstrength and a lower modulus of elasticity comparedwith stainless steel alloys. 33, 297–310, 2000 307 Other uses of nickel–titanium alloy in dentistry Castings for crowns and denture construction The use of NiTi alloy in the construction of dentalprostheses was ﬁrst investigated by Civjan et al. (1975)who cast 55-Nitinol into phosphate-bonded investmentmoulds.