The Normans built motte and bailey castles to begin with. These castle were quick to build using just earth and timber. Later, once William the Conqueror, the leader of the Normans, had firmly established his rule in England, the Normans built huge stone keep castles. and the first real Castles. The Normans (1066 - 1215) built the first castles in the style of Motte and bailey and later stone castles for better protection. The Normans. The Normans invaded England in 1066 and after killing England's King, they set about taking over the whole country
The first proper castles built in England were the Motte and Bailey castles. A drawing of the old motte and bailey castle of Tonbridge. The term motte and bailey castle comes from Norman French words for mound and enclosed land. Motte-mound or 'clod of earth'. Bailey-enclosure. Windsor Castle-the first motte and Bailey castle. There were motte and bailey castles all over England and along the frontier of Wales. Many of England's existing castles began as motte and bailey castles. Windsor Castle in Berkshire, started life as a motte and bailey castl
Stone Castles took so long to build that William laid plans to build Norman Timber Castles when he mounted his invasion. Pre-built wooden castles were loaded on to the Norman invasion fleet. The first pre-built Norman Wooden Castle was erected at Pevensey Bay in 1066. Temporary wooden Motte and Bailey castles were quickly replaced by the permanent stone Norman castles dominated by their massive keeps. Norman Castles were typically built on the highest ground in the area, often adjoined Rivers and overlooking towns and harbours. They often made use of existing sites of Roman or Saxon forts and burhs. If no suitable motte existed then the Normans simply built one-as at Norwich.
The Normans were master castle builders. After 1066, England witnessed a massive castle building programme on the orders of William the Conqueror. First, motte and bailey castles were built. Once William had firmly established his rule in England, he built huge stone keep castles. By the time of Edward I, concentric castles were being built.
A motte-and-bailey castle was made up of two structures, a motte, a type of mound–often artificial–topped with a wooden or stone structure known as a keep; and at least one bailey, a fortified enclosure built next to the motte. The term motte and bailey is a relatively modern one, and is not medieval in origin. Although motte-and-bailey castles are the best known castle design, they were not always the most numerous in any given area. A popular alternative was the ringwork castle, involving a palisade being built on top of a raised earth rampart, protected by a ditch.
Many Norman castles survive from the reign of the first Norman King of England, William-now known as William the Conqueror but then known as William the Bastard. Among them are the Tower of London, Windsor Castle, Durham Castle and Norwich Castle. Notable examples in Wales are Chepstow and Pembroke. Norman Castles were typically built on the highest ground in the area, often adjoined Rivers and overlooking towns and harbours. They often made use of existing sites of Roman or Saxon forts and burhs. If no suitable motte existed then the Normans simply built one-as at Norwich.
The Normans from France, introduced the Motte and Bailey castle to England, when they invaded the country in 1066. It is believed that as many as 1000 Motte and Bailey Castles were built in England by the Normans. Windsor Castle-the first motte and Bailey castle. There were motte and bailey castles all over England and along the frontier of Wales. Many of England's existing castles began as motte and bailey castles. Windsor Castle in Berkshire, started life as a motte and bailey castle
Early castles relied on the surrounding landscape to provide much of the protection. Early castles were made of wood and built on hills of mottes. Surrounded by a high, wooden palisade, motte and bailey castles were used widely until the Norman invasion of 1066. These fortifications proved too easy to burn, and stone was then used more frequently. 