1. Be able to understand the motivation for international trade. 2. Be able to summarize and discuss the differences among the classical country-based theories of international trade. 3. Be able to use the modern firm-based theories of international trade to describe global strategies adopted by businesses.
Mercantilism. Developed in the sixteenth century, mercantilismA classical, country-based international trade theory that states that a country’s wealth is determined by its holdings of gold and silver. was one of the earliest efforts to develop an economic theory.
The classical theory of international trade is popularly known as the Theory of Comparative Costs or Advantage. It was formulated by David Ricardo in 1815. The classical approach, in terms of comparative cost advantage, as presented by Ricardo, basically seeks to explain how and why countries gain by trading.
No notes for slide. 1  1. Classical Theory of International Trade Theory of Comparative Costs was discussed by the famous economist David Ricardo in his book, Principles of Political Economy and Taxation(1871).
Classical International Trade Theory. Mercantilism thoughts and ideas steered trade in Europe from the beginning of the sixteenth century until the end of the eighteenth century. In the beginning of the nineteenth century Adam Smith’s trade theory started to gain acceptance.
Best Answer: The Classical theory of international trade is given by Adam Smith and David Ricardo. The theory explains the condition of international trade specialization and benefits of trade.According to the theory international trade is a case of geographical speculation.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The Classical theory of international trade is given by Adam Smith and David Ricardo. The theory explains the condition of international trade specialization and benefits of trade.According to the theory international trade is a case of geographical speculation.
International trade theories are simply different theories to explain international trade. Trade is the concept of exchanging goods and services between two people or entities. International trade is then the concept of this exchange between people or entities in two different countries.
By the mid-twentieth century, the theories began to shift to explain trade from a firm, rather than a country, perspective. These theories are referred to as modern and are firm-based or company-based. Both of these categories, classical and modern, consist of several international theories.