And, it is clear their memories can stretch over decades, aiding in their ability to survive for their relatively long lifespans. So to say an elephant “never forgets” is an exaggeration, but they do seem to have exceptional memories for certain things nonetheless. Scientists haven’t been able to measure exactly how smart an elephant is, but they have been able to measure an elephant’s EQ, or encephalization quotient. This measures the size of an animal’s brain against the size scientists project it would be based on body weight.
Yes! In fact, it’s quite interesting because an elephant’s memory is a great example of how recollection is tied to species survival. In a study conducted by Karen McComb, et al and published in the journal Science, they noted that elephant “families” (excuse the unscientific lingo there!) are led by a matriarch. (8). So, while we can’t know for sure if they really never forget a thing (the ability to have complex discourse with elephants is still underway (9)), they definitely have a good memory. With more research, we may even find they are smarter than us. 1 http://orvillejenkins.com/words/elephant.html.
| Filed Under: Animals Leave a Comment. The elephant’s memory has been greatly exaggerated. It does remember many things, but the statement, “An elephant never forgets,” is not true. Some people used to think that elephants particularly remembered an injury, but this does not seem to be true either. 
Believe it or not, the belief that elephants never forget has more than a bit of truth to it. In reality, “an elephant never forgets” is a generalization that’s not true all the time because all elephants forget things from time to time. However, scientists have proven that elephants do have incredible memories.
The elephant brain is denser than the human's, and the temporal lobes, associated to memory, are more developed than in humans. Elephant's lobes also have more foldings, so that they can store more information. That's why elephants have excellent memory. 
It is obviously impossible to say that elephants never forget anything-and it seems likely they do forget things-but studies have shown that elephants do have exceptionally long memories for certain types of things. Scientists haven’t been able to measure exactly how smart an elephant is, but they have been able to measure an elephant’s EQ, or encephalization quotient. This measures the size of an animal’s brain against the size scientists project it would be based on body weight.
So yes, elephants have fabulous memories, and this is one of the things that makes them so special. An elephant’s brain can weigh up to 5 kilograms – larger than any other land animal. It helps store that amazing memory. Our thanks to the Monsanto Fund, bridging the gap between people and their resources. A student from Spain wonders if it’s true that elephants have good memories. Elephant ecologist Stephen Blake answers the question, and talks about what makes elephants
Stephen Blake: Elephants do have fantastic memories. If you imagine an elephant that lives in a tropical rainforest, one of the most complicated systems on Earth, that elephant has to know where fruit trees are, where good forage is. A student from Spain wonders if it’s true that elephants have good memories. Elephant ecologist Stephen Blake answers the question, and talks about what makes elephants so special.
A complex social life. In a top of intelligence, humans are followed by apes, elephants and dolphins. The elephant brain is denser than the human's, and the temporal lobes, associated to memory, are more developed than in humans. Elephant's lobes also have more foldings, so that they can store more information. That's why elephants have excellent memory