Introduction. Bile duct cancer (cholangiocarcinoma) is a rare but aggressive type of cancer. The bile duct system, or biliary system, is made up of a series of tubes that begin in the liver and end in the small intestine. Bile is a fluid the digestive system uses to help break down fats and digest foods
Bile duct cancer arises from the cells that line the bile ducts, the drainage system for bile produced by the liver. Bile ducts collect this bile, draining it into the gallbladder and finally into the small intestine where it aids in the digestion process. Bile duct cancer is also called cholangiocarcinoma. Bile duct cancer is a rare form of cancer, with approximately 2,000 new cases diagnosed in the United States each year. There are three general locations where this type of cancer may arise within the bile drainage system: The incidence of bile duct cancer increases with age. It is a slow-growing cancer that invades local structures and for that reason, the diagnosis is often made late in the disease process when the bile ducts become blocked.
Cholangiocarcinoma is considered to be an incurable and rapidly lethal malignancy unless both the primary tumor and any metastases can be fully resected (removed surgically). Other biliary tract cancers include pancreatic cancer, gallbladder cancer, and cancer of the ampulla of Vater. Cholangiocarcinoma is a relatively rare neoplasm that is classified as an adenocarcinoma (a cancer that forms glands or secretes significant amounts of mucins).
Cholangiocarcinoma is a form of cancer that is composed of mutated epithelial cells (or cells showing characteristics of epithelial differentiation) that originate in the bile ducts which drain bile from the liver into the small intestine. Other biliary tract cancers include pancreatic cancer, gallbladder cancer, and cancer of the ampulla of Vater. Cholangiocarcinoma is a relatively rare neoplasm that is classified as an adenocarcinoma (a cancer that forms glands or secretes significant amounts of mucins).
Bile duct cancer (cholangiocarcinoma) is rare, with around 1,000 new cases each year in the UK. It is almost always a type of cancer called adenocarcinoma, which starts in the lining of the bile duct. If cancer starts in the part of the bile ducts within the liver, it is known as intra-hepatic. 
Prominent signs and symptoms of cholangiocarcinoma include abnormal liver function tests, abdominal pain, jaundice, and weight loss. Other symptoms such as generalized itching, fever, and changes in color of stool or urine may also occur. Other biliary tract cancers include pancreatic cancer, gallbladder cancer, and cancer of the ampulla of Vater. Cholangiocarcinoma is a relatively rare neoplasm that is classified as an adenocarcinoma (a cancer that forms glands or secretes significant amounts of mucins).
Cholangiocarcinoma is a cancer that arises from the cells within the bile ducts; both inside and outside the liver. When the tumors arise within the liver, the tumors can be small or large. The terms cholangiocarcinoma and bile duct cancer are often used interchangeably. This form of cancer is slightly more common in males than females and usually affects patients who are between 50-70 years of age. Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma. In contrast, when the tumors arise along the bile ducts that enter the liver, the tumors tend to be smaller.
Because cholangiocarcinoma is usually found in an advanced stage (after it has spread), often times surgery to remove the cancer is not an option. Cholangiocarcinoma starts in the bile duct, a thin tube, about 4 to 5 inches long, that reaches from the liver to the small intestine. The major function of the bile duct is to move a fluid called bile from the liver and gallbladder to the small intestine, where it helps digest the fats in food. Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma develops in the smaller bile duct branches inside the liver. It can sometimes be confused with cancer that starts in the liver cells, which is called hepatocellular carcinoma, and is often treated the same way.
Cholangiocarcinoma is a rare and often fatal cancer that affects the bile ducts. The bile ducts are a series of tubes that transport digestive juices called bile from your liver, where it is made, to your gallbladder, where it is stored. From there, the ducts carry bile to your gut, where it helps to break down fats in the foods you eat. An additional rare but serious symptom is the enlargement of your liver, spleen, or gallbladder. You may also have more general symptoms, such as: 1  chills and fever. 2  loss of appetite.