Several classes of drugs are used to treat HIV/AIDS. Some therapies combine multiple drugs into a single tablet. Each medication works to block and slow HIV’s progression. These medication prices are an average of estimated costs for both brand name and generic medications. These costs do not take into account any expense covered by health insurance or prescription drug insurance. 
Rx Savings Program. Save 15% or more on thousands of brand name and generic prescription drugs 1 by signing up for the Rite Aid Rx Savings Program. When you sign up, you’ll receive Rx Savings Card that gives you access to special discounts at Rite Aid pharmacy, including: 1  Savings of at least 15% on select brand name prescriptions 1. 2  A 30-day supply of select generics for $9.99 and a 90-day supply for $15.99 1. 3  Select generic oral contraceptives for $19.99. To find out which generic medications are covered by the Rite Aid Rx Savings Program, please download the complete generic drug list. This program may be especially helpful if you don’t have insurance or your insurance doesn’t cover all of your prescriptions. Speak with your local pharmacist to sign up. Find a Store.
Look for additional discounts. All chain and big-box drugstores offer discount generic-drug programs, with some selling hundreds of generic drugs for $4 a month or $10 for a three-month supply. Other programs require you to join to get the discount
Today, acetaminophen can be found in many generic and store-brand versions. Similarly, many drug products, prescription and over-the-counter, have generic versions available. An estimated 44 percent of all prescriptions in the United States are filled with generic drugs. New drugs are developed by innovator firms. 
Grocery-store pharmacies and independent drugstores sometimes charge higher prices in urban areas than in rural areas. For example, our shoppers found that for a 30-day supply of generic Actos, an independent pharmacy in the city of Raleigh, N.C., charged $203. A store in a rural area of the state sold it for $37. All chain and big-box drugstores offer discount generic-drug programs, with some selling hundreds of generic drugs for $4 a month or $10 for a three-month supply. Other programs require you to join to get the discount
Successful AIDS programmes, such as those in Brazil and Thailand, have only been possible because key pharmaceuticals were not patent protected and could be produced locally at much lower cost. For example, when the Brazilian Government began producing generic AIDS drugs in 2000, prices dropped. AIDS triple-combination therapy, which costs US$ 10 000 per patient per year in industrialized countries, can now be obtained from Indian generic drugs company, Cipla, for less than US$ 200 per year. 
If all HIV patients in the U.S were to take generic forms of medications it would cut the total cost of treating them by nearly $42,500 per person. This would amount to savings of around $1 billion for the country as a whole. The advantage of generic drugs is that they are significantly more cost effective than brand-name alternatives, they played a crucial role in the U.S. government's plan for AIDS relief in over 15 countries, helping to save millions.