i just wanted a quote on refacing using laminate cabinets and counter tops. the cost would be $13,350 from home depot. both sears and lowes said thats the cost of a remodel job with new appliances, flooring and top of the line cabinets and granite countertops.. Home Depot came in at $28,000.00 for 36 ft of cabinet doors in cherry wood, and a Starin synthetic counter-top. They are running a 20% discount and a $200.00 military discount to take it down to the $20K price. I am getting a 2nd estimate based on your comments here.
Resurfacing kitchen cabinets, also called refacing, essentially means giving your existing cabinets a facelift that transforms their look, style and texture without the hassle, cost and mess of gutting and replacing them. 
Spent 2700 for the refacing on my kitchen. The total # of cabinets are around 25 & a pantry door, refacing outside with Cherry color and inside with pale yellow. The cabinets hardware(handles are bought up my me in the Homedepot) are fixed for free. Home Depot came in at $28,000.00 for 36 ft of cabinet doors in cherry wood, and a Starin synthetic counter-top. They are running a 20% discount and a $200.00 military discount to take it down to the $20K price. I am getting a 2nd estimate based on your comments here.
In most cases, refacing is the superior choice to gutting your kitchen and installing all new cabinets. Not only will this save a lot of time and mess, but it will also save you about half the cost of new custom cabinetry. Since your choice of new cabinet doors is included, this means that eighty percent of what everyone sees in your kitchen will be brand new.
Refacing a kitchen with wood will cost from 10 percent to 25 percent more than RTF and laminates, and it can be done in oak, maple, cherry, birch, walnut or almost any other wood a customer wants. Wood veneers are the most expensive option and will need to be carefully sealed to protect against moisture. Hardware replacement (handles, knobs, etc.) is going to be the least expensive part of your refacing project. Very basic cabinet handles range between $5 and $15 each at your local hardware store.
Cabinet refacing is a cost-effective way to give your kitchen a whole new look by replacing cabinet door and drawer fronts and veneering the exterior of the cabinet boxes. Your kitchen layout stays the same and the cabinets stay in place, so you avoid the inconveniences associated with major renovation and demolition. 
For a basic 250 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Refinish Kitchen Cabinets ranges between $2.52 - $3.68 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. Cost to Refinish Kitchen Cabinets-Notes and General Information. Homewyse cost estimates are ballpark ranges for basic work performed in normal, serviceable conditions. The estimates should only be used for preliminary planning. Homewyse estimates are NOT substitutes for firm quotes from qualified vendors.
1 Refacing the cabinets in a typical kitchen starts around $1,000-$3,000 for rigid thermofoil (RTF) or plastic laminate and $2,500-$6,000 for real wood veneer (about 1/4-inch think), although costs can rise to $7,000-$9,000 or more for a large project with high-quality wood veneer. Home Depot came in at $28,000.00 for 36 ft of cabinet doors in cherry wood, and a Starin synthetic counter-top. They are running a 20% discount and a $200.00 military discount to take it down to the $20K price. I am getting a 2nd estimate based on your comments here.
Refinishing vs. Replacing. The average cost of a complete cabinet installation is just over $5,600. That's a big investment for just one part of a kitchen remodel. On the other hand, refinishing falls somewhere in the $400-$900 range depending on location. This is much more manageable to the homeowner on a budget. 