Oliver /oliv-er/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced AH-lih-ver. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Oliver is olive tree. Name of one of Charlemagne's knights in the 12th-century poem Chanson de Roland. Also possibly from Alfihar (Old German) host of elves or Olafr (Old Norse) ancestor. Biblical: the olive tree is a symbol of fruitfulness, beauty, and dignity. Oliver is a very prominent first name for males (#319 out of 1220, Top 26%) and also a very prominent last name for all people (#248 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Oliver for boys. Oliver reached its peak rank of #32 in the U.S. in 2014.
From Olivier, a Norman French form of a Germanic name such as ALFHER or an Old Norse name such as Áleifr (áleifr SEE). Olaf the spelling was altered by association With latin oliva olive. tree 
Oliver is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 6 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced O-li-ver. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 32 in baby name popularity for boys with 9365 occurrences. The name Olivier is a form of Oliver. Oliver has the diminutives (nicknames) Oli, Ollie. Oliver falls into the name categories classic, song, tree. Some famous bearers of this name include: Oliver Cromwell.
The name Oliver is of English origin, and it means Elf army . It's a name commonly given to boys. Olly Murs is a singer-songwriter and presenter specializing in pop and R&B music with the most prominent portion of his career being from 2 to present. 
Oliver is a form of the name Olivier. The name Olivier is a form of Oliver. Oliver has the diminutives (nicknames) Oli, Ollie. Oliver falls into the name categories classic, song, tree. Some famous bearers of this name include: Oliver Cromwell.
Notes: Oliver is a name with English origins. Contrary to popular belief, the meaning of Oliver is Elf Army. The name has nothing to do with olives or olive trees. It originates from the Germanic name Alfher composed of the elements alf (elf) and hari (army/warrior). The most common nickname for Oliver is Ollie.
What does Oliver mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Oliver is of Latin origin. The meaning of Oliver is olive tree. It is also of English origin, where its meaning is elf army. The name Olivier is a form of Oliver. Oliver has the diminutives (nicknames) Oli, Ollie. Oliver falls into the name categories classic, song, tree. Some famous bearers of this name include: Oliver Cromwell.
See also the related form, Olivia (English, German, and Italian). Oliver is popular as a baby boy name, and it is also viewed as trendy. The name's popularity has been rising since the 1960s. At the recent peak of its usage in 2012, 0.292% of baby boys were given the name Oliver. It was #73 in rank then.
English Meaning: The name Oliver is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Oliver is: The olive tree. The biblical olive tree symbolizes fruitfulness and beauty and dignity. 'Extending an olive branch' signifies an offer of peace. French Meaning: The name Oliver is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Oliver is: The olive tree. The biblical olive tree symbolizes fruitfulness and beauty and dignity. Extending an olive branch signifies an offer of peace. German Meaning: The name Oliver is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Oliver is: Elf army. Can also be a Relic, ancestral heritage. Latin Meaning: The name Oliver is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Oliver is: Olive (symbol of peace); peaceful