Jerky is lean meat that has been trimmed of fat, cut into strips, and then dried to prevent spoilage. Normally, this drying includes the addition of salt, to prevent bacteria from developing on the meat before sufficient moisture has been removed. After the jerky is dried to the proper moisture content to prevent spoilage, it is cooled, then packaged in (often resealable) plastic bags, either nitrogen gas flushed or vacuumed packed. To prevent the oxidation of the fat, the sealed packages often contain small pouches of oxygen absorber.
Jerky is a food that dates right back as far as ancient Egypt. In America in the heyday of the Wild West, cowboys would cut strips of meat from any animal that was too big to eat all at once, such as bear, buffalo, or whale, and hang them up to dry in the sun. The word Jerky comes from the Spanish word for jerked meat charqui. English speaking people heard this word and changed it to a word that was easier for them to pronounce jerky. Jerky is a nutrient-dense meat that has been made lightweight by drying.
Traditionally, jerky is long, thin strips of meat (most commonly beef) that is salted and sun-dried. Native Americans have long used this drying process to preserve meats and fish for winter or traveling. The meat was often reconstituted to create hearty soups and stews, and this concept still works. Answer: Our forefathers dried meats and seafood into jerky as a matter of necessity, to preserve the food for long periods without refrigeration. Nowadays, we consider jerky as a convenience food, perfect for hikers, campers, or just an easy, non-messy snack.
Because of the necessary low fat and moisture content, jerky is high in protein. A 30 g (about 1 oz) portion of lean meat, for example, contains about 7 g of protein. By removing 15 g of water from the meat, the protein ratio is doubled to nearly 15 g of protein per 30 g portion. After the jerky is dried to the proper moisture content to prevent spoilage, it is cooled, then packaged in (often resealable) plastic bags, either nitrogen gas flushed or vacuumed packed. To prevent the oxidation of the fat, the sealed packages often contain small pouches of oxygen absorber.
Beef Jerky and Gourmet Jerky. Beef Jerky is what we specialize in, but our service is what keeps us in business. Jerky.com carries the widest selection of USA made jerky and jerky gift baskets for every budget and every taste preference. Our goal is to provide every customer with the best selection of beef jerky products and unique snacks. We're also the premier jerky site for exotic jerky such as Elk Jerky, Kangaroo Jerky even fish jerky as well as meat sticks. We provide a user-friendly site with a checkout process that guarantees every transaction to be fast, safe and secure.
Any particular preparation or recipe for jerky typically uses only one type of meat. Around the world, meat from domestic and wild animals is used to make jerky. Meats from domestic animals include bovine, pork, goat and mutton or lamb. Wild animals including deer, kudu, springbok, kangaroo, and bison are also used. After the jerky is dried to the proper moisture content to prevent spoilage, it is cooled, then packaged in (often resealable) plastic bags, either nitrogen gas flushed or vacuumed packed. To prevent the oxidation of the fat, the sealed packages often contain small pouches of oxygen absorber.
When you first put a piece of beef jerky into your mouth it will feel dry, but when you begin chewing, it will re hydrate and quickly take on the feel of eating regular beef, but with a different flavour, depending upon the marinate used during the initial stages of preparation. The word Jerky comes from the Spanish word for jerked meat charqui. English speaking people heard this word and changed it to a word that was easier for them to pronounce jerky. Jerky is a nutrient-dense meat that has been made lightweight by drying.
Beef jerky is one of the quintessential road foods. Great for long car trips, camping, and anywhere you need a snack where you will also surely be tired of potato chips and red vines. There really are no two beef jerkies that are completely alike -- like beautiful snowflakes but made of meat. 
Directions. Trim the flank steak of any excess fat, place in a zip-top bag, and place it in the freezer for 1 to 2 hours in order to firm up. Remove the steak from the freezer and thinly slice the meat with the grain, into long strips. Place the strips of meat along with all of the remaining ingredients into a large, 1-gallon plastic zip-top bag and move around to evenly distribute all of the ingredients. Place the bag into the refrigerator for 3 to 6 hours. Remove the meat from the brine and pat dry. Evenly distribute the strips of meat onto 3 of the air filters, laying them in the grooves and then stacking the filters on top of one another.