However, please check with your state's bar association for the specific requirements for a law license. If you have additional questions about the professional requirements for becoming a lawyer, consider speaking with an attorney near you. Understanding what is required of lawyers before they may legally practice law may help you find a qualified attorney (or decide whether or not to enter the legal profession yourself). See FindLaw's Guide to Hiring a Lawyer for related resources, including Researching Attorney Discipline and State Bar Associations.
A bachelor's degree, then go to law school for about 3 years (if  you attend full-time)..then pass the bar.  You need a law degree in most states and then you  need a license to practice law. The only 'training' in most places  is what you get on the job. + 72 others found this useful. You begin your journey to becoming a lawyer by enrolling in university....any major if fine. There are no formal pre-law courses. By your second year in university you are per … mitted to write the LSAT (Law School Admissions Test).
A: To become a criminal lawyer, you need to first attend law college and acquire a law degree. Many law colleges offer law programs with specialization in criminal law. Once you have acquired at law degree in this field, the next step would be taking the bar examination in your state and earning a professional license. A: To become a lawyer you have to earn a law degree. There are many law schools that offer law degree programs. You can opt for law degrees such as the Juris Doctor degree and the master degree in law. A bachelor degree will be required to qualify for admission in any law school
The next step in how to become a lawyer is to apply for law school. Law school considers several factors in admission. You need a high LSAT score, a strong undergraduate transcript and a strong personal statement explaining your objectives in pursuing law school. A: To become a lawyer you have to earn a law degree. There are many law schools that offer law degree programs. You can opt for law degrees such as the Juris Doctor degree and the master degree in law. A bachelor degree will be required to qualify for admission in any
The Texas Board of Law Examiners requires that you graduate from an ABA-approved law school in order to become a bar member. The first step in this process is to pass the LSAT, or Law School Admission Test, as this test is necessary to be admitted into any ABA-approved law school. 
A: No. You cannot become a lawyer with a Bachelors in Psychology degree. It may help you to have an added degree in the field of Psychology or even Psychoanalysis. However, to be a lawyer in the United States, you need to have a degree in law, along with a license issued by the Bar Association in your state. A: To become a lawyer you have to earn a law degree. There are many law schools that offer law degree programs. You can opt for law degrees such as the Juris Doctor degree and the master degree in law. A bachelor degree will be required to qualify for admission in any law school
An admission to practice law is acquired when a lawyer receives a license to practice law. In jurisdictions with two types of lawyer, as with barristers and solicitors, barristers must gain admission to the bar whereas for solicitors there are distinct practising certificates. 
In order to get into an American Bar Association-accredited law school, you must first take the LSAT (Law School Admission Test). Once you get your score, you can apply … to law school. Once you complete law school, you have to take the Bar Examination of the state that you want to practice in. You begin your journey to becoming a lawyer by enrolling in university....any major if fine. There are no formal pre-law courses. By your second year in university you are per … mitted to write the LSAT (Law School Admissions Test).
You cannot practice law or call yourself an attorney without first meeting the professional requirements for becoming a lawyer. These are numerous and range from meeting educational standards and performing successfully in a bar exam, to clearing moral character and background checks. Understanding what is required of lawyers before they may legally practice law may help you find a qualified attorney (or decide whether or not to enter the legal profession yourself). See FindLaw's Guide to Hiring a Lawyer for related resources, including Researching Attorney Discipline and State Bar Associations.