Its reach is global. The public health field confronts global health issues, such as improving access to health care, controlling infectious disease, and reducing environmental hazards, violence, substance abuse, and injury. It spans many disciplines and is regularly spotlighted in popular culture and media.
community health nursing, a field of nursing that is a blend of primary health care and nursing practice with public health nursing. 
Related policy areas: Social care and National Health Service. Public health is about helping people to stay healthy, and protecting them from threats to their health. The government wants everyone to be able to make healthier choices, regardless of their circumstances, and to minimise the risk and impact of illness.
Definition of Public Health Nursing. Public health nursing is the practice of promoting and protecting the health of populations using knowledge from nursing, social, and public health sciences.
n a field of medicine that deals with the physical and mental health of the community, particularly in such areas as water supply, waste disposal, air pollution, and food safety. public health authority, n a governmental agency responsible for matters of public health. Etymology: L, publicus, of the people; AS, haelth. a field of medicine that deals with the physical and mental health of the community, particularly in such areas as water supply, waste disposal, air pollution, and food safety.he field of health science that is concerned with safeguarding and improving the physical, mental, and social well-being of the community as a whole. The united states public health service (USPHS) is a federal health agency that is part of the United States Department of Health and Human Services.
CDC is our nation's premier public health agency. The CDC is the nation's disease prevention and wellness promotion agency, protecting people's health and safety, providing credible information to enhance health decisions, and improving health through strong partnerships.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: public health (Noun). The science and practice of community hygiene; includes preventive medicine, health education, sanitation and environmental safety.
the field of health science that is concerned with safeguarding and improving the physical, mental, and social well-being of the community as a whole. The united states public health service (USPHS) is a federal health agency that is part of the United States Department of Health and Human Services.
Full Definition of PUBLIC HEALTH. : the art and science dealing with the protection and improvement of community health by organized community effort and including preventive medicine and sanitary and social science. See public health defined for English-language learners.ADVERTISEMENT.
Public health refers to the science and art of preventing disease, prolonging life and promoting health through organized efforts and informed choices of society, organizations, public and private, communities and individuals.. It is concerned with threats to health based on population health analysis.he focus of public health intervention is to improve health and quality of life through prevention and treatment of disease and other physical and mental health conditions. This is done through surveillance of cases and health indicators, and through promotion of healthy behaviors.