If so I want one. What do you feed them onsmall fish are part of their diet no, sorry, fish are not part of the Cray diet! cray are Omnivores not hunting carnivores. problem with fish and cray stem from the keepers not the nature of the Cray. the only 'blue lobster' legal in the UK is the Cherax Quad.
Most lobsters are a greenish brown color like the small one in the picture. Sometimes, but not very often, lobsters are blue like the bigger one in the picture. They can also be yellow, or white, or even more than one color. A lobster of any color (except white) will turn red when you cook it. Lobsters like to eat crabs, clams, mussels, starfish, smaller fish, and sometimes even other lobsters. A lobster does have teeth — but they are not in its mouth, they are in its stomach. The food is chewed in the stomach between by what look like three molars. These are called the “gastric mill”.
The American lobster, Homarus americanus, is a species of lobster found on the Atlantic coast of North America, chiefly from Labrador to New Jersey. It is also known as true lobster, northern lobster, or Maine lobster. It can reach a body length of 64 cm (25 in), and a mass of over 20 kilograms (44 lb), making it not only the heaviest crustacean in the world, but also the heaviest of all living arthropod species.
The Hammers Cobalt Blue Lobster is one of the most striking ornamental crayfish you'll ever see. It will add an amazing splash of brilliant blue color that's sure to draw attention to your freshwater aquarium. The coloration of this blue beauty intensifies as it matures. QUICK STATS. 
(a video of a lobster being fed). A common myth about lobsters is that they are scavengers and will eat whatever they can find lying on the ocean floor including dead carcases and feces. This is not true as lobsters actually prefer to dine on live prey. 
Crawdad or Crayfish) you should can feed them shrimp pellets, which you can purchase at a petstore. I have about 5 crawfish and I feed them little fish and shrimp pellets. The shrimp pellets seem to be the best thing to feed them. For the hermit crabs I recommend that you give them an enviroment that is semi-arid. Fill a 10 gallon tank with about 1-2 inches of sand that should be a sufficient bedding. 
What do you feed them on small fish are part of their diet. If so I want one. What do you feed them on. the only 'blue lobster' legal in the UK is the Cherax Quad. These grow to aorund 1 ft and require a tank or 4ft long when full grown due to there size and rigid body. they prefer it cooler than most fish with 77 being the maximum suggested temperature to keep them in. What do you feed them onsmall fish are part of their diet no, sorry, fish are not part of the Cray diet! cray are Omnivores not hunting carnivores. problem with fish and cray stem from the keepers not the nature of the Cray
Krill bloodworms, mysis, all excellent choices. they do/should eat some veg. freeze dired, frozen, or pellet is up to you but there should be a variety. to the extent of my knowledge lobsters are nocturnal and probably will try to stay hidden in the corner as long as they can see you. 
The blue lobster that is found in aquarium hobby is actually not a true lobster, but rather a blue color crayfish. For the purpose of this article, I will refer to them as blue lobster. Like its name suggest, the Blue lobster is blue in color and shades of blue vary from bright electric blue to a duller bluish white. Other then their unique coloration, they are highly similar to other crayfish and lobsters