Mariachi began as a regional folk style called “ Son Jaliscience ” in the center west of Mexico originally played only with string instruments and musicians dressed in the white pants and shirts of peasant farmers. Another is the encouragement of female mariachis including all-female Mariachi groups such as Mariachi Mujer 2000 and Mariachi Divas de Cindy Shea. Mariachi Mujer has performed with Mexican artists such as Vikki Carr, Pablo Montero, Gerardito Fernandez and Nydia Rojas.
Listen. Throughout the world, mariachi is a recognized symbol of Mexico. For Mexicans it is the musical accompaniment to life's most important moments: it forms a vital part of courtship and family events such as weddings, birthdays, baptisms, and funerals. This is the emblematic sound of Mexico, which reaches into the hearts of its listeners evoking the history and traditions of Mexico. The vihuela, a small, high-pitched five string guitar with a rounded back, and the guitarron, a stout guitar-shaped bass, are two of the distinctive instruments that are essential to a mariachi troupe. A traditional mariachi would also have at least two violins and possibly a harp.
A mariachi costume is all about style, the elegance of the suit and the decoration with embroidery made sometimes with silver or gold threads. Sometimes it also includes silver or gold ornamental buttons and instead of a bolero tie, a man might wear a large red bow on his chest. Pepe Aguilar in Mariachi Attire. At first mariachi clothing was made of cotton and also wool, and they use to wear a hat made of straw or palm. Then in the early twenties as they became members of an orchestra, they began to appear in a Charro suit. Charro is the name given to Mexican cowboys.
Mariachi Costume. A mariachi costume is the typical suit used by mariachi bands which is the traditional street music ensemble in Mexican culture. Pepe Aguilar in Mariachi Attire. At first mariachi clothing was made of cotton and also wool, and they use to wear a hat made of straw or palm. Then in the early twenties as they became members of an orchestra, they began to appear in a Charro suit. Charro is the name given to Mexican cowboys.
The typical folk music used in most Mexican dances is called sones, and they are characterized by joyful music of true Mestizo origins. Jarabes is the name given to a type of dance characterized by flirting between a man and a woman. 
Nowadays, current mariachi bands have variations in the color of their costumes. They normally wear white or black suits. Black is used for ceremonies such as weddings or funerals, and white for beach parties or day events. Pepe Aguilar in Mariachi Attire. At first mariachi clothing was made of cotton and also wool, and they use to wear a hat made of straw or palm. Then in the early twenties as they became members of an orchestra, they began to appear in a Charro suit. Charro is the name given to Mexican cowboys.
Mariachi History. Mariachi music started as rural music among the farmers on the Mexican countryside, and as such it was a very humble musical genre with the musicians dressed in the white shirts and pants that were common among the farmers of the time. If you are joining a mariachi band, or arranging a costume for a special production or party, make sure you get the many parts of the mariachi uniform correct.
Mariachi. Mariachi is a type of musical group, originally from Mexico, consisting of at least two violins, two trumpets, one Spanish guitar, one vihuela (a high-pitched, five-string guitar) and one guitarron (guitarrón a-small scaled acoustic), bass but sometimes featuring more than twenty. musicians 
Mariachi: A Mariachi band is a Mexican musical group consisting of four or more musicians that wear charro suits. Mariachi is said to have originated in the state of Jalisco, in the city of Cocula, near Guadalajara, as well as surrounding states of western Mexico. Mariachi is now popular throughout Mexico and the Southwest United States, and is considered representative of Mexican music and culture. A charro is a Mexican cowboy from the state of Jalisco. The charro suit that mariachis wear consists of a waist-length jacket, bow tie, fitted pants, short boots and a wide-brimmed sombrero. The suits are elaborately decorated with silver or gold buttons and embroidered designs. Where to Hear Mariachi Music: