Location: Oxford. Posts: 4,637. A refund usually takes 1-3 days to credit your account, around the same length of time it takes to debit (remember, the store doesn't get the money when you pay until approximately day 3/4 and doesn't get charged for the refund until day 3/4 either). 
Solving the world's problems. . . one answer at a time. Many credit card companies have in their terms that they have the right to take 3 to 4 weeks to credit your account with a refunded amount. So the merchant may have processed the refund but your credit card company will take 3 - 4 weeks to accept it. This is so they can hit you with balance charges. 
Re: how long take refund to post back to.debit card. Hi tbroxton, it may depend on the type of debit card you have. I recommend calling customer service at 1-800-869-3557. They can access your account information in a secure manner in order to give you an answer. 
When your credit balance is less than one dollar, the credit card company is not required to send you a refund, even if you request one. If the credit balance remains on your account for more than six months, the credit card company must make a good faith attempt to refund it to you. If you request a refund check by mail, your credit card company is required, by law, to mail it to you within seven business days of receipt of your letter. If you have a large credit balance, the credit card company may take extra time to verify why there is such a large credit before issuing the check.
5 Answers. Jeff 0 It took 3 days for the credit to show up in my credit card statement. From what I've read elsewhere it seems like the average is about 3 days for money to be refunded and recorded in your credit card statement. May 20th, 2012 at 4:26 PM Reply. Susie 0 In general, it may take up to 5 to 7 business days for a credit to show up on your credit/debit/bank card statement. 0. Aug 29th, 2012 at 3:51 PM. Reply. Batman. It is normally between 3-7 days depending on where you live and what bank it is obviously these factors do come into it but it should be 3-7 days
It is very common for a credit/refund to take up to 6 or 8 weeks to be processed. It always takes longer to get a refund than it does for them to take the money. Where i used … to prefer virtual credit cards for online transaction. 12 people found this useful. Many credit card companies have in their terms that they have the  right to take 3 to 4 weeks to credit your account with a refunded  amount. So the merchant may have proces … sed the refund but your  credit card company will take 3 - 4 weeks to accept it. This is so  they can hit you with balance charges
It usually takes only two to three business days for a credit card refund to go through, but if the refund is processed on the weekend or over a bank holiday, it could take up to one week. If it is a refund from a returned retail purchase, the process should take no longer than one week. If the refund is coming from the credit card company because of a disputed credit card purchase, the process could take months.
Only then will the money reappear on your credit card account. Reasons for Delay. Every organization or business involved in the process has its own policy about when it will issue refunds. The merchant policy might issue a refund within 24 hours, or it could wait weeks. Nike, for example, gives itself 30 days to issue refunds. So, if you were waiting for a Nike refund, you'd wait 30 days plus the time it takes for the bank to apply it to your account. 
Report Abuse. No it usually takes 48 hours (at least) to refund onto your card. But-It depends on the bank. Phone them and ask them. I would also suggest to sign up for Internet banking, as is a brilliant way of managing your account. Hi, I have just got a credit card last week and I bought something from Topman on the Wednesday, and took it back the next day, my card doesn't offer internet banking, so I called today to ask if the money had been refunded and they said yes it went through on Thursday but the balances don't seem to add up,...