Where is Colombia located on the world map? The given Colombia location map shows that Colombia is located in the northwestern part of South America continent. Colombia shares its international boundaries with Venezuela and Brazil in the east, Ecuador and Peru in the south, and Panama in the northwest. 
LOCATION AND SIZE. Shaped like an odd-looking pear with a thin top, Colombia is located in the northwestern corner of South America, alongside the Caribbean Sea between Panama and Venezuela, and bordering the Pacific Ocean between Panama and Ecuador. With the fifth-largest area in Latin America in terms of size, Colombia is one-ninth the size of the United States, and is approximately the same size as the United Kingdom, France, and Germany combined. The capital city, Bogota, bogotá is located in the center of the country in a mountainous. setting
Colombia located in the northwest side of South America is officially called the Republic of Colombia. This country is bordered by Brazil and Venezuela in the east, Panama in the northeast and Peru and Ecuador in the south. Caribbean Sea in the north and North Pacific Ocean in the west are its coastal boundaries. Colombia occupies a total area of 1,138,910 Sq. Km. making it the 26th largest country of the world.
The Republic of Colombia is located in the northwestern region of South America, bordering to the east with Venezuela and Brazil; to the south with Ecuador and Peru; to the North with the Atlantic Ocean, through the Caribbean Sea; and to the west with Panama and the Pacific Ocean. The Andean range is located in Colombia from the southwest (Ecuador border) toward the northeast (Venezuela border) and is divided in the Colombian Massif (Macizo Colombiano) in three ranges (East Andes, Central Andes and West Andes) that form two long valleys, Magdalena and Cauca follow by the rivers of the same name.
The capital city, Bogota, bogotá is located in the center of the country in a mountainous. Setting, Topographically colombia is divided into 4: regions the central, highlands The caribbean, lowlands The pacific, lowlands And Eastern (colombia east of The andes). mountains With the fifth-largest area in Latin America in terms of size, Colombia is one-ninth the size of the United States, and is approximately the same size as the United Kingdom, France, and Germany combined. The capital city, Bogota, bogotá is located in the center of the country in a mountainous. setting
Location of Bogota on a map. Bogota is the capital city of Colombia. It has a population of 7,674,366, and is located on a latitue of 4.61 and longitude of -74.08. Bogota is also the political center of Colombia, which is considered a Republic, and home to its Executive head of state. Located in the continent of South America, Colombia covers 1,038,700 square kilometers of land and 100,210 square kilometers of water, making it the 26th largest nation in the world with a total area of 1,138,910 square kilometers. Colombia became an independent state in 1819, after gaining its sovereignty from Spain.
Colombia is bordered to the northwest by Panama; to the east by Venezuela and Brazil; to the south by Ecuador and Peru; it established its maritime boundaries with neighboring countries through seven agreements on the Caribbean Sea and three on the Pacific Ocean. Ecologically, Colombia is considered one of the world's 17 megadiverse countries, and of these, the most biodiverse per square kilometer.
The Map showing where is Bogota location in Colombia. Bogota is the most populous city of the country, which has about 7,304,384 citizens. Surprisingly, it is the third highest capital city of the world after La Paz-Bolivia and quito-Ecuador because it is situated at the elevation of 2625 meters above Sea Level. As shown in the given Bogota location map that Bogota is located in the central-west region of Colombia. It is the capital city