This is a brand page for the PETWARE trademark by Medical Management International, Inc. in PORTLAND, OR, 97213. Write a review about a product or service associated with this PETWARE trademark. 
Banfield Pet Hospital is a privately owned company based in Portland, Oregon, United States, that operates veterinary clinics. Part of the Mars, Incorporated family of companies, Banfield owns clinics in the United States, Mexico, and the United Kingdom. Founded in 1955, the company operates many of its 800 plus clinics inside PetSmart stores. Banfield is the largest privately owned veterinary practice in the United States. On April 2, 2014, Banfield Pet Hospital announced its headquarters would be relocating to Vancouver, Washington. Banfield was founded in northeast Portland, Oregon, in 1955 by Warren J. Wegert. The name comes from the nearby Banfield Freeway. In 1987, Scott Campbell purchased the single veterinary hospital which had about $2 million in annual revenues.
Medical Management Associates provides planning, management, and design services to thousands of physicians and other health care providers throughout the Southeast and in many other areas of the country. 
The company also provides emergency care services that include emergency stabilization, laboratory testing and X-rays, wound and fracture care, treatment for ... Medical Management International, Inc., doing business as Banfield Pet Hospital, owns and operates veterinary hospitals. To contact Medical Management International, Inc., please visit www.banfield.com. Company data is provided by Capital IQ. Please use this form to report any data issues.
Medical Management International (MMI) has the best interests of our furry and feathered friends at heart. As the world's largest pet-specific veterinary hospital operator, the unit of candy giant. 1 Build customized email lists 24/7, based on your best customer profile. 2  Learn more about the companies you want to sell to. 3  Hoover’s has reports on 85+ million companies and 900 industries. 4  65,000 data points are updated each day.
Medical case management is a collaborative process that facilitates recommended treatment plans to assure the appropriate medical care is provided to disabled, ill or injured individuals. Medical case management requires the evaluation of a medical condition, developing and implementing a plan of care, coordinating medical resources, communicated healthcare needs to the individual, monitors an individual’s progress and promotes cost-effective care.
Welcome to International Health Management, LLC and thank you for taking a few moments to familiarize yourself with us. We have been in the international health care business since 1986. Over these years we have seen and been a part of a growing global awareness of the needs of people, our responsibilities toward one another and a world of challenges and ... opportunities. 
Appropriate Care. HSM, Inc. is a specialty healthcare management services company providing specialty healthcare networks and cost management solutions to health plans, third-party administrators, health insurance, and workers' compensation carriers. Healthcare Cost Management. HSM, Inc. is a specialty healthcare management services company providing specialty healthcare networks and cost management solutions to health plans, third-party administrators, health insurance, and workers' compensation carriers.
Welcome to GMMI. GMMI is a leading ISO 9001:2008 certified provider of cost containment and medical risk management solutions. At GMMI, we have been setting the industry standard for quality customer service, medical management, and competent claims administration since our inception in 1992. And we do it better than any other company. 