1 Adjust oven rack to lowest position; heat to 425 degrees. 2  Cut onions in half; toss with oil and a generous sprinkle of salt and pepper. 3  Place, cut-side down, on a lipped cookie sheet. 4  Roast until tender and cut surfaces are golden brown, 25 to 30 minutes.
1 Cut onions in half; toss with oil and a generous sprinkle of salt and pepper. 2  Place, cut-side down, on a lipped cookie sheet. 3  Roast until tender and cut surfaces are golden brown, 25 to 30 minutes. 4  Adjust seasonings; drizzle with balsamic vinegar.
Instructions. 1  Preheat oven to 425°F. 2  Coat a large baking sheet with cooking spray. 3  Place peppers and onion in a large bowl; coat with cooking spray. 4  Add oil, rosemary or thyme, salt and pepper; toss to coat. 5  Spread vegetables in a single layer on prepared baking sheet. 6  Roast for 10 minutes and then stir vegetables.
Preparation. 1  Wash, quarter peppers, discarding seeds and membrane. 2  Peel and cut onions into quarters. 3  Toss all with 2 T olive oil and season with salt. 4  Spread in single layer on cookie sheet and roast at 375 for 45-60 minutes, turning several times to roast evenly. 5  Remove from oven and cool slightly.
Directions. 1  Heat oven to 375° F. In a roasting pan, toss the onions, oil, 1/2 teaspoon salt, and 1/2 teaspoon pepper. 2  Push the onions to the edges of the pan. 3  Season the beef with 1 teaspoon each salt and pepper and place in the center
Coat a large baking sheet with cooking spray. Place peppers and onion in a large bowl; coat with cooking spray. Add oil, rosemary or thyme, salt and pepper; toss to coat. Spread vegetables in a single layer on prepared baking sheet.
Preheat oven to 475 degrees. Combine vegetables on a rimmed baking sheet; drizzle with olive oil, and season with salt and pepper. Toss to coat. Roast until vegetables are tender and browned in spots, 30 to 35 minutes.
Coat a large baking sheet with cooking spray. Place peppers and onion in a large bowl; coat with cooking spray. Add oil, rosemary or thyme, salt and pepper; toss to coat. Spread vegetables in a single layer on prepared baking sheet. Roast for 10 minutes and then stir vegetables.