Meaning of Olav. Norwegian name. In Norwegian, the name Olav means-derived from olaf, relic, ancestral heritage.The name Olav originated as an Norwegian name. The name Olav is most often used as a boy name or male name. Norwegian Name Meaning-derived from olaf, relic, ancestral heritage. Origin-Norway
Olav /olav/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Old Norse derivation, and the meaning of Olav is ancestor's relic. Olav is an alternate spelling of Olaf (Old Norse): a royal name in Norway. Olivi is a familiar last name. Kreatif forms: Oaolav, Olavoa, Olavvio. Olav is an equivalently rare last name too for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Popular alternative forms of Olav (not in Top 1000) listed in the Top 1000 are Olle, Olof, Olin, Ole, Olaf and Ola.
It is presumably of Proto-Norse origin, reconstructed as *Anu-laibaz, from anu ancestor, grand-father and laibaz heirloom, descendant. Old English forms are attested as Ǣlāf, Anlāf. The corresponding Old Novgorod dialect form is Uleb. In Norwegian, Olav and Olaf are historically equally common, but Olav is traditionally used when referring to Norwegian royalty of that name. The Swedish form is Olov or Olof. 
meaning the scandinavian name olav means a form of olaf rating 
Meaning & History. From the Old Norse name Áleifr áleifr meaning'ancestor s, descendant derived from the elements anu ancestor and leifr. Descendant this was the name of five kings Of, norway Including Saint (Olaf OLAF). ii From the Old Norse name Áleifr áleifr meaning'ancestor s, descendant derived from the elements anu ancestor and leifr. Descendant this was the name of five kings Of, norway Including Saint (Olaf OLAF). Ii Related. names
What does Olav mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Olav is of Danish origin. The meaning of Olav is heir. It is also of Norwegian origin, where its meaning is heir . It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced O-lav. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 boys given the name. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Olav Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Olav has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Olav to other names.
Olav is a rare first name for men. Olav is an equivalently rare last name too for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Popular alternative forms of Olav (not in Top 1000) listed in the Top 1000 are Olle, Olof, Olin, Ole, Olaf and Ola. Forms like Olaff are uncommo