1 Hydrocarbons contain a lot of energy. 2  Many of the things derived from crude oil like gasoline, diesel fuel, paraffin wax and so on take advantage of this energy. 3  Hydrocarbons can take on many different forms. 4  The smallest hydrocarbon is methane (CH 4), which is a gas that is a lighter than air.
The major classes of hydrocarbons in crude oils include: 1  Paraffins general formula: CnH2n+2 (n is a whole number, usually from 1 to 20) straight-or branched-chain molecules can be gasses or liquids at room temperature depending upon the molecule examples: methane, ethane, propane, butane, isobutane, pentane, hexane.
1 The smallest hydrocarbon is methane (CH 4), which is a gas that is a lighter than air. 2  Longer chains with 5 or more carbons are liquids. 3  Very long chains are solids like wax or tar. 4  By chemically cross-linking hydrocarbon chains you can get everything from synthetic rubber to nylon to the plastic in tupperware.
Hydrocarbons (General). Hydrocarbons [hydrocarbons: Hydrocarbons are a group of compounds which contain the elements hydrogen and carbon.] are: 1  compounds that contain only carbon atoms and hydrogen atoms. 2  obtained from crude oil by fractional distillation and can be classified into different groups.
Hydrocarbons are molecules that contain hydrogen and carbon and come in various lengths and structures, from straight chains to branching chains to rings. There are two things that make hydrocarbons exciting to chemists: 1  Hydrocarbons contain a lot of energy.
Hydrocarbons. Most of the compounds in crude oil are hydrocarbons. This means that they only contain hydrogen and carbon atoms, joined together by chemical bonds. There are different types of hydrocarbon, but most of the ones in crude oil are alkanes.
Ethylene and propylene, for example, come from crude oil, which contains the hydrocarbons that make up the monomers. The hydrocarbon raw materials are obtained from the cracking process used in refining oil and natural gas (see How Oil Refining Works).
A hydrocarbon contains only hydrogen atoms and carbon atoms. There are a large number of hydrocarbons, but the simplest is CH4 (methane). One important thing about hydrocarbons is that they are all flammable.