Vitamin A: Spinach is a great way to get vitamin A, important for eye and skin health, into your diet — a one-cup serving provides 56 per cent of your recommended daily intake (RDI). But kale is a vitamin-A powerhouse, giving you a whopping 206 per cent of your recommended intake for the same serving.
Spinach is a great way to get vitamin A, important for eye and skin health, into your diet — a one-cup serving provides 56 per cent of your RDI. But kale is a vitamin-A powerhouse, giving you a whopping 206 per cent of your recommended intake for the same serving.
Spinach also helps prevent the formation of cataracts in the eye. Lutein and zeaxanthin are powerful antioxidants that protect the eyes from UV radiation damage, particularly from exposure to sunlight, which is one of the leading causes of cataracts.
Green vegetables like spinach, kale and broccoli are particularly rich in two antioxidants called lutein and zeaxanthin, which produce a substance which scientists think helps protect the eyes against age-related macular degeneration (AMD), the leading cause of irreversible blindness in Western societies.
1. Spinach. To improve your eyesight, you must regularly eat spinach along with other green vegetables, such as kale, Swiss chard, turnips, mustard leaves and collard greens. Spinach contains a lot of nutrients including vitamin A, lutein and zeaxanthin that are good for the eyes.
What's more, spinach is also a good source of vitamin B 2 and beta-carotene. When the body has enough vitamin B 2, eyes are not easy to be bloodshot. And beta-carotene can be turned into vitamin A in the body, preventing dry eye disease.
Spinach and other dark, leafy greens are rich in two antioxidants stored in the macula—lutein and zeaxanthin. The macula is a part of the retina that acts as a natural sunblock, shielding the eye from damaging light.
Spinach is good for your eye. Spinach is known for its high fiber content and its abundance of antioxidants and vitamins that studies have shown might decrease the risk of stroke and developing cataracts.