If your iPhone is already plugged into the PC, you can also try this method: 1  Open “My Computer”. 2  Find the iPhone, it will appear as any other camera would. 3  Open iPhone to find your Photos. 4  Select the pictures you want to copy to your computer and copy/paste them into the desired location on your PC. Easiest way is to have a dropbox account. (Dropbox.com) once u set up an account u can put the app on your iphone. Its great cause u never have to connect your phone to your computer. It will just transfer you photos into a folder on your computer automatically when you want it to.
2. If you're using Windows, you can sync the photos on your device with iTunes on your computer. If you have multiple albums on your iPhone, it is recommended to place the individual folders into a larger folder. Requirement: iPhone, USB cable, a computer to plug the device into, iCloud, Wi-Fi. Requirement: iPhone, a computer to plug the device into, Dropbox, Wi-Fi. Requirement: iPhone, a computer to plug the device into, iPhone/iPod/iPad file transfer tool. Get It Now for $39.95 (Windows) Get It Now for $39.95 (Mac).
This is the easiest way to access and copy pictures from iPhone to a Windows PC: 1  Plugin your iPhone to the computer without iTunes running. 2  Wait for the AutoPlay popup asking you what you want to do with the device. 3  Select “View Content” or choose a device option like ‘Import pictures and videos’. Easiest way is to have a dropbox account. (Dropbox.com) once u set up an account u can put the app on your iphone. Its great cause u never have to connect your phone to your computer. It will just transfer you photos into a folder on your computer automatically when you want it to.
On a Windows PC the easiest way to get pictures from your iPhone is to just use Windows Explorer, but there are two ways to go about this. In either case, unlock the iPhone before beginning, or else the photos may not be visible. Easiest way is to have a dropbox account. (Dropbox.com) once u set up an account u can put the app on your iphone. Its great cause u never have to connect your phone to your computer. It will just transfer you photos into a folder on your computer automatically when you want it to.
• Select the pictures you want to copy to your computer and copy/paste them into the desired location on your PC. The Windows approach treats the iPhone more like a file system, but if you feel like it you can also use your favorite photo importing application to pull the pictures from the device as well. It also support iPad and all types of iPod. On a Windows PC the easiest way to get pictures from your iPhone is to just use Windows Explorer, but there’s two ways to go about this: • Plugin your iPhone to the computer without iTunes running. • Wait for a popup asking you what you want to do with the device.
1 Open iTunes on your computer. 2  Connect your iOS device to your computer. 3  Click on the device icon in iTunes. 4  Click the Photos tab. 5  Click the box next to Sync Photos from.. 6  If instead you see iCloud Photos is On, all your photos and videos are already stored in iCloud. 7  Learn more about iCloud Photo Library. You can sync photos to your device from an app on your computer, or from a folder on your computer. 1  Make sure you have the latest version of iTunes. 2  Open iTunes on your computer. 3  Connect your iOS device to your computer. 4  Click on the device icon in iTunes. 5  Click the Photos tab. 6
Windows 7 should see your connected iPhone as a Photo Camera. Just use the same software that you'd use for importing individual photos from a regular USB-connected camera. Also make sure to have your phone trust your computer by turning on the phone and selecting trust from the pop-up. 
Windows treats the iPhone as either a digital camera or a file system, depending on how the photos are accessed. On a Windows PC, the easiest way to get pictures from your iPhone is to just use Windows Explorer, but there are two ways to go about this. Requirement: iPhone, USB cable, a computer to plug the device into, iCloud, Wi-Fi. Requirement: iPhone, a computer to plug the device into, Dropbox, Wi-Fi. Requirement: iPhone, a computer to plug the device into, iPhone/iPod/iPad file transfer tool. Get It Now for $39.95 (Windows) Get It Now for $39.95 (Mac).
You can easily transfer Photos from your iPhone to your computer, and the process is very similar whether you are on a Mac or PC. The Mac treats the iPhone like a digital camera, and Windows can treat the iPhone as either a digital camera or a file system, depending on how the photos are accessed. Easiest way is to have a dropbox account. (Dropbox.com) once u set up an account u can put the app on your iphone. Its great cause u never have to connect your phone to your computer. It will just transfer you photos into a folder on your computer automatically when you want it to.
Features include: ► Easily transfer pictures and videos from your iPhone, iPad or iPod touch to your Windows or Mac Computer-You can now DELETE them after transfer on iOS8!! ► Upload photos and videos from your PC or Mac to your iPad, iPhone or iPod touch-Photos are saved to the 'Camera roll' album. 