Of course, a more detailed analysis would be one that takes into account the average capital cost to set up the place. The Cheesecake Factory stands out. Based on the chart above, we see that the average revenue per square foot generally concentrates around $534 for most casual dining restaurants. Cheesecake Factory Restaurant Inc. (CAKE) is an exception, boasting $887 per square foot a year, according to the company. Average revenue per square foot. To get a better picture of Darden’s business, we further looked into casual dining restaurants’ average revenue per square foot—the square feet of restaurants across primarily the United States and their guest traffic.
Well, it depends on what type of restaurant you have. Casual dining restaurants like Chili's or Applebees will average between $550 and 650. $2,800,000 / 4500 sq. ft Fast food chains like McDonalds and Chick-fil-a do better averaging about $1000 per foot. Of coarse it depends on your location. Here in North Eastern PA The average is $16-$20 per square foot, depending on the county, township, or city you are in. It costs roughly … $11-$13 for the materials and contractors average about $5-$8 per square foot for labor, not including steps. For example, my company charges approximately $18 per square foot to build a deck
Most entrepreneurs break down the cost of their restaurant into price per square foot. The typical establishment needs about 4,000 square feet, according to RestaurantOwner.com. Assuming you purchase land, expect to spend between $56 and $250 per square foot. If you opt to lease or rent space, your costs go down to $42 to $159 per square foot. Although not always necessary, accepting credit can boost sales, but you pay a fee for each transaction. Restaurants usually pay 1.8 and 2.5 percent of their credit sales to their credit card processor.
The Facts. A 2009 survey by Restaurant Startup and Growth Magazine found that the average owner spent $451,966 to get his restaurant up and running -- not including the acquisition of real estate. With a land purchase, the average total cost went to just over $700,00. If you opt to lease or rent space, your costs go down to $42 to $159 per square foot. Although not always necessary, accepting credit can boost sales, but you pay a fee for each transaction. Restaurants usually pay 1.8 and 2.5 percent of their credit sales to their credit card processor.
Full-service restaurants use servers to both take and deliver orders and often have a bar, which pushes up build-out costs significantly. Type of Restaurant Fast Food (all self service) Fast Casual (some table service) Full service Avg. Build-out Cost per Square Foot $63 $158 $192 Avg. A very rough calculation for storage in a restaurant is 1 square foot of dry food and paper goods storage per meal served per day plus about 1.5 cubic feet of usable refrigerated storage space per meal served per day.
Fast food restaurants have been one of the most heated commercial real estate investment sectors in 2014, with individual average restaurant property sale prices per square foot jumping 18% over last year. Of the nearly 775 fast food restaurant property sales of 2013 and 2014 analyzed for this story, sales of Burger King properties accounted for more than 80 of the deals. Wendy’s restaurants were the second most popular accounting for 66 sales.
In fast-food or other quick-service restaurants, which range in overall size from 1,375 to 4,250 square feet, the lion’s share of space is devoted to kitchen and storage areas. Seating space typically makes up less than 45 percent of the total area. 
The median cost for this commercial building type hovers around $100 per square foot. Because of the new trends in fast food being more boutique and less assembly line, the cost for a typical fast food restaurant is on the rise. It is here: http://evstudio.com/construction-cost-per-square-foot-for-office-buildings/. From that chart, you will see that LA is nearing $200 per square foot for up to four stories of office. That boils down to a $40M project in round approximate numbers.
In that case, the cost was closer to $40-$60 per square foot. And if the building itself has structural or MEP issues, you could easily wind up approaching a new construction cost per square foot of $100 or more. I hope that helps. It is here: http://evstudio.com/construction-cost-per-square-foot-for-office-buildings/. From that chart, you will see that LA is nearing $200 per square foot for up to four stories of office. That boils down to a $40M project in round approximate numbers.