How is a footballers transfer fees splited? From the fee for example Christiano Ronaldo was sold for 80 million pounds to Real Madrid, but the agent gets 10 percent of it and the player gets 10 percent, and the rest is … kept by Manchester United. Share to: From the fee for example Christiano Ronaldo was sold for 80 million pounds to Real Madrid, but the agent gets 10 percent of it and the player gets 10 percent, and the rest is … kept by Manchester United.
What percentage does a soccer players manager receive from a transfer fee? The percentage is divided this way, the player gets 10% the agent gets 10 % of the sale and the rest is kept by the selling club. Share to: From the fee for example Christiano Ronaldo was sold for 80 million pounds to Real Madrid, but the agent gets 10 percent of it and the player gets 10 percent, and the rest is … kept by Manchester United.
Can you tell me soccer player transfer rules?   The player must apply for a transfer first, then if allowed, the players agent can speak to the other club, then a price is fixed and then the club that wants the footba … ller will pay the transfer fee, and the agent gets his fee as well from them both. The percentage is divided this way, the player gets 10% the agent gets 10 % of the sale and the rest is kept by the selling club.
Its called Sell On Fee Percentage-Gives the player a percentage of any transfer fee team earns from a transfer. The contracts are ever evolving and changing. New clauses can be made up any time to protect interests of the clubs, players or agents. If a player has such a clause in his contract, he gets that percentage of the fee when the club sells him. This game is uber realistic, so I think the same answer is correct in real life.
Report Abuse. If a player asks for a transfer he gets nothing. If a player is sold as you would a cow or a sheep then the player gets 10% of the fee. Not bad if you are sold for £10m. Best Answer: It used to be that they got 10% of the transfer fee, not sure what the mark up is now? I suppose its up to the agent to negotiate that. They normally take a 10% cut of it as well.
In International Football.   The player must apply for a transfer first, then if allowed, the players agent can speak to the other club, then a price is fixed and then the club that wants the footba … ller will pay the transfer fee, and the agent gets his fee as well from them both. The percentage is divided this way, the player gets 10% the agent gets 10 % of the sale and the rest is kept by the selling club.
In professional football, a transfer is the action taken whenever a player under contract moves between clubs. It refers to the transferring of a player's registration from one association football club to another. In general, the players can only be transferred during a transfer window and according to the rules set by a governing body. Usually some sort of compensation is paid for the player's rights, which is known as a transfer fee.
4k Views. It all depends on the contract that the agent of the player can get. There are signing on bonus, loyalty bonus, promotion bonus(if teams gets promoted to a higher league) and other performance related bonuses (goal bonus, clean sheet bonus) apart from the weekly wage. If a player has such a clause in his contract, he gets that percentage of the fee when the club sells him. This game is uber realistic, so I think the same answer is correct in real life.
· just now. Report Abuse. no, unless there's a sign on fee which could be part of the actual transfer fee and an agent gets anything from 3%-10% i personally know a football player that players for crystal palace and hes agent gets 7%. hope that helps. Filipe Macedo · 5 years ago. Thumbs up