Fresh polyurethane can be walked on as soon as all signs of wet finish disappear. You may be able to walk on the floor as soon as two hours after applying WBP and eight hours after applying WBP. You should wait two days before moving furniture onto a floor finished with WBP -- four days for OBP.
According to research, it normally takes 4-6 hours for polyurethane finish to dry under normal conditions. Screening between coats is important. Go to www.nofma.org for the techinical manual on finishing wood floors. 04-09-05, 07:58 PM #6.
A: Typically 24 hours after the last coat is applied your floors should be dry enough to walk on and place furniture on. Even though the floors are dry the finish will still be soft therefore you must wait 10 to 14 days before you place any area rugs down. This will ensure your floor cures properly.
Stain was 6 days down and dry. I put urethane (water oil modified satin). I have white marks it looks like something spilled and ran at one time. The thing is the floor took the stain and the marks weren’t noticeable. With the urethane down these marks are very obvious.
We had the floors done and the guy said he put three coats on in one afternoon (approx. 3-4 hours probably less). Floors look fine for 3 or 4 months then started to fade. It is in the kitchen and the floors weren't great to start with and I will give him that. But he said he put three coats.
It should say on the can of polyurethane, how long it will take to cure (dry). To speed up the drying process, can you use a fan and some extra heat in that room? In the future, NEVER use oil base anything.
Oil based polyurethane takes longer to dry than water based poly. 1  24 hrs before you can walk on the floors. 2  Hours 24-48, you can walk on the floors with socks. 3  Avoid shoes and bare feet. 4  And, make sure your pets (who usually have bare feet) do not walk on the floors during this time. 5  48 hrs you can walk on it with shoes.
Water based polyurethane dries faster. 1  4-6 hrs before you can walk on the floors. 2  Hours 6-24, you can walk on the floors with socks. 3  Avoid shoes and bare feet. 4  And, make sure your pets don't walk on the floors during this interval. 5  1 hrs you can walk on it with shoes. 6  After 2 days, you can move furniture back.