Bluray players are backwards compatible so they will play standard DVDs as well as Bluray discs. Note that although the DVD is being played by a Bluray player, it does not make it HD quality. 
Blu-ray players are a good match for high-definition TVs, especially 1080p sets, which can display all the detail contained on Blu-ray discs. The picture quality is top-notch, the best currently available. Many new players can play 3D Blu-ray movies and regular high-def Blu-ray discs. The latest development: models that can upconvert 1080p high def to 4K when used with an Ultra HD TV.
Blu-ray players, which can play both high-definition Blu-ray discs and regular DVDs, are the best choice for use with an HDTV. If you're looking for information about Blu-ray players, Consumer Reports is your best resource. Consumer Reports’ Blu-ray player reviews will give you honest advice that you can trust. 3D-enabled Blu-ray players can play 3D Blu-ray discs as well as regular Blu-ray discs, DVDs, and CDs. Prices are dropping, and most brands now offer several models. Just remember that to view a 3D Blu-ray movie, you'll also need a 3D TV and special 3D glasses
Report Abuse. Yes you can play DVDs on a Blu-ray player. There is a huge difference between DVDs and Blu-rays. The most obvious one, of course, is that they are HD instead of standard defintion. Blu Ray players can play DVDs & CD's. Blu Ray discs are in HD resolution, which is about 3 times sharper than a DVD if you connect it to an HDTV. Computers can play Blu Ray discs only if they have Blu Ray drives, Fahim. Source(s):
Best Answer: Yes. Blu Ray players can play DVDs & CD's. Blu Ray discs are in HD resolution, which is about 3 times sharper than a DVD if you connect it to an HDTV. Computers can play Blu Ray discs only if they have Blu Ray drives, Fahim. Source(s):
A good number of 3D-capable Blu-ray players are now on the market. When used with 3D discs, 3D glasses, and a 3D TV, they enable you to see three-dimensional images. They can also play regular Blu-ray discs, DVDs, and CDs. The picture quality is top-notch, the best currently available. Many new players can play 3D Blu-ray movies and regular high-def Blu-ray discs. The latest development: models that can upconvert 1080p high def to 4K when used with an Ultra HD TV.
For TrueTheater 3D playbackYes, you can use regular DVD disc drive to play 2D DVD disc in 3D mode. Note: If the BD & 3D Advisor does not indicate that your disc drive is ready, but there is a Blu-ray Disc drive properly installed in your computer, please contact your disc drive manufacturer to update the firmware. 
These can be played on any dvd or bluray player The 3D TVs and disks employ an updated version of a technology pioneered by video console maker Sega in the late 1980, and uses IR or rf signals to sync special electronic lds shutter classes with interlaces images on the screen. Report Abuse. There are some 3D movies on DVD and Blue Ray that use the older color separation technique. These are the ones that include a set of paper and plastic 3D glasses with red and green lenses in the box with the disc.
Answer: The answer is NO. Although you can play a DVD in a Blu-ray Disc player, you cannot play a Blu-ray Disc in a DVD player. The reason that you cannot play a Blu-ray Disc on a DVD player is that Blu-ray Discs are embedded with more video and audio information than a DVD player is designed to read. On the other hand, the reason that a Blu-ray Disc player can play DVDs is that manufacturers decided to make sure that all Blu-ray Disc player include both blue and red laser assemblies, so that they can play both Blu-ray Discs and DVDs.