Every salary slip has lot of components like basic, HRA, PF etc. Every salary slip component falls in to five categories as shown in figure ‘Five categories’. Figure: - Five categories. On hand: - Salary components which you get on hand needs to be pushed in to this category. Some of the examples are basic, HRA etc. 
Its better you should have a look at your salary slip in the start of financial year and make arrangements for your tax saving and also family budget of expenses and saving towards goal. Understanding the CTC and salary break up is very important before you accept any new job. 1. Basic Salary: This is the most important part of a salary slip as many of the other components are structured around it. In many cases value of basic salary is taken to calculate the taxability of others. Basic salary is 100% taxable. 2
Employer PF is part of CTC but does not show up on your Salary Slip. If it NOT counted as part of your earnings and hence is not taxed. 1  Gratuity: 2  Again, forms part of your CTC and is added to your gratuity account annually. 3  It is paid at the rate of 4.81% of total yearly basic salary per year. 1 Gratuity: 2  Again, forms part of your CTC and is added to your gratuity account annually. 3  It is paid at the rate of 4.81% of total yearly basic salary per year. 4  Make sure you serve a company for at least 5 years to enjoy your Gratuity.
Salary, Net Salary, Gross Salary, Cost to Company are they same or different. For most people it is plain confusion especially when one gets a new job. The excitement of getting first job is punctured on getting the first pay. 
Let us look at a similar basic CTC salary structure format for companies like TCS, Infosys and BHEL. In the above salary slip the earnings represent cost to company. After you deduct all the above mentioned deductions, what you get is salary in hand. This is also called nett pay. There are two basic reasons because of which your salary may get reduced. 
Salary means gross pre-tax salary (CTC) inclusive of all components (monthly, annual, retiral and deferred payments). 3. Accuracy levels: It is our expectation that the salary indicator will be 90% accurate within a band of +/- 20% of the indicated salary figure i.e. 90% of persons will fall within the band. 
Before joining a workforce, many generally have a misconception that the actual take home salary is same as CTC. But in reality, there is huge difference between the two. Why CTC is different from pay slip. When Ankit rechecked the details he found that there are many components in CTC which he won't receive. It was explained to him that the employer's contribution to provident fund was part of the CTC but not of his salary. The same logic is applicable for the company's contribution towards employees' medical insurance as well. Income tax and professional tax also got deducted from Ankit's CTC.
The full form of CTC is Cost To Company. It is a term, which signifies the cost that a company would incur on you as an employee. The salary and other perquisites (benefits) that your company pays you, are actually cost for them and hence the term. 1 Gratuity: 2  Again, forms part of your CTC and is added to your gratuity account annually. 3  It is paid at the rate of 4.81% of total yearly basic salary per year. 4  Make sure you serve a company for at least 5 years to enjoy your Gratuity.
So, it includes basic salary, allowances, deductions, income tax, provident fund, overtime, and HRA etc. Exemptions should also be mentioned on the salary slip. In short, a salary slip provides complete details of your CTC to make the process transparent. 