The word placenta comes from the Latin word for cake, from Greek πλακόεντα/πλακοῦντα plakoenta/plakóenta, plakounta plakoúnta accusative/of πλακόεις/πλακούς, plakoeis, plakóeis-plakous, plakoús flat slab like in, reference to its round. flat appearance in humans The placenta provides oxygen and nutrients to growing babies and removes waste products from the baby's blood. The placenta attaches to the wall of the uterus, and the baby's umbilical cord develops from the placenta. The umbilical cord is what connects the mother and the baby.
If you have a retained placenta, it means that all or part of the placenta or membranes have stayed inside your womb (uterus) after the birth of your baby. Normally, your body expels the placenta and membranes after your baby is born, and they slide out easily through your vagina. 
(18 cm) in diameter, liberally supplied with blood vessels. Composed mainly of tissue that develops from the embryo beginning early in pregnancy, the placenta is attached to the uterus, and the fetus is connected to the placenta by the umbilical cord. 1. the vascular organ formed in the uterus during pregnancy, consisting of both maternal and embryonic tissues and providing oxygen and nutrients for the fetus and transfer of waste products from the fetal to the maternal blood circulation.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The placenta comes from cells that belong to the embryo and, therefore, is part of the embryo/baby. Since the placenta/uterine wall junction is the site of gas, nutrient, and waste exchange between the embryo's blood and the mother's blood, the blood supplies are totally separate, too
The placenta is composed of both maternal tissue and tissue derived from the embryo. The chorion is the embryonic-derived portion of the placenta. It is composed of fetal blood vessels and trophoblasts which are organized into finger-like structures called chorionic villi. Let's review. The placenta is the composite structure of embryonic and maternal tissues that supplies nutrients to the developing embryo. The placenta serves three main functions: 1  Attach the fetus to the uterine wall. 2  Provide nutrients to the fetus.
The placenta is composed of both maternal tissue and tissue derived from the embryo. The chorion is the embryonic-derived portion of the placenta. It is composed of trophoblasts, which you may remember are the cells that made up the outer cell layer of the blastocyst. Let's review. The placenta is the composite structure of embryonic and maternal tissues that supplies nutrients to the developing embryo. The placenta serves three main functions: 1  Attach the fetus to the uterine wall. 2  Provide nutrients to the fetus.
Answers. Best Answer: The placenta develops from the same sperm and egg cells that form the fetus, and functions as a foetomaternal organ with two components, the foetal part (Chorion frondosum), and the maternal part (Decidua basailis). Guaranteed correct. Source(s): Peter S · 8 years ago.
The basal plate, the peripheral region of the placenta on the maternal side that is in contact with the uterine wall, is made up of two tissues: embryonic tissue (cytotrophoblast, syncytiotrophoblast), on the one side, and of maternal tissue (decidua basalis) on the other. The fetal part of the placenta is made up of the chorionic plate with its placental villi, the cytotrophoblast layer and the intervillous spaces.