Biodegradable substances are those substances which decomposes by the action of micro-organisms. e.g.:- vegetable peel,tea leaves,etc. Non biodegradable substances are those … substances which do not decomposes by the action of micro-organisms. Inks with alcohol-or petroleum-based solvents dry by evaporation, usually assisted by heating the paper.  Newspapers are generally printed with a mineral oil ink at a very fast rate--several thousand feet per minute.
Here, we profile the growing market for eco-friendly inks and check out some of the industry's most innovative ways to improve ink's environmental credentials, from biodegradable and soy-derived inks to water-based techniques. Although packaging inks cover the full vivid spectrum of colour, there is one hue in particular which seems to be growing in importance for the printing and packaging industries: green.
The oil is usually mineral based and the pigments can contain heavy metals. This means that when card or paper rots and degrades in the soil the oil and pigments are left to pollute the environment. Modern biodegradable inks are based on vegetable oils such as Soya oil, sunseed oil or rapeseed oil. These are naturally biodegradable. Modern biodegradable pigments are based on yellow, red and blue primary colours. Inks have three basic components, varnish, oil and pigment. The pigment provides the actual colour, the oil allows smooth application of the colour and the varnish gives the final glossy finish. The varnish also protects the pigment from being rubbed away too easily or becoming cracked and damaged.
As opposed to traditional petroleum-based ink, soy-based ink is more environmentally friendly, might provide more accurate colors, and makes it easier to recycle paper. It is slower to dry than many inks. To make soy ink, soybean oil is slightly refined and then blended with pigment, resins, and waxes. Even though soybean oil is an edible vegetable oil, soy ink is not edible or 100% biodegradable because the pigments and other additives that are mixed with the oil are the same as those used in petroleum-based inks.
Compostability and biodegradability of printing inks is related to the environmental responsibility. “Compostability” in relation to printing inks for packaging has in any case to be seen in conjunction with the compostability of the substrate. 
The ever-improving performance of eco-friendly alternative ink is making waves in the printing and packaging world. Covering water-based and biodegradable inks and UV curing methods, Chris Lo finds out how the eco-friendly printing market is gradually turning ink green. Although packaging inks cover the full vivid spectrum of colour, there is one hue in particular which seems to be growing in importance for the printing and packaging industries: green.
To do that, let’s consider the three main components of offset ink for sheetfed printing: pigment, a vehicle, and additives. Pigments give the inks their colors and a vehicle is a moist substance, such as petroleum, water, soy or other vegetable oils, that eases the spread of pigments and provides more even color. Additives, such as waxes and distillates, help reduce set off and improve the ink’s performance on press. 
PVC is not convincingly eco-friendly even when biodegradable. Roland advertises “environmentally friendly, biodegradable PVC sign material.” This is sort of like calling a light solvent “eco”-solvent. Solvent ink is still solvent ink whether bio, or eco, or whatever. PVC is still PVC whether biodegradable or not. So I am not convinced by any of this. Worse, Roland now claims its UV ink is ECO-UV. Sorry, UV-cured ink may not have as many VOCs as solvent ink, but it is not a friendly ink in any respect. 