Another difference between the muscle cells, is that there are gap junctions in the cardiac cells, and these cells have independent contractions. The skeletal muscle has a common contraction called a synctium (and no gap junctions). 5.Unlike the skeletal muscles, there are gap junctions in the cardiac muscles, and their contractions function independently from each other. 6.There are only one or two nuclei in the cardiac muscle cells, while the skeletal muscle cells are multi-nucleated.
Cardiac muscle (heart muscle) is involuntary striated muscle that is found in the walls and histological foundation of the heart, specifically the myocardium. Cardiac muscle is one of three major types of muscle, the others being skeletal and smooth muscle. 
SIMILARITIES BETWEEN CARDIAC AND SKELETAL MUSCLES-Both cardiac and skeletal muscles are made up of elongated fibres which have numerous myofibrils. The myofibrils of cardiac muscle have the same structure as those skeletal muscle and are made up of actin and myosin filaments. SIMILARITIES BETWEEN CARDIAC AND SMOOTH MUSCLES-Both cardiac and smooth muscles are uninucleate containing nucleus at the centre and are involuntary in function. SIMILARITIE S BETWEEN CARDIAC AND SKELETAL MUSCLES 1  -. 
2.The skeletal muscles are attached to the bone, and the cardiac muscle is found in the heart. 3.Skeletal muscle cells are cylindrical in shape, whereas the cardiac muscle cells are semi-spindle in shape. 4.The skeletal muscle cells are longer than the cells of the cardiac muscle. 5.Unlike the skeletal muscles, there are gap junctions in the cardiac muscles, and their contractions function independently from each other. 6.There are only one or two nuclei in the cardiac muscle cells, while the skeletal muscle cells are multi-nucleated.
One of the main differences that can be seen is that cardiac muscles are involuntarily controlled, whereas the somatic nervous system controls the ovement of the skeletal muscles. Cardiac muscles and skeletal muscles are also different in their shape. While the cardiac muscles are semi-spindle, the skeletal muscles are cylindrical in shape. Another difference is that the cardiac muscles are short in comparison to skeletal muscles. 5. When the skeletal muscles are multi-nucleated, the cardiac muscles have one or two nuclei. In the case of endomysium and mitochondria, it is dense in cardiac muscles when compared to skeletal muscles. 6.
Your body is composed of three types of muscle: skeletal muscle, smooth muscle, and cardiac muscle. Skeletal muscle makes up 40 percent of your total body weight, and smooth muscle and cardiac muscle each make up 5 percent of total body weight. Your muscles must contract in order to facilitate vital bodily functions. 
cardiac and skeletal muscles have one thing in common, that is they are both striated in contrast to the smooth muscles commonly found in the GIT. however the main diffe … rence between them is that cardiac muscles function involuntarily while skeletal muscles are under conscious control. Skeletal muscles are striated and are the muscles that are in voluntary control. These include biceps(arm), pectoralis major(chest) and other muscles that you can move. These muscles are striated and has many nuclei. Smooth muscles are not striated and are the muscles that are not
When the skeletal muscles are multi-nucleated, the cardiac muscles have one or two nuclei. In the case of endomysium and mitochondria, it is dense in cardiac muscles when compared to skeletal muscles. Moreover, the mitochondria in cardiac muscles have more blood vessels. 5. When the skeletal muscles are multi-nucleated, the cardiac muscles have one or two nuclei. In the case of endomysium and mitochondria, it is dense in cardiac muscles when compared to skeletal muscles. 6.
cardiac and skeletal muscles have one thing in common, that is they are both striated in contrast to the smooth muscles commonly found in the GIT. however the main diffe … rence between them is that cardiac muscles function involuntarily while skeletal muscles are under conscious control. Skeletal muscles are voluntary muscles, meaning that they are used in actions which a person consciously controls, such as lifting a dolphin or biting into a book. Smooth muscles are used in involuntary actions, which a person doesn't consciously control, like digesting food.
Cardiac Muscle in vertebrates is only found in the heart. It is striated as mentioned before. Differences: The muscles cells are branched, and the junctions between the cells contain intercalated discs that electrically connects all heart muscle cells, allowing coordinated action. Cells can also generate their own action potential