Dormancy. Lilies grown as houseplants, such as the peace lily, need a period of dormancy each year. During this time, the leaves turn yellow, the plant produces no new flower buds, and the lily can look bedraggled, like it is dying. This is natural and can happen during the winter or when you repot a houseplant lily. Water. Too much or too little of this natural resource can cause leaf yellowing. If you notice yellow leaves on an indoor or outdoor lily, touch the soil. If the soil feels dry and dusty, you're probably not watering the plant enough. If the soil feels slushy or boggy, you're giving the lily far too much water.
My calla lily is turning yellow and losing all of the leaves. They are bending in the middle and drooping. I water it weekly and the soil is moist but not wet. 
I have heard from friends that plant leaves turn yellow as a result of too much water. The rule was yellow leaves, too much water. . . brown leaves, not enough water. I have experienced this in other plants. I transplanted mine in a container and watered it once. It was droopy Saturday. Now sunday morning it is upright but my two bottom leaves are yellow
Hello Judy, I have a Calla Lily Plant at work, and I left for a week in my co workers care. When I came back, all the leaves were down and turning yellow. When I asked my co-worker what happened, they said they put some 7up to feed the plant. I don’t think it liked it 7up, but since it worked on whatever plant they have, they tried it on the Calla Lily Plant.
Information on this page is about: 1  What to Do When Calla Lily Stop Blooming. 2  Calla Lilies Turning Brown on Edges. 3  Calla Lily Seeds. 4  Care for Calla Lilies After Bloom. 5  Planting Calla Lily Indoors. 6  Why Are My Calla Lily Leaves Yellow. 7  Caring and Watering. The rule was yellow leaves, too much water. . . brown leaves, not enough water. I have experienced this in other plants. I transplanted mine in a container and watered it once.
By Anne Baley. The leaves of a healthy calla lily are a deep, rich green. If your houseplant or garden list includes calla lily, yellowing leaves can be a sign that something is wrong with your plant. A calla lily turning yellow can be an indication of a number of problems, but most of them are easily fixed. If your biggest plant problem is, “My calla lily leaves are yellowing,” you should look beneath the soil for the answers. Yellow leaves are a sign of problems in the roots of the plant, for a number of different reasons.
Treating yellow leaves on calla lily plants involves dealing with the actual planting environment. If possible, dig up the plants and transfer them to a spot with well-drained soil, preferably a raised bed. Plant the rhizomes carefully to avoid injury, and never over water the plants once they have been established. If your biggest plant problem is, “My calla lily leaves are yellowing,” you should look beneath the soil for the answers. Yellow leaves are a sign of problems in the roots of the plant, for a number of different reasons.
Another mistake that causes yellowing leaves on a calla is adding cow manure to the soil. This product causes a salt overdose in the soil. The leaves turn yellow and curl. Your best bet is to remove the plant and plant it in a new area or pot in fresh potting soil. Care Issues Causing Yellowing Leaves. Calla lily leaves may turn yellow when it is transplanted. This happens if the plant suffers transplant stress. As the root system develops in the new location, the plant will produce new leaves and you can cut off the yellowed leaves. Wind can also cause calla leaves to yellow. Plant it in a protected, sunny spot