Pain in the legs may be due to injury or inflammation of any of the structures that are found in the leg, including bones, joints, muscles, tendons, ligaments, blood vessels, nerves, and skin. Inflammation of tissues is usually the cause of pain. Pain can also radiate from other parts of the body and be felt in the leg. 
Overview. Lower leg muscle pain can arise with a variety of abnormalities and conditions. The causes commonly involve the muscle tissue itself or the blood vessels and other structures associated with the muscles. Many causes of lower leg muscle pain are temporary and quickly resolve with home treatment. In some cases, lower leg muscle pain may indicate a medical emergency. Severe or rapidly increasing lower leg muscle pain warrants urgent medical evaluation.
This article focuses on conditions that cause a true loss of strength in the leg muscles. Among the most common causes for leg weakness is sciatica, problems with the spinal cord that lead to pinching or compression of the nerves as they exit the spinal cord through the holes between the vertebrae of the backbone. 
Other causes for muscle atrophy include: 1  lack of physical activity (for any reason). 2  aging. 3  alcohol-associated myopathy (pain and weakness in muscles due to excessive drinking over long periods of time). 4  burns. 5  injuries and broken bones. 6  malnutrition. This can happen when a disease or injury makes it difficult or impossible for you to move an arm or leg. You may have muscle loss if one of your limbs appears smaller (not shorter) than the other. Schedule a physical exam to determine the cause of the loss. Your doctor will determine what treatment you need.
The most common reason for atrophy to occur in the legs is disuse. Lack of activity for any reason -- illness, injury, seated desk job, sedentary lifestyle -- can lead to loss of leg muscle. Alcoholism and malnutrition can also inhibit muscle growth and cause the body to use muscle proteins for energy. Muscle loss also occurs as part of the natural aging process. A less common cause of atrophy of the leg muscles is injury or illness affecting the nerves that connect to the muscles. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Guillain-Barre syndrome, neuropathy and polio are examples of nerve disease.
Muscle atrophy is when muscles waste away. The main reason for muscle wasting is a lack of physical activity. This can happen when a disease or injury makes it difficult or impossible for you to move an arm or leg. You may have muscle loss if one of your limbs appears smaller (not shorter) than the other. Schedule a physical exam to determine the cause of the loss. Your doctor will determine what treatment you need.
Lower leg pain: Causes and treatments. Pain in the lower legs may be something that can be treated at home, or it may be a sign of a more serious medical conditions. A lot depends on what is causing the lower leg pain and the symptoms. Seek medical advice if you have concerns. These are some of the more common causes of lower leg pain from problems with blood vessels: Blood clot. A blood clot that develops in a vein deep in the body is called deep vein thrombosis (DVT). Most deep vein blood clots develop in the lower leg or thigh.
WebMD Symptom Checker helps you find the most common medical conditions indicated by the symptoms loss of balance, muscle weakness, numbness or tingling (arm) and numbness or tingling (leg) including Peripheral neuropathy, Lack of exercise, and Hypocalcemia. 
Pain in the legs can occur as a result of conditions that affect bones, joints, muscles, tendons, ligaments, blood vessels, nerves, or skin. Typically, the pain is a result of tissue inflammation that is caused by injury or disease. Either injury or chronic disease can cause inflammation to any of the tissues of the leg and lead to leg pain. Diabetic neuropathy (nerve damage) is a common cause of tingling and numbness in the legs that can at times be painful. For diagnostic and therapeutic purposes, it is important to differentiate the exact type and location of any pain in the legs. Blood clots (deep vein thrombosis) can be another cause of leg pain.