Koh Lipe is a small island in the Southern part of the Thai Andaman Sea. It is famous for it's white sandy beaches, crystal clear water and abundant marine life. 
Koh Lipe is located 60 km from mainland Thailand, the closest pier is in the town of Pak Bara. Koh Lipe is the most Southern island in Thailand. If your on Koh Lipe on a clear day you can see Langkawi Island in Malaysia, which is just only 30 km away. Koh Lipe is part of the Adang Archipelago, a cluster of about 10 uninhabited islands in which Koh Lipe is the only inhabited island. Two of the most popular day trips from Koh Lipe are Program 1 and Program 2. You can also hire a private longtail boat for the day to take you wherever you would like to go. You could also rent a mask & snorkel right from your hotel, and snorkel right from your beach.
Ko Lipe (Thai: เกาะหลีเป๊ะ) is a small island in the Adang-Rawi Archipelago of the Andaman Sea, in Satun Province of southwest Thailand, close to the Malaysian border. The Thai name is transliterated in many different ways into English. The most common names are Koh Lipe, Koh Lipeh, Ko Lipey, and Ko Lipe. Ko Lipe is on the border of the Tarutao National Marine Park and is directly south of the larger islands Ko Adang and Ko Rawi, and about 50 km from the island of Ko Tarutao. In low season (May to October) the only way to get to Ko Lipe is by speedboat from Pak Bara. From Langkawi, Malaysia there are two speedboats per day (from November until May). These boats dock at the south end of Pattaya Beach. Other ferries are met by longtail boats offering transfers to anywhere on Ko Lipe.
Outdoor lovers will be pleased to know that you can do camping at Koh Lipe. However, there are various styles available, the hard core camping at Koh Adang or Koh Rawi or the resort assisted camping where resorts arrange a spot in their land for you to do camping there. You can check with the operators about this. If you have never been to Koh Lipe before, just a heads up as the island is really small. This means you can walk from one end to the other end in under 30 minutes. The island is so laid back, there are no cars or roads here. Only bikes the locals use here.
1 Koh Lipe Thailand is a popular vacation destination with much to offer. 2  Have a memorable time at Koh Lipe Beach Resort, the authentic Thai beach resort on the beautiful Koh Lipe Island,Thailand. 3  The Resort features 41 stand-alone bungalows in a tropical setting. 1 Tropical Charters [6] operates ferries from Koh Lipe to Langkawi (Kuah jetty) twice per day during the high season (until 19th of April 2015) at 11am and 4pm from Koh Lipe and 9.30am and 2.30pm from Langkawi.
The laid back beach life. If you have never been to Koh Lipe before, just a heads up as the island is really small. This means you can walk from one end to the other end in under 30 minutes. The island is so laid back, there are no cars or roads here. Only bikes the locals use here.
Trip at Koh Lipe is offering all tourists the best experience. You can see much more than the white sand beaches. There are many attractions with amazing natural features. Most of tourists will stay on Koh Lipe and hire long tail boat for a great trip. You should stay at least 3 days 2 nights for having enough time to go around and see all main attractions. For 3 day, 2 nights trip, the first arrival date, you can spend your half day at the pure white sand beaches. At night, you can enjoy your fresh seafood and end your 1st day at nice local coffee shops, bars, or spa shops, etc. Wake up in the morning on 2nd day to explore all Koh Lipe's
As this is one of the last remaining beautiful unspoiled islands in the south of Thailand, many may be wondering what are the things to do in Koh Lipe and here is a list that island and beach lovers can do while visiting this stunning island in the Andaman Sea. If you have never been to Koh Lipe before, just a heads up as the island is really small. This means you can walk from one end to the other end in under 30 minutes. The island is so laid back, there are no cars or roads here. Only bikes the locals use here.
1 The nearest airport to Koh Lipe is Hat Yai. 2  The cheapest and easiest way to get from Bangkok to Koh Lipe is fly to Hat Yai airport, then minibus/taxi to Paka Bara cost 250 baht, and then at Paka Bara you can get on a ferry to Koh Lipe for 650 baht. Two of the most popular day trips from Koh Lipe are Program 1 and Program 2. You can also hire a private longtail boat for the day to take you wherever you would like to go. You could also rent a mask & snorkel right from your hotel, and snorkel right from your beach.
Island Tour. Coming to Koh Lipe there are some things that you must see and must do an island tour, quite simply, tops the list. 1  Koh Taratao Many years ago koh tarutao was a real life Alcatraz for political prisoners. Sea Kayaking is a great way to explore Koh Lipe at your leisure. Depart the shores of Pattaya paddling around the horn. Park at one of the two island pinnacles off Sunrise beach and enjoy one of the Lipe's best snorkel spots. 1  Fishing Koh Lipe boasts some of southeast Asia's best fishing.