A plant's roots are the parts that allow a plant to use the nutrients that the worms provide. Roots help plants grow, and then earthworms eat the leftover parts of plants and the cycle starts all over again! There are several different kinds of roots. Some plants have many roots and some just have a few. 
The purpose of a plants roots are to extract water and minerals from the ground. The leaves absorb sunlight and CO2 so that they can make their own food using photosynthesis. … The stem contains and stores most of the water for when the plant needs energy and keeps the plant upright. 16 people found this useful. 
The fruit? When weeat asparagus, we are eating the stem of the plant. When we eat spinach orlettuce, we are eating the plant’s leaves. We eat the fruit of squash, cucumberand tomato plants. When we eat corn or peas we are eating seeds, and whenwe eat radish or carrot, we are eating roots. Cauliflower and broccoli plantsproduce flowers we like to eat.With some plants we eat more than one part. The root of the beet plant is what mostpeople like to eat, but the leaves are also good to eat. We can eat beet leaves in saladswhen the leaves are young and tender. When they get bigger, they taste better cooked.We usually eat the root of the onion plant. We eat the root of the onion plant but can also eat thestems, for a milder flavor.Some of the plants we eat are poisonous—if we eat the wrong part.The leaves of tomato plants are poisonous. For many years peoplewould not even eat tomatoes, because they thought the entire plant waspoisonous.
Insects that Attack Plant Roots. Insects that attack the roots of plants, destroy those plants' ability to gather nutrients. They are are also highly destructive of root crops and are a major problem in lawn care. Control by hand-picking is impossible. However, most are subject to an organic means of attack. 
e-mail. A. Voles (think V for vegetarian) attack plant roots and parts.Moles (think M for meat or carnivorous) attack grub worms and earthworms. You know a vole has eaten your plant when there's no root system to support the plant and it topples over if you merely touch it. You will also see small holes with pushed-up soil near the base of the plant. Small gravel, or products called perlite and Vole-Bloc, can be used to deter voles
Some bugs are eating our plants' roots and killing them!! Hi-There are these bugs that are wreaking havoc in our small flower garden in the front yard-they first ate the roots of a hedge plant (attached pic on right) and finished a chaste plant next.
Root Maggot Lifecycle. Vegetable root maggots are the larva of a type of fly called a root maggot fly. There are several kinds with different preferred host plants. The eggs of these root eating insects are laid in the soil and hatch into larva. The larva are the little worms you see on the roots of your plant. The larva will come to the surface to pupate and then they are adults who will start the process all over again. Eggs can survive the winter in the soil.
While taking some shots in the backyard found a mole eating plant root and pulling it inside his tunnel, it's funny but if the plants were vegetables like potato or carrots will be distraction machine and lose all the farm in couple days. 