1 To conserve battery life, completely power off the Zune. 2  To do this, simultaneously hold down the Back (left) button and the center touch pad. 3  After approximately five seconds, the screen will go blank and your Zune is completely powered off. 1 After approximately five seconds, the screen will go blank and your Zune is completely powered off. 2  If the Zune does not turn on when pressing Play/Pause, check the Hold switch located at the top of the device. 3  If the Hold switch is pink, the Zune is locked. 4  Flip the switch and attempt to turn on the device again.
1 To put the Zune in hibernation mode, hold down the Play/Pause button until the screen shuts off. 2  Hibernation mode does not completely power off your Zune. 3  This mode allows the device to turn on faster, but continues using battery power. 4  To conserve battery life, completely power off the Zune. 1 After approximately five seconds, the screen will go blank and your Zune is completely powered off. 2  If the Zune does not turn on when pressing Play/Pause, check the Hold switch located at the top of the device. 3  If the Hold switch is pink, the Zune is locked. 4  Flip the switch and attempt to turn on the device again.
Turn on a Zune HD by pressing the On/Off button at the top of the player. If you have an original Zune model, turn it on by holding down the Play/Pause button below the screen. Related Reading: How to Update a License on a Zune Without Syncing. Step 3. Slide your finger quickly from the bottom of the screen to the top to unlock the Zune HD player. Connect the included USB cable to your Zune player, then connect the other end of the cable to your computer to begin charging the battery. It takes up to three hours for a dead battery to fully charge, but you can operate the player after about 30 minutes of charging. Step 2.
It also doesn’t have a power button, which is why many users are confused about how to turn this player on and off. In order to turn on the original Zune player, all you need is to make sure the hold switch is in the unlocked position and then press the Play/Pause button. To turn off your original Zune player, all you have to do is press and hold down the Back button and Down button. The device will then shut off. Zune HD. The Zune HD is the updated version of the original Zune player. Unlike the original, it has a touchscreen, as well as updated controls. 
Tips & Warnings. 1  To put the Zune in hibernation mode, hold down the Play/Pause button until the screen shuts off. 2  To conserve battery life, completely power off the Zune. 3  If the Zune does not turn on when pressing Play/Pause, check the Hold switch located at the top of the device. 1 After approximately five seconds, the screen will go blank and your Zune is completely powered off. 2  If the Zune does not turn on when pressing Play/Pause, check the Hold switch located at the top of the device. 3  If the Hold switch is pink, the Zune is locked. 4  Flip the switch and attempt to turn on the device again.
Lock. The Zune features a locking feature, which prevents the accidental pressing of buttons. With the lock enabled, the Zune won’t respond to your attempts to turn on the device. Sliding the Hold button to the unlock position and pressing the Play/Pause button disables the lock and enables you to turn on your Zune. If you own a Zune HD, then you must press the On/Off button and then slide your fingertip across the screen to disable to the lock. Related Reading: How to Eliminate a Zune Account. A depleted battery prevents the device from doing anything. To charge the battery, you must connect the Zune to a power source using the USB cable provided. Allow the battery to charge at least 30 minutes before disconnecting and turning on the player. If the player turns on, then reconnect it to the power source to charge the battery completely
Before you use your Zune, you need to charge it by connecting it to a computer. Once you've charged the Zune, turn it on and start enjoying your music and apps. Step 1. Connect the included USB cable to your Zune player, then connect the other end of the cable to your computer to begin charging the battery. It takes up to three hours for a dead battery to fully charge, but you can operate the player after about 30 minutes of charging. Step 2.
It also doesn't have a power button, which is why many users are confused about how to turn this player on and off. In order to turn on the original Zune player, the user needs to make sure the hold switch is in the unlocked position and then press the Play/Pause button. Charge the Zune Player. If both of the methods given above fail to turn on the Zune player, then it is possible that the battery has run out of charge. In this case, the user must charge the Zune player for at least 30 minutes to restore charge to the battery.
How to Turn on the Zune HD. The Zune HD is the updated version of the original Zune player. Unlike the original, it has a touchscreen, as well as updated controls. The power button of the Zune HD is located on the top of the player. Charge the Zune Player. If both of the methods given above fail to turn on the Zune player, then it is possible that the battery has run out of charge. In this case, the user must charge the Zune player for at least 30 minutes to restore charge to the battery.