Lassie is an American television series that follows the adventures of a female Rough Collie dog named Lassie and her companions, both human and animal. The show was the creation of producer Robert Maxwell and animal trainer Rudd Weatherwax and was televised from September 12, 1954, to March 25, 1973. Filming for the series began in the summer of 1954, and Lassie made its debut Début, Sunday september, 12, 1954 at:7 00.p. M, est a time slot the show would call home ON cbs for the next seventeen. years
Published in 1940, Knight's novel was filmed by MGM in 1943, as Lassie Come Home with a dog named Pal playing Lassie. Pal then appeared with the stage name Lassie in six other MGM feature films through 1951. Pal's owner and trainer Rudd Weatherwax then acquired the Lassie name and trademark from MGM and appeared with Pal (as Lassie) at rodeos, fairs, and similar events across America in the early 1950s.
The fictional character of Lassie was created by English American author Eric Knight in Lassie Come-Home, first published as a short story in The Saturday Evening Post in 1938 and later as a full-length novel in 1940. Pal's owner and trainer Rudd Weatherwax then acquired the Lassie name and trademark from MGM and appeared with Pal (as Lassie) at rodeos, fairs, and similar events across America in the early 1950s.
Edit. All the Lassies were actually male dogs because female collies tend to blow coat (go through a massive hormone-induced shedding process) with each heat cycle. While males blow coat as well in reaction to a change in season, it is much less noticeable than what occurs with an intact female. 
Lassie. Lassie is a fictional female collie dog character created by Eric Knight in a short story expanded to novel length called Lassie Come-Home. However, Knight may have been influenced by another female collie named Lassie, featured in the 1859 story The Half-brothers written by British writer Elizabeth Gaskell. 
Lassie. Lassie is back! The world's most famous Collie returns to a new family and new adventures. Timmy-a young boy in a new town-befriends Lassie, beginning a magical friendship that will tug on your heartstrings and quicken your pulse! A solid update of the classic original TV series, Lassie is good clean fun for the whole family. Saturdays & Sundays 9:30AM/7:30AMc. Check TV Listing
Lassie is a fictional female collie dog character created by Eric Knight in a short story expanded to novel length called Lassie Come-Home. However, Knight may have been influenced by another female collie named Lassie, featured in the 1859 story The Half-brothers written by British writer Elizabeth Gaskell. The Half-brothers is a short, sentimental story in which a female border collie named Lassie, loved only by her young master, saves the day. Pal's owner and trainer Rudd Weatherwax then acquired the Lassie name and trademark from MGM and appeared with Pal (as Lassie) at rodeos, fairs, and similar events across America in the early 1950s.