However, temperature is not a direct measurement of heat. Scientifically it is the measurement of the average kinetic energy of the particles contained in a substance. Each substance is made of particles and the speed at which these particles move determines the kinetic energy. Temperature is an indication of the measure of how hot or cold a particular substance is. Temperature is a physical property of a substance. It can be measured using a thermometer. A conventional thermometer contains mercury in a thin vial and is marked with a scale which helps a person read the temperature of a given object
Temperature is a measure of how hot or cold something is; specifically, a measure of the average kinetic energy of the particles in an object, which is a type of energy associated with motion. When we measure an object's temperature, we measure the average kinetic energy of the particles in the object. The higher the temperature, the faster the molecules of the substance move, on the average. Dyes will spread more rapidly through hot water than cold water.
Heat is the total energy of molecular motion in a substance while temperature is a measure of the average energy of molecular motion in a substance. Heat energy depends on the speed of the particles, the number of particles (the size or mass), and the type of particles in an object. 
DEFINITION: (For this website usage): Temperature: A measure proportional to the average translational kinetic energy associated with the disordered microscopic motion of atoms and molecules. The flow of heat is from a high temperature region toward a lower temperature region. 1 About Temperature Disponible en espanol. 2  Temperature, when measured in Kelvin degrees, is a number that is directly proportional to the average kinetic energy of the molecules in a substance. 3  So, when the molecules of a substance have a small average kinetic energy, then the temperature of the substance is low.
Heat and temperature are related, but not the same. Temperature is a measure of the average kinetic energy of the particles of a substance. The higher the temperature of an object, the higher is its kinetic energy. Kinetic energy is a type of energy associated with motion. Temperature is measured with thermometers, which are devices that use the expansion of a substance to give an indirect measure of temperature. When we measure an object's temperature, we measure the average kinetic energy of the particles in the object. The higher the temperature, the faster the molecules of the substance move, on the average. Dyes will spread more rapidly through hot water than cold water.
Temperature is the average kenetic energy of each perticle within an object. It can be measured in degrees celsius or degrees Fahrenheit using a thermometer a thermometer … can measure temprature in celsious    a thermometer    Temperature is a degree of hotness or coldness the can be measured using a thermometer. Temperature is a measurement of how hot or cold something is. (usually the air, or a piece of food). So it could be called a measure of heat. Or it could be called a measure o … f cold.
1 Temperature: A convenient operational definition of temperature is that it is a measure of the average translational kinetic energy associated with the disordered microscopic motion of atoms and molecules. 2  The flow of heat is from a high temperature region toward a lower temperature region. 1 About Temperature Disponible en espanol. 2  Temperature, when measured in Kelvin degrees, is a number that is directly proportional to the average kinetic energy of the molecules in a substance. 3  So, when the molecules of a substance have a small average kinetic energy, then the temperature of the substance is low.
The degree Celsius is used to measure temperature. It is named after the Swedish astronomer, Andres Celsius, who devised the Celsius scale in 1742. Originally called centigr … ade, two reference temperature are used: The freezing point of water (0 degree Celsius); andThe boiling point of water (100 degree Celsius). Temperature is a measurement of how hot or cold something is. (usually the air, or a piece of food). So it could be called a measure of heat. Or it could be called a measure o … f cold.