Muscle twitching, also known as muscle fasciculation, is marked by small muscle contractions in the body. Your muscles are composed of fibers, tissues, and nerves. When a nerve is stimulated or damaged, it may cause your muscle fibers to twitch. Many twitches experienced in your body are common and may go unnoticed.
Sometimes the heart enlarges and becomes weak for unknown reasons (idiopathic). A heart condition you're born with (congenital), damage from a heart attack or an abnormal heartbeat (arrhythmia) can cause your heart to enlarge. Other conditions associated with an enlarged heart include: High blood pressure. Your heart may have to pump harder to deliver blood to the rest of your body, enlarging and thickening the muscle. High blood pressure can cause the left ventricle to enlarge, causing the heart muscle eventually to weaken. High blood pressure may also enlarge the upper chambers of your heart (atria). 1  Heart valve disease.
1. Stimulus-exercise is needed to make the muscles work, use energy and cause microscopic damage to the fibers. 2. Nutrition-after intense exercise the muscles need to replenish their stores of fuel. 3. Rest-it is during the rest or recovery phase that the muscles repair the microscopic damage and grow.
1 This can cause an enlarged left ventricle due to weakening of the heart muscle. 2  Rare diseases that can affect your heart, such as amyloidosis. 3  Amyloidosis is a condition in which abnormal proteins circulate in the blood and may be deposited in the heart, interfering with your heart's function and causing it to enlarge.
The elliptical will not cause stomach muscles to get bigger, but it can give the appearance of a larger tummy if you have poor posture. Rounded shoulders, a kyphotic upper back, increased lordosis or even a swayback can cause your stomach to protrude and give the appearance of a round, potbelly tummy.
There are six muscles involved in controling eye movement and a number of conditions can cause them to become enlarged. The most common cause is probably thyroid eye disease, which is associated with Graves disease of the thyroid.