According to Merriam-Webster, a propellant is a gas under pressure in a can that is used to spray out the contents when the pressure is released. Good examples of common, everyday products that use propellants are aerosol products.
A three phase system (i.e., a heterogeneous system) is made up a layer of water immiscible liquid propellant, a layer of propellant immiscible liquid (usually water) which contains the product concentrate, and the vapor phase.
propellant. n. 1. (General Physics) something that provides or causes propulsion, such as the explosive charge in a gun or the fuel in a rocket. 2. (General Physics) the gas used to carry the liquid droplets in an aerosol spray.
In barrier pack systems, the propellant is physically separated from the product concentrate. The propellant pressure on the outside of the barrier serves only to push the contents from the container. In the piston type system, a polyethylene piston is fitted into
In a liquid rocket, the propellants, the fuel and the oxidizer, are stored separately as liquids and are pumped into the combustion chamber of the nozzle where burning occurs. In a solid rocket, the propellants are mixed together and packed into a solid cylinder.
In a rocket engine, fuel and a source of oxygen, called an oxidizer, are mixed and exploded in a combustion chamber. The combustion produces hot exhaust which is passed through a nozzle to accelerate the flow and produce thrust.
Thus an important characteristic of any aerosol is the density of the propellant, propellants, or blend of propellants. Foam aerosols are a three phase system in which the liquid propellant is emulsified with the product concentrate.
In any propulsion system, a working fluid is accelerated by the system and the reaction to this acceleration produces a force on the system. A general derivation of the thrust equation shows that the amount of thrust generated depends on the mass flow through the engine and the exit velocity of the gas.
The propulsion of a rocket includes all of the parts which make up the rocket engine; the tanks pumps, propellants, power head, and rocket nozzle. The function of the propulsion system is to produce thrust. Thrust is the force which moves a rocket through the air and through space. Thrust is generated by the propulsion system of the rocket.