Here's how to become a basketball referee or baskebtall official: Find out about the local officials associations in your area. They are a great way for new officials to learn from veteran officials. Attend a game in your area and ask the officials what association they belong to and whom to contact for information. The association will be a valuable pool of resources for training, obtaining games and getting to know the officiating community.
How to Become a Basketball Referee. Over the last few years, the popularity of organized youth basketball and AAU basketball has created a surge in the demand for men and women that choose to become a basketball referee. There is quite simply a lot of work out there.
You become a referee by attending and successfully completing a referee training course. As of July, 2013 U.S. Soccer Federation (USSF) authorized two entry-level referee certifications: Recreational Referee Grade 9 and Referee Grade 8. However, Referee Grade 8 entry level is the most popular. With this in mind, we posted an Entry Level Referee Test below on this page. To obtain more information about becoming a soccer referee, join our Referee Forum and ask our fellow referees for advice. 
Basketball Referee Training. To become a certified basketball referee, you must achieve a passing grade on a written rules exam. In many cases, you must also pass a floor test during which you officiate live action. This is to show that you also understand how to apply the rules in a game situation. Because basketball referee training and certification is done on a state by state basis, you must go to the website which handles high school sports in your own state to find information about how to become a basketball referee. Over the last few years, the popularity of organized youth basketball and AAU basketball has created a surge in the demand for men and women that choose to become a basketball referee. There is quite simply a lot of work out there.
An officiating association is a group of officials who meet periodically to discuss rules, mechanics and philosophy. They are a great way for new officials to learn from veteran officials. Attend a game in your area and ask the officials what association they belong to and whom to contact for information. The association will be a valuable pool of resources for training, obtaining games and getting to know the officiating community.
Earn partime income! Your local high schools need umpires and referees. THE CHALLENGE of officiating can provide some great personal rewards. As an official you must make instantaneous decisions, resolve conflicts and deal with stress and pressure. You are in a position to be a positive role model around children and young adults. Sports officials must be able to bring control to chaos; understand fairness; promote safety and encourage good sportsmanship. A sports official must have the positive characteristics of a police officer, lawyer, judge, accountant, reporter, athlete and diplomat.
The Central Florida Officials Association was formed in 1947 to provide officials for interscholastic sport programs of Central Florida. There are nearly 300 officials in the CFOA that are certified by the Florida High School Athletics Association (FHSAA) and scheduled for games at various schools throughout
Become a Referee in Florida. To become a referee in Florida you must first register with an association in your area. These local associations prepare sports officials to become basketball, soccer, football, hockey, lacrosse, volleyball and wrestling referees as well as baseball, softball and field hockey umpires. To become a high school sports referee or umpire in Florida, you must be 18-years old. You should expect to pay an entry fee along with a yearly dues assessment. The entry fee generally covers the cost of rule books, study material and, in some cases, classroom instruction.
Visit the Florida High School Athletic Association to learn about how to register to become a Florida referee. Use the “Directory” link to find referee and umpire training in your area. Here is even more information about how to become an official in Florida. Comments are closed. To become a high school sports referee or umpire in Florida, you must be 18-years old. You should expect to pay an entry fee along with a yearly dues assessment. The entry fee generally covers the cost of rule books, study material and, in some cases, classroom instruction.