The word watershed is sometimes used interchangeably with drainage basin or catchment. Ridges and hills that separate two watersheds are called the drainage divide. The watershed consists of surface water--lakes, streams, reservoirs, and wetlands--and all the underlying ground water. Watersheds are important because the streamflow and the water quality of a river are affected by things, human-induced or not, happening in the land area above the river-outflow point.
Catchments and Watersheds • 5 The final type of catchment, the Waterbody Catchment, is defined as the local area that directly contributes rainfall or runoff to a waterbody. Such a catchment consists of all the Shoreline Catchments associated with the waterbody. • AreaInSqMeters – Field containing the area (in m 2) of the catchment Definition of Watersheds A watershed is a polygon feature formed by synthesizing the Edge Catchments of a connected set of Hydro Edges. As such, watersheds are distinct from catchments, defined as areas draining to a given Hydro Edge.
Catchments and Watersheds • 1 4 Catchments and Watersheds Catchments and watersheds define drainage areas of the land surface that contribute flow to particular edges on the Hydro Network. An Edge Catchment is the local drainage area associated with a particular Hydro Edge. • AreaInSqMeters – Field containing the area (in m 2) of the catchment Definition of Watersheds A watershed is a polygon feature formed by synthesizing the Edge Catchments of a connected set of Hydro Edges. As such, watersheds are distinct from catchments, defined as areas draining to a given Hydro Edge.
Image 6.3-1: Plan view of water catchment area [Schil86]. In DIN 4046 [DIN4046] , a water catchment area is defined as follows: A catchment area or a part of a catchment area of a water gathering installation that is subject to the protection of water utility limitation.. According to the DVGW working paper W 101 [DVGWW101] , the water catchment area is usually divided into 3 protective zones: 1  Zone I: Collection region (Abschnitt 6.3). 
Watershed: In the technical sense, a watershed refers to a divide that separates one drainage area from another drainage area. However, in the United States andCanada, the term is often used to mean a drainage basin or catchment area itself. Drainage basins drain into other drainage basins in a hierarchical pattern, with smallersub-drainage basins combining into larger drainage basins. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Drainage_ba...
Drainage basin (catchment area) is the area which supplies a river system, lake or reservoir with water. The whole area consists of smaller sub-catchments supplying tributaries of the main ri-ver and direct catchments, which drain straight into a lake or main river (Box 3.1). Its purpose is to co-nvey excess water from a drainage basin, which will include the products of weathering and addi-tional loads of solutes produced by man. This pro-perty makes a drainage basin an integrator and its operation is reflected in the quantity and quality of the river run-off.
Drainage basin. 558 pages on this wiki. A drainage basin is the area within the drainage basin divide (yellow outline), and drains the surface runoff and river discharge (blue lines) of a contiguous area. 
Drainage divides (red lines) separating drainage basins (grey regions). A drainage divide, water divide, divide, ridgeline, watershed, water parting, or (in Canada) height of land, is the line that separates neighbouring drainage basins. In flat country—especially where the ground is marshy —the divide may be harder to discern. A valley floor divide is a low drainage divide that runs across a valley, sometimes created by deposition or stream capture.