A dozen or so species are native to North America (11–12 in the United States, 1 in Mexico), and 5–6 species from China and Indochina. The hickory tree, along with the oaks, dominates the hardwood forests of eastern North America. By Steve Nix. Trees in the genus Carya (from Ancient Greek for nut) are commonly known as hickory. The hickory genus includes 17–19 species of deciduous trees with pinnately compound leaves and large nuts.
Identifying the Type of Hickory. Hickory-belonging to a section of the Walnut family-is a canopy tree that is prevalent in eastern North America, although other species of hickory have been known to exist in Europe, Africa and Asia. Pignut hickory trees grow on broad ridges. Their leaves consist of 5 sharply pointed, serrated edged, dark green and shiny leaflets on a short rachis. The thin pignut husk is light brown, and the round fruit, which grows to be about 1 inch (2.5 cm) long by 0.8 inch (2 cm) wide, is a similar light brown.
The pecan belongs to the hickory tree family. Hickory trees (Carya spp.) are found primarily in the Midwest and Upper Midwest, the Southeast and north into New England and beyond. Of the various types of nuts each species produces, only a few are edible by humans. Hickory trees are also grown for shade, for their hard wood, and as a habitat for birds and other small animals. All hickories reach heights of 50 to 100 feet at maturity with a spread of roughly 40 feet and live for many years.
Identify a Mockernut hickory (Carya tomentosa). Mockernut hickory trees grow in dry land, on slopes and ridges. The leaflets are waxy, medium green, wide and rounded, and grow 7 or more to a rachis. The edges of mockernut leaflets are softly serrated, with dull-edged teeth. Pignut hickory trees grow on broad ridges. Their leaves consist of 5 sharply pointed, serrated edged, dark green and shiny leaflets on a short rachis. The thin pignut husk is light brown, and the round fruit, which grows to be about 1 inch (2.5 cm) long by 0.8 inch (2 cm) wide, is a similar light brown.
The hickory tree produces a dense, strong, and shock-resistant wood that is commonly used to make tool handles, furniture, and decorative architectural elements. In addition, many types of hickory are sought for use in the content and preparation of food, and can be useful in survival situations. Pignut hickory trees grow on broad ridges. Their leaves consist of 5 sharply pointed, serrated edged, dark green and shiny leaflets on a short rachis. The thin pignut husk is light brown, and the round fruit, which grows to be about 1 inch (2.5 cm) long by 0.8 inch (2 cm) wide, is a similar light brown.
8. Identify mockernut hickory nuts. The mockernut is 1 of the larger hickory nut species, growing anywhere between 1.5 inches (3.8 cm) and 2 inches (5 cm) long, and with a thick husk, between 0.12 inch (3 mm) and 0.24 inch (6 mm) thick. The mockernut shell is rectangular in shape, reddish brown and smooth. Identify bitternut hickory nuts. The shell of a bitternut may be anywhere between 0.8 inch (2 cm) to 1.6 inches (4 cm) long. It is a rounded, light-brown nut, enclosed in a thin, yellow-scaled husk. The kernel of the bitternut is bitter, as the name suggests.
Hickory Wood; The wood of Hickory tree species is extremely tough and flexible, and is used for golf club shafts, walking sticks, drumsticks, tool handles, bows, wheel spokes, carts, ski bottoms, lacrosse stick handles, sometimes still called a Hickory stick, even though made of steel or graphite. List of Hickory Trees, Carya Genus-All known species, taxa types, organized by scientific Latin botanical name first and common names second.
The pecan (Carya illinoinensis) is also a type of hickory, grown commercially for its valuable nuts. Lesser-known hickories include the nutmeg hickory (Carya myristiciformis), whose nuts are edible and whose bark is smooth throughout the tree's life spans and curls as the trees age. Others, such as the scrub hickory (Carya floridana), are more localized and found exclusively in parts of central Florida. Of the various types of nuts each species produces, only a few are edible by humans. Hickory trees are also grown for shade, for their hard wood, and as a habitat for birds and other small animals. All hickories reach heights of 50 to 100 feet at maturity with a spread of roughly 40 feet and live for many years.
Identify a Sand hickory (Carya palida). The sand hickory has matte, light green, narrow, pointed and smooth-edged leaflets. The nuts are the smallest of the hickory species, averaging only 0.5 inch (13 mm) to 1.45 inches (37 mm) long, with thin husks and shells and light colored nut meat. Pignut hickory trees grow on broad ridges. Their leaves consist of 5 sharply pointed, serrated edged, dark green and shiny leaflets on a short rachis. The thin pignut husk is light brown, and the round fruit, which grows to be about 1 inch (2.5 cm) long by 0.8 inch (2 cm) wide, is a similar light brown.