The bacteria cause inflammation of the gums that is called “gingivitis.” In gingivitis, the gums become red, swollen and can bleed easily. Gingivitis is a mild form of gum disease that can usually be reversed with daily brushing and flossing, and regular cleaning by a dentist or dental hygienist. This form of gum disease does not include any loss of bone and tissue that hold teeth in place. Periodontitis. When gingivitis is not treated, it can advance to “periodontitis” (which means “inflammation around the tooth”). In periodontitis, gums pull away from the teeth and form spaces (called “pockets”) that become infected.
A correct diagnosis of periodontal disease or gingivitis requires the skills and training of a dental professional. The signs of gingivitis include red, swollen gums, … bleeding gums when you brush your teeth. Periodontal disease may include sore teeth, loose teeth, or a chronic bad taste in your mouth. If your gums bleed when you brush or floss or your gums bleed easily when gently poked, you most likely have gum disease. It all depends on how advanced your case is, and there are 4 stages from what I have been told.
If your gum disease (periodontal disease) is early and has not yet invaded the jaw bone, then there is still a chance that it could be reversed. however, once the bone around your teeth becomes infected and starts to break down, it is incurable. If your gums bleed when you brush or floss or your gums bleed easily when gently poked, you most likely have gum disease. It all depends on how advanced your case is, and there are 4 stages from what I have been told.
Treating gum disease with homemade remedies is possible, and can help to cure various gum problems, such as gingivitis, periodontal disease, and several other problems that need to be taken seriously. The knowledge of these simple treatments will help you to maintain good oral health. Let it sit for a few minutes and gargle with warm water to rinse it off. 1  Lemons offer a win-win solution for treating gum disease. 2  First, they're an anti-inflammatory, which makes them helpful in treating infected gums.
PREVENTING PERIODONTAL DISEASE. Periodontal disease, also known as gum disease, is caused when bacteria in plaque (a sticky, colorless film that forms in the mouth) builds up between the gums and teeth. When the bacteria begin to grow, the gums surrounding the tooth can become inflamed. 
3. Fill your prescriptions. Your dentist or periodontist may determine that antibiotics are necessary to treat your periodontal disease. After root planing, she may insert antibiotic chips in the gum pockets that will slowly dissolve and release medication to kill bacteria. Get a deep cleaning of your teeth and gums. During deep cleaning, tartar is removed through scaling and root planing. Scaling removes tartar above and below the gum line by scraping and ultrasonics. Root planing removes bacteria on the tooth root and may be done by laser
1 As a result, how to treat gum disease with home made remedies is one major worldwide health issue that can help people follow some simple and effective ways for better oral health. 2  Using the lemon-salt remedy may cause your teeth to be extra-sensitive for a while after. Let it sit for a few minutes and gargle with warm water to rinse it off. 1  Lemons offer a win-win solution for treating gum disease. 2  First, they're an anti-inflammatory, which makes them helpful in treating infected gums.
6. Make a lemon paste. Make a paste from the juice of one lemon and some salt. Mix it well and apply to your teeth. Let it sit for a few minutes and gargle with warm water to rinse it off. 1  Lemons offer a win-win solution for treating gum disease. 2  First, they're an anti-inflammatory, which makes them helpful in treating infected gums.
The dentist or hygienist may also: 1  Take an x-ray to see whether there is any bone loss. 2  Refer you to a periodontist. 3  Periodontists are experts in the diagnosis and treatment of gum disease and may provide you with treatment options that are not offered by your dentist. Periodontitis. When gingivitis is not treated, it can advance to “periodontitis” (which means “inflammation around the tooth”). In periodontitis, gums pull away from the teeth and form spaces (called “pockets”) that become infected.