Best Answer: Practical Nursing is a 12-18 month program that qualifies you to be an LPN (Licensed Practical Nurse.) The Associates is a 2-year program that qualifies you to be a Registered Nurse. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Practical Nursing is a 12-18 month program that qualifies you to be an LPN (Licensed Practical Nurse.) The Associates is a 2-year program that qualifies you to be a Registered Nurse. I would recommend the RN diploma, hands down, every time.
Within the nursing field are a number of titles, including Licensed Practical Nurse (LPN), Licensed Vocational Nurse (LVN) and Registered Nurse (RN). This post will help clarify some of the differences, qualifications and responsibilities of LPNs and LVNs. Passing the NCLEX-PN is required for licensure of both LPNs and LVNs. The biggest difference between a Licensed Vocational Nurse (LVN) and a Licensed Practical Nurse (LPN) is actually the name.
LPNs can go onto pursue their associate degree in nursing (ADN), which typically takes as few as 12 to 18 months to complete. The degree program prepares you for a career as an RN and provides you with the necessary tools and knowledge to sit for the NCLEX-RN. 
They both work under RNs and doctors. LPN and LVN programs prepare you to take the NCLEX-PN. Passing the NCLEX-PN is required for licensure of both LPNs and LVNs. The biggest difference between a Licensed Vocational Nurse (LVN) and a Licensed Practical Nurse (LPN) is actually the name. The term LVN is used in California and Texas, while LPN is used throughout the rest of the United States
The board of nursing in each state defines the scope of practice for a licensed practical nurse/licensed vocational nurse (LPN/LVN) and registered nurse (RN). Everest offers three different nursing programs*: 1  Practical/Vocational Nursing (PN/VN) — 1-year program. 2  Associate Degree in Nursing (ADN) — 2-year program. 
Not necessarily. There are many different paths to becoming a nurse, and nurses vary in their levels of experience and education. Let's look more in-depth at just two of the many nursing degree programs available to people: a Licensed Practical Nursing (LPN) certificate and an Associate Degree in Nursing.
Torstveit also pointed out that since both tracks qualify you to sit for the NCLEX, there is no expected salary difference or preferential treatment between those holding an LPN associate degree versus a diploma. There are advantages and disadvantages to becoming an LPN instead of, for example, a registered nurse (RN). Once you decide that LPN is the career for you, make sure you choose the best degree program to fit your individual career goals.
LPN is a Licensed Practical Nurse and RN is a Registered Nurse. The main difference that can be noticed between LPN and RN is in their duties and practice. A registered nurse is one who has graduated with a 4 year nursing program with a Bachelor of Science degree or a 2-year nursing program with an Associate’s Degree. On the other hand, a Licensed Practical Nurse is a person who has graduated with a one year Practical Nursing program.
The Difference Between a LVN and LPN. The primary difference between a LVN and LPN is a variation in job title based on the state in which you work. Both of these are entry-level nursing careers. If you work in Texas or California, your job title is LVN. All other states refer to the same occupation as a