Salaried Nurse-Midwives. Midwives who are salaried employees of a hospital or practice earn annual incomes which vary considerably. Based on a survey taken in 2007, the American College of Nurse-Midwives reports that the median salary of a nurse-midwife who works 35 hours or more per week is between $79,093 and $89,916. A midwife helps to care for a woman during pregnancy, assists with childbirth and offers support to new mothers during the post-birth period. To practice in the United States, a midwife must be certified by either the North American Registry of Midwives or the American College of Nurse Midwives.
Average Nursing Midwife salaries for job postings in Connecticut are 15% higher than average Nursing Midwife salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 4th among states in the country. There were also job openings from employers like Yale University. Average Nursing Midwife salaries for job postings in Kansas are 9% lower than average Nursing Midwife salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 31st among states in the country. There were also job openings from employers like Rhino Medical Services.
Florida Midwife Salaries. The estimated annual midwife salary in Florida is $96,000 per year. While this is only an average figure, several important factors are essential to predicting annual income. As an entry-level midwife, the salary may be a bit lower due to lack of experience in the field; however, as you build up your patient base and gain experience, you can be assured that your income will increase significantly.
Average Certified Nurse Midwife salaries for job postings in Florida are 7% lower than average Certified Nurse Midwife salaries for job postings nationwide. 
Within Florida there is a lot of variation in Certified Nurse Midwife salaries. These variations depend on on a wide range of factors from population to general competitiveness in the market. Below is a map displaying a few key cities in Florida and surrounding states, click on any one to find Certified Nurse Midwife Salaries for that area. Ensures safety and health of mother and child and identifies need for additional care. Requires certification, a bachelor's degree and 2-4 years of experience in the field or in a related area.
Average Nursing Midwife salaries for job postings in Arizona are 18% lower than average Nursing Midwife salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 44th among states in the country. Average Nursing Midwife salaries for job postings in Kansas are 9% lower than average Nursing Midwife salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 31st among states in the country. There were also job openings from employers like Rhino Medical Services.
Average Nursing Midwife salaries for job postings in Massachusetts are 20% higher than average Nursing Midwife salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 3rd among states in the country. Average Nursing Midwife salaries for job postings in Kansas are 9% lower than average Nursing Midwife salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 31st among states in the country. There were also job openings from employers like Rhino Medical Services.
In addition, being a member of the Florida Council of Nurse Midwives can help you and/or your practice to be found more easily in the State of Florida. To give you an idea of exactly how salaries differ throughout the State of Florida, here is some information on the annual salaries in some of the cities in Florida: 1  Jacksonville: $89,000. 2  Miami: $94,000. 3  Tampa: $88,000. As an entry-level midwife, the salary may be a bit lower due to lack of experience in the field; however, as you build up your patient base and gain experience, you can be assured that your income will increase significantly.
Average Nursing Midwife salaries for job postings in Alabama are 1% higher than average Nursing Midwife salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 12th among states in the country. There were also job openings from employers like United States Army Medical Recruiting and University of South Alabama. Average Nursing Midwife salaries for job postings in Kansas are 9% lower than average Nursing Midwife salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 31st among states in the country. There were also job openings from employers like Rhino Medical Services.
Average Nurse Midwife salaries for job postings in Orlando, FL are 11% lower than average Nurse Midwife salaries for job postings nationwide. 