Mount Kosciuszko is the high point of the Great Dividing Range, a long mountain range that runs along the entire eastern part of Australia from Queensland to Victoria. Snowiest Place in Australia. The Mount Kosciuszko area is the coldest and snowiest part of Australia, which is mostly an arid and hot continent. Snow covers the mountain from June through October.
Mount Kosciuszko is a mountain located on the Main Range of the Snowy Mountains in Kosciuszko National Park, part of the Australian Alps National Parks and Reserves, in New South Wales, Australia. 1 Mount Wilhelm (4,509 m or 14,793 ft) in Papua New Guinea. 2  It is the highest mountain in that country. 3  Mount Victoria (4,072 m or 13,360 ft) in Central Province,
Part of the Great Dividing Range, the Snowy Mountains are Australia's tallest. It's here you'll find Australia's highest mountain, Mt. Kosciuszko. Although the tallest in Australia, it's only ranked the 71st highest in the world. Everest in Nepal is 4 times as high. World's highest mountains
Mount Kosciuszko is in the Snowy Mountains, which are part of the Australian Alps, which is part of Australia's Great Dividing Range.   Mt Kosciuszko is in the Snowy Mounta … ins, which are in the Main aka North New South Wales Range of the Great Dividing Range of Australia. 3 people found this useful. 
Mount Kosciuszko has it origins many millions of years ago when the continents of earth were fused together as the Gondwana land mass. A huge uplift in the earth's crust occur … red over millions of years, during the Pliocene and the Pleistocene Epochs (between 5.4 million to 10,000 years ago). Mount Kosciuszko is in the Snowy Mountains, which are part of the Australian Alps, which is part of Australia's Great Dividing Range.   Mt Kosciuszko is in the Snowy Mounta … ins, which are in the Main aka North New South Wales Range of the Great Dividing Range of Australia. 3 people found this useful. On the Wallaby
NASA Earth Observatory. download large image (4 MB, JPEG, 5336x5112). The 2,228-meter-tall (7,310-foot) Mt. Kosciuszko lies at the southern end of Australia’s Snowy Mountains, which define the Kosciuszko National Park. Though it is the tallest mountain on the continent, Kosciuszko is very easy to climb. 
Geography and Climate. The Snowy Mountains are in the south east of New South Wales, and are the highest point in Australia’s Great Dividing Range. Much of the region is incorporated into Kosciuszko National Park. At 2,228m, Mount Kosciuszko is the highest peak on the Australian mainland. Mount Kosciuszko is 2,228 metres high, and is the highest peak on the Australian mainland. At 6,900 sq kms, Kosciuszko National Park is the largest in New South Wales. In 1997 Kosciuszko National Park was given international significance by being declared a World Biosphere Reserve by UNESCO.
High Point of Great Dividing Range. Mount Kosciuszko is the high point of the Great Dividing Range, a long mountain range that runs along the entire eastern part of Australia from Queensland to Victoria. Mount Kosciuszko itself is in New South Wales a few miles from its border with Victoria. Snowiest Place in Australia. The Mount Kosciuszko area is the coldest and snowiest part of Australia, which is mostly an arid and hot continent. Snow covers the mountain from June through October.