Median arcuate ligament syndrome is a cause of chronic mesenteric ischemia. The median arcuate ligament is a part of the diaphragm that surrounds the aorta. The diaphragm moves with respiration. This movement may cause tension on the celiac artery that is nearest to the median arcuate ligament. In patients with median arcuate ligament syndrome there is usually lack of atherosclerosis. A focal stenosis of the celiac artery may be seen. It is best seen on sagital views. This, however, is not diagnostic.
In this article, we discuss the pathophysiology, diagnosis and treatment of median arcuate ligament syndrome (MALS), an uncommon disorder characterized by epigastric abdominal pain accentuated by meals and weight loss associated with nausea,vomiting and gastroparesis. Median arcuate ligament syndrome is an uncommon disorder first described in the 1960s. It is characterized by epigastric abdominal pain accentuated by meals and weight loss associated with nausea, vomiting and gastroparesis. Abnormal gastric electrical rhythm has also been reported.
Celiac artery compression syndrome, also known as median arcuate ligament syndrome, is a condition where a muscular fibrous band of the diaphragm, the median arcuate ligament, compresses the celiac artery, which supplies blood to the upper abdominal organs. 
Median arcuate ligament syndrome is compression of the celiac artery, an artery that originates from the aorta just below the diaphragm. The median arcuate ligament, a part of the diaphragm that connects the diaphragm with the vertebrae is in the lumbar region between the ribs and pelvis. 
Celiac artery compression syndrome (also referred to as celiac axis syndrome, median arcuate ligament syndrome, and Dunbar syndrome) is defined as chronic, recurrent abdominal pain related to compression of the celiac artery by the median arcuate ligament. The syndrome is also referred to as celiac axis syndrome, median arcuate ligament syndrome, and Dunbar syndrome.
Division of Gastroenterology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, USA. The median arcuate ligament syndrome (MALS) is characterized by abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting attributed to compression of the celiac axis by a fibrous band (the median arcuate ligament) connecting the diaphragmatic crura. 
Introduction. Median arcuate ligament syndrome (MALS) or celiac axis compression syndrome (CACS) is an uncommon condition caused by the external compression of the celiac trunk by the median arcuate ligament (Figure 1). This symptom involves abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and weight loss. 1. Median arcuate ligament syndrome (MALS) or celiac axis compression syndrome (CACS) is an uncommon condition caused by the external compression of the celiac trunk by the median arcuate ligament (Figure 1). This symptom involves abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and weight loss.
On expiration, the median arcuate ligament moves closer to the celiac axis and can cause compression [2] . This syndrome is most common in young females with a thin body habitus. It typically presents with symptoms of postprandial abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting and weight loss. Keywords: Median arcuate ligament syndrome; Celiac compression syndrome; Inflammatory bowel disease; Ulcerative colitis; Postprandial abdominal pain. Introduction. Median arcuate ligament syndrome (MALS) is a condition caused by the external compression of the celiac artery by the median arcuate ligament.