Arabian jasmine is a flowering shrub, native to India. It grows to 6 feet in height with a 2- to 3-foot spread. Flowers are white, star-shaped and 1/2 to 3/4 inch wide. Arabian jasmine does best in warm weather in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 9 through 11.
Arabian jasmine is a flowering tropical plant that is native to India and areas of Southern Asia. USDA growing zones 9 and 10 offer the best outdoor growing conditions for Arabian jasmine. Arabian jasmine grows to a height of up to 10 feet and produces blooms from June through September, depending on the variety.
1 Prune the Arabian jasmine plant in the winter before fertilization. 2  If the jasmine plant is in ground, spread the fertilizer granules or powder on the soil up to the drip line and rack up. 3  Water the soil deeply, to the top 6 inches. 4  Fertilizer quarterly.
Known as pikake in Hawaii and Arabian jasmine elsewhere, Jasminum sambac's tiny white flowers pack a wallop when it comes to fragrance. Native to India, this olive-family plant thrives in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 9 through 11.
Arabian jasmine is part of the Jasminum (Jasmine) genus. Its scientific name is Jasminum sambac. Blooms typically mature to a diameter of 5.0 cm (1.95 inches imperial) and produce a jasmine fragrance, whilst displaying in these approximate colours: Anti-flash white.
Propagate Arabian jasmine plants in spring by taking 3-inch semi-hardwood cuttings. Place the cut end in an even mixture of sand, peat moss and vermiculite that has been lightly dampened. Transfer the cuttings to a 3-inch pot once roots are formed in approximately four weeks.
Step 1. Plant the Arabian jasmine in a location that offers a well-drained soil and full sun to partial shade. Work organic compost into the soil at the time of planting to increase the soil nutrient value and moisture retention.
Arabian jasmine is a small bush with evergreen leaves. There are many other varieties of jasmine plant, of which are best suited for sub-tropical climates. Learning how to grow jasmine will add a striking visual and olfactory touch to the garden.