A situation in nobody’s interest. Gabapentin can be addictive. Search for gabapentin abuse or pregabalin abuse on Google Scholar and you’ll turn up 18,000 entries in less than a second. Pubmed is a little more specific finding 249 papers related to the subject. Vaults of Erowid has over 100 gabapentin and pregabalin ‘experiences’ detailed by users
Gabapentin is not a Controlled Substance, that is, one that the United States federal government classifies as having potential for addiction and regulates under the Comprehensive Drug Abuse and Control Act of 1970. Gabapentin is an analog of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), a neurotransmitter that slows down the activity of nerve cells in the brain. This means that gabapentin has a similar structure and is made up of similar chemicals as GABA, although its effect on the body is not the same.
In terms of off-label use of Neurontin, addiction treatments have also incorporated using Neurontin to treat seizures associated with drug and alcohol withdrawal. Neurontin addiction therapy is also utilized to treat cocaine addictions. Though often prescribed in Neurontin addiction therapy, there is no evidence to suggest that taking Neurontin helps treat the seizures associated with drug and alcohol withdrawal. Taking Neurontin for its approved uses in the manner that has been prescribed by a medical professional has given no indication of causing a Neurontin addiction. If you are taking Neurontin, it is important to discuss treatment options with your doctor prior to making any changes in your treatment regiment.
Neurontin Addiction And Treatment. Neurontin, also referred to as Gabapentin, is a prescription drug that has been studied in the United Stated for almost three decades. Basically, Neurontin is designed to treat alcohol and substance abuse, seizures induced by epilepsy and post herpetic neuralgia. However, if the drug is overused or used for the wrong purposes, it can quickly become addictive.
Posted on September 28, 2013 in Prescription Drug Addiction. When Neurontin was the new drug on the block, physicians believed that they had found a real breakthrough drug to help patients with all kinds of nerve pain. Gabapentin is an analog of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), a neurotransmitter that slows down the activity of nerve cells in the brain. This means that gabapentin has a similar structure and is made up of similar chemicals as GABA, although its effect on the body is not the same.
Gabapentin is an analog of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), a neurotransmitter that slows down the activity of nerve cells in the brain, but does not bind to GABA receptors or affect the production or uptake of GABA. How gabapentin works and how it relieves pain and suppresses seizures are unknown. Gabapentin does not exhibit affinity for benzodiazepine, opioid (mu, delta, or kappa), or cannabinoid 1 receptor sites, which are often activated in drugs of abuse. Gabapentin is not scheduled as a controlled substance, indicating little potential for abuse and addiction. However, gabapentin shares characteristics of medications associated with misuse and addiction, in that it produces a withdrawal syndrome and certain psychoactive effects
Gabapentin is used primarily to treat seizures and neuropathic pain. It is also commonly prescribed for many off-label uses, such as treatment of anxiety disorders, insomnia, and bipolar disorder. Originally it was developed to treat epilepsy, and is currently used to relieve neuropathic pain and restless leg syndrome. It is recommended as a first line agent for the treatment of neuropathic pain arising from diabetic neuropathy, post-herpetic neuralgia, and central
Neurontin – also known as the generic gabapentin – is one of the many drugs currently being tested as a possible treatment for addiction disorders. Research into Neurontin’s use as a treatment has provided some hope, though like most other drugs, what works for one group may not necessarily work for another. 