Where is Aruba on the map? Aruba is a 19 miles (30 km)- long island of the Lesser Antilles in the southern Caribbean Sea. It's a mere 15 miles (24 km) from the coast of Venezuela. 
Aruba is located in the southern Caribbean Sea, and is an island in the Lesser Antilles. It is a part of the Kingdom of Netherlands and has no administrative subdivisions. It is located 16.7 miles north of the coast of Venezuela and approximately 80 miles east of Guajira Peninsula. 
In the southernmost Caribbean Sea is where Aruba is located on the world map. Specifically, Aruba is to the south of the Caribbean islands of Dominican Republic, Haiti and J … amaica. It is to the northeast of Colombia, the north of Venezuela and to the northwest of Guyana. + 15 others found this useful. Linda Stanley.
Aruba is a 33 km-long island of the Lesser Antilles in the southern Caribbean Sea, located 27 km north of the coast of Venezuelain the world map. 
[aːˈrubaː]) is an island country in the southern Caribbean Sea, located about 1,600 kilometres (990 mi) west of the Lesser Antilles and 29 kilometres (18 mi) north of the coast of Venezuela. 
Graduate study, travel, work make me an expert in benthics, European languages, wildlife mapping, world fauna and flora. In the southernmost Caribbean Sea is where Aruba is located on the world map. Specifically, Aruba is to the south of the Caribbean islands of Dominican Republic, Haiti and Jamaica. It is to the northeast of Colombia, the north of Venezuela and to the northwest of Guyana. 
Welcome to Aruba! Aruba is located in the very heart of the southern Caribbean, a 2 ½ hour flight from Miami and about 15 miles north of Venezuela. One of the Caribbean's most popular island destinations, Aruba is at once breathtakingly serene and dramatically rugged at the same time.
Satellite image of Aruba. Aruba is an island in the south of Caribbean in the Caribbean Sea. It is westernmost island of the ABC Islands and of the Leeward Antilles. It is located at 12°30′N 69°58′W﻿ / ﻿12.500°N 69.967°W﻿ / 12.500; -69.967, 25 km north of the coast of Venezuela and 68 km northwest of Curacao. curaçao
Aruba is one of the Lesser Antilles islands located in the Southern Caribbean Sea. The island is located miles off the coast of Venezuela and on clear days it is possible to see Venezuela from the south-eastern side of the island. The Lesser Antilles are several islands extending in an arc from Puerto Rico to the north-eastern coast of South America.
Located in the continent of the Caribbean, Aruba covers 180 square kilometers of land, making it the 222nd largest nation in terms of land area. Aruba is a dependant territory of The Netherlands. The population of Aruba is 107,635 (2012) and the nation has a density of 598 people per square kilometer. Location of Oranjestad on a map. Oranjestad is the capital city of Aruba. It has a population of 29,998, and is located on a latitue of 12.52 and longitude of -70.03.