Angina (say ANN-juh-nuh or ann-JY-nuh) is a symptom of heart disease. Angina happens when there is not enough blood flow to the heart muscle. This is often a result of narrowed blood vessels, usually caused by hardening of the arteries (atherosclerosis). Angina can be dangerous
Variant angina is an extremely rare form of angina pectoris that is caused by a spasm in a coronary artery. Angina pectoris, or angina for short, is chest pain or discomfort that occurs when the heart muscle is not getting enough oxygen-rich blood for a short period of time. Unlike other types of angina that usually occur in someone with coronary artery disease (also called CAD or just heart disease), variant angina may occur in people with or without this condition.
Variant angina: Chest pain due to coronary artery spasm, a sudden constriction of a coronary artery (one of the vessels that supply the heart muscle with blood rich in oxygen) depriving the heart muscle (myocardium) of blood and oxygen. 
TOP. Variant angina is caused by a spasm in a coronary artery that supplies the heart muscle with blood, oxygen, and nutrients. A spasm is a sudden, temporary narrowing or tightening of a small part of an artery. This spasm results in a temporary situation where the heart does not get enough blood. Variant angina is often treated with medications called calcium channel blockers. These medications can decrease variant angina attacks and are often used in combination with nitrates during attacks. If another condition is contributing to your angina, such as CAD, then it will need to be treated as well..
A. Prinzmetal's angina is a form of chest pain, pressure, or tightness (angina) caused by spasms in the arteries that supply blood to the heart. It is a form of unstable angina, meaning that it occurs at rest, often without a predictable pattern. A. Variant angina is a type of angina (chest pain) that occurs at rest most often due to coronary spasm. This answer should not be considered medical advice... This answer should not be considered medical advice and should not take the place of a doctor’s visit
Prinzmetal's or Prinzmetal angina (/ˈprɪntsmɛtəl/ , sounds like prints metal) (also known as variant angina, angina inversa, or coronary vessel spasm) is a syndrome typically consisting of angina (cardiac chest pain) at rest that occurs in cycles. 
Causes of Variant Angina. Variant angina is caused by a spasm in a coronary artery. This spasm causes the walls of the artery to tighten. This narrows the artery, causing the blood flow to the heart to slow or stop. Unlike other types of angina that usually occur in someone with coronary artery disease (also called CAD or just heart disease), variant angina may occur in people with or without this condition.
Variant angina is caused by a spasm in a coronary artery that supplies the heart muscle with blood, oxygen, and nutrients. Variant angina is often treated with medications called calcium channel blockers. These medications can decrease variant angina attacks and are often used in combination with nitrates during attacks. If another condition is contributing to your angina, such as CAD, then it will need to be treated as well..
Causes of Variant (Prinzmetal) Angina: The pain from variant angina is caused by a spasm in the coronary arteries (which supply blood to the heart muscle). The coronary arteries can spasm as a result of: Symptoms of Variant (Prinzmetal) Angina: The pain or discomfort: Unlike typical angina – which is often triggered by exertion or emotional stress-Prinzmetal’s angina almost always occurs when a person is at rest, usually between midnight and early morning. These attacks can be very painful.