Alcohol withdrawal refers to symptoms that may occur when a person who has been drinking too much alcohol on a regular basis suddenly stops drinking alcohol. Alcohol withdrawal occurs most often in adults.
A simple and informal definition of alcohol dependence is that it is a condition resulting from the prolonged and usually intense consumption of alcohol which has resulted in psychological and/or physiological dependence on alcohol consumption.
Alcohol withdrawal is a life-threatening condition. It can begin within 12 to 24 hours of admission or as late as 2 weeks after a person stops drinking. Early-stage withdrawal usually occurs within 48 hours of the patient’s last drink, with generally mild symptoms.
Continued excessive alcohol consumption can lead to the development of dependence that is associated with a withdrawal syndrome when alcohol consumption is ceased or substantially reduced. This syndrome comprises physical signs as well as psychological symptoms that contribute to distress and psychological discomfort.
Alcohol withdrawal syndrome (AWS) is the name for the symptoms that occur when a heavy drinker suddenly stops or significantly reduces their alcohol intake.
8: Definition of dependence. With repeated use of heroin, dependence also occurs. Dependence develops when the neurons adapt to the repeated drug exposure and only function normally in the presence of the drug. When the drug is withdrawn, several physiologic reactions occur. These can be mild (e.g., for caffeine) or even life threatening (e.g., for alcohol). This is known as the withdrawal syndrome.
alcohol withdrawal. A constellation of clinical findings—e.g., CNS and autonomic nervous system excitability—which results when a person with habitual long-term or heavy alcohol use abstains therefrom, resulting in a drop in blood alcohol concentration.
In this article. Alcohol withdrawal syndrome is a potentially life-threatening condition that can occur in people who have been drinking heavily for weeks, months, or years and then either stop or significantly reduce their alcohol consumption.