This gradient is used by the F O F 1 ATP synthase complex to make ATP via oxidative phosphorylation. ATP synthase is sometimes described as Complex V of the electron transport chain. The F O component of ATP synthase acts as an ion channel that provides for a proton flux back into the mitochondrial matrix. In the mitochondrial electron transport chain electrons move from an electron donor (NADH or QH 2) to a terminal electron acceptor (O 2) via a series of redox reactions. These reactions are coupled to the creation of a proton gradient across the mitochondrial inner membrane. There are three proton pumps: I, III, and IV.
Most eukaryotic cells have mitochondria, which produce ATP from products of the citric acid cycle, fatty acid oxidation, and amino acid oxidation. At the mitochondrial inner membrane, electrons from NADH and succinate pass through the electron transport chain to oxygen, which is reduced to water. In the mitochondrial electron transport chain electrons move from an electron donor (NADH or QH 2) to a terminal electron acceptor (O 2) via a series of redox reactions. These reactions are coupled to the creation of a proton gradient across the mitochondrial inner membrane. There are three proton pumps: I, III, and IV.
Oxidative phosphorylation synthesizes the bulk of a cell’s ATP during cellular respiration. A proton-motive force across a membrane provides the energy for ATP synthase (a molecular machine) to make ATP from ADP and inorganic phosphate. The proton-motive force is created by a large (1000-fold) difference in proton concentrations across a membrane.
Oxidative phosphorylation occurs in the mitochondria, and the two reactions (oxidation of NADH or FADH 2 and phosphorylation to generate ATP) are coupled by a proton gradient across the inner membrane of the mitochondria (Figure 9). We have seen that the electron-transport chain generates a large proton gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane. But recall that the ultimate goal of oxidative phosphorylation is to generate ATP to supply readily-available free energy for the body.
In most cases the proton motive force is generated by an electron transport chain which acts as a proton pump, using the energy of electrons from an electron carrier (Gibbs free energy of redox reactions) to pump protons (hydrogen ions) out across the membrane, separating the charge across the membrane. The oxidation of acetyl CoA in the mitochondrial matrix is coupled to the reduction of a carrier molecule such as NAD and FAD. The carriers pass electrons to the electron transport chain (ETC) in the inner mitochondrial membrane, which in turn pass them to other proteins in the ETC.
And that's why the long search for a high-energy chemical intermediate (a molecule able to transfer the energy from the oxidation of glucose to form ATP) was doomed to failure. In place of such an intermediate, Mitchell proposed a proton gradient across a membrane: the proton motive force (Mitchell 1961). The flow of protons through amazing protein turbines embedded in this membrane powers the synthesis of ATP in much the same way that the flow of water through mechanized turbines generates electricity. This explains why respiration is not stoichiometric: a gradient, by its very nature, is composed of gradations.
2 Proton Gradients Produce Most of the Cell’s ATP Glycolysis alone produces a net yield of two molecules of ATP for every molecule of glucose, which is the total energy yield for the fermentation process that occur in the absence of oxygen. The device that makes this possible is a large membrane-bound enzyme called ATP synthase.This enzymes creates a hydrophilic pathway across the inner mitochondrial membrane that allows protons to follow down their el ectrochemical gradient.
The inner membrane is also loaded with proteins involved in electron transport and ATP synthesis. This membrane surrounds the mitochondrial matrix, where the citric acid cycle produces the electrons that travel from one protein complex to the next in the inner membrane. 
ATP synthase then uses the energy stored in this gradient to make ATP. This process is called oxidative phosphorylation because oxygen is the final electron acceptor and the energy released by reducing oxygen to water is used to phosphorylate ADP and generate ATP. The oxidation of acetyl CoA in the mitochondrial matrix is coupled to the reduction of a carrier molecule such as NAD and FAD. The carriers pass electrons to the electron transport chain (ETC) in the inner mitochondrial membrane, which in turn pass them to other proteins in the ETC.