To do a biomedical science degree, you will usually need five GCSEs (A-C) including maths and English, plus three A levels, preferably including biology and chemistry. Check with course providers for exact entry requirements as these may vary and other qualifications may be accepted. If you enjoy science and you are interested in medicine and health care, this could be a great job choice for you. As a biomedical scientist you will need to have an enquiring mind and be good at solving problems. You will need to be able to concentrate for long periods of time and have good attention to detail.
Typical employers | Qualifications and training | Key skills. Biomedical scientists are responsible for investigating and diagnosing patient illnesses such as HIV, cancer, diabetes, food poisoning, hepatitis and meningitis. Biomedical scientists carry out experiments on samples of body fluids and tissue to help develop solutions to threatening diseases. The RAF offers a biomedical science course, from which you will gain a BSc in Biomedical Science.
Step 4: Consider a Medical Degree. All biomedical scientists are required to have a medical degree if they want to pursue clinical work. However, a medical degree is not necessary for biomedical scientists who prefer to work solely in research rather than clinical studies. Medical school typically lasts four years. Step 3: Pursue Postdoctoral Programs. A Ph.D. degree is required for biomedical scientists. If students wish to obtain a medical degree, they can consider programs that combine the postdoctoral and medical degrees. Most universities require a GRE and a bachelor's degree for admission to such programs.
To work as a biomedical scientist you will need a BSc (Hons) degree accredited by the Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS). You will also need to register with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC). If you enjoy science and you are interested in medicine and health care, this could be a great job choice for you. As a biomedical scientist you will need to have an enquiring mind and be good at solving problems. You will need to be able to concentrate for long periods of time and have good attention to detail.
A Few More Exams You Might Need. Entry to a biomedical science degree usually requires a minimum of two A levels/three H grades, including chemistry and biology, and five GCSE's/S grades (A-C/1-3), including English, science and maths.
Aspiring biomedical scientists may want to pursue a Bachelor of Science in Biological Sciences, or they may seek a specific undergrad program for biomedical science. Students may take foundational classes in chemistry, biology, math and physics. Step 3: Pursue Postdoctoral Programs. A Ph.D. degree is required for biomedical scientists. If students wish to obtain a medical degree, they can consider programs that combine the postdoctoral and medical degrees. Most universities require a GRE and a bachelor's degree for admission to such programs.
You may be able to get into biomedical science as a trainee. You would usually need at least two A levels in science or a related subject. Places are sponsored by employers such as the NHS and are advertised as trainee biomedical scientist positions. You would work and study towards an accredited degree. If you enjoy science and you are interested in medicine and health care, this could be a great job choice for you. As a biomedical scientist you will need to have an enquiring mind and be good at solving problems. You will need to be able to concentrate for long periods of time and have good attention to detail.
Qualifications and training required. In order to start work as a trainee biomedical scientist you will need a Certificate of Competence from the Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS) and you must be registered with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC). Biomedical scientists carry out experiments on samples of body fluids and tissue to help develop solutions to threatening diseases. The RAF offers a biomedical science course, from which you will gain a BSc in Biomedical Science.