Pregnancy is a 9 month cycle in the average woman. - Thank you for using ChaCha! Text back soon with more questions! [ Source: http://www.chacha.com/question/how-long-is-a-baby-in-a-womb-for ]. More Answers to  How long is a baby in a womb for . How long is a baby in the womb for? http://wiki.answers.com/Q/How_long_is_a_baby_in_the_womb_for&src=rss0. A human baby is in the womb for about 9 months. How long are baby fish in the womb?
By 30 weeks the toenails are present and by 32 weeks the fingernails have reached the ends of the fingers. The baby’s eyes will be open when the baby’s awake. By about 32 weeks the baby will have settled into a downward position as there is no longer enough room left in the womb for it to move about freely. You will feel occasional vigorous jabs of the baby’s arms and legs. If your baby is a boy, his testes will migrate down into the scrotum in the 8th month. Your baby may suck its thumb now. By 14 weeks your baby will be about 9-10 cm long. Its body is now covered with a layer of fine hair called lanugo. By 16 weeks its face is becoming more human in appearance, although the chin is small and the mouth is quite wide.
Best Answer: Generally, most doctors will induce labor if it hasn't begun 24 hours after your water breaks, due to the hightened risk of infections. If your water breaks before labor starts, your health care provider will want to check you and the baby. 
Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Most people think that a baby is supposed to be in the womb for 36 weeks (9 months) but a baby is supposed to be in the womb for 40 weeks (10 months). A baby pig is in the mother's womb for 114 days, give or take 2  days.
They try not to let them go more then 24 hours if they are term, but at that stage sometimes there is still some fluid enough to keep the baby in for a while. My cousins wife had the same thing happen at 31 weeks. She only made it to 32 weeks, but the baby is doing great and should be coming home in the week or so. Report Abuse. I heard it wasn't safe to keep the baby in if the water breaks! by then the baby is not getting the protection he/she needs and it could hurt the baby in the long run. They should have delivered the baby already....past 27 weeks the baby has a greater chance to live.
Best Answer: 40 weeks is the average pregnancy, but if the baby hasn't come out by 42 weeks they will induce you. They will not let a baby stay in the Mother's womb longer than 42 weeks. Source(s): »-(¯`v´¯)-» мaяк's ωifee · 7 years ago. 40 weeks is a guesstimate! Lots of babies arrive early as well. If you question is aiming more along the lines of How long can you stay pregnant (some pregnant women are afraid of birth, and sometimes wonder what would happen if they chose not to push... lol) the answer is-approximately 40 weeks gestation. Lol.
Q: my hamster disney is pregnant but how long do the babies devolp in the womb before the mother gives birth. A: 16-18 days gestation normally for a Syrian, 18-21 days for a Russian, 21-23 days for Chinese and 23-30 days for Robo's. How long is a baby in the womb for? http://wiki.answers.com/Q/How_long_is_a_baby_in_the_womb_for&src=rss0. A human baby is in the womb for about 9 months. How long are baby fish in the womb?
The average pregnancy lasts 40 weeks. Most OBGYNs will allow the baby to stay in up to 42 weeks before using medical interventions. After that, the placenta begins to deteriorate, and the baby does not receive the oxygen and nutrition necessary to survive in the womb. 40 weeks is a guesstimate! Lots of babies arrive early as well. If you question is aiming more along the lines of How long can you stay pregnant (some pregnant women are afraid of birth, and sometimes wonder what would happen if they chose not to push... lol) the answer is-approximately 40 weeks gestation. Lol.