Actions ▼. A fixed-price-plus-incentive-fee (FPI. contract has a target cost of $130,000, a target profit of $15,000, a target price of $145,000, a ceiling price of $160,000, and a share ratio of 80/20. The actual cost of the project was $150,000. A fixed-price-plus-incentive-fee (FPI. contract has a target cost of $130,000, a target profit of $15,000, a target price of $145,000, a ceiling price of $160,000, and a share ratio of 80/20. « 1  Previous.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A fixed-price contract is a type of contract where the payment amount does not depend on resources used or time expended. This is opposed to a cost-plus contract, which is intended to cover the costs with additional profit made. The U.S. A-12 Avenger II development contract was a fixed-price incentive contract, not a fixed price contract, with a target price of $4.38 billion and ceiling price of $4.84 billion. It was to be a unique, stealthy, flying wing design. On 7 January 1991, the Secretary of Defense canceled the program.
A cost-plus-incentive-fee contract is a cost-reimbursement contract that incentivizes the contractor to bring in the project under budget. A cost-plus-fixed-fee contract reimburses costs and pays the contractor a fee that is negotiated prior to signing the contract. Fixed-Price. A fixed-price agreement is not a cost-reimbursement contract. The contractor estimates the total cost of materials and labor, and includes that in his bid price, and the contract is generally awarded to the lowest bid. The total pay the contractor receives covers these costs
16.403-1(b). ) A fixed-price incentive contract is a fixed-price type contract with provisions for adjustment of profit. The final contract price is based on a comparison between the final negotiated total costs and the total target costs.
Regardless of the actual cost of the project, in a cost-plus-fixed-fee contract, the negotiated fee remains fixed. If the scope of the contract changes, the fee may be adjusted. The contractor submits separate invoices for reimbursement of costs of materials and labor. Fixed-Price. A fixed-price agreement is not a cost-reimbursement contract. The contractor estimates the total cost of materials and labor, and includes that in his bid price, and the contract is generally awarded to the lowest bid. The total pay the contractor receives covers these costs
1 Firm-Fixed-Price Contract The term firm fixed price contract refers specifically to a type or variety of fixed price contract where the buyer... 2  Cost-Plus-Fixed-Fee (CPFF) Contract The cost-plus-fee contract is also referred to by the abbreviation of CPFF, and represents a variant of a cost reimbursable... 
(a) Description. A fixed-price incentive contract is a fixed-price contract that provides for adjusting profit and establishing the final contract price by application of a formula based on the relationship of total final negotiated cost to total target cost. A fixed-price incentive (firm target) contract is appropriate when the parties can negotiate at the outset a firm target cost, target profit, and profit adjustment formula that will provide a fair and reasonable incentive and a ceiling that provides for the contractor to assume an appropriate share of the risk.
(FAR 16.403 and 16.403-1(b)) A fixed-price incentive contract is a fixed-price type contract with provisions for adjustment of profit. The final contract price is based on a comparison between the final negotiated total costs and the total target costs. 
A fixed-price incentive contract is a fixed-price contract that provides for adjusting profit and establishing the final contract price by a formula based on the relationship of final negotiated total cost to total target cost. Fixed-price incentive contracts are covered in Subpart 16.4, Incentive Contracts. (b) The contracting officer may use a fixed-price contract with economic price adjustment in conjunction with an award-fee incentive (see 16.404) and performance or delivery incentives (see 16.402-2 and 16.402-3) when the award fee or incentive is based solely on factors other than cost.