Serous membranes have specific names in three locations of the body: Peritoneum-the serous membrane that lines the abdominal cavity and the organs within it. Pleura-the serous membrane that surrounds the lungs. Pericardium-the serous membrane that surrounds the heart. Serous membranes are continuous but when the membrane covers the wall of the body cavity it is called parietal and when the serous membrane lines an organ within the body cavity it is called visceral (viscus is Latin for organ). The word serous means watery.
Peritoneum. The peritoneum is a smooth, glistening, serous membrane that lines the abdominal wall as the parietal peritoneum and is reflected from the body wall to various organs, where, as visceral peritoneum, it forms an integral part as the outermost, or serosal, layer. 
Peritoneum is the thin serous membrane that lines the walls of the abdominal and pelvic cavities and clothes the abdominal and pelvic viscera. It is the largest serous membrane of human body and has a rather complex arrangement. Layers of peritoneum: The peritoneum can be regarded as a balloon into which the organs are pressed from outside. Due to this, two layers are formed. One layer lines the walls of the abdominal and pelvic cavities and is called the parietal peritoneum.
15 Serous Membranes & Cavities Body Cavities The major cavities of the body are withinthe trunk. They contain visceral organs andserous membrane cavities:Thoracic cavity — is lined byendothoracic fascia.Abdominal & pelvic cavities — arelined by transversalis fascia. 
peritoneum. the serous membrane lining the walls of the abdominal and pelvic cavities (parietal peritoneum) and investing contained viscera (visceral peritoneum), the two layers enclosing a potential space, the peritoneal cavity. , pl. The serous membrane, consisting of mesothelium and connective tissue, that lines the abdominal cavity and covers most of the viscera contained therein; it forms two sacs: the peritoneal (or greater) sac and the omental bursa (lesser sac), connected by the epiploic foramen. [Mod. L. fr.
The walls of the ventral body cavity and outer covering of its organs contain a thin covering called the serosa (also called serous membrane). It is a double-layered membrane made up of two parts called the “ parietal serosa ” (lines the cavity walls) and “ visceral serosa ” (covers organs in the cavity). The serous membranes are separated by a thin layer of fluid called “ serous fluid “.
The peritoneum /ˌpɛrɨtəˈniːəm/ is the serous membrane that forms the lining of the abdominal cavity or coelom in amniotes and some invertebrates, such as annelids. It covers most of the intra-abdominal (or coelomic) organs, and is composed of a layer of mesothelium supported by a thin layer of connective tissue. 
Answer by 1Jazz. Confidence votes 9.4K. The Peritoneum is the serous membrane that lines the abdominal cavity. The parietal peritoneum lines the abdominal wall, and the visceral peritoneum lines the outside of the organs within the cavity. The viseral and parietal peritoneum line the abdominal cavity. Peritoneum. parietal peritoneum. peritoneum. peritoneum. 
A serous membrane (also referred to as a serosa) is one of the thin membranes that cover the walls and organs in the thoracic and abdominopelvic cavities. The parietal layers of the membranes line the walls of the body cavity (pariet-refers to a cavity wall). The visceral layer of the membrane covers the organs (the viscera). Between the parietal and visceral layers is a very thin, fluid-filled serous space, or cavity.