Falafel is a popular Middle Eastern food that is made with spiced chickpeas and fava beans that are ground into a paste, formed into balls, and then fried. The resulting patties are typically rolled up in a flatbread like pita and topped with a tangy sauce.
Different regions of the Middle East use varying ratios of chickpeas to fava beans. In some regions, one legume exclusively is used; in Egypt, for example, falafel is made with fava beans only. The spicing typically includes onion, garlic, minced parsley, cumin, and coriander.
The word falafel may descend from the Arabic word falāfil, a plural of the word filfil, meaning “pepper.” These fried vegetarian fritters are often served along with hummus, and tahini sauce (known as a “falafel plate.”) They’re also great served with toum, a Middle Eastern garlic sauce.
Falafel balls may also be eaten alone as a snack or served as part of a meze tray (assortment of appetizers). Falafel is a common dish eaten throughout the Middle East. The fritters are now found around the world as a replacement for meat and as a form of street food.
) is a deep-fried ball or patty made from ground chickpeas, fava beans, or both. Falafel is a traditional Middle Eastern food, commonly served in a pita, which acts as a pocket, or wrapped in a flatbread known as lafa; falafel also frequently refers to a wrapped sandwich that is prepared in this way.
Falafel is made from fava beans or chickpeas, or a combination of the two. The use of chickpeas is predominant in most Middle Eastern countries. The dish is usually made with chickpeas in Syria, Jordan, Lebanon, Israel and Palestine. This version is the most popular in the West.
Falafel is a balled mixture of fava beans and/or chickpeas with added spices. It is traditional to the Middle East but enjoyed all over the world. It is often served accompanied by pita bread, salad, tahini sauce, hummus or other Middle Eastern foods.
Falafel grew to become a common form of street food or fast food in the Middle East. The croquettes are regularly eaten as part of meze. During Ramadan, falafel balls are sometimes eaten as part of the iftar, the meal that breaks the daily fast after sunset.
Report Abuse. Falafel is a Middle Eastern food made from parsley, chick peas, fava beans, and a small amount of cumin and coriander (spices). Once the ingredients are all chopped up and mixed together in a paste-like substance, the falafel is formed into balls or patties and then deep-fried.