From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In the kidney, the loop of Henle (or Henle's loop, nephron loop or its Latin counterpart ansa nephroni) is the portion of a nephron that leads from the proximal convoluted tubule to the distal convoluted tubule. By means of a countercurrent multiplier system, which utilizes electrolyte pumps, the loop of Henle creates an area of high urea concentration deep in the medulla, near the papillary duct in the collecting duct system.
Kideny function decreases due to kidney atophy. The factor favoring filtrate formation at the glomerulus is the ________. Glomerular hydrostatic pressure. if the Tm for a particular amino acid is 120 mg/100 ml and the concentration of that Amino acid in the blood is 230 mg/100 ml, the amino acid will ________. T or F-Aldosterone is a hormone that causes the renal tubules to reclaim sodium ions from the filtrate. true. it does that by enlargeing the tubules and reabsorbing more water and ions. T or F-Blood pressure in the renal glomerulus is lower than in most parts of the body in order to conserve body water.
As well, blood in the vasa recta still has large proteins and ions which were not filtered through the glomerulus. This provides an oncotic pressure for ions to enter the vasa recta from the interstitium. The main function of the loop of Henle is to set up a concentration gradient. By means of a countercurrent multiplier system, which utilizes electrolyte pumps, the loop of Henle creates an area of high urea concentration deep in the medulla, near the papillary duct in the collecting duct system.
The fluid then passes through the proximal tubule, from there into the loop of Henle, then into the distal tubule, and finally into the collecting tubule (collecting duct). By allowing for reabsorption of water and some electrolytes back into the blood, the nephron also plays a vital role in the maintenance of normal fluid balance in the body. The nephron is a complex system of tubules. Blood is brought to the nephron via the afferent arteriole.
The main function of this structure is to create a concentration gradient in the medulla of the kidney. + 9 others found this useful. Sherwin Williams. Edit. Share to: 
Function of Nephron. The main functions of the nephron are related to filtering, reabsorbing and secreting glutamate, carbohydrates and solutes. The glomerulus has two cell layers as well as a basement membrane that separate it from the Bowman’s capsule. This basement membrane contains collagen and glycoprotein fibers. These substances are reabsorbed from the area in the collecting ducts which go through this area of the nephron. The ascending limb is highly permeable to salts than water so during the absorption of these salts, more water exits the descending limb which in turn creates concentrated urine.
Function of Nephron. The nephron is the basic functional and structural unit found in the kidneys. Its main functions include regulating the concentration of sodium salts and water by filtering the kidney’s blood, excreting any excess in the urine and reabsorbing the necessary amounts. These substances are reabsorbed from the area in the collecting ducts which go through this area of the nephron. The ascending limb is highly permeable to salts than water so during the absorption of these salts, more water exits the descending limb which in turn creates concentrated urine.
The capillary bed that surrounds the descending and ascending loop of Henle of juxtamedullary nephrons is called the________. Vasa recta. 104) Urine crystals in the renal pelvis are called ________. The area between the ureters and urethra is called the ________in a bladder. T or F-Aldosterone is a hormone that causes the renal tubules to reclaim sodium ions from the filtrate. true. it does that by enlargeing the tubules and reabsorbing more water and ions. T or F-Blood pressure in the renal glomerulus is lower than in most parts of the body in order to conserve body water.
The nephron consists of the renal corpuscle, the proximal convoluted tubule, the descending and ascending limbs of the loop of Henle, the distal convoluted tubule, and the collecting tubule. By allowing for reabsorption of water and some electrolytes back into the blood, the nephron also plays a vital role in the maintenance of normal fluid balance in the body. The nephron is a complex system of tubules. Blood is brought to the nephron via the afferent arteriole.
Each nephron is composed of an initial filtering component (the  renal corpuscle ) and a tubule specialized for reabsorption and secretion (the renal tubule). The renal corpuscle filters out solutes from the blood, delivering water and small solutes to the renal tubule for modification. The majority of nephrons are cortical. Cortical nephrons have a shorter loop of Henle compared to juxtamedullary nephrons. The longer loop of Henle in juxtamedullary nephrons create a hyperosmolar gradient that allows for the creation of concentrated urine.