Processing primarily occurs in the primary somatosensory area in the parietal lobe of the cerebral cortex: information is sent from the receptors via sensory nerves, through tracts in the spinal cord and finally into the brain. The primary somatosensory area in the human cortex (also called primary somatic sensory cortex or SI) is located in the postcentral gyrus of the parietal lobe and makes up four distinct fields or regions known as Brodmann areas 3a, 3b, 1, and 2.
Answer by Kelly Jameson. Confidence votes 4.3K. The primary sensory cortex (or primary somatosensory cortex) is part of the postcentral gyrus in the brain, which forms part of the parietal lobe. The main function of the primary sensory cortex is it is a receptor for the sense of touch. parietal lobe. The sensory cortex is located in the occipital lobe. The occipital lobe is the visual processing center of the brain and is the primary cortex commonly called visual one. Edit. Share to: Answered.
The primary somatosensory cortex is located in the lateral  postcentral gyrus. That structure is itself located within the  parietal lobe in the cerebral cortex. The function of the Primary Auditory Cortex is located in the part  of the Auditory system and its function is to perform basic and  higher functions in hearing.
The Somatosensory Cortex is an area of the brain, located in the parietal lobe, that processes sensory input from the skin, muscles, and joints. 
Simply stated, it is the area of the occipital lobe in the back of the brain responsible for processing visual information into an image that the person sees. The visual assoc … iation cortex is responsible for associating these images with items the person knows. The function of the Primary Auditory Cortex is located in the part  of the Auditory system and its function is to perform basic and  higher functions in hearing.
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. The primary somatosensory cortex is a region of the brain where nerve signals from the sense of touch are normally received. It is generally located in a part of the brain called the parietal lobe, in a structure called the post central gyrus. A gyrus is a ridge along the surface of the brain; there are typically several of them on the cerebral cortex, or the outer part of the brain, that increase the surface area.
The somatosensory cortex receives all sensory input from the body. Cells that are part of the brain or nerves that extend into the body are called neurons. Neurons that sense feelings in our skin, pain, visual, or auditory stimuli, all send their information to the somatosensory cortex for processing. This lesson is about the somatosensory cortex and it will cover what the somatosensory cortex is, where it is located in the brain, and what functions it serves within the body.
Like other sensory areas, there is a map of sensory space in this location, called the sensory homunculus. The primary somatosensory cortex was initially defined from surface stimulation studies of Wilder Penfield, and parallel surface potential studies of Bard, Woolsey, and Marshall. Brodmann areas 3, 1, and 2 make up the primary somatosensory cortex of the human brain (or S1). Because Brodmann sliced the brain somewhat obliquely, he encountered area 1 first; however, from anterior to posterior, the Brodmann designations are 3, 1, and 2, respectively.
The lateral postcentral gyrus is a prominent structure in the parietal lobe of the human brain. It is the location of the primary somatosensory cortex, the main sensory receptive area for the sense of touch. Brodmann areas 3, 1, and 2 make up the primary somatosensory cortex of the human brain (or S1). Because Brodmann sliced the brain somewhat obliquely, he encountered area 1 first; however, from anterior to posterior, the Brodmann designations are 3, 1, and 2, respectively.