Cortisol is a hormone released by the adrenal glands in response to stress. Once it gets into the bloodstream, it is responsible for relaying the news of stress to all parts of the body and mind. Cortisol is the hormone, for example, that triggers the “fight or flight” response to stress. 
Supplements For Adrenal Fatigue. Vitamin C. Vitamin C is one of the main vitamins hosted by the adrenals. When we are under stress we utilise vitamin C at a much faster rate. Vitamin C is a powerful antioxidant that helps to fight free radicals by donating an electron to unstable molecules.
Cortisol Reducing Foods Photo Credit Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Cortisol is a stress hormone produced by the adrenal glands. Overproduction of cortisol can have dangerous implications for overall health and wellness. Certain foods and dietary strategies are known to lower cortisol production. High-quality sources of protein can help to decrease cortisol production. Whey protein, eggs and lean animal meats contain amino acids that are essential to survival. By taking in 15 to 30 grams of protein every two to three hours, we can drastically blunt cortisol production.
Vitamin C. This powerful antioxidant vitamin is directly involved in the production of cortisol in your adrenals. So besides the other health benefits it carries (boosting your immune system, protecting from free radicals), vitamin C is also an essential building block for the recovery of your adrenal glands.
Vitamin C. This antioxidant vitamin has been shown to help reduce cortisol post exercise. One study showed that providing physically active individuals 800 mg of Vitamin C for 6-weeks prior to a 90-minute high-intensity interval running program had lower cortisol levels post-workout than the placebo group! Not to mention the individuals supplementing with Vitamin C cleared cortisol more quickly with significantly lower cortisol after 1 hour of recovery. There are other studies to support vitamin C’s effectiveness for reducing cortisol by diminishing oxidative indicators produced when cortisol is elevated. Most studies support the use of higher doses of vitamin C to help control cortisol. Consider using anywhere from 500mg to 1000mg.
Deficiencies in this vitamin can lead to adrenal stress and high cortisol levels or cortisol depletion as your body attempts to make up for the vitamin deficiency by using this hormone's overdrive mechanism, which is usually reserved for emergencies, illness and other stressful events. B-complex vitamins also promote healthy cortisol levels by supporting your metabolism and ensuring good energy levels. Minerals, such as magnesium, are also easily lost when you are stressed. Magnesium is important for proper nerve and muscle function and helps prevent the stresses that may affect your cortisol levels.
Fruits and vegetable contain many healthy phytonutrients and vitamins that can inhibit cortisol production. For example, vitamin C from citrus fruits and greens has been shown to be very effective at decreasing cortisol production. Eat as many servings of raw organic fruits and vegetables as you can. High-quality sources of protein can help to decrease cortisol production. Whey protein, eggs and lean animal meats contain amino acids that are essential to survival. By taking in 15 to 30 grams of protein every two to three hours, we can drastically blunt cortisol production.
Cortisol is released in response to stress. Cortisol is secreted by your adrenal glands in response to all types of stress, be it of emotional or physical origin. It’s essentially a “fight-or-flight” hormone that gets you ready for action. 