Directions. 1  PREPARE RED SAUCE: Heat oil in pan over medium heat& saute onion until translucent. 2  Add garlic& saute for another minute. 3  Stir in the rest of the ingredients; bring to a boil, then reduce heat& simmer uncovered for 15- 20 minutes. 4  Adjust seasoning, if necessary and remove the bay leaf. 1 Stir in the rest of the ingredients; bring to a boil, then reduce heat& simmer uncovered for 15- 20 minutes. 2  Adjust seasoning, if necessary and remove the bay leaf. 3  PREPARE CHICKEN SAUCE: Melt butter in a heavy fry pan over medium heat.
1 Add onion and cook for 3 mins over medium heat, add salt and pepper to taste. 2  Add pasta and mixed spices (ketchup, okonomiyaki sauce and milk) and stir for 1 minute over medium heat. 3  Sprinkle parmesan cheese on the pasta (optional). 4  Add a boiled egg, sliced in half (optional). 1 Boil pasta until al dente. 2  Heat the frying pan and fry the bacon and hot dog for one minute over high heat. 3  Add onion and cook for 3 mins over medium heat, add salt and pepper to taste. 4  Add pasta and mixed spices (ketchup, okonomiyaki sauce and milk) and stir for 1 minute over medium heat
1 PREPARE RED SAUCE: Heat oil in pan over medium heat& saute onion until translucent. 2  Add garlic& saute for another minute. 3  Stir in the rest of the ingredients; bring to a boil, then reduce heat& simmer uncovered for 15- 20 minutes. 4  Adjust seasoning, if necessary and remove the bay leaf. 1 Stir in the rest of the ingredients; bring to a boil, then reduce heat& simmer uncovered for 15- 20 minutes. 2  Adjust seasoning, if necessary and remove the bay leaf. 3  PREPARE CHICKEN SAUCE: Melt butter in a heavy fry pan over medium heat.
1 Add garlic& saute for another minute. 2  Stir in the rest of the ingredients; bring to a boil, then reduce heat& simmer uncovered for 15- 20 minutes. 3  Adjust seasoning, if necessary and remove the bay leaf. 4  PREPARE CHICKEN SAUCE: Melt butter in a heavy fry pan over medium heat. 1 Stir in the rest of the ingredients; bring to a boil, then reduce heat& simmer uncovered for 15- 20 minutes. 2  Adjust seasoning, if necessary and remove the bay leaf. 3  PREPARE CHICKEN SAUCE: Melt butter in a heavy fry pan over medium heat.
1 Sprinkle chicken with salt and pepper. 2  In a large skillet, cook chicken, uncovered, over medium-high heat in oil for 8-9 minutes. 3  Turn chicken; add the onion, garlic and mushrooms. Directions. 1  Sprinkle chicken with salt and pepper. 2  In a large skillet, cook chicken, uncovered, over medium-high heat in oil for 8-9 minutes. 3  Turn chicken; add the onion, garlic and mushrooms. 4  Cook 8 minutes longer or until a meat thermometer reaches 170°
Season with salt and pepper, simmer over a low flame for 10 minutes, stir in the basil leaves, simmer for five more minutes, and it's done. Figure about 1/4 cup of sauce (or more to taste) and 1/4 pound of pasta per serving; serve the pasta with grated cheese on the side. 
Neapolitan sauce, also called Napoli sauce or Napoletana sauce is the collective name given (outside Italy) to various basic tomato-based sauces derived from Italian cuisine, often served over or alongside pasta. In Naples, Neapolitan sauce is simply referred to as la salsa, which literally translates to the sauce. Basil, bay leaf, thyme, oregano, peppercorns, cloves, olives, and mushrooms may be included depending on taste preferences. Some variants include carrots and celery. The basic sauce is vegetarian, although meat such as ground beef or sausage can be added.