Variations. Piper ▲ has 1 variant: Pipere. Piper is a somewhat popular first name for women (#2292 out of 4276, Top 54%) and an even more popular last name for all people (#1537 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). How popular is Piper?
Origin of Piper: English occupational name. Meaning of Piper: pipe or flute player. Piper's Popularity in 2009: #147. A bright, musical name that's jumped five hundred places in about five years; popular with celebrities. Transferred use of the surname of English and Scandinavian origin which is derived from the Old English pipere (pípere, piper one who plays the) pipe and The Old norse (pipari, pípari piper one who plays). the pipe
English name. In English, the name Piper means-flute player.The name Piper originated as an English name. The name Piper is a unisex name and can be used for a boy or girl name (male or female). English Name Meaning-flute player. Origin-England. 
Origin of the name Piper: Transferred use of the surname of English and Scandinavian origin which is derived from the Old English pipere (pípere, piper one who plays the) pipe and The Old norse (pipari, pípari piper one who plays). The Pipe From a World Of baby Names By. teresa norman Transferred use of the surname of English and Scandinavian origin which is derived from the Old English pipere (pípere, piper one who plays the) pipe and The Old norse (pipari, pípari piper one who plays). the pipe
English Meaning: The name Piper is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Piper is: Piper. American Meaning: The name Piper is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Piper is: Piper. SoulUrge Number: 5. Expression Number: 1. People with this name have a deep inner desire for travel and adventure, and want to set their own pace in life without being governed by tradition. 
Piper is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Pi-per. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 75 in baby name popularity for girls with 3840 occurrences. It ranked 7371 in popular baby names for boys with 11 occurrences. View the Piper Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Piper has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Piper to other names. Variants of the name Piper include Pyper. Piper falls into the musical name category.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Piper. The name Piper is the transferred use of a surname originating as an occupational name – from the Middle English “pipere” signifying someone who played the pipes. The word “pipere” comes from the Germanic “pfeife” which means ‘whistle, pipe.’ The surname developed after the Norman Conquest of 1066 in the Middle Ages. Piper is a female given name in America. Even though we know it’s been around longer given some of her older namesakes out there, the name doesn’t actually appear on the U.S. popularity graphs for the first time until 1999. That makes Piper a very new addition to the panoply of American girl names.
Origin of the name Piper: Transferred use of the surname of English and Scandinavian origin which is derived from the Old English pipere (pípere, piper one who plays the) pipe and The Old norse (pipari, pípari piper one who plays). the pipe
Piper /pi-per/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used less generally as boys' name Piper) is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Piper is pipe player. Occupational name. How popular is Piper? Piper is a somewhat popular first name for women (#2292 out of 4276, Top 54%) and an even more popular last name for all people (#1537 out of 150436, Top 1%).
Baby names meanings search results: The name Piper is a baby girl name. The name Piper comes from the English origin. In English The meaning of the name Piper is: Piper. 