On the misty morning of June 22nd 1948, a former German cruise boat, the Empire Windrush, steamed up the Thames to the Tilbury Dock, London, where she disembarked some 500 hopeful settlers from Kingston, Jamaica: 492 was the official figure, but there were several stowaways as well. 
1 MV Empire Windrush, a ship, noted for and synonymous with the first significant post-war immigration of West Indian people to England, named for the river. 2  Windrush (TV series) , a BBC Television documentary marking the 50th anniversary of the arrival in Britain of the ship. Windrush may refer to: 1  MV Empire Windrush, a ship, noted for and synonymous with the first significant post-war immigration of West Indian people to England, named for the river.
She was renamed HMT Empire Windrush on 21 January 1947, for use on the Southampton-Gibraltar-Suez-Aden-Colombo-Singapore-Hong Kong route, with voyages extended to Kure in Japan after the start of the Korean War. She was acquired by the United Kingdom as a prize of war at the end of the war and renamed Empire Windrush. In British service, she continued to be used mainly as a troopship until March 1954, when the vessel caught fire and sank in the Mediterranean Sea with the loss of four crew.
Empire Windrush is best remembered today for bringing one of the first large groups of post-war West Indian immigrants to the United Kingdom, carrying 492 passengers and one stowaway on a voyage from Jamaica to London in 1948. She was acquired by the United Kingdom as a prize of war at the end of the war and renamed Empire Windrush. In British service, she continued to be used mainly as a troopship until March 1954, when the vessel caught fire and sank in the Mediterranean Sea with the loss of four crew.
The arrival of the SS Empire Windrush in June 1948 at Tilbury Dock, Essex, in England, marked the beginning of post-war mass migration. The ship had made an 8,000 mile journey from the Caribbean to London with 492 passengers on board from Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago and other islands. 
She carried 490 Caribbean men (and two women), mostly from Jamaica and Trinidad. Windrush was not the only ship to arrive in Britain with Caribbean immigrants after the Second World War, but the ship's arrival was given a lot of publicity at the time. 'Windrush' has since become a symbolic event marking the start of the Caribbean migration that was to be so influential on post-war London.
Introduction. The Empire Windrush's voyage from the Caribbean to Tilbury took place in 1948. Believe it or not, very few of the migrants intended to stay in Britain for more than a few years. If it hadn't been for the Second World War, the Windrush and her passengers might not have made the voyage at all. For the Windrush passengers who made their life in Britain, the journey to Tilbury was just the beginning-as Mike Phillips explains.
HMT Empire Windrush, originally MV Monte Rosa, was a passenger liner and cruise ship launched in Germany in 1930. During the 1930s, she operated as a German cruise ship under the name Monte Rosa. During World War II, she was operated by the German navy as a troopship. She was acquired by the United Kingdom as a prize of war at the end of the war and renamed Empire Windrush. In British service, she continued to be used mainly as a troopship until March 1954, when the vessel caught fire and sank in the Mediterranean Sea with the loss of four crew.
ON MAY 27, 1948, the Empire Windrush sailed from Jamaica for Trinidad before setting its sights on England, the colonial ‘motherland.’ Almost a month later, on June 22, the former troop-carrying steamship made its way up the Thames and docked at Tilbury in London. 