Typically germination time for Zoysiagrass seed is 10 days or more, so if you're not seeing growth by the time you hit the two-week mark, it's time to start worrying. Different lawn varieties will germinate at different times. Know how long your grass seeds should take, and the waiting will be much easier. Yes No. 
Grass seed germination always seems to take a long time, especially when you watch it closely. That makes it very disheartening when the results are less than expected. Sometimes people wait two, three, four weeks, but never see any grass. The seed may have failed to germinate. Grass Seed Germination Rates and the Effects of Storage. The label on a grass seed package provides important information, including the germination rate. A rate of 90-95% is preferred, but some grass varieties will typically be found in the 80% range.
1 GERMINATION: Under ideal conditions, hulled seeds can germinate within 3 to 7 days. 2  IF conditions are NOT ideal, it is quite normal for Bermuda seeds to take 14 to 21 days for germination to occur. 
How long does it take for seed to grow. Different seed mixtures establish at different speeds. As a general rule, hardwearing mixtures usually contain ryegrass and red fescue, two species that establish quite quickly-they can germinate in as little as 3-4 days, but 7-10 days is more average.
Concerning how long does grass seed take to grow, if the conditions are good and the variety of grass used is of the type that grows fast, within a week’s time the result may be a lush green patch in the lawn. While it may not be properly grown yet the visible result may take about two to three weeks. The normal duration at which the seed of the grass germinates is between 6 to 10 days after the seed has been planted. However it can also take from minimum 4 days to maximum forty days. The climate condition during which the seed is sown is also very essential for the seeds to germinate faster and to grow. Excess of heat, over irrigation and over-use of pesticides and insecticides may kill the germination. A temperate and warm condition is most favorable for no matter how long does grass seed take to grow. If the seed is sown during the time of year when it is wet the grass is most likely to germinate faster.
Each year of storage can result in a decrease of the grass seed germination rate by a range of 10 to 25% per year. It can still be used, but the amount applied to an area should be increased proportionately. Grass Seed Germination Rates and the Effects of Storage. The label on a grass seed package provides important information, including the germination rate. A rate of 90-95% is preferred, but some grass varieties will typically be found in the 80% range.
The seed of the grass germinates faster with the availability of proper light, water and nutrition of soil. Excess of heat, over irrigation and over-use of pesticides and insecticides may kill the germination. A temperate and warm condition is most favorable for no matter how long does grass seed take to grow. If the seed is sown during the time of year when it is wet the grass is most likely to germinate faster.
Climate and Germination. Bermuda grass seeds will germinate best if in a soil with a pH between 6 and 7. The grass grows best when the soil temperature is between 75 and 95 degrees Fahrenheit and the air temperature is between 75 and 95 F. You can expect a complete turf cover in four to six weeks. You can grow common Bermuda grass from seed in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 9 through 11. Under the right conditions, the seeds will begin germinating in five to 14 days but take 14 to 28 days to germinate completely.
How long does it take for grass seed to germinate? (See also How long does it take for seed to grow). Depending on the conditions, you can expect to see some grass seed mixtures germinate quite quickly. If conditions at the time of sowing are perfect, you may see germination is as little as 2-4 days. On average though, germination will take between 7-14 days
The germination time for grass seed ranges from 5 to 30 days depending on the variety. It can be even longer than this in cooler temperatures. This is how long it will take to actually see the grass growing. Until this point, the seed, or the soil and mulch in contact with the seed, must stay moist. 