What does Aleta mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Aleta is of Greek origin. The meaning of Aleta is footloose. It is also of English origin, where its meaning is truth. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland.
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Aleta in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Aleta in Nautical Flags page. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland.
In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 8011 in baby name popularity for girls with 14 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Aleta Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Aleta has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Aleta to other names. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland.
Personal experiences with the name Aleta: | Edit. I was named Aleta,after an Alita, who worked at the place I was adopted from. I was called Atalata, Althea, Atrela, etc growing up by some. A neighbor I had was named Melita. She once told me that she had been called about everything I had been called with an M in at the beginning of it. Over all, I love my name. I have a cousin that had a school friend named Aleta. I also found out in 10th grade that the Dannette in 11th grade, was Aleta Dannette. Her middle name was 1 letter off from my middle name. I have friends that call me Leda.
[ 3 syll. a-le-ta, al-eta ] The baby girl name Aleta is pronounced as aa-L IY-T-aa- †. Aleta is primarily used in the Greek, English, and Spanish languages, and its language of origin is Old Greek, Germanic, and Latin. In addition, Aleta is a form of the English name Alethea. Aleta is also an English form of Alice. Aleta is also an English, Greek, and Spanish form of the Hungarian, Dutch, German, Italian, English, and Greek name Alida. Aleta is an uncommon baby name for girls. At the height of its usage in 1947, 0.014% of baby girls were given the name Aleta. It ranked at #511 then. The baby name has since fallen from favor, and is now used on a very modest scale.
Its name paited on it was ALETA. Origin: Spanish from one name book I've read. Also known to a Peruvean and Italian friend I had growing up who spoke Spanish. He said it was pronounced  A-Lai-ta in Spanish. Over all, I love my name. I have a cousin that had a school friend named Aleta. I also found out in 10th grade that the Dannette in 11th grade, was Aleta Dannette. Her middle name was 1 letter off from my middle name. I have friends that call me Leda.
The name Aleta is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Aleta is: Winged. Latin Meaning: The name Aleta is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Aleta is: Winged. Spanish Meaning: The name Aleta is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Aleta is: Winged. American Meaning: The name Aleta is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Aleta is: Winged.
Aleta /ale-ta/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Aleta is footloose. Also variant of Alethea. Aleta is a very prominent first name for women (#1508 out of 4276, Top 35%) but an uncommon surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Aleta for girls. Aleta entered the list in 1940-1949 and reached its apex position of #796 in the U.S. then, but is not in the Top 1000 currently. (2014 Birth Statistics)