Sperm can not live in open air. However; sperm when ejaculated are not in open air. The ejaculate fluid (semen) protects the sperm. So long as the sperm remain wet and wit … hin the seminal fluids, it is possible for them to live two to three days. To keep them wet for that long would require ideal conditions
Naturally, this will depend on the conditions under which they're kept. Pet chickens that are properly cared for can live a relatively long time--longer than dogs, sometimes. It's common for a hen in a backyard setting to live 8-10 years, but we've also heard reports of chickens living as many as 20 years! When I grow up, Dotty, I will introduce you to my children.. 
For chickens as food, see Chicken (food) . For the broader species of which chickens form a subspecies, see Red junglefowl. For other uses, see Chicken (disambiguation) , Chooks (disambiguation) , or Red junglefowl. The average incubation period for chickens is 21 days but may depend on the temperature and humidity in the incubator. Temperature regulation is the most critical factor for a successful hatch. Variations of more than 1 °C (1.8 °F) from the optimum temperature of 37.5 °C (99.5 °F) will reduce hatch rates.
Decide if you want to take a chance on more roosters. Breeding chickens will result in about 50% male chicks. Male chickens will not contribute to your egg production, are not good eating, eat more food, and will significantly increase the noise level of your flock. Be aware that breeding chickens will always result in having to deal with roosters. Mark your eggs. If you are hatching a lot of eggs, or are breeding different types of chickens, you may find it useful to mark the eggs with dates or breeds to help you keep track of them all. You can use a pencil, marking pen, or a stamp.
Chickens usually don't simply stop laying eggs when they get to a certain age, but they will lay fewer as they get older. That said, most laying breeds will lay more or less productively in backyard terms for five or seven years. 
Pullets have been sexed by the hatchery and are usually sexed 90% accurately. Most hatcheries or feed stores will refund your money or buy back the cockerels which exceed 10%. Straight run chicks are usually less expensive, but they are 50% pullets and 50% cockerels (more or less). 
Chickens will naturally live for 6 or more years, but broiler chickens typically take less than 6 weeks to reach slaughter size. A free range or organic meat chicken will usually be slaughtered at about 14 weeks of age. The average incubation period for chickens is 21 days but may depend on the temperature and humidity in the incubator. Temperature regulation is the most critical factor for a successful hatch. Variations of more than 1 °C (1.8 °F) from the optimum temperature of 37.5 °C (99.5 °F) will reduce hatch rates.
Chickens naturally can live up to 12 years. Yet egg laying chickens are usually killed before 2 years of age (when they cease to turn a profit), and chicks raised for their flesh are killed at just 6 weeks of age. Male chicks have no economic value to the egg industry. 
The chicken (Gallus gallus domesticus) is a domesticated fowl, a subspecies of the red junglefowl. As one of the most common and widespread domestic animals, with a population of more than 24 billion in 2003, there are more chickens in the world than any other species of bird. Humans keep chickens primarily as a source of food, consuming both their meat and their eggs. The average incubation period for chickens is 21 days but may depend on the temperature and humidity in the incubator. Temperature regulation is the most critical factor for a successful hatch. Variations of more than 1 °C (1.8 °F) from the optimum temperature of 37.5 °C (99.5 °F) will reduce hatch rates.