Types of bullfighting which involve bulls fighting other bulls, rather than humans, are found in the Balkans, Turkey, the Persian Gulf, Bangladesh, Japan, Peru and Korea. The largest venue of its kind is the Plaza Mexico méxico in Central Mexico, city which 48,000 48000, people and the oldest is The La maestranza In, Seville, spain which was first used for bullfighting in. 1765
There are many historic fighting venues in the Iberian Peninsula, France and Latin America. The largest venue of its kind is the Plaza Mexico méxico in Central Mexico, city which 48,000 48000, people and the oldest is The La maestranza In, Seville, spain which was first used for bullfighting in. 1765
Spanish-style bullfighting is called a corrida de toros (literally a running of bulls), tauromaquia or fiesta and is practiced in Spain, where it originates, Mexico, Colombia, Ecuador, Venezuela, Peru, as well as in parts of Southern France. Animal rights activists claim bullfighting is a cruel or barbarous blood sport, in which the bull suffers severe stress and a slow, torturous death. A number of animal rights or animal welfare activist groups such as Antitauromaquia and StopOurShame undertake anti-bullfighting actions in Spain and other countries.
• In 1991, the Canary Islands became the first Spanish Autonomous Community to ban bullfighting, and Catalonia became the second in January 2012.]] • Exceptions should be noted, such as the area of Pamplona in northern Navarre and Bilbao in the Basque Country, with major bullfighting. Animal rights activists claim bullfighting is a cruel or barbarous blood sport, in which the bull suffers severe stress and a slow, torturous death. A number of animal rights or animal welfare activist groups such as Antitauromaquia and StopOurShame undertake anti-bullfighting actions in Spain and other countries.
Bull fighting in Spain. Bull fighting is very closely associated with Spain and can trace its origins back to 711 A.D. This is when the first bullfight took place in celebration for the crowning of King Alfonso VIII. It is very popular in Spain with several thousand Spaniards flocking to their local bull-ring each week. It is said that the total number of people watching bullfights in Spain reaches one million every year.
Bullfighting has been called Spain's favorite sport. But to call it this is wrong for two reasons: first, soccer (called futbol fútbol In) spain is the most popular; sport and, second bullfighting cannot really be called a. sport 
Bullfighting Arenas. A Spanish bullfighting arena is called the Plaza de Toros. All major Spanish cities have impressive bullrings but probably the most outstanding are those in Madrid, Seville, and Ronda. Las Ventas in Madrid. 
National Holidays of Spain. Bullfighting outline Spain has always been famous for its bull-fights as have other countries all over the world.. In Spain the bullfight is called the Fiesta Nacional (The national Sport). There are few places in Spain where a bull-ring can't be found within a short drive. Whether you like it or not-agree with it or despise it-bullfighting exists in Spain and is an important part of their history and culture. Just because we have written about bullfighting, it does NOT mean to say that we like it or agree with it.