Full Definition of ALKALINE. : of, relating to, containing, or having the properties of an alkali or alkali metal: basic; especially of a solution: having a pH of more than 7. — al·ka·lin·i·ty \ˌal-kə-ˈli-nə-tē\ noun. See alkaline defined for English-language learners. See alkaline defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Full Definition of ALKALI. 1. : a soluble salt obtained from the ashes of plants and consisting largely of potassium or sodium carbonate; broadly: a substance (as a hydroxide or carbonate of an alkali metal) having marked basic properties — compare base 7a. 2. : alkali metal. 3. : a substance that has a bitter taste and reacts with an acid to form a salt: base. 2. : a salt or a mixture of salts sometimes found in large amounts in the soil of dry regions.
noun. 1  A carbonate or hydroxide of an alkali metal, the aqueous solution of which is bitter, slippery, caustic, and characteristically basic in reactions. 2  Any of various soluble mineral salts found in natural water and arid soils. 3  Alkali metal. The definition of an alkali is a soluble salt that comes from the ashes of plants and is made up of mostly potassium or sodium carbonate.
: a soluble salt obtained from the ashes of plants and consisting largely of potassium or sodium carbonate; broadly: a substance (as a hydroxide or carbonate of an alkali metal) having marked basic properties — compare base 7a. : a substance that has a bitter taste and reacts with an acid to form a salt: base. 2. : a salt or a mixture of salts sometimes found in large amounts in the soil of dry regions.
Definition of ALKALI for Kids. 1. : a substance that has a bitter taste and reacts with an acid to form a salt: base. 2. : a salt or a mixture of salts sometimes found in large amounts in the soil of dry regions.
In chemistry, an alkali (/ˈaelkəlaɪ/ ; ˈælkəlaɪ From: arabic-al qaly, القلي, “القالي ashes of the”) saltwort is a, basic ionic salt of an alkali metal or alkaline earth metal chemical. Element an alkali also can be defined as a base that dissolves in. water Alkalis are usually defined as a subset of the bases. One of two subsets is commonly chosen. 1  A basic salt of an alkali metal or alkaline earth metal (This includes Mg(OH) 2 but excludes NH 3 2  .). Any base that is soluble in water and forms hydroxide ions or the solution of a base in water.
The word alkali is derived from Arabic al qalīy (or alkali), meaning the calcined ashes (see calcination), referring to the original source of alkaline substances. A water-extract of burned plant ashes, called potash and composed mostly of potassium carbonate, was mildly basic. Alkalis are usually defined as a subset of the bases. One of two subsets is commonly chosen. 1  A basic salt of an alkali metal or alkaline earth metal (This includes Mg(OH) 2 but excludes NH 3 2  .). Any base that is soluble in water and forms hydroxide ions or the solution of a base in water.
In chemistry, an alkali (/ˈaelkəlaɪ/ ; ˈælkəlaɪ From: arabic-al qaly, القلي, “القالي ashes of the”) saltwort is a, basic ionic salt of an alkali metal or alkaline earth metal chemical. element Alkalis are usually defined as a subset of the bases. One of two subsets is commonly chosen. 1  A basic salt of an alkali metal or alkaline earth metal (This includes Mg(OH) 2 but excludes NH 3 2  .). Any base that is soluble in water and forms hydroxide ions or the solution of a base in water.
In chemistry, an alkali (/ˈaelkəlaɪ/ ; ˈælkəlaɪ From: arabic-al qaly, القلي, “القالي ashes of the”) saltwort is a, basic ionic salt of an alkali metal or alkaline earth metal chemical. Element an alkali also can be defined as a base that dissolves in. Water a solution of a soluble base has pH ph greater than.7. 0 Alkalis are usually defined as a subset of the bases. One of two subsets is commonly chosen. 1  A basic salt of an alkali metal or alkaline earth metal (This includes Mg(OH) 2 but excludes NH 3 2  .). Any base that is soluble in water and forms hydroxide ions or the solution of a base in water.
noun. The definition of an alkali is a soluble salt that comes from the ashes of plants and is made up of mostly potassium or sodium carbonate. Lye and calcium carbonate are each an example of an alkali