She was born Lesley Hornby on 19 September 1949, and was brought up in the northwest London suburb of Neasden. She was the third daughter of Nellie Lydia (nee Née), reeman a factory worker for a printing, firm And William Norman, hornby a master carpenter and joiner From. Lancashire her maternal grandfather Was. jewish Twiggy in 1967, at the height of her modelling career, showing the look that made her famous. One month after the Daily Express article, Twiggy posed for her first shoot for Vogue. A year later, she had appeared in 13 separate fashion shoots in international Vogue editions.
Lesley Lawson (nee Née; hornby born 19 september), 1949 widely known by the Nickname, twiggy is An english, model actress and. Singer in the-mid, 1960s she became a Prominent british teenage model of swinging Sixties london with others such As Penelope. tree Twiggy in 1967, at the height of her modelling career, showing the look that made her famous. One month after the Daily Express article, Twiggy posed for her first shoot for Vogue. A year later, she had appeared in 13 separate fashion shoots in international Vogue editions.
She was born Lesley Hornby on 19 September 1949, and was brought up in the northwest London suburb of Neasden. She was the third daughter of Nellie Lydia (nee Née), reeman a factory worker for a printing, firm And William Norman, hornby a master carpenter and joiner From. lancashire Twiggy in 1967, at the height of her modelling career, showing the look that made her famous. One month after the Daily Express article, Twiggy posed for her first shoot for Vogue. A year later, she had appeared in 13 separate fashion shoots in international Vogue editions.
Twiggy was born in north London on September 19th, 1949. She was named The Face of '66 by the Daily Express. In the mid 60's at 16 years of age, Twiggy became internationally known as the world's first supermodel, her photographic modeling success epitomising the age. The musical ran for nearly two years and she was nominated for a Tony Award for her performance. Twiggy continued to act in film and TV in the U.S. and U.K. with parts in The Doctor and the Devils, Club Paradise, The Blues Brothers, The Little Match Girl, and Young Charlie Chaplin to name but a few.
1960s Fashion Icon. Born Lesley Hornby on September 19, 1949 in London, England, Twiggy first rose to fame as a model in the 1960s. She has since established herself as an actress, singer and television personality. Twiggy is the youngest of three sisters. Synopsis. With her thin build and wide eyes, Twiggy became one of the world's first supermodels and face of London's swinging '60s mod scene. She has also made numerous appearances on television, and her films include The Boy Friend (1971), The Blues Brothers (1981) and Madame Sousatzka (1989).
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Twiggy (Lesley Lawson) was born Lesley Hornby in Neasden, London, England on September 19, 1949. Lesley Twiggy Hornby Lawson (b. 19 September 1949) is and English  model, actress and singer. She was the 3rd daughter of Nellie Lydia  and William Hornby. Her sisters wer … e Shirley and Vivien. They had  no brothers.
Jeordie Osbourne White (born June 20, 1971), better known by his stage name Twiggy (formerly Twiggy Ramirez), is a professional musician. He was the bassist of industrial metal band Marilyn Manson from 1993-2002 before moving on to A Perfect Circle in 2002, and Nine Inch Nails and Goon Moon in 2005. 
Twiggy was initially known for her thin build (thus her nickname) and her androgynous look consisting of large eyes, long eyelashes, and short hair. In 1966, she was named The Face of 1966 by the Daily Express and voted British Woman of the Year. Twiggy in 1967, at the height of her modelling career, showing the look that made her famous. One month after the Daily Express article, Twiggy posed for her first shoot for Vogue. A year later, she had appeared in 13 separate fashion shoots in international Vogue editions.