Meaning: The name Ellie means 'glowing light'. Girls called Ellie can be very sensitive, love to laugh and have a great sense of humour, and love animals like hamsters, horses and big cats. They are a great friend to anyone that knows them but can sometimes be a bit stubborn and get grumpy quite often. Ellie means light and is a name for usually a girl/female!!!!!!!!!Thanks for sayin you like it btww x:D. Ellie is my best friend and she does not have an atpillowude problem thankyou very much! quite like the name, unique. a one of a kind type of girl. consider yourself lucky to know a chick named ellie.
What does Ellie mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Ellie is of Greek origin. The meaning of Ellie is light. It is also of English origin, where its meaning is foreign, the other. She was named Aenor after her mother, and was called by the Proven al phrase alia Aenor the other Aenor in order to distinguish her from her mother. Ellie is a diminutive (nickname) of Eleanor. The name Eleanor is derived from the French form of the Provencal name Alienor. Eleanor of Aquitaine (Ali nor d Aquitaine, 1122 - 1204) inherited her father's domain when she succeeded him as suo jure Duchess of Aquitaine and Countess of Poitiers at the age of fifteen
Meaning of Ellie. English name. In English, the name Ellie means-Diminutive of Ellen: A variant of the Greek Helen, meaning shining light, or most beautiful woman.. Other origins for the name Ellie include-English, Greek, French.The name Ellie is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-Diminutive of Ellen: A variant of the Greek Helen, meaning shining light, or most beautiful woman. Origin-English. Alternate Origins-Greek French. Expression num - 7.
The first thing you should know if you are considering Ellie for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Ellie is a girl name. The name Ellie is of Greek origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world. 
Ellie is a very prominent first name for women (#1198 out of 4276, Top 28%) and a slightly less prominent last name for both adults and children (#87729 out of 150436, Top 58%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Ellie for girls. 
Ellie is also a form of the English Helen. Forms of Ellie include the Scottish Eilidh, the English Elle, the English Ellee, and the name Elli. Ellie is a popular baby girl name, and it is also perceived as trendy. The name has been increasing in popularity since the 1990s
Split and merge into it. Answer by Sarah Xx. Ellie is a short form of a number of names that start, end or have the syllable ~el in their name. For example girls with the name Elizabeth, Ella, Helen, Rachel, Adelaide, Ellen, Melody, Melissa, Eleanor, Melanie may be nicknamed as Ellie. As a result the name is one of the most commonly found in verbal usage, though it may not be used as often for official purposes.
French Meaning: The name Ellie is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Ellie is: Aintroduced into Britain in 12th century AD by King Henry II's wife, Eleanor of Aquitaine. American Meaning: The name Ellie is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Ellie is: Aintroduced into Britain in 12th century AD by King Henry II's wife, Eleanor of Aquitaine. English Meaning: The name Ellie is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Ellie is: AGreek Helen, meaning shining light, or most beautiful woman. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 7. People with this name have a deep inner desire to use their abilities in leadership, and to have personal independence.