Overall, there are ten times the number of bacteria in the body as actual human cells, and this colonization of bacteria (good or bad) can weigh up to three pounds. With such a large concentration of bacteria in our bodies, it is logical that we depend rather heavily on them for health. Beneficial bacteria is necessary to properly digest food (especially starches) and to absorb nutrients. It plays a big role in overall immunity. With the rise of digestive problems like IBS, Crohn’s disease, Celiac Disease, colitis, allergies, etc., a good dose of beneficial bacteria certainly wouldn’t hurt.
Bacteria aren’t all bad, in fact you couldn’t survive without some bacteria! Good bacteria in your gut, probiotics like GI Jake, help digest your food and fight invading microbes. 
Good bacteria act as microscopic bouncers for the bowels, waving in desirable nutrients and slamming the door on dangerous viruses and killer bugs. They do this with some help from the mucosal barrier, which coats every inch of the gut’s 1,000-square-foot surface to form a slippery, protective layer. The relationship between the gut and well-behaved bacteria is mutually beneficial. Because the gut is porous (that’s how it absorbs nutrients from food), it’s also vulnerable to invasion. Over a person’s lifetime, the GI tract handles roughly 60 tons of food.
The populations of bacteria that live in your gut are a combination of both good and bad bacteria. And while you might think that you would want to get rid of all the bad bacteria and keep only good bacteria, it is actually the balance between the good bacteria and bad bacteria that is considered the healthiest. If you could count all the bacteria in your gut, you would find that they outnumber the total number of cells in your body by a large number. The cells that make up your body (heart, liver, bone, and brain cells) add up to around 10 13 cells (10,000,000,000,000).
Healthy bacteria produce toxins that make it hard for bad bacteria like Clostridium to grow. Harmful bacteria and yeasts grow when there is not a strong population of good bacteria around. In fact, experimentally, animals with low amounts of good bacteria are very easy to infect with bad bacteria. If you could count all the bacteria in your gut, you would find that they outnumber the total number of cells in your body by a large number. The cells that make up your body (heart, liver, bone, and brain cells) add up to around 10 13 cells (10,000,000,000,000).
You cannot escape bacteria, they are everywhere! The good thing is that very few bacteria are harmful, but bad bacteria aren’t much fun. Bad bacteria like Pat O’Gen make you sick, while other bad bacteria spoil your food and water, making it unsafe. Bad bacteria love when you or your environment is unhygienic or dirty. 
Probiotics contain live bacteria and can help a body build up a supply of good bacteria naturally. One of the more than 400 types of bacteria that are in a human body at any time. Maintaining a healthy balance of good bacteria can reduce a person's risk of developing respiratory illness. More than 400 types of bacteria live in the human digestive system. Many of these bacteria types are good bacteria — they help the digestive system to do its job. Beneficial bacteria, like acidophilus and bifidobacterium, may also prevent disease by making an unfavorable environment for less desirable bacteria. Good bacteria can do several things to promote health
The good bacteria are bacteria such as Lactobacillus acidophilus, Lactobacillus bulgaricus, Bifidobacterium bifidum, and others. The good bacteria help us digest food, maintain a healthy gut, provide us with nutrients and vitamins, and fight off bad bacteria. These good bacteria can be taken as a probiotic supplement. If you could count all the bacteria in your gut, you would find that they outnumber the total number of cells in your body by a large number. The cells that make up your body (heart, liver, bone, and brain cells) add up to around 10 13 cells (10,000,000,000,000).
They discovered that people who had better levels of good bacteria and bad bacteria were more likely to be a healthy weight and it had something to do with the way the bacteria processed the starch in people's diets. More than 400 types of bacteria live in the human digestive system. Many of these bacteria types are good bacteria — they help the digestive system to do its job. Beneficial bacteria, like acidophilus and bifidobacterium, may also prevent disease by making an unfavorable environment for less desirable bacteria. Good bacteria can do several things to promote health