The record includes an annual report of the person’s progress towards personal goals. Rolled into Support Plan standard The current APD approved assessment is in the record. The person’s access to and involvement in community is. Delmarva iBudget Tool Revisions Quick Reference Guide – Waiver Support Coordination ... The Support Coordinator is aware of the person’s history regarding abuse, neglect, and/or exploitation. The Support Coordinator assists the person to define abuse, neglect, and exploitation including how the person would report any incidents.
Within five working days of receiving the APD Area Office response, the waiver support coordinator will notify the service provider through submission of a new service authorization of the updated changes to the cost plan and the change in the needs of the recipient. A comprehensive description of these changes, including updated assessment information and sufficient information concerning the change in service needs should be thoroughly documented in an update to the support plan and the waiver support coordinator’s progress notes.
1 A minimum of 60 hours of pre-service training is required consisting of 34 hours of statewide pre-service training and 26 hours of district specific training which includes orientation to the district, local resources and local operational procedures. 1 The total caseload may not exceed the equivalent of 43 full-time individuals served. 2  Support coordinators are reimbursed at a monthly rate of $125.71 per individual receiving full support coordination and $62.86 per individual receiving limited support coordination.
The Support Coordinator monitors to ensure person’s safety needs are addressed. The Support Coordinator monitors to ensure person’s safety needs are addressed. The Support Coordinator is aware of the person’s history regarding abuse, neglect, and/or exploitation. The Support Coordinator assists the person to define abuse, neglect, and exploitation including how the person would report any incidents.
APD Approved Trainers of Waiver Support Coordination. The third-party individuals listed below are approved by APD to provide classroom statewide training for Waiver Support Coordination. You are welcome to email any of them to discuss available trainings offered
The Support Coordinator documents referrals to non-HCBS waiver funded resources based upon the person’s expressed need or outcome. The Support Coordinator assists the person to increase community participation and involvement. The Support Coordinator is aware of the person’s history regarding abuse, neglect, and/or exploitation. The Support Coordinator assists the person to define abuse, neglect, and exploitation including how the person would report any incidents.
The provider must accept all recipients who select the provider for waiver support coordination services and not reject any recipient referred to them or who selects them from within the geographic boundaries previously approved by the APD Area. The APD may grant exceptions to this requirement in writing. A comprehensive description of these changes, including updated assessment information and sufficient information concerning the change in service needs should be thoroughly documented in an update to the support plan and the waiver support coordinator’s progress notes.
Not Just For Support Coordinators! Resources= Empowerment. We are here to help support coordinators, providers, families, & self advocates. Every person that gets on the medicaid waiver program receives a service called Support Coordination, which is a form of case management. Support Coordinators assist individuals and their families to access supports and services on their own. This site provides easy access to many valuable resources
The waiver support coordinator is responsible for assessing a recipient’s needs, preferences and future goals (outcomes). From that information, the waiver support coordinator assists the recipient in developing a support plan and cost plan. A comprehensive description of these changes, including updated assessment information and sufficient information concerning the change in service needs should be thoroughly documented in an update to the support plan and the waiver support coordinator’s progress notes.
The development of a competency based, aging specialization training for the APD Waiver Support Coordinators and providers who provide in-home support services. This is a Request for Information (RFI) only. 