2. stoma-a mouth or mouthlike opening (especially one created by surgery on the surface of the body to create an opening to an internal organ). colostomy-a surgical operation that creates an opening from the colon to the surface of the body to function as an anus. 
One well-known form of an artificial stoma is a colostomy, which is a surgically created opening in the large intestine that allows the removal of feces out of the body, bypassing the rectum, to drain into a pouch or other collection device. The historical practice of trepanation was also a type of stoma. The point of exiting is what is known as the stoma. For greatest success and to minimize negative effects, it is preferable to perform this procedure as low down in the tract as possible, as this allows the maximal amount of natural digestion to occur before eliminating fecal matter from the body.
Surgical procedures in which stomata are created are ended in the suffix-ostomy and begin with a prefix denoting the organ or area being operated on. In anatomy, a natural stoma is any opening in the body, such as the mouth. Any hollow organ can be manipulated into an artificial stoma as necessary. This includes the esophagus, stomach, duodenum, ileum, colon, pleural cavity, ureters, urinary bladder, and kidney pelvis. The point of exiting is what is known as the stoma. For greatest success and to minimize negative effects, it is preferable to perform this procedure as low down in the tract as possible, as this allows the maximal amount of natural digestion to occur before eliminating fecal matter from the body.
In botany, a stoma (plural stomata), also called a stomate (plural stomates) (from Greek στόμα, mouth), is a pore, found in the epidermis of leaves, stems, and other organs, that is used to control gas exchange.
stoma. 1. a mouthlike opening. 2. an incised opening that is kept open for drainage or other purposes, such as the opening in the abdominal wall for colostomy, ureterostomy, and ileal conduit. adj., adj sto´mal. Patient Care. Stenosis is one of the most common problems associated with a stoma. The cause is formation of scar tissue at the point at which the segment of intestine passes through the abdominal wall. Treatment may consist of progressive dilation of the opening to break down structures causing the stricture.
A stoma (plural stomata, from Greek στόμα mouth) is an opening, either natural or surgically created, which connects a portion of the body cavity to the outside environment. The point of exiting is what is known as the stoma. For greatest success and to minimize negative effects, it is preferable to perform this procedure as low down in the tract as possible, as this allows the maximal amount of natural digestion to occur before eliminating fecal matter from the body.
A colostomy is an opening in the belly (abdominal wall) that’s made during surgery. The end of the colon (large intestine) is brought through this opening to form a stoma. Where the stoma will be on the abdomen depends on which part of the colon is used to make it.
A colostomy is an opening -- called a stoma -- that connects the colon to the surface of the abdomen. This provides a new path for waste material and gas to leave the body.A colostomy can be permanent or temporary.
stoma. pl. stomas, stomata [Gr.]. 1. a mouthlike opening. 2. an incised opening that is kept open for drainage or other purposes, such as the opening in the abdominal wall for colostomy, ureterostomy and ileal conduit. Stenosis is one of the most common problems associated with a stoma. The cause is formation of scar tissue at the point at which the segment of intestine passes through the abdominal wall. Treatment may consist of progressive dilation of the opening to break down structures causing the stricture.