In Biomes. The tundra is an unusually cold and dry climate. Precipitation  totals 6-10 inches of rain a year, which includes melted snow. This  is almost as little as the world's dries … t deserts. Coupled with  strong and drying winds, the tundra is an extreme weather biome. 
The average winter temperature is -34 C (-30 F), but the average summer temperature is 3-12 C (37-54 F) which enables this biome to sustain life. Rainfall may vary in different regions of the arctic. Yearly precipitation, including melting snow, is 15 to 25 cm (6 to 10 inches). Soil is formed slowly. 
The growing season ranges from 50 to 60 days. The average winter temperature is -34 C (-30 F), but the average summer temperature is 3-12 C (37-54 F) which enables this biome to sustain life. Rainfall may vary in different regions of the arctic. Yearly precipitation, including melting snow, is 15 to 25 cm (6 to 10 inches). Soil is formed slowly. Tundra is the coldest of all the biomes. Tundra comes from the Finnish word tunturi, meaning treeless plain. It is noted for its frost-molded landscapes, extremely low temperatures, little precipitation, poor nutrients, and short growing seasons. Dead organic material functions as a nutrient pool.
Precipitation in the tundra totals 150 to 250 mm a year, including melted snow. That's less than most of the world's greatest deserts! Still, the tundra is usually a wet place because the low temperatures cause evaporation of water to be slow. 
Annual Precipitation. Precipitation in the tundra totals 150 to 250 mm a year, including melted snow. That's less than most of the world's greatest deserts! Still, the tundra is usually a wet place because the low temperatures cause evaporation of water to be slow. Much of the arctic has rain and fog in the summers
guido72/iStock/Getty Images. Precipitation. According to Blue Planet Biomes, the climate of the tundra is extremely dry with precipitation levels similar to those of tropical deserts. The average precipitation, including melting snow, in the tundra is between 6 and 10 inches per year. Coupled with strong drying winds, the annual precipitation makes the tundra an area of extreme weather. 
The tundra climate is midway between sub-arctic and ice cap climates. Tundra conditions exist throughout much of Greenland, in parts of Alaska, northern Canada and in northern Russia. Typically, a tundra will only exist between latitudes of 60 and 75 degrees North. The city of Nome, Alaska, is in a tundra environment. The city's annual precipitation is 18.4 inches per year. By contrast, Point Barrow, the northernmost United States city, has an annual precipitation of 4.3 inches.
The tundra is an unusually cold and dry climate. Precipitation totals 6-10 inches of rain a year, which includes melted snow. This is almost as little as the world's driest deserts. This biome feels freezing most of the year. The average precipitation per year is more than 18 inches, and most of it falls as the snow. Average precipitation per season is 4.5 inches. The type of precipitation that falls in this climate is mostly snow in the winter, and in the summer it is rain, with occasional snow.