Reginald is a very prominent first name for men (#202 out of 1220, Top 16%) and a slightly less prominent last name for all people (#104819 out of 150436, Top 70%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Reginald for boys.hown below is a comparison of the usage of Reginald and associated names. Ronald (#397 the previous year) , Ronnie (#755) , Rene (#796) , Ronaldo, Ronny, Ron, Reynaldo, Reinaldo, Reinhold, Reggie and Reynold are the popular related forms of Reginald (#805 the previous year) .
Shown below is a comparison of the usage of Reginald and associated names. Ronald (#397 the previous year) , Ronnie (#755) , Rene (#796) , Ronaldo, Ronny, Ron, Reynaldo, Reinaldo, Reinhold, Reggie and Reynold are the popular related forms of Reginald (#805 the previous year) .
Etymology and history [edit]. The name is derived from the Latin Reginaldus, which has been influenced by the Latin word regina, meaning  queen . This Latin name is a Latinisation of a Germanic language name. This Germanic name is composed of two elements: the first ragin, meaning advice, counsel, decision; the second element is wald, meaning rule, ruler. The Old German form of the name is Raginald; Old French forms are Reinald and Reynaud.he Latin Reginaldus was used as a Latin form of cognate names, such as the Old Norse Roegnvaldr, rögnvaldr and The Gaelic ragnall And. Raghnall Another french, Form, renouard was introduced by The. Visigoths by the 18th and 19th, centuries the alternate Spelling renoir also came into. use
[ 2 syll. re-gi-nal(d) , reg-ina-ld ] The baby boy name Reginald is pronounced R-JH-ih-NahLD †. Reginald's language of origin is Germanic and it is used largely in the English language. Reginald is a variant of Reynold (English). Reggie (English pet form), Reggy (Dutch and English pet form), and Reg (English contraction) are variants of Reginald. See also the related form, Rex (English, French, and German).
From the Middle Latin Reginaldus, which is derived from the Old High German Raganald, Raginold, compound names composed from the elements ragin (advice, judgment, counsel) and wald (ruler). The name was introduced to England by the Normans. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.ersonal experiences with the name Reginald: | Edit. I have personal exerience with the name Reginald because this was My great great grandfather's name and I got to say is keep your family memmber's name in the family to onner them!!
Personal experiences with the name Reginald: | Edit. I have personal exerience with the name Reginald because this was My great great grandfather's name and I got to say is keep your family memmber's name in the family to onner them!!
Reginald /regi-nald/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced REJ-a-nold. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Reginald is  ruler 's advisor. From Reginaldus, influenced by Latin Regina meaning queen. Variant of Reynold and Ronald. Popular in Britain in the 19th century.hown below is a comparison of the usage of Reginald and associated names. Ronald (#397 the previous year) , Ronnie (#755) , Rene (#796) , Ronaldo, Ronny, Ron, Reynaldo, Reinaldo, Reinhold, Reggie and Reynold are the popular related forms of Reginald (#805 the previous year) .
The name Reginald is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Reginald is: Powerful ruler. American Meaning: The name Reginald is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Reginald is: Powerful ruler. Teutonic Meaning: The name Reginald is a Teutonic baby name. In Teutonic the meaning of the name Reginald is: Strong judgment. English Meaning: The name Reginald is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Reginald is: Mighty counselor-ruler.
In literature, Reginald Wilfer is a character in the Dickens' novel Our Mutual Friend, and is the first name of capable and oh-so-proper butler Jeeves in the P.G. Wodehouse books, and, indeed, it still reflects his pompous image.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Reginald. Reginald is an English masculine name developed from the Germanic Raginald derived from the elements “ragin” meaning “advice, counsel” and “wald” meaning “rule”.