All CNS (central nervous system, i.e. brain and spinal cord) fibres are myelinated. The only difference between myelination in the CNS and the PNS (peripheral nervous system) is the type of cell responsible for myelination. In the PNS these are Schwann cells. Each of these wraps around and insulates a short length (about 1mm) of a single axon. In the CNS, oligodendrocytes provide myelination. These cells project to and wrap a portion of several axons so they also provide a kind of '3D scaffolding' as well as myelination.
Best Answer: schwann cells are responsible for myelination of the PNS while oligodendrocytes myelinate axons in the CNS. a single schwann cell forms a single myelin sheath while oligodendrocytes can form several sheaths of myelin. 
The PNS (Peripheral Nervous System)'s function is carry impulses from the sensory receptors to the CNS and from the CNS to the appropriate glands or muscles. CNS (central ner … vous system) is the integrating and command centers of the nervous system. CNS or Central Nervous System connects the brain and spinal cord sending messages to and form the brain to the spinal cord. PNS or Peripheral Nervous System connects the cran … ial and spinal nerves relaying info to and from.
(Redirected from Myelination). Myelin is a fatty white substance that surrounds the axon dielectric (electrically insulating) material that forms a layer, the myelin sheath, usually around only the axon of a neuron. It is essential for the proper functioning of the nervous system. It is an outgrowth of a type of glial cell. The production of the myelin sheath is called myelination. In humans, myelination begins in the 14th week of fetal development, although little myelin exists in the brain at the time of birth.
The nervous system is divided into the central nervous system (CNS) and the peripheral nervous system (PNS). The central nervous system is limited to the brain and spinal cord, all other nervous tissue belongs to the peripheral nervous system. An individual nerve cell can have components in both the CNS and the PNS. The peripheral nervous system has motor components called efferent neurons (because they arise in the CNS and head away from it to the periphery), and sensory components called afferent neurons (because the impulse is initiated in a specialized receptor in the PNS and heads toward the CNS).
Schwann cells make myelin in the peripheral nervous system (PNS: nerves) and oligodendrocytes in the central nervous system (CNS: brain and spinal cord). In the PNS, one Schwann cell forms a single myelin sheath (Figure 1A). Intriguingly, in normally unmyelinated fibers, forced expression of neuregulin 1 type III in the postganglionic fibers of sympathetic neurons grown in culture can be forced to myelinate. Thus, the level of neuregulin 1 type III on the PNS axons is a key instructive signal for myelination. Furthermore, above the threshold, the myelin formation is correlated with the amount of neuregulin 1 type III presented by the axon to the Schwann cell
Cells of the Nervous System. The nervous system is made up of two types of cells: neurons and glia. Neurons are the fundamental cellular unit of the central nervous system (CNS) and peripheral nervous system (PNS). Essential features of neurons: 1  The purpose of neurons is to receive, process, and transfer information. 2  This information is made up of chemical or electrical signals. 
1 Node of Ranvier-regions of the axon that lie between the Schwann cells where the plasma membrane of a myelinated axon is close to the extracellular fluid. 2  Neuroglia-cells in the central nervous system that help to support, protect, nourish, and maintain the neurons (Fig. 1 Ganglia-groups of neuron cell bodies that lie peripheral to the central nervous system in vertebrates. 2  Bipolar neurons-cell body located near the middle of the axon; characteristic of retinal neurons. 3  Unipolar neurons-cell body lies off to one side of axon; characteristic of sensory neurons.
These signals between neurons occur via synapses, specialized connections with other cells. Neurons can connect to each other to form neural networks. Neurons are the core components of the brain and spinal cord of the central nervous system (CNS), and of the ganglia of the peripheral nervous system (PNS). A typical neuron consists of a cell body (soma), dendrites, and an axon. The term neurite is used to describe either a dendrite or an axon, particularly in its undifferentiated stage.