While it's not as obvious from the title, Nobody To Blame is actually about drinking, just the darker side of it. It's about an alcoholic who ruined his life and his marriage in the process through excessive drinking. Last week he had Toby Keith on the show for the debut performance of Rum Is The Reason, and this week Willie Nelson and John Mellencamp performed Nelson's 1965 track Night Life..
She built her a bonfire with my old six string/ Took all my good whiskey and poured it down the drain/ And I got nobody to blame but me, Stapleton sings on the song with a raspy twang. Last week he had Toby Keith on the show for the debut performance of Rum Is The Reason, and this week Willie Nelson and John Mellencamp performed Nelson's 1965 track Night Life..
In literal terms, this is the most negative song ever recorded. The word no appears 100 times and nobody gets sung 46 times, according to rock critic Dave Marsh. This was originally recorded in 1962 by the Isley Brothers, who wrote it in the studio. The Human Beinz were a bar band from Youngstown, Ohio, who originally spelled their band name Human Beingz-the name was spelled wrong on their record contracts and that's how it stayed. Nobody But Me came out in 1968 when there were a lot of music varieties in rock & roll. Psychedelic rock, folk-rock, bubble gum rock, soft rock, pop, and hard rock. After it faded, we never heard from The Human Beinz again.
The Isley Brothers [edit]. The Isley Brothers' original version, released as a single on Wand 131, failed to make the pop or R&B charts. The Human Beinz [edit]. The song was covered by Youngstown, Ohio 's The Human Beinz and made them one-hit wonders after the song reached number eight on the Billboard pop singles chart in 1968. The Human Beinz' recording was a reworking and extension of the last part of the Isley Brothers' original song.
Chris Stapleton is riding high this month after receiving three nominations at this year's coming CMAs for Male Vocalist of the Year, New Artist of the Year and Album of the Year for his debut album Traveler. Now he's followed that up with a performance of Nobody To Blame on The Late Show With Stephen Colbert. Last week he had Toby Keith on the show for the debut performance of Rum Is The Reason, and this week Willie Nelson and John Mellencamp performed Nelson's 1965 track Night Life..
Nobody but Me  is a song written by O'Kelly, Rudolph, and Ronald Isley of The Isley Brothers and first recorded by The Isley Brothers in 1962. The most commercially successful and widely known version to date is the 1968 US Top 10 garage rock hit by The Human Beinz which was their only chart success. The Human Beinz [edit]. The song was covered by Youngstown, Ohio 's The Human Beinz and made them one-hit wonders after the song reached number eight on the Billboard pop singles chart in 1968. The Human Beinz' recording was a reworking and extension of the last part of the Isley Brothers' original song.
The song was covered by Youngstown, Ohio 's The Human Beinz and made them one-hit wonders after the song reached number eight on the Billboard pop singles chart in 1968. The Human Beinz [edit]. The song was covered by Youngstown, Ohio 's The Human Beinz and made them one-hit wonders after the song reached number eight on the Billboard pop singles chart in 1968. The Human Beinz' recording was a reworking and extension of the last part of the Isley Brothers' original song.
Country Music Award nominee Chris Stapleton performs Nobody To Blame from his debut album Traveller.. 
The parade of country artists on The Late Show continues next week with Don Henley on Monday. Watch Stapleton perform below. See More Chris Stapleton Stephen Colbert The Late Show with Stephen Colbert Toby Keith Willie Nelson John Mellencamp Waylon Jennings. Last week he had Toby Keith on the show for the debut performance of Rum Is The Reason, and this week Willie Nelson and John Mellencamp performed Nelson's 1965 track Night Life..