Identifying Features. There are two types of centipedes living in the Sonoran Desert. One is the giant desert centipede (Scolopendra heros) , and the other is the common desert centipede (Scolopendra polymorpha) . They both can be identified by their flattened body made of many segments. 
Common Desert Centipede. The common desert centipede typically grows 4-5 inches long. It is brown and tan, with dark striped between each body segment, which lends it another nickname – the tiger centipede. Its colors are highly variable, and can range from olive brown, to yellowish, to bluish tints. House Centipede. A smaller, but more common, variety of centipede in Arizona is the house centipede. Many people recognize the house centipede as a beneficial creature that feeds on other insects in the home, such as silverfish, spiders and cockroaches.
There two types that inhabit Arizona, primarily in the desert regions. The most common is the desert centipede and the other is the Giant Arizona Centipede which can reach a length of up to 8 inches. It is a reddish color with a blackish head. Both varieties have a set of claws at each end which is used to penetrate the skin while injecting venom. 
Giant Desert Centipede. This centipede can be much larger than the common desert centipede, but rumors of it growing to over a foot long are inaccurate. Giant desert centipedes are typically 6-8 inches long, and have rust or orange-colored bodies with yellowish legs and dark black or bluish heads. House Centipede. A smaller, but more common, variety of centipede in Arizona is the house centipede. Many people recognize the house centipede as a beneficial creature that feeds on other insects in the home, such as silverfish, spiders and cockroaches.
The Giant Desert Centipede (Scolopendra heros) can grow up to 8 inches long. The body is usually orange to yellowish-tan, often with alternating black, and the head and tail segments are black. The common desert centipede (Scolopendra polymorpha) is 4- to 5 inches long, and brown to tan. Centipedes have a flattened, segmented body with one pair of legs per segment. If the centipede is not moving, it can be hard to distinguish the back end from the front end because both have antenna-like appendages
The Common Desert Centipede is also known as the banded centipede or tiger centipede. It is common in the Sonoran Desert emerging on warm nights to hunt crickets, termites and other arthropods. By day centipedes retreat underground to escape excessive heat and drying. Large specimens can exceed 100 mm in length and as such are top predators in the Sonoran Desert invertebrate community.
Renee Renée. Lizotte centipedes are arthropods that have elongated bodies with one pair of legs per. Segment they range in size from less than an inch to several. Inches the giant desert centipede is usually 6 to 8 (inches 15 to 20) cm, long while the common desert centipede is 4 to 5 (inches 10 to 13) cm. long They range in size from less than an inch to several inches. The giant desert centipede is usually 6 to 8 inches (15 to 20 cm) long, while the common desert centipede is 4 to 5 inches (10 to 13 cm) long. The larger giant desert centipede is orange with a black head and tail. This warning coloration advertises the centipede as dangerous.
Arizona Giant Centipede. There are quite a few venomous creatures here in Arizona, and one of the most impressive is the Arizona Giant Centipede (Scolopendra heros arizonensis). These huge centipedes can grow to over 8 inches (20 cm) long.
(Class-Chilopoda). Centipedes of the United States, especially the larger ones such as the giant desert centipede (Scolopendra heros) and the banded desert centipede (Scolopendra polymorpha), can inflict an intensely painful, though rarely (if ever) fatal, bite, or more accurately, a pinch. 