Hanging Out on an Island. The standard overhang of an island countertop -- on the side designed to sit at and tuck stools underneath -- is 12 inches. If you plan to extend the counter farther, you need to add supports such as legs, or wood corbels or metal L-brackets that extend half the overhang’s distance.
The standard vanity counter top depth. Usually countertops overhang the doors by about one half of an inch. So, if your finished box size, including the door is twenty one and three quarters inches deep, then your finished top will be 22 1/4” in depth. The cut size should be 22” plus 1/2” scribe material.
A typical countertop overhang extends 1 to 1 1/2 inches from the cabinet bases, not the doors. The extension helps keep spills and crumbs from finding their way into the drawers and cupboards below. It also completes the counter-cupboard-toe-kick contour that makes standing at the countertop more comfortable.
Based on Bases. Standard lower, or base, cabinets are 24 inches deep, while upper, or wall, cabinets are 12 inches deep. Countertops typically overhang their base cabinets by about 1 inch, or at least 3/4 inch beyond the drawer fronts and cabinet doors.
If your install cabinet height is eight feet then, add twelve inches to the thirty inch dimension. Uppers are installed 54” off of the floor to the bottom of the cabinet. Standard kitchen counter top depths. Finished counter top depth is 25 1/4” which leaves 1/2” overhang over the doors.
What is the standard depth of kitchen counter tops. Does the same overhang for the front of the counter top also apply for the side of the cabinet that is not butted up to a wall.I measured to the front of the drawers and it was 25 from the wall so I am going to go with 25 1/4 for my counter top depth.
Overhang. Countertops extend out from the face frame of the cabinets and just over the cabinet doors. This is called the overhang. Standard cabinet frames are 24 inches deep with 3/4 inch to 1 inch thick doors. Most countertops have a 1 inch overhang to make a standard depth of 25 inches. While there are many different materials to use for countertops, most come in a standard thickness of 1 1/2 inches.