The opposite of an exothermic process is an endothermic process, one that absorbs energy in the form of heat. The concept is frequently applied in the physical sciences to chemical reactions, where as in chemical bond energy that will be converted to thermal energy (heat). Exothermic (and endothermic) describe two types of chemical reactions or systems found in nature, as follows. Simply stated, after an exothermic reaction, more energy has been released to the surroundings than was absorbed to initiate and maintain the reaction.
If heat is given off, the reaction is exothermic. Exothermic means that during the reaction, molecules have moved from a higher state of energy to a lower state. An endothermic reaction is the opposite. This is when a reaction starts colder and ends up hotter, taking in energy from start to finish. That is an example of an exothermic reaction. Exothermic reactions give off heat. At the molecular level, an exothermic reaction is when a bond is formed. When two things come together, they're happier and take less energy to stay together.
An endothermic reaction occurs when the energy used to break the bonds in the reactants is greater than the energy given out when bonds are formed in the products. This means that overall the reaction takes in energy, therefore there is a temperature decrease in the surroundings. 
In thermodynamics, the term exothermic process (exo- : outside) describes a process or reaction that releases energy from the system, usually in the form of heat, but also in a form of light (e.g. a spark, flame, or flash), electricity (e.g. a battery), or sound (e.g. explosion heard when burning hydrogen). Exothermic (and endothermic) describe two types of chemical reactions or systems found in nature, as follows. Simply stated, after an exothermic reaction, more energy has been released to the surroundings than was absorbed to initiate and maintain the reaction.
An exothermic reaction is a chemical or physical reaction that releases heat. It gives net energy to its surroundings. That is, the energy needed to initiate the reaction is less than the energy that is subsequently released. When the medium in which the reaction is taking place gains heat, the reaction is exothermic. An exothermic reaction is a chemical reaction that releases energy by light or heat. It is the opposite of an endothermic reaction. Expressed in a chemical equation: reactants → products + energy
Exothermic and endothermic reactions. When a chemical reaction occurs, energy is transferred to, or from, the surroundings-and there is often a temperature change. For example, when a bonfire burns it transfers heat energy to the surroundings. Exothermic reactions. These are reactions that transfer energy to the surroundings. The energy is usually transferred as heat energy, causing the reaction mixture and its surroundings to become hotter.
Exothermic and endothermic reactions. In some reactions, the energy that must be absorbed to break the bonds in the reactants, is less than the energy that is released when the new bonds of the products are formed. This means that in the overall reaction, energy is released as either heat or light. This type of reaction is called an exothermic reaction. 
Exothermic [exothermic: Heat energy is released in an exothermic reaction. We know this because the surroundings get warm. ] reactions transfer energy to the surroundings. Endothermic [endothermic: In an endothermic reaction, energy is taken in from the surroundings. The surroundings then have less energy than they started with, so the temperature falls. ] reactions take in energy from the surroundings. Exothermic reactions. These are reactions that transfer energy to the surroundings. The energy is usually transferred as heat energy, causing the reaction mixture and its surroundings to become hotter.
An exothermic chemical reaction transfers energy to the surroundings. An endothermic chemical reaction absorbs energy from the surrounding, usually in the form of heat energy, so cooling the surroundings, but sometimes the system is heated to provide the heat energy and a high enough temperature to promote the reaction. 1 So an exothermic reaction is one which gives out energy to the surroundings, usually in the form of heat energy, hence the rise in temperature. 2  Examples of exothermic reactions 3  : T he burning or combustion of hydrocarbon fuels (see Oil Products) e.g. petrol or candle wax, these are very exothermic reactions.