General characteristics of Kingdom Protista are as follows: 1  They are simple eukaryotic organisms. 2  Most of the organisms are unicellular, some are colonial and some are multicellular like algae. 3  Most of the protists live in water, some in moist soil or even the body of human and plants. Kingdom Protista is a diverse group of eukaryotic organisms. Protists are unicellular, some are colonial or multicellular, they do not have specialized tissue organization. The simple cellular organization distinguishes the protists from other eukaryote
Lesson Summary. Kingdom Protista contains the protists, or all the organisms that do not fit into the other kingdoms of life. Protists can be heterotrophic or autotrophic, mobile or immobile, single-celled or multi-celled, solo or a member of a colony. They are categorized into three main categories based on how they obtain nutrients
Characteristics of Protists. Protists are eukaryotic organisms that cannot be classified as a plant, animal, or fungus. They are mostly unicellular, but some, like algae, are multicellular. Kelp, or 'seaweed,' is a large multicellular protist that provides food, shelter, and oxygen for numerous underwater ecosystems. Kingdom Protista contains the protists, or all the organisms that do not fit into the other kingdoms of life. Protists can be heterotrophic or autotrophic, mobile or immobile, single-celled or multi-celled, solo or a member of a colony.
Protists are organisms that are part of the biological kingdom called the protista. These organisms are not plants, animals, bacteria, or fungi. Protists are a very diverse group of organisms. They are basically all the organisms that don't fit into the other groups. 
1 Movement is often by flagella or cilia. 2  Protists are multicellular organisms, they are not a plant, animal or fungus. 3  Respiration-cellular respiration is primarily aerobic process, but some living in mud below ponds or in digestive tracts of animals ares strict facultative anaerobes. Kingdom Protista is a diverse group of eukaryotic organisms. Protists are unicellular, some are colonial or multicellular, they do not have specialized tissue organization. The simple cellular organization distinguishes the protists from other eukaryot
Answer by HazardousPrune1. Confidence votes 161. 1  They all have two general types of organisms... 2  protozoa and algae. 3  They can usually move themselves and capture prey. 4  The most plantlike Protists are called algae (usually unable to move themselves). Confidence votes 161. 1  They all have two general types of organisms... 2  They can usually move themselves and capture prey. 3  The most plantlike Protists are called algae (usually unable to move themselves). 4  They are very small. 5  They can cause harmful events and diseases (Malaria and African sleeping sickness).
Protista, group of comparatively simple organisms, called protists, that have characteristics of both. and. . Most protists are unicellular (consisting of a single. ) and can only be seen with a microscope, although there are some that are composed of more than one cell. 
1 Most of the organisms are unicellular, some are colonial and some are multicellular like algae. 2  Most of the protists live in water, some in moist soil or even the body of human and plants. 3  These organisms are eukaryotic, since they have a membrane bound nucleus and endomembrane systems. Kingdom Protista is a diverse group of eukaryotic organisms. Protists are unicellular, some are colonial or multicellular, they do not have specialized tissue organization. The simple cellular organization distinguishes the protists from other eukaryote
1 They all have two general types of organisms... 2  protozoa and algae. 3  They can usually move themselves and capture prey. 4  The most plantlike Protists are called algae (usually unable to move themselves). 5  They are very small. 6  They can cause harmful events and diseases (Malaria and African sleeping sickness). Confidence votes 161. 1  They all have two general types of organisms... 2  They can usually move themselves and capture prey. 3  The most plantlike Protists are called algae (usually unable to move themselves). 4  They are very small. 5