Ash trees are known to live for a very long time. But like all  living things, ash trees will come to an end.  . Charlie N. 120,676 Contributions. I have spent many years renovating buildings and leading a commercial handyman crew.
North American Green/Red Ash can live for 300+ years and White Ash 600+ years. Black Ash & Blue Ash are shorter lived types with 100-150 year possible lifespans.
The Green Ash Tree is a deciduous, fast growing tree that normally reaches a height of 50 to 80 feet with a spreading canopy width of one half the total height. This deciduous tree is cold hardy from zone 2-9, which is an unusual characteristic for fast growing trees, since the tree grows 4-6 feet each year.
The Green Ash tree can live to be 100 years old with a 3 foot trunk diameter. Very few pests or diseases bother the Green Ash tree, and the root system is shallow but extensive and will hold the tree up during windstorms, because of the vast fibrous root system that stretches out underneath the tree.
Lifespan of Ash in 20th Century. Those cultivating ash trees in the 20th century were cautious to get them positioned carefully on planting, knowing that the trees live hundreds of years. A white ash was expected to live 260 years, but could keep right on producing leaves in springtime for another 40 years. The average life span of the green ash was 120 years; its maximum longevity about 175 years.
A healthy ash tree can have a life span of 200-300 years. They are  fast growing in ideal environments, but are not considered mature  nor will they produce flowers or seeds … until they are 30-40 years  old.
A healthy ash tree can have a life span of 200-300 years. They are  fast growing in ideal environments, but are not considered mature  nor will they produce flowers or seeds … until they are 30-40 years  old.
The lovely insect, called the emerald ash borer, enters ash trees and eats away the nutrient-rich layer of wood just under the bark, felling the tree within one to five years. The insect is moving quickly across the ash tree range, and it has destroyed more than 25 million ash trees.