$14,920. The above post-closing trial balance shows that all revenue, expense, and dividends accounts have $0 balances and the $5,020 retained earnings balance is the same as the balance reported earlier on the company's statement of retained earnings.
The Trial Balance shows balances for each account BUT the point major point of the statement is to show that your books are in balance, meaning that your total debits equal your total credits.
The trial balance is an accounting listing that shows the beginning and ending balances for all accounts included in the set of books. This worksheet format makes it possible to evaluate whether or not the total debits for the period cited are in balance with the total number of credits generated for the same period.
Post-closing trial balance: once the closing entries are prepared and posted to the general ledger, another trial balance would be prepared to verify that the total dollar amount of debits in the general ledger equals the total dollar amount of credits.
TRIAL BALANCE. A trial balance is a list and total of all the debit and credit accounts for an entity for a given period – usually a month. The format of the trial balance is a two-column schedule with all the debit balances listed in one column and all the credit balances listed in the other. The trial balance is prepared after all the transactions for the period have been journalized and posted to the General Ledger.
A trial balance is a list of all the general ledger accounts (both revenue and capital) contained in the ledger of a business. This list will contain the name of the nominal ledger account and the value of that nominal ledger balances on a particular place.
Once all adjustments have been made, the adjusted trial balance is essentially a summary-balance listing of all the accounts in the general ledger-it does not show any detail transactions that comprise the ending balances in any accounts.
The following report shows an adjusted trial balance, where the initial, unadjusted balance for all accounts is located in the second column from the left, various adjusting entries are noted in the third column from the left, and the combined, net balance in each account is stated in the far right column.