Ethos (ἦθος, ἔθος, plurals: ethe (ἤθη), ethea (ἤθεα)) is a Greek word originally meaning accustomed place (as in ἤθεα ἵππων the habitats of horses, Iliad 6.511, 15.268), custom, habit, equivalent to Latin mores. Ethos forms the root of ethikos (ἠθικός), meaning moral, showing moral character. Used as a verb in the neuter plural form ta ethika (τὰ ἠθικά), used for the study of morals, it is the origin of the modern English word ethics.
Full Definition of ETHOS. : the distinguishing character, sentiment, moral nature, or guiding beliefs of a person, group, or institution; also: ethic 2c. See ethos defined for English-language learners. ADVERTISEMENT.
1 Ethos confirms the credibility of a writer or a speaker and thus they become trustworthy in the eyes of listeners and readers who as a result are persuaded by their arguments. 2  Ethos of a speaker or a writer is created largely by the choice of words he or she makes in order to convince listeners or readers. It is an argument “against the man,” i.e. undermining the ethos of a speaker or a writer in opposition. It is a strategy in which a speaker or a writer attacks the character or personality of an opponent speaker or writer instead of criticizing the matter of his or her point of view.
Lesson Summary. Let's review. Ethos is a term with Greek origins, and it refers to the morals, values and beliefs of a person, or even an entire culture. Ethos is also one of the three rhetorical appeals identified by Aristotle. Rhetoric is the language that's designed to persuade people, like politicians' speeches. 
Ethos (/ˈiːθɒs/ or US /ˈiːθoʊs/) is a Greek word meaning  character  that is used to describe the guiding beliefs or ideals that characterize a community, nation, or ideology. The Greeks also used this word to refer to the power of music to influence its hearer's emotions, behaviors, and even morals. Ethos forms the root of ethikos (ἠθικός), meaning moral, showing moral character. Used as a verb in the neuter plural form ta ethika (τὰ ἠθικά), used for the study of morals, it is the origin of the modern English word ethics.
1 Ethos of a speaker or a writer is created largely by the choice of words he or she makes in order to convince listeners or readers. 2  Being an expert on the subject matter that a speaker or a writer chooses determines his or her ethos. It is an argument “against the man,” i.e. undermining the ethos of a speaker or a writer in opposition. It is a strategy in which a speaker or a writer attacks the character or personality of an opponent speaker or writer instead of criticizing the matter of his or her point of view.
Ethos, Pathos, and Logos are modes of persuasion used to convince audiences. They are also referred to as the three artistic proofs (Aristotle coined the terms), and are all represented by Greek words. Ethos or the ethical appeal, means to convince an audience of the author’s credibility or character. An author would use ethos to show to his audience that he is a credible source and is worth listening to. Ethos is the Greek word for “character.” The word “ethic” is derived from etho
Ethos is the distinctive spirit of a culture, or an era; simply  understood it is the displayed character or attributes of that  culture (could also be applied to a person … , company, or even a  social movement). Ethos: Establishes credibility in the speaker. Since by definition it means the common attitudes, beliefs, and characteristics of a group or time period, this appeal sets up believability in the writer. He or she is perceived as someone who can be trusted and is concerned with the reader's best interests