The proviso itself said that any acquired land from Mexico must be free from slavery or involuntary servitude. The proviso was never passed but the bill did. The proviso passed in the House, where majority was Northerners; people living in the northern states and didn't have many slaves. The Senate, with majority of slave owning southerners, refused to ratify and said Congress didn't have the power to ban slavery. Read more: http://wiki.answers.com/Q/What_was_the_W... 
The proviso would have prohibited slavery in the new territories acquired from Mexico, including California. The proviso injected the controversial slavery issue into the funding debate, but the House approved the bill and sent it to the Senate for action. The Senate, however, adjourned before discussing the issue. 
The Wilmot Proviso proposed an American law to ban slavery in any territory acquired from Mexico in the Mexican War. The conflict over the proviso was one of the major events leading to the American Civil War. The Senate took up the bill late in its Monday session. Southern Democrats hoped to reject the Wilmot Proviso and send the bill back to the House for a quick approval of the bill without the restrictions on slavery.
Travel and History Blog. Share. David Wilmot, whose name is associated with the Wilmot Proviso, was born Bethany, Pennsylvania, in 1814 and took up the practice of law in Towanda. He served as as a Democratic member of Congress from 1845 to 1851. In 1846, during the Mexican War, the House of Representatives considered an appropriations bill designed to provide $2,000,000 for negotiating with the Mexican government. Wilmot introduced a rider to that measure, which was derived from the Northwest Ordinance, barring slavery from any territory acquired from Mexico. The bill containing the Wilmot Proviso passed the House in 1846 but the Senate failed to take any action on it. Passed again by the House in 1847, the proviso was defeated largely by the opposition of Senator John C. Calhoun of South Carolina
Congressman David Wilmot first introduced the proviso in the United States House of Representatives on August 8, 1846, as a rider on a $2,000,000 appropriations bill intended for the final negotiations to resolve the Mexican–American War (this was only three months into the two-year war). The Senate took up the bill late in its Monday session. Southern Democrats hoped to reject the Wilmot Proviso and send the bill back to the House for a quick approval of the bill without the restrictions on slavery.
The Wilmot Proviso would have prevented slavery's expansion into any of this new territory. The House of Representatives approved the appropriations bill and, as a result, the proviso on August 8, 1846, but the Senate adjourned beforWilmot Proviso would have prevented slavery's expansion into any of this new territory. In 1846, during the Mexican War, the House of Representatives considered an appropriations bill designed to provide $2,000,000 for negotiating with the Mexican government. Wilmot introduced a rider to that measure, which was derived from the Northwest Ordinance, barring slavery from any territory acquired from Mexico. The bill containing the Wilmot Proviso passed the House in 1846 but the Senate failed to take any action on it. Passed again by the House in 1847, the proviso was defeated largely by the opposition of Senator John C. Calhoun of South Carolina
1 The Wilmot Proviso banning slavery in any new territory to be acquired from Mexico, not including Texas, which had been annexed the previous year. 2  Passed by the House in August 1846 and February 1847 but not the Senate. 3  Later an effort failed to attach the proviso to the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo. 
Wilmot Proviso, 1846, amendment to a bill put before the U.S. House of Representatives during the Mexican War; it provided an appropriation of $2 million to enable President Polk to negotiate a territorial settlement with Mexico. The amended bill passed the House, but the Senate drew up its own bill, which excluded the proviso. The Wilmot Proviso created great bitterness between North and South and helped crystallize the conflict over the extension of slavery.
The Proviso also prohibited the expansion of slavery into any territory acquired by the United States from Mexico as a result of a settlement in the Mexican-American War. The proposed amendment narrowly passed through the House of Representatives and was then defeated in the Senate. Lesson Summary. The Wilmot Proviso was issued on August 8th, 1846 by Pennsylvania Democratic Congressman David Wilmot. It prohibited the expansion of slavery into any territory acquired by the United States from Mexico as a result of the Mexican-American War settlement.