Laila Got Engaged To Meera Brother Ahsan. admin April 9, 2015 Laila Got Engaged To Meera Brother Ahsan 2015-04-10T03:50:40+00:00 Latest Happning No Comment. After the late buildup on media about Laila discovering her life accomplice through a network show, Laila has at long last discovered her “To-Be” Ahson. Kaun Bane Ga Laila Ka Dulha was a quite discussed fragment where youthful men contended to be Laila’s husband to be on APlus Morning Show, facilitated by Noor
Kaun Bane Ga Laila Ka Dulha was a much talked about segment where young men competed to be Laila’s groom on APlus Morning Show, hosted by Noor. Ahson, surprisingly happens to be the brother of film actress Meera and it has been revealed by sources that Laila and Ahson have been in a relationship for some time.
As we all be acquainted with that Laila was in look for of her life colleague. The beat show Kaun Banega “ Laila Ka Dulha ” was aired on A plus. In this part, men from special places take part and compete every other to become Laila’s Dulha.
Pinterest0. As we all know that Laila was in search of her life partner. The hit show Kaun Banega Laila Ka Dulha was aired on Aplus. In this segment, men from different places took part and competed each other to become Laila’s groom. The show was hosted by Noor and Saim.After waiting for a long period, Ahsan was finally announced the groom of Laila. According to sources, Laila and Ahsan were in a relationship for a long time.
Mohsin Abbas got married. As we all know that Laila was in search of her life partner. The hit show Kaun Banega Laila Ka Dulha was aired on Aplus. In this segment, men from different places took part and competed each other to become Laila’s groom. The show was hosted by Noor and Saim.After waiting for a long period, Ahsan was finally announced the groom of Laila. According to sources, Laila and Ahsan were in a relationship for a long time.
Posted on April 7, 2015 by Rozee | Leave a comment. Laila with Ahsan on her engagement day on the sets of Good morning Zindagi. Ahsan is Meera’s real life brother.As we all know that Laila was in search of her life partner. The hit show Kaun Banega Laila Ka Dulha was aired on Aplus. In this segment, men from different places took part and competed each other to become Laila’s groom. According to sources, Laila and Ahsan were in a relationship for a long time. On engagement ceremony, Laila said, “this is my first engagement ever in her life. I am missing my mother at this moment. I consider Meera’s mother as my own mother. All I hope is that this relationship remains forever”.
By dramaindustry on April 5, 2015 Good Morning Zindagi, Latest Happenings, TV Shows. Pakistani Actress Laila Got Engaged to Actress Meera Brother Ahsan Abbas in a Morning Show “Good Morning Zindagi” on Aplus Tv Channel on 3rd April 2015. Syed Ahsan Abbas, surprisingly happens to be the brother of film actress Meera and it has been revealed by sources that Laila and Ahson have been in a relationship for some time.
Laila Got Engaged To Meera’s Brother AhsanBut one question that arises is if Ahsan was to become the life partner of Laila and both of them were in a relationship for quite sometime, then why the competition was started on the Aplus? Was the competition started to make us fool or to waste our time? In this segment, men from different places took part and competed each other to become Laila’s groom. The show was hosted by Noor and Saim.After waiting for a long period, Ahsan was finally announced the groom of Laila. According to sources, Laila and Ahsan were in a relationship for a long time.