It was during this time that he acquired the circled eye, and when he was recruited to appear in the Our Gang comedies later that year, Hal Roach simply left it on, creating one of the most recognized dogs in film history. In the 1994 remake of The Little Rascals, the new Pete is an American Pitbull Terrier. Trainer and owner Lt. Harry Lucenay used one of Pal's offspring as Pete in the series after Pal was poisoned and died in 1930. The dog, named Lucenay's Peter, was bred by A. A. Keller. Roach used a number of unrelated dogs to portray Pete in Our Gang until 1938. Lucenay's Peter continued on and died of old age on January 28, 1946 in Los Angeles, California at age 17, two years after the Our Gang series ended.
The name Staffordshire Terrier comes from the miners of Staffordshire, England, who had a hand in the development of the original English fighting breed. Originally, 50 Staffordshire Terriers were accepted into the AKC. One of the original dogs was none other than the famous Petey, from the Little Rascals. Source(s): http://www.pitbullsoforegon.com/breed_hi...
But its most famous internee is Petey, the dog with the magic marker circle around one eye from the Our Gang (a.k.a. Little Rascals) movie short comedies. Of course, that was just the dog's stage name; his real name was Jiggs or General Grant -- or something. Three thousand miles away, much closer to Tinseltown, is the grave of a Petey at the famous Pet Memorial Cemetery in Calabasas, CA. Pet Memorial is also home to other pet celebrities and celebrity pets like Steven Spielberg's Jack Russell, Rudolph Valentino's dog, Kabar, and Hopalong Cassidy's horse, Topper.
Otherwise known as Pete, the Dog With the Ring Around His Eye, or simply Petey, he was well known for having a circled eye that was added on by Hollywood make-up artist Max Factor and credited as an oddity in Ripley's Believe It or Not. Roach used a number of unrelated dogs to portray Pete in Our Gang until 1938. Lucenay's Peter continued on and died of old age on January 28, 1946 in Los Angeles, California at age 17, two years after the Our Gang series ended.
Petie, the Little Rascals' Pete the Pup in a rare vintage video with his master/trainer Harry Lucenay showing how Pete was trained for both silent and sound films (ca 1932). The unidentified kids in the second part are not the Rascals.. 1  Film & Animation. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
The Little Rascals are back in an all-new movie! Join the fun with Spanky, Alfalfa, Darla, Buckwheat, Petey the dog and the whole gang as they are up to their usual mischief! The Rascals try anything to raise the money needed to save their grandma's (Doris Roberts) bakery. The only trouble is-they can't seem to do anything right! 
Best Answer: They used several dogs over the years his spot was a die job.I got this info off the Our Gang DVD.they did not say what kind dog he was. The Little Rascals used to be Our Gang when it played in the theatre.They changed there name for TV. The first episode was in in 1923 and went into the forties. Source(s): Originally, 50 Staffordshire Terriers were accepted into the AKC. One of the original dogs was none other than the famous Petey, from the Little Rascals. Source(s): http://www.pitbullsoforegon.com/breed_hi...
In the 1994 movie Peety was Scott American Buldog (somwhat simular in looks to a Pit Bull). Theres also Johnson American Buldogs (kinda look like giant english bulldogs) and Hybrid American Buldogs a cross between the two. In the early Little rascals they used several different dogs most of them Pit Bulls. 
Petey was a pitbull. Sadly, he was poisoned. The myth/legend was that there was someone who was jealous of Petey-and what a smart dog he was-not to mention the money he earned doing the Little Rascals. Other famous pitbulls were/are Popsicle-left to die in a freezer by thugs-he is the country's most successful drug dog