Most of the Greek companies that dealt in metals fabrication, mining of minerals, and refined metals production or processing were well established and had a strong export orientation.Greek merchandise exports in 2009 totaled $20.1 billion, of which fuels and mining products accounted for $16.9 million. —In 2009, Greece was a leading bauxite producer in the eU, and S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. controlled most of the significant bauxite reserves in Greece. The major bauxite deposits are located in central Greece within the Parnassos-Ghiona geotectonic zone and on evoia Island.
Mining in Ancient Greece. The Greeks used bronze, a mix of tin and copper, for their weapons and tools. Later, iron was used because it produced harder tools and weapons. Athens found a large amount of silver in the mines at Laurium. At its peak, Athens had over 20,000 slaves mining at Laurium. At the request of Themistocles, they used the money from these mines to pay for a large navy. This investment in the navy paid off in their development of a large trade network around the Mediterranean. There were very good mining areas around Greece
Production Greece was a global supplier of several key industrial minerals and a significant producer of bauxite, caustic-calcined magnesium, mined nickel, and screened perlite in the eU. Production of mineral commodities in Greece was closely tied to the export market. —In 2009, Greece was a leading bauxite producer in the eU, and S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. controlled most of the significant bauxite reserves in Greece. The major bauxite deposits are located in central Greece within the Parnassos-Ghiona geotectonic zone and on evoia Island.
Therapeutic holidays in Greece. The therapeutic properties of some mineral springs were known since the ancient times. It is said that Hippocrates, the father of medicine, used bathing with mineral water to heal some kinds of pain and diseases. Experts consider that the first mineral water baths date back to 2,000 B.C.
About 2500 years ago, the Greeks created a way of life that other people admired and copied. Jewelry was popular in ancient Greece and the Greeks started using gold and gems in jewelry in 1600 BC, although beads shaped as shells and animals were produced widely in earlier times. Ancient Greek necklace with beads of agate, sard and amethyst in assorted shapes. From Chamber Tombs 518 and 519 at Mycenae. 
Minerals in the National Economy Mining has been significant to the Greek economy since ancient times. The mineral industry produced or processed metals, industrial minerals, and mineral fuels.During the past 20 years, the significance of the mineral industry to the Greek economy had slowly lessened. —In 2009, Greece was a leading bauxite producer in the eU, and S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. controlled most of the significant bauxite reserves in Greece. The major bauxite deposits are located in central Greece within the Parnassos-Ghiona geotectonic zone and on evoia Island.
Ancient Greek medicine was a compilation of theories that were constantly expanding through new ideologies and trials. Many components were considered in Ancient Greek Medicine, intertwining the spiritual with the physical. Specifically, the theories and ideologies from which Ancient Greek Medicine derived included the humors, gender, geographic location, social class, diet, trauma, beliefs, and mind set.
Ancient Greece ranged from democracies (Athens, Thebes) to oligarchies (Sparta) and monarchies (The … ssaly, Epirus, Macedonia). Furthermore, ancient Greeks colonized lands that are now outside of Greek borders, such as southern Italy, France, Turkey, Cyprus and some parts of the Russian shores. Ancient Greece had much less technology, and their democracy (direct democracy) is very different from the current Greek democracy. Also, Ancient Greece believed in Greek gods … and that they caused natural disasters, while today Greece has scientific explanations for natural events.