Looks like I am the one getting shafted,haha,I have been installing floors for over 10 years,and average price for installing straight-lay tile is $2.00 a ft..work is slow right now,willing to travel to bring the southern flooring reputation to your home...southernflooring1@csouth1.blackberry.com. 1 Installation charges start around $5-10 a square foot ($500-$1,000 for 10x10-feet) and rise sharply for custom work. 2  Odd room layouts cost more. 3  There's usually a fee for moving furniture or tearing out the old floor.
What you will need in the bathroom will differ substantially from what you need in the bedroom. Tile is a smart choice in rooms with water and humidity such as the laundry room, kitchen and bathroom. Average costs of porcelain and ceramic are $5 to $12 per square foot, including the price of installation. Some materials, like hardwood, may be able to last for decades, but things like tile, vinyl or laminate might need repair or replacement more frequently. To better understand the average costs of various flooring jobs around the home, use this guide to price things like carpet repair, flooring replacement and more.
Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Install a Wood Floor! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Hardwood Flooring Installation project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Wood Floor ranges between $8.21 - $11.04 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1
Thanks to lower material costs overall, the average price for delivery, materials and installation of 500 square feet of bamboo flooring is typically $3,651. Carpeting adds a warm and welcoming air to any space, and for that reason, it is incredibly popular in many homes. Installation is also tricky because many companies include installation in the cost of the carpet. On average, expect to pay $2,969 for 500 square feet of medium-quality carpet and installation labor.
Material Costs. As of 2013, carpet costs range depending on the quality you desire, with a low-end carpet ranging from $2 to $3 on average per square foot. Carpet is actually sold by the yard, but most shops advertise in square feet to avoid customer confusion. Labor costs are one of the most flexible aspects of carpet installation and vary depending on which installer you talk to. As of this writing, expect to pay between $9 to $12 per square yard of carpet installation for a competitive, average installer. Luxury carpets can cost three times that.
On average, flooring installation costs $3,012 nationally, with most homeowners spending between $1,445 and $4,580. This data is based on actual project costs as reported by HomeAdvisor members. See Wood Flooring Costs. Consider flooring a long-term investment, something that you'll touch more than any aspect of your house, and it might just last for the life of your home. Types of flooring, of course, run the gamut. The type of flooring your install should reflect your tastes and your lifestyle.
However, concrete and other hard sub floors limit the choice to engineered wood flooring. Pricing for hardwood floors average $8 to $14 per square foot for material and installation. Laminates imitate the look of natural materials such as wood and stone for a fraction of the real material‘s price. 
Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Install a Tile Floor! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Tile Floor Installation project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Tile Floor ranges between $10.02 - $14.22 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased.
Average Price Range. Cheap laminate flooring starts at less than $1 per square foot and can cost as much as $5 per square foot. The average laminate flooring costs from $2.40-$4 per square foot. The price is determined, as it is with most products, by the quality of the material. A major part of that quality is the thickness of the wear layer. A: There will be some variation in prices regionally and the final amount will depend on the size and complexity of the project, that said the average cost to install laminate flooring is $1.40 to $2.20 per square foot.