Damp proofing in construction is a type of moisture control applied to building walls and floors to prevent moisture from passing into the interior spaces. Damp problems are one of the most frequent problems encountered in homes. 1 Rising damp is the effect of water rising from the ground into your property. 2  The damp proof course may be horizontal or vertical. 3  A DPC layer is usually laid below all masonry walls, regardless if the wall is a load bearing wall or a partition wall.
Damp problems are one of the most frequent problems encountered in homes. Damp proofing is accomplished in several ways including: A damp-proof course (DPC) is a barrier in a masonry wall designed to resist moisture rising through the structure by capillary action such as through a phenomenon known as rising damp. The damp proof course may be horizontal or vertical. A DPC layer is usually laid below all masonry walls, regardless if the wall is a load bearing wall or a partition wall. A damp-proof membrane (DPM) is a membrane material applied to prevent moisture transmission.
What Is Damp Proofing. Damp and damp proofing is by far, the most frequent problem encountered in the home. Each year, the average home in Scotland copes with around 15,000 gallons of rain water, so it is no surprise that damp proofing can become a big problem for many. Although most damp problems are much less serious than they actually look, whatever the cause, damp can be very bad for our health.
It is very important for a property to have effective damp proofing, as it acts as a long term preventative barrier to decay caused by excess moisture that could weaken and damage the structure of a building. Damp Proof Membrane (DPM). There is sometimes confusion between what is a damp proof membrane (DPM) and what is a damp proof course (DPC). Particularly as a damp proof membrane can be used as part of a damp proof course.
Damp proofing is a general term that covers methods and treatments used to prevent damp from being absorbed through walls or floors into the interior of a property. Damp Proof Membrane (DPM). There is sometimes confusion between what is a damp proof membrane (DPM) and what is a damp proof course (DPC). Particularly as a damp proof membrane can be used as part of a damp proof course.
Damp proofing is a protective process to ensure moisture cannot pass through the walls of a building to the interior. Damp proofing places a barrier in walls which prevents rising damp, with other methods available to prevent penetrating damp problems prevalent in modern homes. 
If the physical barrier of damp proofing (to walls or floors) in a property is damaged, absent or bridged in any way it can potentially lead to problems such as rising damp, dry rot or wet rot within the building. Damp Proof Membrane (DPM). There is sometimes confusion between what is a damp proof membrane (DPM) and what is a damp proof course (DPC). Particularly as a damp proof membrane can be used as part of a damp proof course.
Not a rising damp issue. Damp and damp proofing is by far, the most frequent problem encountered in the home. Each year, the average home in Scotland copes with around 15,000 gallons of rain water, so it is no surprise that damp proofing can become a big problem for many. Although most damp problems are much less serious than they actually look, whatever the cause, damp can be very bad for our health.
Damp proofing is defined by the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) as a material that resists the passage of water with no hydro-static pressure and waterproof as a treatment that resists the passage of water under pressure. 1 Rising damp is the effect of water rising from the ground into your property. 2  The damp proof course may be horizontal or vertical. 3  A DPC layer is usually laid below all masonry walls, regardless if the wall is a load bearing wall or a partition wall.
Damp proofing is accomplished several ways including: 1  A damp-proof course (DPC) is a barrier through the structure by capillary action such as through a phenomenon known as rising damp. 2  Rising damp is the effect of water rising from the ground into your property. 3  The damp proof course may be horizontal or vertical. 1 Rising damp is the effect of water rising from the ground into your property. 2  The damp proof course may be horizontal or vertical. 3  A DPC layer is usually laid below all masonry walls, regardless if the wall is a load bearing wall or a partition wall.