Ionic and Molecular Compounds     An ionic compound is a pure substance that is formed from a metal and a nonmetal. It has a fairly high melting point and is a con … ductor of electricity when in a molten or aqueous state.   A molecular compound, on the other hand, is a pure substance that is formed from nonmetals. The simplest description is that it is ionic, and the argument is that the difference in electronegativity causes a full transfer of electrons. It is high melting solid and … certainly i not molecular.
An ionic bond is one in which electrons are gained/lost, ions are formed, and they attract, forming an ionic compound (e.g., HCl, H2SO4,Li2O) A covalent bond is one in which e … lectrons are shared, and depending on the size of the atoms involved, could be polar (H2O) or nonpolar (N2). HCl (Hydrogen Chloride) is a covalent compound and forms a covalent bond. However, if water is added to hydrogen chloride, it forms hydrochloric acid which is an ionic compoun … d that has ionic bonds. 2 people found this useful.
So water is composed of two hydrogen and an oxygen atom. Hydrogen is an alkali metal and oxygen is a non-metal. Does this mean they&#39;re still a metal and non-metal and therefore compose an ionic compound?..Or does hydrogen have similar properties to a non-metal and creates a molecular compound...
2 7 Ionic and Molecular Compounds • An ionic compound consists of oppositely charged cations and anions. Usually the cation is a metal and the anion is a nonmetal or a group of nonmetals. (ie, NaCl) • A molecular compound consists of two or more different nonmetals. It exists as a discrete unit of atoms. (ie, CO 2) 8 • NaCl is an ionic compound • CO 2 is a molecular compound • O 2 is a molecular element Figure 3.07 9 Identifying Ionic and Molecular Compounds Identify each compound as ionic or molecular. When compounds containing ions dissolve in water, the ions exist separate from each other. The mobility of ions allows for a current to pass through water. Figure 3.03 5 Electrolytes • Solutions containing ions are electrolytes. • Sodium chloride dissolved in water is an electrolyte.
pisgahchemist. HCl(aq) exists as hydrated H+ and Cl-ions. KBr is a network solid with bonds with relatively high ionic character (68% ionic character). The remainder of the compounds have greater covalent character including CuO and CuS. CuO bonds have 45% ionic character, CuS bonds are even less. Don't be suckered into the notion that metal-nonmetal bonds are ionic. 
Report Abuse. Hydrogen is a nonmetal (even though its on the left side). Water is a molecular compound b/c it has H and O. Water is not ionic! (b/c both H and O are nonmetals) It bonds using covalent bonding. and two or more waters bond using hydrogen bonding! Hydrogen is an alkali metal and oxygen is a non-metal. Does this mean they&#39;re still a metal and non-metal and therefore compose an ionic compound?..Or does hydrogen have similar properties to a non-metal and creates a molecular compound...
A covalent bond is a chemical bond between two nonmetals (two metals cannot covalently bond) in which electrons are shared, while an ionic bond is a chemical bond between a me … tal and a non metal due to the attraction between oppositely charged ions. 13 people found this useful. HCl (Hydrogen Chloride) is a covalent compound and forms a covalent bond. However, if water is added to hydrogen chloride, it forms hydrochloric acid which is an ionic compoun … d that has ionic bonds. 2 people found this useful.
It has a fairly low melting point, and cannot conduct electricity regardless of state.   Another important difference between the two is that an ionic compound is a crystalline solid at standard ambient temperature and pressure (SATP), whereas a molecular compound can be in a solid, gas or liquid state at SATP. The simplest description is that it is ionic, and the argument is that the difference in electronegativity causes a full transfer of electrons. It is high melting solid and … certainly i not molecular.