There are four categories of leukemia based on how quickly the disease progresses (acute or chronic), and the kind of white blood cell that is affected (myeloid cells or lymphoid cells): 1  Acute, meaning the disease worsens rapidly and requires quick, potent treatment. Sometimes patients may not even have symptoms and discover they have leukemia when a routine blood test shows a very high count of white blood cells, Vaiselbuh said. Acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) is the most common type in young children, and acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) occurs in both adults and children.
There are different types of leukemia. According to the American Cancer Society, acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) is the type of leukemia that most commonly affects children, most often between the ages of 2 and 4 years. Chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML). Chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) is uncommon in children. Chronic myelogenous leukemia is cancer of the blood in which too many granulocytes, a type of white blood cell, are produced in the marrow. The granulocytes normally fight infection.
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is a fast-growing cancer of a type of white blood cells called lymphocytes that crowds out bone marrow, preventing it from making the normal red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets that your body needs. 1  Tweet. 
Types of leukemia. The major types of leukemia are: 1  Acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL). 2  This is the most common type of leukemia in young children. 3  ALL can also occur in adults. 4  Acute myelogenous leukemia (AML). 5  AML is a common type of leukemia. 6  It occurs in children and adults. 7  AML is the most common type of acute leukemia in adults. The major types of leukemia are: 1  Acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL). 2  Acute myelogenous leukemia (AML). 3  Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). 4  Chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML). 5  Other types. 6  Symptoms. 7  Risk factors.
These are the most common types of leukemia: Acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) is the most common type of leukemia in young children. This disease also affects adults, especially those age 65 and older. Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) occurs in both adults and children. This type of leukemia is sometimes called acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (ANLL).
Different types of leukemia affect different types of patients. For example, both chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) affect mostly adults, according to the National Cancer Institute. Sometimes patients may not even have symptoms and discover they have leukemia when a routine blood test shows a very high count of white blood cells, Vaiselbuh said. Acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) is the most common type in young children, and acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) occurs in both adults and children.
Leukemia is a cancer of the early blood-forming cells. Most often, leukemia is a cancer of the white blood cells, but some leukemias start in other blood cell types. Leukemia is often described as being either acute (fast growing) or chronic (slow growing). Different types of leukemia have different treatment options and outlooks. 
There are four main types of leukemia — acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), acute myeloid leukemia (AML), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) — as well as a number of less common types. 