A salary is generally expressed as an amount paid per week, per month or per year. To qualify for exemption under the Regulations, Part 541, an employee must earn the minimum required salary of $455 per week exclusive of board, lodging or other facilities.. [ Back to Top ]. What if the payday is not weekly? The employee must receive the full salary of at least $455 per week if paid on a weekly basis. If the employee is paid every two weeks (bi-weekly), the minimum salary required is $910.00. If the employee is paid twice a month (semi-monthly), the minimum salary required is $985.83. If the employee is paid monthly, the minimum salary required is $1,971.66
Save. Your weekly pay is either figured in terms of a salary that you earn each week regardless of the number of hours you work, or based on your hourly wage and the number of hours you work. Add the number of hours you worked each day of the weekly to calculate your total hours for the week. Multiply this number by your hourly wage to calculate your gross weekly pay if your earnings are based on a wage rather than a salary.
If you are paid on an hourly or daily basis, the annual salary calculation does not apply to you. Your bi-weekly pay is calculated by multiplying your daily or hourly rate times the number of days or hours you are paid. 1  The City's payroll system is based on the fiscal year covering the period July 1 through June 30. 2  Fiscal Year 2014 beginning July 1, 2013 is not a leap year. 
A Wage is, as mentioned, an amount paid per hour. A salary is a fixed amount of pay per week or month (usually paid semi-monthly). A yearly pay is known as an annual amount or annual pay. Minimum wage as of July 15, 2009, is $7.25 per hour. Salary is paid notwithstanding the amount of hours to usually Management employees. A wage is better because you get paid for how many hours you work, while, with a salary, you get a set amount of payment. An example of a job that gets a salary is a teacher. It doesn't matter how much homework they grade over weekends and vacations, they get the same amount of money.
Considerations. The U.S. Department of Labor requires that certain employers pay workers a minimum wage of $7.25 an hour and to pay time-and-a-half for hours worked in excess of 40 during a week. Minimum wage and overtime laws can result in higher average weekly wages for some workers. Generally, average weekly wages are roughly equal to the total amount of compensation an employee earned in the 52-week period prior to an injury or illness that resulted in workers' compensation benefits, divided by 52.
Salary. The average weekly salary of a lawyer as of May 2011 was $2,509, the equivalent of $130,490 annually, according to the U.S. Department of Labor’s Bureau of Labor Statistics. 
1 Table 1. Median usual weekly earnings of full-time wage and salary workers by sex, quarterly averages, seasonally adjusted. 2  Table 2. 3  Median usual weekly earnings of full-time wage and salary workers by selected characteristics, quarterly averages, not seasonally adjusted. 
Step 1. Convert to a basic hourly rate. Based on 40 hours per work week and 52 weeks a year, a full-time employee will work 2,080 hours per year. Divide the annual salary by 2,080 for the hourly rate for that position. For example: An annual salary of $35,000.00 divided by 2,080 = $16.83 per hour. While $35,000 may seem like a lot money, breaking it down to an hourly equivalent makes it easier to compare to similar jobs with an hourly rate. How to Calculate Annual Salary to a Weekly Wage. A few calculations will reveal the hourly rate for a salaried position. Jupiterimages/Pixland/Getty Images. Most people want an interesting job with great pay and benefits.