Greenhouse gases absorb reflected sun energy, making the Earth's atmosphere warmer. A lot of the sun’s energy reaches the ground directly, and a portion is reflected by the ground back into space. Some gases, when present in the atmosphere, absorb that reflected energy and redirect it back to Earth as heat. 
The greenhouse effect is caused by the interaction of the sun's energy with greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide and fluorinated gases in the Earth's atmosphere. The ability of these gases to trap heat is what causes the greenhouse effect. Greenhouse gases are made of three or more atoms. This molecular structure makes it possible for these gases to trap heat in the atmosphere and then re-emit it towards the surface which further warms the Earth. The greenhouse effect increases the temperature of the Earth by trapping heat in our atmosphere. This keeps the temperature of the Earth higher than it would be if direct heating by the Sun was the only source of warming.
A greenhouse gas (sometimes abbreviated GHG) is a gas in an atmosphere that absorbs and emits radiation within the thermal infrared range. This process is the fundamental cause of the greenhouse effect. The primary greenhouse gases in Earth's atmosphere are water vapor, carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, and ozone. Without greenhouse gases, the average temperature of Earth's surface would be about 15 °C (27 °F) colder than the present average of 14 °C (57 °F).
The major greenhouse gases (GHG’s) solely responsible for greenhouse effect are Carbon dioxide, Ozone, Methane and Water vapor. Although these gases comprise 1% of our atmosphere, they act like a thick warm blanket outside that surrounds this planet and regulate climate control. Greenhouse effect is not bad. Increased greenhouse gases directly increase the heat on the planet’s surface and lower atmosphere. This has a rippling effect as it can thin and even create holes in the ozone layer. This means that other radiation like ultra violet (UV) rays can seep in from the Sun.
Causes Of The Greenhouse Effect. Trace gases in the atmosphere cause the greenhouse effect by acting like a blanket on a global scale and slowing the radiation of heat back out into space. Impacts of Different Greenhouse Gases. Carbon dioxide is the largest contributor to global warming, and occurs in relatively high concentrations. On the other hand, methane occurs in low concentrations, but it has a much higher heat-trapping capacity than carbon dioxide per unit volume.
Search for: Trace gases in the atmosphere cause the greenhouse effect by acting like a blanket on a global scale and slowing the radiation of heat back out into space. Impacts of Different Greenhouse Gases. Carbon dioxide is the largest contributor to global warming, and occurs in relatively high concentrations. On the other hand, methane occurs in low concentrations, but it has a much higher heat-trapping capacity than carbon dioxide per unit volume.
The increase in heat-trapping gases in the Earth’s atmosphere caused by human activity means the greenhouse effect could, like a poorly managed greenhouse that is left closed up on a hot summer day, overheat and do great damage to all the living creatures on the Earth. Impacts of Different Greenhouse Gases. Carbon dioxide is the largest contributor to global warming, and occurs in relatively high concentrations. On the other hand, methane occurs in low concentrations, but it has a much higher heat-trapping capacity than carbon dioxide per unit volume.
The gases in the atmosphere that absorb radiation are known as greenhouse gases (sometimes abbreviated as GHG) because they are largely responsible for the greenhouse effect. The greenhouse effect, in turn, is one of the leading causes of global warming. The most significant greenhouse gases are water vapor (H 2 O), carbon dioxide (CO 2), methane (CH 4) and nitrous oxide (N 2 O), according to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
The Earth has a natural greenhouse effect where certain gases (known as greenhouse gases) in the atmosphere allow the sunlight to enter but absorb the heat radiation. Because these gases absorb the heat, they keep the average surface temperature on Earth around 14°C. Since the industrial revolution, human activity has increased the amount of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere (shown in the graph to the right). The increased amount of gases which absorb heat, has directly lead to more heat being retained in the atmosphere and thus an increase in global average surface temperatures.
Behind the struggle to address global warming and climate change lies the increase in greenhouse gases in our atmosphere. A greenhouse gas is any gaseous compound in the atmosphere that is capable of absorbing infrared radiation, thereby trapping and holding heat in the atmosphere. By increasing the heat in the atmosphere, greenhouse gases are responsible for the greenhouse effect, which ultimately leads to global warming. The greenhouse effect, in turn, is one of the leading causes of global warming. The most significant greenhouse gases are water vapor (H 2 O), carbon dioxide (CO 2), methane (CH 4) and nitrous oxide (N 2 O), according to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).