The cockle-burr or cocklebur plant (Xanthium strumarium) earns its name from the shape and texture of its seedpods. Each tiny pod resembles a cockleshell of spiny burs. The plant's genus name, Xanthium, is derived from the Greek word for rough, and its species name, strumarium, translates to cushionlike swelling.. The spiny, oval burs reach a length of 1 inch and resemble burdock burs. Each holds two black or brown seeds. Because it grows to a height of 5 feet, it may shade out smaller plants. When the plant produces burs, those burs can become a nuisance to livestock, household pets and humans because they cling to fur and clothing.
1. cocklebur-any coarse weed of the genus Xanthium having spiny burrs. cockle-bur, cockleburr, cockle-burr. genus Xanthium, Xanthium-coarse herbs having small heads of greenish flowers followed by burrs with hooked bristles. weed-any plant that crowds out cultivated plants. 
Treat your lawn with a granular or spray pre-emergent herbicide that targets grass burs and is labeled as safe to use on the grass in your lawn. Follow the manufacturer's instructions for application rates. Make your first application in February. There are methods for killing the grass bur plant, but that is no solace to your bare feet if the burs are already in the grass. To get rid of grass burs on your lawn, spread an old blanket over the grass. Then step on it or drag it over the lawn. The grass burs will become embedded in the blanket's fibers.
Xanthium (cocklebur) is a genus of flowering plants in the sunflower tribe within the daisy family, native to the Americas and eastern Asia. Description [edit]. Cockleburs are coarse, herbaceous annual plants growing to 20–47 inches (51–119 cm) tall. The leaves are spirally arranged, with deeply toothed margins. Some species, notably Xanthium spinosum, are also very thorny with long, slender spines at the leaf bases.
Spray the grass bur plants with a post-emergent herbicide labeled for use on grass burs and safe to use on the type of grass in your lawn. Follow the manufacturer's instructions when spraying (most require you to coat the grass bur plant's foliage just until the point of runoff). There are methods for killing the grass bur plant, but that is no solace to your bare feet if the burs are already in the grass. To get rid of grass burs on your lawn, spread an old blanket over the grass. Then step on it or drag it over the lawn. The grass burs will become embedded in the blanket's fibers.
Spiny cocklebur has male and female flowers on the same plant.clinging to animal fur or human clothing.Fig. 1. Spiny cocklebur spreads by seeds Habitat Spiny cocklebur is found in open and disturbed waste places. It can be found growing along roads, barnyards, pastures, vacant lots, and other disturbed sites. It also can be common around moist disturbed sites such as along ditches, canals, river terraces, and floodplains. Vegetative Growth Spiny cocklebur is an annual plant that blooms in summer. It grows to 5’ tall with striate stems that are yellowish or brownish gray. The leaves may be entire or toothed or lobed. The lower surface of the leaves is covered with white hairs, and the upper leaf surface is white-veined.
I just bought an acreage that's been vacant for a year. It's 2 1/2 acres and covered in cockleburs. What's the best way to get rid of them and also the burs that are on the ground. I have small, long haired dogs that will have to be shaved if I can't get rid of them. Thanks for any advice.
Cockle Burrs. I hiked into an area near the Arkansas River and got into a bunch of these burrs. If you have ever gotten these on your clothes then you know that I had a time getting these off. (These burrs were an inspiration for Velcro.). It is covered with stiff, hooked spines, which sticks to fur and clothing and can be quite difficult to extract