Best Answer: I dont really think anything in alcohol causes constipation. It is liquid and is mainly processed by the liver and kidneys, not the digestive system. Many people believe that a lack of fiber in the diet causes constipation. I used to have this problem years ago. Alcohol does not cause constipation. I drink at least half a fifth every day and I'm never constipated. She's just trying to use this as an excuse for not being able to blow ***.
1 Warm beverages are calming and may help stimulate bowel movement. 2  Drink caffeine in moderation. 3  It has been shown to help constipation. 4  Make sure that you drink plenty of non-caffeinated beverages, too, so you don't become dehydrated. All of these factors can cause constipation (less frequent bowel movements with stools that are difficult to pass). Not drinking enough liquids and not eating enough also can be part of the cause of constipation. In addition, constipation can be a side effect of some chemotherapy medications.
What to eat if you're constipated: 1  Avoid foods that may lead to constipation. 2  Some common ones are bananas, cheese, and eggs. 3  Different foods affect people differently. 4  Drink more fluids to prevent dehydration — about 8 to 12 glasses each day (unless your doctor has advised something else). All of these factors can cause constipation (less frequent bowel movements with stools that are difficult to pass). Not drinking enough liquids and not eating enough also can be part of the cause of constipation. In addition, constipation can be a side effect of some chemotherapy medications.
1 Eat a well-balanced diet with plenty of fiber. 2  Good sources of fiber are fruits, vegetables, legumes, and whole-grain bread and cereal (especially bran). 3  Drink 1 1/2 to 2 quarts of water and other fluids a day (unless your doctor has you on a fluid-restricted diet). 4  Fiber and water work together to keep you regular. In many cases, you can. These things help: 1  Eat a well-balanced diet with plenty of fiber. 2  Good sources of fiber are fruits, vegetables, legumes, and whole-grain bread and cereal (especially bran). 3  Drink 1 1/2 to 2 quarts of water and other fluids a day (unless your doctor has you on a fluid-restricted diet).
When I'm constipated, I drink lots of room temperature water, eat some high fiber oatmeal. Also, take a few pills! Like stool softeners or fiber pills. k first u should eat lots of prunes. second cranberry juice by the gallons, third some sort of fibre drink which can be bought from a nutrition place. Medicine wont help, go natural all the way, that way you'll have a better chance. the meds have probably screwed up your colon. lastly fruit and water. plenty of it.
1. Drink plenty of water. Since constipation is related to dehydration in the colon, you need to make sure you are drinking lots of water. When your body is properly hydrated, less water will be withdrawn from the colon. This will keep your stool soft and easy to pass. 2. Get your fiber through fruits and veggies. Constipation is not only uncomfortable, it can also cause significant health issues. And it seems like more and more people are suffering from this problem. I get emails from people all the time asking for tips on how to relieve their constipation.
1 Make sure you drink more fluids if you eat more fiber, or your constipation might become worse. 2  Make sure your breakfast includes high-fiber foods and a hot drink. 3  Warm beverages are calming and may help stimulate bowel movement. All of these factors can cause constipation (less frequent bowel movements with stools that are difficult to pass). Not drinking enough liquids and not eating enough also can be part of the cause of constipation. In addition, constipation can be a side effect of some chemotherapy medications.
1 Consider water, prune juice, and warm fluids in the morning such as herbal tea or hot lemonade. 2  Eat more high-fiber foods, such as whole-grain breads and cereals, beans, fresh raw vegetables, fresh raw fruits or cooked fruits with the peel on, dried fruits, dates, apricots, prunes, popcorn, seeds, and nuts. All of these factors can cause constipation (less frequent bowel movements with stools that are difficult to pass). Not drinking enough liquids and not eating enough also can be part of the cause of constipation. In addition, constipation can be a side effect of some chemotherapy medications.
Best Answer: Use Colace stool softener. If you want something natural eat stewed prunes which you find in the canned fruit section. They are better than prune juice because you are getting the fiber. When I'm constipated I take 2 of my fish oil capsules with a lot of water and that always works. Don't eat bananas!!! Most fruit is good to cure constipation and people assume bananas are good. k first u should eat lots of prunes. second cranberry juice by the gallons, third some sort of fibre drink which can be bought from a nutrition place. Medicine wont help, go natural all the way, that way you'll have a better chance. the meds have probably screwed up your colon. lastly fruit and water. plenty of it.