USAA used to be a great company. I noticed a lot of this comments are from 8 years ago and I agree, 8 years ago USAA was top notch. Now in 2015 they are a regular company greedy insurance company. The prices are a little pricy but you get what you pay for which is excellent coverage and auto insurance. Now I would choose Geico over them just because of the lower prices and I have had accidents (my fault) with both insurance companies, but USAA overall is the most reliable..
USAA also insures members in Europe through its subsidiary, USAA Limited. It is uncommon for a U.S. based insurance company to provide international P&C coverage, but USAA does so because so many military families are stationed out-of-country. USAA offers a range of personal property and casualty (P&C) insurance, including automobile insurance, homeowner insurance, renters insurance, as well as umbrella and personal property insurance. In addition to P&C insurance, USAA provides whole life insurance, term life insurance, and annuities.
I think USAA is the best insurance company out there. The customer service is always exceptional, the claims process is outstanding. As a military family we were assigned to Turkey. I purchased a number of hand made woolen sweaters on the local economy. 
Automobile insurance provided by United Services Automobile Association, USAA Casualty Insurance Company, USAA General Indemnity Company, Garrison Property and Casualty Insurance Company, and USAA Ltd. (Europe), San Antonio, TX, and is available only to persons eligible for P&C group membership. USAA Auto Insurance Reviews. Member Ratings and Reviews is designed to allow members and customers to rate their experience with certain products and services offered by USAA and its affiliated companies.
USAA is an amazing company. We've had Auto insurance through them for about 10 years now. Never had a problem. The reps are laways friendly, and go out of thier way to help you. We have only had to files claims for our windshield but it's always been fast and easy. The prices are a little pricy but you get what you pay for which is excellent coverage and auto insurance. Now I would choose Geico over them just because of the lower prices and I have had accidents (my fault) with both insurance companies, but USAA overall is the most reliable..
USAA was founded in 1922 by a group of U.S. Army officers to self-insure one another when they were unable to secure auto insurance because of the perception that they, as military officers, were a high-risk group. USAA offers a range of personal property and casualty (P&C) insurance, including automobile insurance, homeowner insurance, renters insurance, as well as umbrella and personal property insurance. In addition to P&C insurance, USAA provides whole life insurance, term life insurance, and annuities.
Adult children of USAA members and U.S. military junior enlisted personnel make up a group known at USAA as associate members insured through a subsidiary called USAA-Casualty Insurance Company (USAA-CIC). USAA offers a range of personal property and casualty (P&C) insurance, including automobile insurance, homeowner insurance, renters insurance, as well as umbrella and personal property insurance. In addition to P&C insurance, USAA provides whole life insurance, term life insurance, and annuities.
USAA is short for United Services Automobile Association, and the name tells you a lot about the company. Where other insurance companies accept military employees, USAA only insures people who belong to the United States Military. They are listed in the Forbes 500 at 189 for revenue and 78th for total assets. Ditto. Like many other USAA members I had a long history (22) years with them as my insured for my automobiles and home. USAA is no longer the top company I thought of them in the past 18 years.