Most people enter the service at E-1, which stands for Enlisted Pay Grade 1. Most people advance to E-4 within about 3 years of service. Below is an example of the annual Regular Military pay for a servicemember at the E-4 pay level, with three years of military service. 
Bonus Tip. The one year trial plan. Both the Army Guard and Air National Guard offer the Try-One enlistment option to active duty veterans and all prior service individuals who are joining the Guard for the first time. This program lets you try the Guard for one year without additional commitment.
Almost A Career. The average length of enlistment for U.S. military personnel is just under 15 years for all branches. The average service time for officers is a bit less, averaging about 11 years. The U.S. Air Force has an average enlistment time of 14.7 years. The enlistment service time required is between two and six years, depending on with which branch of the military you sign on. However, the average length of total time enlisted is longer, due to those who decide to extend their time after their requirement has been fulfilled.
Benefit Highlights: Active Army Enlistment Bonus: Qualified active duty recruits may be eligible for a combination of bonuses totaling up to $40,000. The maximum bonus for a three, four, five, or six-year contract is based on periodic updates and is subject to change. Recruiters will have the most up to date bonus information. 
What is the average term of service for new recruits? Below are the average terms of service for active Army and Army Reserve accessions without previous military service for fiscal years 2005-2013. The maximum enlistment age is 35. Those individuals with no prior military service enlisting in the active Army must enter active duty or ship to training prior to their 35th birthday, and if enlisting in the Army Reserve, must access prior to their 35th birthday.
The earliest age at which individuals can enlist in any branch of the U.S. military is age 17, but at this age, they must have parental consent. However, the average age is higher given that some people enlist later. The maximum age for most branches is 35. On its recruiting website, the U.S. Army reported an average enlistment age of just under 21 in 2012. This was slightly lower than the average age from 2010 and 2011. It notes that you can join from ages 17 through 34. The U.S. Air Force Personnel Center website doesn't provide an enlistment age average, but it does note that age 29 is the average age of its enlisted force, as of 2013.
The maximum enlistment age is 35. A U.S. Army website that publishes recruitment data indicates that the 20.7-year average recruitment age for active duty in 2013 is actually lower than it has been in the past 13 years. In 2007, the average age of 21.7 and in 2010 it was 21.4, according to the site. A A. More than half of new enlistees in the U.S. Army are age 20 or older, a sharp rise from two decades ago, when older recruits made up just 35 percent of total Army enlistments, according to USA Today and the results of a newly released RAND Corp. study.
That's the amount of time most people spend in basic training, and it's the very lowest rung of the military pay scale. There's a good reason for that--all meals and housing are provided, so you don't get any military allowances. CertificateofEligibility. You'll need this before you use your VA loan benefits. Pay at the lowest rank for those in training status is considered low compared to those on active duty; just under $1300 per month according to the 2009 enlisted military pay chart. Once you've served more than four months, your pay goes up depending on what rank you were given when you enter basic training.