, to travel, from Middle Dutch. , to pull .]. trek′ker n. Word History: In South Africa in the 1800s, a common way of talking about the length of an overland journey was not in miles but in treks—the original meaning of the word trek in English was a day of traveling by ox cart, one stage in a journey by ox cart.. trek. intr.v. trekked, trek·king, treks. 1. To make a slow or arduous journey. 2.
Word History: In South Africa in the 1800s, a common way of talking about the length of an overland journey was not in miles but in treks—the original meaning of the word trek in English was a day of traveling by ox cart, one stage in a journey by ox cart.. From 1835 to 1843, more than 10,000 Boers, the Voortrekkers (The Foretrekkers), traveled north and northeast as part of the Groot Trek (Great Trek) and established independent Afrikaans-speaking states that were eventually incorporated into the British Empire and became part of the modern nation of South Africa.
A fan of Star Trek, aka Trekker, Alhough Gene Roddenberry once mentioned that the only word he acknowledged was Trekkie. Trekkies are commonly known for their unique behavior often memorizing everything there is to know about Star Trek, going too conventions, having every Star Trek episode on VHS or DVD. A fan of Star Trek. They try to own all of the series DVDs, buy all the merchandise they can, and attend all conventions possible. They enjoy watching Star Trek and hanging out with other trekkies. Surprisingly, most of them have lives and are very nice people.
Full Definition of TREK. 1. chiefly South African: a journey by ox wagon; especially: an organized migration by a group of settlers. 2. : a trip or movement especially when involving difficulties or complex organization: an arduous journey. : to walk usually for a long distance. : to travel by walking through an area with many mountains, rivers, etc., for pleasure and adventure. : to go on a long and often difficult journey.
trek. n. 1. a long and often difficult journey. 2. (Historical Terms) South African a journey or stage of a journey, esp a migration by ox wagon. vb, treks, trekking or trekked. trek. intr.v. trekked, trek·king, treks. 1. To make a slow or arduous
Trekker. A noun, trekkers are originally fans of the TV show Star Trek: the Next Generation, and used the term 'trekker' to differentiate themselves from the original star trek fans who called themselves 'trekkies' Trekker has now come to mean a Trekkie who doesn't understand that they're a trekkie. Thus were the beginnings of the nerdy cliches that have come to be associated with fans. It was to avoid associations with such cliches that original Star Trek fans became opposed to trekkie and sought to get the more serious-sounding term trekker used. Yeah, I'm a Star Trek fan, but I'm not a trekkie, I'm a trekker.
Original series Star Trek fans have had a preference for trekker, not trekkie, going back to the early '70s and the first conventions. At about that time, the mainstream media discovered Star Trek fandom with feature stories that usually had a condescending spin, including the term trekkie. Thus were the beginnings of the nerdy cliches that have come to be associated with fans. It was to avoid associations with such cliches that original Star Trek fans became opposed to trekkie and sought to get the more serious-sounding term trekker used. Yeah, I'm a Star Trek fan, but I'm not a trekkie, I'm a trekker.
(Transport in the vast spaces of colonial South Africa was often by ox cart, as it was on the Great Plains of the United States during the 1800s, too.) Trek comes from Afrikaans, the language of South Africa that descends from the dialects spoken by the Dutch settlers in the region. From 1835 to 1843, more than 10,000 Boers, the Voortrekkers (The Foretrekkers), traveled north and northeast as part of the Groot Trek (Great Trek) and established independent Afrikaans-speaking states that were eventually incorporated into the British Empire and became part of the modern nation of South Africa.