If you had to guess the most abundant organism on the whole planet, you’d probably think of ants or, maybe, bacteria. But a newly discovered virus might trump them all. Pelagibacter ubique is often cited as the most common organism ever: it’s a third of all the single-celled organisms in the ocean. But, as is always the case, something eats P. unique. In fact, four different viruses parasitize this one species.
Bacteria, on the other hand, are a much more diverse and widespread group. They are, by far, the most common prokaryotes on our planet today. Prokaryotic organisms are usually unicellular, but a few form simple colonies. Unicellular means an organism is composed of a single cell. Their collective mass is at least 10 times greater than the mass of all eukaryotes combined. Organisms composed of prokaryotic cells are classified into 2 main groups: archaea and bacteria. Archaea most closely resemble the first primitive cells on our planet.
Numbers of Insects (Species and Individuals) It has long been recognized and documented that insects are the most diverse group of organisms, meaning that the numbers of species of insects are more than any other group. In the world, some 900 thousand different kinds of living insects are known.
An introduction. Mollusca is one of the most diverse groups of animals on the planet, with at least 50,000 living species (and more likely around 200,000). It includes such familiar organisms as snails, octopuses, squid, clams, scallops, oysters, and chitons. 
By far, the most diverse group of arthropods is the insects superclass. More than 1,000,000 species are known to date! Runners up are the Chelicerata (spiders, scorpions, ho … rseshoe crabs, etc) with 77,000 species, and then the Crustacea (crabs, lobsters, etc) with 50,000 species. Anthropods is the largest and most diverse of all animals. These  animals have segmented bodies that are supported by an exoskeleton.  This group includes spiders, crustacea … ns, millipedes, and  centipedes. 2 people found this useful.
Arthropods as a phylum are the most diverse group of animals on earth. The answer I am looking for is a more precise one. I am looking for the most diverse FAMILY of organisms on the planet. Common names or latin names are fine, 10pts for the first right answer! good luck! Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel. Actually one family is still larger, if no one can provide the answer, I will award tonalc1 the... show more tonalc1 has one of the possibilities, the question as to which family of beetles comprises the most diverse order of animals on the planet is still in debate, but Curculionids are one of the top runners.
The smallest and most diverse group of organisms living on this planet. Prokaryotes are the original inhabitants of this planet, the first successful living organisms may have looked very like some of today's Archaea. Both Archaea and Bacteria evolved somewhere between 3 or 4 billion years ago, as far as we are able to tell from the fossil record. So even though there is plenty of nitrogen in the atmosphere, often very little of it is available for living things to use to grow. To build new proteins, etc., most organisms make use of nitrogen that is already part of a larger molecule, i.e. a dead plant or animal or animal waste products.
If you had to guess the most abundant organism on the whole planet, you might think of ants, or maybe bacteria. By Rose Eveleth. smithsonian.com. then compared their DNA with databases of DNA found in seawater from around the world, to find out how abundant each is. But a newly discovered virus might trump them all. Pelagibacter ubique is often cited as the most common organism ever: it’s a third of all the single-celled organisms in the ocean. But, as is always the case, something eats P. unique. In fact, four different viruses parasitize this one species.
Most people recognize biodiversity by species. A species is a group of living organisms that can interbreed. Examples of species include, blue whales, white-tailed deer, white pine trees, sunflowers and microscopic bacteria that you cannot even see with your eye. 1 The most diverse group of animals are invertebrates. 2  Invertebrates are animals without backbones, including insects, crustaceans, sponges, scorpions and many other kinds of organisms. 3  Over half of all the animals already identified are invertebrates. 4  Beetles are some of the most numerous species.
Update 3: tonalc1 has one of the possibilities, the question as to which family of beetles comprises the most diverse order of animals on the planet is still in debate, but Curculionids are one of the top runners. Actually one family is still larger, if no one can provide the answer, I will award tonalc1 the... show more tonalc1 has one of the possibilities, the question as to which family of beetles comprises the most diverse order of animals on the planet is still in debate, but Curculionids are one of the top runners.