Integrity Accounting Services, LLC is a boutique CPA firm that offers expertise in all areas of accounting, audit and attest, tax, nonprofit and business consulting services. 
Introduction The purpose of this paper is to define what information integrity means and provide a context for it for users and preparers of information and providers of assurance on such information. 4 In this paper, information integrity is defined as the representational faithfulness of the information to the underlying subject of that information and the fitness of the information for its intended use.
Definition of integrity. In business ethics, integrity describes how people live the moral values they say they believe in. For a person to have integrity, they need to know what their moral values are and then strive to model them in their behaviour. However, integrity is not an absolute and we must be cautious when anyone or any organisation claims to have complete integrity. The reality is that while we may strive to live up to our values and do the right thing, we will sometimes fail.
In this sense, the antonym of integrity is hypocrisy and to doubt the integrity of another without just cause is cynicism. The challenge for all of us, especially in business, is that moral values such as fairness, courage and love are easy to claim to have, but difficult to demonstrate. However, integrity is not an absolute and we must be cautious when anyone or any organisation claims to have complete integrity. The reality is that while we may strive to live up to our values and do the right thing, we will sometimes fail.
Integrity. Integrity is an important fundamental element of the accounting profession. Integrity requires accountants to be honest, candid and forthright with a client&amp;rsquo;s financial information. Accountants should restrict themselves from personal gain or advantage using confidential information. The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) is a professional organization responsible for developing professional accounting ethical values. The AICPA requires professional accountants to act responsibly when engaging in accounting services and reviewing sensitive financial information.
110.1 The principle of integrity imposes an obligation on all professional accountants to be straightforward and honest in all professional and business relationships. Integrity also implies fair dealing and truthfulness. 
Accounting Ethics and Integrity Standards. Failure to uphold accounting ethics in small businesses can result in legal challenges. Comstock/Comstock/Getty Images. As with other professional disciplines, understanding and upholding ethics is very important in the accounting field. These are the basic rules of accounting laid out by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, and their use ensures the reliability, comparability and integrity of financial statements. In some rare cases, business circumstances may require diversions from GAAP.
Small-business investors and leaders consistently rely on the ethical collection and delivery of financial information, and are sometimes placed at risk if accounting ethics are not preserved. These are the basic rules of accounting laid out by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, and their use ensures the reliability, comparability and integrity of financial statements. In some rare cases, business circumstances may require diversions from GAAP.
Definitions (3). 1.Strict adherence to a moral code, reflected in transparent honesty and complete harmony in what one thinks, says, and does. 2.State of a system where it is performing its intended functions without being degraded or impaired by changes or disruptions in its internal or external environments. 3.Stored or transmitted data that is free from any unauthorized change. See also data integrity. 7 people found this helpful. It always seems that the integrity of politicians are being questioned, especially by those members of the opposing parties who will stoop to any dirt-digging to smear their opponents. 9