A curmudgeon with years of practice. Answer: Dinosaurs lived on Earth for over 160 million years, from the late Triassic period (about 230 million years ago) until the end of the Cretaceous period (about 65 million years ago). At the end of the Cretaceous an extinction event caused the death of most dinosaur species. 
The last dinosaurs died approximately 65 million years ago. Although the cause of their extinction is still a mystery, climatic change, diseases, changing plant communities, and geologic events could all have played a role. Lately, dinosaur extinction theories have been the subject of much debate and controversy. 
Sixty-five million years ago the last of the non-avian dinosaurs went extinct. So too did the giant mosasaurs and plesiosaurs in the seas and the pterosaurs in the skies. Plankton, the base of the ocean food chain, took a hard hit. Many families of brachiopods and sea sponges disappeared. 
Astronomers and other scientists often speak of the extinction of dinosaurs on this earth. They believe that dinosaurs disappeared from the earth some 65 million years ago, long before man came along. They make these statements as if it were a known, proven scientific fact that dinosaurs were long gone by the time men appeared on the earth.
Dinosaurs lived between 230 and 65 million years ago, in a time known as the Mesozoic Era. This was many millions of years before the first modern humans, Homo sapiens, appeared. Scientists divide the Mesozoic Era into three periods: the Triassic, Jurassic and Cretaceous. 
Answer: Dinosaurs lived on Earth for over 160 million years, from the late Triassic period (about 230 million years ago) until the end of the Cretaceous period (about 65 mill … ion years ago). At the end of the Cretaceous an extinction event caused the death of most dinosaur species. 
Many Theories, No Proof. Dinosaurs roamed the earth for 160 million years until their sudden demise some 65.5 million years ago, in an event now known as the Cretaceous-Tertiary, or K-T, extinction event. The Permian-Triassic extinction event, known as the Great Dying, occurred 251.4 million years ago and eradicated 96 percent of all marine species and 70 percent of all terrestrial vertebrates species on earth.
Best Answer: I think 40-70 million years ago. It may be called the upper cretaceous period. But remember, not all dinosaurs became extinct. Alligators are still prevalent and haven't evolved much since then. And there is a popular theory that dinosaurs evolved into birds. 
If all of Earth time from the very beginning of the dinosaurs to today were compressed into 365 days (1 calendar year), the dinosaurs appeared January 1 and became extinct the third week of September. (Using this same time scale, the Earth would have formed approximately 18.5 years earlier.) By comparison, people (Homo sapiens) have been on earth only since December 31 (New Year's eve). The dinosaurs' long period of dominance certainly makes them unqualified successes in the history of life on Earth.
The discovery that birds are a type of dinosaur showed that dinosaurs in general are not, in fact, extinct as is commonly stated. However, all non-avian dinosaurs as well as many groups of birds did suddenly become extinct approximately 66 million years ago. While modern dinosaurs (birds) are generally small due to the constraints of flight, many prehistoric dinosaurs were large-bodied—the largest sauropod dinosaurs are estimated to have reached lengths of over 40 meters (130 feet) and heights of 18 meters (59 feet) and were the largest land animals of all time.