A serotonin receptor agonist is a compound that activates serotonin receptors, in a manner similar to serotonin. Non-selective agonists: Psilocin and DMT are serotonin analogs found in certain plants or mushrooms. These compounds act on a variety of serotonin receptor types. In addition to being 5-HT 1B agonists, triptans are also agonists at the 5-HT 1D receptor, which contributes to their antimigraine effect caused by vasoconstriction of blood vessels in the brain.
Agents used specifically in management of migraines and vascular headaches include: the ergot alkaloids, ergotamine and dihydroergotamine; and, the serotonin receptor agonists (triptans), including almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan and zolmitriptan. The triptans are serotonin agonists with high affinity for the 5-HT1B and 5-HT1D receptors which are found on smooth-muscle cells of blood vessels.
The serotonin type 4 (5-HT4) receptor agonists are potent prokinetic agents that act on serotonin receptors in the intestine and promote intestinal peristalsis, increase gastric emptying and decrease esophageal reflux. 
A serotonin receptor agonist is a compound that activates serotonin receptors, mimicking the effect of the neurotransmitter serotonin. There are various serotonin receptors. 5-HT2A receptor Edit. Hallucinogens like LSD, mescaline and psilocybin act as 5-HT 2A agonists, and action at this receptor is thought to be primarily responsible for their hallucinogenic effects (although the 5-HT 1A and 5-HT 2C receptors are also involved to a lesser extent).
The triptans are a group of serotonin receptor agonists that are useful in the therapy of vascular headaches and migraine. The triptans are serotonin agonists with high affinity for the 5-HT1B and 5-HT1D receptors which are found on smooth-muscle cells of blood vessels.
This article will focus on the classification of serotonin receptors, as well as drug classes that act on serotonergic transmission. This includes 5-HT agonists, antagonists and medications that modulate 5-HT at the presynaptic level, all of them of very high clinical relevance. Overdose of a combitation of serotonergic agents can lead to serotonin syndrome. This drug is used generally as somnorific. 5-HT4 agonists. Cisapride is a serotonin and cholinergic agonist used as a prokinetic drug, it was withdrawn from the U.S. market because of cardiovascular toxicity. Non-selective agonists. Ergotamine activates a more than one subtype of 5-HT receptor, it binds to 5-HT1A, 5-HT1D, 5-HT1B, D2 and norepinephrine receptors
The triptans (trip' tans) are synthetic serotonin receptor agonists that are used in the therapy of migraine and vascular headache. The triptans are serotonin agonists with high affinity for the 5-HT1B and 5-HT1D receptors which are found on smooth-muscle cells of blood vessels.
A serotonin antagonist is a drug used to inhibit the action at serotonin (5-HT) receptors. 
Description of Serotonin Agonists. Serotonin Agonists: Agents that have an affinity for serotonin receptors and are able to mimic the effects of serotonin by stimulating the physiologic activity at the cell receptors. These compounds are used as antidepressants, anxiolytics, and in the treatment of MIGRAINE DISORDERS. Source: MeSH 2007. 