Iambic describes the ti-tum rhythm that is used, and pentameter means that there are five of these iambic feet in each line. Iambic Tetrameter is the same rhythm of an unstressed syllable followed directly by a stressed one, except it is a group of four feet as opposed to the pentameter's five. meter: the rhythmic structure of a verse. iamb /iambic foot: a metrical unit made up of one unstressed syllable followed by a stressed syllable. Our Definition: Iambic pentameter and tetrameter is when the poet stresses certain syllables so that the poem is read a certain way. It helps the poem flow better or sound a specific way
Rhythm. The basic unit of an iambic tetrameter poem is the iamb, a very specific kind of poetic rhythm. An iamb is two syllables of sound, the first syllable unstressed and the second one stressed. Iambic tetrameter consists of four iambs per line, so the rhythm of a poem written in iambic tetrameter sounds like da DUM da DUM da DUM da DUM.
First, let's review the definition of an iamb. An iamb is a beat in a line of poetry where one unstressed syllable is followed by a stressed syllable. Iamb sounds like a heartbeat, sort of like duh-DUH. When four beats are placed together in a line of poetry, it is called tetrameter. When we combine iamb with tetrameter, it is a line of poetry with four beats of one unstressed syllable, followed by one stressed syllable, and it is called iambic tetrameter. It sounds like: duh-DUH, duh-DUH, duh-DUH, duh-DUH. Lesson Summary. Let's review. Iambic tetrameter is a line of poetry with four beats of one unstressed syllable, followed by one stressed syllable, which is said to have the natural duh-DUH sound of a heartbeat. A simple meter that is easily read aloud, it flows 'trippingly on the tongue,' as Shakespeare would say.
“Tetrameter” means “four measures.” Verse written in tetrameter has four measures, which are also called feet. In English, the most common foot or measure is the iamb, which is a pair of syllables that follow this pattern: ta TUM. Iambic tetrameter has four such feet, for a total of eight syllables. A line of poetry is in iambic tetrameter if it follows this pattern: ta TUM ta TUM ta TUM ta TUM.
A line of iambic tetrameter contains four feet. The iambic foot may be used in other meters, with less than or more than four. Similarly, tetrameter lines may contain other types of feet, where the stressed syllable is written first or with two unstressed syllables. Emily Dickinson is a famous poet who frequently used iambic tetrameter in her writing.
Definition of TETRAMETER. : a line of verse consisting either of four dipodies (as in classical iambic, trochaic, and anapestic verse) or four metrical feet (as in modern English verse). See tetrameter defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
Iambic tetrameter is a form of meter used in poetry consisting of four feet which feature a syllable that is unstressed followed by a stressed syllable. This pattern of unstressed and stressed may be expressed as beats assigned to each word, and is given the name iambic. Similarly, tetrameter lines may contain other types of feet, where the stressed syllable is written first or with two unstressed syllables. Emily Dickinson is a famous poet who frequently used iambic tetrameter in her writing.
It refers to a line consisting of four iambic feet. The word  tetrameter  simply means that there are four feet in the line; iambic tetrameter is a line comprising four iambs. Some poetic forms rely upon iambic tetrameter: triolet, Onegin stanza, Memoriam stanza, long measure (or long meter) ballad stanza. 
In poetry, a tetrameter is a line of four metrical feet. The particular foot can vary, as follows: 1  Anapestic tetrameter:  2 And the sheen of their spears was like stars on the sea  (Lord Byron, . 3  The Destruction of Sennacherib ). 