From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The languages of Austria include German, the official language and lingua franca; Austro-Bavarian, the main language outside Vorarlberg; Alemannic, the main language in Vorarlberg; and several minority languages. The main native language of Austria outside Vorarlberg is Austro-Bavarian, which is spoken using many different dialects. The northern parts of Austria (including Vienna, the capital) speak Central Austro-Bavarian dialects and the southern parts Southern Austro-Bavarian dialects.
German is the most spoken (and official) language in Germany, Austria, Switzerland, the Italian province of South Tyrol (Alto Adige) and Liechtenstein; it is also an official (but not majority) language of Belgium and Luxembourg. 
Austria. German is the official language spoken by 98% of the population as mother tongue. There are distinct differences between the many regional dialects, and also a wide variation in the 'standard' Hochdeutsch spoken from region to region. Slovene is an official language in the southern province of Carinthia. Other minority languages include Croatian (0.5%) and Hungarian (0.1%).
Burgenland Croatian, an official language in Burgenland, is spoken by 2.5% of Austrians, and Burgenland Croats are recognized as a minority and have enjoyed special rights following the Austrian State Treaty (Staatsvertrag) of 1955. The main native language of Austria outside Vorarlberg is Austro-Bavarian, which is spoken using many different dialects. The northern parts of Austria (including Vienna, the capital) speak Central Austro-Bavarian dialects and the southern parts Southern Austro-Bavarian dialects.
There are several other languages spoken in Austria, they are as follows: German (official nationwide) 88.6%, Turkish 2.3%, Serbian 2.2%, Croatian (official in Burgenland) 1.6%, other (includes Slovene, official in Carinthia, and Hungarian, official in Burgenland) 5.3% (2001 census). German is the official language and the main native language. A few with other languages are spoken by minorities. English is usually well understood and spoken, especially … by younger people and especially in the main tourist areas. 16 people found this useful.
A map showing the different language groups of the Austro-Hungarian empire. Austria-Hungary before World War I was an empire, the largest political entity in mainland Europe. It spanned almost 700,000 square kilometres and occupied much of central Europe: from the mountainous Tyrol region north of Italy, to the fertile plains of the Ukraine, to the Transylvanian mountains of eastern Europe.
Official Languages: The primary official language of Austria-Hungary was High German. In some aspects of the government, due to the dual monarchy, the second official language was Hungarian. The 1 official language of Hungary is Hungarian (Magyar), spoken by about 95% of the population. Here is a complete list of all 9 languages spoken in Hungary: 1. Armenian … 2. Croatian 3. German, Standard 4. Hungarian 5. Hungarian Sign Language 6. Romani, Balkan 7
Austria-Hungary was a multinational realm and one of the world's great powers at the time. Austria-Hungary was geographically the second-largest country in Europe after the Russian Empire, at 621,538 km 2 (239,977 sq mi), and the third-most populous (after Russia and the German Empire).