Mini Teddy Bear Puppies. Mini Teddy Bear puppies are a newer type of cross breed between a Shih Tzu and a Maltese. They are very similar to the full sized Teddy Bear dogs in their disposition, coloring, and temperament, and have also been bred to be hypo-allergenic as well. This particular type of designer dog has gained the term “Teddy Bear” because of their small size, delicate features, fluffy coat, large eyes, and general resemblance to a stuffed teddy bear. Teddy Bears are not an officially recognized breed of dog by the AKC.
A teddy bear is a designer breed dog that resembles a teddy bear. No it is not what you are thinking. It is a type of dog. Believe it or not there is a dog out there that is supposed to be so cute that it looks like a teddy bear. I had no idea what this was until we went looking for a puppy one day. We came home with the cutest little puppy I have ever seen. We all fell in love with it.
No, that’s not a teddy bear – it’s a Zuchon! A non-shedding, designer dog breed, the Zuchon is a mix of Shih Tzu and Bichon Frise. This breed is also known by the names of Shichon and Teddy Bear Zuchon (no surprise there). No matter what you call it, this dog will melt your heart and make a wonderful addition to your family. Photo credit: Tiny Teddy Bear Zuchons. The result of crossbreeding a Shih Tzu and Bichon Frise, the Zuchon is a hybrid dog. The first generation is a true cross while successive breeding of the original puppies will eventually result in a more standardized look and temperament.
Origin. The Teddy Bear is the result of a few different designer breeds. The Teddy Bear can be a mix of the Shih Tzu and the Poodle (Shih Poo), the Bichon Frise and the Toy Poodle (Poochon) or the Bichon Frise and the Shiz Tzu (Zuchon). In some cases, the Teddy Bear can be a mix of all three breeds. Designer breeds like the Teddy Bear have been bred both for their looks and their allergy-friendly coats. Size. The size of the Teddy Bear varies but generally the dog is small, weighing 12 to 14 pounds and measuring no more than 12 inches. Grooming Needs. The Teddy Bear is a low shedding breed with a soft and fluffy coat that resembles a stuffed animal
The Shih Tzu/Bichon Frise cross is also commonly known as a Zuchon, Shichon, or Tzu Frise. This particular type of designer dog has gained the term “Teddy Bear” because of their small size, delicate features, fluffy coat, large eyes, and general resemblance to a stuffed teddy bear. Teddy Bears are not an officially recognized breed of dog by the AKC.
Teddy Bear puppies are a relatively new type of dog, and have only been around since the late 1990’s. The name “Teddy Bear” doesn’t officially refer to one specific breed, but is most commonly used in descriptions of a cross breed between a Bichon Frise and a Shih Tzu. This particular type of designer dog has gained the term “Teddy Bear” because of their small size, delicate features, fluffy coat, large eyes, and general resemblance to a stuffed teddy bear. Teddy Bears are not an officially recognized breed of dog by the AKC.
Mini Teddy Bear puppies are a newer type of cross breed between a Shih Tzu and a Maltese. They are very similar to the full sized Teddy Bear dogs in their disposition, coloring, and temperament, and have also been bred to be hypo-allergenic as well. Teddy Bears are extremely loyal dogs and love physical contact. It is not unusual for a Teddy to take a midday nap on your lap, or at your feet. They usually get along very well with other pets, especially other dogs, and are very good with small children.
This particular type of designer dog has gained the term “Teddy Bear” because of their small size, delicate features, fluffy coat, large eyes, and general resemblance to a stuffed teddy bear. Teddy Bears are not an officially recognized breed of dog by the AKC. However, it is possible that with several more generations of breeding they will gain that acceptance under the name: Zuchon. Teddy Bear dogs can grow to be up to 20 lbs., but usually weigh between 11-16 when fully grown. Teddy Bears are extremely loyal dogs and love physical contact. It is not unusual for a Teddy to take a midday nap on your lap, or at your feet. They usually get along very well with other pets, especially other dogs, and are very good with small children.
Facts About Teddy Bear Dogs. The bichon frise often is one of a teddy bear dog's parents. If you've always wanted a small, snuggly companion who's also smart and sweet-tempered, a teddy bear dog might just be the perfect fit for you.
Teddy Bear puppies are a relatively new type of dog, and have only been around since the late 1990’s. The name “Teddy Bear” doesn’t officially refer to one specific breed, but is most commonly used in descriptions of a cross breed between a Bichon Frise and a Shih Tzu. Teddy Bears are extremely loyal dogs and love physical contact. It is not unusual for a Teddy to take a midday nap on your lap, or at your feet. They usually get along very well with other pets, especially other dogs, and are very good with small children.