Only the teeth of the upper jaw are exposed along the lower jaw line. Even the enormous 4th tooth on the bottom jaw, which is exposed in a crocodile, is hidden in the alligator. So in my opinion, the alligator would win a fight.
The crocodile would win because it has the large jaw with sharp teeth and thick skin to protect itself from injuries. The crocodile could easily kill a bull if it was in the w … ater, and was in a safe condition, but if the bull gored the crocodile with its horns, then it might kill it.
RE: who would win in a fight a crocodile or an alligator? i think the croc cause the bitting force of and average croc is almost a ton. i just want other opinions.
It seems that in open water, the shark would win, but if the crocodile is able to pull the shark towards shallow water or the shore, the crocodile wins. In their show's simulation, the shark won at the cost of its tail fin and therefore its life. However, they fought in open water in the simulation.
Who would win in a confrontation between a Crocodile and a Alligator. If we can make the assumption that both species is of the equal size and weight. Or is this too similar to the Lion Vs Tiger scenario in that they have similar combat skill. Also do Crocodiles and Alligators co-exist in the same environment.
So the croc would probably win, though alligators have much fatter jaws and have a more powerful bite, but I think that would only make the bites, at most, equal.
· just now. Report Abuse. It would depend on which species of crocodile and alligator were fighting! A lot of people think that Crocodiles are bigger and more aggressive, but this isn't always so, as some alligators grow to 14-15ft, which is longer that many crocs.
And although an alligator would appear relatively docile beside a Saltwater Crocodile (which can grow to 17-18ft, and even 20ft), there are species of alligator that can be more aggressive than many crocodiles.
I think that an aggressive crocodile would probably beat a shark of the same size, but I hope that this fight will not occur. In Animal Planet they had a fake show on who will win a croc or a shark. The crocodile was much smaller than the shark, which was wrong.