Once gas goes slightly bad, you can still use it if you put a little (1 gallon) in an (almost) full tank of fresh gas. The stuff I pulled out of the motorcycle was much darker than normal, and smelled so bad that I didn't even consider using it in an engine.
Can gas really go bad? (AOL Autos) -- Does gasoline really go bad if you leave it unused for a period of time? Some people are convinced this is just another urban legend, and that people who worry about old gas and spend money on fuel stabilizer are wasting psychic energy as well as cash.
Compare stored gasoline with fresh gas. If you notice it is darker or smells sour it is probably bad. But in fact, gasoline can degrade over time. That can lead to a number of problems, ranging from hard starting, to rough running, to no starting at all.
Also a member of the Patriot Guard. Yes, gasoline starts to go bad when it is about 1 month old. After 6 months you should not burn it in an engine unless you have put a fuel stabilizer in it. In that case it will be usable for about 8 months.
Still, no getting around one basic truth: in principle gas can go bad. The shelf life of gasoline depends on the type of gas and the storage conditions and can range from a couple months to a couple years. One wild card is that gas you buy at the pump may already have been in storage for anywhere from days to months.
If the gas in your tank was fairly fresh gasoline from a station that has a decent amount of traffic you should be fine. If it was from a hole in the wall gas station that has the same gas in their tanks for months then you may have a problem. Another condition is the temperature at which your car was stored at.
If you notice it is darker or smells sour it is probably bad. But in fact, gasoline can degrade over time. That can lead to a number of problems, ranging from hard starting, to rough running, to no starting at all. Here's why.
Some people are convinced this is just another urban legend, and that people who worry about old gas and spend money on fuel stabilizer are wasting psychic energy as well as cash. But in fact, gasoline can degrade over time.