The English Springer Spaniel field-bred dogs tend to have shorter, coarser coats than show-bred dogs. The ears are less pendulous. Field-bred dogs are wiry and have more of a feral look than those bred for showing. The tail of the field-bred dog may be docked a few inches in comparison to the show dog. The English Springer Spaniel is a medium-sized compact dog. Its coat is moderately long with feathering on the legs and tail. It is a well proportioned, balanced dog with a gentle expression and a friendly wagging tail.
Feeding Fido. As a medium dog expected to live 15 years or more, the Welsh Springer Spaniel will need approximately 1.5 to 2.5 cups of dry dog food daily. Proper nutrition is necessary for the dog to grow and thrive. Find and compare options below. 
The English Springer Spaniel is a breed of gun dog in the Spaniel family traditionally used for flushing and retrieving game. It is an affectionate, excitable breed with an average lifespan of twelve to fourteen years. The English Springer Spaniel is a medium-sized compact dog. Its coat is moderately long with feathering on the legs and tail. It is a well proportioned, balanced dog with a gentle expression and a friendly wagging tail.
If you are sure of her breeding dates, this is a better estimate than size for delivery. I would also recommend taking her rectal temperature starting about 1 week before her due date at the same time each day (morning) and monitoring for a dip in temperature within 24 hours of whelping. While a nursing puppy may loose weight in the first 24 hours, he/she should then gain 5-10% of his/her birth weight/day, double his weight in the first 10 days and gain 2g/kg of expected adult weight/day.
UKC = United Kennel Club. Winter Sam the field English Springer Spaniel as a puppy at 10 weeks old— Winter Sam is 10 weeks old. He is a field/working Springer Spaniel and both of his parents are working gun dogs. He has been living with us for 2 weeks and is very intelligent and calm for a puppy his age. Both size dogs were and still are good at hunting on land and water and good at work in brush, also making a fine retriever. It was not until 1902 that the Kennel Club of England recognized the English Setter as a separate breed from the Cocker Spaniel. The English Springer Spaniel was recognized by the AKC in 1910.
The English Springer Spaniel is a medium-sized sporting dog, with a compact body and a docked tail. His coat is moderately long, with feathering on his legs, ears, chest and brisket. 
The English Cocker has a medium-length coat, although the English Cockers you see in the field have a shorter coat than those in the show ring. They are 14 to 17 inches tall at the shoulder and weigh between 26 and 34 pounds. As sporting dogs, English Cockers have a lot of stamina and energy. English Cockers are a medium-size dog breed with long ears and a happy disposition. The name Cocker comes from their use to hunt woodcock in England, although English Cockers have been used to hunt many other types of birds as well.
The English Springer Spaniel is the largest of the Spaniel breeds. They were quite popular during the Renaissance period as they were ideal companions for the European hunter. This breed became popular in America in 1700. Currently, there are two distinct types of the English Springer Spaniel. Those bred for the conformation ring are referred to as bench bred. Those that are bred for hunting and/or field trials are referred to as field bred. 1 Comment. Anonymous. The average birth weight of the English Springer Spaniel is 250-350 grams, but it can vary depending on the size of the dam and sire, how much nutrition the dam got and how big the litter is.
Feeding Fido. As a medium dog expected to live 14 years or more, the English Springer Spaniel will need approximately 1.5 to 2.5 cups of dry dog food daily. Proper nutrition is necessary for the dog to grow and thrive. Find and compare options below. Description: The English Springer Spaniel is a medium purebred known for being affectionate, alert, cheerful, energetic, intelligent, playful, and social. The most common colors for English Springer Spaniels are black, brown, red, white, and yellow. To keep it healthy, it will need to get exercise regularly.