Median of all compensation (including tips, bonus, and overtime) by years of experience. VPs of Operations with a lot of experience tend to enjoy higher earnings. Workers in their first five years can expect to earn $90K, but people who have been around for five to 10 years earn a noticeably bigger sum of $109K. On average, VPs of Operations make $132K following one to two decades on the job. VPs of Operations with more than 20 years of experience report incomes that are only modestly higher; the median for these old hands hovers around $149K
Directs project leads/managers and ensures all projects are completed on time, within budget, and according to pre-established specifications for their region. Requires a bachelor's degree with at least 15 years of experience in the field. Familiar with a variety of the field's concepts, practices, and procedures. Develops procedures to ensure regulatory compliance. Requires a bachelor's degree in area of specialty and 15 years of experience in the field or in a related area. Demonstrates expertise in
The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) does not report job growth statistics for bank vice presidents. They do, however, report job opportunities for loan officers and finance managers -- similar careers -- which are expected to increase by 14 and 9 percent, respectively, in the next 10 years. Bank vice presidents earned average annual salaries of $104,000 as of 2013, according to the job website Indeed.com. Most have bachelor's degrees in finance, accounting, economics or business administration.
Though nationally Business Development Managers make an average $73K annually, those in this field can find the most generous pay at Google, Inc., where the average salary is around $190K. Median pay for Business Development VPs is $147K annually. The most common career progression for Business Development Managers leads to becoming a Business Development Director, where average pay is $112
People with 10 to 20 years of experience make an average of about $95K in this role. Folks who have racked up more than 20 years in the field report incomes that aren't that much higher than less experienced individuals' earnings; the veterans make just $103K on average. Median pay for Business Development VPs is $147K annually. The most common career progression for Business Development Managers leads to becoming a Business Development Director, where average pay is $112
Business Development Managers will also find cushy salaries at Cisco Systems Inc (+$148K), Lockheed Martin Corp (+$142K), and Hewlett-Packard Company (+$141K). This report is based on responses to the PayScale salary survey. Median pay for Business Development VPs is $147K annually. The most common career progression for Business Development Managers leads to becoming a Business Development Director, where average pay is $112
Employers may account for living costs when establishing salary ranges for these jobs. A construction company vice president earning $105,000 in New Orleans would need to make $236,157 in New York City to maintain his current living standard, according to CNN Money's Cost of Living calculator. 
Average salaries for bank VPs can vary by as much as $30,000 within certain U.S. regions. Those in the Northeast earned between $92,000 and $122,000 per year, according to Indeed.com -- with lows in Pennsylvania and highs in New York. In the West, salaries ranged from lows of $74,000 in Hawaii to $114,000 in California. Bank vice presidents earned average annual salaries of $104,000 as of 2013, according to the job website Indeed.com. Most have bachelor's degrees in finance, accounting, economics or business administration.
Manages the marketing, sales and product development teams to implement business development initiatives. Requires a bachelor's degree in business, finance or marketing with 4 years of experience in the field or a related area. Familiar with a variety of the field's concepts, practices, and procedures. Relies on experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. Assists in the development of a strong pipeline of new customers and projects in accounts through direct or indirect customer contact and prospecting. Works with marketing, sales,
Oversees relationship with vendors to ensure appropriate employee participation in outside training programs. Requires a bachelor's degree in area of specialty and at least 15 years of experience in the field or in a related area. Familiar with a variety of the field's concepts, practices, and procedures. Relies on extensive experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. Performs a variety of tasks. Develops procedures to ensure regulatory compliance. Requires a bachelor's degree in area of specialty and 15 years of experience in the field or in a related area. Demonstrates expertise in