Other well known singers that used G-funk were Bone Thugs-n-Harmony, Tupac Shakur, Nate Dogg, Mac Dre, Spice 1, Geto Boys, Havoc & Prodeje, BG Knocc Out, Dresta, Rappin' 4-Tay, 3X Krazy and Warren G. However, one week prior to the release of N.W.A'S Niggaz4Life, DJ Jazzy Jeff & The Fresh Prince released  Summertime , their first G-Funk song, which hit #1 on the Billboard R&B charts and Billboard Rap charts.
Music theorist Adam Krims has described G-funk as a style of generally West Coast rap whose musical tracks tend to deploy live instrumentation, heavy on bass and keyboards, with minimal (sometimes no) sampling and often highly conventional harmonic progressions and harmonies. Another early G-funk pioneer, also from Compton, was rapper and producer DJ Quik, who was already using P-Funk instrumentals as early as 1991 in his debut album Quik Is the Name, though his most recognizable G-funk album would be 1995's Safe & Sound.
G-Funk is the laid-back, Parliament/Funkadelic-inspired variation of gangsta rap developed by Dr. Dre in the early '90s. 
G-funk, or gangsta-funk, is a subgenre of hip hop music that emerged from West Coast gangsta rap in the early 1990s. However, one week prior to the release of N.W.A'S Niggaz4Life, DJ Jazzy Jeff & The Fresh Prince released  Summertime , their first G-Funk song, which hit #1 on the Billboard R&B charts and Billboard Rap charts.
G-funk (which uses funk with an artificially altered tempo) incorporates multi-layered and melodic synthesizers, slow hypnotic grooves, a deep bass, background female vocals, the extensive sampling of P-Funk tunes, and a high-pitched portamento saw wave synthesizer lead. However, one week prior to the release of N.W.A'S Niggaz4Life, DJ Jazzy Jeff & The Fresh Prince released  Summertime , their first G-Funk song, which hit #1 on the Billboard R&B charts and Billboard Rap charts.
Welcome to the home of Gareth John, who by the alias of G-Funk is a professional brass musician and educator. He also works as a music entrepreneur and promoter around the UK, and has recently moved into the bookings side of music, handling the live bookings for emerging singer-songwriter, Yoji. 
Since the late 1980s hip hop artists have regularly sampled old funk tunes. James Brown is said to be the most sampled artist in the history of hip hop, while P-Funk is the second most sampled artist; samples of old Parliament and Funkadelic songs formed the basis of West Coast G-funk. Electro funk is a hybrid of electronic music and funk. It essentially follows the same form as funk, and retains funk's characteristics, but is made entirely (or partially) with a use of electronic instruments such as the TR-808. Vocoders or talkboxes were commonly implemented to transform the vocals.
G-funk (which uses funk with an artificially altered tempo) incorporates multi-layered and melodic synthesizers, slow hypnotic grooves, a deep bass, background female vocals, the extensive sampling of P-Funk tunes, and a high-pitched portamento sine wave synthesizer lead. Another early G-funk pioneer, also from Compton, was rapper and producer DJ Quik, who was already using P-Funk instrumentals as early as 1991 in his debut album Quik Is the Name, though his most recognizable G-funk album would be 1995's Safe & Sound.
TOP 20 Best song of G-Funk. these songs just i like to listening now. NO.1 Warren G ft Nate Dogg-This D.J. NO.2 Dr Dre ft Snoop Dogg-Fuck wit Dre Day. NO.3 foesum-in the wind. NO.4 Twinz-Journey Wit Me. NO.5 Warren G Nate Dogg-Regulate. NO.6 EazyE-Real Muthafuckin g's. NO.7 Mc Eiht-Straight Up Menace
G Funk, is a type of hip hop music that emerged from West Coast gangsta rap in the early 1990s. 