Molkosan ® is one of Alfred Vogel’s original remedies. Made from whey obtained from organic milk, Molkosan ® is rich in a substance known as L+ lactic acid which is now known to support the growth of good gut bacteria. In this way, it acts as a prebiotic. 500ml £ 10.95 (in stock). 200ml £ 5.65 (in stock). Molkosan ® is made from fresh organic whey using a special fermentation process involving lactic acid producing bacteria. It is rich in L+ lactic acid – a substance which improves the environment for friendly gut bacteria. Molkosan ® is: 1  Rich in L+ lactic acid. 2  Lactose and calorie free. 3  Fat and sugar free. 4  Gluten free.
10 0 8.5 20. Molkosan® is a great source of minerals such as potassium and calcium that help to bring the pH of the body into balance. It is used as a daily drink to maintain a healthy intestinal flora due to its natural lactic acid content. Calcium and Phosphorus aids in the formation and maintenance of bones and teeth. Molkosan® contains a high content of minerals. Minerals are known to normalize the metabolism and de-acidify the body. Externally, Molkosan® is useful as a tonic and exfoliating lotion for the face and against skin irritation and other skin problems (on a wet cotton swab).
The latest member of the Molkosan family, Molkosan Fruit is a drink concentrate which offers a tasty way to support healthy digestion. Enhancing the original formula of Molkoson, which is made from 100% natural fermented whey and rich in L+ lactic acid, Molkosan Fruit puts a juicy new twist on an old favourite. Molkosan is one of Alfred Vogel s original remedies. He understood the benefits of taking whey, and developed Molkosan to make it simple for everyone to have access to the benefits of whey s L+ on a daily basis.
Health Information. The name A.Vogel's Molkosan is derived from Molke, the German word for whey, which is naturally lacto-fermented by adding special cultures. This enables most of the lactose to be converted to lactic acid, however 4.5% of lactose remains. Contains (L+) -Lactic acid. Molkosan is made from fresh whey by a special lacto-fermentation (using lactobacillus bacteria), concentration and pasteurization process. Molkosan is renowned for its many traditional uses as a food supplement. Helps maintain healthy intestinal flora.
Molkosan ® is one of Alfred Vogel’s original remedies. Made from whey obtained from organic milk, Molkosan ® is rich in a substance known as L+ lactic acid which is now known to support the growth of good gut bacteria. In this way, it acts as a prebiotic. The origins of Molkosan ®. Whey is a by-product of cheese production and has a long history of use in healthcare going as far back as the time of Hippocrates (400 B.C.).
In the production of Molkosan, a process involving lactobacillus bacteria creates a positive and relatively rare form of lactic acid, which has two main effects. 1. It makes it very difficult for unfriendly bacteria to gain a hold in the gut. 2. 
Molkosan is very rich in minerals (calcium, potassium, phosphorus, etc.) and has an acid pH. It contains lactic acid in its levogyral or physiologic form: L(+)-lactic acid. Lactic acid is a natural antiseptic and a keratolytic agent (it helps to remove dead skin and cells from the epidermis). Because of its high content in natural lactic acid, Molkosan has an acid pH. Concentrated lactofermented whey. Dosage INTERNAL USE: Adults: mix 1 tablespoon (15 ml) in a glass of water, juice or herb tea.
Molkosan® contains lactic acid in its levogyral or physiologic form: L (+)-lactic acid. Lactic acid is a natural antiseptic and a keratolytic agent (it helps to remove dead skin and cells from the epidermis). Calcium Is indispensable to the growth of bones and teeth. Molkosan® contains a high content of minerals. Minerals are known to normalize the metabolism and de-acidify the body. Externally, Molkosan® is useful as a tonic and exfoliating lotion for the face and against skin irritation and other skin problems (on a wet cotton swab).