wolves usually live in colder climates but you never know because wolves adapt to many environments such as the red wolf for example... they live in warmer areas like in the p … lains. wolves stay in the wilderness unless desperate for food and will kill livestock.if your looking for what states you can find them in... Wolves will spawn in normal forests and tiagas (spruce forests with  sometimes snow). They are hard to find so just walk around and you  can come accross one. Remember to br … ing bones icase you want to  tame one!
Mainly in Canada, Alaska and Russia Answer Wolves live in many places, including North America, Siberia, and Greenland. They do not live in all fifty states, but they do live … in many of them. Wolves will spawn in normal forests and tiagas (spruce forests with  sometimes snow). They are hard to find so just walk around and you  can come accross one. Remember to br … ing bones icase you want to  tame one!
Size: Wolves vary in size depending on where they live. Wolves in the north are usually larger than those in the south. The average size of a wolf's body is 3-5 feet long. Their tails are usually 1-2 feet long. Females typically weigh 60-100 pounds, and males weigh 70-145 pounds. 1 When a wolf wants to show that it is submissive to another wolf, it will crouch, whimper, tuck in its tail, lick the other wolf's mouth or roll over on its back. 2  When a wolf wants to challenge another wolf, it will growl or lay its ears back on its head. 3  A playful wolf dances and bows. 4  Wolves bark as a warning.
Tracking also helps biologists learn more about the wolves'territory. A territory is the space in which wolves live. Wolves live together in family groups called packs, usually 2-12 wolves. Each wolf pack needs about 20 to 100 square miles of territory in which to find water, food, shelter and to raise young. Wolves defend these territories from other wolves by scent marking and by howling. Just like some people mark the edges of their property with signs and fence posts, many animals mark their territory, only they do it by urinating and defecating. Check out this map of wolf territories (Leaves EEK!) to find out where you can find wolves in Wisconsin.
Wolf Families = Wolf Packs. Wolves live in family groups called packs. A pack is usually made up of a male parent, a female parent and their pups from the last few years. Usually, four to six pups are born together in a litter. 
The gray wolf or grey wolf (Canis lupus) also known as the timber wolf, or western wolf, is a canid native to the wilderness and remote areas of North America and Eurasia. It is the largest extant member of its family, with males averaging 43–45 kg (95–99 lb), and females 36–38.5 kg (79–85 lb). The gray wolf is one of the world's best known and well researched animals, with probably more books written about it than any other wildlife species.
Historically, the Gray Wolf was once the world's most widely distributed mammal, livi … ng north of 15°N latitude in North America and 12°N in Eurasia. Though once abundant, the gray wolf inhabits a very small portion of its former range because of widespread destruction of its territory by human encroachment. 
For most of the year, the arctic wolf habitat is covered in thick ice. Unlike their cousins, the grey wolves and timber wolves who live further south in warmer climates, the arctic wolves are unable to dig through the frozen ground to create dens. For this reason, they shelter in caves and outcrops and among trees. Much of it lies empty. The presence of prey animals determines where the arctic wolf makes his home. If there's no vegetation on which arctic hares, musk oxen and caribou might survive, the arctic wolf will most likely not be present. Many arctic wolf populations live near the sea, where they feed on seals and seabirds.
Historically, the red wolf lived as far north as Pennsylvania, as far south as Florida, and as far west as Texas. Today, wild red wolves can only be seen in North Carolina’s Alligator River National Wildlife Refuge. However, there are many zoos that are part of the captive breeding program across the United States, including the Tallahassee Museum.
you can find wolves in any really rainy, And/or green area of the wild. as well as in caves. but they tend to stay near body's of water. as well as heavily populated areas by … rabbits and other small mammals that can provide easy food for their cubs. 1 person found this useful. Wolves will spawn in normal forests and tiagas (spruce forests with  sometimes snow). They are hard to find so just walk around and you  can come accross one. Remember to br … ing bones icase you want to  tame one!