Among the principal works and stories in the Mahabharata are the Bhagavad Gita, the story of Damayanti, an abbreviated version of the Ramayana, and the Rishyasringa, often considered as works in their own right. [məɦaːˈbʱaːrət̪əm]) is one of the two major Sanskrit epics of ancient India, the other being the Ramayana. The Mahabharata is an epic narrative of the Kurukshetra War and the fates of the Kaurava and the Pandava princes. It also contains philosophical and devotional material, such as a discussion of the four goals of life or purusharthas (12.161)
In the Hindu Epic the Mahabharata, the creation of Vedas is credited to Brahma. The Vedic hymns themselves assert that they were skillfully created by Rishis (sages), after inspired creativity, just as a carpenter builds a chariot. Thus, from all the Vedas, Brahma framed the Nātya Veda. From the Rig Veda he drew forth the words, from the Sama Veda the melody, from the Yajur Veda gesture, and from the Atharva Veda the sentiment. — First chapter of Nātyaśāstra, Abhinaya Darpana.
The Vedas (/ˈveɪdəz, ˈviː-/ ; Sanskrit: वेद veda,  véda ) knowledge are a large body of texts originating in Ancient. India composed In Vedic, sanskrit the texts constitute the oldest layer Of sanskrit literature and the oldest scriptures Of. hinduism Thus, from all the Vedas, Brahma framed the Nātya Veda. From the Rig Veda he drew forth the words, from the Sama Veda the melody, from the Yajur Veda gesture, and from the Atharva Veda the sentiment. — First chapter of Nātyaśāstra, Abhinaya Darpana.
The Itihasas (itihasa is Sanskrit for history or thus verily happened) are narrative traditions composed during the period 500 BCE to 1000 CE. They tell the stories of divine incarnations along with much philosophical and ethical reflection. 
The Mahabharata and Ramayana are the national epics of India. They are probably the longest poems in any language. The Mahabharata, attributed to the sage Vyasa, was written down from 540 to 300 B.C. The Mahabharata tells the legends of the Bharatas, a Vedic Aryan group. Puranas. The Puranas are post-Vedic texts which typically contain a complete narrative of the history of the Universe from creation to destruction, genealogies of the kings, heroes and demigods, and descriptions of Hindu cosmology and geography.
The Ramayana (/rɑːˈmɑːjənə/ ; Sanskrit: रामायणम्, Rāmāyaṇam, [rɑːˈmɑːjəɳəm]) is a Sanskrit epic poem ascribed to the Hindu sage and Sanskrit poet Valmiki. It is regarded as one of the two great works of Indian literature, along with the Mahabharata. The Ramayana also plays an important role in Hindu literature (smṛti). In the Jain epic of Ramayana, it is Lakshmana who ultimately kills Ravana and not Rama as told in the Hindu version. In the end, Rama who led an upright life renounces his kingdom, becomes a Jain monk and attains moksha. On the other hand, Lakshmana and Ravana go to hell.
3. For someone who is born in India, some of the few mythological stories we watch on tv/hear from our grandparents are Ramayana, excerpts from Mahabharata or other Vedic stories of gods, the vedic way of life/afterlife etc etc... Well as a kid, I really liked them. There are proofs that the Ramayana and the Mahabharata really happened. I am not going to dwell on the proof's part. putting this aside, we also have vedic science, vedic mathematics, vedic metric systems, vedic cosmology, astronomy, yugas, evolution, ayurveda(medicine) the list keeps going on.
1 The Mahabharata, that is, the great Bharata, is one of the two most important ancient epics of India, the other being the Ramayana. 2  The Mahabharata was compiled in Ancient India. 3  One of the Indian sages (rishi) named Vyasa is believed to have composed the work. 1 The name means “great [story of the] Bharatas.” Bharata was an early ancestor of both the Pandavas and Kauravas who fight each other in a great war, but the word is also used generically for the Indian race, so the Mahabharata sometimes is referred to as “the great story of India.”.
The Mahabharata is the longest known epic poem and has been described as the longest poem ever written. Its longest version consists of over 100,000 shloka or over 200,000 individual verse lines (each shloka is a couplet), and long prose passages. [məɦaːˈbʱaːrət̪əm]) is one of the two major Sanskrit epics of ancient India, the other being the Ramayana. The Mahabharata is an epic narrative of the Kurukshetra War and the fates of the Kaurava and the Pandava princes. It also contains philosophical and devotional material, such as a discussion of the four goals of life or purusharthas (12.161)