Rune stones, (sometimes cards), are used as tools of divination-a way to predict one's future. Rune Stones come in a set of 24 ancient alphabetic symbols. They can be made of different materials-wood or glass most common and attractive-and usually kept in a pouch or box. They usually come with a book of instructions defining the symbols. Ideally ruins are cast on an East-West axis or facing the sun.
I work with the Elder Futhark, the runic alphabet which is a composite of the runic symbols most commonly used in northern Europe. The names of the runes of the Elder Futhark are speculative recreations of what linguists call proto-Germanic, which stems from proto-Indo-European.
As well as an idea, each rune represents a sound, and thus runes are means for spelling words. Just as the alphabet is named from the first two characters in it, so the rune row is known as the Futhark from the first six runes. Originally, runes were usually made up of straight lines, making them easy to carve.
Some feel that the day rune is a good way to get an answer to a single question. The 3 Rune Spread is used for asking broader questions whereas the single rune can be drawn on a daily basis. Meanings and interpretations of each rune stone are shown below. FEHU-F: Cattle. Abundance through effort, inheritance of self and self value, material gain, earned income.
A set of runes is helpful when studying individual runes or for meditation purposes. A set for these purposes will often be painted large on pieces of card. However, most people nowadays use rune sets for divination. One or more runes can be picked blind and at random from a bag.
The runes are broken into three sections or groups of eight, called aett (aettir, plural). This helps one to remember their order, and later, you will see, has significance in magical uses. First the rune name is given, then its phonetic value, its symbolic image, and finally the esoteric meaning used in divination. Rune users disagree on whether or not to place a different meaning on a rune that falls in an inverted or reversed position. Some runes look the same upside down and right side up.