CTCA. Sugar, in all forms, is a simple carbohydrate that the body converts into glucose and uses for energy. But the effect on the body and your overall health depends on the type of sugar you’re eating, either natural or refined. 
Super-refined sugar is a type often used in commercial food products. Some of these products include sodas and other sugary beverages. This kind of sugar is also often used in pie meringues, because it dissolves quickly and give a smooth texture to food. Some sugar, especially the type called refined, cause a rapid rise in blood sugar that could raise your risk of diabetes and other chronic problems. A large number of the foods we eat contain refined sugar, which could pose as large a health problem as dietary fats and cholesterol.
Noun. 1. refined sugar-a white crystalline carbohydrate used as a sweetener and preservative. sugar. caramelized sugar, caramel-burnt sugar; used to color and flavor food. lump sugar-refined sugar molded into rectangular shapes convenient as single servings. 
Powdered sugar, or confectioner's sugar, is the last type of refined sugar. It has a much smoother texture than the other types of refined sugars and is commonly used in icings and similar dessert toppings. It mixes easily and creates a smooth product. Some sugar, especially the type called refined, cause a rapid rise in blood sugar that could raise your risk of diabetes and other chronic problems. A large number of the foods we eat contain refined sugar, which could pose as large a health problem as dietary fats and cholesterol.
When planning a healthy diet, it's important to pay attention to sugar, a major staple that provides carbohydrate nutrients. Some sugar, especially the type called refined, cause a rapid rise in blood sugar that could raise your risk of diabetes and other chronic problems. A large number of the foods we eat contain refined sugar, which could pose as large a health problem as dietary fats and cholesterol.
Granulated sugar is the most common type of refined sugars It is consumed by many on a regular basis and is found in most homes. Granulated sugar is often used to sweeten beverages, such as coffee and tea. Some sugar, especially the type called refined, cause a rapid rise in blood sugar that could raise your risk of diabetes and other chronic problems. A large number of the foods we eat contain refined sugar, which could pose as large a health problem as dietary fats and cholesterol.
[G. sakcharon; L. saccharum ]. the colloquial term for sucrose. Commercial table sugar comes from either sugar cane or sugar beet. Chemically, the term sugars includes sucrose and other disaccharides (maltose, lactose) and also the simple sugars, the monosaccharides (pentoses, hexoses). A disaccharide is a double sugar, such as sucrose (table sugar) or lactose. A polysaccharide is a sugar made up of repeating units of glucose, such as cellulose, starch, and glycogen. See also carbohydrate, fructose, galactose, glucose, saccharide, sucrose.
Refined sugar is made from raw sugar that has undergone a refining process to remove the molasses. Raw sugar is a sucrose which is synthesized from sugar cane or sugar beet and cannot immediately be consumed before going through the refining process to produce refined sugar or white sugar. Sugar is the generalized name for sweet, short-chain, soluble carbohydrates, many of which are used in food. They are carbohydrates, composed of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. There are various types of sugar derived from different sources.
Simple sugars are called monosaccharides and include glucose (also known as dextrose), fructose and galactose. The table or granulated sugar most customarily used as food is sucrose, a disaccharide. (In the body, sucrose hydrolyses into fructose and glucose.) Other disaccharides include maltose and lactose. Longer chains of sugars are called oligosaccharides. Sugar is the generalized name for sweet, short-chain, soluble carbohydrates, many of which are used in food. They are carbohydrates, composed of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. There are various types of sugar derived from different sources.