Causes of Abdominal Distension. The common causes of abdominal distension are usually gas, Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) and constipation. Other causes could be fibroids, ascites or intra-abdominal bleeding. Less common causes could be cysts, tumors and neoplasms.
Abdominal distension occurs when substances, such as air (gas) or fluid, accumulate in the abdomen causing its outward expansion beyond the normal girth of the stomach and waist. It is typically a symptom of an underlying disease or dysfunction in the body, rather than an illness in its own right.
Abdominal distension (either gas or fluid accumulation) can have many underlying causes. Commonly this condition can be caused due to overeating or swallowing excess air (aerophagia). Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS), constipation, dyspepsia and diabetes is also known to cause this condition.
Abdominal distention. Also known as Ascites and Swollen Abdomen. Abdominal distension occurs when substances, such as air (gas) or fluid, accumulate in the abdomen causing its outward expansion beyond the normal girth of the stomach and waist. It is typically a symptom of an underlying disease or dysfunction in the body, rather than an illness in its own right.
Abdominal distension refers to the swelling of the abdomen. The distension may be caused by either air (gas) or fluid collection. The accumulated substance causes an outward expansion of the stomach and waist beyond normal proportions.
A distended stomach is a term usually used to refer to distension or swelling of the abdomen and not of the stomach itself. When the term is used in this manner, a number of different diseases and conditions can cause abdominal distension.
Less commonly, ovarian cysts or other types of tumors can cause the appearance of a distended abdomen. A distended stomach (abdomen) can be associated with other symptoms, including belching, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, fever, or abdominal pain.
Abdominal distension may be due to a number of reasons which are not always related to any disease. The most common causes of generalized abdominal bloating or a swollen stomach is due to the five F’s – flatus (gas), fat, fluid, feces (constipation), fetus (pregnancy).