The purity of the product will also be analyzed. The product will be analyzed by three different methods: melting point, titration, and spectroscopic assay. The melting point range of pure aspirin is 138-140 C and the melting point range of the salicylic acid starting material is 158-161 C. Your instructor will demonstrate how to use the melting point apparatus. Allow the temperature of the melting point apparatus to increase 1 C per minute starting from 120 C. Measure the melting point range of the aspirin product. The melting point range is the temperature when you first notice the aspirin crystals melting up until the temperature when no crystals remain
Normally, aspirin melts between 138 and 140 C. The melting point range for salicylic acid is 158 -160 C. At these temperatures, the crystals' lattice energy is broken, and they undergo a phase change from solid state to liquid state. 
1 Aspirin is the common name for the compound acetylsalicylic acid, widely used as a fever reducer and as a pain killer. Salicylic acid, whose name comes from Salix, the willow family of plants, was derived from willow bark extracts. In folk medicine, willow bark teas were used as headache remedies and other tonics. Your instructor will demonstrate how to use the melting point apparatus. Allow the temperature of the melting point apparatus to increase 1 C per minute starting from 120 C. Measure the melting point range of the aspirin product. The melting point range is the temperature when you first notice the aspirin crystals melting up until the temperature when no crystals remain
For example, if you have have just completed the synthesis of Aspirin from Salicylic Acid (mp = 160°C) and you find that your product melts at 131-134°C, when the literature melting point of aspirin is 136°C, you can be fairly certain that your product is indeed aspirin. Melting points are sensitive to the purity of the organic compound, since the crystal lattice of the compound is disrupted by the prescence of an impurity. Figure One (right) shows a hypothetic binary phase diagram depicting the compostion of a liquid mixture as a function of temperature.
The answer is to take a mixed melting point. Say for example that an unknown is either A or B, both of which have a mp of 110°. If one were to mix the unknown with first A and then B, and take a mp of each mixture, only one of them would maintain the mp of 110°C. Melting points are sensitive to the purity of the organic compound, since the crystal lattice of the compound is disrupted by the prescence of an impurity. Figure One (right) shows a hypothetic binary phase diagram depicting the compostion of a liquid mixture as a function of temperature.
CLASSIFICATION. GENERAL DESCRIPTION. Acetylsalicylic Acid, also known by trade name Aspirin, is an acetyl derivative of salicylic acid that is a white, crystalline, weakly acidic substance, with melting point 137°C. It is useful in the relief of headache and muscle and joint aches. 
The percentage yield of the synthesis was calculated to be 78.42%. The experimental melting point range of aspirin was determined to be 122 -132°C. Due to its wide range, and lower value than that of the theoretical melting point of 136°C, it was assessed that the prepared aspirin was impure. INTRODUCTION. Aspirin is a most widely sold over-the-counter drug. 
The theoretical melting point range of aspirin is 128-137°C. In this experiment, the obtained melting point range of of the crude aspirin is 106- 112°C and for the recrystallized aspirin, it is 114-118°C. The result of melting point determination means that the samples have impurities in it. The % recovery obtained is 59%. After performing the synthesis of aspirin from salicylic acid, the verification of the identity and purity of the product through melting point determination was also performed.
A percent yield over 100% could be due to water not completely dissolving from the product. 4. Our crude aspirin had a melting point range of 56.0-78.2 C. Our recrystalized aspirin product had a melting point range of 110.0-116.2. We observed a melting point range of 127.0-135.0 with commercial aspirin while the actual melting point is reported as 134-136 C from sigma-Aldrich online. 