View full size image. Sedna is a solar system body that is one of the most distant bodies found in our solar system. The object's closest approach to the sun is far greater than Pluto's distance away from Earth — at a spot where the sun is so tiny, according to NASA, that you could blot it out with a pin. More about Sedna's odd orbit. Sedna's orbit is extremely elongated, which is quite different from the circular planetary orbits that feature in our solar system. Brown told Space.com in 2011 that it was likely due to a close encounter.
The Oort Cloud is a theorized area far in the solar system that is supposed to contain billions of icy objects that, if they receive a gravitational push toward the sun and warm up, turn into comets as the sun's energy melts the ice. Sedna, however, was much bigger than a comet. More about Sedna's odd orbit. Sedna's orbit is extremely elongated, which is quite different from the circular planetary orbits that feature in our solar system. Brown told Space.com in 2011 that it was likely due to a close encounter.
90377 Sedna is a large minor planet in the outer reaches of the Solar System that was, as of 2015, at a distance of about 86 astronomical units (AU) from the Sun, about three times as far as Neptune. When Sedna was discovered it was 89.6 AU from the Sun approaching perihelion, and was the most distant object in the Solar System yet observed. Eris was later detected by the same survey at 97 AU.
Other notable features of Sedna include its size and reddish color; it is the second reddest object in the solar system, after Mars. At an estimated size of three-fourths the size of Pluto, it is likely the largest object found in the solar system since Pluto was discovered in 1930. 
For most of its orbit it is even farther from the Sun than at present, with its aphelion estimated at 937 AU (31 times Neptune's distance), making it one of the most distant known objects in the Solar System other than long-period comets. When Sedna was discovered it was 89.6 AU from the Sun approaching perihelion, and was the most distant object in the Solar System yet observed. Eris was later detected by the same survey at 97 AU.
This is likely the first detection of the long-hypothesized Oort cloud, a faraway repository of small icy bodies that supplies the comets that streak by Earth. Other notable features of Sedna include its size and reddish color. After Mars, it is the second reddest object in the solar system. 
Sedna (provisionally designated 2003 VB12) was discovered by Michael Brown (Caltech), Chad Trujillo (Gemini Observatory) and David Rabinowitz (Yale University) on November 14, 2003. When Sedna was discovered it was 89.6 AU from the Sun approaching perihelion, and was the most distant object in the Solar System yet observed. Eris was later detected by the same survey at 97 AU.
Sedna was discovered by a team led by Mike Brown, an astronomer at the California Institute of Technology. The discovery of Sedna and other objects similar to it was a large impetus behind demoting Pluto from planetary status in 2006. More about Sedna's odd orbit. Sedna's orbit is extremely elongated, which is quite different from the circular planetary orbits that feature in our solar system. Brown told Space.com in 2011 that it was likely due to a close encounter.
With the discovery of Sedna on November 14, 2003, the boundaries of the Solar System expanded by several billion kilometres (or miles if that's how you learned to count). Most striking about Sedna is its orbit and its size. It takes approximately 10,500 year for Sedna to orbit the Sun in a highly elliptical orbit. By comparison, Pluto, which for most of the 20th Century was the outermost planet, takes about 248 years to go around the Sun. We'll see on that one. Scientists now have a wealth of intriguing factoids to explore with Sedna. Among them: Sedna has a deep red colour, almost as deep as the red colour of Mars, and this colour is at present unexplained. And don't ask what Sedna is made of, except that water ice and methane ice have been ruled out. There's some juicy research grants to be had to figure out this one