Incubation periods vary, depending on the type of infection. The incubation period is the time between catching an infection and symptoms appearing. 
incubation period. the interval between effective exposure to a pathogenic infectious agent, leading to the invasion of the body and the establishment of the infection, and the appearance of the first clinical signs of the disease in question. incubation period the interval of time required for development; especially the time between invasion of the body by a pathogenic organism and appearance of the first symptoms of disease.
An incubation period refers to the amount of time between the moment a person or animal is exposed to a bacteria or virus and the appearance of the first symptoms. However, an incubation period can also refer to the length of time necessary for oviparous animals to develop while inside the egg. Hepatitis A can have an incubation period of up to 50 days, while for rabies, the incubation period can be as long as one year. Diseases with shorter incubation periods include the common cold, dengue hemorrhagic fever and cold sores or herpes, with an average of 10 hours.
Characteristic pancorporeal varicella lesions in unvaccinated person. The incubation period for varicella is 14 to 16 days after exposure to a varicella or a herpes zoster rash, with a range of 10 to 21 days. A mild prodrome of fever and malaise may occur 1 to 2 days before rash onset, particularly in adults. In children, the rash is often the first sign of disease
In a typical infectious disease, incubation period signifies the period taken by the multiplying organism to reach a threshold necessary to produce symptoms in the host. In some diseases, as depicted in this diagram, latent period is shorter than incubation period. Depending on the disease, the person may or may not be contagious during the incubation period. During clinical latency, an infection is subclinical. With respect to viral infections, in clinical latency the virus is actively replicating.
Medical Definition of INCUBATION PERIOD. : the period between the infection of an individual by a pathogen and the manifestation of the disease it causes. : the period between the infection of an individual by a pathogen and the manifestation of the illness or disease it causes. See incubation period defined for kids.
While latent or latency period may be synonymous, a distinction is sometimes made between incubation period, the period between infection and clinical onset of the disease, and latent period, the time from infection to infectiousness. Which is shorter depends on the disease. Depending on the disease, the person may or may not be contagious during the incubation period. During clinical latency, an infection is subclinical. With respect to viral infections, in clinical latency the virus is actively replicating.
Incubation period: In medicine, the time from the moment of exposure to an infectious agent until signs and symptoms of the disease appear. For example, the incubation period of chickenpox is 14-16 days. In biology, the incubation period is the time needed for any particular process of development to take place. For example, the length of time for turtle eggs to hatch is the incubation period.
Definition of INCUBATION PERIOD. : the period between the infection of an individual by a pathogen and the manifestation of the illness or disease it causes. See incubation period defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT