Apps Hungarian notation strives to encode the logical data type rather than the physical data type; in this way, it gives a hint as to what the variable's purpose is, or what it represents.n Systems Hungarian notation, the prefix encodes the actual data type of the variable. For example: 1  lAccountNum: variable is a long integer (l); 2  arru8NumberList: variable is an array of unsigned 8-bit integers (arru8);
The advantage of Hungarian notation is a reminder of the type of a variable. In a true and pure OO language (which C++ is not) Hungarian notation would have no purpose. Here, variables are typeless-they contain an object, the type of which depends on the object itself, not the variable. There are no primitive types. However, C++ is a hybrid language. [...
Most hungarian notation describes what the variable is (a pointer, or a pointer to a pointer, or the contents of a pointer etc. etc.), and what the thing that it points to is (string etc).I've found very little use for pointers in C#, especially when there's no unmanaged/pinvoke calls.
Hungarian Notation is a programming language variable naming convention. Since around 1999 when Charles Simonyi, who originated from Hungary, introduced the naming convention, some have tried to adapt it to various new programming languages.
Hungarian notation is an identifier naming convention in computer programming, in which the name of a variable or function indicates its type or intended use. There are two types of Hungarian notation: Systems Hungarian notation and Apps Hungarian notation. Hungarian notation was designed to be language-independent, and found its first major use with the BCPL programming language. Because BCPL has no data types other than the machine word, nothing in the language itself helps a programmer remember variables' types. In Systems Hungarian notation, the prefix encodes the actual data type of the variable. For example: 1  lAccountNum: variable is a long integer (l); 2  arru8NumberList: variable is an array of unsigned 8-bit integers (arru8);
CloudShare. vs. LabSlice. In programming, Hungarian notation is a set of conventions for naming data objects in which a programmer adds a meaningful prefix of one or several characters to the object's name to identify what type of object it is.
33. One of the things I struggle with is not using Hungarian notation. I don't want to have to go to the variable definition just to see what type it is. When a project gets extensive, it's nice to be able to look at a variable prefixed by 'bool' and know that it's looking for true/false instead of a 0/1 value.
This system became widely used inside Microsoft. It came to be known as Hungarian notation because the prefixes make the variable names look a bit as though they're written in some non-English language and because Simonyi is originally from Hungary.
Perhaps the most important publication that encouraged the use of Hungarian notation was the first book read by almost every Windows programmer: Charles Petzold's Programming Windows. It used a dialect of Hungarian notation throughout and briefly described the notation in its first chapter.t came to be known as Hungarian notation because the prefixes make the variable names look a bit as though they're written in some non-English language and because Simonyi is originally from Hungary.