On the Page Layout tab, in the Page Setup group, click Breaks. Under Section Breaks, click Next Page. On the page that follows the section break, double-click in the header area or the footer area (near the top of the page or near the bottom of the page). This opens the Design tab under Header & Footer Tools. On the Design tab, in the Navigation group, click Link to Previous to turn it off. 
In the Header & Footer group, click Page Number, and then click Format Page Numbers. In the Start at box, type 0. If you want the first page to use a header or footer that does not include a page number, insert the header or footer that you want while the cursor is in the First Page Header or First Page Footer area. Change the page-number format. Double-click in the header or footer area. Under Header & Footer Tools, on the Design tab, in the Header & Footer group, click Page Number, and then click Format Page Numbers. In the Number format list, click a numbering style.
Insert page numbers in one section of a Word 2007 document. Place the cursor where you’d like to insert a new section. Click on the “Insert” tab, located toward the top of the ribbon. This will open a new set of buttons and options. The ribbon is the button layout just above the document. Click the “Break” button. Place your cursor in the section where you’d like to add page numbers. Open the page numbers dialogue box by clicking on the “Insert” drop-down menu and selecting “Page numbers.”. Click on “Format” to open another formatting dialogue box. Click on the bubble next to “Start at” and type “1” in the text box.
Add header or footer content to a preformatted page number design. On the Insert tab, in the Header & Footer group, click Page Number. Click Top of Page, Bottom of Page, or Page Margins, depending on where you want page numbers to appear in your document. Choose a page number design from the gallery of designs. Change the page-number format. Double-click in the header or footer area. Under Header & Footer Tools, on the Design tab, in the Header & Footer group, click Page Number, and then click Format Page Numbers. In the Number format list, click a numbering style.
1 Click in the header or footer where you want the page number. 2  On the Header and Footer toolbar, click Insert Page Number. 3  On the Header and Footer toolbar, click Format Page Number. 4  In the Number format box, click the format that you want for the numbers in this section. 1 On the View menu, click Header and Footer. 2  Click in the header or footer where you want the page number. 3  On the Header and Footer toolbar, click Insert Page Number. 4  On the Header and Footer toolbar, click Format Page Number. 5
Most page numbers appear in a document's header or footer section (although that's not strictly necessary). To add a header, choose Header And Footer from the View menu. In Word 2007 and 2010, double-click above the top margin or click the Insert tab | Header (in the Header & Footer group) | Blank. 1: Determine page numbering needs for each section. Before you can number anything, you have to discern what each section comprises. The results will be specific to each document. For instance, a book can have several elements, or sections: a title page, a table of contents, numerous chapters, and so on.
1 Click in the first section. 2  On the View menu, click Header and Footer. 3  Click in the header or footer where you want the page number. 4  On the Header and Footer toolbar, click Insert Page Number. 5  On the Header and Footer toolbar, click Format Page Number. 1 On the View menu, click Header and Footer. 2  Click in the header or footer where you want the page number. 3  On the Header and Footer toolbar, click Insert Page Number. 4  On the Header and Footer toolbar, click Format Page Number. 5  In the Number format box, click the format that you want for the numbers in this section
Position the cursor where you want the number to appear. (Often, this is the header or footer. To position the cursor in one of these locations, choose Header and Footer on the View menu or double-click the location in Page Layout view.). Press Ctrl+F9 to insert a pair of field braces: { } . (Don't just type them. To change the start at value, proceed as follows: 1  Position the cursor in the section of the document whose start at value you want to change. 2  Go into the Header or Footer. 3  On the Header/Footer toolbar, click the Format Page Numbers button: 4  Click Start At and enter the desired value. 5  Click OK to close the dialog.
Create a header or footer that contains only the page number. On the Insert tab, in the Header & Footer group, click Page Number. Click Top of Page or Bottom of Page, depending on where you want page numbers to appear in your document. Choose a page number design from the gallery of designs. Change the page-number format. Double-click in the header or footer area. Under Header & Footer Tools, on the Design tab, in the Header & Footer group, click Page Number, and then click Format Page Numbers. In the Number format list, click a numbering style.