Facebook Twitter Google+ Comments Mail. Share this on your social network: New Delhi, June 10: As the salary of the Indian prime minister is Rs 1.6 lakh per month (Rs 19.2 lakh annually), PM Narendra Modi has been listed at number 12 in the list of 15 highest paid world political leaders. 
The 31-year-old cricketer, the only Indian player in the top 50 of that list-fellow cricketer Sachin Tendulkar is ranked 51st-improved his ranking by 15 positions this year, moving up from 31st position in 2012. Dhoni makes $28 million (Rs 114 crore) from endorsements and the rest from salary and winnings. Nearly half of Dhoni's twenty-five endorsements pay more than $1 million a year, including a three-year deal with Vijay Mallya's United Breweries Group worth more than $5 million over three years, Forbes said.
Icon players do not have a specific contract but they get 15% more pay than the highest paid crickets in that franchise. For CSK, Ravindra Jadeja is the highest paid man with a $2 million contract. Had Dhoni been an icon player, he would have received 15% more than $2 million. I’m very sure, when IPL 6 ends, and when all contracts are finished, Dhoni will be made an icon player and will receive much, much more than his current fixed contract ($1.5 million). According to Forbes, Dhoni is the one and only cricketer ever in the history to reach the $10 million a year mark which is a good $5426 for every run that he scored during the year.
MS Dhoni has been in the BCCI contract in Category A, which pays him aroumd rupees 1 crore (indian Ruppes) or 10 Million Ruppes every month. Plus he takes home the captains bonuses as well and forbes calculated his annual salary + winning + bonuses ot $4 Million a year. Also known as “Baap of endorsements in India” Mahinder Singh Dhoni make more money than Novak Djokovic and Sebastian Vettel, the world Champions in their respective sports.
Dhoni last 1 year enodrsement earnings has been more than $24 million which goes to show how important is cricket in India and how much following they have over their. Highly successfull Indian Premier League has a big impact on Indian Cricket and Dhoni’s career. Also known as “Baap of endorsements in India” Mahinder Singh Dhoni make more money than Novak Djokovic and Sebastian Vettel, the world Champions in their respective sports.
The Indian board awarded contracts to 37 of India's best players, with nine getting Grade A (Rs 1 crore, around $186,000 per annum) , eight in Grade B (Rs 50 lakh, around $93,000 per annum) and 20 Grade C contracts (Rs 25 lakh, around $46,500 per annum). Grade A: Retainership Fees Rs 1 crore per annum. Players in Grade A: Sachin Tendulkar, MS Dhoni, Zaheer Khan, Virender Sehwag, Gautam Gambhir, Suresh Raina, Yuvraj Singh, Virat Kohli, R Ashwin. Grade B: Retainership Fees Rs 50 Lakh per annum. Interesting Facts: 1  Rahul Dravid and VVS Laxman retired while Ishant Sharma and Harbhajan Singh were demoted from Group A. 2  Praveen Kumar and Ravindra Jadeja were demoted to Group C from Group B last year. 3  Irfan Pathan who didn't got a contract from BCCI last year made a strong comeback and got a place in Group B.
NEW DELHI: Indian cricket team captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni earned $31.4 million (around Rs 179.18 crore) in 2012 making him the 16th highest-paid athlete in the world on a Forbes list that is led by golfer Tiger Woods, tennis ace Roger Federer and NBA star Kobe Bryant. Nearly half of Dhoni's twenty-five endorsements pay more than $1 million a year, including a three-year deal with Vijay Mallya's United Breweries Group worth more than $5 million over three years, Forbes said.
The players in the playing eleven of the team also get an additional fee: 1  Test Match: Rs 7 Lakh per match. 2  One-Day Internationals: Rs 4 Lakh per match. 3  Twenty20 Internationals: Rs 2 Lakh per match. Interesting Facts: 1  Rahul Dravid and VVS Laxman retired while Ishant Sharma and Harbhajan Singh were demoted from Group A. 2  Praveen Kumar and Ravindra Jadeja were demoted to Group C from Group B last year. 3  Irfan Pathan who didn't got a contract from BCCI last year made a strong comeback and got a place in Group B.
Tendulkar is beginning to lose corporate partners in the twilight of his storied career-Canon chose not to renew when its deal expired last year-but his $1.2 million-per-year contract with Coca-Cola is worth more than most IPL players' entire salaries, Forbes said. Nearly half of Dhoni's twenty-five endorsements pay more than $1 million a year, including a three-year deal with Vijay Mallya's United Breweries Group worth more than $5 million over three year
I don't know much about Indian cricketer salaries but I might add the Australian Figures for comparison. The IPL is worth between $400,000 to $2M for an Indian player, depending on how much they get at auction. In Australia, total income excluding IPL salaries was about $2m for international players, of which $200,000 to $500,000 was from Cricket Australia contracts. Each state paid the squad about $20,000 to $75,000 each