Here are some of the effective ways to get rid of fruit flies naturally. The first step you should take is avoid things which invite them to your home for example do not keep ripen food items in your kitchen. Avoid keeping dustbin in your kitchen. Camphor tablets are also very known home remedy to get rid of fruit flies. Smoke produced from the burning camphor is very much effective to make them fly away. Take 2 to 4 camphor tablets put it in metal bowl and burn it with help of match stick and keep it in the are you find the fruit flies in large number.
1 Apple cider vinegar. 2  Liquid dish soap. 3  Water. 4  Pour about 1/2 cup of apple cider vinegar and 1 Tbsp of liquid dish soap in a container or jar. 5  Mix it up with a spoon. 6  Fill the jar with tap water until the bubbles reach the top. 7  Place the jar where the fruit flies are causing trouble. How to get rid of those nasty pests. 1  Apple cider vinegar. 2  Liquid dish soap. 3  Water. 4  Pour about 1/2 cup of apple cider vinegar and 1 Tbsp of liquid dish soap in a container or jar. 5  Fill the jar with tap water until the bubbles reach the top. 6
1 Pour about 1/2 cup of apple cider vinegar and 1 Tbsp of liquid dish soap in a container or jar. 2  Mix it up with a spoon. 3  Fill the jar with tap water until the bubbles reach the top. 4  Place the jar where the fruit flies are causing trouble. How to get rid of those nasty pests. 1  Apple cider vinegar. 2  Liquid dish soap. 3  Water. 4  Pour about 1/2 cup of apple cider vinegar and 1 Tbsp of liquid dish soap in a container or jar. 5  Fill the jar with tap water until the bubbles reach the top. 6
Method 1 of 3: Getting Rid of Flies with Home Remedies. 1. Set a trap with dish soap. Pour 1 inch (2.54 cm) of liquid dish soap into a jar and add 1 inch (2.54 cm) of water. The flies will be attracted to the soap and drown in the water. 1  Use fruit flavored dish soap for best results. 2  An apple scented soap or lemon soap may provide better results, for example. 3  Add a drop or two of apple cider vinegar if you do not seem to be catching many flies. 4  The vinegar will attract flies to the jar. 2. Mix a natural fly repellent in a spray bottle. Flies will stay away from the scent of cayenne pepper. Mix a little in a spray bottle with water. 1  Spray the cayenne mixture in doorways, window sills and other cracks and corners where flies might try to come in.
One of the old techniques, how to get rid of fruit flies naturally. You can easily find it from the lady who sells vegetables or the one who sells plants. It is very known herb that keeps away the fruit flies naturally. Keep it in a bottle filled with water and make sure that stem of the herb are dipped in it. Camphor tablets are also very known home remedy to get rid of fruit flies. Smoke produced from the burning camphor is very much effective to make them fly away. Take 2 to 4 camphor tablets put it in metal bowl and burn it with help of match stick and keep it in the are you find the fruit flies in large number.
The dish soap breaks the surface tension of the vinegar, the fruit flies fall in and are unable to climb out of the liquid. Read the step-by-step breakdown below and watch the 2 min video to see the vinegar fly trap in action. 1. Pour several tablespoons of apple cider vinegar into a small bowl or jar. 2. Add a couple drops of dish soap. Swirl around slightly to mix. 3. Cover with plastic wrap and poke a few small holes just large enough to allow the flies to crawl through. 4. Place in the fly trap area where you've seen the fruit flies.
You can get rid of houseflies cheaply and entirely naturally, without risk to pets, children, and your food. If you want to rid your home of houseflies, start by keeping your house clean. Use orange, clove, lemon, or basil oil in your cleaning, as these oils repel flies. 
Found This Helpful. House flies -- all buzzing and germs -- are a real pain. Unfortunately, during warm weather, it can be hard to keep them out of your house. They crawl in through open windows, holes in screens and any other space they can get through. Get rid of house flies without resorting to sticky tape or chemicals. Stay away from less natural treatments to avoid harming children and house pets. Once you’re rid of the flies, your house will feel more like home again
You can get rid of flies naturally in the home or barn with a simple, homemade trap. 