Deep-sea mountain ranges had caught his attention. Alfred Wegener's fully developed theory of continental drift attempted to point out evidences that the continents were once joined into a single continent he called Pangaea. Wegener's theory hypothesized that the continents were able to push through the rock of the seafloor to their present positions. 6 people found this useful. 1  The Land Bridge Theory and Continental Drift Land bridge theory began as an effort to counter Alfred Wegener's theory of continental drift (which was ultimately proven correct anyway), yet survived in a modified form as….
Evidence. Alfred Wegener collected diverse pieces of evidence to support his theory, including geological “fit” and fossil evidence. It is important to know that the following specific fossil evidence was not brought up by Wegener to support his theory. 
Alfred Wegener (1880 - 1930). Alfred Wegener proposed the theory of continental drift at the beginning of the 20th century. His idea was that the Earth's continents were once joined together, but gradually moved apart over millions of years. Wegener’s evidence for continental drift was that: 1  the same types of fossilised animals and plants are found in South America and Africa. 2  the shape of the east coast of South America fits the west coast of Africa, like pieces in a jigsaw puzzle.
Wegener also used fossils to support his argument for continental drift. A fossil is any trace of an ancient organism that has been preserved in rock. For example, Glossopteris (glaw sahp tuh ris) , was a fernlike plant that lived 250 million years ago. Wegener gathered evidence from different scientific fields to support his ideas about continental drift. He studied land features, fossils, and evidence of climate change. In 1915, Wegener published his evidence for continental drift in a book called The Origin of Continents and Oceans.
The Richard Stockton College of New Jersey. Early development of plate tectonics: In the 1900's, a German meteorologist by the name of Alfred Wegener was the first to present an argument supporting continental drift. He proposed that the continents were not stationary, but actually moving or drifting away from one another. Later evidence was given in support of Wegener's ideas. One source of evidence was that of paleomagnetism. When hot magma rises to the earth's surface and cools, the minerals themselves (especially magnetite) become magnetized in alignment with the Earth's magnetic field.
The reaction to Alfred Wegener's Continental Drift Theory demonstrates that new ideas threaten the establishment, regardless of the century. Alfred Wegener was the scientist who proposed the Continental Drift Theory in the early twentieth century. Simply put, his hypothesis proposed that the continents had once been joined, and over time had drifted apart. Wegener did not even present Continental Drift as a proven theory. He knew he would need more support to convince others. His immediate goal was to have the concept openly discussed. These modest goals did not spare him.
1 The Land Bridge Theory and Continental Drift Land bridge theory began as an effort to counter Alfred Wegener's theory of continental drift (which was ultimately proven correct anyway), yet survived in a modified form as…. 2  The Periodic Table of Elements Life is sustained by a number of chemical elements. 6 people found this useful. 1  The Land Bridge Theory and Continental Drift Land bridge theory began as an effort to counter Alfred Wegener's theory of continental drift (which was ultimately proven correct anyway), yet survived in a modified form as….
Click Here to return to the search form. Alfred Wegener brought together several lines of evidence to support his theory of continental drift. One is quite simple -- that the continents look like they could fit together, much like puzzle pieces that have drifted apart. 