The Carpathian Mountains cover over a third of the coutry’s territory and are forming a semi-circle around Transylvania, which one of Romania’s nine historical provinces. Romanian Carpathian Mountainsare divided into three groups: Eastern Carpathians, Southern Carpathians and Western Carpathians. 1 The Carpathian Mountains are home to one of the largest undisturbed forests in Europe. 2  60% of European brown bear population lives in the Carpathian Mountains and 400 unique species of mammals, including the Carpathian chamois.
The Western Carpathian Mountains are also called the Mountains of the Sunset (Muntii Apuseni).The highest peaks are in the Southern Carpathians – Moldoveanu (2544 m/8,346 feet) and Negoiu (2535 m/8,316 feet). 1 The Carpathian Mountains are home to one of the largest undisturbed forests in Europe. 2  60% of European brown bear population lives in the Carpathian Mountains and 400 unique species of mammals, including the Carpathian chamois.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Mount Hoverla (Cyrillic: говерла, Hoverla; Hungarian: Hovar; Hóvár: Romanian; Hovarla, Hovârla: Goverla) polish 2,061 at (6,762 metres), 6762 ft is the highest Mountain in ukraine and part Of The. carpathian mountains The slopes are covered with beech and spruce forests, above which there is a belt of sub-alpine meadows called polonyna in Ukrainian. At the eastern slope there is the main spring of the Prut River. The name is of Old Hungarian origin and means 'snow mountain'. Hoverla is composed of sandstone, a sedimentary rock type.
The Carpathian Mountains or Carpathians are a range of mountains forming an arc roughly 1,500 km (932 mi) long across Central Europe, making them the second-longest mountain range in Europe (after the Scandinavian Mountains, 1,700 km (1,056 mi)). In late Roman documents, the Eastern Carpathian Mountains were referred to as Montes Sarmatici (meaning Sarmatian Mountains). The Western Carpathians were called Carpates, a name that is first recorded in Ptolemy 's Geographia (2nd century AD).
As for mountains, the medium-sized Carpathian's extend through the center of the country in a wide arc, and they are the source of several rivers. The Transylvanian Alps, a range of the Carpathian's, divide central and southern Romania. The country's highest point, Mt. Moldoveanu, is located there. It stands at 2,544 m (8,346 ft). Beyond the Carpathian foothills, the land slopes down into rolling hills and plain
The highest range within the Carpathians is the Tatras, on the border of Slovakia and Poland, where the highest peaks exceed 2,600 m (8,530 ft). In late Roman documents, the Eastern Carpathian Mountains were referred to as Montes Sarmatici (meaning Sarmatian Mountains). The Western Carpathians were called Carpates, a name that is first recorded in Ptolemy 's Geographia (2nd century AD).
Carpathian Mountains – Map & Details. The Carpathians are a mountain system located in eastern Europe, and the source of the Dniester, Tisza and Vistula Rivers. They form the natural border between Slovakia and southern Poland, and then extend southward through Ukraine and into Romania. 
The date of the first ascent is unknown. In late 19th century the mountain became a notable tourist attraction, especially among tourists from nearby cities of Galicia. In 1880 the first tourist route between the peak of Hoverla and Krasny Luh was marked by Leopold Wajgel of the Galician Tatra Society. The slopes are covered with beech and spruce forests, above which there is a belt of sub-alpine meadows called polonyna in Ukrainian. At the eastern slope there is the main spring of the Prut River. The name is of Old Hungarian origin and means 'snow mountain'. Hoverla is composed of sandstone, a sedimentary rock type.
The total length of the Carpathians is over 1,500 km (932 mi) and the mountain chain's width varies between 12 and 500 km (7 and 311 mi). The highest altitudes of the Carpathians occur where they are widest. The system attains its greatest breadth in the Transylvanian plateau and in the south of the Tatra group – the highest range, in which Gerlachovský štit štít In slovakia is the highest peak 2,655 2655 (8,711 8711) ft above sea. level In late Roman documents, the Eastern Carpathian Mountains were referred to as Montes Sarmatici (meaning Sarmatian Mountains). The Western Carpathians were called Carpates, a name that is first recorded in Ptolemy 's Geographia (2nd century AD).