Tower Bridge. The Tower Bridge is located in above the River Thames, London. On June 30th, 1894, the Tower bridge was opened by King Edward VII. The design of the Tower Bridge was done by Horace Jones and Wolfe Barry, the bridge was constructed in the year 1894. The Tower Bridge contains two massive towers which are linked together. The bridge stands at a height of 60 meters and the height of each tower is about 43 meters. The middle part of the bridge can be lifted up when huge ships pass through that way. In the past, the bridge was lifted nearly 50 times per day.
Tower Bridge (built 1886–1894) is a combined bascule and suspension bridge in London. The bridge crosses the River Thames close to the Tower of London and has become an iconic symbol of London. Tower Bridge is one of five London bridges now owned and maintained by the Bridge House Estates, a charitable trust overseen by the City of London Corporation. The nearest London Underground tube stations are Tower Hill on the Circle and District lines, London Bridge and Bermondsey, and the nearest Docklands Light Railway station is Tower Gateway.
Initially, the Tower Bridge was constructed as a level crossing over the River Thames, as the population of London grew, new bridges were constructed. But among all the bridges in London, Tower Bridge is the only one of its kinds. The Tower Bridge contains two massive towers which are linked together. The bridge stands at a height of 60 meters and the height of each tower is about 43 meters. The middle part of the bridge can be lifted up when huge ships pass through that way. In the past, the bridge was lifted nearly 50 times per day.
London Bridge is a bridge in Lake Havasu City, Arizona, United States. It is a relocated 1831 bridge that formerly spanned the River Thames in London, England, until it was dismantled in 1967. The Arizona bridge is a reinforced concrete structure clad in the original masonry of the 1830s bridge, which was bought by Robert P. McCulloch from the City of London. 
The Tower of London is located near the River Thames in Central London, England. The tower was built by William the conqueror (Emperor of England) in the year 1078. The complex contains some buildings with two circles of walls and a large water body. 
Tower Bridge was opened in 1894 and is the only bridge across the river Thames which can be raised to allow tall ships to pass underneath. It is built of 11000 tons of steel a … nd faced with Cornish Granite and Portland Stone. London Bridge is an ordinary modern (1973) bridge which spans the river Thames. Its predecessor, built in 1820, is now located at Lake Havasu in Arizona. Tower … Bridge, completed in 1894, also spans the river Thames and is the only bridge across the Thames which can be raised to allow large ships to pass underneath it, although that doesn't happen very often now
Tower Bridge is located in London and crosses the river Thames from Tower Hamlets on the north bank to Southwark on the south bank. It lies adjacent to the Tower of London and … is the only bridge in London that can open to allow boats to pass underneath it. London Bridge is an ordinary modern (1973) bridge which spans the river Thames. Its predecessor, built in 1820, is now located at Lake Havasu in Arizona. Tower … Bridge, completed in 1894, also spans the river Thames and is the only bridge across the Thames which can be raised to allow large ships to pass underneath it, although that doesn't happen very often now
Arguably the world's most famous bridge, Tower Bridge is an iconic London landmark. Located next to the Tower of London, the bridge was opened in 1894. Tower Bridge continues to be a busy thoroughfare for road traffic and opens to allow tall shipping to pass through. Today, visitors can access the bridge's walkways and enjoy spectacular river views.
London Bridge is an ordinary modern (1973) bridge which spans the river Thames. Its predecessor, built in 1820, is now located at Lake Havasu in Arizona. Tower … Bridge, completed in 1894, also spans the river Thames and is the only bridge across the Thames which can be raised to allow large ships to pass underneath it, although that doesn't happen very often now. 