pipal tree-fig tree of India noted for great size and longevity; lacks the prop roots of the banyan; regarded as sacred by Buddhists. bo tree, Ficus religiosa, peepul, pipal, pipul, sacred fig. 
Bodhi tree, Bo tree, Sacred Fig tree, or Pipal tree (also spelled peepal or peepul) is regarded as equally sacred by one and all. If you wish to know more about this tree, then you're on the right page. 1 Pipal is an excellent remedy for the neck disease scrofula, that causes swollen lymphatic glands. 2  A paste prepared by mashing its roots under water is applied on the affected region of the neck. 3  Pipal leaves have been used against bruises and wounds for years. 4  Finely ground leaves mixed with jaggery are made into pills.
A fig tree (Ficus religiosa) native to India, having gray bark and heart-shaped leaves with a long tip. It is revered by Buddhists as the species of tree under which the Buddha attained enlightenment. Also called bo tree, bodhi tree. 
Called ashvattha in Sanskrit, the peepal (Ficus religious) is a very large tree. Its bark is light grey, smooth and peels in patches. Its heart-shaped leaves have long, tapering tips. The slightest breeze makes them rustle. In the. the fruit of the peepal is used as an example to explain the difference between the body and the soul: the body is like the fruit which, being outside, feels and enjoys things, while the soul is like the seed, which is inside and therefore witnesses things.
Pipal may refer to: 1  Ficus religiosa (sacred fig), a species of banyan fig native to India, Bangladesh, Nepal, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, southwest China and Indochina. 2  Pipal, Nepal, a village development committee in Rukum District in the Rapti Zone of western Nepal. 3  Pipal (surname) , a surname of Czech origin. 1 Ficus religiosa (sacred fig), a species of banyan fig native to India, Bangladesh, Nepal, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, southwest China and Indochina. 2  Pipal, Nepal, a village development committee in Rukum District in the Rapti Zone of western Nepal.
• PIPAL (noun). The noun PIPAL has 1 sense: 1. fig tree of India noted for great size and longevity; lacks the prop roots of the banyan; regarded as sacred by Buddhists. Familiarity information: PIPAL used as a noun is very rare. F
• PIPAL TREE (noun). The noun PIPAL TREE has 1 sense: 1. fig tree of India noted for great size and longevity; lacks the prop roots of the banyan; regarded as sacred by Buddhists. Familiarity information: PIPAL TREE used as a noun is very rare.
Ficus religiosa or sacred fig is a species of fig native to Nepal, India, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, south-west China and Indochina. It belongs to the Moraceae, the fig or mulberry family. It is also known as the bodhi tree, pippala tree, peepal tree or ashwattha tree (in India and Nepal). Description [edit]. Ficus religiosa is a large dry season-deciduous or semi-evergreen tree up to 30 metres (98 ft) tall and with a trunk diameter of up to 3 metres (9.8 ft). The leaves are cordate in shape with a distinctive extended drip tip; they are 10–17 cm long and 8–12 cm broad, with a 6–10 cm petiole