Cetylated fatty acids are a group of naturally occurring fats. They include cetyl myristoleate, cetyl myristate, cetyl palmitoleate, cetyl laureate, cetyl palmitate, and cetyl oleate. Cetyl myristoleate receives the most attention. Many products that contain cetyl myristoleate also contain a mixture of these other cetylated fatty acids. There is an interest in cetyl myristoleate for osteoarthritis because it is a substance found in certain mice that do not develop arthritis, even when researchers try to cause arthritis in the laboratory.
Cetyl myristoleate is a unique esterified fatty acid with unique properties that have been shown to support joint health, function and mobility. Dr. Harry Diehl discovered its unique joint health properties while working at the National Institute of Health. 
Print. ...treatment with cetyl myristoleate may relieve pain, improve mobility and increase range of motion.. Cetyl myristoleate (CM) is an ester (a compound produced by the reaction between an acid and an alcohol) of a fatty acid (myristoleic acid). It is commonly found in fish oils, dairy products, butter, and animal fat. 
Cetyl myristoleate is a chemical compound which is a type of fatty acid ester or, more specifically, a cetylated fatty acid (CFA). It is the cetyl ester of myristoleic acid. Although it is used as a dietary supplement, there is little clinical evidence to support a benefit for any medical condition. 
Uses. Cetyl myristoleate (CMO) is the common name for cis-9-cetyl myristoleate. CMO was discovered in 1972 by Harry W. Diehl, Ph.D., a researcher at the National Institutes of Health. At the time, Dr. Diehl was responsible for testing anti-inflammatory drugs on lab animals. Cetyl Myristoleate. NOTICE: This health information was not created by the University of Michigan Health System (UMHS) and may not necessarily reflect specific UMHS practices. For medical advice relating to your personal condition, please consult your doctor.
Chemistry. Cetyl myristoleate, an oil, is the hexadecyl ester of the unsaturated fatty acid cis-9-tetradecenoic acid. The common name for the acid is myristoleic acid. Myristoleic acid is found commonly in fish oils, whale oils, dairy butter, and kombo butter. 
Cetyl Myristoleate, is an all natural compound, useful for arthritis and joint pain treatment. CM8 is excellent for treating and even preventing joint pain, arthritis, osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and even gout and fibromyalgia. Cetyl Myristoleate Complex is the final result of years of clinical research, exploration of various raw materials and unique isolation techniques, and countless hours of investigation into optimum delivery systems. It is traditionally supplies in a fine powder for capsuling and tableting.
CM8® is short for Cetyl Myristoleate. Cetyl Myristoleate is an all-natural compound useful for arthritis and joint pain relief. Cetyl Myristoleate is clinically shown to treat and even prevent joint pain, arthritis, osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis (RA), gout and fibromyalgia. The name Cetyl Myristoleate describes the chemical makeup of CM8®. It is the cetyl ester of myristoleic acid. The Cetyl Myristoleate Complex is the final result of years of clinical research, exploration and testing of various raw materials, unique isolation techniques, and countless hours of investigating optimum delivery systems. It is traditionally concentrated into a fine powder for capsuling or tableting.
Cetyl Myristoleate is an ester of fatty acid. Fatty acids are the individual components of oils in the same way that amino acids are the building blocks of proteins. Polyunsaturated fatty acids, such as linotenic acid and linolelic acid, are crucial to life and are called essential fatty acids (EFAs). Cetyl myristoleate, an oil, is the hexadecyl ester of the unsaturated fatty acid cis-9-tetradecenoic acid. The common name for the acid is myristoleic acid.