The meaning of last names can provide insight into family history and origins. Last names can indicate what your ancestors did for a living, where they came from, and what their customs and cultures were. HOW TO GET STARTED: To find the meaning of your last name, use our Search by Last Name box to the left, OR Browse by Last Name (alphabetical) below.
Genealogy research into surnames and the origin of a last name has shown that a coat of arms / crest {or badges in some cases} can be found for more than ninety percent of family names submitted. Many times the coloring and symbols on a family Coat of Arms have meaning other than simply being there for design purposes. With access to the surname origin of over 1,000,000 last names, and an average of over 130,000 visitors a month you can imagine the demand for our different family tree services.
Phillips Surname [Welsh Origin] This surname was derived from the personal name Philip. This name, which was usually Latinized as Philippus, was originally derived from the Greek Philippos. Phillips Surname [Irish Origin] The Phillips surname in Ireland derives from several sources, but there was certainly a native Gaelic name which evolved into such names as MacPhilbin and MacPhillips. Spelling variations of this family name include: MacPhilbin, McPhilbin, Philben, Phillips and other
The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Roger Marchand, which was dated 1202, in the Pipe Rolls of Berkshire, during the reign of King John, known as Lackland, 1199 - 1216. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation. In England this was known as Poll Tax. Job-descriptive surnames originally denoted the actual occupation of the namebearer, and later became hereditary. The surname was first recorded at the beginning of the 13th Century (see below), and one Roger Marchaunt and a Herueus Merchant were listed as witnesses in the 1219 Assize Court Rolls of Yorkshire.
The Merchant Family Crest was acquired from the Houseofnames.com archives. The Merchant Family Crest was drawn according to heraldic standards based on published blazons. We generally include the oldest published family crest once associated with each surname. This page was last modified on 19 August 2015 at 14:14. 
This name, with variant spellings Marchent, Marchand, Marquand, Merchant and Le Marchant, derives from the Old French marcheant (Middle English marchand), meaning a merchant or trader, and was originally given as an occupational name to a buyer or seller of goods. Job-descriptive surnames originally denoted the actual occupation of the namebearer, and later became hereditary. The surname was first recorded at the beginning of the 13th Century (see below), and one Roger Marchaunt and a Herueus Merchant were listed as witnesses in the 1219 Assize Court Rolls of Yorkshire.
Phillips Surname This surname is of early medieval English origin, and is one of the many surnames generated by the male given name Philip, itself coming from the Greek Philippos, a compound of philein, to love, and hippos, horse; hence, lover of horses. Phillips Surname [Irish Origin] The Phillips surname in Ireland derives from several sources, but there was certainly a native Gaelic name which evolved into such names as MacPhilbin and MacPhillips. Spelling variations of this family name include: MacPhilbin, McPhilbin, Philben, Phillips and other
For other uses, see Henderson. Henderson is a common Scottish surname. The name is derived from patronymic form of the name Hendry, which is a Scottish form of Henry. Some Hendersons also derive their name from Henryson. The surname Henderson is borne by numerous unrelated families in Scotland. The Hendersons of Glencoe derive their surname from the Gaelic MacEanruig. The surname was unknown in England prior to the 17th century and is first mentioned in a marriage document between one of the Borders Hendersons and the daughter of a Carlisle merchant at Hexham.
Merchant is a family name shared by the following people: 1  Anthony Merchant (born 1944), Canadian lawyer and politician. 2  Ali Merchant, actor. 3  Carolyn Merchant (born c. 1936), U:S: ecofeminist philosopher and historian of science. 4  George Merchant (1926–2015), Scottish footballer (Dundee FC, Falkirk FC). 1 George Merchant (1926–2015), Scottish footballer (Dundee FC, Falkirk FC). 2  Hoshang Merchant (born 1947), Indian poet. 3  Ismail Merchant (1936–2005), Indian-born film producer who changed his surname from Rehman.