Ambient temperature simply means the temperature of the surroundings and will be the same as room temperature indoors...... ....Harshal P. Pawar. Edit. Share to: 1  Definition of Ambient Lighting and Its Various Uses Ambient lighting is a term that is being used increasingly often these days. Ambient refers to the temperature of the surrounding air, i.e not at parking lot level etc. Ambient means the temperature not being effected by mechanical means, like AC … or any heat source.
And, of course, the ambient temperature of a room is room temperature. Yet small temperature differences have large effects on many natural processes. Therefore scientists who do observe a distinction between the two specifications may be sticklers about which one to apply. 
Ambient-adjective 1. of the surrounding area or environment: The tape recorder picked up too many ambient noises. The temperature in the display case was 20° lower than the ambient temperature. 2. completely surrounding; encompassing: the ambient air. In the sentence: When there is a strong ambient light soource, the performance of the infrared REMOTE SENOR may be degraded, causing unreliable operation.
By Rachelle Oblack. Definition: The ambient temperature is a non-specific phrase used to describe the outside temperature. When taking the temperature with a thermometer, you are getting a general idea of the temperature of the surrounding air without taking into account the daily maximum and minimum temperature. Ambient temperature also does not take into account the humidity or wind in the air.
Ambient music is a genre of music that puts an emphasis on tone and atmosphere over traditional musical structure or rhythm. Ambient music is said to evoke an atmospheric, visual or unobtrusive quality. 
In computing, ambient intelligence (AmI) refers to electronic environments that are sensitive and responsive to the presence of people. Ambient intelligence is a vision on the future of consumer electronics, telecommunications and computing that was originally developed in the late 1990s for the time frame 2010–2020. Ambient intelligence is closely related to the long term vision of an intelligent service system in which technologies are able to automate a platform embedding the required devices for powering context aware, personalized, adaptive and anticipatory services.
Definition of AMBIENT. 1. : an encompassing atmosphere: environment. 2. : music intended to serve as an unobtrusive accompaniment to other activities (as in a public place) and characterized especially by quiet and repetitive instrumental melodies. Full Definition of AMBIENT. : existing or present on all sides: encompassing. See ambient defined for English-language learners. See ambient defined for kids.
Ambient temperature is a term which refers to the temperature in a room, or the temperature which surrounds an object under discussion. Ambient refers to the temperature of the surrounding air, i.e not at parking lot level etc. Ambient means the temperature not being effected by mechanical means, like AC … or any heat source.
The definition of ambient temperature is the temperature of the air  in the surrounding environment. This term is often used in  association with the air surrounding a power … supply or cooling  system. 1 person found this useful. Ambient refers to the temperature of the surrounding air, i.e not at parking lot level etc. Ambient means the temperature not being effected by mechanical means, like AC … or any heat source.
The definition of ambient temperature is the temperature of the air  in the surrounding environment. This term is often used in  association with the air surrounding a power … supply or cooling  system. Answered. In Relationships. 