Some emery is a mix of corundum and other substances, and the mix is less abrasive, with an average Mohs hardness of 8.0. In addition to its hardness, corundum is unusual for its density of 4.02 g/cm 3, which is very high for a transparent mineral composed of the low-atomic mass elements aluminium and oxygen. Corundum is a crystalline form of aluminium oxide (Al 2O 3) typically containing traces of iron, titanium, vanadium and chromium.
Emery stone is a granular metamorphic or igneous rock that is rich in corundum. It is a mixture of oxide minerals, typically corundum, magnetite, spinel and/or hematite. It is the most common form of natural corundum that has been used to manufacture abrasives. The extreme hardness makes corundum an excellent abrasive, and when that hardness is found in beautiful crystals, you have the perfect material for cutting gemstones. Natural and synthetic corundum are used in a wide variety of industrial applications because of their toughness, hardness, and chemical stability.
Corundum occurs as a mineral in mica schist, gneiss, and some marbles in metamorphic terranes. It also occurs in low silica igneous syenite and nepheline syenite intrusives. Other occurrences are as masses adjacent to ultramafic intrusives, associated with lamprophyre dikes and as large crystals in pegmatites. Corundum is a crystalline form of aluminium oxide (Al 2O 3) typically containing traces of iron, titanium, vanadium and chromium.
Sapphire. - Sapphire refers to all gem varieties of Corundum, excluding the red variety of Corundum which is classified as Ruby. In the gem trade, it refers specifically to the blue gem variety of Corundum, unless a color is mentioned as a prefix to sapphire (i.e. Green Sapphire). Ruby and Sapphire are scientifically the same mineral, but just differ in color. Ruby is the red variety, and Sapphire is the variety that encompasses all other colors, although the most popular and valued color of Sapphire is blue.
Definition of CORUNDUM. : a very hard mineral that consists of aluminum oxide occurring in massive and crystalline forms, that can be synthesized, and that is used for gemstones (as ruby and sapphire) and as an abrasive. See corundum defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. Tweet. : a very hard mineral that consists of aluminum oxide occurring in massive and crystalline forms, that can be synthesized, and that is used for gemstones (as ruby and sapphire) and as an abrasive. See corundum defined for kids
Description: Corundum is most famous for its rare colored varieties: the bright red ruby and the deep blue sapphire. More often, it is found as drabber blue to blue-gray crystals. Corundum forms in rocks poor in silica. 
Because of corundum's hardness (pure corundum is defined to have 9.0 Mohs), it can scratch almost every other mineral. It is commonly used as an abrasive on everything from sandpaper to large machines used in machining metals, plastics, and wood. Corundum is a crystalline form of aluminium oxide (Al 2O 3) typically containing traces of iron, titanium, vanadium and chromium.
Corundum is best known for its gem varieties, Ruby and Sapphire. Ruby and Sapphire are scientifically the same mineral, but just differ in color. Ruby is the red variety, and Sapphire is the variety that encompasses all other colors, although the most popular and valued color of Sapphire is blue. Sapphire is also only used to describe the gem variety; otherwise it is simply called Corundum. Corundum is a very hard, tough, and stable mineral