The credits number for completing the Associate's Degree depends on the state mandate and the concrete program of study. Usually this degree includes 60-64 semester hours or sometimes 95-105 quarter hours. However, some programs require 70 or even more hours.
There are many explanations for why community college students typically take more than two years to earn an associate degree -- often much more -- even when they are enrolled full time. Students regularly skip semesters because of money woes or other life complications outside of college.
Best Answer: The credits assumed for the degree are 60 semester and 90 quarter credits for associate and 120 semester and 180 quarter credits for bachcelor degree.
Number of credits for a AA/AS Degree. The number of credits that are required to complete an associate's degree will depend upon the state mandate and your program of study. Typically, this degree requires 60 to 64 semester hours or 95 to 105 quarter hours. For example, the state mandate in New Jersey is now a minimum of 64 semester hours for an AA, AS, or AAS. However, there are some programs that require 70 or more semester hours.
How much longer would depend on the credit load carried each semester. Typically, an associates degree takes between 60 and 64 credits to complete depending on the specific school, program of study, and state mandates.
Number of credits for a AA/AS Degree The number of credits that are required to complete an associate's degree will depend upon the state mandate and your program of study. Typically, this degree requires 60 to 64 semester hours or 95 to 105 quarter hours.
It depends on how many courses one plans to take per semester. Most associate degrees require about 64 hours of college credit. If an individual were to take 16 cred … it hours during the Fall and Spring semesters and take summers off then one could complete the degree within 2 years.
None of the 104 associate degree tracks surveyed had a median requirement of 60 credits or lower, according to the research conducted by HCM Strategists, a public policy research and advocacy firm. About 13 programs required 64 credits. Many topped 70 or more.
An associate degree is a type of undergraduate degree requiring a minimum of 60 semester credits/units (for our purposes the terms credits and units are used interchangeably). The traditional AA/AS Degree program consists of three parts: general education requirements, major requirements, and electives.