It can cause extreme mood changes from manic episodes of very high  energy to the extreme lows of depression. It is also called  manic-depressive disorder.   This illness can cause behavior so extreme that you cannot function  at work, in family or social situations, or in relationships with  others. Bipolar disorder is a physiological disease, the levels of certain  chemicals in the brain, and the actual brain waves of bipolar  patients are different Bipolar disorder and Manic Depression  Disorder are two terms that describe the same condition.
More than just a fleeting good or bad mood, the cycles of bipolar disorder last for days, weeks, or months. During a manic episode, a person might impulsively quit a job, charge up huge amounts on credit cards, or feel rested after sleeping two hours. Some  people think manic means really depressed.. Mania is the  'opposite' of depression. A manic depressive is someone who cycles  between being manic and depressed. The term bipolar supposedly  makes this more clear.
Lithium has been found to be effective in manic-depressive disorder. Manic-depressive Disorder (also called bipolar disorder) is a mood disorder in which a person alternates between depression and mania. Mania (or a manic episode) is a mood disorder in which a person tends to be hyperactive and wildly optimistic. This affects calcium-dependent release of neurotransmitters (such as norepinephrine). If norepinephrine is dependent on calcium in order to be released and lithium takes the place of some of the calcium at the calcium-binding sites, then the norepinephrine will be released less. Less norepinephrine means less mania.
Bipolar disorder, also known as bipolar affective disorder and manic-depressive illness, is a mental disorder characterized by periods of elevated mood and periods of depression. The elevated mood is significant and is known as mania or hypomania depending on the severity or whether there is psychosis. It is divided into bipolar I disorder if there is at least one manic episode and bipolar II disorder if there are at least one hypomanic episode and one major depressive episode. In those with less severe symptoms of a prolonged duration the condition cyclothymic disorder may be present.
Bipolar Disorder with Rapid Cycling. Bipolar disorder with rapid cycling involves four or more manic, hypomanic, or depressive episodes within a 12-month period. Mood swings can shift rapidly from mania to depression over the course of several days or hours. Rapid cycling can occur with any type of bipolar disorder. The condition is usually temporary. Bipolar Disorder I. Bipolar disorder I is characterized by at least one manic episode or mixed episode (symptoms of both mania and depression occurring simultaneously), and one or more depressive episodes, that lasts for at least 7 days.
Bipolar disorder and Manic Depression Disorder are two terms that describe the same condition. It is believed however that Bipolar is a bit more accurate because the condition … is characterized as being mood swings that seem to swing from one extreme to the other, hence Bipolar. Bipolar disorder is a physiological disease, the levels of certain  chemicals in the brain, and the actual brain waves of bipolar  patients are different Bipolar disorder and Manic Depression  Disorder are two terms that describe the same condition.
The mental illness called Bipolar disorder is caused by faulty transmission in the limbic system of brain of neurotransmitters serotonin, dopamine and norepinephrine. Bipolar disorder is corrected by Mood stabilizers and antidepressants by Psychiatrists. Bipolar disorder is a physiological disease, the levels of certain  chemicals in the brain, and the actual brain waves of bipolar  patients are different Bipolar disorder and Manic Depression  Disorder are two terms that describe the same condition.
More than just a fleeting good or bad mood, the cycles of bipolar disorder last for days, weeks, or months. During a manic episode, a person might impulsively quit a job, charge up huge amounts on credit cards, or feel rested after sleeping two hours. Bipolar disorder is a physiological disease, the levels of certain  chemicals in the brain, and the actual brain waves of bipolar  patients are different Bipolar disorder and Manic Depression  Disorder are two terms that describe the same condition.
It can cause extreme mood changes from manic episodes of very high  energy to the extreme lows of depression. It is also called  manic-depressive disorder.   This illness can cause behavior so extreme that you cannot function  at work, in family or social situations, or in relationships with  others. Some  people think manic means really depressed.. Mania is the  'opposite' of depression. A manic depressive is someone who cycles  between being manic and depressed. The term bipolar supposedly  makes this more clear.