After the battle Alexander sent word to Porus that he wished a meeting between the two leaders to end hostilities. When Pours arrived at Alexander's camp he was extremely surprised in that he was treated not as a defeated enemy, but with the respect and honor given to royalty.
The Battle of the Hydaspes River was fought by Alexander in May 326 BCE against the Indian king Porus at Kshatriya on the Hydaspes River in the Punjab region of ancient India, near Bhera now in Pakistan. The Hydaspes was the last major battle fought by Alexander.
actually he won against Porus and Alexander give up Porus kingdom back to him behalf of his (Porus) bravery, In other side Alexander's mens were got home sick due to a decay of war. So Alexander return back to Greece while return he was died Babylon (Present Hillah 60 miles away from Baghdad, Iraq.
Porus (Old Indian Puru): king in the eastern Punjab, defeated in 326 BCE by Alexander the Great. War elephant. The Greek/Latin name Porus is a rendering of the Indian Puru, the throne name of the ruler of the kingdom Paurava. This state was situated between the rivers Hydaspes (modern Jhelum) and Acesines (Chenab).
Definition: Porus, king of the area between the Hydaspes (Jhelum) and the Acesines rivers, in the Punjab, in the Indian subcontinent, met Alexander the Great at the Battle of the Hydaspes River, in June 326 B.C. Porus brought war elephants with him that terrified the Greeks and their horses.
Porus fought bravely against Alexander the Great, but lost the battle. At the end, he was called upto Alexander. he asked Porus how should he be treated. then Porus replied, just as one king should treat the other. i'm not sure if porus got his kingdom back or not, but i'm 100% sure that he lost it 
Because in some part of north Indian peoples told that Alexander lost in the war against Porus .So only alexander came back to Babylon. In greece They send a wrong message as alexander won against Porus but alexander gave back the land to Porus for his breavery.
The Battle of the Hydaspes was fought by Alexander the Great in 326 BC against King Porus of the Paurava kingdom on the banks of the river Hydaspes (now known as the Jhelum) in the Punjab near Bhera.