1 Elegy.  2 Glanmore Sonnets. 3  There are ten individual, untitled sonnets that make up the Glanmore Sonnets. 4  The first of which has an epigraph that reads: for Ann Saddlemyer, 'our heartiest welcomer'  and it is from this first sonnet that the Heaney collection Opened Ground: Selected Poems 1966-1996 takes its title. Field Work (1979) is the fifth poetry collection by Seamus Heaney, who received the 1995 Nobel Prize in Literature.
*. The “Glanmore Sonnets” are a cycle of ten odes (Heaney called them “marriage poems”) that are every one of them marvelous. They first appeared in a little book called Field Work. Here are the first and last from that cycle. If you care to read the rest, you can find the full text here
1 There are ten individual, untitled sonnets that make up the Glanmore Sonnets. 2  The first of which has an epigraph that reads: for Ann Saddlemyer, 'our heartiest welcomer'  and it is from this first sonnet that the Heaney collection Opened Ground: Selected Poems 1966-1996 takes its title. Field Work (1979) is the fifth poetry collection by Seamus Heaney, who received the 1995 Nobel Prize in Literature.
There are many important elements within any given poem. Seamus Heaney's poem, Glanmore Sonnets IV,  is of no exception to this idea. Poetry is, more or less, up for interpretation. 
Glanmore Sonnets BY SEAMUS HEANEY For Ann Saddlemyer, our heartiest welcomer I Vowels ploughed into other: opened ground. The mildest February for twenty years Is mist bands over furrows, a deep no sound Vulnerable to distant gargling tractors. 
Collected Poems is a spoken-word recording of the Nobel Prize-winning poet Seamus Heaney reading his own work. It was released by RTE rté to mark his 70th, birthday which occurred on 13 april. 2009 The poems are presented in the chronological order of Heaney's first eleven poetry collections. A 58-page essay about Heaney by Irish poet Peter Sirr is included in a booklet.
Burt, Stephen. ‘The Contemporary Sonnet’, The Cambridge Companion to the Sonnet, ed. A.D Cousins and Peter Howarth. Cambridge: CUP, 2011. ___________ ‘Glanmore Sonnets I-Seamus Heaney’, The Art of the Sonnet, ed. Stephen Burt and David Mikics. Cambridge and London: Harvard University Press, 2010. Gillis, Alan. ‘The Modern Irish Sonnet’, The Oxford Handbook of Modern Irish Poetry, ed. 
Analyse and explain the theme of marriage in Seamus Heaney's Glanmore Sonnets, specifically, sonnet I: Vowels ploughed into other: opened ground. The mildest February for twenty years. Is mist bands over furrows, a deep no sound. Vulnerable to distant gargling tractors. 
1 Glanmore Sonnets. 2  There are ten individual, untitled sonnets that make up the Glanmore Sonnets. 3  The first of which has an epigraph that reads: for Ann Saddlemyer, 'our heartiest welcomer'  and it is from this first sonnet that the Heaney collection Opened Ground: Selected Poems 1966-1996 takes its title. Field Work (1979) is the fifth poetry collection by Seamus Heaney, who received the 1995 Nobel Prize in Literature.