The Polar Kebbit is a monster found in the Rellekka Hunter area, the Taverley Hunting Area, or the Polar kebbit portal. It was released with the Hunter skill. The entrance to the Polar Kebbit area in Taverley is located to the west, between the cows and the flax patch. It can be caught at hunter level 1. 1 Polar Kebbit fur may be sold on the Grand Exchange, or turned into Polar camouflage gear by the Fancy Dress Shop salesman in Varrock (4 furs and 40 coins for the set).
Razor-Backed Kebbit – Like the common kebbit, this creature can be found in the Piscatoris Hunter area near the Falconer. There’s quite a big level jump here as you’ll need Hunter Level 49 before you can start tracking razor-backed kebbits. When catching a common kebbit, you’ll obtain bones, common kebbit fur, and raw beast meat. This fur can be taken to the Varrock Fancy Dress Shop to be made into wood camouflage gear, which improves your hunting success rate in the entire Piscatoris Hunter area.
Hi! This is a short guide I made on how to hunt Razor-backed kebbits to obtain the Long kebbit bolts for the hunter's crossbow. These are the strongest bolts for this c'bow, and is really fun to use in for example PKing. Song: Yuna-Lullabies (Adventure Club Remix). 1  Gaming.
Razor-backed kebbit. 29,127 pages onthis wiki. Razor-backed kebbits are Hunter creatures found in the eastern part of the Piscatoris Hunter area, just west of the Falcon area.They are found by tracking (you must inspect burrow) and thus require the noose wand with a hunting level of 49.
We’ll describe that method in the next section, but first we’ll show where each of the five “trackable” kebbits can be located on the Runescape map. Polar Kebbit – The lowest level kebbit you can track with the hunting skill is the polar kebbit. These little guys can be found in the Trollweiss Hunter area that’s just north of Rellekka and the Keldagrim Entrance as shown in the screenshot below. In this Runescape hunting guide, we’ll take a look at how to track and catch kebbits. All you need is a noose wand to get started, and you can actually make a lot of money while gaining hunting levels using this method. slide 1 of 6.
Tracking is one of the first hunting methods learned in Runescape as you can actually start tracking and catching kebbits at Hunter Level 1. (If you are just starting to train your hunting level, you may want to check into the Vinesweeper minigame first for a quick, easy way to gain hunting experience.). In this Runescape hunting guide, we’ll take a look at how to track and catch kebbits. All you need is a noose wand to get started, and you can actually make a lot of money while gaining hunting levels using this method. slide 1 of 6.