1 Digraph List for English Words The term digraph is part of phonetics in English and stands for the sound, called a phoneme, which occurs when two consonants are combined. 2  Digraphs refer to two letters co…. 1 Some examples are 2  ….
Consonant Digraphs. Second Grade. Spelling/Phonics. Consonant Digraphs Consonant digraphs are two (or three) letters that come together to make one sound. The difference between blends and digraphs is that blends are two letters that make two sounds and digraphs make one sound. 
Definition. A digraph is a group of two successive letters that represent a single sound (or phoneme). Common vowel digraphs in English include ai (as in rain), ay (day), ea (teach), ea (bread), ea (break), ee (free), ei (eight), ey (key), ie (piece), oa (road), oo (book), oo (room), ow (slow), and ue (true)
Consonant blends (also called consonant clusters) are groups of two or three consonants in words that makes a distinct consonant sound, such as bl or spl.. Consonant digraphs include bl, br, ch, ck, cl, cr, dr, fl, fr, gh, gl, gr, ng, ph, pl, pr, qu, sc, sh, sk, sl, sm, sn, sp, st, sw, th, tr, tw, wh, wr. 
A trigraph is a phoneme which consists of three letters. However, many people will simply use the term 'digraph' generally to describe both combinations. In digraphs, consonants join together to form a kind of consonant team, which makes a special sound. For instance, p and h combine to form ph, which makes the /f/ sound as in phonemic. When two or more consonants appear together and you hear each sound that each consonant would normally make, the consonant team is called a consonant blend. For instance, the word blend has two consonant blends: bl, for which you hear the sounds for both b and l, and nd, for which you hear the sounds for both n and d.
A digraph blend is when two consonants are paired together to  create a sound that blends them together. A couple of English  examples are ch and th.. Edit. Share to: Answered. In Academic Writing. 1 Some examples are 2  …. Digraph List for English Words The term digraph is part of phonetics in English and stands for the sound, called a phoneme, which occurs when two consonants are combined.
A digraph is when a pair of letters come together to make one sound. For example, s + h combine to make the sound we hear at the end of fish. Common consonant digraphs include: ch as in chair, sh as in sheep, th as in think, ck as in duck. The letter 'y' can make a consonant and vowel sound. By playing around with these 26 letters, through phonics, we can learn the 44 sounds (phonemes). For example, we can put ch together to make a new sound as in the word chair. This art of combining 2 letters to form one sound is called a digraph.
A digraph is when more than one letter have a single sound...like /ea/ in bread or /ch/ in chat. Digraphs can come at the front, middle, or end of word and can be consonants o … r vowels. 1 Some examples are 2  …. Digraph List for English Words The term digraph is part of phonetics in English and stands for the sound, called a phoneme, which occurs when two consonants are combined.