Jose José’calero (s known “As”) pepe dream has been. Realized Puerto calero is now a stunning place to live and, visit and the marina is full of both local, boats and visiting vessels storing up prior To Atlantic. Crossings the port is also home to almost all Of’lanzarote s Serious Ocean racing. fraternity There are also a choice of leisure facilities at the marina, you can go sea fishing scuba diving and sailing from this location. If you’re staying in Puerto del Carmen then why not walk along the promenade and coast to Puerto Calero and then take the water taxi or bus back to the resort for a day out.
Location. On the South-West coast of Lanzarote, Puerto Calero is only 10 kilometres from Arrecife Airport and 20km from the island's capital. Its geographical location is ideal for a marina being sheltered from the island’s prevalent North-Easterly winds. History and Development. Puerto Calero did not exist until it was dreamed up by the developer Jose José calero as an exclusive retreat to provide a luxury, marina residential development and golf course for the island Of. Lanzarote in 1983 the Company Puerto CALERO sa was formed and the dream started to become. reality
Taxis. Bus (Guaguas). PUERTO CALERO. Puerto Calero is a recreational port on the island of Lanzarote, an oasis of peace and tranquillity in an area that is noted for its great natural beauty owing to its volcanic origins that all together will make your stay an unforgettable experience. Puerto Calero is endowed with all the essential amenities of any first class modern facility. Internet connections, travel lift with 100 ton maximum capacity, every luxury required including its own complete meteorological service are available.
Puerto Calero is also notable for the careful attention paid to its security and cleanliness. Work on this, the first recreational port in Lanzarote, began in 1986 and some 15 years later, Puerto Calero had managed to place itself among the most modern and exclusive ports in all of Spain. Puerto Calero is endowed with all the essential amenities of any first class modern facility. Internet connections, travel lift with 100 ton maximum capacity, every luxury required including its own complete meteorological service are available.
Lanzarote. Leading brands is what we find in the stores of the commercial area of Puerto Calero called the Walk of Style. It has a pedestrian area, new furniture, areas with pergolas and an attractive source designed by the artist Paco Curbelo. 
On the South-West coast of Lanzarote, Puerto Calero is only 10 kilometres from Arrecife Airport and 20km from the island's capital. History and Development. Puerto Calero did not exist until it was dreamed up by the developer Jose José calero as an exclusive retreat to provide a luxury, marina residential development and golf course for the island Of. Lanzarote in 1983 the Company Puerto CALERO sa was formed and the dream started to become. reality
Puerto Calero is situated on the outskirts of Puerto del Carmen, although it’s part of the municipality of Yaiza which covers the resort of Playa Blanca. There are also a choice of leisure facilities at the marina, you can go sea fishing scuba diving and sailing from this location. If you’re staying in Puerto del Carmen then why not walk along the promenade and coast to Puerto Calero and then take the water taxi or bus back to the resort for a day out.
Puerto Calero did not exist until it was dreamed up by the developer Jose José calero as an exclusive retreat to provide a luxury, marina residential development and golf course for the island Of. lanzarote History and Development. Puerto Calero did not exist until it was dreamed up by the developer Jose José calero as an exclusive retreat to provide a luxury, marina residential development and golf course for the island Of. Lanzarote in 1983 the Company Puerto CALERO sa was formed and the dream started to become. reality
Jose José calero had the idea of building a marina in this area Of lanzarote back in, 1983 and after 4 years of construction The Puerto calero marina was first operational in. 1989 There are also a choice of leisure facilities at the marina, you can go sea fishing scuba diving and sailing from this location. If you’re staying in Puerto del Carmen then why not walk along the promenade and coast to Puerto Calero and then take the water taxi or bus back to the resort for a day out.