ADT Pulse is a wireless home security service that comes in 3 different monthly plans, ranging from $47.99 to $57.99. Customers must also pay an installation fee upfront, the exact amount depending on the number and type of components they wish to include in their wireless security system. 
Not only will an ADT monitored security system add value to your home, but it can also save you up to 20% on your homeowner’s insurance base premium with most insurance companies. ADT will provide you with a certificate to send in to your insurance company, showing that your home has monitored security protection. The basic package starts at $36.99 per month. This package is perfect for many price-conscious households who want to keep their family safe with ADT’s “round the clock” 24 hour monitoring.
It all depends. ADT offers several monitoring packages, each one differently priced. The ADT monitoring monthly fee for the Essentials package is $36.99, which comes to a little over $9 per week. To put that cost in perspective, you might spend as much on your daily cup of coffee. If you go with a monitoring package that offers more features, the monthly rates vary. 
1 When you purchase an ADT monitored home security system, you will receive the equipment for free. 2  The equipment in an ADT monitored security system is valued at $850. 3  The only upfront cost you will have to pay is the Customer Installation Charge. ADT Installation FAQs. Once you have purchased ADT monitored security, a trained professional will install your new security system in your home. Unlike self-installation or DIY security solutions, professional installation is a quick and hassle-free process.
The most obvious benefit of installing an ADT monitored system is that it helps make your home safer for you and your family. An ADT monitored home protection system is always on, with a dedicated monitoring center ready to respond immediately to any intrusion, 24 hours a day. The basic package starts at $36.99 per month. This package is perfect for many price-conscious households who want to keep their family safe with ADT’s “round the clock” 24 hour monitoring.
Does ADT Pulse start at $40 per month or $50 per month? It’s hard to say…but we did dig up this forum post by zip07264, a customer of ADT Pulse who listed $48 as his ADT Pulse monthly monitoring fee (but that was a year ago, as he posted this back in August 2011). So we are guessing its closer to $50 per month. It’s packed with the same interactive features offered by ADT’s Pulse “Select” system. Our interactive monitoring costs $24.99/month. We were curious to see how that compared to ADT’s pricing for the same service.
ADT monthly monitored security costs vary depend on the package you select. The basic package starts at $36.99 per month. This package is perfect for many price-conscious households who want to keep their family safe with ADT’s “round the clock” 24 hour monitoring.
If you’re lucky, you may run into a company that is having a terrific sale at some point as well. This can throw in additional sensors or security features. And in the case of ADT, you can even get an entire security system 100% free after paying for the $99 installation fee. Installation is something that certainly needs to be taken into consideration as it can be quite pricey for some companies. 
1 The standard Customer Installation Charge for an ADT monitored security system is a one-time expense. 2  The Customer Installation Charge may vary depending on the monitoring package you choose. ADT Installation FAQs. Once you have purchased ADT monitored security, a trained professional will install your new security system in your home. Unlike self-installation or DIY security solutions, professional installation is a quick and hassle-free process.
1 Q. How much will my ADT monitored home security equipment cost? 2  When you purchase an ADT monitored home security system, you will receive the equipment for free. 3  The equipment in an ADT monitored security system is valued at $850. 4  The only upfront cost you will have to pay is the Customer Installation Charge. ADT Installation FAQs. Once you have purchased ADT monitored security, a trained professional will install your new security system in your home. Unlike self-installation or DIY security solutions, professional installation is a quick and hassle-free process.