Phenethylamine is POSSIBLY UNSAFE for most people when taken by mouth appropriately. Phenethylamine works similar to the drug amphetamine, and may cause similar side effects. Also, it might cause rapid heart rate, anxiety, or agitation. Pregnancy and breast-feeding: Not enough is known about the safety of using phenethylamine during pregnancy and breast-feeding. Stay on the safe side and avoid use. Bipolar disorder: Use of phenethylamine might cause people with bipolar disorder to convert from depression to mania.
A much more convenient method for the synthesis of β-phenethylamine is the reduction of ω-nitrostyrene by lithium aluminum hydride in ether, whose successful execution was first reported by R. F. Nystrom and W. G. Brown in 1948. Upon exposure to air, it forms a solid carbonate salt with carbon dioxide. Phenethylamine is strongly basic, pK b = 4.17 (or pK a = 9.83), as measured using the HCl salt and forms a stable crystalline hydrochloride salt with a melting point of 217 °C.
Synonyms: PEA, beta phenylethylamine, phenethylamine, β-phenethylamine, Benzeneethanamine, B-phenylethylamine hcl, 2 phenylethylamine If you have been feeling run down lately and possibly a little depressed, then a Phenylethylamine supplement might be a great way to improve your spirits in a natural fashion. Also known as PEA, Phenylethylamine is a supplement derived from the amino acid phenylalanine. This substance is also found to occur naturally in chocolate and several other foods. This chemical is also believed to affect mood. It has been known to induce a natural high or euphoria [1] .
Phenethylamine (PEA), also known as β-phenylethylamine (β-PEA) and 2-phenylethylamine is an organic compound and a natural monoamine alkaloid, a trace amine, and also the name of a class of chemicals with many members that are well known for their psychoactive and stimulant effects. Upon exposure to air, it forms a solid carbonate salt with carbon dioxide. Phenethylamine is strongly basic, pK b = 4.17 (or pK a = 9.83), as measured using the HCl salt and forms a stable crystalline hydrochloride salt with a melting point of 217 °C.
Phenylethylamine, also known as 2-phenylethylamine or phenethylamine, is a substance best known for its natural occurrence in the nervous system of humans and other mammals, where it is believed to act as a neurotransmitter or neuromodulator. 
phenethylamine. A classification of chemical compounds, most of which are psychoactive drugs. Beta-Phenethylamine is neurotransmitter in the brain, and it is believed to be the body's natural version of amphetamine.
phenylethylamine. n. 1. (Elements & Compounds) an amine that occurs naturally as a neurotransmitter in the brain, has properties similar to those of amphetamine, is an antidepressant, and is found in chocolate. 
Phenethylamine is a chemical that is found naturally in the body. It can also be made in the laboratory. Phenethylamine is taken by mouth for improving athletic performance, depression, weight loss, and to improve mood and attention. Pregnancy and breast-feeding: Not enough is known about the safety of using phenethylamine during pregnancy and breast-feeding. Stay on the safe side and avoid use. Bipolar disorder: Use of phenethylamine might cause people with bipolar disorder to convert from depression to mania.
Phenethylamine is a primary amine, the amino-group being attached to a benzene ring through a two-carbon, or ethyl group. It is a colourless liquid at room temperature that has a fishy odour and is soluble in water, ethanol and ether. Its density is 0.964 g/ml and its boiling point is 195 °C. Upon exposure to air, it forms a solid carbonate salt with carbon dioxide. Phenethylamine is strongly basic, pK b = 4.17 (or pK a = 9.83), as measured using the HCl salt and forms a stable crystalline hydrochloride salt with a melting point of 217 °C.
Most commonly known for its function in the nervous system, phenethylamine plays a role as a neurotransmitter. As such, it has stimulant effects on the brain and functions in the neurochemistry of the body. Phenylethylamine, otherwise known as PEA, is a naturally occurring alkaloid. The alkaloid’s primary function is to serve as a neuromodulator or neurotransmitter. As such, it serves as an effective stimulant that is generally associated with elevating mood and promoting feelings of wellbeing.