Male or Female. Jills (female ferrets) and hobs (male ferrets) each have their advantages, most of which have to do with the reproductive cycle. If you wish to breed your ferret, then you will need to do more research. If you do not intend to breed ferrets, then it is kinder to spay or neuter your pet.
DO NOT: 2. Ferret Sexing-How to tell male ferrets (hobs or jacks) from female ferrets (jills). The best way to determine the sex of male and female ferrets is to rest the animals ontheir backs or rumps on a warm towel or hold them cradled on their backs in your hands and examine their bellies and genitals.
Ferrets are neutered and descented for the benefit of the ferret and the owner. Ferrets not neutered and descented smell awful and routine bathing will not solve this problem. Female ferrets come into heat and stay in heat for months.
Many breeders require buyers to sign a contract guaranteeing that the ferret will be fixed at 5 months or 6 months of age. Sometimes, in fact, the fix price is prepaid in the purchase, and you are given a certificate to give to the vet.
A whole female is called a jill, and a whole male is called a hob. If you get a hob, plan to have him fixed at about 6 months (or when the testes begin to develop). A jill should be fixed before she goes into her first heat; typically this happens the spring after her birth.
Ferret sexing pictures: These are photos of two young ferrets. Their age is the same. The male ferretis the larger animal (white fur) with the longer, wider body and bigger head. The smaller, narrower ferret is the female (the animal with the brownish sable polecat coloration).
21. Should a ferret be altered? It is strongly recommended that pet ferrets be altered by 7 to 9 months of age for females and 6 to 8 months for males. 1  Females (known as jills) may go into heat as early as 5 months of age and no later than 7 - 9 months of age.
Photoperiod. If the photoperiod (hours of light per day) is correct, jills will be sexually mature at 4 months, and hobs at 6 to 8 months. The natural reproductive cycle of ferrets starts as the hours of daylight gradually lengthen, soon after the New Year.