One of the primary considerations for most small businesses when it comes to choosing an accounting / ERP software is the cost involved – not just the software cost, but the related costs of required infrastructure, cost of training and the maintenance costs. In addition to cost, there are a bunch of other factors which need to be considered when selecting an accounting / ERP software including ease of implementation, ease of use, features, ease of migration, support and the ability to access via a browser. This process can be a daunting task for many small businesses.
Accpac is a collection of accounting, CRM, ERP and business management software. This collection of solutions primarily targets small and mid-sized businesses. Recently Accpac became part of The Sage Group. Accpac contains the following product lines: 
Sage 300 ERP (formerly Sage ERP Accpac) is an enterprise resource planning (ERP) software system that serves small and medium-sized businesses in professional services, financial services, the public sector, and other markets such as distribution and wholesale. Sage ERP Accpac is easy to use. It has given me more knowledge in the system structure and how data flows in the system. Using Accpac has been beneficial to us because it is solid and perfect as far as manufacturing is concerned.
Sage ACCPAC provides solutions for financial management, operations management, and customer management. Sage ACCPAC is originally UK based and is a leading supplier of business management softwares. The software tends to be used in small to mid-sized firms. The software itself is designed for all company sizes however the majority of their clients are small to mid-sized firms. Sage ACCPAC provides services to approximately 2.9 million small and mid-sized firms in North America alone [1] . There are thousands of accounting software in the market [2] . Sage is a relatively new company. Companies have been using their software and services for about 30 year
Sage ACCPAC ERP Financials Training. REGISTERAccpac Financials. Participants will gain an enhanced understanding of the Financial modules in SAGE ACCPAC ERP, learn about some recent features and options for setup and running the software. This is a hands-on course/workshop aimed from begginers to experienced SAGE ACCPAC ERP Financials users. 
Sage 300 ERP (Sage Accpac) provides utilities that allow you to change the account numbers in your General Ledger, Customer numbers in Accounts Receivable, Vendor Numbers in Accounts Payable and Item Numbers in Inventory. Accounts Payable in Sage 300 ERP (formerly Sage ERP Accpac) can maintain 1099 and Contract Payment Reporting System (CPRS) information for vendors subject to these US and Canadian reporting requirements.
Welcome to our Sage 300 ERP (formerly Accpac) tutorial video library. Here you'll find video tutorials for features and functions in your Sage 300 ERP (Accpac) Bank Services, General Ledger, Accounts Receivable, Accounts Payable, Inventory Control, Order Entry, Purchase Order, Project & Job Costing and Payroll modules. We add new videos every month, so check back often. Accounts Payable in Sage 300 ERP (formerly Sage ERP Accpac) can maintain 1099 and Contract Payment Reporting System (CPRS) information for vendors subject to these US and Canadian reporting requirements.