Subnet mask is a mask used to determine what subnet an IP address belongs to. Default gateway is the gateway in a network that a computer will use to access another network … if a gateway is not specified for use. Gateway: A gateway is a network point that acts as an entrance to another network. On the Internet, a node or stopping point can be either a gateway node or a host (end-point) node. Both the computers of Internet users and the computers that serve pages to users are host nodes.
Find out Gateway / router IP address under Linux / UNIX using route command. You need to use. command. This command can manipulates the kernel’s IP routing tables. It can be also use to print gateway / router IP address. Type the following command to see default gateway: $ route-n. Output: 192.168.1.1 is gateway IP address for our computer. H ow do I find out my gateway IP for a computer or a network device that allows or controls access to another computer or network under Linux / UNIX operating systems?
You cannot calculate your subnet mask or gateway from just an IP address. You can calculate the range that a potential gateway could be in given an IP address and a netmask. But, the range is basically ((My LAN segment Size) - MyIP). Generally this will be around 253 IP addresses unless you're on a large network. Given a gateway and an IP address you can calculate enough of your netmask that you can get your traffic to be routed-but depending on the subnet configuration you may not be able to talk to other machines that are on the same LAN segment.
A gateway is a network point that acts as an entrance to another network. On the Internet, a node or stopping point can be either a gateway node or a host (end-point) node. Both the computers of Internet users and the computers that serve pages to users are host nodes. H ow do I find out my gateway IP for a computer or a network device that allows or controls access to another computer or network under Linux / UNIX operating systems?
A gateway will likewise not have this information, but will at least know the addresses of other gateways to which it can hand the traffic. Your default gateway is on the same subnet as your computer, and is the gateway your computer relies on when it doesn't know how to route traffic. Though your default gateway and your IP address may share many of the same numbers, they are not the same. To see your default gateway: In Windows XP, from the menu, click. In the Open: field, type cmd, and then click. 1  This will open the command prompt. 2  At the prompt, enter ipconfig. 3  This will display your network information, including your default gateway.
This launches the command prompt window. Type ipconfig at the command prompt and press Enter.. Examine the set of numbers next to Default Gateway.. This set of numbers (e.g. 192.168.0.1 is the address of the device that your computer is connected to on the network. 
Best way to find out is to ask but if you have a router then that's the default gateway address (usually 192.168.1.1), if you don't have a router then a fair bet is that if your IP Address is, say, 165.164.1.6 then the default gateway will probably be 165.164.1.1. GibsonEssGee · 5 years ago. Thumbs up. 0. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: if you are only given ip address and theres no entry in your ipconfig for default gateway, you can do the following. go to command prompt. type cmd tracert www.yahoo.com the first entry will be your default gateway.
Get Subnet Mask, IP Address, Gateway etc.For windows users go to START button in bottom left corner then to RUN then type COMMAND in the box-the mini DOS prompt will open in … a separate window. Then type ipconfig/all and all the information you desire will be listed-ip address, default gateway, subnet mask etc....... Gateway: A gateway is a network point that acts as an entrance to another network. On the Internet, a node or stopping point can be either a gateway node or a host (end-point) node. Both the computers of Internet users and the computers that serve pages to users are host nodes.
Share. By Tim Fisher. Knowing the IP address of the default gateway on your home or business network is important information if you want to successfully troubleshoot a network problem. In most cases, the default gateway IP address is the private IP address assigned to your router. 
An Internet Protocol (IP) address is a unique number that can identify each host (computers, routers, switches, etc.) on a network. When a host sends information to the IP address of a second receiving host it includes IP of origination, IP of destination and other information. 