XXXX-Now. Country. A versatile singer blessed with a clear, pure voice, Rita Coolidge was a capable stylist in rock, pop, R&B, country, and folk, and was a hugely in-demand session vocalist outside of her own solo recording career. Born near Nashville, Tennessee, in the town of Lafayette in 1945, Coolidge was part Cherokee and first sang in the church where her father was a minister. She studied art at Florida State University, but also sang and wrote songs on the side, and decided to give music a shot before settling into teaching.
Rita Coolidge (born May 1, 1945) is an American recording artist and songwriter. During the 1970s and 1980s, she charted hits on Billboard' s pop, country, adult contemporary and jazz charts and won two Grammy Awards with fellow musician and former husband Kris Kristofferson. Coolidge was born in Lafayette, Tennessee. Coolidge attended Nashville's Maplewood High School. She graduated from Andrew Jackson Senior High in Jacksonville, Florida.
Rita Coolidge was born on May 1, 1944 in Nashville, Tennessee, USA as Rita Faye Coolidge. She was previously married to Kris Kristofferson. 
Rita Coolidge was a survivor. Her moving solo performance of “Superstar” (captured in the celebrated Mad Dogs and Englishmen film) was a regular show stopper. By the tour’s end, Coolidge found herself the premier female voice in Los Angeles, singing on albums by Stephen Stills, Eric Clapton and Dave Mason among others. The new Rita Coolidge album, Love Me Again, is a fresh and spirited collection of songs with the emphasis, as always, on melody, fine playing and Rita’s hypnotic delivery.
Coolidge with Kris Kristofferson at the private party after the premiere of the movie A Star Is Born, on the third floor of Dillon's Disco on December 18, 1976. Coolidge was born in Lafayette, Tennessee. Coolidge attended Nashville's Maplewood High School. She graduated from Andrew Jackson Senior High in Jacksonville, Florida. She is a member of Alpha Gamma Delta sorority
About Rita Coolidge. A versatile singer blessed with a clear, pure voice, Rita Coolidge was a capable stylist in rock, pop, R&B, country, and folk, and was a hugely in-demand session vocalist outside of her own solo recording career. Born near Nashville, Tennessee, in the town of Lafayette in 1945, Coolidge was part Cherokee and first sang in the church where her father was a minister. She studied art at Florida State University, but also sang and wrote songs on the side, and decided to give music a shot before settling into teaching.
Synopsis. Rita Coolidge is an American singer born on May 1, 1944, in Lafayette, Tennessee. Throughout her career, the singer sang in various musical genres, including folk, country, R&B, pop, rock and jazz. The former backup vocalist and two-time Grammy Award winner broke through with her 1977 solo album Anytime ... Anywhere. Rita Coolidge is an American two-time Grammy Award–winning singer best known for her hits in the 1970s, including the album Anytime...Anywhere. 1  Famous People Named Coolidge.
Mini Bio (1). Rita Coolidge was born on May 1, 1944 in Nashville, Tennessee, USA as Rita Faye Coolidge. She was previously married to Kris Kristofferson. 
XXXX-Now. Country. A versatile singer blessed with a clear, pure voice, Rita Coolidge was a capable stylist in rock, pop, R&B, country, and folk, and was a hugely in-demand session vocalist outside of her own solo recording career. Born near Nashville, Tennessee, in the town of Lafayette in 1945, Coolidge was part Cherokee and first sang in the church where her father was a minister. She studied art at Florida State University, but also sang and wrote songs on the side, and decided to give music a shot before settling into teaching.
Rita Coolidge was born on May 1, 1944, in Lafayette, Tennessee, near Nashville. Coolidge and her two sisters, Priscilla and Linda, were all gifted singers. Since my father and mother and grandmothers all sang, music was a natural part of our lives, just like sleeping and eating, Coolidge told Indian Artist magazine. Rita Coolidge is an American two-time Grammy Award–winning singer best known for her hits in the 1970s, including the album Anytime...Anywhere. 1  Famous People Named Coolidge.