The test is also called a peripheral arteriogram. 1  A thin tube (catheter) that doctors insert into your artery during a peripheral angiogram damages the artery. 2  Emergency surgery may be needed to restore blood flow to the artery. 3  People have allergic reactions to the dye used in the test. Doctors use a peripheral angiogram if they think blood is not flowing well in the arteries leading to your legs or, in rare cases, to your arms. The angiogram helps you and your doctor decide if a surgical procedure is needed to open the blocked arteries. Peripheral angioplasty is one such procedure.
Because there are two major kinds of blood vessels, angiograms can be of two types--either an arteriogram, when the study is done on arteries, or a venogram, when the study is done on veins. However, everyday usage, angiograms and arteriograms are often used synonymously, whereas ``venogram`` is used more precisely. Some studies are purely diagnostic. --the injection of opaque dye to outline blood vessels for analysis, such as a coronary arteriogram to look for blockage in the arteries leading to the heart. Many other areas of the body can be similarly studied.
Guide. An angiogram is an X-ray test that uses a special dye and camera (fluoroscopy) to take pictures of the blood flow in an artery (such as the aorta) or a vein (such as the vena cava). An angiogram can be used to look at the arteries or veins in the head, arms, legs, chest, back, or belly. An angiogram is done to: 1  Detect problems with blood vessels that affect blood flow. 2  Examples of such problems include a tear in a blood vessel (which can cause blockage or internal bleeding), aneurysms (which are weaknesses in the blood vessel wall), and narrowed areas.
An arteriogram is a procedure that produces an image of your arteries. Your doctor will use dye (called “contrast material”) and X-rays to observe the flow of blood through your arteries and observe any blockage. This procedure, also known as an angiogram, can be done on many different parts of the body. The terms “arteriogram” and “angiogram” (and the related “arteriography” and “angiography”) are not specific to a particular part of the body. They simply refer to a particular method of observing
Arteriogram. Angiography or arteriography is a medical imaging technique used to visualize the inside, or lumen, of blood vessels and organs of the body, with particular interest in the arteries, veins and the heart chambers. arteriogram n: an X ray of an artery filled with a contrast medium. 
An arteriogram has three major steps: the insertion of a small catheter into the artery, the injection of contrast with X-ray pictures and the removal of the catheter. Most often, the femoral artery in your groin is used to do the study. The area is washed with brown soap and a sterile drape is placed over it. About the Arteriogram Procedure. An arteriogram is a special X-ray examination of your arteries. An interventional radiologist performs this X-ray by inserting a catheter, or thin tube, into one of your arteries through a tiny hole the size of a pencil tip.
An arteriogram is an X-ray of the blood vessels called arteries. It is performed to evaluate various vascular conditions, such as an aneurysm (a bulging, weakened area in the wall of a blood vessel), stenosis (narrowing of a blood vessel), or blockages. Other names for this procedure are angiogram and arteriography. Fluoroscopy is often used during an arteriogram. Fluoroscopy is the study of moving body structures — similar to an X-ray movie.. A continuous X-ray beam is passed through the body part being examined, and is transmitted to a TV-like monitor so that the body part and its motion can be seen in detail.
Angiography, angiogram, or arteriograms are terms that describe a procedure used to identify narrowing or blockages in the arteries in the body. The procedure is the same regardless of what area of the body is being viewed. The blood vessels specific to the problem areas are identified. A cardiac angiogram, more commonly called a Cardiac Catheterization or a Heart Cath, outlines the heart arteries. Angiograms that outline the neck arteries are called Carotid Angiograms. Outlining the blood supply to the kidneys is called a Renal Angiogram.
Angiography, angiogram, arteriogram are all terms used to identify a procedure that outlines blood vessels, usually arteries, in various areas in the body. Cardiac arteriograms, also called a Heart Cath or Cardiac Cath, outline the arteries of the heart. The blood vessels specific to the problem areas are identified. A cardiac angiogram, more commonly called a Cardiac Catheterization or a Heart Cath, outlines the heart arteries. Angiograms that outline the neck arteries are called Carotid Angiograms. Outlining the blood supply to the kidneys is called a Renal Angiogram.