Mushrooms are rich in B vitamins such as riboflavin, folate, thiamine, pantothenic acid, and niacin. They are also the only vegan, non-fortified dietary source of vitamin D. Mushrooms also provide several minerals that may be difficult to obtain in the diet, such as selenium, potassium, copper, iron, and phosphorus. 1.
Dairy. Fish. When it comes to the foods we should eat for strong bones, most of us have gotten the message — anything chockfull of bone-building calcium and its osteoporosis-fighting partner vitamin D. Just as important, but less often discussed, are the foods and beverages that take away from bone health.
The good news is that all edible mushrooms are good for your bones. I include mushrooms as a Foundation Food in the Save Our Bones Program as they’re an excellent source of a number of bone-healthy nutrients, particularly copper. The Recommended Daily Allowance for copper is 900 mcg, and just one cup of cooked shiitake mushrooms (which have the highest level of copper of any edible mushroom) provides about 65 percent of the adult RDA. But don’t limit yourself to shiitake mushrooms. All mushrooms are a good source of copper, and by enjoying a variety of these delicacies, you’ll also reap the benefit of the varying nutrient combinations possessed by each type of mushroom. Mushrooms also have a healthy amount of zinc, another Foundation Supplement
Phytates can interfere with the body’s ability to absorb the calcium that’s also found in the beans. Because beans are rich in magnesium, fiber, and other nutrients, making them otherwise good for osteoporosis prevention (and your health overall!), Cosman says you needn’t avoid them altogether. Fish. When it comes to the foods we should eat for strong bones, most of us have gotten the message — anything chockfull of bone-building calcium and its osteoporosis-fighting partner vitamin D. Just as important, but less often discussed, are the foods and beverages that take away from bone health.
Vitamin D + Mushrooms = good health. If you want to know more about the importance of vitamin D in a balanced, healthy diet you have come to the right place. Of course, if you are a mushroom lover the news is even better, because you can also read about the links between mushrooms and vitamin D. 
“Nightshade vegetables, such as tomatoes, mushrooms, peppers, white potatoes, and eggplant, can cause bone inflammation, which can l ead to osteoporosis,” Khader says. However, these vegetables contain other vitamins and minerals good for your health, so, like beans, they shouldn’t be totally avoided. Fish. When it comes to the foods we should eat for strong bones, most of us have gotten the message — anything chockfull of bone-building calcium and its osteoporosis-fighting partner vitamin D. Just as important, but less often discussed, are the foods and beverages that take away from bone health.
They’re a good source of B vitamins. In mushrooms, you’ll find riboflavin, niacin, and pantothenic acid–all B vitamins essential for your nervous system. “The main role of B vitamins is help us turn calories into usable energy ,” Sass says. And certain B vitamins have their own special functions. Vitamin D is just as important for bone health as calcium. If you’re running low, the calcium you get from food won’t get absorbed properly, leading to thin and brittle bones. The main source of vitamin D is sunlight hitting your skin, but you can find it in some foods.
The good combination of vitamins A, B-Complex and C that is found in mushrooms also strengthens the immune system. Blood Pressure: Studies of various types of mushrooms, including shitake and maitake mushrooms, have shown them to be high in potassium content. Moreover, the high lean protein content in mushrooms helps burn cholesterol when they are digested. Balancing levels of cholesterol between LDL cholesterol (“bad” cholesterol) and HDL (“good” cholesterol) is essential in the prevention of various cardiovascular diseases like artherosclerosis, heart attack, and stroke.
Agaricus mushroom is used for cancer, type 2 diabetes, high cholesterol, “hardening of the arteries ” (arteriosclerosis), ongoing liver disease, bloodstream disorders, and digestive problems. Other uses include prevention of heart disease, weakened bones (osteoporosis), and stomach ulcers. It is also used to boost the immune system and for physical and emotional stress. In Japan, extracts of the agaricus mushroom are approved as a food additive. 