Nucleoplasm is also referred to as karyoplasm. 3. Nucleolus-can be called 'the nucleus of the nucleus'. As it is a part of the cell's organelle, it falls in to the category of sub-organelles. Nucleolus is responsible for the production of ribosomes-the protein-making devices of the cell. Ribosomes are cytoplasmic granules composed of RNA and protein. A cell's endoplasmic reticulum (see chapter one of this topic) is attached to the nuclear envelope. 2. Nucleoplasm-liquid substance inside the nucleus which is similar to cell cytoplasm. Structural units of DNA and RNA (ribonucleic acid) and different enzymes are in nucleoplasm.
The nucleus is a vital part of the cell and without one a cell will die very quickly. The nucleus is enclosed in a membrane called the nuclear envelope. This membrane has nuclear pores that allow specific materials in and out of the cell. It also encloses the chromatin which holds all the cells chromosomes, the genetic material of the cell. 
Cell nuclei contain most of the cell's genetic material, organized as multiple long linear DNA molecules in complex with a large variety of proteins, such as histones, to form chromosomes. The genes within these chromosomes are the cell's nuclear genome. In mammalian cells, the average diameter of the nucleus is approximately 6 micrometres (µm), which occupies about 10% of the total cell volume. The viscous liquid within it is called nucleoplasm, and is similar in composition to the cytosol found outside the nucleus.
The cell nucleus contains the majority of the cell's genetic material in the form of multiple linear DNA molecules organized into structures called chromosomes. Each human cell contains roughly two meters of DNA. In mammalian cells, the average diameter of the nucleus is approximately 6 micrometres (µm), which occupies about 10% of the total cell volume. The viscous liquid within it is called nucleoplasm, and is similar in composition to the cytosol found outside the nucleus.
These structures are called the cell's organelles. According to the structure of a cell's organelle nucleus, all cells are divided into two main groups: prokaryotes and eukaryotes. This chapter looks at the structure of the most important cell organelle-the nucleus. A cell's endoplasmic reticulum (see chapter one of this topic) is attached to the nuclear envelope. 2. Nucleoplasm-liquid substance inside the nucleus which is similar to cell cytoplasm. Structural units of DNA and RNA (ribonucleic acid) and different enzymes are in nucleoplasm.
This organelle has two major functions: it stores the cell's hereditary material, or DNA, and it coordinates the cell's activities, which include growth, intermediary metabolism, protein synthesis, and reproduction (cell division). Only the cells of advanced organisms, known as eukaryotes, have a nucleus. Generally there is only one nucleus per cell, but there are exceptions, such as the cells of slime molds and the Siphonales group of algae. Simpler one-celled organisms (prokaryotes), like the bacteria and cyanobacteria, don't have a nucleus. In these organisms, all of the cell's information and administrative functions are dispersed throughout the cytoplasm. The spherical nucleus typically occupies about 10 percent of a eukaryotic cell's volume, making it one of the cell's most prominent features.
A human cell has genetic material contained in the cell nucleus (the nuclear genome) and in the mitochondria (the mitochondrial genome). In humans the nuclear genome is divided into 46 linear DNA molecules called chromosomes, including 22 homologous chromosome pairs and a pair of sex chromosomes. 1 The eukaryotic DNA is organized in one or more linear molecules, called chromosomes, which are associated with histone proteins. 2  All chromosomal DNA is stored in the cell nucleus, separated from the cytoplasm by a membrane. 3  Some eukaryotic organelles such as mitochondria also contain some DNA.
All cells have: 1  DNA-a cell's genetic information carrier. 2  In some cells DNA is in a separate cell structure called a nucleus and in others it just 'floats' in the cell's cytoplasm in the form of a nucleoid; 3  Membrane-the outer, thin, protective layer; 4  Cytoplasm-jelly-like matter inside the membrane. 1 DNA-a cell's genetic information carrier. 2  In some cells DNA is in a separate cell structure called a nucleus and in others it just 'floats' in the cell's cytoplasm in the form of a nucleoid; 3  Membrane-the outer, thin, protective layer;
This organelle has two major functions. It stores the cell's hereditary material, or DNA, and it coordinates the cell's activities, which include intermediary metabolism, growth, protein synthesis, and reproduction (cell division). Only the cells of advanced organisms, known as eukaryotes, have a nucleus. As the cell divides to become two cells, the chromosomes separate, giving each cell a complete copy of the genetic information contained in the chromatin. Nucleolus-The nucleolus is a membrane-less organelle within the nucleus that manufactures ribosomes, the cell's protein-producing structures.