A landslide, also known as a landslip, is a geological phenomenon that includes a wide range of ground movements. Rockfalls, deep failure of slopes and shallow debris flows were common. Landslides can occur in offshore, coastal and onshore environments. Although the action of gravity is the primary driving force for a landslide to occur, there are other contributing factors affecting the original slope stability. Landslide in which the sliding surface is located within the soil mantle or weathered bedrock (typically to a depth from few decimetres to some metres)is called a shallow landslide. They usually include debris slides, debris flow, and failures of road cut-slopes.
Landslides. A landslide is the rapid mass movement of soil, mud and/or rocks downhill due to the pull of gravity. Landslides are very common and occur in a variety of forms. Land may topple off in a big chunk, or slip down in bits. Landslide may be composed of mud or may contain rocks and other debris. Soil is therefore heaviest and most susceptible to the effects of gravity, when saturated. When large areas of soil become saturated on steep slopes, the pull of gravity causes the top layers of the soil to slide downhill, therefore resulting in a landslide.
Part of the reason for a landslide victory is sometimes a bandwagon effect, as a significant number of people may decide to vote for the party which is in the lead in the pre-election opinion polls, regardless of its politics. This map shows Ronald Reagan 's landslide victory in 1984. Landslide victory is an electoral victory in a political system, when one candidate or party receives an overwhelming majority of the votes or seats in the elected body, thus all but utterly eliminating the opponents.
Loma Verde Landslide. The Loma Verde landslide is large, deep-seated landslide in the mountains north of the Santa Clara River (plate 2). This block slide in Pliocene and Pleistocene very weakly cemented sandstone is 250 m long, 200 m wide, and about 20 m thick, which yields a volume of 1X10E6 m³ (fig. 10) .
There is no legal or constitutional definition of what a landslide election is, or how wide an electoral victory margin must be in order for a candidate to have won in a landslide. How Much a Landslide Election Is. One generally agreed upon measure of a landslide election is when the winning candidate beats his opponent or opponents by at least 15 percentage points in a popular vote count.
Under that scenario a landslide would occur when the winning candidate in a two-way election receives 58 percent of the vote, leaving his opponent with 42 percent. There are variations of the 15-point landslide definition. How Much a Landslide Election Is. One generally agreed upon measure of a landslide election is when the winning candidate beats his opponent or opponents by at least 15 percentage points in a popular vote count.
Introduction. The accompanying map is a preliminary digital version of Geological Survey Professional Paper 1183, Landslide Overview Map of the Conterminous United States, by Dorothy H. Radbruch-Hall, Roger B. Colton, William E. Davies, Ivo Lucchitta, Betty A. Skipp, and David J. Varnes, 1982. 
But political journalists have offered their own suggested guidelines for determining a landslide victory over the years. One generally agreed upon definition of an Electoral College landslide is a presidential election in which the winning candidate secures at least 375 or 70 percent of the electoral votes. How Much a Landslide Election Is. One generally agreed upon measure of a landslide election is when the winning candidate beats his opponent or opponents by at least 15 percentage points in a popular vote count.
A landslide or landslip are a natural disaster, something which is unfortunately unavoidable. Landslides can vary in size but usually they always involve a large ground movement. This can be things such as debris and rock failing. This means that with a large or even a small change, can cause a landslide. However, there are many things that contribute to a landslides including; 1  Erosion – if this occurs, even just slightly, can make some of the slope to fall in to oceans or rivers.