A money market account is a type of savings account offered by banks and credit unions just like regular savings accounts. The difference is that they usually pay higher interest, have higher minimum balance requirements (sometimes $1000-$­2500), and only allow three to six withdrawals per month. 
Unlike a certificate of deposit, a money market checking account gives you ready access to your cash. When you buy a CD, you agree to lock your money up for a set period of time. With a money market checking account, you do not have this restriction, and you can access your money whenever you need it. In addition to that liquidity, the money market checking account can provide income in the form of regular interest. The interest rates on money market accounts vary quite a bit, and the best way to get a top rate is to shop around as much as possible.
Money market account vs. checking account. By David McMillin • Bankrate.com. If you have your savings stashed in a money market account, chances are you're stuck with low interest rates. The good news: Bankrate's 2010 High-Yield Checking Study shows that there are higher interest rates waiting at banks that offer high-yield checking accounts. 
Money market accounts typically have a relatively high rate of interest and require a higher minimum balance (anywhere from $1,000 to $10,000 or $25,000) to earn interest or avoid monthly fees. Since the account is not considered a transaction account, it is subject to the regulations on savings accounts: only six withdrawal transactions to third parties are permitted per month under Regulation D.
Both money market accounts and savings accounts are considered non-transactional accounts and are subject to Regulation D which, among other things, limits the number of monthly withdrawals from the account to 6. The main difference with the money market account is that you are often issued checks. The difference in how the Federal Reserve classifies accounts is the primary way money market accounts differ from checking accounts. A checking account is considered a transactional account in that money is stored in it for short periods of time before being spent. A money market account on the other hand is considered non-transactional like a savings account and is subject to a different set of regulations. Transactional accounts are subject to Regulation Q which among other things prevents banks from paying interest on the account
An interest-bearing account that typically pays a higher interest rate than a savings account, and which provides the account holder with limited check-writing ability. A money market account thus offers the account holder benefits typical of both savings and checking accounts. This type of account is likely to require a higher balance than a savings account, and is FDIC insured. This restriction makes them less liquid than a checking account, but more liquid than bonds. Similar to the interest earned on checking and savings accounts, the interest earned on a money market account is taxable. Account holders do not have to buy shares in a money market account, as interest earned on deposits is similar to interest earned on checking and savings accounts
A money market account is a special type of savings account offered by banks and credit unions. Money market accounts are sometimes called money market deposit accounts or money market savings accounts. Like a regular savings account, a money market account at a bank is insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), while one at a credit union is insured by the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA).
Two accounts that are somewhat similar are money market accounts and savings accounts. Both are considered savings deposit accounts, but there are some differences between the ways the two operate. A money market account is, like a savings account, considered a non-transactional deposit account. The difference in how the Federal Reserve classifies accounts is the primary way money market accounts differ from checking accounts. A checking account is considered a transactional account in that money is stored in it for short periods of time before being spent. A money market account on the other hand is considered non-transactional like a savings account and is subject to a different set of regulations. Transactional accounts are subject to Regulation Q which among other things prevents banks from paying interest on the accounts