Internet related file type. inc file icon: The inc file extension is used for HTML server side Include files-PHP scripting language (part of PHP script file, generated webpage) and Microsoft ASP.NET a server-side Web application framework designed for Web development to produce dynamic Web pages. HTML with SSI.
Include file (Assembler language or Active Server). INC is a file extension for a text file used with several programming languages. INC stands for INClude files. INC files can contain declarations, headers, functions, or other data, and would be referenced by a program’s source code. 
In seconds, you will learn exactly what type of INC file you have, the software program associated with your file, the publisher who created it, its security safety status, and a variety of other useful information. Windows might tell you that you can't open it, or in the worst case, you might encounter a INC file related error message. Before you can open a INC file, you'll need to figure out what kind of file the INC file extension refers to.
In the sections above we have used the file extension .inc for included files. Notice that if a user tries to browse an INC file directly, its content will be displayed. If your included file contains confidential information or information you do not want any users to see, it is better to use an ASP extension.
What is inc file used in asp scripts Is that the essential part of our code???or not If we want to write our code without .inc file. Then is that possible??? Which is why I never use '.inc' as a file extention. I use '.asp', and I put '_' in front of the filename so that when I look at the files in the folder on the server, I can instantly see all of my include files at the top of the list.
Notes about the INC file extension: The INC file type is primarily associated with 'Active Server'. You are viewing 7 of 11 entries click this link to expand the remaining entries You are viewing 11 entries click this link to minimize to view 7 entries. 
How to convert file with extension INC: As far as we know, this .inc file type can't be converted to any other file format. This is usually the case of system, configuration, temporary, or data files containing data exclusive to only one software and used for its own purposes.
The .inc file extension is most commonly associated with text files that contain headers, declarations, functions and other data that is referenced by an application's source code. The .inc file extension is also used for Astro windows files, JAWS text files, Microsoft Backup incremental files, Pov-Ray files, Total Commander language files and Internet connection files.
These files can be used with Pascal, C/C++, Java, PHP and other programming languages. The .inc file extension is also used for Astro windows files, JAWS text files, Microsoft Backup incremental files, Pov-Ray files, Total Commander language files and Internet connection files.
Did someone email you a INC file and you're not sure how to open it? Maybe you have found a INC file on your computer and wondering what it's for? Windows might tell you that you can't open it, or in the worst case, you might encounter a INC file related error message. Before you can open a INC file, you'll need to figure out what kind of file the INC file extension refers to. Tip: Incorrect INC file association errors can be a symptom of other underlying issues within your Windows operating system.