Just because a corporation is domiciled in a particular state does not limit it to operating in only that state. For a corporation to operate in a state other than its home state, the corporation must follow the other state’s protocol to register as a “foreign” corporation that is doing business within that state. Finally, the choice of where to incorporate will determine the amount of state taxes paid by the corporation, and state tax rates vary greatly. The state of incorporation is the domicile of the corporation.
Corporate Domicile Law & Legal Definition. Corporate domicile refers to a place where a company’s affairs are discharged. It is also known as the legal home of a corporation because the place is considered by law as the centre of corporate affairs. Corporate domicile is a place where a company’s principal affairs of business are maintained. A corporation is considered a citizen of both its state of incorporation and the state of its principal place of business. Corporate domicile helps in ascertaining the legal status of a corporation.
Changing Domicile. If a company wishes to change its domicile, it is not an easy process. The company will need to follow internal procedures to make this decision, as it is a question that may need to be decided by shareholders depending on how the articles of incorporation and bylaws are written. Finally, the choice of where to incorporate will determine the amount of state taxes paid by the corporation, and state tax rates vary greatly. The state of incorporation is the domicile of the corporation.
A corporation’s place of domicile is equivalent to its place of incorporation. Recently, the case of Hertz Corp. v. Friend concluded that the principal place of business refers to the place where corporations' high level officers direct, control and coordinate the corporations' activities.. A person can remain domiciled in a jurisdiction even after they have left it, if they have maintained sufficient links with that jurisdiction or have not displayed an intention to leave permanently (i.e., if that person has moved to a different state, but has not yet formed an intention to remain there indefinitely).
state of domicile. n. the state in which a person has his/her permanent residence or intends to make his/her residence, as compared to where the person is living temporarily. Domicile depends on intent, location of a home where a person regularly sleeps, and some conduct. A corporation's state of domicile is the state where the corporation is incorporated. (See: domicile, resident). 1  Facebook.
Commercial Domicile Law & Legal Definition. Commercial domicile refers to a domicile acquired by a nonresident corporation or an entity for the purpose of conducting activities to permit taxation of the corporation’s property or activity located outside the bounds of the taxing state. 
Incorporation is the process by which a corporation is recognized as a separate legal entity under state law. To incorporate, the founders must draft articles of incorporation and file those with the relevant state agency – often the commerce department or Secretary of State – and pay any required filing fees. Finally, the choice of where to incorporate will determine the amount of state taxes paid by the corporation, and state tax rates vary greatly. The state of incorporation is the domicile of the corporation.
For a small business such as a retail store, the store itself is the business domicile, while for a multinational company, the domicile is determined by figuring out which location serves as the principle place of business or hub for the business. The location of a business domicile impacts its tax liability. For example, if a company is headquartered in a major city, it may have very high taxes because it pays national, regional, and local taxes.
For companies, the domicile is the site where the business is headquartered, where decisions about the business are made, and where people would go if they wished to do business with the company in question. The location of a business domicile impacts its tax liability. For example, if a company is headquartered in a major city, it may have very high taxes because it pays national, regional, and local taxes.