Before you spend money on home plans for a house you can’t afford, I’ll show you how you can determine what you can afford. The basic cost to build a house is determined by the size (square footage of living area), design (shape), and the quality & quantity of the materials (and the builder’s profit & overhead). The cost to build a house is determined by the size (square footage of living area), design (shape, etc.), the quality & quantity of the materials used and the builder’s profit.
For the purpose of this discussion we will look at the cost of constructing a traditional ranch-style home. According to home industry statistics, the size of the average ranch house is 2500 square feet which assumes a footprint of approximately 40'x60 '. 1 The above figures place this construction at a $173 per square foot cost, though national average stands between $125 to $175 for project managers.
1 With mid-range materials, a masonry foundation with full basement, high-efficiency doors and windows, full appliances, and turnkey finishing the house would cost an average of $433,500 to complete. 1 The above figures place this construction at a $173 per square foot cost, though national average stands between $125 to $175 for project managers.
Sponsored by: Ranch-style homes are great starter homes, owing to their cost-effective construction. Ranch home plans, or ramblers as they are sometimes called, are usually one story, though they may have a finished basement, and they are wider then they are deep. 
1. Price per square foot is not always the best way to determine how much a home is worth. 2. The cost to build a home is effected by the quality of materials and construction. 3. Two story homes often cost less per square foot than a single story ranch style home. 4. The cost to build a home is impacted by shape. Another money saving option is to keep the shape of the house square in shape is to build it with narrower trusses. A 24 foot truss is cheaper than a 32 foot truss, and anything over 32 foot is very costly and may not be as strong as a narrower house. It costs more to build a home that is L shaped.
The building of any ranch-style home would never be a DIY project and requires a knowledgeable contractor, an architect, a team of subcontractors, and a cooperative owner to get the job done in a single calendar year. 1 The above figures place this construction at a $173 per square foot cost, though national average stands between $125 to $175 for project managers.
Knowledge (information) is power. When you know the cost of building a home before you even decide whether to build or not, you are in a better position to decide what size, style, and quality of home you can afford, based on your budget of course, and you are also in a better position to later bargain with a builder. The cost to build a house is determined by the size (square footage of living area), design (shape, etc.), the quality & quantity of the materials used and the builder’s profit.
According to Hawkins Research, Inc., the typical costs for the building of a ranch of 2500 square feet would include: 1  With mid-range materials, a masonry foundation with full basement, high-efficiency doors and windows, full appliances, and turnkey finishing the house would cost an average of $433,500 to complete. 1 The above figures place this construction at a $173 per square foot cost, though national average stands between $125 to $175 for project managers.
Larger new houses cost more to build than smaller houses but larger homes generally cost less per square foot than smaller homes. Ranch style (single story) homes cost more per square foot than 2 story homes of the same size and quality. The cost to build a house is determined by the size (square footage of living area), design (shape, etc.), the quality & quantity of the materials used and the builder’s profit.