Best Answer: I am Canadian and I live in Denmark and it has its good and bad points. I have been to Norway but not Sweden yet although it is about 25 minutes away. Scandinavia is nice and I would recommend coming for a year to see what you think. Norway and Sweden a lot like Canada in how they look and just how people are but with better social systems. Housing is really expensive in all these countries but I think Sweden is better then Norway and Denmark for that.
I've lived in Norway, Sweden and the UK. Swedish prices are similar to the UK, although it's more difficult to find very cheap accommodation/food. If you plan to drink in Sweden though, it's about 2x as expensive as the UK. London is definitely more expensive in general than Stockholm. Norway is very expensive. Even budget accommodation here is more expensive than most countries (look for hostels and gjestehus), and a simple hotel room is £100+. My food budget here is 2-3x what it was in the UK.
The climate is best in denmark or south sweden, but if some snow (in the winters) isn't a problem it's probably more beautiful and exotic in Norway (near the coast), North of Sweden or in Finland. So the choice is really up to you and your preferences. Scandinavia is nice and I would recommend coming for a year to see what you think. Norway and Sweden a lot like Canada in how they look and just how people are but with better social systems. Housing is really expensive in all these countries but I think Sweden is better then Norway and Denmark for that.
; Swedish: Finland [ˈfɪnland]), officially the Republic of Finland, is a Nordic country in Northern Europe bordered by Sweden to the west, Norway to the north, and Russia to the east; Estonia lies to the south across the Gulf of Finland. 
The weather is similar in all four countries, however if you prefer a more scenic rural life, Finland or Norway would be a better choice, while if you preger a more urban life, both Copenhagen and Stockholm are relatively large cities with more to do. However, all countries have very expensive lifestyles. Scandinavia is nice and I would recommend coming for a year to see what you think. Norway and Sweden a lot like Canada in how they look and just how people are but with better social systems. Housing is really expensive in all these countries but I think Sweden is better then Norway and Denmark for that.
Alcohol is very expensive in Finland compared to most countries (though not to its Nordic neighbours Sweden and Norway), although low-cost Estonia 's entry to the EU has forced the government to cut alcohol taxes a little. You can also use a bus from Sweden or Norway to Finland. 1  Haparanda in Norrbotnia area of Sweden has bus connections to Tornio, Kemi and Oulu. 2  Eskelisen Lapinlinjat offers bus connections from northern parts of Norway, for example Tromsoe.  tromsø
Scantours. Scantours offers Scandinavian Panorama, a 15-day tour of Denmark, Norway, Sweden and Finland. It starts with sightseeing in Copenhagen and a meal at Tivoli Gardens. A ferrythen takes you to Oslo, where you visit a polar exploration ship and the Vigeland Sculpture Park. 
Report Abuse. Norway is indeed the most expensive of these countries, then second expensive is Finland (because of the euro we use). Sweden is the cheapest. As for things to see, Norway has the best natural landscapes, Finland the second best. London is definitely more expensive in general than Stockholm. Norway is very expensive. Even budget accommodation here is more expensive than most countries (look for hostels and gjestehus), and a simple hotel room is £100+. My food budget here is 2-3x what it was in the UK.
UTC +2. Finland (Finnish: Suomi, Swedish: Finland) is in Northern Europe and has borders with Russia to the east, Norway to the north, and Sweden to the west. Finland is a thoroughly modern welfare state with well-planned and comfortable small towns and cities, but still offers vast areas of unspoiled nature. You can also use a bus from Sweden or Norway to Finland. 1  Haparanda in Norrbotnia area of Sweden has bus connections to Tornio, Kemi and Oulu. 2  Eskelisen Lapinlinjat offers bus connections from northern parts of Norway, for example Tromsoe.  tromsø