Feed a completely balanced diet! If your horse has poor quality hooves it is likely its diet is missing something and it probably isn't biotin. Steps to achieving good quality hooves are: 1  Balance your horse's diet using FeedXL and feed that balanced diet. 2  It will be 3 to 6 months before you see a positive effect. Therefore a horse on a forage based diet with a healthy gut should not need to be supplemented with biotin. BUT there are plenty of horses on this type of diet with poor quality hooves.
Biotin-a feed supplement for healthy hoof growth. Biotin is a popular equine feed supplement that is often recommended by farriers as a way to improve the quality of the horse's hoof and as a treatment for dry cracked hooves. This advice is given because the vitamin Biotin is a sulphur which contains B vitamins, which help in maintaining good growth of the hoof horn. Added a horse or pony's feed over a period of months a supplement containing biotin can improve the problem of dry, cracked, brittle or generally bad feet.
When you continue to add biotin supplements to the feed of the horses, after a few months, the hooves begin to heal and the problem of dry, cracked and painful hooves becomes history. It is not uncommon for horses or ponies to pull off their shoes. Biotin for Horses. Biotin for horses is an extremely popular feed supplement. Biotin supplement for horses is recommended by most experienced veterinarians. Biotin helps improve the strength and quality of the hooves of horses. It is also often used as a special treatment for treating dry and cracked hoov
Although results of studies show the amount of biotin needed by a horse is unclear-the recommended daily dose of Biotin is 15 - 20 mg per day-this is the amount generally recognised as being needed to promote quality and healthy horn. This advice is given because the vitamin Biotin is a sulphur which contains B vitamins, which help in maintaining good growth of the hoof horn. Added a horse or pony's feed over a period of months a supplement containing biotin can improve the problem of dry, cracked, brittle or generally bad feet.
With that said, using a therapeutic amount of biotin has a positive effect on hoof integrity in some horses. The research studies that have shown positive results on hoof quality with biotin supplementation used 15-20 mg biotin per day. Most hoof supplements on the market offer 6-30 mg per day. Because you are not buying the biotin in a commercial supplement, I would recommend making sure the biotin you have is d-biotin, which is the only active isomer. Also, biotin has a fairly short shelf life and should be used within six months of purchase.
Biotin, being a water-soluble vitamin, is not stored by a horse for very long. Any of the vitamin not used by the body cells will be passed out in the urine. So-if you have a horse with poor feet, a biotin vitamin supplement should be given daily in its feed. This advice is given because the vitamin Biotin is a sulphur which contains B vitamins, which help in maintaining good growth of the hoof horn. Added a horse or pony's feed over a period of months a supplement containing biotin can improve the problem of dry, cracked, brittle or generally bad feet.
Biotin is naturally available to your horse. Your horse has access to two sources of natural biotin. Biotin is contained in most feeds and forages, particularly green fresh forages. In addition, the bacteria in a healthy horse's gut produce biotin which is made available to the horse. Therefore a horse on a forage based diet with a healthy gut should not need to be supplemented with biotin. BUT there are plenty of horses on this type of diet with poor quality hooves.