The smooth endoplasmic reticulum lacks ribosomes and functions in lipid metabolism, carbohydrate metabolism, and detoxification of drugs. The smooth ER is especially abundant in mammalian liver and gonad cells. The lacy membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum were first seen in 1945 using electron microscopy. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum (abbreviated SER) has functions in several metabolic processes. It synthesizes lipids, phospholipids, and steroids. Cells which secrete these products, such as those in the testes, ovaries, and sebaceous glands have an abundance of smooth endoplasmic reticulum.
Smooth endoplasmic reticulum is found in a variety of cell types (both animal and plant), and it serves different functions in each. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum also contains the enzyme glucose-6-phosphatase, which converts glucose-6-phosphate to glucose, a step in gluconeogenesis. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum (abbreviated SER) has functions in several metabolic processes. It synthesizes lipids, phospholipids, and steroids. Cells which secrete these products, such as those in the testes, ovaries, and sebaceous glands have an abundance of smooth endoplasmic reticulum.
Smooth Endoplasmic Reticulum Function. The endoplasmic reticulum is composed of a network of smooth tubules and sac-like structures. The endoplasmic reticulum that does not have ribosomes attached to its surface, is known as smooth endoplasmic reticulum. Another type of endoplasmic reticulum is sarcoplasmic reticulum, which is a type of specialized SER that can be found in smooth, as well as striated muscles. SER is an important organelle found in both animal and plant cells, where it performs some specialized functions.
The endoplasmic reticulum is a network of tubules and flattened sacs that serve a variety of functions in the cell. There are two regions of the ER that differ in both structure and function. One region is called rough ER because it has ribosomes attached to the cytoplasmic side of the membrane. In liver cells the smooth ER produces enzymes that help to detoxify certain compounds. In muscles the smooth ER assists in the contraction of muscle cells, and in brain cells it synthesizes male and female hormones. The endoplasmic reticulum is only one component of a cell.
The function of the endoplasmic reticulum is to transport chemicals between and within cells. It also provides a large surface area for the organization of chemical reactions and synthesis. Two patterns are found in the cell, the smooth endoplasmic reticulum and the rough endoplasmic reticulum. Smooth endoplasmic reticulum is found in a variety of cell types (both animal and plant), and it serves different functions in each. The Smooth ER also contains the enzyme glucose-6-phosphatase, which converts glucose-6-phosphate to glucose, a step in gluconeogenesis
Definition of the Smooth ER. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum, or smooth ER, is an organelle found in both animal cells and plant cells. An organelle is a sub-unit within a cell that has a specialized function. The main function of the smooth ER is to make cellular products like hormones and lipids
The general structure of the endoplasmic reticulum is a network of membranes called cisternae. These sac-like structures are held together by the cytoskeleton. The phospholipid membrane encloses a space, the cisternal space (or lumen), which is continuous with the perinuclear space but separate from the cytosol. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum (abbreviated SER) has functions in several metabolic processes. It synthesizes lipids, phospholipids, and steroids. Cells which secrete these products, such as those in the testes, ovaries, and sebaceous glands have an abundance of smooth endoplasmic reticulum.