Phylogenetic Species Concept Here, species is defined as the smallest group of individuals with a common ancestor, forming a single branch of the “tree of life”. This compares numerous characteristics, esp. morphology and molecular sequences, with those of other organisms. 
The morphological species concept differentiates species by their physical traits, basically. The biological species concept defines a species as generally organisms that bree … d with others of the same species; rather a genetic isolation concept. The phylogenetic concept is based on evolutionary relationships and is the concept used by cladists. 12 people found this useful.
Biological Species Concept. The biological species concept defines a species as members of populations that actually or potentially interbreed in nature, not according to similarity of appearance. Although appearance is helpful in identifying species, it does not define species. Appearance isnt everything. 
Species Concepts and the Definition of Species. 1) Biological species concept: Species are groups of actually or potentially interbreeding natural populations, which are reproductively isolated from other such groups (Mayr, 1940). 2) Cladistic species concept: A species is a set of organisms (an evolutionary lineage) between two branch points or between one branch point and an extinction event or a modern population (Ridley 1993).
The biological species concept gives an explanation of how species form (speciation). A biological species is a group of individuals which can breed together (panmixia). However, they cannot breed with other groups. In other words, the group is reproductively isolated from other groups.
The major limitation to the morphological concept of species is that a. | there may be a great deal of phenotypic variability in a species. / b. | organisms that actually c … an interbreed may have very different physical characteristics. The biological species concept defines a species as generally organisms that bree … d with others of the same species; rather a genetic isolation concept. The phylogenetic concept is based on evolutionary relationships and is the concept used by cladists. 12 people found this useful.
The morphological species concept is called  morphological  because the idea is based less upon molecular-or sequence-based approaches to systematics than one might expect from a modern perspective. Nevertheless, once upon a time organisms were distinguished primarily in terms of their morphology. The morphological species concept is applicable particularly to situations in which the potential for mating along with postzygotic barriers to reproduction – which together define the biological species concept – cannot easily be determined.
According to the ecological species concept, the more similar two organisms are then the more likely that their needs will overlap, the more likely they will compete over resources such as food and shelter, and therefore the more likely that they are members of the same species. 
A more subjective classification. Organisms are classified in the same species if they appear identical by morphological (anatomical) criteria. This is used when species do not reproduce sexually, some are known only from fossils.