The five classes of cnidarians. Corals, sea anemones and jellyfish are the most familiar of the cnidarians. Two lesser-known groups are tiny moss-like creatures called hydroids and the ocean-going siphonophores. Siphonophores are colonies of highly specialised individuals. Previous Short Story Next.
1 Animals of the Phylum Cnidaria The phylum Cnidaria includes animals such as corals, jellyfish, and sea anemones. 2  All Cnidarians are aquatic and carnivorous, and they occur in two basic body shapes: polyps,…. 3  Community Collaboration in Reiki Practice Reiki is a stress-reduction technique that originates from Japan. Share to: cnidarians, such as jelly fish, sea anemones, hydra, and corals, have tentacles surrounding their mouth. they are a hollow-bodied animal with two celled layers that are organ … ized into tissues. the inner layer forms a digestive cavity where food is broken down. A jelly fish.
Cnidaria is one of the more primitive animal phyla. It includes aquatic organisms such as jellyfish, sea anemones, corals, and hydras. Most cnidarians are marine, although a few, such as the well-known hydra, are freshwater species. Cnidaria A phylum that comprises the sea anemones, jellyfish, and corals, and which is known from the late Precambrian. Cnidarians are basically radially symmetrical and have tentacles. The body contains a gastrovascular cavity and the body wall is diploblastic.
Aurelia, or Moon Jellies, by the reefs off Lizard Island, Australia. Photo by Chris Meyer. Scyphozoans include most of the jellyfish familiar to beach-goers; other similar organisms are classified in the Hydrozoa and Cubozoa, two other groups of cnidarians. True jellyfish are graceful, and sometimes deadly creatures. Their stings may cause skin rashes, muscle cramps, or even death. 
Hydrozoa, the most diverse group with siphonophores, hydroids, fire corals, and many medusae; and. Scyphozoa, the true jellyfish. Click on the buttons below to learn more about Cnidaria. Visit the Cnidaria WWW Server for information and links dealing with all manner of cnidarians. Visit the home page of the Hydrozoan Society. Yet, these diverse animals are all armed with stinging cells called nematocysts. Cnidarians are united based on the presumption that their nematocysts have been inherited from a single common ancestor. The name Cnidaria comes from the Greek word cnidos, which means stinging nettle.
Cnidarians are classified into four main groups: non-moving (sessile) Anthozoa (sea anemones, corals, sea pens); Cubozoa (box jellies);swimming Scyphozoa (jellyfish); and Hydrozoa, a broad group that includes all the freshwater cnidarians as well as many marine forms. There are about 10, 000 species of Cnidarians. Cnidaria is a phylum containing over 9,000 species found only in aquatic and mostly marine environments. All cnidarians have radial symmetrical. There are two major body forms among the Cnidaria-the polyp and the medusa. Sea anemones and corals have the polyp form, while jellyfish are typical medusae.
Jellyfish, corals, and other stingers. Cnidarians are incredibly diverse in form, as evidenced by colonial siphonophores, massive medusae and corals, feathery hydroids, and box jellies with complex eyes. Yet, these diverse animals are all armed with stinging cells called nematocysts. Cnidarians are united based on the presumption that their nematocysts have been inherited from a single common ancestor. The name Cnidaria comes from the Greek word cnidos, which means stinging nettle.
Cnidarians, members of phylum Cnidaria, are among the simplest and most basal animals, splitting off from other phyla even before sponges did, as was discovered by molecular studies in 2008. They are among the earliest animal fossils with recognizable affinity to modern groups. Like other members of this phyla, corals can reproduce either asexually, by budding, or sexually, by releasing sperm into the water. These organisms have two major body forms: the polyp, which is a stalk with cnidocytes at its top, or the medusa, which is the iconic shape of the jellyfish.
The four main cnidarian groups (or classes) are Anthozoa (anemones, corals, etc.), Scyphozoa (jellyfish), Staurozoa (stalked jellyfish), Cubozoa (box jellies), Hydrozoa (Obelia, Portuguese Man o' War, Aequorea, etc.), and Polypodiozoa, which includes a single species, Polypodium hydriforme, a small parasite. Like other members of this phyla, corals can reproduce either asexually, by budding, or sexually, by releasing sperm into the water. These organisms have two major body forms: the polyp, which is a stalk with cnidocytes at its top, or the medusa, which is the iconic shape of the jellyfish.