Melbourne Climate, Temperature & Rainfall. Melbourne enjoys a temperate climate with a cool winter. Average minimum temperatures in the winter months of June through to August are 6-7 degrees Celcius. The summer season is from December through to February. Melbourne enjoys a temperate climate with a cool winter. Average minimum temperatures in the winter months of June through to August are 6-7 degrees Celcius
Melbourne, located on Central Florida's East Coast, has an overall average high temperature of 81° and an average low of 63°. The highest recorded temperature in Melbourne was 102° in 1980 and the lowest recorded temperature was a very 17° in 1977. On average Melbourne's warmest month is July and January is the average coolest month.
Temperatures average 25°C in summer and 14°C in winter. Rainfall is highest from May to October. Here you will find some information on temperature, rainfall and seasonal activities to help you plan your holiday in Melbourne. Weather in Australia. Weather in Melbourne. Victoria's climate is marked by a range of different climate zones, from the hot, dry regions of the northwest to the alpine snowfields in the northeast. Melbourne has a reputation for its changeable weather, often referred to as having ‘four seasons in one day'.
Melbourne's top temperatures are usually in January and February, when it is mostly dry and hot with averages ranging from 15 - 26°C. The annual average rainfall for Melbourne is around 600mm. June and July are the coldest months, and October is the wettest. Weather in Australia. Weather in Melbourne. Victoria's climate is marked by a range of different climate zones, from the hot, dry regions of the northwest to the alpine snowfields in the northeast. Melbourne has a reputation for its changeable weather, often referred to as having ‘four seasons in one day'.
In Winter daily average temperatures can drop to 7°C with an average high of 14°C. It is a good time for indoor activities and to explore Melbourne's many art galleries and performance venues. Catch a performance at the Melbourne Arts Centre at Southbank. Weather in Australia. Weather in Melbourne. Victoria's climate is marked by a range of different climate zones, from the hot, dry regions of the northwest to the alpine snowfields in the northeast. Melbourne has a reputation for its changeable weather, often referred to as having ‘four seasons in one day'.
Melbourne: Annual Weather Averages. January is the hottest month in Melbourne with an average temperature of 21°C (70°F) and the coldest is July at 10°C (50°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 11 in January. The wettest month is May with an average of 68mm of rain. 
As far as temperatures go, not surprisingly Darwin is Australia's hottest city and Canberra the coldest. Darwin's year round average temperature range is 23°C at night and 32°C during the day. What may be surprising is that Darwin's highest maximum of 38.9°C is lower than all other capital cities top temperatures. Even normally mild Hobart has hit over 40°C.
Perth has recorded the hottest temperature of any capital, with a scorching 46.2°C, closely followed by Melbourne's top of 45.6°C and Sydney's 45.3°C. In stark contrast, temperatures in Canberra have fallen to as low as -10.0°C, with temperatures of 0°C occurring on an average of 64 nights every year. Melbourne (-2.8°C), Hobart (-2.8°C), Adelaide (-0.4°C) and Perth (0.0 C) are the only other Australian capitals to have recorded a temperature of 0°C or below. Darwin's year round average temperature range is 23°C at night and 32°C during the day. What may be surprising is that Darwin's highest maximum of 38.9°C is lower than all other capital cities top temperatures. Even normally mild Hobart has hit over 40°C.
Daytime spring temperatures average out at between 17 and 20°C, but a high of 40°C has been recorded in November, and a low of -0.5 in September, so you can see where the city gets its weather reputation! Spring is a very sporting time in Melbourne, with a particular emphasis on Australian rules football in October. Melbourne in the Winter. Melbourne is one of the few Australian state capitals which ever gets cold in the sense that most of us would recognise the word. June, July and August see average daytime temperatures of around 13°C, but nights can be positively chilly, with dips below freezing not unknown.