Carbohydrates-Chemical Structure. Carbohydrates consist of the elements carbon (C), hydrogen (H) and oxygen (O) with a ratio of hydrogen twice that of carbon and oxygen. Carbohydrates include sugars, starches, cellulose and many other compounds found in living organisms. In their basic form, carbohydrates are simple sugars or monosaccharides. These simple sugars can combine with each other to form more complex carbohydrates. The combination of two simple sugars is a disaccharide.
The empirical or simplest formula of any carbohydrate is (CH2O)n. This formula looks like carbon water just as carbohydrate suggests hydrated or watered carbon. The formula tells us that all carbohydrates are made of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen atoms in a 1:2:1 ratio. The chemical formula indicates how many atoms, and of what type, are in the chemical. For example, the chemical formula of water, H2O, shows that there are two hydrogen, and o … ne oxygen, atoms in the molecule.
The chemical elements of carbohydrates is oxygen, hydrogen and  carbon. Carbohydrates are a group of organic compounds such as  sugar, cellulose and starch, that occur in li … ving tissues and  foods. A typical example is glucose, a  carbohydrate whose chemical formula is C6H12O6 1  … . The Chemical Composition of the Solar System As of 2010, scientists had discovered 118 different chemical elements. 2  Of those 118 different elements, only 98 were found naturally occurring on Earth. 3  However, the vast maj….
Carbohydrates are one of the four major classes of organic compounds in living cells. They are produced during photosynthesis and are the main sources of energy for plants and animals. The term carbohydrate is used when referring to a saccharide or sugar and its derivatives. 
The chemical elements, or atoms, that make up carbohydrate are  hydrogen, oxygen, and carbon. A typical example is glucose, a  carbohydrate whose chemical formula is C6H12O6 1  … . The Chemical Composition of the Solar System As of 2010, scientists had discovered 118 different chemical elements. 2  Of those 118 different elements, only 98 were found naturally occurring on Earth. 3  However, the vast maj….
Carbohydrates are important macromolecules that consist of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen in a 1:2:1 ratio (can be written as C n (H 2 O) n). Carbohydrates are organic compounds organized in the form of aldehydes or ketones with multiple hydroxyl groups coming off the carbon chain. 
Carbohydrates Carbohydrates (also called saccharides) are molecular compounds made from just three elements: carbon, hydrogen and oxygen. Monosaccharides (e.g. glucose) and disaccharides (e.g. sucrose) are relatively small molecules. They are often called sugars. Other carbohydrate molecules are very large (polysaccharides such as starch and cellulose). Carbohydrates are: 1  a source of energy for the body e.g. glucose and a store of energy, e.g. starch in plants. 2  building blocks for polysaccharides (giant carbohydrates), e.g. cellulose in plants and glycogen in the human body. 3  components of other molecules eg DNA, RNA, glycolipids, glycoproteins, ATP
Monosaccharides are the simplest carbohydrates in that they cannot be hydrolyzed to smaller carbohydrates. They are aldehydes or ketones with two or more hydroxyl groups. The general chemical formula of an unmodified monosaccharide is (C•H 2 O) n, literally a carbon hydrate.. Monosaccharides are important fuel molecules as well as building blocks for nucleic acids. The smallest monosaccharides, for which n=3, are dihydroxyacetone and D-and L-glyceraldehydes. While the scientific nomenclature of carbohydrates is complex, the names of the monosaccharides and disaccharides very often end in the suffix-ose. For example, grape sugar is the monosaccharide glucose, cane sugar is the disaccharide sucrose and milk sugar is the disaccharide lactose (see illustration).
Carbohydrates. Carbohydrates are organic compounds that are organized as ring structures and are always composed of the elements carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. Carbohydrates are truly hydrates of carbon because the ratio of hydrogen atoms to oxygen atoms is always nearly 2:1, as in H 2 O. They also have many functions. 