Laminitis. Laminitis is an extremely painful condition of the feet in which there is inflammation and weakening of the sensitive tissues (laminae) that bond the pedal bone (the main bone within the hoof) to the hoof wall and it can affect any horse, pony, donkey or their hybrids. 
Laminitis is a disease that affects the feet of hooved animals (ungulates) and it is found mostly in horses and cattle. Clinical signs include foot tenderness progressing to inability to walk, increased digital pulses, and increased temperature in the hooves. 
LAMINITIS Laminitis is a common but still incompletely understood condition which causes varying degrees of foot pain, from the slightly pottery pony to severe life-threatening lameness. Owners often underestimate its potential to cause long term unsoundness. 
Laminitis in horses (also know as horse founder) is becoming a very common condition these days, mostly due to the lush pastures that more and more horses and ponies are being grazed on. Laminitis in horses is referred to as acute when it is in the early stages and chronic when it has been present for a long time. The photo to the left shows a slice through the corium and laminae-the corium is on the bottom side of the photo and the laminae on the top.
Laminitis is inflammation of the laminae, the velcro-like connections between the pedal/coffin bone and the hoof, causing pain and lameness. 
Laminitis is a condition of the foot that can become very painful in horses. It is when the coffin bone and the inner hoof wall begin to separate from each other. The coffin bone is attached to the hoof wall by two interlocking layers of connecting tissues called laminae. Causes of Laminitis. There are many causes of Horse Laminitis that have been identified. The most common cause is the sudden and excessive ingestion of non-structural carbohydrates (i.e. sugars and starches). This is where a horse eats too much grain or lush grass and cannot digest all of the carbohydrates.
Laminitis is a painful inflammatory condition of the tissues (laminae) that bond the hoof wall to the pedal (coffin) bone in the horses hoof. It can affect any horse, of any age or sex, at any time of the year. Laminitis is a serious, crippling disease of horses, ponies and donkeys. Laminitis is one of the most serious, crippling diseases of horses, ponies and donkeys. Severe and recurring cases of laminitis can reduce a horse's usefulness or result in the horse being destroyed to prevent further suffering.
Share. Views: 45750. Laminitis (also termed founder) is inflammation of the laminae of the foot-the soft tissue structures that attach the coffin or pedal bone of the foot to the hoof wall. The inflammation and damage to the laminae causes extreme pain and leads to instability of the coffin bone in the hoof. In more severe cases it can lead to complete separation of and rotation of the pedal bone within the hoof wall. Laminitis is a crippling condition which can be fatal in severe cases.
Introduction. Laminitis is one of the most common causes of lameness and disability of horses and ponies in this country. This article describes some of the gross pathological changes, recommended radiographic technique and aims to provide some practical advice on treatment. Terminology. 