2. Start Cow's Milk Gradually. You've heard of baby steps - in this case, it's baby sips.. Introducing milk gradually to a child who's used to breast milk or formula can help her tummy and taste buds become accustomed to the new beverage. Introduce it slowly, advises Callie R., a mom in Kansas. Try replacing one cup of formula with a cup of milk. Or cut it half and half. To help make your bub's transition smooth and safe, we've gathered Circle of Moms members' top tips on incorporating cow's milk into a baby's diet—from the American Academy of Pediatrics recommendations on age and type of milk, to advice about allergy symptoms, to tricks for babies who refuse cow's milk.
Familiarity with a sippy cup can ease the transition to using one instead of a bottle. At around age 12 months, babies no longer need the nutrients found exclusively in formula. When your baby reaches her first birthday, you can begin offering your little one whole cow's milk. For example, if your baby normally takes four bottles a day, replace the second one with warmed whole milk to start and then the third, working your way up to the point when you are giving her just whole milk. Step 3. Begin transitioning your baby to a sippy cup with whole milk in place
It is easier to make the transition from formula or breast milk to whole milk by slowly adding the milk to the formula/breast milk. For example, offer your baby a sippy cup or a bottle with 3/4 formula/breast milk and 1/4 milk. Offer this mix for about 1 week and then offer 1/2 formula/breast milk and 1/2 milk for another week. At or around “week 3″ you should be at a 3/4 milk and 1/4 formula/breast milk mix. I have also found it easier to make the transition by using a “special” cup. Purchase a new and colorful cup and make a big fuss over it; but do not make a fuss about the milk, just fuss over the cup. If your little one is still on a bottle, buy him a special bottle.
Mix whole milk in your baby's formula over a period of few days, increasing the ratios each day or every few days, depending how your baby responds to the whole milk. For example, you can start the transition by giving her 6 ounces of formula with 2 ounces of whole milk. For example, if your baby normally takes four bottles a day, replace the second one with warmed whole milk to start and then the third, working your way up to the point when you are giving her just whole milk. Step 3. Begin transitioning your baby to a sippy cup with whole milk in place of a bottle.
Next, shift the ratio to 4 ounces of formula with 4 ounces of whole milk, and then to 2 ounces of formula with 6 ounces of whole milk. Finally, you can offer her pure whole milk. This gradual transition may reduce her resistance and ease the transition, according to the Fisher-Price website. For example, if your baby normally takes four bottles a day, replace the second one with warmed whole milk to start and then the third, working your way up to the point when you are giving her just whole milk. Step 3. Begin transitioning your baby to a sippy cup with whole milk in place of a bottle.
Here’s my tip for the easiest transition from formula to whole milk: At or after her first birthday, start mixing formula with whole milk. For instance if she is taking a 6 ounce bottle of formula, mix 5 ounces of formula with 1 ounce of whole milk. This will be her “milk” for that day. The next day, mix 4 ounces of formula with 2 ounces of milk. Each day continue increasing the amount of whole milk by one ounce and decrease the amount of formula by one ounce. Continue on in this way until she is completely on
A: On one hand, it seems that you want to transition your toddler from milk to formula. On the other hand, you want to transition your toddler from a bottle to a cup. In a perfect world, you’d both wake up one day and your child would forgo her usual bottles of formula for cups of milk and water. Although the transitions from bottle to cup and formula to milk may take days, weeks or months, you can help ease the transitions and promote healthful habits by gently encouraging your toddler (without force) and speaking positively (with no pressure) during the process.
Instructions. Mix 2 oz. of whole milk with 6 oz. of formula for your baby's first introduction to milk. Offer it in his favorite sippy cup the same as you do formula each time you give him a drink and he won't notice the difference. Often, whole milk alone is too strange a taste difference for a little one, and making the switch gradually will ease the stress of introducing a new drink. Add milk to the formula in a 50-50 mix the second day (or third day if your little one balks at the taste). Repeat the feeding process as before. Change the milk-formula offering to all whole milk and no formula on the third day as long as your baby has not complained about the tast
You can transition from formula to the soy milk in the exact same way you would with milk. Start with 3/4 formula to 1/4 soy milk then after a week or two depending on how well he is getting used to it move up to 1/2 & 1/2 for a while and then 1/4 & 3/4 for a while until you are at complete soy milk. 