The ZFS file system is a revolutionary new file system that fundamentally changes the way file systems are administered, with features and benefits not found in any other file system available today.
ZFS is an advanced, modern filesystem that was specifically designed to provide features not available in traditional UNIX filesystems. It was originally developed at Sun with the intent to open source the filesystem so that it could be ported to other operating systems.
For ZFS, data integrity is achieved by using a (Fletcher-based) checksum or a (SHA-256) hash throughout the file system tree. Each block of data is checksummed and the checksum value is then saved in the pointer to that block—rather than at the actual block itself.
The ZFS pooled storage model eliminates the concept of volumes and the associated problems of partitions, provisioning and stranded storage by enabling thousands of file systems to draw from a common storage pool, using only as much space as it actually needs.
Instead of forcing you to create virtualized volumes, ZFS aggregates devices into a storage pool. The storage pool describes the physical characteristics of the storage (device layout, data redundancy, and so on) and acts as an arbitrary data store from which file systems can be created.
After acquiring Sun in 2010, Oracle Corp. discontinued work on open source ZFS. The company trademarked the name ZFS and turned ZFS into its proprietary root file system for Oracle Solaris, Oracle's ZFS Storage Appliances, mainframe storage (VSM) and other Oracle technologies. Oracle continues to develop and add features to its proprietary ZFS.
With a transactional file system, data is managed using copy on write semantics. Data is never overwritten, and any sequence of operations is either entirely committed or entirely ignored. Thus, the file system can never be corrupted through accidental loss of power or a system crash.
ZFS is a transactional, Copy-On-Write filesystem. For each write request, a copy is made of the associated disk block(s) and all changes are made to the copy rather than to the original block(s). Once the write is complete, all block pointers are changed to point to the new copy.
ZFS Snapshots. A snapshot is a read-only copy of a file system or volume. Snapshots can be created quickly and easily. Initially, snapshots consume no additional disk space within the pool. As data within the active dataset changes, the snapshot consumes disk space by continuing to reference the old data.