Figure 2: Mechanism of enzymes 8 Extracellular enzymes in bioremediation:: Extracellular enzymes in bioremediation: Extracellular enzymes refer to those enzymes that are either secreted by the microbes, such as white rot fungi or those that enter the aqueous phase during an aerobic submerged fermentation process. Other extracellular enzymes used in bioremediation: Case studies Bioremediation of Textile Effluent using Enzymes Enzymes can act on specific recalcitrant pollutants to remove them by precipitation or transformation to other products.
Abstract. A large number of enzymes from bacteria, fungi, and plants have been reported to be involved in the biodegradation of toxic organic pollutants. Bioremediation is a cost effective and nature friendly biotechnology that is powered by microbial enzymes. The research activity in this area would contribute towards developing advanced bioprocess technology to reduce the toxicity of the pollutants and also to obtain novel useful substances. Introduction to Enzymes. Enzymes are biological catalysts that facilitate the conversion of substrates into products by providing favorable conditions that lower the activation energy of the reaction. An enzyme may be a protein or a glycoprotein and consists of at least one polypeptide moiety.
Bioremediation is a cost-effective, sustainable, natural approach to cleaning up contaminated soil and groundwater through the use of biological agents such as bacteria, microbes, fungi, and other organisms of their enzymes. 
Types of bioremediation Microbial bioremediation: Bioremediation can occur either naturally, or by the use of bioaugmentation (whole cell introduction) or Biostimulation approaches (use of nutrients or conditions to stimulate the native microbial community). Other extracellular enzymes used in bioremediation: Case studies Bioremediation of Textile Effluent using Enzymes Enzymes can act on specific recalcitrant pollutants to remove them by precipitation or transformation to other products.
1 EXTRACELLULAR ENZYMES IN BIOREMEDIATION:    Extracellular enzymes refer to those enzymes that are either secreted by the microbes, such as white rot fungi or those that enter the aqueous phase during an aerobic submerged fermentation process. 2  Such enzymes are naturally produced by the microbes and then harvested. Use of enzymes in bioremediation. 1  1. USE OF ENZYMES IN BIOREMEDIATION BACHELOR OF TECHNOLOGY (BIOTECHNOLOGY) BY SNEHAL.S.MENON 1 DEPARTMENT OF BIOTECHNOLOGY, STES’S SINHGAD COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING, VADGAON (BK), OFF SINHGAD ROAD, PUNE- 411041.
Bioremediation is a microorganism mediated transformation or degradation of contaminants into nonhazardous or less-hazardous substances. The employability of various organisms like bacteria, fungi, algae, and plants for efficient bioremediation of pollutants has been reported [ 1, 2 ]. Introduction to Enzymes. Enzymes are biological catalysts that facilitate the conversion of substrates into products by providing favorable conditions that lower the activation energy of the reaction. An enzyme may be a protein or a glycoprotein and consists of at least one polypeptide moiety.
Types of bioremediation: Enzymatic bioremediation: Enzymological background: Enzymes are biological catalysts that facilitate the conversion of substrates into products by providing favourable conditions that lower the activation energy of the reaction. Other extracellular enzymes used in bioremediation: Case studies Bioremediation of Textile Effluent using Enzymes Enzymes can act on specific recalcitrant pollutants to remove them by precipitation or transformation to other products.
Bio means “life”. Bioremediation uses living things to break down or remove toxins and harmful substances from soil and water. In particular, “ Bioremediation ” is often used to mean using beneficial bacteria and microorganisms, phytoremediation uses plants, and mycoremediation uses fungi and mushrooms.
According to the EPA, bioremediation is a “treatment that uses naturally occurring organisms to break down hazardous substances into less toxic or non toxic substances”. Bioremediation may occur on its own (natural attenuation or intrinsic bioremediation) or may only effectively occur through the addition of fertilizers, oxygen, etc., that help encourage the growth of the pollution-eating microbes within the medium (biostimulation).
Bioremediation is a waste management technique that involves the use of organisms to remove or neutralize pollutants from a contaminated site. Bioremediation may occur on its own (natural attenuation or intrinsic bioremediation) or may only effectively occur through the addition of fertilizers, oxygen, etc., that help encourage the growth of the pollution-eating microbes within the medium (biostimulation).