Report Abuse. normally 24 hours. if the freezer is already cold, then my suggestion would be to check the controls for the fridge section and make sure it isnt turned down or off. Bill Z · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. The control for the freezer is a damper. It makes it colder in the freezer by reducing the air to the refrigerator where the thermostat is that measures the temperature.
normally 24 hours. if the freezer is already cold, then my suggestion would be to check the controls for the fridge section and make sure it isnt turned down or off. The control for the freezer is a damper. It makes it colder in the freezer by reducing the air to the refrigerator where the thermostat is that measures the temperature.
Rule of thumb is generally 48 hours in the refrigerator. It does not take more than 8 hours to properly marinate, but anything over 48 hours is too long. After 48 hours, the s … alt in the marination will toughen the meat and reverse the process of meat tenderatization. How long does it take a refrigerator to get cold? It takes from 30 min to 2 hours to get 0F in freezer and 37 fresh food side, if you had before room temperature there.
Answer by Carol Ouellet. Confidence votes 98. It would take about 3-4 hours to cool down and 24 hours to stabilize. It is also faster if you don't turn up the temperature to max because that would only block air flow to the fridge from the freezer until the freezer gets the right temperature. 
its a french door style freezer on bottom whirlpool, it hasn't been plugged in for a couple of days and i don't want my food to spoil during transfer from my old fridge. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: i've worked on appliances for 25yrs. and it should take 3 - 4 hours to get to temperature, will run more often until the temp. stabilizes, which will take 24 hours. Source(s): tomt95405 · 7 years ago
plug it in and it should take 24 hours to be at the right temp, put a thermometer in there to make sure, usually you start at the medium setting and turn up or down very slowly if needed, but a thermometer is essential in knowing the temp and the settings, you should also check the freezer temp. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: i've worked on appliances for 25yrs. and it should take 3 - 4 hours to get to temperature, will run more often until the temp. stabilizes, which will take 24 hours. Source(s): tomt95405 · 7 years ago
Answer by Alli (71). Three hours is a sufficient amount of time for most refrigerators to cool down. However, it does depend upon the temperature you are trying to reach. Answer by worker76 (773). The recommended time for cool down is 24 hours. I personally don;'t think that is necessary. The fridge should be ready to use after 4 hours.
Last month was our first time boondocking so wanted to run the fridge on propane. It light fine and the vent was hot to the touch but the fridge wasn't cooling after 30 minutes so I turned it off and just used the ice chest. 
Posts. 431. bought a very expensive german-brand fridge that used R610 refrigerant with separate compressors for the ~450L fridge and ~450L freezer. it took about 5 hours to get both down to the default temperature settings (4 deg C for fridge, -18 for freezer). you may well find it cools down quicker with things inside the fridge/freezer as cooling air is not that easy to do!