12 hours. Ground Beef. (one pound bulk). Defrost in the refrigerator for: 24 hours. Additional Thawing and Defrosting Tips. 1  Beef that is not fully defrosted should not be cooked because the exterior of the beef may become overdone before the interior has had a chance to cook to the proper temperature.
1 If necessary, you can finish up the defrosting process in the microwave. 2  Place the ground beef in a microwave-safe dish and cover it. 3  Microwave on 50 percent power for 20 to 30 seconds at a time until it finishes thawing. Defrosting ground beef with refrigeration is best, but it also takes the longest amount of time. If you are in a rush, your best options are to defrost the beef using cold water or a microwave. Here are instructions on how to thaw your bulk ground beef using the refrigerator, cold water,
1 Keep in mind that the colder you keep your refrigerator, the longer the defrost time might be. 2  Ground beef with thaw quicker in a refrigerator kept at 40 degrees Fahrenheit (4 degrees Celsius) than it will in one kept at 35 degrees Fahrenheit (2 degrees Celsius). Defrosting ground beef with refrigeration is best, but it also takes the longest amount of time. If you are in a rush, your best options are to defrost the beef using cold water or a microwave. Here are instructions on how to thaw your bulk ground beef using the refrigerator, cold water,
Report Abuse. The best way to thaw frozen beef is to transfer it to the refrigerator for 3 days, If you don't have the time usually beef thaws in about 8 hours in room temperature. It is not recommended to keep beef in room temp more than 2 days. You can keep beef at 4 degrees celsius or less for up to 2 weeks. Do not refreeze beef as it'll cause it to lose its texture and its feel in your mouth would be a bit strange and chewy (contrary to popular belief it won't spoil). Amos C · 7 years ago.
No-thaw Cooking. It is perfectly safe to cook meats from the frozen state. Cooking will be approximately 50% longer than the recommended time for fully thawed or fresh meat and poultry. 1  DO NOT thaw meats on the counter or in hot water. 2  DO NOT leave meat at room temperature for more than two hours. 3  DO NOT thaw meat in a garage, basement, car, outdoors or on the porch. 
Refrigerator Method. (Recommended). Frozen beef should not be defrosted at room temperature. Harmful bacteria may grow rapidly under such conditions. The best method for thawing beef (or any other type of meat) is to place it in the refrigerator where it will defrost slowly and safely. Ground Beef. (one pound bulk). Defrost in the refrigerator for: 24 hours. Additional Thawing and Defrosting Tips. 1  Beef that is not fully defrosted should not be cooked because the exterior of the beef may become overdone before the interior has had a chance to cook to the proper
Change the water every 30 minutes. Cook immediately. Do not refreeze raw ground meat thawed in cold water or in the microwave oven unless you cook it first. Never leave ground beef or any perishable food out at room temperature for more than 2 hours (1 hour at 90 °F and above). Never leave ground beef or any perishable food out at room temperature for more than 2 hours — 1 hour at 90 °F (32.2 °C) and above. In every step of food preparation, follow the guidelines of the Food Safe Families Campaign to keep food safe.
Food takes longer to thaw in a refrigerator set at 35 °F than one set at 40 °F. After thawing in the refrigerator, ground meat and poultry should remain useable for an additional day or two before cooking; red meat, 3 to 5 days. A lot of bacteria grows in the range of 40-100F (i.e. room temperature). It's definitely not recommended to defrost meat at room temperature. In fact, you are not supposed to leave meat at room temperature for more than an hour. However, defrosting in the refrigerator can take a long time and require you to plan at least one day ahead of time