And ...done! Now that your iPhone 4S is completely put back together you can turn it back on. If the phone doesn't come on, try plugging it into a wall charger and see if the charging icon comes up. It's quite possible the battery may be dead and needs to be charged before use. Replace the battery and grounding clip. 1  Pay attention to how the cable is bent on your old battery and if the new one is not crimped in the same fashion put the folds in it before inserting it into the iPhone 4S. 2  Line up the grounding clip you removed previously over the screw hole before snapping down the battery.
If you need to charge your battery more and more frequently, it might be time to service it. For products with built-in lithium-ion polymer batteries, the batteries should be serviced by Apple or an authorized service provider. The one-year warranty includes service coverage for a defective battery. If it is out of warranty, Apple offers a battery service for $79, plus $6.95 shipping, subject to local tax. Your battery is designed to retain up to 80% of its original capacity at 1000 complete charge cycles.
Try taking it to Apple and see if they could change it for you if you have warranty, otherwise see if your charging cable is not the problem, try a different cable because sometimes cables can be faulty and shows not charging when you plug it in. Marvin C 25.07.2015. My iPhone 4 doesn't seem to charge anymore and i was wondering if its possible to change the battery for a new one for me to then sell it.
If the battery life in your iPhone 4S is getting worse and worse, or it just won't hold a charge, you can easily perform a DIY replacement. This can help you get lots more life out of your device and prevent having to buy a new iPhone before you absolutely have to. Replace the battery and grounding clip. 1  Pay attention to how the cable is bent on your old battery and if the new one is not crimped in the same fashion put the folds in it before inserting it into the iPhone 4S. 2  Line up the grounding clip you removed previously over the screw hole before snapping down the battery.
4. Replace the battery. 1  Remove the two screws holding down the battery cable using your #000 Phillips screwdriver. 2  Gently lift the battery shield out of your iPhone 5s and carefully set it aside. 3  Use your spudger tool to carefully pry up the battery cable. What you need to DIY replace an iPhone 5s battery. You'll need some tools and parts in order to repair your iPhone 5s. If you're in the United States or Canada, we highly recommend checking out eTech Parts as we've had lots of good experiences with them and know their customer service is out of this world.
If you find your iPhone 5 runs out of juice too quickly, Apple has a fix. The Cupertino, Calif., electronics giant said it has determined that a very small percentage of iPhone 5 devices may suddenly experience shorter battery life or need to be charged more frequently.. Apple will replace the batteries in those devices, sold between September 2012 and January 2013, for free. You can check to see if your phone is eligible by plugging your serial number into an Apple site. 
---------------------------------------- ­---------------------------------------- ­---------------------------------------- ­-------------------------------------. How to change the battery in your iPhone 5c. Even though the battery is internal, it is still possible to change. With just a few simple screws, and some patience, you can get battery pried up and away from the back of the phone and switch it out. The batteries are pretty cheap as well. The battery from the original iPhone 5 will NOT work in the iPhone 5c. 
However, you can indeed replace your iPhone's battery, and it's cheaper and easier than you might think. In fact, I just put a new battery in my 15-month-old iPhone 4S, which was definitely showing signs of charge wear. Total cost: $8. Total time: 20 minutes. 
According to Apple, your iPhone's battery is designed to retain at least 80 percent of it's full capacity after 500 charge cycles. That means it won't last as long as it did when new after a couple of years. If your battery won't even last a day with normal use, it's probably time to get a new one: we show you how to fit a battery in your iPhone and save money compared to Apple's battery replacement prices. How to replace the battery in an iPhone 5 (plus 5C or 5S). Step 1. Turn off your phone by holding down the power button, then sliding the on-screen button to the right. Step 2. Use your Pentalobe screwdriver to remove the two screws on the bottom edge of your iPhone.
(If the mere concept of opening an iPhone fills you with dread, Apple will replace the battery for you, for $79, plus $6.95 shipping if you can’t go to an Apple store. That seems expensive to me, especially when iFixit charges $29.95 for the same battery plus the necessary tools. 