Somalis (Somali: Soomaali, Arabic: صومال ‎) are an ethnic group inhabiting the Horn of Africa (Somali Peninsula). The overwhelming majority of Somalis speak the Somali language, which is part of the Cushitic branch of the Afro-Asiatic family. They are predominantly Sunni Muslim. Ethnic Somalis number around 16-20 million and are principally concentrated in Somalia (around 12.3 million), Ethiopia (4.6 million), Kenya (2.4 million), and Djibouti (464,600), with many also residing in parts of the Middle East, North America and Europe. Football is the most popular sport amongst Somalis. Important competitions are the Somalia League and Somalia Cup. The multi-ethnic Ocean Stars, Somalia's national team, first participated at the Olympic Games in 1972 and has sent athletes to compete in most Summer Olympic Games since then.
People living in somalia or people of somali ethnicity? Cause most people in Somalia are of somali ethnicity but about 15% of the population are of Non-Somali ethnic minority groups. They include Benadiri, Bravanese, Bantus, Bajuni, Ethiopians, Indians, Persians, Italians and Britons. Source(s): Some people say Somali people should not be classed the same as other Black Africans because of their ancestors were not black or something. Im not sure, but I would really like to know where my ancestors came from and what ethnicity scientists would classify Somalis under.
The Somali people share a common language, Somali, and most are Muslims of the Sunni sect. Somalis also live in northern Kenya; in the Ogaden region of eastern Ethiopia; and in Djibouti, to the northwest of Somalia. Somalia is on the outer edge of the Somali Peninsula, also called the Horn of Africa, on the East African coast. It is bordered on the north by the Gulf of Aden, on the east by the Indian Ocean, on the southwest by Kenya, and on the west and northwest by Ethiopia and Djibouti.
Ethnic Groups in Somalia: Somali 85%, Bantu and other non-Somali 15% (including Arabs 30,000). Major Languages: Somali (official), Arabic, Italian, English. Swahili is common among refugees. Current Government of Somalia: No permanent national government; transitional, parliamentary federal government. 
Somalis are from Somalia. Somalis are an ethnic group located in theHorn of Africa. The overwhelming majority of Somalis speak the Somali Language, which is part of the Cushit … ic subgroup of the Afro-Asiatic language family. But if you are asking what we really are? Some people are saying that Somalis are mixed do not even know our history.
Report Abuse. Somali is an ethnicity. African and black are not ethnicities. You would know if you are Somali. So if you don't know your ethnicity (or ethnicities) then you are not likely of Somali ancestry, let alone Horn ancestry, as we tend to marry almost strictly into our own groups and are very cultural. Some people say Somali people should not be classed the same as other Black Africans because of their ancestors were not black or something. Im not sure, but I would really like to know where my ancestors came from and what ethnicity scientists would classify Somalis under.
Ethnic Relations. Some 95 percent of the people of Somalia are ethnic Somalis, and relations with the small percentage of Arabs, Indians, Pakistanis, Asians, Europeans, and mixed groups living in Somalia are generally peaceful. Somalia is on the outer edge of the Somali Peninsula, also called the Horn of Africa, on the East African coast. It is bordered on the north by the Gulf of Aden, on the east by the Indian Ocean, on the southwest by Kenya, and on the west and northwest by Ethiopia and Djibouti.
I tend to be of the opinion that Somalis are the largest undocumented ethnic group in the world. 17 million people yet no one knows their history beyond the last few centuries. There's records of civilization in the region but no record of any group of people known as Somalis or by any other name. 
Somali Race and Ethnicity. Among groups in the Horn of Africa, you have noted that the Somalis and Ethiopians look different from other African peoples. It is actually unclear why the Somali peoples look more Caucasian, even though they have dark skin like the Oromo Cushites or Bantu Africans. 