Botrytis cinerea, also known as gray mold, most commonly affects grapes, strawberries and rhubarb. The name means grapes of ashes in Latin, because the mold is gray-colored and has a nobbly texture, clustering in small circles. On grapes, botrytis cinerea can cause winegrower's lung, a rare respiratory allergic reaction, in people who are predisposed, according to Academic Dictionary. 
The spores give mold the color you see. When airborne, the spores spread the mold from place to place like dandelion seeds blowing across a meadow. Molds have branches and roots that are like very thin threads. The roots may be difficult to see when the mold is growing on food and may be very deep in the food. 
The Specific Mold and where it is found DESCRIPTION OF MOLDS ALTERNARIA (Air-borne) Colonies: grey, dark green, brown to black. This is an outdoor mold, which frequently grows in textiles, foodstuffs, and soils. The black spots seen on tomatoes are usually of the alternaria mold specie. Frequently found on condensed window frames; generally an outdoors mold and appears when the weather is warm.
The spores give mold the color you see. When airborne, the spores spread the mold from place to place like dandelion seeds blowing across a meadow. Molds have branches and roots that are like very thin threads. The roots may be difficult to see when the mold is growing on food and may be very deep in the food. Foods that are moldy may also have invisible bacteria growing along with the mold. 
Botrytis or Gray Mold. The plant pathogenic fungus Botrytis is found virtually everywhere plants are grown. It is fast growing, can grow on many different sources of nutrients, survives well in the greenhouse, and can attack many different types of plants.
The roots may be difficult to see when the mold is growing on food and may be very deep in the food. Foods that are moldy may also have invisible bacteria growing along with the mold.Yes, some molds cause allergic reactions and respiratory problems. And a few molds, in the right conditions, produce “mycotoxins,” poisonous substances that can make people sick. When you see mold on food, is it safe to cut off the moldy part and use the rest? To find the answer to that question, delve beneath the surface of food to where molds take root.
The species name Botrytis cinerea is derived from the Latin for grapes like ashes; although poetic, the grapes refers to the bunching of the fungal spores on their conidiophores, and ashes just refers to the greyish colour of the spores en masse. Botrytis cinerea growing on a plate with a ring of visible sclerotia (dark brown balls). Botrytis cinerea is characterized by abundant hyaline conida (asexual spores) borne on grey, branching tree-like conidiophores.
In viticulture, it is commonly known as botrytis bunch rot; in horticulture, it is usually called grey mould or gray mold. The fungus gives rise to two different kinds of infections on grapes. Botrytis cinerea growing on a plate with a ring of visible sclerotia (dark brown balls). Botrytis cinerea is characterized by abundant hyaline conida (asexual spores) borne on grey, branching tree-like conidiophores.
Botrytis cinerea mold on grapes may cause  winegrower's lung , a rare form of hypersensitivity pneumonitis (a respiratory allergic reaction in predisposed individuals). Botrytis cinerea growing on a plate with a ring of visible sclerotia (dark brown balls). Botrytis cinerea is characterized by abundant hyaline conida (asexual spores) borne on grey, branching tree-like conidiophores.
As the bread rots, the mold grows. There are thousands of different kinds of molds. One mold that grows on lemons looks like a blue-green powder. A mold that grows on strawberries is a grayish-white fuzz. A common mold that grows on bread looks like white cottony fuzz at first. If you watch that mold for a few days, it will turn black.