The wc (word count) command in Unix/Linux operating systems is used to find out number of newline count, word count, byte and characters count in a files specified by the file arguments. The syntax of wc command as shown below. The following are the options and usage provided by the command. 2. To count number of newlines in a file use the option ‘ -l ‘, which prints the number of lines from a given file. Say, the following command will display the count of newlines in a file. In the output the first filed assigned as count and second field is the name of file
Count Number of Lines. To count number of newlines in a file use the option ‘ -l ‘, which prints the number of lines from a given file. Say, the following command will display the count of newlines in a file. In the output the first filed assigned as count and second field is the name of file. 2. To count number of newlines in a file use the option ‘ -l ‘, which prints the number of lines from a given file. Say, the following command will display the count of newlines in a file.
In Unix, to get the line, word, or character count of a document, use the wc command. At the Unix shell prompt, enter: Replace filename with the file or files for which you want information. For each file, wc will output three numbers. The first is the line count, the second is the word count, and the third is the character count. For example, if you entered wc .login, the output would be something similar to the following: To narrow the focus of your query, use one or more of the following wc options:
wc is the word counter in UNIX and UNIX-like operating systems, you can to use it to count lines in a file, by adding the-l option, so wc-l foo will count the number of lines in foo. Youcan also pipe output from a program like this: ls-l | wc-l, which will tell you how many files are in the current directory. 
These files can grow quickly. If you want to know how many lines are in a Unix text file, use the wc command. This command shows the number of words, lines and characters are in a particular file. Determine the number of lines by counting the newline -- \n -- characters in a particular file. Open a terminal window or log into an SSH session to access a command prompt. Type the command wc-l filename to show the number of lines in the file. Replace filename with the exact name of the file. Press the Enter key to display the information on the next line.
(3) Add line numbers to search results. The -n option adds line numbers to the output: $ grep-n unix examplefile.txt 2:this is line 2 unix This makes it easier to locate the pattern in a large file that doesn't have its own line numbers. (4) Display how many lines contain the search pattern. Another option instructs grep to count the number of times a pattern appears.
To split large files into smaller files in Unix, use the split command. At the Unix prompt, enter: Replace filename with the name of the large file you wish to split. Replace prefix with the name you wish to give the small output files. You can exclude [options] , or replace it with either of the following: If you use the-l (a lowercase L) option, replace linenumber with the number of lines you'd like in each of the smaller files (the default is 1,000). If you use the-b option, replace bytes with the number of bytes you'd like in each of the smaller files