The state of the tongue is a good indicator of the general health of an individual. Black spots on tongue may form on the top or underside of the tongue. It may occur due to minor causes or severe underlying conditions like oral cancer. • Oral cancer: Black spots on the underside and/or the surface of tongue can also be a sign of oral cancer. It is however rare as most cases of oral cancer are accompanied by white spots on tongue.
Most often that colour is black, hence the name. But the tongue can also turn brown, yellow, green or a variety of other colours. Certain lifestyle habits and conditions can make people more likely to develop black hairy tongue. They include: 1  Poor oral hygiene. 2  Smoking tobacco. 3  Drinking a lot of tea or coffee.
Other than the appearance of the tongue, most people with black hairy tongue don't have any symptoms or feel any discomfort. The exception is when there is too much growth of the yeast Candida albicans, which can cause a burning sensation on the tongue. This burning sensation is called glossopyrosis. But the tongue can also turn brown, yellow, green or a variety of other colours. Certain lifestyle habits and conditions can make people more likely to develop black hairy tongue. They include: 1  Poor oral hygiene. 2  Smoking tobacco. 3  Drinking a lot of tea or coffee.
Types of tongue cancer. The most common type of tongue cancer is squamous cell carcinoma (SCCA). Squamous cells are the flat, skin like cells that cover the lining of the mouth, nose, larynx, thyroid and throat. Squamous cell carcinoma is the name given to a cancer that starts in these cells. Cancers that develop in this part of the tongue come under a group of cancers called mouth (oral) cancer. The base of the tongue is the back third of the tongue. This part is very near your throat (pharynx). Cancers that develop in this part are called oropharyngeal cancers (pronounced oar-o-farin-gee-al).
Mouth cancer, also known as oral cancer, is where a tumour develops on the surface of the tongue, mouth, lips or gums. Tumours can also occur in the salivary glands, tonsils and the pharynx (the part of the throat from your mouth to your windpipe) but these are less common. Symptoms of mouth cancer include: 
A black hairy tongue is caused by too much bacteria or yeast growth in the mouth. The bacteria build up on tiny rounded projections called papillae. These lie along the surface of the tongue. Other than the appearance of the tongue, most people with black hairy tongue don't have any symptoms or feel any discomfort. The exception is when there is too much growth of the yeast Candida albicans, which can cause a burning sensation on the tongue. This burning sensation is called glossopyrosis.
Surgery to the tongue can cause problems with your speech and changes in eating and drinking. Radiotherapy to the head and neck area can cause several side effects including a dry, sore mouth and taste changes. There is information about the side effects of radiotherapy to the mouth in the mouth cancer section. Cancers that develop in this part of the tongue come under a group of cancers called mouth (oral) cancer. The base of the tongue is the back third of the tongue. This part is very near your throat (pharynx). Cancers that develop in this part are called oropharyngeal cancers (pronounced oar-o-farin-gee-al).
Tongue cancer is a form of oral cancer. The tongue and lips are common sites for oral cancers. Most tongue cancers are squamous cell carcinomas that start in the surface layer of the tongue. Symptoms such as an ulcer or sore that does not heal, pain, and problems with swallowing may occur. 
Most often that color is black, hence the name. But the tongue can also turn brown, yellow, green, or a variety of other colors. Certain lifestyle habits and conditions can make people more likely to develop black hairy tongue. They include: 1  poor oral hygiene. 2  smoking tobacco. 3  drinking a lot of coffee or tea. Other than the appearance of the tongue, most people with black hairy tongue don't have any symptoms or feel any discomfort. The exception is when there is too much growth of the yeast Candida albicans, which can cause a burning sensation on the tongue. This burning sensation is called glossopyrosis.