czar Czar, or tsar, is our English word for a pre-Soviet Russian emperor. Tsar is a straightforward borrowing from the Russian, but the form of czar is strange. It looks rather like a Polish word, and in fact there is a Polish czar, but it is pronounced like English char and means 'charm' or 'spell'. The Polish equivalent of Russian tsar is spelled car —Polish c is pronounced ts. A usage note under the entry for czar in The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language, fourth edition (2000) offers perhaps the best explanation of this seeming anomaly: The word czar can also be spelled tsar.
Since the word tsar remained the popular designation of the Russian ruler despite the official change of style, its transliteration of this title in foreign languages such as English is commonly used also, in fact chiefly, for the Russian Emperors up to 1917. However, the title tsar (and its Byzantine Greek equivalent  basileus ) was actually adopted and used for the first time by his son Simeon I, following a makeshift imperial coronation performed by the Patriarch of Constantinople in 913.
Reception of the Tsar of Russia in the Moscow Kremlin. Tsar (Old Church Slavonic: ц︢рь (usually written thus with a tilde) or цар, цaрь; also Czar or Tzar in Latin alphabet languages) is a title used to designate certain European Slavic monarchs or supreme rulers. However, the title tsar (and its Byzantine Greek equivalent  basileus ) was actually adopted and used for the first time by his son Simeon I, following a makeshift imperial coronation performed by the Patriarch of Constantinople in 913.
, from Greek, from Latin. , emperor; see caesar .]. czar′dom n. Usage Note: The word czar, a borrowing from Russian originally referring to the emperor of Russia, is a cousin of the German word Kaiser; both words descend from the name of the Roman emperor Julius Caesar. n. 1. also tsar or tzar (zaer, zär) Tsaer tsär a male monarch, or emperor especially one of the emperors Who ruled russia until the revolution. of. 1917 2 a person having great power: or authority an. energy czar
czar (n.). 1550s, from Russian tsar, from Old Slavic tsesari, from Gothic kaisar, from Greek kaisar, from Latin. First adopted by Russian emperor Ivan IV, 1547. The spelling with cz-is against the usage of all Slavonic languages; the word was so spelt by Herberstein, Rerum Moscovit. 
Czar is an informal title for certain high-level officials in the United States and the United Kingdom. Political czars can run or organize governmental departments, and may devote their expertise to a single area of work. In the United States, the term czar has been used by the media to refer to appointed executive branch officials since at least the 1930s and then the 1940s under President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
Czar is an uncommonly occurring first name for men but a very prominent surname for both adults and children (#67725 out of 150436, Top 45%). (2000 U.S. Census). Prominent variation forms of Czar (not in Top 1000) are Caesar, Cesar (#279 last year) and King (#175) . Variants like Caezar are seldom used. Czar /czar/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is pronounced zar. It is of Russian and Latin origin, and the meaning of Czar is head of hair. Russian form of Caesar. Related boy name: King.
The term 'czar,' is a word of Balkan origin etymologically originating from the name Caesar, as does the word 'tsar,' a title of sovereignty adopted by late Rurukid-dynasty (Ivan III and Ivan IV the Terrible in particular) rulers of Muscovy. In the United States, the term czar has been used by the media to refer to appointed executive branch officials since at least the 1930s and then the 1940s under President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
Czar in Nautical Flags. Russian names generally consist of three names. A given name, a patronymic name and a family name. A patronymic name is based on the name of one's father, grandfather, or earlier male ancestor. Russian male patronymic names are formed by adding the suffex-evich or-ovich, female patronymic names by adding the suffex-ovna or-evna.