Future President James Madison is born on this day in 1751 in Port Conway, Virginia. Madison, one of the key drafters of the U.S. Constitution and the Bill of Rights, became America’s fourth president in 1809. He is considered the Father of the Constitution, though he humbly referred to its...
(March 16. 1751 – June 28, 1836) was an American statesman, political theorist, and the fourth President of the United States (1809–17). He is hailed as the Father of the Constitution for being instrumental in the drafting of the U.S. Constitution and as the key champion and author of the Bill of Rights.
James Madison. James Madison, America's fourth President (1809-1817), made a major contribution to the ratification of the Constitution by writing The Federalist Papers, along with Alexander Hamilton and John Jay. In later years, he was referred to as the Father of the Constitution..
In 1789, Madison became a leader in the new House of Representatives, drafting many basic laws. He is notable for drafting the first ten amendments to the Constitution, and thus is known as the Father of the Bill of Rights. Madison worked closely with President George Washington to organize the new federal government.
The Father of the Constitution is credited with the writing of The Constitution of the United States; a piece of legislature implementing and authorizing the legality facets applicable to the relationship between the Federal Government of the United States and the citizens of the United States.
The Fourth president of the United States, James Madison, is also theFather of the Constitution. James Madison is considered the Father of the US Constitution. Madison was the 4th President of the United States and served from March 4, 1809 to March 4, 1817.
James Madison is generally regarded as the father of the United States Constitution. No other delegate was better prepared for the Federal Convention of 1787, and no one contributed more than Madison to shaping the ideas and contours of the document or to explaining its meaning.