noun. 1. record, score, total, count, reckoning, running total They do not keep a tally of visitors to the palace. verb. 1. agree, match, accord, fit, suit, square, parallel, coincide, correspond, conform, concur, harmonize The figures didn't seem to tally. A mark used in recording a number of acts or objects, most often in series of five, consisting of four vertical lines canceled diagonally or horizontally by a fifth line. 5. A label, ticket, or piece of metal or wood used for identification or classification, especially in gardens and greenhouses.
2. Also called tal'ly stick. a stick of wood with notches cut to indicate the amount of a debt or payment, often split lengthwise across the notches, the debtor retaining one piece and the creditor the other. 3. anything on which a score or account is kept. 4. a notch or mark made on or in a tally. 5. a number or group of items recorded. 6. a mark made to register a certain number of items, as four consecutive vertical lines with a diagonal line through them to indicate a group of five. 7. a number of objects serving as a unit of computation
noun. verb. The definition of a tally is a record or where a record is kept, particularly of points in a sporting event. An example of a tally is a record of how many games a team has won in a soccer tournament. Tally is defined as to count or to record an amount
› the ​total ​number or ​amount of things or ​people: the tally for sth The ​final tally for biodiesel ​production in 2012 should be between 220 and 275 million ​gallons. the second-highest tally on ​record. (Definition of tally from the Cambridge Business English Dictionary © Cambridge University Press). The two ​accounts of the incident do not tally. › [T] (also tally sth up) to ​calculate something: To tally up the ​taxes you ​paid during the ​period, use Form 8913. › [T] to ​reach a ​total ​number or ​amount of things or ​people: The ​bookstore has tallied 1,700 ​advance ​orders.
Tally-ho dates from around 1772, and is probably derived from the French taiaut, taïaut a cry used to excite hounds when hunting. Deer from sources from the second half of the 13th, century it is from the concatenation of two words forming a war: cry taille. haut Tally-ho dates from around 1772, and is probably derived from the French taiaut, taïaut a cry used to excite hounds when hunting. deer
Full Definition of TALLY. transitive verb. 1. a: to record on or as if on a tally: tabulate b: to list or check off (as a cargo) by items c: to register (as a score) in a contest. 2. : to make a count of: reckon. 3. : to cause to correspond. intransitive verb. 1. Middle English talye, from Anglo-French talie, taille, in part from tailler to cut, measure, count; in part from Medieval Latin tallia, alteration of Latin talea plant cutting, thin piece of wood.
The phrase tally-ho is a largely British phrase, which originated from the activity of foxhunting, and other forms of hunting with hounds, shouted when a rider or follower sees the fox (or other quarry). Today the term has evolved to have other meanings, most of which relate to 'pointing out' or 'spotting' a 'target'. Tally-ho dates from around 1772, and is probably derived from the French taiaut, taïaut a cry used to excite hounds when hunting. deer
› a ​record or ​count of a ​number of things: Make ​sure to ​keep a tally of the ​number of ​customers going in and out. (Definition of tally from the Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press). The two ​accounts of the incident do not tally. › [T] (also tally sth up) to ​calculate something: To tally up the ​taxes you ​paid during the ​period, use Form 8913. › [T] to ​reach a ​total ​number or ​amount of things or ​people: The ​bookstore has tallied 1,700 ​advance ​orders.
Full Definition of TALLY. 1. : a device (as a notched rod or mechanical counter) for visibly recording or accounting especially business transactions. Middle English talye, from Anglo-French talie, taille, in part from tailler to cut, measure, count; in part from Medieval Latin tallia, alteration of Latin talea plant cutting, thin piece of wood.