Chemical energy. Chemical Energy is energy stored in the bonds of chemical compounds (atoms and molecules). It is released in a chemical reaction, often producing heat as a by product (exothermic reaction) . RECOMMENDED LESSONS: Chemical energy. Chemical Energy is energy stored in the bonds of chemical compounds (atoms and molecules). It is released in a chemical reaction, often producing heat as a by product (exothermic reaction) . Batteries, biomass, petroleum, natural gas, and coal are examples of stored chemical energy.
Energy that can be released (or absorbed) because of a reaction between a set of chemical substances is equal to the difference between the energy content of the products and the reactants. This change in energy is change in a chemical reaction. Chemical potential energy is a form of potential energy related to the structural arrangement of atoms or molecules. This arrangement may be the result of chemical bonds within a molecule or otherwise. Chemical energy of a chemical substance can be transformed to other forms of energy by
Your body uses chemical energy to get your strength, and both you and your teacher are correct. Chemical energy in plants and other food is potential energy. This chemical energy is released as it is burned or oxidized inside our bodies during digestion-fueling our bodies. 
Interesting Chemical Energy Facts: Chemical energy is stored inside a substance or object until it is involved in a chemical reaction. Our bodies use chemical energy to perform daily functions. During an exothermic chemical reaction, chemical energy in the form of heat is released. Plants perform a chemical reaction each time they use sunlight to make their own food during photosynthesis. The energy that results during a chemical reaction is called chemical energy. It is a type of potential energy. Chemical energy is stored within the bonds of the atoms and molecules that make up a substance. Once chemical energy is released from a substance, the substance is transformed into a new substance
The dry wood is a store of chemical energy. As it burns in the fireplace, chemical energy is released and converted to thermal energy (heat) and light energy. Notice that the wood now turns into ashes (a new substance). Food is also a good example of stored chemical energy. This energy is released during digestion. Molecules in our food are broken down into smaller pieces. As the bonds between these atoms loosen or break, a chemical reaction will occur, and new compounds are created. RECOMMENDED LESSONS: Chemical energy. Chemical Energy is energy stored in the bonds of chemical compounds (atoms and molecules). It is released in a chemical reaction, often producing heat as a by product (exothermic reaction) . Batteries, biomass, petroleum, natural gas, and coal are examples of stored chemical energy.
Food also consist chemical energy that the body convert into mechanical energy and heat. Chemical reactions. Chemical reactions are everywhere around us. When you mom is cooking is a chemical reaction between different ingredients and products. When your dad is driving a car is also type of chemical energy. Home Energy transform Chemical energy. Chemical energy is one of the 7 main form of the energy. Chemical energy is a potential energy. That type of energy comes from the bonds of atoms and molecules. Chemical energy as a heat is possible to be released during a chemical reaction. The chemists called it an exothermic reaction
Energy transformation-Chemical energy. Home Energy transform Chemical energy. Chemical energy is one of the 7 main form of the energy. Chemical energy is a potential energy. That type of energy comes from the bonds of atoms and molecules. Chemical energy as a heat is possible to be released during a chemical reaction. The chemists called it an exothermic reaction