The cost of installation, which can be between €2,000 and €5,000 depending on the size of tank and the type of installation, must be taken into account in your budget. Make sure that a tank is large enough for the property in question, e.g. 2,500 litres for two bedrooms and up to 4,000 litres for five bedrooms. 
The second, and more widely used choice in France is a fosse septique (septic tank), or a fosse toutes eaux (tank for all waters). These are actually treatment plants for waste water and solids from kitchens and bathrooms. A question about how to find a septic tank or fosse septique (added 4/3/11)... We have just been looking at your helpful site regarding the fosse septique in France. Our problem is, we have a fosse septique but cannot find it. We purchased the house three years ago and were told where the tank was, unfortunately it is not where the vendors said it wa
Why do you think that the French are accredited with inventing perfume?! The tank should hold a minimum of 3000 litres of waste water in a toutes eaux system and as a rule of thumb for the sizing of a French fosse septique you should allow 1000 litres for each bedroom at your property in France. 
The size of the system also means that installation costs can be high. fosse septique france. However SPANC has recently started to approve micro-stations for use in France. These are single, compact units that collect and treat used water without the need for a large filter bed. Who better to explain what it all means than the experts at Fosse France Solutions who are an independent supplier of Sewage Treatment Systems to France.
Compact Sewage Systems in France A technical and cost comparison Fosse Septiques - Électricité - électricité-Plomberie-Terrassement.RENOVATIONWWW.rénovationwww Lce23’com compact O (4 ST2) - 4 Eh Assainissement autonome composed of a septic tank in (2.compartments) 3 6m3 with-a & pre filter a separate 2 stagefilter of. rock wool Compact Sewage Systems in France A technical and cost comparison Fosse Septiques - Électricité - électricité-Plomberie-Terrassement.RENOVATIONWWW.rénovationwww Lce23 Com Filiere (filière TOPAZE) T5 ENVIRONNEMENTSingle eh neve environnementsingle: Tank system AAeration Accumulation (Tank)Aaeration Zone (B)Settlement tank (C)Sludge stockage. d sand filter
There are principally two stages to a septic tank installation in France. There is the Pre-treatment stage and the Treatment stage. Contrary to popular opinion the septic tank is not the treatment stage but simply the pre-treatment stage. Where they will make efforts to get the problem with the septic tanks / fosse septiques sorted out as a matter of urgency. SPANC are not coming out to punish you, they simply are trying to survey all of the Septic Tanks in France and reduce pollution from faulty or badly installed systems.
The new law of 1992 and the fosse toutes eaux. In many areas of France, especially in the countryside where mains drainage is not available, sewage has to be treated on site using a Fosse Septique (Septic Tank), or similar treatment plant. 
The general rule of thumb is 1000 litres of septic tank capacity per bedroom in your property, so a 4 bedroom house in France would require a septic tank with a 4000 litre capacity. The smallest and most readily available septic tanks size in France is 3000 litres. Where they will make efforts to get the problem with the septic tanks / fosse septiques sorted out as a matter of urgency. SPANC are not coming out to punish you, they simply are trying to survey all of the Septic Tanks in France and reduce pollution from faulty or badly installed systems.
If however you septic tank / fosse septique in France is considered to be an environmental or health risk they will insist you carry out remedial work to rectify any problems with your assainissement. You will have 4 years (their deadline is 2012) to rectify any problems with your septic tank / fosse septique. Where they will make efforts to get the problem with the septic tanks / fosse septiques sorted out as a matter of urgency. SPANC are not coming out to punish you, they simply are trying to survey all of the Septic Tanks in France and reduce pollution from faulty or badly installed systems.