Giardia is a microscopic parasite that causes the diarrheal illness known as giardiasis. Giardia (also known as Giardia intestinalis, Giardia lamblia, or Giardia duodenalis) is found on surfaces or in soil, food, or water that has been contaminated with feces (poop) from infected humans or animals.
Giardiasis refers to an intestinal infection that is caused by the protozoan parasite giardia, which is the most common intestinal parasite that is found in humans. Dogs develop the infection by ingesting infectious offspring (cysts) that are shed in another animal's feces.
The most common way to become infected with giardia is after swallowing contaminated water. Giardia parasites are found in lakes, ponds, rivers and streams worldwide, as well as in municipal water supplies, wells, cisterns, swimming pools, water parks and spas.
Giardiasis is an infection that affects your small intestine, caused by microscopic parasites called giardia. Giardiasis is spread through contact with infected people and by eating contaminated food or drinking contaminated water.
Giardia is the name of a parasite that is scientifically known as Giardia lamblia. This parasite causes a contagious disease, called giardiasis, by infecting the intestinal tract of humans, resulting in nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and other gastrointestinal symptoms.
Causes. Giardia parasites live in the intestines of people and animals. Before the microscopic parasites are passed in stool, they become encased within hard shells called cysts, which allows them to survive outside the intestines for months. Once inside a host, the cysts dissolve and the parasites are released.
Giardiasis is an intestinal infection of man and animals caused by a protozoan parasite Giardia intestinalis (also known as Giardia lamblia). Giardia is a simple one-celled parasitic species; it is not a worm, bacteria or virus. The parasite occurs worldwide and is a common cause of Traveler's Diarrhea in people.
1 Giardiasis is the name of the disease caused by Giardia lamblia parasites that infect the small bowel. 2  Giardiasis is caused by Giardialamblia parasites that damage the small intestine; Giardia lamblia forms cysts are transmitted to humans in contaminated water or food and by person-to-person contact.