Each $2 of income reduces GIS by $1. The following would be eligible to receive GIS in 2015, based on 2014 income: For exact details on what income from your tax return is included or excluded for purposes of calculating the GIS, see the GIS application form and instructions from the Service Canada OAS Forms page. Choose form ISP3025 for the year in which you are interested. This maximum is reached if there is no income other than OAS and GIS. Income from GIS is tax-free. However, it is reported on Line 146 of the personal income tax return, so is included in Line 150, Total Income for Tax Purposes and Line 236, Net Income for Tax Purposes. It is later deducted on Line 250 of the tax return, so is not included in Taxable Income
GIS is a non taxable benefit for low income seniors which basically tops up Old Age Security (OAS). The maximum GIS benefit is approximately $7,800 per year, which combined with OAS (max $6,200/year) is around $14,000 per year. In addition to the extra cash, there are other benefits as well like drug coverage. Selling the home will not affect her GIS, but investment income will. Your mother could invest the house proceeds and use that to pay her rent, but if she qualifies for GIS, she should invest as tax-efficiently as possible. She is in effect in a 70% tax bracket (20% income tax plus 50% GIS clawback).
Updated with July 2015 rates. GIS (Guaranteed Income Supplement) is one of the “supplementary” benefits payable under the Old Age Security (OAS) Act. Other such supplementary benefits include the Allowance and the Allowance for a Survivor; they will be discussed in a future article. Normally, GIS entitlement for any payment year (July through June) is based on income for the previous calendar year. For instance, GIS entitlement for the period of July 2015 through June 2016 is normally based on your income for the 2014
The GIS is clawed back by 50% of the taxable income. The dividend on the stock is gross-up by 38%, so a $1,000 dividend will add $1,380 to your taxable income. Then GIS is clawed back at 50% of the $1,380. Selling the home will not affect her GIS, but investment income will. Your mother could invest the house proceeds and use that to pay her rent, but if she qualifies for GIS, she should invest as tax-efficiently as possible. She is in effect in a 70% tax bracket (20% income tax plus 50% GIS clawback).
For the most part, income for GIS purposes is the same as your net income reported on your Income Tax return (excluding OAS). Here is a link that provides more detail: http://www.servicecanada.gc.ca/eng/services/pensions/oas/income-deductions.shtml. Normally, GIS entitlement for any payment year (July through June) is based on income for the previous calendar year. For instance, GIS entitlement for the period of July 2015 through June 2016 is normally based on your income for the 2014
The Old Age Security pension (or OAS or OAS-GIS) is a taxable monthly social security payment available to most Canadians 65 years of age or older with individual income less than $114,815. For low income pensioners who earn little or no other income, the Old Age Security is supplemented by a Guaranteed Income Supplement (GIS), which is considered non-taxable income. The amount of the Guaranteed Income Supplement depends on income, marital status and the age of the spouse in married couples.
Your GIS entitlement is normally calculated on the basis of the income that you reported on your income tax return, with a couple of small adjustments. The easiest way to check this is to call Service Canada at 1-800-277-9914 and ask them what income they are using for you. Normally, GIS entitlement for any payment year (July through June) is based on income for the previous calendar year. For instance, GIS entitlement for the period of July 2015 through June 2016 is normally based on your income for the 2014
From finiki. The Guaranteed Income Supplement (GIS) provides a monthly non-taxable benefit to Old Age Security (OAS) recipients who have a low income and are living in Canada. To be eligible for the GIS benefit, you must be a legal resident of Canada and be receiving the Old Age Security pension. Each dollar of income reduces your GIS benefit by 50 cents. There may be a provincial benefit as well. In Alberta, each dollar of income reduces your Alberta Seniors Benefit by 18 cents for a total of 68 cents. Even if you pay no income tax, your marginal tax rate is 68%.