Ask the Diabetes Educator Archive 10/18/04 Q: When fasting for a fasting glucose test that is done first thing in the morning, how long should one fast for? Is it 8 hours or 12 to 14 hours? Does it matter? A: The textbook time to fast before a glucose test is 8 hours. However, when you are also testing for lipid levels, it has been my experience that 14 hours are better to clear the triglycerides.
Fast for eight to 12 hours before you have your first blood taken. The glucose tolerance test includes a blood draw before you drink a sugary liquid, and an hour after that as well. If you're doing a three-hour glucose tolerance test, then it's one blood draw every hour for three hours. Select your first meal after the fast carefully. Do this at least a week before you're scheduled to fast for the glucose tolerance test. Schedule the test early in the day. If you schedule the glucose tolerance test in the afternoon then you're wide awake, most likely moving around and are used to eating and drinking so you'll be more hungry.
Telephone (08) 9340 1370. Glucose Tolerance Test After fasting overnight you will be asked to drink 75g of glucose (load). A blood test is taken before drinking the glucose solution and further samples are taken at one and two hours after the load. The GTT is a blood test that measures your body’s ability to use glucose.
1 One-step 2-hour oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT). 2  After a fasting glucose level is measured, a woman is given a 75-gram dose of glucose to drink and her glucose levels are measured at 1 hour and 2 hours after the dose. 3  Only one of the values needs to be above a cutoff value for diagnosis. 4  Two-step. 
In general, it is recommended that you fast (nothing to eat or drink except water) for at least 8 hours before having a blood glucose test. For people with diabetes, glucose levels are often checked both while fasting and after meals to provide the best control of diabetes. 
Generally, before a lipid or a glucose tolerance test, you’ll be told to fast for eight hours. However, your healthcare provider may advise you differently. Always follow his/her instructions to the letter. 
Instructions. Do a trial fast to see how you react. If you're in the habit of eating every 4 hours, try missing a meal and see how you feel. Do this at least a week before you're scheduled to fast for the glucose tolerance test. Schedule the test early in the day. If you schedule the glucose tolerance test in the afternoon then you're wide awake, most likely moving around and are used to eating and drinking so you'll be more hungry.
Prior to the taking the glucose tolerance test, your doctor will ask you to make sure and eat at least 150mg of carbohydrates (about what you will get from a slice or two of bread) for three days prior to the time you will be asked to fast. No fasting is required prior to this test. The test evaluates how your body processes sugar. A high level in your blood may indicate your body is not processing sugar effectively (positive test). If the results of this screen are positive, the woman may have the Glucose Tolerance Test performed.
Fasting blood glucose test. Do not eat or drink anything except water for 8 to 10 hours before a fasting blood glucose test. These are used to diagnose diabetes, a condition caused by too much glucose (sugar) in the blood. 
You’ll fast for at least 8 hours -- but not more than 16 -- the night before you take the test. When you get to the doctor’s office, he’ll test your fasting blood sugar. Afterward, you’ll get 75 grams of glucose (100 grams for pregnant women), usually in the form of a sweet-tasting liquid that you drink.