This chameleon is an introduced species in Hawaii, where it is invasive in the local ecosystem. There is a breeding population established on Maui. It can also be found in the wild in Florida, where escaped pets have established populations. The female is shorter, no more than about 35 centimeters, but it has a thicker body. Both sexes have a casque on the head which grows larger as the chameleon matures, reaching about 5 centimeters in the largest adults. Newly hatched young are pastel green in color and develop stripes as they grow.
C hameleons are a type of reptile. The scientific name for the chameleon is Chamaeleo Zeylanicus. Chameleons are part of the Anamalia kingdom, Chordata phylum, the class Reptilia, Squamata is the order, it is in the family called Chamaeleonidae, genus is Chamaeleo, an the species it belongs to is Zeylanicus.
Chameleons or chamaeleons (family Chamaeleonidae) are a distinctive and highly specialized clade of old world lizards with 202 species described as of June 2015. These species come in a range of colours, and many species have the ability to change colours. Clutch sizes can also vary greatly among the same species. Eggs generally hatch after four to 12 months, again depending on species. The eggs of Parson's chameleon (Calumma parsonii), a species which is rare in captivity, are believed to take more than 24 months to hatch.
The veiled chameleon (Chamaeleo calyptratus) is a species of chameleon native to the Arabian Peninsula in Yemen and Saudi Arabia. Other common names include cone-head chameleon and Yemen chameleon. The female is shorter, no more than about 35 centimeters, but it has a thicker body. Both sexes have a casque on the head which grows larger as the chameleon matures, reaching about 5 centimeters in the largest adults. Newly hatched young are pastel green in color and develop stripes as they grow.
chameleon. (kəmē`lēən, –mēl`yən) , small-to medium-sized lizard of the family Chamaeleonidae. More than 150 species are found in sub-Saharan Africa, with a few in S Europe and S Asia. The so-called common chameleon, Chamaeleo chamaeleon, is found around the Mediterranean.
Chameleons are a group of over one hundred lizard species living in Madagascar, Africa, Asia, and Europe. They are famous for the ability to change color, first noted in the third century b.c.e. by Aristotle. In most cases, chameleons are brown, green, or yellow. 
The chameleon is a very distinctive and well-known species of lizard, due to the large eyes and curled tail of the chameleon. Chameleons are found throughout jungle and desert alike, in Africa, Asia and parts of Southern Europe and chameleons have also been introduced to parts of North America. There are thought to be more than 160 different species of chameleon that range from just an inch to more than a couple of feet in size. The largest species of chameleon, the Malagasy giant chameleon, is also natively found in the jungles of Madagascar and can grow to nearly 70 cm in length.
Chameleon Facts. Chameleon is a type of lizard. There are around 160 species of chameleons which can be found mostly on the Madagascar (half of all species live there), in the Africa, southern Europe, south Asia and Sri Lanka. 
A chameleon is a small reptile of the lizard family, which can change its colour in response to sickness, changes in temperature, or instinctive responses such as fear and agg … ression. A phylum is the taxonomical rank below kingdom and above class. The kingdom Animalia contains approximately 40 phyla. Organisms are grouped into phyla based on a general body … plan. For example, the phylum Chordata contains all those animals with a spinal cord.
chameleon. chameleon (kəmēˈlēən, –mēlˈyən) [ key ], small-to medium-sized lizard of the family Chamaeleonidae. More than 150 species are found in sub-Saharan Africa, with a few in S Europe and S Asia. The so-called common chameleon, Chamaeleo chamaeleon, is found around the Mediterranean. Chameleons have laterally flattened bodies and bulging, independently rotating eyes.