Dr. Mitchell's Overview. Dr. Sharon J. Mitchell graduated from the Des Moines University College of Osteopathic Medicine in 1988. She works in Port Huron, MI and 2 other locations and specializes in Family Medicine. Dr. Mitchell is affiliated with Lake Huron Medical Center, McLaren Port Huron Hospital, Munson Healthcare Grayling Hospital and St John River District Hospital.
1209 10th St Ste D, Port Huron, MI 48060. Services Sharon Mitchell, DO offers family practice services in Port Huron, MI. A family doctor is typically a general practitioner who treats most family members from children to adults. Sharon Mitchell, DO in Port Huron, MI may treat physical symptoms, prescribe medications, diagnose conditions and much more. About. Sharon Mitchell, DO practices as a Family Doctor in Port Huron, MI.She graduated from Des Moines Univ, Coll Osteo Med & Surg, Des Moines Ia 50312.
Overview. Dr. Sharon Mitchell is a family medicine doctor in Port Huron, Michigan and is affiliated with multiple hospitals in the area, including Port Huron Hospital and St. John Hospital and Medical Center. 
Sharon Mitchell was born on January 18, 1956 in New Jersey, USA. She is an actress and director, known for Maniac (1980), Kamikaze Hearts (1986) and 52 Pick-Up (1986). 
Dr. Sharon Mitchell, PhD, MPH, CDS, is a recognized sexual health expert and educator, regularly interviewed by newspapers, periodicals, and television and radio shows, including The New York Times, The Los Angeles Times, The Washington Post, USA Today, Newsweek, CNN, 20/20, NPR, MTV, and KROQ. 
Additional Information. Dr. Sharon Sonia Mitchell MD is a female Family Practitioner, has 25 years of experience and practices in Family Medicine. Dr. Sharon Mitchell practices Family Medicine near Fayetteville, NC.
Dr. Sharon Mitchell, MD http://d1ffafozi03i4l.cloudfront.net/img/silhouettes/silhouette-female_w120h160_v1.jpg Visit Healthgrades for information on Dr. Sharon Mitchell, MD. Patients’ risk of dying during a hospital stay for heart bypass surgery could be 85.2% lower, on average, at a hospital rated 5 stars compared to a hospital rated 1 star for that procedure. Choosing the right hospital is critical to your health.
Actress | Director | Producer. Sharon Mitchell was born on January 18, 1956 in New Jersey, USA. She is an actress and director, known for Maniac (1980), Kamikaze Hearts (1986) and 52 Pick-Up (1986). See full bio ». 
Sharon Mitchell is an American sexologist and former pornographic film actor. In 1998, she founded the Adult Industry Medical Health Care Foundation (AIM), which tested over 1,000 adult film performers per month before a 2011 information leak led to a lawsuit and the clinic's closure. Mitchell worked with Golden Age production companies such as AVC, Caballero Home Video, Essex Video, Gourmet Video Collection, Leisure Time Entertainment, VCA Pictures, VCX, and the Zane Entertainment Group as well as contemporary studios such as Vivid Entertainment.