Rice cookers are a fantastic kitchen appliance that can cook more than just rice. If you're wanting to steam, boil, or cook food and don't have the room on your stove to do so, think outside the box and use a rice cooker. Ad
3. Soft or Hard boiled eggs – this is my FAVORITE thing to make in my rice cooker. It’s so much easier than waiting for a pot of water to boil. Plus, these steamed eggs are so easy to peel. To make eggs in your rice cooker, just add one cup of water into the rice container and then place eggs in your steamer basket. Cook for 12-14 minutes for soft boiled eggs and 17-20 minutes for hard boiled eggs. These times are based on my rice cooker, so you may need to adjust according to your model. 4. Steamed Veggies – use a steamer rack for veggies, potatoes, etc. My rice cooker comes with a steamer basket. 5.
You will want to set the timer and cook (steam) the eggs for about 25 minutes. This cooking time is my preference; you might like your eggs more or less done. I have found that the 25-minute cooking time frame produces perfect eggs, with a beautiful creamy texture. The next step is to place your eggs into the steamer basket. You can either cook one egg, or a dozen – the end result will be the same. Perfectly cooked eggs. Cover, “flip the switch”, and walk away.
Eggs placed in top steaming basket above, 2 cups water below. 21 minutes to steam, prompt ice bath soak to follow. Chill & Enjoy. So I feel almost ridiculous writing a “how-to” on making hard boiled eggs in a rice maker. I mean, it’s so easy, I should just post a one-liner on facebook or twitter. 
Rice Cooker-Hard Boiled Eggs. One of the things I picked up at Costco was a new Rice Cooker. The one I have, well, I gave that to the Boy when he went away to college (so he could make his macaroni and cheese), not to mention, it was small as heck, like mini size! And of course, I've done the bring to boil, put a lid on it and let them sit for 10 minutes. Even Hubby is trained now for that. BUT what if you could simply add 2 cups water to the rice maker, put 6 to 12 eggs in the steamer basket.
Perfect Hard Boiled Eggs in the Rice Cooker. Making the perfect hard boiled egg just got easier if you own a rice cooker. Yes, you read that right. Rice Cooker = Perfect Egg. No broken eggs, leaky egg whites, grey tinged yolks. No more guess work. Perfect egg. Every. Time. Step 1. Fill bottom of rice cooker with 1 cup water. Step 2. 
If you need easy-to-peel eggs and you have fresh eggs, you might want to try steaming the eggs for 15 minutes. Pour an inch of water into a pot and insert a steamer basket.Bring to a boil. Place the eggs in the steamer basket, cover and steam for 15 minutes (more or less, check!). Depending on how cooked you like your hard boiled eggs, the eggs should be done perfectly in 10-12 minutes. That said, depending on your altitude, the shape of the pan, the size of the eggs, the ratio of water to eggs, it can take a few minutes more.
1 dozen eggs. 2 cups water. Add the water to the inner pot of your rice cooker. Place eggs in the Steam Tray and set to Steam for 10-15 minutes depending how you like your eggs. When the cooking cycle ends, cool down eggs under cold running water and place in the fridge. 
You can steam them for 20 minutes or place them in the bottom of the pot with enough water to cover them and set it to steam for 10 minutes. I add a little baking soda to my water and no matter how fresh the eggs were, the shells peeled right off. Last night we boiled eggs for salad and steamed lobster at the same time! 