First Vehicle with Internal Combustion Engine. Eventually, Karl Benz introduced the first ever vehicle powered by an internal combustion engine in 1885, and got a patent for it in the following year. Benz's invention was powered by a four-stroke cycle gasoline engine. A self propelled vehicle with an internal combustion engine! The broad definition of the term 'car' makes it quite difficult to answer one of the most intriguing questions in the world of automobiles-which was the first car ever made. If we go by the definition which states that a car is a motor vehicle with four wheels, it also includes cars with steam engines.
Energy Use and the Internal Combustion Engine. The first gasoline-fueled, four-stroke cycle engine was built in Germany in 1876. In 1886, Carl Benz began the first commercial production of motor vehicles with internal combustion engines. By the 1890s, motor cars reached their modern stage of development. 
The term internal combustion engine usually refers to an engine in which combustion is intermittent, such as the more familiar four-stroke and two-stroke piston engines, along with variants, such as the six-stroke piston engine and the Wankel rotary engine. Otto cycle: Otto cycle is the typical cycle for most of the cars internal combustion engines, that work using gasoline as a fuel. Otto cycle is exactly the same one that was described for the four-stroke engine. It consists of the same four major steps: Intake, compression, ignition and exhaust.
Because the first internal combustion engine was unreliable, many later pioneers made improvements of the first internal combustion engine. As a result many new engines were made. Such engines were the two and four stroke engine and the petrol engine. Siegfried Marcus in Austria in 1864 was able to create an engine that uses petrol as a fuel. The first internal combustion engine is the basic form for modern car engines. The first V-engine was invented by Gottlieb Daimler and Wilhelm Maybach in 1888. It was the first time that it was actually possible to give a measure for the angel between the cylinders-in this case it was just 17. The engine had 1050 cc and managed 4 bhp at 900 1/min.
The first hydrogen car invented was not a fuel cell vehicle (FCV) but rather an internal combustion engine. Swiss inventor Francois Isaac de Rivaz in 1807 designed the first 4-wheel prototype (pictured) that ran on hydrogen and oxygen gas. 
Although various forms of internal combustion engines were developed before the 19th century, their use was hindered until the commercial drilling and production of petroleum began in the mid-1850s. By the late 19th century, engineering advances led to their widespread adoption in a variety of applications. 1 According to Dugald Clerk, this was the first recorded use of in-cylinder compression. 2  1853-57: Eugenio Barsanti and Felice Matteucci invented and patented an engine using the free-piston principle that was possibly the first 4-cycle engine.
Lenoir made the first internal combustion engine that provides a reliable and continuous source of power, which was the gas engine using coal gas, in 1860, in France. The first practical internal combustion engine based heavily on experience from the production of steam engines. The first V-engine was invented by Gottlieb Daimler and Wilhelm Maybach in 1888. It was the first time that it was actually possible to give a measure for the angel between the cylinders-in this case it was just 17. The engine had 1050 cc and managed 4 bhp at 900 1/min.