15. The vascular cambium is the secondary meristematic tissue that forms the vascular tissues (xylem and phloem) of the plant in roots and in the stem. Usually, the outer side of the vascular cambium produces a layer of phloem and the inner (more central) side of the tissue produces a layer of xylem. Lateral, or secondary, meristems, consist of the cambium and the phellogen (also known as cork cambium). These are tissues in the stem, branches and roots that generate other tissues via mitosis. These tissues participate in the secondary growth of plant, that is, in the thickening of the stem, branches and roots.
1 APICAL meristems (located at the tips of roots and shoots) give rise to three PRIMARY MERISTEMS (protoderm, ground meristem, and procambium). 2  LATERAL MERSTEMS are cylindrical, secondary meristems in both stem and root that give rise to either vascular tissue or secondary dermal tissues. 3  They are the. 
Cork cambium (pl. cambia or cambiums) is a tissue found in many vascular plants as part of the periderm. The cork cambium is a lateral meristem and is responsible for secondary growth that replaces the epidermis in roots and stems. It is found in woody and many herbaceous dicots, gymnosperms and some monocots (although monocots usually lack secondary growth). It is one of the many layers of bark, between the cork and primary phloem. The function of cork cambium is to produce the cork, a tough protective material. Synonyms for cork cambium are bark cambium, pericambium and phellogen.
Vascular cambia are found in dicots and gymnosperms but not monocots, which usually lack secondary growth. A few leaf types also have a vascular cambium. Vascular cambium does not transport water, minerals, or dissolved food through the plant. It does, however, produce the phloem and xylem, which do perform these functions. For successful grafting, the vascular cambia of the rootstock and scion must be aligned so they can grow together.
The vascular cambium adds to secondary xylem and secondary phloem while the cork cambium gives rise to cork and secondary cortex. The vascular cambium is a remnant of the apic … al meristem while the cork cambium is a true secondary meristem which develops outside the vascular tissues. 14 people found this useful
Vascular cambium and cork cambium: These are referred to as secondary meristems because they produce secondary tissues, and increase the thickness of the plant body. This process is called secondary growth, seen in dicotyledons and gymnosperms. Parenchyma is the fundamental tissue of the plant body. It is found in every part of the plant body like pith and cortex of stem and root, mesophyll of leaves, flesh of fruits, floral parts and even in xylem and Phloem. Cells have thin primary walls and polyhedral shapes.
The vascular cambium then produces secondary xylem on the inside of the ring, and secondary phloem on the outside, pushing the primary xylem and phloem apart. Vascular cambium does not transport water, minerals, or dissolved food through the plant. It does, however, produce the phloem and xylem, which do perform these functions. For successful grafting, the vascular cambia of the rootstock and scion must be aligned so they can grow together.
The shoot tissues arise from the shoot apical meristem as dermal tissue, ground tissue, and vascular tissue. Secondary meristems (vascular cambium and cork cambium) then add girth to the plant by adding secondary xylem, phloem, and cork. Top of Page. Shoot Apical Meristem: the apical meristem includes the a group of dividing cells that give rise to three primary meristematic tissues, protoderm, ground meristem, and procambium. Top of Page Secondary Stem Tissues: In dicots and gymnosperms the majority of the plant tissue is composed of secondary vascular tissues. Top of Page Vascular Cambium: The vascular cambium is a layer of meristematic tissue that lies between the primary phloem and primary xylem. As the vascular cambium adds new xylem cells toward the inside of the stem and phloem cells toward the outside of the stem, the vascular bundles eventually coalesce to form a complete ring
The cambium present between primary xylem and primary phloem is called intrafasicular cambium. At the time of secondary growth, cells of meduallary rays, in a line with intrafasicular cambium, become meristematic and form interfasicular cambium. Vascular cambium does not transport water, minerals, or dissolved food through the plant. It does, however, produce the phloem and xylem, which do perform these functions. For successful grafting, the vascular cambia of the rootstock and scion must be aligned so they can grow together.