Cnidarians (Cnidaria) are a group of aquatic animals that includes jellyfish, corals, sea anemones, and hydras. The basic form of the cnidarian body is quite simple and consists of a gastrovascular cavity with a single opening through which food is ingested and waste is released. The body wall of cnidarians consists of an outer layer or epidermis, an inner layer or gastrodermis, and a middle layer or mesoglea. Cnidarians lack organs and posses a primitive nervous system known as a neural net.
There are two types (or body plans) of cnidarians. There is the Medusa, which is a Jellyfish, really. And there is a Polyp, which is like an upside-down Jellyfish, if you want it simply. A polyp would be your sea anemone or coral. They spend most of their lives attached to a hard surface underwater. 
Cnidaria is a phylum containing over 9,000 species found only in aquatic and mostly marine environments. All cnidarians have radial symmetrical. There are two major body forms among the Cnidaria-the polyp and the medusa. Sea anemones and corals have the polyp form, while jellyfish are typical medusae. When you look at them, you can see that these body forms are the same except that one is upside down
Related Resources. They may look like day-glo flora, but cnidarians are actually carnivorous fauna. Cnidarians are either polyps, such as sea anemones or coral, or free-floating medusae, such as jellyfish. Polyps have a tube-like body with an opening on top that is surrounded by outward-and upward-facing tentacles. 
Both forms have a single orifice and body cavity that are used for digestion and respiration. Many cnidarian species produce colonies that are single organisms composed of medusa-like or polyp-like zooids, or both. Cnidarians' activities are coordinated by a decentralized nerve net and simple receptors. Several free-swimming Cubozoa and Scyphozoa possess balance-sensing statocysts, and some have simple eyes. Like sponges and ctenophores, cnidarians have two main layers of cells that sandwich a middle layer of jelly-like material, which is called the mesoglea in cnidarians; more complex animals have three main cell layers and no intermediate jelly-like layer.
Two body forms are characteristic of cnidarians -- the polyp and the medusa. With a few exceptions, a columnar polyp is sedentary, being attached to or burrowed into the substratum by the end opposite the mouth. The exclusively aquatic phylum Cnidaria is represented by polyps such as sea anemones and corals, and by medusae such as jellyfish. A polypoid or a medusoid cnidarian is a radially or biradially symmetrical, uncephalized animal with a single body opening,
Cnidarians are radially symmetrical and they have tentacles that encircle their mouth. The body wall of cnidarians consists of an outer layer or epidermis, an inner layer or gastrodermis, and a middle layer or mesoglea. Cnidarians lack organs and posses a primitive nervous system known as a neural net. Cnidarians exhibit two basic structural forms, a medusa and a polyp. The medusa form is a free-swimming structure which consists of an umbrella-shaped body (called a bell), a fringe of tentacles that hang from the edge of the bell, a mouth opening located on the underside of the bell, and a gastrovascular cavity
Cnidarians all have some type of specialized stinging cell organelle. Cnidarians' bodies typically take one of two forms: the polyp or the medusa. While the polyp form is adapted for a sedentary or sessile lifestyle, the medusa form is adapted for floating or free-swimming. Sea anemones and corals (class Anthoza) are all polyps
Cnidarians take on two basic forms, a medusa and a polyp. The medusa form is a free-swimming structure which consists of an umbrella-shaped body (called a bell), a fringe of tentacles that hang from the edge of the bell, a mouth opening located on the underside of the bell, and a gastrovascular cavity. 
Cnidaria A phylum that comprises the sea anemones, jellyfish, and corals, and which is known from the late Precambrian. Cnidarians are basically radially symmetrical and have tentacles. The body contains a gastrovascular cavity and the body wall is diploblastic. Cnidarians occur as two distinct types: polyps and medusae, which in many taxa constitute alternating generations. All are aquatic and most are marine. Two body forms and two lifestyles are characteristic of the Cnidaria (see polyp and medusa). The sessile hydroid, or polyp, form is more or less cylindrical, attached to its substratum at its aboral (opposite the mouth) end, with the mouth and surrounding tentacles at the upper, oral, free end.