Back to Top Causes. This type of pneumonia is caused by the fungus Pneumocystis jiroveci. This fungus is common in the environment and does not cause illness in healthy people. However, it can cause a lung infection in people with a weakened immune system due to: 1  Cancer. 
Overview of Pneumocystis jiroveci Pneumonia. Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia (PJP), formerly known as Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP), is the most common opportunistic infection in persons with HIV infection. Currently, the frequency of documented Pneumocystis infection is increasing in Africa, with Pneumocystis organisms found in up to 80% of infants with pneumonia who have HIV infection. In sub-Saharan Africa, tuberculosis is a common co-infection in persons with PJP.
Pneumocystis jirovecii is a yeast-like fungus of the genus Pneumocystis. The causative organism of Pneumocystis pneumonia, it is an important human pathogen, particularly among immunocompromised hosts. Prior to its discovery as a human-specific pathogen, P. jiroveci was known as P. carinii.
Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) is an opportunistic infection that occurs in immunosuppressed populations, primarily patients with advanced human immunodeficiency virus infection. Before the epidemic of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) in the early 1980s, Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) was a rare infection that occurred in immunosuppressed patients with protein malnutrition or acute lymphocytic leukemia, or in patients receiving corticosteroid therapy.
Pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP) is a form of pneumonia, caused by the yeast-like fungus Pneumocystis jirovecii. Pneumocystis pneumonia is not commonly found in the lungs of healthy people, but, being a source of opportunistic infection, it can cause a lung infection in people with a weak immune system. The older species name Pneumocystis carinii (which now applies only to the Pneumocystis species that is found in rats) is still in common usage. As a result, Pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP) is also known as Pneumocystis jiroveci[i] pneumonia and (incorrectly) as Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia.
Pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP) is a serious infection that causes inflammation and fluid buildup in the lungs. It is caused by a fungus called Pneumocystis jiroveci. Likely spread through the air, this fungus is very common. Most people are exposed to it by age 3 or 4. A healthy immune system can easily control it. 1 About 9% of patients with HIV/AIDS who are hospitalized have PCP. 2  PCP is still a major cause of death in AIDS patients in the United States. 3  The mortality rate is between 5% and 40%, even with treatment. 4  PCP is a highly treatable and preventable infection.
: a pneumonia chiefly affecting immunocompromised individuals that is caused by a microorganism (Pneumocystis carinii syn. P. jiroveci), attacks especially the interstitial and alveolar tissues of the lungs, and is characterized especially by a nonproductive cough, shortness of breath, and fever —abbreviation PCP. 
Pneumocystis pneumonia. Pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP) is a serious illness caused by the fungus Pneumocystis jirovecii. PCP is one of the most frequent and severe opportunistic infections in people with weakened immune systems, particularly people with HIV/AIDS