Instructions. Plant catalpa seeds in a garden area. Grow the catalpa seedlings for 1 to 2 years in the garden. Transplant catalpa seedlings in the winter. Cover the roots with a 2 inches of thick, organic mulch. Fertilize the seedlings and water them frequently. Keep the area free from weeds and competitive plants. Allow catalpa worms to nest in the trees
THE CATALPA SPHINX is a common hawk or sphinx moth, (Photo 1) but it is the caterpillar stage, (Photo 2), that is most often encountered and best known. The caterpillars, commonly called catalpa worms or catawba worms, feed on leaves of catalpa and often completely strip trees of foliage. Southern catalpa is the species common to Alabama. The tree is native to the southern states and occurs naturally along rivers and margins of swamps (3). It is a medium-sized tree with broad crown, large leaves, and show white, purple-tinted flowers.
While the catalpa worm is well known as a tree pest, it may be as well or better known to some for its attractiveness to fish. The caterpillars have long been valued for fish bait, and references to their collection by fishermen date back at least to the 1870's when the species was first described (1). Southern catalpa is the species common to Alabama. The tree is native to the southern states and occurs naturally along rivers and margins of swamps (3). It is a medium-sized tree with broad crown, large leaves, and show white, purple-tinted flowers.
The rest of the country in the other areas will need to select FedEx 2 Day Air at a minimum. They are as good frozen, as they are fresh off the tree. Catalpa Worms come from the Catalpa tree mostly in the southern regions of the country. These worms infest the tree and eat the leaves several times a year. Some people consider them as pests to the environment, but fisherman will search far and wide to get these prize catfish attractors. 
Catalpa, commonly called catalpa or catawba, is a genus of flowering plants in the family Bignoniaceae, native to warm temperate regions of North America, the Caribbean, and East Asia. 
Catalpa Worms. Catalpa worms, also known as catawbas, are the caterpillar stage of the Sphinx moth. They attack catalpa trees and are recognized pests in many areas. However, catalpa worms are prized as catfish bait and some growers nurture trees just for harvesting and sales to fishermen. Like many other caterpillars, catalpas spend the winter underground in the pupae stage. Catalpa worms can also be frozen and returned to their live state when thawed. Just add them to sawdust or cornmeal in a glass jar, seal it, and place in the freezer. Let them warm up slowly and catalpa worms are ready to bring home the catch!
Catalpa speciosa, commonly known as the northern catalpa, hardy catalpa, western catalpa, cigar tree, and catawba-tree, is a species of Catalpa native to the midwestern United States. 
Help! catalpa worms!!!! Last year, the catalpa tree by my fathers garden was infested with catalpa worms; they killed the whole tree! And some got in thew garden and began eating some plants when the tree had no more leaves. My parents didnt know how to get rid of the them, so they just let them eat the tree/ my mom ended up filling up 2...