Despite Germany’s claim that the terms of the treaty were far too harsh, most historians today agree that the terms, in fact were “relatively lenient.” 30 Henig alludes to this earlier in her book, when she concludes that “the Treaty of Versailles was not excessively harsh on Germany. 
Compared to the treaties which Germany had imposed on defeated Russia and Romania in 1918, the Treaty of Versailles was quite moderate. It stripped Germany of just over 13 per cent of its territory, much of which, in the shape of Alsace and Lorraine, was returned to France. 
In 1919 the Allies had assembled the Treaty of Versailles. Germany were not invited to the meetings that were held to discuss the terms of the treaty. The treaty was presented to Germany and they had no other choice but to sign it as they Allies threatened them with war. Despite Wilson's belief in a fair treaty, the Treaty of Versailles was a peace that was designed to weaken Germany. The French particularly wanted this to decrease the chances of Germany attacking them in the future.
Beacause The Treaty of Versailles was the peace settlement with  Germany; it was very harsh. ... accept blame for starting the war  .... debt, Germans were deeply embittered … by the harsh terms of the  Treaty. France wanted it to be harsh so Germany would be in too crippled a  position to ever do anything like they did in WW1. Sadly, it did  not and some even consider that it was … one of the causes that led  to WW2. 5 people found this useful.
By contrast, Georges Clemenceau wanted a harsh peace. He wanted to make Germany pay. The French desire to crush Germany was based on the fact that the war had taken place on French soil and a history of Germany invading France (1870-71). 
It ended the state of war between Germany and the Allied Powers. It was signed on 28 June 1919, exactly five years after the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand. The other Central Powers on the German side of World War I were dealt with in separate treaties. Although the armistice, signed on 11 November 1918, ended the actual fighting, it took six months of negotiations at the Paris Peace Conference to conclude the peace treaty.
The terms of the Treaty of Versailles were announced in June 1919. The German politicians were not consulted about the terms of the Treaty. They were shown the draft terms in May 1919. They complained bitterly, but the Allies did not take any notice of their complaints. 
This is because, the German economy in 1918 was in ruins due to war, not Versailles. The Treaty of Versailles, was not too harsh, but rather a failure, in that Britain and France, ignored its conditions in the lead up to war in 1939. They stood by and allowed Germany to unite with Austria, and stood by when German troops marched into the Rhineland. 
World War I officially ended with the signing of the Treaty of Versailles on June 28, 1919. Negotiated among the Allied powers with little participation by Germany, its 15 parts and 440 articles reassigned German boundaries and assigned liability for reparations. Treaty of Versailles Ends World War I. German resentment over harsh peace terms leads to a rise in nationalist sentiment and the eventual rise to power of Adolf Hitler.