The type of decay that a nuclide will typically undergo can be determined by its relationship to the line of stability on the Chart of the Nuclides. Nuclides that lie below and to the right of the line of stability will typically beta minus decay.
Alpha decay is one type of radioactive decay, in which an atomic nucleus emits an alpha particle, and thereby transforms (or decays) into an atom with a mass number decreased by 4 and atomic number decreased by 2.
Beta decay. Beta decay itself comes in two kinds: β + and β - . β - emission occurs by the transformation of one of the nucleus’s neutrons into a proton, an electron and an antineutrino. Byproducts of fission from nuclear reactors often undergo β - decay as they are likely to have an excess of neutrons.
There are three main types of radioactive decay: alpha, beta, and gamma. Let's pause here a minute to define decay.. When an element decays the parent element's nucleus changes-it will actually decay to turn into a different daughter element altogether!
The instability in the nucleus will eventually result in some kind of nucl … ear change (depending on the atom), and we call this radioactive or nuclear decay.   Different radionuclides undergo different types of decay that include spontaneous fission, alpha decay and beta decay.
RADIOACTIVITY. Radioactive nuclides tend to decay in a way that results in a daughter nuclide that lies closer to the line of stability. Due to this, it is possible to predict the type of decay that a nuclide will undergo based on its location relative to the line of stability on the Chart of the Nuclides. Figure 9 illustrates the type of decay nuclides in different regions of the chart will typically undergo. Nuclides that are below and to the right of the line of stability will usually undergo decay. Nuclides that are above and to the left of the line of stability will usually undergo either decay or electron capture.
Radioactive decay, also known as nuclear decay or radioactivity, is the process by which a nucleus of an unstable atom loses energy by emitting radiation. A material that spontaneously emits such radiation — which includes alpha particles, beta particles, gamma rays and conversion electrons — is considered radioactive.