1 Dip both sides of the medallions in seasoning mix. 2  Melt butter and oil together in the same skillet over medium-high heat. 3  Cook each medallion for 4 minutes on each side. 4  Place skillet into the preheated oven and bake until the pork is no longer pink in the center, 17 to 20 minutes. 1 Melt butter and oil together in the same skillet over medium-high heat. 2  Cook each medallion for 4 minutes on each side. 3
1 Preheat an oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C). 2  Place the bacon in a large, oven-safe skillet, and cook over medium-high heat, turning occasionally, until lightly browned and still flexible, 6 to 7 minutes. 3  Drain the bacon slices on a paper towel-lined plate. 4  Remove any excess bacon grease from the skillet. Cook. Ready In. 1  Preheat an oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C). 2  Place the bacon in a large, oven-safe skillet, and cook over medium-high heat, turning occasionally, until lightly browned and still flexible, 6 to 7 minutes. 3  Drain the bacon slices on a paper towel-lined plate
Place the medallions in the baking pan and pour the marinade over them. Place the pan in the oven, uncovered, and roast the medallions for 15 to 20 minutes, or until an instant-read thermometer inserted into the center of the meat reads 140 degrees Fahrenheit. Marinated pork medallions roast to a tender, juicy finish in the oven. Purchase pre-marinated pork medallions or make your own marinade to add flavor to the meat.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Make the glaze: Put garlic and rosemary in a small bowl. Add the vinegar, honey, olive oil, mustard, and salt and pepper, to taste, and stir to combine. For the pork: Slice the tenderloin into 1-inch thick medallions (rounds). Cover the bottom of a medium skillet with a light film of canola oil and heat over medium-high heat until hot. Add the pork slices in 1 layer, season with salt and pepper, and sear for 1 minute. Turn and sear for 1 more minute, until lightly browned. Transfer the slices in 1 layer to a shallow baking dish.
Place into the refrigerator for 30 minutes. Remove the meat from the refrigerator 20 minutes prior to cooking. Preheat the oven to 400 degrees. Coat an OVEN proof skillet with cooking spray and heat over medium heat. Once the pan is hot, add the pork medallions and cook for 2-3 minutes or until golden brown. Flip the pork over, add the reserved marinade to the pan along with the 2 tablespoons of chicken broth, then place the pan into the oven and cook for 13-15 minutes or until pork is cooked through. Remove from the oven. 
1 Melt butter and oil together in the same skillet over medium-high heat. 2  Cook each medallion for 4 minutes on each side. 3  Place skillet into the preheated oven and bake until the pork is no longer pink in the center, 17 to 20 minutes. Cook. Ready In. 1  Preheat an oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C). 2  Place the bacon in a large, oven-safe skillet, and cook over medium-high heat, turning occasionally, until lightly browned and still flexible, 6 to 7 minutes. 3  Drain the bacon slices on a paper towel-lined plate
1 Preheat an oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C). 2  Place the bacon in a large, oven-safe skillet, and cook over medium-high heat, turning occasionally, until lightly browned and still flexible, 6 to 7 minutes. 3  Drain the bacon slices on a paper towel-lined plate. 4  Remove any excess bacon grease from the skillet. 1 Melt butter and oil together in the same skillet over medium-high heat. 2  Cook each medallion for 4 minutes on each side. 3  Place skillet into the preheated oven and bake until the pork is no longer pink in the center, 17 to 20 minutes.
Roast for 8 to 10 minutes, until a thermometer inserted reaches 140 degrees F for medium. Remove from the oven and keep warm, loosely covered until ready to serve. To serve place pork medallions on a platter and spoon the balsamic-honey glaze over them. Garnish the platter with the rosemary sprigs. Cover the bottom of a medium skillet with a light film of canola oil and heat over medium-high heat until hot. Add the pork slices in 1 layer, season with salt and pepper, and sear for 1 minute. Turn and sear for 1 more minute, until lightly browned. Transfer the slices in 1 layer to a shallow baking dish.
1 Dip both sides of the medallions in seasoning mix. 2  Melt butter and oil together in the same skillet over medium-high heat. 3  Cook each medallion for 4 minutes on each side. 4  Place skillet into the preheated oven and bake until the pork is no longer pink in the center, 17 to 20 minutes. Cook. Ready In. 1  Preheat an oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C). 2  Place the bacon in a large, oven-safe skillet, and cook over medium-high heat, turning occasionally, until lightly browned and still flexible, 6 to 7 minutes. 3  Drain the bacon slices on a paper towel-lined plate