DRUG DESCRIPTION. The active ingredient in DALIRESP tablets is roflumilast. Roflumilast and its active metabolite (roflumilast Noxide) are selective phosphodiesterase 4 (PDE4) inhibitors. The chemical name of roflumilast is N-(3,5- dichloropyridin-4-yl)-3-cyclopropylmethoxy-4-difluoromethoxy-benzamide. 
†For roflumilast N-oxide. Strong inducers of the CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 enzyme systems, including rifampicin, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and phenytoin ↓ blood levels and effectiveness; concurrent use should be avoided. 
INDICATIONS. DALIRESP® is indicated as a treatment to reduce the risk of COPD exacerbations in patients with severe COPD associated with chronic bronchitis and a history of exacerbations. Dosage Forms And Strengths. DALIRESP is supplied as white to off-white, round tablets, embossed with “D” on one side and “500” on the other side. Each tablet contains 500 mcg of roflumilast. DALIRESP is supplied as white to off-white, round tablets, embossed with “D” on one side and “500” on the other side.
Roflumilast reduces inflammation in the lungs that leads to COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease). Roflumilast is used to prevent worsening of symptoms in people with severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Roflumilast is not a bronchodilator. It will not treat a bronchospasm attack that has already begun. Roflumilast may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. You should not use roflumilast if you are allergic to it, or if you have moderate or severe liver disease. To make sure you can safely take roflumilast, tell your doctor if you have any of these other conditions: 1  liver disease; 2  a history of depression, mental illness, or suicidal thoughts or actions.
Enter Your Email Address. CLICK HERE to learn more about from eMedTV.com. Daliresp™ (roflumilast) is a prescription medication used to treat severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Unlike most COPD medications that are available as inhalers, Daliresp comes in tablet form and is taken just once a day. When and How to Take It. 1  Daliresp comes in tablet form. 2  It is usually taken by mouth once a day. 3  Try to take your dose at the same time each day to keep an even level in your blood. 4  You can take this medication with or without food. 5  For this medicine to work properly, it must be taken as prescribed.
Daliresp can cause serious side effects. See Daliresp Precautions section. The most common side effects include: 1  diarrhea. 2  weight loss. 3  nausea. 4  headache. 5  back pain. 6  flu like symptoms. 1 Take Daliresp exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it. 2  Daliresp can be taken with or without food. 3  If you take more than your prescribed dose of Daliresp, call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away.
General Information. Daliresp (roflumilast) is a selective phosphodiesterase 4 (PDE4) inhibitor. Inhibition of PDE4 activity reduces the release of inflammation mediators and can counteract damage to tissue, allowing respiratory muscles to relax and therefore potentially improving lung function. Daliresp Drug Information. The Daliresp drug information shown above is licensed from Thomson CenterWatch. The information provided here is for general educational purposes only and does not constitute medical or pharmaceutical advice which should be sought from qualified medical and pharmaceutical advisers.