Clue: True Blood actress. True Blood actress is a crossword puzzle clue that we have spotted 1 time. There are related clues (shown below)
Tara Buck is an American film, stage and television actress. Tara has built a solid reputation for her raw portrayal of the underdogs in life, whose stories are less often told. She is widely known as a powerhouse transformative character actress who has built an eclectic resume that runs the gamut from tragedy, comedy, farce, to fantasy. Whether ... See full bio »
Tara is best known for her role as Ginger, on HBO's gritty Southern vampire drama, True Blood. She first appeared in season one of the series as a guest star but due to Tara's creative take on this hilariously tragic character she remained on the series for the entire seven seasons of the show. Tara lives in Southern California with her husband Chris Pierce who is a professional musician. In addition to the arts, they both share a passion for wine and are co-owners of a boutique wine label called Ledbetter. Ledbetter wines can be found in some of the best restaurants in California.
[{{{twitter}}} Twitter]. [[:Category:{{{Images}}}|Images]]. Tara Buck, born March 16, 1975 in Idaho, is an American actress who plays the role of Ginger on the HBO original series True Blood. Making her debut on the episode  The Fourth Man in the Fire  in the series' first season, Tara plays the role of a human that waitressed at the vampire nightclub Fangtasia. Tara L. Buck has experience playing parts in numerous TV series such as Bones and The X-Files. She was born on March 16, 1975 in Idaho.
Alcide and Sookie go to Sookie's bedroom but are interrupted by Eric and Bill. Sookie helps Eric and Bill find Russell by reading the mind of a witness to Russell being dug up who had previously been glamoured into forgetting the event. Sookie reluctantly agrees, and finds out that she has to listen in on the minds of humans, who Eric suspects of embezzling money from the club. Sookie discovers through human Ginger 's (Tara Buck) mind that it was vampire bartender Longshadow (Raoul Trujillo), embezzling the money.
Sookie Stackhouse is a fictional character and protagonist of The Southern Vampire Mysteries book series, written by Charlaine Harris. Sookie reluctantly agrees, and finds out that she has to listen in on the minds of humans, who Eric suspects of embezzling money from the club. Sookie discovers through human Ginger 's (Tara Buck) mind that it was vampire bartender Longshadow (Raoul Trujillo), embezzling the money.
[[:Category:|Images]]. Bucky Featherstone is a loyal human who serves the Vampire King of Louisiana on the HBO original series True Blood. Played by American co-starring actor Brandon Molale, Bucky makes his debut on the episode  She's Not There  at the beginning of the series' fourth season. ― Bill Compton, to Bucky Featherstone. Bucky Featherstone is a loyal human who serves the Vampire King of Louisiana on the HBO original series True Blood. Played by American co-starring actor Brandon Molale, Bucky makes his debut on the episode  She's Not There  at the beginning of the series' fourth season.
Official Photos ». Anna Paquin was born in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada, in 1982, to Mary (Brophy), an English teacher from Wellington, New Zealand, and Brian Paquin, a Canadian phys-ed teacher of part French-Canadian descent. Anna moved to her mother's native country when she was four years old. Her first acting job ever was at age nine in the film The Piano (1993), ...
Tara has built a solid reputation for her raw portrayal of the underdogs in life, whose stories are less often told. She is widely known as a powerhouse transformative character actress who has built an eclectic resume that runs the gamut from tragedy, comedy, farce, to fantasy. Tara lives in Southern California with her husband Chris Pierce who is a professional musician. In addition to the arts, they both share a passion for wine and are co-owners of a boutique wine label called Ledbetter. Ledbetter wines can be found in some of the best restaurants in California.