Common Red Wolf (Canis lupus rufus) Florida Red Wolf (Canis lupus floridanus) Swamp Wolf (Canis lupus gregoryi) Eurasian Gray Wolves It is believed that European Wolves evolved around 150,000 years ago, about the same time as North American Wolves. Asian Wolves, however, are believed to have originated long before. North American Gray Wolves. Once abundant throughout North America, wolves have over the past 200 years felt a constant impact of the Human Population. Even today, their number continues to dwindle as they are forced into smaller and smaller habitat.
1 The Common Wolf is also known as the Gray Wolf. 2  This is the type of wolf that most people are familiar with. 3  Arctic Wolf. 4  No other wolf in the world can offer the same coloring as the Arctic Wolf. 5  It is very unique due to the location where it is found. 1 No other wolf in the world can offer the same coloring as the Arctic Wolf. 2  It is very unique due to the location where it is found. 3  Red Wolf. 4  The name of the Red Wolf stems from the fact that they can have a reddish coat on them. 5  It is often a cinnamon shade of red.
Mexican Gray (Canis Lupus Baileyi) the rarest, most genetically distinct subspecies of the gray wolf, found in areas are Texas, Northeast Mexico and also other North America areas. Canadian Wolf (Canis Lupus nubilus) also known as Eastern Canadian Wolf, or Eastern Canadian Red Wolf or Red Nosed Canadian. They come from the area in and around Algonquin Provincial Park in Ontario, also parts of Quebec, Canada, Minnesota and Manitoba.
The Myth about Conservation Status of Wolves. The fact that gray wolf is enlisted as a Least Concern (LC) species in the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List puts forth a wrong picture about the conservation status of this animal. While the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) considers the wolves as a 'Least Concern' species, a look at the list of different types of wolves reveals that some sub-species of this animal are fighting for their basic survival, while quite a few have already become extinct. Advertisement.
1 This is the type of wolf that most people are familiar with. 2  Arctic Wolf. 3  No other wolf in the world can offer the same coloring as the Arctic Wolf. 4  It is very unique due to the location where it is found. 5  Red Wolf. 6  The name of the Red Wolf stems from the fact that they can have a reddish coat on them. 1 No other wolf in the world can offer the same coloring as the Arctic Wolf. 2  It is very unique due to the location where it is found. 3  Red Wolf. 4  The name of the Red Wolf stems from the fact that they can have a reddish coat on them. 5  It is often a cinnamon shade of red.
1 Gray Wolf. 2  The Common Wolf is also known as the Gray Wolf. 3  This is the type of wolf that most people are familiar with. 4  Arctic Wolf. 5  No other wolf in the world can offer the same coloring as the Arctic Wolf. 6  It is very unique due to the location where it is found. 1 No other wolf in the world can offer the same coloring as the Arctic Wolf. 2  It is very unique due to the location where it is found. 3  Red Wolf. 4  The name of the Red Wolf stems from the fact that they can have a reddish coat on them. 5  It is often a cinnamon shade of red.
Types Of Wolves. Learn more about the different Types Of Wolves. Wolf (Canis lupus) is part of Phylum Chordate, Subphylum Vertebrata, class Mammalia. The family Canidae included three genera Canis with eight speci
While those were the extant sub-species of wolves, here's a list of those sub-species which became extinct as a result of numerous factors including loss of habitat and large-scale hunting. While the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) considers the wolves as a 'Least Concern' species, a look at the list of different types of wolves reveals that some sub-species of this animal are fighting for their basic survival, while quite a few have already become extinct. Advertisement.
Types Of Wolves | Three Wolf Types. Though there are many subspecies of wolf but generally there are three types of wolves namely red wolf, gray wolf and Ethiopian wolf. Let’s study each of these three types of wolves in detail. 