Save. Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Impatiens, visually popular garden flowers, sometimes become food for rabbits, which can ruin a season's worth of hard work in just a few minutes. Impatiens are known as rabbit-resistant plants, but rabbits nevertheless sometimes eat the delicate flowers' petals and leaves. Providing protection from rabbits for your impatiens can be challenging, but the sight of beautiful, healthy and whole impatiens in your flower garden is worth the effort. Plant flowers known to repel rabbits around your impatiens. A variety of annuals, perennials, shrubs and ground covers are known to sometimes keep rabbits away. Forget-me-nots, asters, vinca and rosemary, among others, are often effective in preventing rabbits from getting near and destroying impatiens.
Nothing is more discouraging then to see the damage deer and rabbits can do to plants in your yard. Here is a list of plants that tend to be deer and rabbit resistant; always bear in mind that if these animals are hungry they will eat anything! Ageratum. 
Rabbits don't generally like impatiens. Impatiens (Impatiens walleriana) produce colorful blooms in orange, pink, purple, blue, red and white. These hardy, shade-loving plants require little maintenance and bloom from June to the fall frost. Native to Africa, impatiens grow year-round in U.S. Department of Agriculture hardiness zones 10 through 11. In other zones, treat them as annuals or bring them indoors for winter
They grow from 1 to 3 feet tall and resist deer as well as rabbits. Zinnia (Zinnia) is a sun-loving bushy annual that reaches about 30 inches tall. It produces purple, pink or yellow blooms on long stems in early summer. This fast grower is deer and rabbit resistant. Spider flower (Cleome hassleriana), a tropical rabbit-resistant annual, tolerates drought and dry soil. It reaches heights of about 3 to 6 feet, producing white, purple or pink spider-like blooms with protruding stamens.
Gerbera daisies are currently popular as a wedding flower. New Guinea impatiens: I want to plant a bleeding heart, I love the romantic flowers. Before planting anything up here we have to make sure it is deer and rabbit resistant, and do well with our cooler spring weather at this altitude.
Rabbit Resistance. Universities and botanical gardens tout impatiens plants as being rabbit-resistant. But rabbits have been known to take a nibble. This may be more of an issue with newly planted impatiens than with established plants because rabbits have a tendency to try new things. These hardy, shade-loving plants require little maintenance and bloom from June to the fall frost. Native to Africa, impatiens grow year-round in U.S. Department of Agriculture hardiness zones 10 through 11.
Five usually rabbit-resistant plants for:Shade HelleboresFull sun SunflowersContainers Impatiens (busy Lizzie) Small tree Laurus nobilis (bay tree) Shrub Buddleja davidii (butterfly bush). Rabbits graze a wide range of plants and can cause sufficient damage to kill young trees, shrubs and herbaceous plants. This page provides some choices of plants that are relatively resistant to rabbits. There is no guarantee that any of the plants listed as resistant will remain free from damage in all conditions.
No annual is completely rabbit-proof because rabbits will feed on plants they once ignored if their food source becomes scarce. However, several species of annual plants are typically resistant to rabbits, which will pass up the flowers for a more tasty choice. Spider flower (Cleome hassleriana), a tropical rabbit-resistant annual, tolerates drought and dry soil. It reaches heights of about 3 to 6 feet, producing white, purple or pink spider-like blooms with protruding stamens.
To start, it's important to know that there are few truly rabbit-resistant plants. Like people, different rabbits have different favorite foods. One family of rabbits in your area may mow down a certain plant in your yard but a different group will avoid the same plant in your neighbor's yard down the street. One of the most common plants in the shade garden, rabbit-resistant astilbe sends up feathery plumes of pink, white, and red in early summer.