Unisa operates in accordance with the Higher Education Act 101 of 1997, as amended. It is recognised by the South African Department of Education (DoE), accredited by the South African Council on Higher Education (CHE) and all its qualifications are registered with the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA).
The MBA degree consists of twelve modules, of which eleven are compulsory and the twelfth is an elective module. In addition to the coursework modules, the MANCOSA MBA degree has a research dissertation component. The MBA programme is offered over a minimum of 2 1/2 years and a maximum period of 5 years.
While doing all of this, you can make a lasting contribution to your organisation and society. The highly recognised MANCOSA MBA degree programme is benchmarked, internationally, for consistency and tailored, regionally, for contextual relevance.
Cutting-Edge Curriculum. MANCOSA maintains that success at the workplace depends on a combination of theoretical understanding and practical application. The programme content and associated assessment interventions of the programmes develop critical thinking and problem-solving skills.
Our method provides the frameworks and concepts of MBA education in a richer and relevant context – and is responsive to the demands of contemporary business. The programme combines theory with practice to help students acquire a firm grounding in the fundamentals of business management.
MANCOSA is one of the first management schools in South Africa to focus on the development of future leaders. The MANCOSA MBA is offered throughout the world with over 2500 graduates adding value to themselves, their organisations and their countries.
Management College of Southern Africa. There has never been a more compelling time to embark on a Master of Business Administration (MBA) degree programme. The need for highly capable managers to lead organisations in an age of constant change is more urgent than ever.
Course profile. The MANCOSA MBA is an internationally recognised postgraduate academic programme and, one of the most highly recognised in Southern Africa.