Rain is a part of life in Boston. It showers intermittently throughout the year, with an average rainfall of 3.29 inches during October, according to the City of Boston’s website. Although the city has cold and snowy winters, it’s uncommon to see snow in Boston during October. Average High Temperatures. The average high temperature drops a total of around 10 degrees Fahrenheit between the beginning of October and the end, according to Weather.com. The average high is between 65 and 67 degrees during the first week of October. Temperatures drop by a few degrees each week, with averages highs around 57 or 58 degrees by the end of the month. It’s not unheard of to experience some unusually warm days in
Boston: Annual Weather Averages. July is the hottest month in Boston with an average temperature of 24°C (74°F) and the coldest is January at -2°C (29°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 10 in July. The wettest month is April with an average of 100mm of rain. 
The numbers here tell you how hot and cold the weather usually is in Boston, Massachusetts during each month of the year. The average high and low temperatures are listed below monthly and annually for Boston, in both degrees Fahrenheit and Celsius. Maximums and minimums are only part of the temperature picture. To find out how often it rises over 70, 80 or 90 °F each month in Boston, scroll down farther. There are also monthly and yearly counts of days with cold weather. All the numbers are averages, based on climate data gathered from 1981 to 2010 at Boston's Logan International Airport on the shore of Boston Harbor.
This report describes the typical weather at the Logan International Airport (Boston, Massachusetts, United States) weather station over the course of an average October. It is based on the historical records from 1974 to 2012. Earlier records are either unavailable or unreliable. From the start to the end of the month, the length of the day decreases by 1:21 hours, implying an average day-over-day decrease of 2.6 minutes. The shortest day of the month is October 31 with 10:22 hours of daylight; the longest day is October 1 with 11:43 hours of daylight.
Averages for Boston in October. in Boston is much cooler than previous months, and this is when people from more southerly areas flock to see the changing foliage that Autumn brings. T he average temperature reaches a high of 17 C (that's about 63°F) during the day but can ... Read more. 48. 48. 52. October in Boston is much cooler than previous months, and this is when people from more southerly areas flock to see the changing foliage that Autumn brings. T he average temperature reaches a high of 17 C (that's about 63 F) during the day but can dip as low as 8 C (about 46 F) at night.
Days of Hot Weather in Boston. Boston averages ten days a summer with temperatures into the 90s Fahrenheit. But temperatures of over 100 degrees are not normal for the city. Most summer days reach at least 70, while nighttime lows are in the 60s. Highs of 70 degrees can occur in Boston from March to November. To find out how often it rises over 70, 80 or 90 °F each month in Boston, scroll down farther. There are also monthly and yearly counts of days with cold weather. All the numbers are averages, based on climate data gathered from 1981 to 2010 at Boston's Logan International Airport on the shore of Boston Harbor.
Average Low Temperatures. Throughout the course of a typical October in Boston, the average low temperatures are brisk but not yet cold enough for snow. During the first week of the month, the average lows are between 49 and 52 degrees Fahrenheit, according to Weather.com. Average High Temperatures. The average high temperature drops a total of around 10 degrees Fahrenheit between the beginning of October and the end, according to Weather.com. The average high is between 65 and 67 degrees during the first week of October. Temperatures drop by a few degrees each week, with averages highs around 57 or 58 degrees by the end of the month. It’s not unheard of to experience some unusually warm days in October
Massachusetts Climate-Boston Averages. In the city of Boston, MA the warmest month on average is July with a record high of 104°F in 1911. January is the coolest month on average and a low of -30°F was recorded in 1946. Now that is COLD! The Massachusetts climate of typical summer weather averages a high of 80°F with comfortable nights of 60-65°F. Winter brings temperatures that hover right around the freezing mark of 32°F, give or take five degrees.