Atherosclerosis is a disease in which plaque builds up inside your arteries. Arteries are blood vessels that carry oxygen-rich blood to your heart and other parts of your body. Plaque is made up of fat, cholesterol, calcium, and other substances found in the blood. Over time, plaque hardens and narrows your arteries. This limits the flow of oxygen-rich blood to your organs and other parts of your body. Atherosclerosis can lead to serious problems, including heart attack, stroke, or even death
Atherosclerosis is a disease in which plaque builds up on the insides of your arteries. Arteries are blood vessels that carry oxygen-rich blood to your heart and other parts of your body. Plaque is made up of fat, cholesterol, calcium, and other substances found in the blood. Atherosclerosis is a medical condition in which a fatty substance called plaque builds up on the inside walls of blood vessels, which can slow or eventually block the flow of blood. When this occurs in the coronary arteries, it is termed coronary artery disease, or CAD.
Narrowing of the carotid arteries is most commonly related to atherosclerosis (a build-up of plaque, which is a deposit of fatty substances, cholesterol, cellular waste products, calcium, and fibrin in the inner lining of an artery). Atherosclerosis is a medical condition in which a fatty substance called plaque builds up on the inside walls of blood vessels, which can slow or eventually block the flow of blood. When this occurs in the coronary arteries, it is termed coronary artery disease, or CAD.
Atherosclerosis. Atherosclerosis is a disease in which plaque builds up inside your arteries. Arteries are blood vessels that carry oxygen-rich blood to your heart and other parts of your body. Plaque is made up of fat, cholesterol, calcium, and other substances found in the blood. Over time, plaque hardens and narrows your arteries. This limits the flow of oxygen-rich blood to your organs and other parts of your body. Atherosclerosis can lead to serious problems, including heart attack, stroke, or even death
About Atherosclerosis. Atherosclerosis (ath-er-o-skler-O-sis) is a disease in which plaque (plak) builds up inside your arteries. Arteries are blood vessels that carry oxygen-rich blood to your heart and other parts of your body. Plaque is made up of fat, cholesterol, calcium, and other substances found in the blood. Over time, plaque hardens and narrows your arteries. This limits the flow of oxygen-rich blood to your organs and other parts of your body. Atherosclerosis can lead to serious problems, including heart attack, stroke, or even death
Atherosclerosis, sometimes called hardening of the arteries, occurs when fat (cholesterol) and calcium build up inside the lining of the artery wall, forming a substance called plaque. Over time, the fat and calcium buildup narrows the artery and blocks blood flow through it. 
Yes. To understand how, here’s a little background on how heart disease happens. Most heart disease results from atherosclerosis, which is cholesterol build-up, or plaque, in the artery’s inner walls. Plaque can burst or rupture, which triggers blood clots that may block blood flowing to the heart. The result is a heart attack. That’s the bad new
Atherosclerosis is a disease process in which plaque (a mixture of cholesterol, calcium, and blood-clotting materials) builds up on the inner walls of the arteries. Atherosclerosis narrows arteries and causes them to harden, thicken, and become less elastic. Atherosclerosis is a medical condition in which a fatty substance called plaque builds up on the inside walls of blood vessels, which can slow or eventually block the flow of blood. When this occurs in the coronary arteries, it is termed coronary artery disease, or CAD.
Atherosclerosis, or hardening of the arteries, is a condition in which plaque builds up inside the arteries. Plaque is made of cholesterol, fatty substances, cellular waste products, calcium and fibrin (a clotting material in the blood). Atherosclerosis is a type of arteriosclerosis. 
Causes of heart disease. Coronary heart disease (CHD) is usually caused by a build-up of fatty deposits on the walls of the arteries around the heart (coronary arteries). The fatty deposits, called atheroma, are made up of cholesterol and other waste substances. The build-up of atheroma on the walls of the coronary arteries makes the arteries narrower, restricting the flow of blood to the heart muscle. This process is called atherosclerosis