Types of Neurons (Nerve Cells). The human body is made up of trillions of cells. Cells of the nervous system, called nerve cells or neurons, are specialized to carry messages through an electrochemical process. The human brain has approximately 100 billion neurons. To learn how neurons carry messages, read about the action potential. Neurons come in many different shapes and sizes
Like most other cells in an organism, a nerve cell generally has both a nucleus and a cell body. Around the cell body, there are extensions called dendrites, which are specialized in receiving different kinds of stimuli depending on the location and purpose of the cell. The three basic types of nerve cells are motor neurons, sensory neurons and interneurons. A motor neuron is a cell that transmits a signal to a muscle or gland. Sensory neurons receive information from sensory organs and transmit that information back to the central nervous system
Neurons are nerve cells, or cells found in the nervous system. These are specialized cells designed to stimulate other cells in the body in order to communicate. Neurons are excitable, which means they function by using electrical stimulation. Nerve cells are the primary cells in the nervous system. They are responsible for relaying electrical messages to cells and tissues in other organ systems. This article discusses the functions and structures of nerve cells in the human body
Nerve cells—also known as neurons—are the primary building blocks of the nervous system in humans and animals. On a fundamental level, a nerve cell functions by transmitting and receiving electrochemical messages. These messages can serve several purposes, including the transmission of sensory information to the central nervous system and the regulation and control of organs in the body. The three basic types of nerve cells are motor neurons, sensory neurons and interneurons. A motor neuron is a cell that transmits a signal to a muscle or gland. Sensory neurons receive information from sensory organs and transmit that information back to the central nervous system
Any of the cells of the nervous system. Nerve cells typically consist of a cell body, which contains a nucleus and receives incoming nerve impulses, and an axon, which carries impulses away from the cell body. Also called neuron. See more at cell. 
A neuron (/ˈnjʊərɒn/ NYEWR-on or /ˈnʊərɒn/ NEWR-on; also known as a neurone or nerve cell) is an electrically excitable cell that processes and transmits information through electrical and chemical signals. A typical neuron consists of a cell body (soma), dendrites, and an axon. The term neurite is used to describe either a dendrite or an axon, particularly in its undifferentiated stage
Millions of messengers. Your nervous system contains millions of nerve cells, called neurons. Neurons are highly specialised to transmit messages from one part of your body to another. All neurons have a cell body and one or more fibres. These fibres vary in length from microscopic to over 1 metre. 