Cinder cone volcanoes (also called scoria cones) are the most common type of volcano and are the symmetrical cone shaped volcanoes we typically think of. They may occur as single volcanoes or as secondary volcanoes on the sides of stratovolcanoes or shield volcanoes. 
There are many types of volcanoes, but these are the main ones: Composite/Strato-These are formed by alternating layers of lava and rock fragments. They are the large, colo … ssal volcanoes that usually pop into your mind first when thinking of volcanoes. Mt. Hood and Mt. Rainier are examples of this. Three different types of volcanoes are 1) Sheild volcanoes; they are large mountains with gentle slops. 2) Cinder cones volcanoes; they are small volcanoes made of hardend lav … a chunks called cinders.
Let's review. Volcanoes are vents in the earth's crust through which lava, rock fragments, hot vapor and gases are ejected. There are different types of volcanoes based on their size, shape, composition and eruptive style. Composite cone volcanoes are cone-shaped volcanoes composed of layers of lava, ash and rock debris. Cinder cone volcanoes are steep, cone-shaped volcanoes built from lava fragments called 'cinders.' These volcanic cinders, also known as ' scoria ,' are glassy volcanic fragments that explode from the volcano and cool quickly, building up the sides of the cinder cone volcano fairly quickly.
Volcanoes are grouped into four types: cinder cones, composite volcanoes, shield volcanoes and lava volcanoes. They are: Cinder Cones: They are circular or oval cones made up … of small fragments of lava from a single vent. They have been blown into the air, cooled, and fallen around the vent. Three different types of volcanoes are 1) Sheild volcanoes; they are large mountains with gentle slops. 2) Cinder cones volcanoes; they are small volcanoes made of hardend lav … a chunks called cinders.
This is the famous 3 types of volcanoes (shield volcanoes, strato volcanoes, and cinder cones), and it is found in many textbooks from elementary school to college. 
Three different types of volcanoes are 1) Sheild volcanoes; they are large mountains with gentle slops. 2) Cinder cones volcanoes; they are small volcanoes made of hardend lav … a chunks called cinders. There are many types of volcanoes, but these are the main ones: Composite/Strato-These are formed by alternating layers of lava and rock fragments. They are the large, colo … ssal volcanoes that usually pop into your mind first when thinking of volcanoes. Mt. Hood and Mt. Rainier are examples of this.
There are three main types of volcano-composite or strato, shield and dome. Composite Volcanoes. Composite volcanoes, sometimes known as strato volcanoes, are steep sided cones formed from layers of ash and [lava] flows. The eruptions from these volcanoes may be a pyroclastic flow rather than a flow of lava. A pyroclastic flow is a superheated mixture of hot steam, ash, rock and dust
Volcanoes are grouped into four types: cinder cones, composite volcanoes, shield volcanoes and lava volcanoes. They are: Cinder Cones: They are circular or oval cones made up of small fragments of lava from a single vent. They have been blown into the air, cooled, and fallen around the vent. There are many types of volcanoes, but these are the main ones: Composite/Strato-These are formed by alternating layers of lava and rock fragments. They are the large, colo … ssal volcanoes that usually pop into your mind first when thinking of volcanoes. Mt. Hood and Mt. Rainier are examples of this.
There are 4 major types of volcanoes: Cinder Cone Volcanoes. These are the simplest type of volcano. They occur when particles and blobs of lava are ejected from a volcanic vent. The lava is blown violently into the air, and the pieces rain down around the vent. Over time, this builds up a circular or oval-shaped cone, with a bowl-shaped crater at the top. 