Marathon and Distance Rowing. Marathons and Ultra Rowing are not for everyone, but many of our customers enjoy the challenge of going the distance as a personal goal or as a way to raise funds for a variety of causes. You can find full regulations and records for all these events in the Records section of our website
Hey, I have a rowing machine (tunturi R710, not the concept 2) and it displays the following information on the display: Reps Time Strokes/min Calories Pulse (for if you have one of those heart rate monitor things). As for what rate is reasonable that depends on how far your rowing and what level your at, at the gym I always see people rowing at rate 30-35, but not actually getting anywhere fast, they simply rush back up the slide to get the rate up and end up burning out or pulling abysmal splits.
Using a rowing machine is an endurance exercise that increases heart function and uses carbohydrates to provide the energy required to exercise. Keeping the rowing machine tension at a low level allows you to maintain a high rate of speed with little resistance in order to reach and maintain an aerobic state. A vigorous workout on a rowing machine can burn about 377 calories in 30 minutes for an individual who weighs 185 pounds, notes Harvard Health Publications.
A rowing machine is one of the few machines on the market that truly works out your entire body. The images below highlight the phases of a rowing motion and the muscles engaged during a single rowing stroke: The “Catch”. Muscles worked: Erector Spinae, Gastrochnemius and Soleus, and Hamstrings. One of the rowing machine’s claims to fame is it’s fantastic for working out your whole body. Your lower and upper body are required to complete a rowing stroke which is a good and bad thing depending on how you look at it.
Marathon and Distance Rowing. Marathons and Ultra Rowing are not for everyone, but many of our customers enjoy the challenge of going the distance as a personal goal or as a way to raise funds for a variety of causes. You can find full regulations and records for all these events in the Records section of our website. 
What are some standard/average rowing distances for 20:00 on a stationary rowing machine. I'm not talking about professionals.. just regular rowing in a fitness class. Thanks!! Rowers rarely exceed 34 strokes per minute (except in races and sprints), and do a lot of their training at about 18-28 strokes / minute. - The fan resistance settings change the intensity and distance-Each machine differs slightly.
Rowing on the water isn't a practical workout for many city dwellers, but using a rowing machine as an alternative is ideal. This machine not only strengthens a number of your major muscle groups, but also elevates your heart rate and strengthens your cardiovascular system. 
If you'd rather perform a rowing workout at home than in the gym, you can buy a rowing machine for convenience -- and then fold the machine and store it out of sight. If you're short on time, place your rowing machine in front of the TV to exercise as you relax in the evening. A vigorous workout on a rowing machine can burn about 377 calories in 30 minutes for an individual who weighs 185 pounds, notes Harvard Health Publications.