From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Porosity or void fraction is a measure of the void (i.e., empty) spaces in a material, and is a fraction of the volume of voids over the total volume, between 0 and 1, or as a percentage between 0 and 100%. There are many ways to test porosity in a substance or part, such as industrial CT scanning. Porosity is the ratio of pore volume to its total volume. Porosity is controlled by: rock type, pore distribution, cementation, diagenetic history and composition.
Permeable paving is a range of sustainable materials and techniques for permeable pavements with a base and subbase that allow the movement of stormwater through the surface. In addition to reducing runoff, this effectively traps suspended solids and filters pollutants from the water. 
For most, porosity is genetic, but it can also be affected by external factors such as exposure, heat treatments and chemical processing. Knowing your hair's porosity can help you choose the right products to keep your hair well-moisturized, supple, strong and shiny. There are two methods you can use to find out how porous your hair is. The Float Test: Take a couple of strands of hair from your comb or brush and drop them into a bowl of water. Let them sit for 2-4 minutes.
Porosity refers to how well your hair is able to absorb and hold moisture. It is affected by the flexible outer hair layer called the cuticle, which determines how easily moisture and oils pass in and out of your hair. There are two methods you can use to find out how porous your hair is. The Float Test: Take a couple of strands of hair from your comb or brush and drop them into a bowl of water. Let them sit for 2-4 minutes.
In general, porosity is the measure of empty spaces in a material. Any medium that has pores, voids or openings, has a porosity. Since the cuticle layer of the hair strand can open and close to allow the passage of water and other substances into the inner workings of the hair strand, human hair is a porous medium. Then you most likely have low porosity hair. Hair that is really shiny and not exposed to: frequent brushing, heat styling tools, bleach or hair dye, or the harmful UV rays of the sun is also most likely of low porosity.
Used in geology, hydrogeology, soil science, and building science, the porosity of a porous medium (such as rock or sediment) describes the fraction of void space in the material, where the void may contain, for example, air or water. It is defined by the ratio : Porosity is the ratio of pore volume to its total volume. Porosity is controlled by: rock type, pore distribution, cementation, diagenetic history and composition.
For instance, rainfall that seeps into the ground (infiltration). ) into the porous rock of the aquifer. The rate of recharge is not the same for all aquifers, though, and that must be considered when pumping water from a well. Pumping too much water too fast draws down the water in the aquifer and eventually causes a well to yield less and less water and even run dry. Groundwater in aquifers between layers of poorly permeable rock, such as clay or shale, may be confined under pressure. If such a confined aquifer is tapped by a well, water will rise above the top of the aquifer and may even flow from the well onto the land surface.
High porosity hair has gaps and holes in the cuticle, which let too much moisture into your hair and leave it prone to frizz and tangling in humid weather. Even simple acts such as bathing, swimming and shampooing can create more damage and breakage due to the sheer amount of moisture highly porous hair can absorb. There are two methods you can use to find out how porous your hair is. The Float Test: Take a couple of strands of hair from your comb or brush and drop them into a bowl of water. Let them sit for 2-4 minutes.
Hair strands that have chips, cracks and outright holes in its cuticle layer are considered high porosity or highly porous. Now remember your hair’s porosity level is genetic, but the way you manipulate your hair that can also affect it’s porosity level. Then you most likely have low porosity hair. Hair that is really shiny and not exposed to: frequent brushing, heat styling tools, bleach or hair dye, or the harmful UV rays of the sun is also most likely of low porosity.