Rear wheel drive cars are the only choice for drifting particularly higher-powered models but one of the key requirements is a limited slip diff. We've seen really impressive drifts from low powered cars. A quick burst of acceleration at the right moment is just enough to break the adhesion of the back of the car.
There’s no denying it; drifting is fun. Really fun. I don’t care what type of car buff you are, breaking those rear tires loose and sliding through a turn sideways is exhilarating. You can drift most rear-wheel drive cars with enough power, but there are simply some cars that are much better than others.
You will not be able to hold a long, continuous sideways drift around a sweeping corner with a front-wheel-drive car like you can with a rear-wheel-drive vehicle, and you cannot use engine power on a high-horsepower car to start a powerslide since the power acts on the front wheels.
Find a car with both rear-wheel-drive and a manual transmission. Ideally it should be a sports car with as close to a 50/50 ratio as possible, and enough power to keep the tires spinning is ideal.
Front-Wheel-Drive Oversteer. It is generally perceived that front-wheel-drive cars-that is, cars in which the front wheels do both, put power to the road and steer-are understeering wrecks that fly off the road if you go into a corner too quickly.
ModernRacer.com DRIVING TIPS. It is generally perceived that front-wheel-drive cars-that is, cars in which the front wheels do both, put power to the road and steer-are understeering wrecks that fly off the road if you go into a corner too quickly.
Seven Methods: Things to do Before You Begin Drifting Drifting with Rear Wheel Drive and Manual Transmission Hand brake technique Clutch Kick technique Drifting with Rear Wheel Drive Auto Preparing to Drift with a Front Wheel Drive Car Drifting with a Front Wheel Drive Car. Be fast and furious. Ad.
How to Drift a Car. Seven Methods: Things to do Before You Begin Drifting Drifting with Rear Wheel Drive and Manual Transmission Hand brake technique Clutch Kick technique Drifting with Rear Wheel Drive Auto Preparing to Drift with a Front Wheel Drive Car Drifting with a Front Wheel Drive Car. Be fast and furious. Ad.