Trisodium phosphate (TSP) is the inorganic compound with the chemical formula Na 3 PO 4. It is a white, granular or crystalline solid, highly soluble in water producing an alkaline solution. TSPs are used as cleaning agent, lubricant, food additive, stain remover and degreaser. The item of commerce is often partially hydrated and may range from anhydrous Na 3 PO 4, to the dodecahydrate, Na 3 PO4 ·12 H 2 O. Most often found in white powder form, it can also be called trisodium orthophosphate or simply sodium phosphate. Contents.
Sodium phosphate; Trisodium orthophosphate; Phosphoric acid, trisodium salt; Trinatriumphosphat (German); Tertiary sodium phosphate; Sodium tertiary phosphate; SMILES. P(=O)([O-])([O-])[O-].[Na+].[Na+].[Na+]. CLASSIFICATION. Cleaning agent, Food additive, Degreaser, Flux, Photographic chemical, Phosphate. 1.62) The dodecahydrate loses water at about 76°C and the decahydrate melts at 100°C. Trisodium phosphate may be prepared by boiling sodium carbonate with the stoichiometric amount of phosphoric acid and subsequently adding sodium hydroxide to the disodium salt thus formed.
1 Trisodium phosphate (TSP), available at most hardware stores in white powder form, is a cleaning agent, stain remover and degreaser, commonly used to prepare surfaces for painting. 2  TSP can also be called trisodium orthophosphate and has the chemical formula Na3PO4; however, it is generally found in hydrated forms. TSP is a highly water-soluble ionic salt. Solutions of it dissolved in water have an alkaline pH. Other sodium phosphates, sometimes know by E number E339, are food additives and used as an acidity regulator, emulsifier, thickening agent, nutrition enlargement agent and sequestrant. TSP is used to clean swimming pool polyester filter elements.Trisodium phosphate is also found in some breakfast cereals. Sodium phosphate enemas are sold over-the-counter in the United States, working as a laxative to treat constipation.
The trisodium phosphate-water binary system. In the phase diagram for the Na 3 PO 4, trisodium phosphate-water system shown to the right, one eutectic point and four peritectic points are found. The eutectic point is the cryohydratic point, where ice and Na 3 PO 4 ·12H 2 O both are in equilibrium with the same liquid. The phase diagram consists of six different branches including ice, four hydrated forms and anhydrous trisodium phosphate. Four peritectic points mark the transitions. 1  Na 3 PO 4 ·12H 2 O ↔ Na 3 PO 4 ·8H 2 O at around 54°C. 2  Na 3 PO 4 ·8H 2 O ↔ Na 3 PO 4 ·6H 2 O at around 100°C.
Trisodium phosphate is produced by neutralization of phosphoric acid using sodium hydroxides, often with sodium carbonate. The item of commerce is often partially hydrated and may range from anhydrous Na 3 PO 4, to the dodecahydrate, Na 3 PO4 ·12 H 2 O. Most often found in white powder form, it can also be called trisodium orthophosphate or simply sodium phosphate. Contents.
TSP can be used in ceramic production to lower the flow point of glazes. Trisodium phosphate is employed as a nutritional supplement as well as to enhance the exercise performance. Phosphorous is used in energy-producing Krebs cycle and it give energy to the performer. Loading TSP may increase an athlete’s energy as well as reducing the accumulation of lactic acid in the muscles. Poisoning can occur if your accidentally swallow, breathe in or touch your skin with TSP-based products. Poisoning symptoms include difficulty breathing; severe pain in the throat, eyes, nose, ears, lips or tongue; fainting; skin irritation or burns; vomiting; diarrhea; and severe abdominal pain.
PHOSPHATE SALTS Overview Information. Phosphate salts refers to many different combinations of the chemical phosphate with salts and minerals. Foods high in phosphate include dairy products, whole grain cereals, nuts, and certain meats. High levels of phosphate in the blood: People with Addison's disease, severe heart and lung disease, kidney disease, thyroid problems, or liver disease are more likely than other people to develop too much phosphate in their blood when they take phosphate salts.
Trisodium Phosphate (TSP). From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Trisodium phosphate (TSP), is a cleaning agent, stain remover and degreaser, commonly used to prepare surfaces for painting. It can also be called trisodium orthophosphate and has the chemical formula Na3PO4. It is a highly water-soluble ionic salt. Solutions of it dissolved in water have an alkaline pH. It can also be found as a food additive; it is used as an acidity regulator (buffering agent), emulsifier, thickening agent, nutrition enlargement agent and sequestrant (metal-chelating agent).