Most stains can be treated with a homemade stain remover-the very same rubbing alcohol that you probably keep around the house for cuts and scrapes. To remove stains with alcohol, follow these steps. Instructions. Place a paper towel, folded twice, inside the article of clothing and behind the stain. Put some rubbing alcohol on a sponge and blot the stain. Turn the fabric over so that the stain is face down, and put it on top of a fresh twice-folded paper towel. Make sure you can get to the stain and use the alcohol-soaked sponge to blot more. After you are done, replace the paper towel with a fresh one. Add liquid laundry detergent to a fresh area of the sponge and gently rub the stain. You will probably need to replace the paper towel another time while doing thi
1 Be sure to remove the sugar residue or it will cause a permanent stain. 2  Blot up the excess wine. 3  Sponge the stain with water and apply a wet spotter and a few drops of white vinegar. If any stain does remain: 1  Sponge with rubbing alcohol and cover with an absorbent pad dampened with alcohol. 2  Let it remain as long as any stain is being lifted. 3  Change the pad as it picks up the stain and keep both the stain and pad moist
2) Stainless Steel Cleaner. You can add some rubbing alcohol to a soft, non-scratching cloth and clean your stainless steel appliances with it. It’s a great way to remove fingerprints, and it dries streak-free. It’s actually insanely impressive how well it works and how effortless it is. 1) Make your own disinfectant. You know how important disinfecting is, especially with cold season just around the corner! Mix up one part rubbing alcohol to one part water, add in a spray bottle and do your disinfecting. Then, use this to clean your points of contact and other germy areas. You can even use it directly on a cotton pad to clean your earrings, thermometers and any other personal items that require disinfecting
Burlap, Silk and Wool. Follow these steps to remove rose and red wine stains from Burlap, Silk and Wool: 1  Be sure to remove the sugar residue or it will cause a permanent stain. 2  Blot up the excess wine. 3  Sponge the stain with water and apply a wet spotter and a few drops of white vinegar. If any stain does remain: 1  Sponge with rubbing alcohol and cover with an absorbent pad dampened with alcohol. 2  Let it remain as long as any stain is being lifted. 3  Change the pad as it picks up the stain and keep both the stain and pad moist
Rubbing alcohol will help remove dog ticks. Ticks don't like rubbing alcohol. Before you pull a tick off your dog put some rubbing alcohol on a cotton ball and rub it on the tick. This will make the tick loosen its grip and make it easier for you to remove it. Once the tick is removed dab again with alcohol to disinfect the wound. 1  This works on people too. Soak the spot in rubbing alcohol for a few minutes before you put it in the washer. You can also use rubbing alcohol to remove ink stains around the house. ** See more of my articles on uses for ordinary things in the resource section below.
Rubbing alcohol will remove hair spray from mirrors. When you are spraying hair spray on your hair, some of it usually winds up on the mirror. Wipe the mirror with rubbing alcohol to remove that sticky residue and leave your mirror with a streak free shine. Soak the spot in rubbing alcohol for a few minutes before you put it in the washer. You can also use rubbing alcohol to remove ink stains around the house. ** See more of my articles on uses for ordinary things in the resource section below.
• Spray with alcohol-based hairspray, let sit for a few minutes, and then blot away. • You can also try rubbing alcohol. Place the stain face down on a paper towel; dip a cloth in rubbing alcohol and dab gently to transfer the marker to the paper towel. Replace with a new paper towel until stain is removed. 