The pharynx (plural: pharynges) is an organ found in vertebrates and invertebrates, though the structure is not universally the same across the species. In humans the pharynx is part of the digestive system and also of the conducting zone of the respiratory system. The conducting zone also includes the nose, larynx, trachea, bronchi, and bronchioles, and their function is to filter, warm, and moisten air and conduct it into the lungs. It makes up the part of the throat situated immediately posterior to the nasal cavity, posterior to the mouth and superior to the esophagus and larynx. The human pharynx is conventionally divided into three sections: the nasopharynx, the oropharynx and the laryngopharynx.
Waldeyer's Ring of Lymphoid Tissue. The lymphoid tissue that surrounds the opening into the respiratory and digestive systems forms a ring. The lateral part of the ring is formed by the palatine tonsils and tubal tonsils (lymphoid tissue around the opening of the auditory tube in the lateral wall of the nasopharynx). The tonsils constitute a lymphoid tissue that lies beneath, and in contact with, the epithelium of the initial portion of the digestive tract. Depending on their location, tonsils in the mouth and pharynx are called palatine, pharyngeal, or lingual.
The tonsils (palatine tonsils) are a pair of soft tissue masses located at the rear of the throat (pharynx). Each tonsil is composed of tissue similar to lymph nodes, covered by pink mucosa (like on the adjacent mouth lining). Running through the mucosa of each tonsil are pits, called crypts. The tonsils are part of the lymphatic system, which helps to fight infections. However, removal of the tonsils does not seem to increase susceptibility to infection. Tonsils vary widely in size and swell in response to infection
Accessory Organs. The salivary glands, liver, gallbladder, and pancreas are not part of the digestive tract, but they have a role in digestive activities and are considered accessory organs. 
Summary Information: Tonsils. Tonsils: The tonsils are structures of the immune system located in the pharynx and throat. The tonsils protect the body from potential infection of invading pathogens into the respiratory system and the digestive system. They possibly play a role in fighting pharyngeal infections and upper respiratory infections. These symptoms are related to afflictions of the organ: Tonsils: 1  Sore throat. 2  Fever. 3  Bad breath. 4  Throat tightening. 5  Cough. 6  White bumps on tonsils. 7  Swollen tonsils. 8  Pharyngeal sore. 9  Lumps in neck. 10  Neck pain.
The main structures inside the mouth are the teeth, tongue, tonsils, salivary glands and-at the back of the throat (not shown on the left). the epiglottis. Structure in/of the mouth. Notes / Description. 1. 
Adenoids (Pharyngeal Tonsil). The adenoids, also known as the pharyngeal tonsils, are a part of the lymphatic system located in the back of the throat and up into the nasal cavity. Click to read more below. The adenoids, also known as the pharyngeal tonsils, are a part of the lymphatic system located in the back of the throat and up into the nasal cavity.