In Greek and Roman mythology, the Furies were female spirits of justice and vengeance. They were also called the Erinyes (angry ones). Known especially for pursuing people who had murdered family members, the Furies punished their victims by driving them mad. Most tales mention three Furies: Allecto (endless), Tisiphone (punishment), and Megaera (jealous rage). Usually imagined as monstrous, foul-smelling hags, the sisters had bats' wings, coal-black skin, and hair entwined with serpents. They carried torches, whips, and cups of venom with which to torment wrongdoers.
In Greek mythology the Erinyes or Eumenides (the Romans called them the Furies) were female personifications of vengeance. They were usually said to have been born from the blood of Uranus that fell upon Gaia when Cronus castrated him; i.e., they were chthonic (earth) deities. 
The Furies (Erinyes). The Furies are the three chthonic female deities of vengeance in Greek mythology. They are also called Erinyes (Erinys) which means “the avengers” in Greek language. The counterpart of the Furies is “Dirae” in Roman mythology. There are several myths regarding the birth and parentage of the Furies. 
Furies are also known as Erinyes (the kindly ones). Their names are Alecto, Megaera, and Tisiphone. The furies are sisters. Their parents are Gaea and Uranus. They were fertilized by the blood from the castration of Uranus. The three each have fiery eyes, dog heads, and serpents for hair. They punish injustice and are known for being impersonal and impartial.
Furies. The Furies were the three goddesses of vengeance: Tisiphone (avenger of murder), Megaera (the jealous) and Alecto (constant anger). They were also called the Daughters of the Night, but were actally the daughters of Uranus and Gaea. Another name for them is the Erinyes. 
In, Greek mythology the Erinyes (/ɪˈrɪniˌiːz/ ; sing. Erinys /ɪˈrɪnɪs/ ; Greek: ἐρῑνύες [ῠ] , pl. of ἐρῑνύς [ῡ] , Erinys), also known as Furies, were female chthonic deities of vengeance; they were sometimes referred to as infernal goddesses (χθόνιαι θεαί). 
They were also known as the Three Erinyes or Eumenides. The FuriesThey were also known as the Three Erinyes or Eumenides. According to Ancient Greek mythology they were the daughters of Gaia, the earth goddess and described as hideous snake-haired monsters who pursued unpunished criminals. This article provides facts and information about the Furies. The Furies. Ancient Greek Goddesses for Kids-The Furies aka the ErinyesAncient Greek Goddesses and Nymphs-The Furies aka the Erinyes, the goddesses of Vengeance & Retribution. The FuriesDiscover fascinating information about the avenging deities, referred to as Furies, were the goddesses of Vengeance and Retribution.
Megaera (/məˈdʒɪərə/ ; Ancient Greek: μέγαιρα, English translation : the jealous one) is one of the Erinyes, Eumenides or Furies in Greek mythology. Lampriere'lamprière S Classical dictionary States according to the most received, opinions they were three in, Number, Tisiphone [ megara ] sic And  alecto And ... megaera 
The Furies of Greek mythology are monstrous women who lived in the underworld and avenged murders, particularly matricides. In Greek they are called Erinyes, a name thought to have come from the Arcadian word meaning, “to be angry,” hence the English name “Furies.”. The creatures first appear in Homer’s Iliad as punishers of oath-breakers and as embodied curses of parents wronged by their children.