1 An aneurysm can occur in any part of the body, though they often occur on the wall of the aorta. 2  The two main types of aneurysms are aortic aneurysms and cerebral aneurysms. 3  Aneurysms are most common in men and people over 65 years of age. An aneurysm can occur in any part of the body. They tend to occur most commonly on the wall of the aorta-the large trunk artery that carries blood from the left ventricle of the heart to branch arteries. The aorta goes down through the chest and into the abdomen, where it divides into the iliac arteries (two branches)
Overview. An aneurysm is a weak spot in the wall of a blood vessel that may cause an abnormal bulge. The bulge can rupture and cause internal bleeding. Although it can occur in any blood vessel, aneurysms are most common in the brain, the aorta, the legs, and spleen. More than 13,000 deaths occur each year in the United States from ruptured aneurysms.
Aneurysms can occur in any blood vessel, with examples including aneurysms of the circle of Willis in the brain, aortic aneurysms affecting the thoracic aorta, and abdominal aortic aneurysms. Aneurysms can also occur within the heart itself. As an aneurysm increases in size, the risk of rupture increases. A ruptured aneurysm can lead to bleeding and subsequent hypovolemic shock, leading to death. Aneurysms are a result of a weakened blood vessel wall, and can be a result of a hereditary condition or an acquired disease.
1 An aneurysm occurs when part of a blood vessel or cardiac chamber swells. 2  An aneurysm can occur in any part of the body, though they often occur on the wall of the aorta. 3  The two main types of aneurysms are aortic aneurysms and cerebral aneurysms. 4  Aneurysms are most common in men and people over 65 years of age. An aneurysm can occur in any part of the body. They tend to occur most commonly on the wall of the aorta-the large trunk artery that carries blood from the left ventricle of the heart to branch arteries. The aorta goes down through the chest and into the abdomen, where it divides into the iliac arteries (two branches)
Most aneurysms occur in the aorta, the main artery that carries oxygen-rich blood from the heart to the body. The aorta goes through the chest and abdomen. An aneurysm that occurs in the chest portion of the aorta is called a thoracic (tho-RAS-ik) aortic aneurysm. An aneurysm that occurs in the abdominal portion of the aorta is called an abdominal aortic aneurysm. Aneurysms also can occur in other arteries, but these types of aneurysm are less common. This article focuses on aortic aneurysms. 
Aneurysms occur most often in the aorta, the large artery that runs from the heart down through the abdomen. More than 15,000 people a year die when an aneurysm in this area breaks. Aneurysms can occur in other parts of the chest and body. When they occur in the brain, they may lead to stroke * . 
The aorta is the most common place for aneurysms to occur. Because your aorta carries so much of the body's blood, a ruptured aortic aneurysm frequently proves fatal. Aneurysms can occur anywhere along the aorta, but 75-90% of them take place in the abdominal section. 
Aneurysms can form in any blood vessel, but they occur most commonly in the aorta (aortic aneurysm). The aorta is the largest artery in the body. It carries blood from the heart to the rest of the body. Aortic aneurysms can occur in two main places: 
Aneurysms can occur in any artery, but they most commonly occur in the aorta. Most aortic aneurysms occur in the section of the aorta that passes through the tummy (abdomen). These are known as abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs). Sometimes they occur in the section going through the chest. 