It is not surrounded by a membrane but sits in the nucleus. The nucleolus makes ribosomal subunits from proteins and ribosomal RNA, also known as rRNA. It then sends the subunits out to the rest of the cell where they combine into complete ribosomes. Ribosomes make proteins; therefore, the nucleolus plays a vital role in making proteins in the cell. Function of the Nucleolus. Ribosomes are made of two subunits, a large and a small. Each subunit is manufactured separately in the nucleolus. The proteins needed to make them enter the nucleus through pores in the nuclear membrane. The rRNA is made in the nucleolus itself.
The Nucleolus. The nucleolus is a prominent sub-nuclear structure that is not bound by a membrane and resides within the nuclear matrix. Though known to exist since the eighteenth century, the primary function of the nucleolus was not discovered until the 1960s. The Nucleolus The nucleolus is a prominent sub-nuclear structure that is not bound by a membrane and resides within the nuclear matrix.
Confidence votes 248. It contains the genes for the RNA and protein in ribosomes. A nucleolus in a cell controls the activities of the cell and it produces ribosomes. 
The talk page may contain suggestions. (October 2012). The nucleolus is contained within the cell nucleus. The nucleolus (/nuːˈkliːɵləs/ ; plural nucleoli /nuːˈkliːɵlaɪ/) is the largest structure in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells, where it primarily serves as the site of ribosome synthesis and assembly. 
1 Nucleolus-The nucleolus is a large structure in the nucleus that mainly makes ribosomes and RNA. 2  Nucleoplasm-The nucleoplasm is the liquid that fills the inside of the nucleus. 3  Chromatin-Chromatin are composed of proteins and DNA. 1 Nucleoplasm-The nucleoplasm is the liquid that fills the inside of the nucleus. 2  Chromatin-Chromatin are composed of proteins and DNA. 3  They organize into chromosomes prior to the cell dividing. 4  Pore-The pores are small channels through the nuclear envelope.
The nucleolus is the nuclear subdomain that assembles ribosomal subunits in eukaryotic cells. The nucleolar organiser regions of chromosomes, which contain the genes for pre‐ribosomal ribonucleic acid (rRNA), serve as the foundation for nucleolar structure. Key Concepts. 1  The nucleolus, whose primary function is to assemble ribosomes, is the largest structure in the cell nucleus. 2  The nucleolus organiser regions of chromosomes, which harbour the genes for pre‐rRNA, are the foundation for the nucleolus.
The nucleolus directs the assembly of proteins within the cell nucleus. The nucleolus is the part of the nucleus containing most of the genes that code for the synthesis of ribosomal RNA (rRNA: the RNA molecules found in ribosomes). So rRNA is synthesized within the nucleolus. While still within the nucleolus, these rRNA molecules are assembled, together with many protein molecules. into two subunits of future ribosomes. The subunits leave the nucleus through pores in the nuclear membrane, and enter the cytoplasm.
1 The nucleolus, whose primary function is to assemble ribosomes, is the largest structure in the cell nucleus. 2  The nucleolus organiser regions of chromosomes, which harbour the genes for pre‐rRNA, are the foundation for the nucleolus. Key Concepts. 1 