Knowing what kind of deck you want will help determine your budget and total cost. The cost of your deck is broken down into many small parts, and if you can plan ahead, your budget will be better cushioned for any unexpected costs. Here are some of the cost factors involved in the construction of a deck. The cost to construct a deck varies depending on the material used. Some of those prices include: These prices will vary by square footage and whether you have other features added to your deck that involve more materials. Learn more about decking materials and which one is right for you in the section below.
1 Wood is the most traditional, common and easily available material for decks; it is typically easier to work with than composite materials. 2  Composite deck installation can cost $25-$70 or more a square foot (8,000 -$22,400 for 16'x20). The payment and insurance on said truck is maybe $850 a month. If it takes a week or two to build a deck and we assume the customer should shoulder the entire cost of the truck then it should add maybe $30 to 500 with gas.
Decks are less expensive than most other home additions. And because decks are so popular, they also make homes more marketable and valuable. Here's a look at what they cost. For basic designs using the least expensive lumber, you can expect to pay from about $6 to $8 per square foot of deck area. Even if you choose top-of-the-line redwood lumber or want a hot tub, material costs are still reasonable, anywhere from $20 to $35 per square foot
Deck building costs vary across the country... Many factors come into play on what the final amount that you will pay to build that dream deck of yours. We have taken a bit of survey of our visitors from across much of the United States and Canada to help you get a sense of what is going on. As a contractor in Grande Prairie, Alberta, this is what we would charge for a typical 8 x 14 deck. It's built on 12x6' concrete piles with a 3'6 square …. Building Cost to Hire a Contractor For My Deck. I just paid $24 a square foot for a 10x15 pressure treated deck.
Comprehensive Deck Cost Calculator. [Prices updated 5-22-03]. Just put in the area of your new deck in square feet and zero (0) if you want no stairs. If you want stairs, put in the height in. from the door threshold to the ground where the stairs will be located. 
1 Composite deck installation can cost $25-$70 or more a square foot (8,000 -$22,400 for 16'x20). The payment and insurance on said truck is maybe $850 a month. If it takes a week or two to build a deck and we assume the customer should shoulder the entire cost of the truck then it should add maybe $30 to 500 with gas.
Decking Prices. Once you determine what kind of decking materials you'll need to build the structure, it's time to get down to price. While the average cost to build a deck averages between $4,000 and $10,000, that doesn't account for the materials. Here is the average cost of each decking material, broken down by average price range per board: It's important to know what board sizes you'll need to purchase for your deck. The cost to construct a deck varies depending on the material used. Some of those prices include: These prices will vary by square footage and whether you have other features added to your deck that involve more materials. Learn more about decking materials and which one is right for you in the section below.
1 The total project cost for a Trex deck will be from $1,500 to $2,200 for a 250-square-foot deck. 2  Trex Select of basic quality averages approximately $7 per square foot. 3  Trex Enhance of higher quality is approximately $8 per square foot. 4  Trex Transcend, the highest grade, ranges between $9 and $9.50 per square foot. To get an idea of what this means to consumers, an estimated 140,000 plastic bags are in a 500-square foot Trex deck. 1 
1 Hiring someone to do the work for you makes your total cost in the range of $3,500. 2  You can buy the materials for a 12-foot-square redwood deck off the second floor, with a flight of steps leading to the ground, for about $6,000 and build it yourself. And because decks are so popular, they also make homes more marketable and valuable. Here's a look at what they cost. For basic designs using the least expensive lumber, you can expect to pay from about $6 to $8 per square foot of deck area.