In fact, a chameleon attacked by a predator turns reddish with brown or yellow stripes, as most of the chameleons' predators (snakes, mammals) do not distinguish well the colors. Actually, the chameleon is constantly changing its color according to its emotions, light and temperature. 1. The Chameleons' closest relatives are ...the iguanas and dragon lizards (Agamidae). In fact, there are iguanas living in Americas called false chameleons, that resemble a lot the real chameleons of the Old World, and even have the ability of changing their color.
All carnivourous animals capable of catching and killing a chameleon in the geographical area they live can be a predator for a chameleon. Most common predators would be birds … , snakes, lizards (including other chameleons). I have been studying these kind of lizards and the predators are all types of animals and people.
Live prey like insects and worms are still considered to be nutritious food sources for chameleons.   Crickets: They are abundant and are often the staple of a chameleon's … diet (thought it should not be the only prey that is fed to your chameleon). It also makes it hard for  predators to see it.   3. They can shoot out their tongue nearly a foot and catch an  insect with incredible accuracy.   4. Behavioral adaption would be the manner in which the chameleon  moves throughout vines and limbs.
Snakes, especially the Boomslang Snake and the Vine Snake, are predators to the chameleon. Some birds are also, including the shrike, coucal, and hornbill. The Cuckoo Hawk will also occasionally prey on chameleons. Most common predators would be birds … , snakes, lizards (including other chameleons). I have been studying these kind of lizards and the predators are all types of animals and people.
Reptile. Half of the world's chameleon population lives on the island of Madagascar. They are famous for their ability to change color. This serves as a form of communication, a response to temperature, light, and mood, as well as a defense against predators. 
Chameleons protect them self from their predator they change colors when they see a predator but chameleons changes colors because they are scared that other predators will ea … t the chameleon so thats chameleons changes colors so they will hide for predators. Most common predators would be birds … , snakes, lizards (including other chameleons). I have been studying these kind of lizards and the predators are all types of animals and people.
One of the amazing chameleon facts for kids is that these reptiles are capable to change their color with respect to their surroundings. This helps them in camouflaging from potential predators. These animals inhabit all throughout South Asia, Africa, Spain, Portugal, California, and Florida. 
The chameleon is a very distinctive and well-known species of lizard, due to the large eyes and curled tail of the chameleon. Chameleons are found throughout jungle and desert alike, in Africa, Asia and parts of Southern Europe and chameleons have also been introduced to parts of North America. 
There are many types of chameleons, and they all have a lot of predators, or natural enemies. Chameleons are at the bottom of the food chain, and near the outside of the food web. In order to hide from their predators, many species of chameleons are able to change their color in order to match their surroundings. When an animal is the same color as most of its srurroundings, it is said to be camouflaged. Snakes are one of the kinds of creatures that eats chameleons. Birds are another
The Eating Habits of Chameleons. The muscles on the tip of a chameleon's tongue provide suction that traps prey. Hulton Collection/Valueline/Getty Images. Chameleons spend most of their lives in bushes or trees, where they can hide from predators and wait for food. 