In the United States, the legal limit is technically 10 years, not 8 as often but erroneously supposed. A President may serve as many as (but not more than) two years of a previous President's term and subsequently be elected to two full terms of his own. These restrictions are imposed by Section 1 of the 22nd Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.
If this person serves two years or less of the last President’s term, he or she may serve for two full four-year terms. If he or she served more than two years of the last President's term, the new President can serve only one full four-year term.
Term Limit. American presidents are elected for four-year terms. While the 22nd Amendment limits presidents to two full terms in office, it also allows for them to serve two years at most of another president's term. That means the most any president can serve in the White House is 10 years.
Currently, the president can only serve two terms of four years. When Franklin D. Roosevelt was president, there was no limit on how many terms the president could serve. But in 1951, an amendment was added to the US Constitution limiting the president to only serving two terms.
Before the ratification of the 22nd Amendment, Franklin Delano Roosevelt was elected to four terms in the White House in 1932, 1936, 1940 and 1944. Roosevelt died less than a year into his fourth term, but he is the only president to have served more than two terms.
The US President can serve a maximum two full terms. One term is four years. A president who finishes another president's term which has less than two years to go, can still … serve two more full terms. Therefore, in theory, it is possible to serve for 10 years in this special case.
Four years is one term. US presidents can only serve two for four year terms, for a total of eight years. The controlling law is the 22nd Amendment to the US Constitution.
One term is four years. A president who finishes another president's term which has less than two years to go, can still … serve two more full terms. Therefore, in theory, it is possible to serve for 10 years in this special case.
He may also serve up to 2 years of the term of the preceding President, through succession, for a total of ten years in office, However, if he serves more than 2 years of a preceding President's term, he can only be elected to one more full term.