The City of Plattsburgh is the population center and county seat at the heart of the Plattsburgh Micropolitan Statistical Area (MSA) - population 82,128 as of the 2010 Census. Plattsburgh is located on the western shore of Lake Champlain in the northeastern part of the state of New York, just south of Cumberland Head. The Saranac River flows through the city into Lake Champlain.
Plattsburgh is a city in and county seat of Clinton County, New York, United States. The population was 19,989 at the 2010 census. The population of the unincorporated areas within the Town of Plattsburgh was 11,870 as of the 2010 census; making the population for the immediate Plattsburgh, New York Region 31,859. Plattsburgh is located on the western shore of Lake Champlain in the northeastern part of the state of New York, just south of Cumberland Head. The Saranac River flows through the city into Lake Champlain.
SUNY Plattsburgh Alumni & Friends. As alumni, the friendships, experiences and memories formed at SUNY Plattsburgh will be with you forever. The college is a home to which you may always return. That's why we make staying connected so easy
Chinn was arrested as he exited the Amtrak train in the City of Plattsburgh without incident. Upon being processed at the Plattsburgh Police Department Chinn was found to be in possession of 20 grams of uncut compressed heroin. On Tuesday July 28th, 2015 Members of the Adirondack Drug Task Force and Plattsburgh Police Department arrested Darrel Chinn on a Bench Warrant issued from Kings County Court Brooklyn, NY. The Bench Warrant was issued for failure to appear on a Reckless Endangerment charge from 2014.
All three were transported to the Plattsburgh Police Department for processing. Griffith was lodged at the Clinton County Jail on the indictment. Waldron and Southwell spent the night in the city police lockup, arraigned this morning in City Court then transported to Clinton County Jail. No bail set on Waldron. On Tuesday July 28th, 2015 Members of the Adirondack Drug Task Force and Plattsburgh Police Department arrested Darrel Chinn on a Bench Warrant issued from Kings County Court Brooklyn, NY. The Bench Warrant was issued for failure to appear on a Reckless Endangerment charge from 2014.
SUNY Plattsburgh. Set in a small city on the shore of Lake Champlain, between the Adirondacks and Green Mountains, Plattsburgh is rich in regional interests. The residential campus is clean, safe and easy to walk. Montreal is just an hour's drive away, as is the Olympic Village of Lake Placid and Burlington, Vermont
For assistance arranging transportation to either meeting or for additional inquiries, please contact the County Planning Office at 518-565-4713. If you are unable to reach CCPT dispatch at 518-561-1452 please use 518-565-4920. Clinton County Public Transit (CCPT) serves Clinton County and the City of Plattsburgh. We are a public transportation provider with a fleet of sixteen buses. CCPT provides approximately 200,000 rides per year linking the towns within Clinton County to the City of Plattsburgh. It is our goal to provide a safe and reliable service that is both accessible and affordable to the residents and visitors of Clinton County. 
PLATTSBURGH, N.Y. – In their first SUNYAC game of the season, the Plattsburgh State Men's soccer team (8-1-1) finished even with North Country rival, the SUNY Potsdam Bears (6-2-1) on Saturday. The double overtime contest saw a lot of action ... POTSDAM, N.Y. – The Plattsburgh State women's soccer team began State University of New York Athletic Conference (SUNYAC) play Saturday afternoon against North Country rivals Potsdam, defeating the Bears 1-0 in double overtime. ...
Homecoming. A bonfire, tug-of-war, welcome back socials, and craft beer tastings are but some of the activities awaiting the return of alumni to the SUNY Plattsburgh campus for Homecoming 2015. 