Grow rhubarb in a spot such as the back row of your garden. Since it is a perennial, it will not be a part of regular garden tilling. Make sure to allow for plenty of sun. Rhubarb enjoys a deep, fertile soil like asparagus, so many gardeners chose to plant their rhubarb and asparagus next to each other. 
Soil type. Rhubarb can be grown in acidic soils down to about pH 5.0 but grows best in slightly acidic soil-pH 6.0-6.8. Rhubarb likes a well drained, fertile soil that contains a good amount of organic matter such as well rotted manure or compost. If the soil is not well drained then waterlogging can result in the crowns rotting.
1 Rhubarb can also be planted in the fall after dormancy has set in. 2  Dig large bushel basket-size holes. 3  Space rhubarb plants about 4 feet apart and plant the roots 1 to 2 inches below the surface of the soil. Rhubarb is a perennial vegetable, though it is generally used as a fruit in desserts and jams. You only eat the stalks, which have a rich tart flavor. The leaves of this plant are poisonous, so be sure that they are not ingested. Rhubarb is easy to grow, but needs cool weather to thrive
Rhubarb plants will grow in the same spot for a long time so it’s well worth preparing the soil properly before you plant them. Dig in plenty of well rotted manure to a depth of about 60cm (24) and clear all weeds. When planting rhubarb crowns or budded ‘pieces’, set them so that the top of the crown sits 3cm (1) below soil level. If you are gardening on a heavy, wet soil then plant them slightly higher, so that the top of the crown sits at ground level. This will help to prevent crown rot.
Where to Grow Rhubarb Plants. Rhubarb crowns and budded pieces are best planted in the spring or autumn while the soil is warm and moist. Potted rhubarb plants can be planted out at any time of the year so long as the soil is not frozen, waterlogged or suffering from drought. When planting rhubarb crowns or budded ‘pieces’, set them so that the top of the crown sits 3cm (1) below soil level. If you are gardening on a heavy, wet soil then plant them slightly higher, so that the top of the crown sits at ground level. This will help to prevent crown rot.
Rhubarb tolerates most soils but grows best on fertile, well-drained soils that are high in organic matter. A clean planting site is essential for the cultivation of rhubarb since no herbicides are registered for use on rhubarb. Small areas of perennial weeds can quickly build up to serious proportions. Rhubarb is rather tolerant of soil acidity but does best in slightly to moderately acid soil. The crop can tolerate soil pH as low as 5.0; however, maximum yields are attained at a pH of 6.0 to 6.8. Liberal quantities of fertilizer are needed.
How to grow rhubarb. The best time to plant rhubarb crowns is from November to December when they are dormant, but you can wait until spring. Rhubarb grows best in a sunny spot with rich, moist soil that doesn’t waterlog. Give it at least one metre to spread, and dig in plenty of well-rotted manure or garden compost. Plant the crown with the top bud just below the surface.
1 Dig large bushel basket-size holes. 2  Space rhubarb plants about 4 feet apart and plant the roots 1 to 2 inches below the surface of the soil. 3  Be sure to mix compost, rotted manure, or anything high in organic matter in the soil. 4  Rhubarb plants are heavy feeders and need this organic matter. Rhubarb is a perennial vegetable, though it is generally used as a fruit in desserts and jams. You only eat the stalks, which have a rich tart flavor. The leaves of this plant are poisonous, so be sure that they are not ingested. Rhubarb is easy to grow, but needs cool weather to thrive
CORVALLIS-Early spring, after the ground thaws, is the best time to plant new rhubarb plants and to divide and replant older healthy rhubarb plants. Rhubarb does best in deeply worked, fertile soil with plenty of organic matter. Preferring full sun, rhubarb can also be grown in partial shade. 