Our equipment is designed for large parts, and has the capacity to produce large orders very cost effectively. Call Pat at 800-914-8994 for more information about our free design services and the custom thermoformed plastic clamshell packaging manufactured by Great River Plastics, LLC. We do NOT offer stock products. Clamshell Packaging. Clamshell packaging manufactured by Great River Plastics, LLC, is custom thermoformed for specific retail products. Plastic clamshell packages display products for optimum display value, anti-pilferage, and best use of shelf space.
clamshell packaging. Follow clamshell packaging to get e-mail alerts and updates on your eBay Feed. Unfollow clamshell packaging to stop getting updates on your eBay Feed. Yay! You're now following clamshell packaging in your eBay Feed. 
Stock. Stock Clamshell Packaging FormTight Inc. provides multiple stock clamshell packaging sizes and shapes that would give you off-the-shelf, ready to ship packaging options that fit your specific product’s form, fit and function. 
When it comes to retail packaging, clamshell packaging has the fastest growth rate of clear thermoformed packaging and has become one of the most recognized types of thermoformed package. Material distribution is determined by plugs and process sequence. Process sequence would be vacuum, form air, tool temperature, and the timing of all of those three. Undercuts make the parts difficult to remove from the tool, to de-nest from each other, and to process parts on a heat sealer.
Custom Clamshell Packaging Capabilities at Universal Plastics: Our custom manufacturing expertise along with an ISO 9001:2008 certification allows us to design ideal solutions for all of your custom clamshell packaging needs. 
Stock Plastic Clamshells. The originator of the BlisterBox® line of re-closable hinged clamshell containers, Placon, a family-owned, US-based company has been leading the stock plastic clamshell packaging industry since 1966. 
Our clamshells and clamshell packaging solutions offer many advantages for showcasing products. We have a wide array of model types to choose from, including various boxes, containers, and trays, many of which come standard with tamper evident and theft deterrent features. They are box-shaped containers with a hinged lid and closures, which can be made re-closable or permanently sealed with theft deterrence. An insert card displays product information and graphics. SouthPack can configure custom clamshell packaging in many ways, enabling the package to hang or stand upright.
Custom Thermoformed Packaging. At National Plastics, we do more than just sell clamshell packaging, we sell packaging solutions. Our design team will work with you to create a package that not only functions well, but adds to the aesthetic appeal of your product. 
Plastic Clamshell Packaging. Custom plastic clamshell packaging from Dordan Manufacturing is the ideal packaging medium for protecting and selling your product at retail. 