A notary signing agent is a notary public specially trained to close real estate transactions involving a mortgage. In general, a notary signing agent receives the closing documents from the lender, such as the promissory note, mortgage and deed, as well as any settlement check. Notary Signing Agent. Notary public are used to assure that signed legal documents such as real estate deeds are authentic, as the notary verifies the identity of the person signing the document and witnesses the document being signed.
A Signing Agent may hold a designation such as a Master Closer or Certified Closer from other providers but in fact Signing Agents are never a closer in PA and this is a misleading designation. Notary Signing Agents in PA do not close the loan. They never handle closing procedures nor do they act as closers. The basic definition of a Signing Agent is a Notary Public who handles the execution and notarization of mortgage, refinancing and real estate transactions in the Commonwealth of PA. This designation of Signing Agent is now being used widely. And it varies from state to state and unfortunately from Notary to Notary.
Certification to become a Certified Notary Signing Agent is now available through the Notary Learning Center. Certified Notary Signing Agent Testing is included with all of the Education and Training programs listed below. We also offer just the Certification Test and related reference eBooks purchased separately. Companies on the Notary-Services Signing & Closing Company List know that our certification test covers Notary Public and Notary Signing Agent procedures, requirements, and loan document signing questions.
An Accredited Signing Agent or ASA is a Notary Public extensively trained by PA Notary Academy to handle real estate closings. Our certification course focuses only on PA law and is the only one of its kind in PA. The basic definition of a Signing Agent is a Notary Public who handles the execution and notarization of mortgage, refinancing and real estate transactions in the Commonwealth of PA. This designation of Signing Agent is now being used widely. And it varies from state to state and unfortunately from Notary to Notary.
Some of these documents must also be recorded with the local government recording office. As a notary signing agent or title insurance agent, you participate in real estate transactions by facilitating the closing process. However, the precise activity you can engage in as either a notary signing agent or title insurance agent depends on the laws of the state where the property is located. Notary Signing Agent. Notary public are used to assure that signed legal documents such as real estate deeds are authentic, as the notary verifies the identity of the person signing the document and witnesses the document being signed.
The Certified Notary Signing Agent is a certification program designed to help establish a standard in the Loan Document Signing business. The notary is certified in the signing and correct handling of the notarization of loan documents. A Certified Notary Signing Agent is an individual Notary Public that has his or her training and testing completed with Notary Learning Center. We use a Certified Notary Signing Agent logo on the signing agent's web page to denote that they are a Certified Notary Signing Agent.
A Signing Agent is a duly commissioned notary public who has become skilled in the signing portion of the mortgage loan closing process, through experience and/or education. There are some certification programs available, but being certified is not a legal requirement. The closing agent may also be a notary, and will often locate a suitable signing agent through a service like Statewide Document Services. Even though the time when everyone is sitting down to sign papers is often referred to as a closing, this signing is really only one part of the closing process.
A Certified Signing Agent is an industry-recognized, commissioned Notary Public who specializes in the process of obtaining and notarizing the signatures of the party(ies) involved on real estate loan documents for the purpose of closing a real estate loan transaction. Notary Publics who seek signing agent education and certification should look for a credible, independent entity to administer the training and examination. If you are looking for certified signing agents in Florida, call us today at 954-748-7979. We can provide you with a professional and qualified signing agent.