1 Bilateral parotid gland enlargement and Neck swelling and Lymph node swelling in children (4 causes). 2  Bilateral parotid gland enlargement and Neck swelling and Parotid gland enlargement (4 causes). 3  Bilateral parotid gland enlargement and Neck swelling and Sudden onset of parotid enlarg
Conditions listing medical symptoms: Bilateral parotid gland enlargement: The following list of conditions have ' Bilateral parotid gland enlargement ' or similar listed as a symptom in our database. This computer-generated list may be inaccurate or incomplete.
Parotid enlargement has a wide differential given the significant breadth of pathology that can affect the parotid gland. These can be separated by the standard surgical sieve approach into infective, inflammatory, immune, neoplastic, infiltrative and congenital causes.
The most common cause of swollen salivary glands, salivary stones are buildups of crystallized saliva deposits. Sometimes salivary stones can block the flow of saliva. When saliva can't exit through the ducts, it backs up into the gland, causing pain and swelling.
Viral infections such as mumps, flu, and others can cause swelling of the salivary glands. Swelling happens in parotid glands on both sides of the face, giving the appearance of chipmunk cheeks.. Salivary gland swelling is commonly associated with mumps, happening in about 30% to 40% of mumps infections.
Bilateral parotid gland enlargement Common Causes. Some of the common causes of Bilateral parotid gland enlargement may include: 1  Adenolymphoma. 2  Amyloidosis. 3  Bulimia nervosa. 4  Cirrhosis of liver. 5  Cystic fibrosis. 6  Gamma heavy chain disease. 7  Adenoid cystic carcinoma. 8  more causes...».
1 Mumps is the most common cause of salivary gland infection, although with widespread immunisation its incidence has fallen. 2  It usually causes bilateral swelling of the parotid glands, although the other major salivary glands may also be affected in about 10% of infections.
Causes of bilateral parotid enlargement include: 1  local disease: 2  mumps-more commonly children than adults. 3  parotitis. 4  uveoparotid fever. 5  sialectasis-especially if related to eating. 6  Sjogren's syndrome. 7  tumour infiltration. 8  systemic disease: