* Please read TIA’s post on What Is It: Silicones and Should We Avoid Them. Functions: Stearamidopropyl Dimethylamine is a fatty mine salt, used as a hair care ingredient used as a conditioning and anti-static agent in shampoos and conditioners, and is also sometimes used for its luminescent, pearl-like properties. It serves in some cases as a mild detergent that can remove hair build-up (Happi.com). 
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. Dimethylamine is a colorless, flammable gas with an ammonia-like odor that is usually stored in 40% to 45% concentrations in water. As a health hazard, dimethylamine is recognized in the US to be an immunotoxicant, neurotoxicant, and respiratory toxicant, with detrimental effects also to the cardiovascular and blood systems of the body and gastrointestinal tract upon exposure.
Dimethylamine is used as a raw material to produce agents that remove suspended solids for water clarification in industrial and municipal raw, potable, and wastewater treatment plants. ». 
Dimethylamine is an organic compound with the formula (CH 3) 2 NH. This secondary amine is a colorless, flammable gas with an ammonia-like odor. The toxicology of dimethylamine is discussed as part of a NIH monograph concerning dimethylamine borane. LD 50: 736 mg/kg (mouse, i.p.); 316 mg/kg (mouse, p.o.); 698 mg/kg (rat, p.o.); 3900 mg/kg (rat, dermal); 240 mg/kg (guinea pig or rabbit, p.o.).
Dimethylamine is a precursor to several industrially significant compounds. It reacts with carbon disulfide to give dimethyl dithiocarbamate, a precursor to a family of chemicals widely used in the vulcanization of rubber. The solvents dimethylformamide and dimethylacetamide are derived from dimethylamine. The toxicology of dimethylamine is discussed as part of a NIH monograph concerning dimethylamine borane. LD 50: 736 mg/kg (mouse, i.p.); 316 mg/kg (mouse, p.o.); 698 mg/kg (rat, p.o.); 3900 mg/kg (rat, dermal); 240 mg/kg (guinea pig or rabbit, p.o.).
The methylamine keeps flowing, no matter what. We are not ramping down. We're just getting started. Nothing stops this train.. ― Walter White. Methylamine (CH 3 NH 2) is an organic compound. The gas is a derivative of ammonia, but with one H atom replaced by a methyl group. It is the simplest primary amine. It is sold as a solution in methanol, ethanol, THF, and water, or as the anhydrous gas in pressurized metal containers. 
Definition of DIMETHYLAMINE. : an easily condensable gaseous compound (CH3)2NH having a strong ammoniacal odor made by catalytic reaction of methanol with ammonia or methylamine and used chiefly in organic syntheses (as of vulcanization accelerators for rubber). ADVERTISEMENT. Origin of DIMETHYLAMINE. International Scientific Vocabulary dimethyl + amine. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged.
Dimethylamine reacts with acids to form salts, such as dimethylamine hydrochloride, an odorless white solid with a melting point of 171.5 °C. Dimethylamine is produced by catalytic reaction of methanol and ammonia at elevated temperatures and high pressure: The toxicology of dimethylamine is discussed as part of a NIH monograph concerning dimethylamine borane. LD 50: 736 mg/kg (mouse, i.p.); 316 mg/kg (mouse, p.o.); 698 mg/kg (rat, p.o.); 3900 mg/kg (rat, dermal); 240 mg/kg (guinea pig or rabbit, p.o.).
Methylamine is an organic compound with a formula of CH 3 NH 2. This colorless gas is a derivative of ammonia, but with one H atom replaced by a methyl group. It is the simplest primary amine. It is sold as a solution in methanol, ethanol, THF, and water, or as the anhydrous gas in pressurized metal containers. Industrially, methylamine is transported in its anhydrous form in pressurized railcars and tank trailers. Methylamine is prepared commercially by the reaction of ammonia with methanol in the presence of a silicoaluminate catalyst. Dimethylamine and trimethylamine are coproduced; the reaction kinetics and reactant ratios determine the ratio of the three products.
Dimethylamine is a weak base and the pKa of the ammonium salt CH 3 -NH 2 + -CH 3 is 10.73, a value above methylamine (10.64) and trimethylamine (9.79). The toxicology of dimethylamine is discussed as part of a NIH monograph concerning dimethylamine borane. LD 50: 736 mg/kg (mouse, i.p.); 316 mg/kg (mouse, p.o.); 698 mg/kg (rat, p.o.); 3900 mg/kg (rat, dermal); 240 mg/kg (guinea pig or rabbit, p.o.).