Best Answer: Trachea is a common biological term for an airway through which respiratory air transport takes place in organisms. The cells that line the trachea have minuscule hairs, which collect any dust that you inhale, and prevent it from entering your lungs. It is then removed by coughing. To prevent food from entering your windpipe, it has a small flap of skin at the entrance (epiglottis). When you eat, this flap closes over your trachea to prevent food from entering. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trachea. ɷ ɹəɥʇɐəɥ ɷLogan born 8/18/09 · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
By closing at this time, the mitral valve prevents the oxygenated blood in the left ventricle from flowing back to the lungs. The left ventricle is the pumping chamber of the left side of the heart and is the most muscular portion of the heart. 
The structure known as epiglottis folds to cover the trachea (breathing tube) from the esophagus (eating tube) and prevents any water or food from entering the lungs. 15 people found this useful. It is a flap of skin found just above the vocal chords and larynx (the windpipe) whic … h leads to the lungs. When a person swallows, the epiglottis folds over top of the vocal cords and blocks off the larynx, preventing food from entering our lungs.
The aortic valve closes quickly to prevent blood from flowing back into the left ventricle, which is already filling up with new blood. Blood leaves the heart through the aortic valve, into the aorta and to the body. This pattern is repeated, causing blood to flow continuously to the heart, lungs and body. 
Epiglottis. The epiglottis is a flap of soft cartilage, covered by a mucous membrane. It is attached to the back of the tongue and acts as a valve during swallowing to prevent food and liquid from entering the lungs. This valve closes when we swallow food, liquid, even saliva, without us having to think about doing so. In other words, it is an unconscious action
1 The other is the trachea, which is the opening air must pass through to get to the lungs. 2  When swallowing occurs, the trachea is covered by a flap called the epiglottis, which prevents food from entering the lungs. 3  The trachea splits into the left and right main stem bronchae. 4  These lead to the left and right lungs. 1 When swallowing occurs, the trachea is covered by a flap called the epiglottis, which prevents food from entering the lungs. 2  The trachea splits into the left and right main stem bronchae. 3  These lead to the left and right lungs. 4  They branch into increasingly smaller tubes as they spread throughout
Confidence votes 194. The epiglottis normally keeps this from happening. * How The Epiglottis Works: When you swallow, a small flap-called the epiglottis-briefly covers the top of the windpipe (or trachea) so that food goes the right way, into the digestive system, and not the wrong way, into the respiratory tract.
The structure of the throat is designed to prevent food from entering the lungs. Photo Credit matthewennisphotography/iStock/Getty Images. When food enters the lungs instead of the esophagus, it affects breathing and can cause choking and other problems. The structures inside the mouth and neck each have a distinct role in breathing, speaking and swallowing.
The usual upright position of the epiglottis allows air to flow into the lungs and the larynx. When you swallow, the epiglottis flattens backward to cover the entrance to your larynx and prevent food from entering the lungs and windpipe. When food enters the lungs instead of the esophagus, it affects breathing and can cause choking and other problems. The structures inside the mouth and neck each have a distinct role in breathing, speaking and swallowing.