To make Google the default search engine within Internet Explorer, click the gear icon in IE's window. Choose Manage Add-ons from the resulting drop-down menu and click Search Providers.. Click Google to highlight this search option, and then click Set As Default..
Click Find more search providers in the Manage search providers window. Enter Google in the search box and click Install search provider.. Click the check box next to Make this my default search provider in the confirmation box that appears.
To do so, look for a search bar at the top of your browser-usually next to or on top of the address bar. The logo of your default search engine will be displayed on the left side. Click on it to open a drop-down list containing some options for search engines, such as Google, Yahoo, and Bing. 2. Change to Google.
Step 2: Change your search engine to Google — Click the Search Providers option on the left-hand side, select Google, and click the Set as default button in the bottom-right corner.
Google Search is installed but not set as your default search provider. To default to Google, here’s how you do it: 1  Click the Tools icon at the far right of the browser window. 2  Select Internet options. 3  In the General tab, find the Search section and click Settings.
Google is listed on the page, but you’ll also find other search engines like DuckDuckGo. Click the Add to Internet Explorer button on the page. When the Add Search Provider window appears, click the Make this my default search provider checkbox and click Add.
Click the Down arrow in the search box. This is located next to the magnifying glass icon. Select Manage Search Providers after you've clicked the down arrow. Select Google from the list of search providers and click Set as default.. Click OK to save your settings.
Google Search is installed but not set as your default search provider. To default to Google, here’s how you do it: 1  Click the Tools icon at the far right of the browser window. 2  Select Internet options. 3  In the General tab, find the Search section and click Settings. 4  Select Google. 5  Click Set as default and click Close.
Click on the arrow to the right of the Internet Explorer search box. Select Manage Search Providers and click on Google.. Click the Set as Default button to set Google as your default search engine, then close the search menu.