From the Hebrew name גַבְרִיאֵל (Gavri'el) meaning God is my strong man. Gabriel was one of the seven archangels in Hebrew tradition. He appears in both the Old Testament and the New Testament, where he serves as the announcer of the births of John to Zechariah and Jesus to Mary. 
[ 3 syll. ga-brie-le, gab-ri-ele ] The baby girl name Gabriele is also used as a boy name. It is pronounced Gaa-BRiy-EH L †. Gabriele is of Hebrew origin and it is used mainly in German. The meaning of Gabriele is 'woman of God, heroine of God; my strength is God'. It is a biblical name derived from geber which means 'man, strong man' ; el ' God, powerful '. The generic name has been used in various contexts, including the New Testament of the Bible and the Old Testament. Out of the family of girl names directly related to Gabriele, Gabriella was the most regularly used in 2012. Baby names that sound like Gabriele include Gabrielle, Gabriel, Gabriela, Gavrielle, Gavrila, Gavrilla, Gabriella, Gavriela, and Gavriella.
Hebrew Meaning: The name Gabriele is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Gabriele is: God is my strength. Italian Meaning: The name Gabriele is an Italian baby name. In Italian the meaning of the name Gabriele is: God given strength'.
The name Gabrielle is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Gabrielle is: Woman of God. A feminine form of the Hebrew name Gabriel. American Meaning: The name Gabrielle is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Gabrielle is: Woman of God. A feminine form of the Hebrew name Gabriel. Hebrew Meaning: The name Gabrielle is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Gabrielle is: God gives strength
Gabrielle /gab-ri-elle/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced gab-ree-ELL. It is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Gabrielle is heroine of God. Feminine of Gabriel. Tennis player Gabriela Sabatini; fashion designer Gabrielle Coco Chanel; volleyball player Gabby Reece. 
The Italian name Gabriele means-From the Hebrew name Gabriel, meaning God is my might.. Gabriel Mirabeau '1749-1791' was a protagonists of the French Revolution; writer, poet, militarist, and intellectual Gabriele D'An-nunzio (1863-1938), became famous for his eccentric ways and his affair with actress Eleonora Duse. 
Gabriel (Hebrew: גַבְרִיאֵל) is a given name or surname derived from the Hebrew name Gabriel meaning God is my strength. It was popularized by the association with the Biblical archangel Gabriel. 
Origin of the name Gabriela: Feminine form of Gabriel, which is derived from the Hebrew gavhrī’ēl (God is my strength). Gabriel is borne in the Bible by one of the seven archangels, the herald of Good News who appeared to Mary to announce her pregnancy and the impending birth of the Christ child. 
Origin of the name Gabrielle: Feminine form of Gabriel, which is derived from the Hebrew gavhrī’ēl (God is my strength). Gabriel is borne in the Bible by one of the seven archangels, the herald of Good News who appeared to Mary to announce her pregnancy and the impending birth of the Christ child. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
Gabriele /gab-ri-ele/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used as girls' name Gabriele). Gabriele's name origin is Hebrew, and the meaning of the name Gabriele is man of God; my strength is God. Gabriele is an alternate form of Gabriel (Hebrew): from Hebrew gheber man. Compare surname Gabriella. Kreatif forms: Gabriege, Giabriele, Gubriele