Cardamom has a strong, unique taste, with an intensely aromatic, resinous fragrance. Black cardamom has a distinctly more smokey, though not bitter, aroma, with a coolness some consider similar to mint. Green cardamom is one of the most expensive spices by weight, but little is needed to impart flavor. Both forms of cardamom are used as flavorings and cooking spices in both food and drink, and as a medicine. E. cardamomum (green cardamom) is used as a spice, a masticatory, and in medicine; it is also smoked.
It is very strong and aromatic. It has a spicy, herbal, citrusy character and goes very well with cinnamon, nutmeg, allspice, clove, and other aromatic spices without really tasting anything like them. Also with citrus such as preserved lemons, lemon or orange zest, etc. It's one of my favorite spices. It has a sweet taste.I usually mix it with other spices to make a BBQ rub that is hot and sweet.It does not take much to add a sweet flavor,its a fine powder.
It really has its very own taste spicy strong taste. It is part of the ginger family, but I don't think it tastes like ginger at all. I would say that it plays in a role similar to, and complementary of, cinnamon. It has a sweet taste.I usually mix it with other spices to make a BBQ rub that is hot and sweet.It does not take much to add a sweet flavor,its a fine powder.
Cardamom seeds. Cardamom (/ˈkɑrdəməm/), sometimes called cardamon (mostly in the UK) , is a spice made from the seeds of several plants in the genera Elettaria and Amomum in the family Zingiberaceae. Both genera are native to India, the largest producer until the late 20th century; Bangladesh, Bhutan, Indonesia, Nepal, and Pakistan. Both forms of cardamom are used as flavorings and cooking spices in both food and drink, and as a medicine. E. cardamomum (green cardamom) is used as a spice, a masticatory, and in medicine; it is also smoked.
Cardamom Recipe Photo. A little goes a long way when you're cooking with cardamom. This pungent spice tastes something like ginger with a pinch of pine and has an aroma reminiscent of eucalyptus. Cardamom flavors everything from Scandinavian pastries to Indian curries. Its flavor diminishes once the green pods are opened and the dark brown seeds are ground, so it is important to store cardamom correctly. Always keep it in an airtight container and avoid extremes of heat, light and humidity. You can get a taste of cardamom in these tried-and-true recipes.
What it is: Cardamom seeds are an aromatic spice belonging to the ginger family. They’re native to Sri Lanka and parts of India. How it tastes : Green cardamom is the most commonly known variety and has a sweet spicy flavor with hints of citrus. Some people describe it as a cross between cinnamon and ginger. Yellow or brown is said to have a stronger flavor and be slightly smoky. White cardomom is quite rare and has a much milder flavor
I am planning out my wedding cake, and wanted to make a delicious vanilla spice cake however I wanted to do something special to take it up a notch. I have been doing some research, and quite a few recipes suggest cardamom, and coriander; however I do not have any experience with these spices. 
You can also buy cardamom without the pods, called cardamom seeds = decorticated cardamom, but the unprotected seeds lose flavor quickly. Ground cardamom seeds are even less flavorful. Recipes that call for cardamom usually intend for you to use green cardamom, named for the green pods that encase the seeds. Undo. lindac. With that amount of cardamom called for in the recipe, there will be nothing you can substitute that will taste similar. If I find a recipe for something that I don't have and don't want to buy, I look for another recipe.
I think it has it's own flavor. Kind of a cross between nutmeg and mace but a different. If you have eaten Scandinavian breads, you have had it. It is very good and very expensive compared to other spices. If you have a health food store nearby, you may find some in bulk that is the cheapest way to buy it. It comes ground or you can buy the pods and crush them yourself. 