Damper windings in synchronous motor will carryout the same task of induction motor rotor windings. Therefore due to damper windings synchronous motor starts as induction motor and continue to accelerate). When the motor attains about 95% of the synchronous speed, the rotor windings is connected to exciter terminals and the rotor is magnetically locked by the rotating magnetic field of stator and it runs as a synchronous motor.
Damper windings are auxiliary windings.It is connected in series with the field windings.The purpose of this winding is to help the main windings to set up the complete and sufficient field for the satisfacory working without any discontinuity. Best Answer: The damper (or ammortisseur) winding is a path for circulation of induced currents when the generator is operating at other than rated speed. That does two things: 1. In generators, it does what the name implies-it increases damping.
The winding also serves to damp the oscillations of the rotor around the synchronous speed, and is therefore named the damping-winding (also known as amortisseurs or damper-windings). Source(s): http://media.wiley.com/product_data/exce... Best Answer: The damper (or ammortisseur) winding is a path for circulation of induced currents when the generator is operating at other than rated speed. That does two things: 1. In generators, it does what the name implies-it increases damping.
When an ac supply is provided to stator of a 3-phase synchronous motor, stator winding produces rotating magnetic field. Due to the damper winding present in the rotor winding of the synchronous motor, machine starts as induction motor (Induction machine works on the principle of induction. When the motor attains about 95% of the synchronous speed, the rotor windings is connected to exciter terminals and the rotor is magnetically locked by the rotating magnetic field of stator and it runs as a synchronous motor.
1 By providing damper windings in the rotor of synchronous motor Hunting of machinecan be suppressed.When there is change in load, excitation or change in other conditions of the systems rotor of the synchronous motor will oscillate to and fro about an equilibrium position. When the motor attains about 95% of the synchronous speed, the rotor windings is connected to exciter terminals and the rotor is magnetically locked by the rotating magnetic field of stator and it runs as a synchronous motor.
The damper winding (also known as ammortisseur) is mostly used in synchronous machine-in stator of synchronous generator and rotor of synchronous motor. It provides some specific advantage to synchronous machines like – smooth starting and compensating the transient effect or unbalanced condition. The rotor of induction machine is mostly of squirrel cage type which is short circuited thus provides high current in start up. Damper winding in synchronous machine is placed in the coil slots and short circuited.
Function of damper winding in synchronous machine: 1.Self starting of synchronous machine: The core concept is that damper winding being short circuited carry high current, creates magnetic flux like as induction machine. Thus there is pulling in or better torque in starting. The rotor of induction machine is mostly of squirrel cage type which is short circuited thus provides high current in start up. Damper winding in synchronous machine is placed in the coil slots and short circuited.
When the machine reached in synchronism, there will be no current in damper winding as there is no relative motion between rotor and stator. 2.Compensation of transient s by damping the rotational fluctuation (hunting) caused by unbalanced loading, torque etc. The rotor of induction machine is mostly of squirrel cage type which is short circuited thus provides high current in start up. Damper winding in synchronous machine is placed in the coil slots and short circuited.
Synchronous Machines • Example of a rotating electric machine • DC field winding on the rotor, AC armature winding on the stator • May function as a generator (MECHANICAL AE æ) electrical or a (MOTOR ELECTRICAL AE) • æ mechanical origin: of = name, syn = equal. chronos time 