Rome had a… (What was Rome’s influence on the US?)  Rome had been ruled by a monarchy,  Expanded greatly during its republican period that lasted until Caesar became emperor  Members of the Roman Senate held the greatest amount of power  The Romans used a Republican form of Government-Representative Democracy. 
Of all of the contributions of ancient Greece to modern culture, arguably the greatest is democracy, which is itself a Greek word literally meaning people power.. The democratic tradition in city-states such as Athens embodied the ideals of legal equality, personal freedom and governance by the people. Ancient Greece is not just ancient history. The legacy of this classical culture has had a significant influence on culture today, from athletic spectacles such as the Olympics to the storytelling structure of Hollywood films.
Ancient Greek democracy had a deep influence on the design of political institutions in the United States. The various members of the founding generation of the United States saw ancient Athens -- the cradle of Greek democracy -- as both an inspirational model and also as an example of dangerous excess. While most members of the U.S.'s founding generation -- with the exception of Thomas Paine -- looked to ancient Greek democracy as a negative example to be avoided, the influence of ancient democracy today is more complex.
Ancient Greece made a huge impact on America which is evident even today. The ancient Greeks helped to lay the foundations for art, literature, theater, math, science, architecture, engineering and warfare. In fact, practically every area of American lives is influenced by Ancient Greece. The ancient Greeks gave America and the rest of the world formulas and theorems. In addition, they provided written records that ended up being the foundation of all that followed in every basic field of study. Many people are under the misconception that democracy was created by the founding fathers of America. However, the ideas for democracy were first established in ancient Greece and later expanded by the Romans.
Ancient Greek Culture and Civilization. Ancient Greek Culture was the birthplace of Western civilisation about 4000 years ago. Ancient Greece produced many magnificent achievements in areas of government, science, philosophy and the arts that still influence our lives. 1  Democracy. 2  Sciences. 3  Philosophy. 4  Art. 5  Architecture. 
Lasting Contributions to the Modern World The ideas of ancient Greece and Rome have had a lasting impact on modern society, most notably in the realm of politics. The ancient Athenians gave us the ideal of democracy, in which citizens participate in their own government. As they were forming their own ideas about the world, they were learning about and absorbing the ideals of ancient Greece and Rome. It is no wonder that when they were building the foundations of American government, they looked to ancient Greece and Rome for inspiration.
Ancient Democracy Today. While most members of the U.S.'s founding generation -- with the exception of Thomas Paine -- looked to ancient Greek democracy as a negative example to be avoided, the influence of ancient democracy today is more complex.
How have the Greek and Roman civilizations influenced the US. The Greek and Roman civilizations influenced us today in many ways. There way of doing things 2000 years ago is now a structure on how we do things now. They influenced how we use politics like a congress and senate to democracies. The also help economical ways, by buying and trading things across seas. There are many ways that the Greek and Roman civilizations have influenced the USA. Many of the ways are political, in the Greek civilizations, also known as a Polis, would have group meetings of all the citizens in the city to discuss the public affairs, to choose officials, and to make and pass laws.
There is enough evidence to point out that ancient Greece had a profound influence on America and this influence is evident even today when one takes into consideration the cultural diversity, and the strides America has made in science, art, engineering, warfare and literature. Many people are under the misconception that democracy was created by the founding fathers of America. However, the ideas for democracy were first established in ancient Greece and later expanded by the Romans.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: American society as you see it today is more influenced by Rome and less by Greece. That is because American society: 1) Is a very strict one (too much police) which is of course a Roman element. In Ancient Greece people were afraid only of their Gods. They considered them as the keepers of society's laws. 2) Don't have direct democracy as in Athens. Instead they have a media controlled democracy which is closer to the Emperor+Siglitos type of government Rome had