The USDA also classifies calcium-fortified soy milk as a dairy product, even though it's made from the soybean plant, not from animal milk. Foods made from milk that don't contain calcium are not classified as dairy products -- and thus don't belong to the milk, yogurt and cheese group. Milk is the most basic of dairy products. Foods classified by the USDA as dairy products supply calcium to the diet. Calcium is stored in your bones, which makes them dense. Too little calcium in your diet can increase your risk of developing low bone density and fractures.
Macaroni and Cheese Recipes. Find easy-to-make, crowd-pleasing macaroni and cheese recipes from Ree, Trisha, Ina and more of the chefs at Food Network. 
What food group does cheese belong? Cheese is a member of the Milk Group (out of grains, vegetables, fruits, milk, and meat and beans). Cheese is a generic term for a diverse group of milk-based food products. C … heese is produced throughout the world in wide-ranging flavors, textures, and forms. 13 people found this useful. Robin Harris.
Build Strong Bones with Dairy. Cheese is in the dairy group, which also includes milk and yogurt. One serving of cheese consists of 1 1/2 ounces -- and most children and adults should consume three servings per day. Cheese and other dairy products provide protein and calcium, which is an essential mineral for bone health. A cheese sandwich can be a meal on its own or might be an accompaniment to soup or salad. Cheese sandwiches can vary widely -- and the food groups they contain and their nutritional composition depends on how you make them. Choose healthy ingredients to get the most from your cheese sandwiches.
Cream cheese, cream and sour cream also are made primarily from milk fat and also don't contain calcium, so they don't count toward your daily dairy requirements and don't belong in the nutritional group with milk, yogurt and cheese. Foods classified by the USDA as dairy products supply calcium to the diet. Calcium is stored in your bones, which makes them dense. Too little calcium in your diet can increase your risk of developing low bone density and fractures.
1 Place the lightly cooked macaroni in the prepared baking dish. 2  Pour the egg and cheese liquid over the macaroni, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and stir well. 3  Press the mixture evenly around the baking dish. 4  Bake uncovered, for 30 to 40 minutes, or until the top is brown. 1 Whisk the egg and milk together in a large cup. 2  Add butter and cheese to the egg and milk. 3  Stir well. 4  Place the lightly cooked macaroni in the prepared baking dish. 5
Cheese Pizza belongs to the food group Grains, because it is made mostly out of dough (flour.) Pizza is not a healthy way to get your serving of grains though, as it is extrem … ely high in fat and carbohydrates, yet low in fibre. It really should be placed in the Junk category of food groups. Cheese is a member of the Milk Group (out of grains, vegetables, fruits, milk, and meat and beans). Cheese is a generic term for a diverse group of milk-based food products. C … heese is produced throughout the world in wide-ranging flavors, textures, and forms. 13 people found this useful. Robin Harris.