Bacterial conjunctivitis is a common type of pink eye, caused by bacteria that infect the eye through various sources of contamination. The bacteria can be spread through contact with an infected individual, exposure to contaminated surfaces or through other means such as sinus or ear infections. Viral conjunctivitis also can accompany common viral upper respiratory infections such as measles, the flu or the common cold. Viral conjunctivitis usually produces a watery discharge. Typically the infection starts in one eye and quickly spreads to the other eye.
Conjunctivitis, also known as pink eye is inflammation of the conjunctiva (the outermost layer of the eye and the inner surface of the eyelids). Conjunctivitis can affect one or both eyes and is the most likely diagnosis in someone with eye redness and discharge (fluid coming from the eye). The affected eye is often stuck shut in the morning. Bacterial and viral conjunctivitis are highly contagious, and are transmitted through contact with the discharge.
Viral and bacterial conjunctivitis. Viral conjunctivitis and bacterial conjunctivitis may affect one or both eyes. Viral conjunctivitis usually produces a watery discharge. Bacterial conjunctivitis often produces a thicker, yellow-green discharge. Both types can be associated with colds or symptoms of a respiratory infection, such as a sore throat. Both viral and bacterial types are very contagious. They are spread through direct or indirect contact with the eye secretions of someone who's infected. Adults and children alike can develop both of these types of pink eye. Bacterial conjunctivitis is more common in children than it is in adults. 
Conjunctivitis may be caused by a viral or bacterial infection. It can also occur due to an allergic reaction to irritants in the air like pollen and smoke, chlorine in swimming pools, and ingredients in cosmetics or other products that come in contact with the eyes. 
The most common types of bacteria that cause bacterial conjunctivitis include Staphylococcus aureus, Haemophilus influenzae, Streptococcus pneumoniae and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Bacterial conjunctivitis usually produces a thick eye discharge or pus and can affect one or both eyes. Viral conjunctivitis also can accompany common viral upper respiratory infections such as measles, the flu or the common cold. Viral conjunctivitis usually produces a watery discharge. Typically the infection starts in one eye and quickly spreads to the other eye.
(May 2012). Conjunctivitis, also known as pink eye is inflammation of the conjunctiva (the outermost layer of the eye and the inner surface of the eyelids). It is commonly due to an infection (usually viral, but sometimes bacterial or parasitic), or an allergic reaction. Conjunctivitis can affect one or both eyes and is the most likely diagnosis in someone with eye redness and discharge (fluid coming from the eye). The affected eye is often stuck shut in the morning. Bacterial and viral conjunctivitis are highly contagious, and are transmitted through contact with the discharge.
Conjunctivitis when caused by an infection is most commonly caused by a viral infection. Bacterial infections, allergies, other irritants and dryness are also common causes. Both bacterial and viral infections are contagious and passed from person to person, but can also spread through contaminated objects or water. Conjunctivitis can affect one or both eyes and is the most likely diagnosis in someone with eye redness and discharge (fluid coming from the eye). The affected eye is often stuck shut in the morning. Bacterial and viral conjunctivitis are highly contagious, and are transmitted through contact with the discharge.
Causes and Types of Eye Infections. Examples of viral, fungal and bacterial eye infections include: 1  Pink eye, or conjunctivitis. 2  Conjunctivitis, also called pink eye, is a common, highly contagious eye infection that often is spread among children in day care centers, classrooms and similar environments. 
Viral vs Bacterial Pink Eye. Both viruses and bacteria can cause pink eye. Conjunctivitis, uveitis, irits, elevated pressure in the eye, as well as sinusitis, can also cause pink eye. The commonest cause of pink eye is conjunctivitis. Conjunctivitis can be due to viruses, bacteria, allergies, or chemicals. Viral Pink Eye. Viral conjunctivitis is caused by viruses that cause upper respiratory tract infections. Therefore, it accompanies common cold, sinusitis, and throat inflammation. It features excessive production of tears, itching, pain and blurred vision sometimes.