Have your photograph taken. Pay a $25 fee and obtain a Temporary Operator's Permit. The TOP allows you to drive until your Michigan driver's license arrives in the mail. (A written test is required for anyone converting an out-of-state license with a hazardous materials endorsement.). 
The types of licenses one may obtain are the same in all the European Economic Area. See European driving licence. The minimum age to obtain a driving license is: 16 years for a restricted motorcycle up to 125 cm³, 17 years for a car, and 21 years for buses and cargo vehicles. The actual driver's license is then handed out once the person turns 18. The cost of obtaining a license for driving a car is on average 1,400€ (US$1,800 in September 2014) but varies widely according to an individual's skill, city and region. Individual driving schools set their own prices. The total contains fees for authorities and exams, learning materials, driving lessons and tuition
NCDMV-North Carolina Division of Motor Vehicles. License Expiration Your license is issued for a period of 5 or 8 years depending on your age. Ages 18 to 65: 8 years Age 66 or older: 5 years The cost of a license & endorsements is based on the yearly charge. Health If you suffer from a mental or physical disability that might affect driving safety, a license may not be issued. Step 1, Choose License Type. Determine which license is appropriate for you. 1  For drivers the age of 18 or over, a regular Driver License or Learner Permit (continue on this page). 2  Commercial Driver License 3  (. ) for heavy transport vehicles or high-occupancy passenger vehicles.
Rules. You are entitled to apply for a driving licence if you have passed the driving test for that category of vehicle within the previous 2 years. If the Certificate of Competency you were issued with is over 2 years old, you will have to pass the driving test again. 
You can apply for a provisional driving licence when you’re 15 years and 9 months old. You can start driving when you’re: 1  17 if you want to drive a car. 2  16 if you want to ride a moped or light quad bike. To get your first provisional driving licence online for a car, motorcycle or moped you must: 1  be a resident of Great Britain-there’s a different service in Northern Ireland. 2  meet the minimum age requirement. 3  meet the minimum eyesight
Driving licence fees. There are different fees if you want to renew, exchange or amend your driving licence-or get a replacement if yours has been lost, stolen or damaged. There are different driving licence fees in Northern Ireland. This costs £20
Get your license. Before you leave the licensing office, you’ll need to turn in your out-of-state driver license/ID card. You’ll get a temporary license that allows you to drive for 45 days. Your permanent license will be mailed within 7–10 days. If you don’t receive it within 30 days, please go to a driver licensing office. 