His policies towards non-Muslims were less liberal than Jahangir and Akbar. The period of his reign was considered the golden age of Mughal architecture. Shah Jahan erected many monuments, the most famous of which is the Taj Mahal at Agra, built in 1632–1654 as a tomb for his beloved wife Mumtaz Mahal. 
Definition: The Taj Mahal is a white marble mausoleum in the city of Agra, India. The Taj Mahal was built by the Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan to honor Mumtaz Mahal, his beloved third wife. She died while bearing their fourteenth child, and Shah Jahan never really recovered from the loss. Construction of the mausoleum was completed around 1648
India’s most emblematic monument, the Taj Mahal, is probably one of the best known structures in the world. Built in white marble by Emperor Shah Jahan, in memory of his wife Mumtaz after her death, the Taj Mahal is famous world over as the monument of love. 1 The construction of the Taj Mahal began in 1632 and was completed in 1653. 2  It took a total of twenty two years to complete the construction of this monument. 3  The architecture of the Taj Mahal is a combination of Indian, Persian and Islamic styles of architecture.
Taj Mahal was built by a Muslim, Emperor Shah Jahan (died 1666 C.E.) in the memory of his dear wife and queen Mumtaz Mahal at Agra, India. It is an elegy in marble or some say an expression of a dream.. Taj Mahal (meaning Crown Palace) is a Mausoleum that houses the grave of queen Mumtaz Mahal at the lower chamber. Taj Mahal is regarded as one of the eight wonders of the world, and some Western historians have noted that its architectural beauty has never been surpassed. The Taj is the most beautiful monument built by the Mughals, the Muslim rulers of India. Taj Mahal is built entirely of white marble.
Design & Construction of Taj Mahal. Taj Mahal was constructed over a period of twenty-two years, employing twenty thousand workers. It was completed in 1648 C.E. at a cost of 32 Million Rupees. The construction documents show that its master architect was Ustad ‘Isa, the renowned Islamic architect of his time. Taj Mahal is regarded as one of the eight wonders of the world, and some Western historians have noted that its architectural beauty has never been surpassed. The Taj is the most beautiful monument built by the Mughals, the Muslim rulers of India. Taj Mahal is built entirely of white marble.
The Taj Mahal is located in Agra, a city in the Uttar Pradesh region of northern India. It was built as the final resting place for Mumtaz Mahal, the third wife of Mughal emperor Shah Jahan. The name Taj Mahal means “crown of palaces”. Construction of the Taj Mahal took around 20 years, beginning around 1632 and finishing around 1653.
The Taj Mahal is the magnificent white marble tomb of Mughal empress Mumtaz Mahal. One of the most famous buildings in the world, the Taj Mahal is the mausoleum of Mumtaz Mahal, the Mughal emperor Shah Jahan's favorite wife who died unexpectedly during childbirth in 1631. 
The Taj Mahal is actually an integrated complex of structures with the white domed marble mausoleum being its most significant component. Entrusted to a board-of-architects by the Emperor Shah Jahan, the construction of the Taj Complex began about 1631 AD. 
By Jen Rosenberg. The Taj Mahal is a beautiful, white-marble mausoleum built by Mughul emperor Shah Jahan for his beloved wife, Mumtaz Mahal. Located on the southern bank of the Yamuna River near Agra, India, the Taj Mahal took 22 years to build, finally being completed in 1653. 