1 An integral part of the pathogenesis of disease requires bacteria to become associated with the host cells. 2  Epstein-Barr virus may play a role in the pathogenesis of this disease. 3  We also explore the current views on the pathogenesis of thyroid eye disease and their clinical implications. Example sentences. 1 
Medical Definition of ETIOPATHOGENESIS. : the cause and development of a disease or abnormal condition.
pathogenesis. the development of morbid conditions or of disease; more specifically the cellular events and reactions and other pathological mechanisms occurring in the development of disease. Includes the study of the relationship between the cause and the lesions, and that between the lesion and the clinical signs.
Collins English Dictionary 5th Edition first published in 2000 © HarperCollins Publishers 1979, 1986, 1991, 1994, 1998, 2000 and Collins A-Z Thesaurus 1st edition first published in 1995 © HarperCollins Publishers 1995. 
: the origination and development of a disease. 
pathogenesis. the development of morbid conditions or of disease; more specifically the cellular events and reactions and other pathologic mechanisms occurring in the development of disease. adj., adj pathogenet´ic. (path'ō-jen'ĕ-sis), the development of morbid conditions or of disease; more specifically the cellular events and reactions and other pathological mechanisms occurring in the development of disease. Includes the study of the relationship between the cause and the lesions, and that between the lesion and the clinical signs.
Pathogenesis. The pathogenesis of a disease is the mechanism that causes the disease. The term can also describe the origin and development of the disease, and whether it is acute, chronic, or recurrent. The word comes from the Greek pathos and genesis. Types of pathogenesis include microbial infection, inflammation, malignancy and tissue breakdown. Most diseases are caused by multiple processes. For example, certain cancers arise from dysfunction of the immune system.
1. pathogenesis-the origination and development of a disease. focalisation, focalization-the confinement of an infection to a limited area. pathologic process, pathological process-an organic process occurring as a consequence of disease. Lyon, France) has patented a novel nucleic acid fragment of the genome of rice pathogenic fungus Magnaporthe grisea comprising a gene coding for a protein (hereafter referred to as gene 763) whereof the presence and integrity are indispensable for. of said fungus with respect to rice and barley.
The manner of development of a disease. Example sentences. 1  An integral part of the pathogenesis of disease requires bacteria to become associated with the host cells. 2  Epstein-Barr virus may play a role in the pathogenesis of this disease.