Peptic ulcer disease (PUD), also known as a peptic ulcer or stomach ulcer, is a break in the lining of the stomach, first part of the small intestine, or occasionally the lower esophagus. An ulcer in the stomach is known as a gastric ulcer while that in the first part of the intestines is known as a duodenal ulcer. The most common symptoms are waking at night with upper abdominal pain or upper abdominal pain that improves with eating. Common causes include the bacteria, Helicobacter pylori and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Other less common causes include tobacco smoking, stress due to serious illness, Behcet disease, Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, Crohn disease and liver cirrhosis, among others.
1 Peptic ulcers are sores in the lining of the stomach or duodenum. 2  Peptic ulcer formation is related to H. pylori bacteria in the stomach and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications (NSAIDs) in 50% of patients. A peptic ulcer of the stomach is called a gastric ulcer; of the duodenum, a duodenal ulcer; and of the esophagus, an esophageal ulcer. Peptic ulcers occur when the lining of these organs is corroded by the acidic digestive (peptic) juices which are secreted by the cells of the stomach.
Peptic Ulcer Disease: Causes Protective vs. Hostile Factors “No gastric acid, no peptic ulcer” is a misconception. Excessive gastric acid secretion is only one factor in the pathogenesis of peptic ulcer disease. Decreasedmucosal defense against gastric acid is another cause. Figure 4. Pathogenesis of peptic ulcer disease. Helicobacter pylori H. pylori is the etiologic factor in most patients with peptic ulcer disease and may predispose individuals to the development of gastric carcinoma.
The most common cause for peptic ulcer disease is Helicobacter pylori (pronounced HEE-li-co BACK-ter pie-LOR-ee or HELL-uh-koh-BAK-tur py-LOH-ree) infection, also called H. pylori infection. Helicobacter pylori are spiral-shaped bacteria that are found in contaminated food and water. Helicobacter pylori infection can cause peptic ulcer disease, gastritis (inflammation of the stomach lining), and other complications (e.g., stomach [gastric] cancer).
Peptic ulcer disease is the underlying cause in less than 5 to 8 percent of patients presenting with gastric outlet obstruction. Patients with recurrent duodenal or pyloric channel ulcers may develop pyloric stenosis as a result of acute inflammation, spasm, edema, or scarring and fibrosis. Upper gastrointestinal bleeding occurs in 15 to 20 percent of patients with peptic ulcer disease. It is the most common cause of death and the most common indication for surgery in the disease. In older persons, 20 percent of bleeding episodes result from asymptomatic ulcers.
1 Peptic ulcer formation is related to H. pylori bacteria in the stomach and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications (NSAIDs) in 50% of patients. 2  For the remaining 50% there are miscellaneous or unknown causes. 3  Ulcer pain may not correlate with the presence or severity of ulceration. A peptic ulcer of the stomach is called a gastric ulcer; of the duodenum, a duodenal ulcer; and of the esophagus, an esophageal ulcer. Peptic ulcers occur when the lining of these organs is corroded by the acidic digestive (peptic) juices which are secreted by the cells of the stomach.
In most cases, peptic ulcer disease caused by Helicobacter pylori infection or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs resolves once the infection is treated or the medication is discontinued. Helicobacter pylori infection can cause peptic ulcer disease, gastritis (inflammation of the stomach lining), and other complications (e.g., stomach [gastric] cancer).
Long-term use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as aspirin, ibuprofen, and naproxen, also can damage the lining of the GI tract and cause peptic ulcer disease. Helicobacter pylori infection can cause peptic ulcer disease, gastritis (inflammation of the stomach lining), and other complications (e.g., stomach [gastric] cancer).