An example of Medicare and Social Security being used as entitlement programs would be when someone is disabled and they can’t work. People in this situation are given access to Social Security funds, along with government medical insurance. Use of food stamps by people of insufficient means to buy food is an entitlement program. Foster care is one example of an entitlement program. Entitlement programs can help children get access to needed immunizations. Entitelment programs may help single parents ensure their children's basic needs are met.
Entitlement Programs of the federal government include Medicaid, Medicare, Social Security, Unemployment and Welfare Programs. Entitlement programs are rights granted to citizens and certain non-citizens by federal law. Entitlement programs can be broken into non-contributory and contributory programs. Non-contributory programs are free handouts-they equal something for nothing.
On Topic. According to projections from the Congressional Budget Office, the federal entitlement programs— Social Security, Medicaid and Medicare — represent nearly 45% of federal spending and cost as much as 10% of the GDP, which, if unchanged, will grow to 16% by 2035. 
The Issue. Spending on the three largest entitlement programs—Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid—already consumes 45 percent of the federal budget and, unless reformed, will devour more than half of the entire budget in just one decade. 1 In combination with other entitlements such as food stamps, unemployment, and housing assistance, Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security constitute more than half of total spending.
FYI, Social Security and Medicare are actually entitlement programs. Food stamps and Medicaid are not entitlement programs; they are means-tested programs. Entitlement programs provide benefits to individuals regardless of need, or in other words, everyone is entitled to them.). Use of food stamps by people of insufficient means to buy food is an entitlement program. Foster care is one example of an entitlement program. Entitlement programs can help children get access to needed immunizations. Entitelment programs may help single parents ensure their children's basic needs are met.
Originally, the term entitlement in the United States was used to identify federal programs that, like Social Security and Medicare, got the name because workers became entitled to their benefits by paying into the system. A right is itself an entitlement associated with a moral or social principle, such that an entitlement is a provision made in accordance with a legal framework of a society.
Full Definition of ENTITLEMENT. 1. a: the state or condition of being entitled: right b: a right to benefits specified especially by law or contract. 2. : a government program providing benefits to members of a specified group; also: funds supporting or distributed by such a program. 3
Examples of entitlement programs at the federal level in the United States include Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, most Veterans' Administration programs, federal employee and military retirement plans, unemployment compensation, food stamps, and agricultural price support programs. A right is itself an entitlement associated with a moral or social principle, such that an entitlement is a provision made in accordance with a legal framework of a society.
1 Spending on the three largest entitlement programs—Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid—already consumes 45 percent of the federal budget and, together with Obamacare, will devour more than half of the entire budget in just one decade without reform. 1 In combination with other entitlements such as food stamps, unemployment, and housing assistance, Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security constitute more than half of total spending.
An entitlement is a government program guaranteeing access to some benefit by members of a specific group and based on established rights or by legislation. The term may also reflect a pejorative connotation, as in a sense of entitlement. A right is itself an entitlement associated with a moral or social principle, such that an entitlement is a provision made in accordance with a legal framework of a society.