Meet the Author. Read More Show Less. Geronimo Stilton runs a newspaper, but his true passion is writing tales of adventure. Here in New Mouse City, the capital of Mouse Island, his books are all bestsellers! His stories are full of fun--tastier than Swiss cheese and tangier than extra-sharp cheddar. 
1. Geronimo is a Pseudonym. A little known fact about the Geronimo series is that while the author credit is Geronimo Stilton, which is the series' title character, Elsabetta Dami originally thought of the idea. Dami is an Italian author and the daughter of Italian publisher Piero Dami. 
Geronimo Stilton (TV series). Geronimo Stilton is a 2009 television series based on the books of the same name. It is produced by Atlantyca Ent. and MoonScoop Group. It first premiered on September 15, 2009 on Rai 2 in Italy. 
At my kids’ suggestion, I finally got around to reading my first Geronimo Stilton book, Geronimo Stilton, Secret Agent. It’s more or less what I expected—a sparse plot but visually interesting. Geronimo is the only character even slightly developed in the story. Romantic Attraction. It’s not a major theme, but Geronimo is obviously attracted to the beautiful and mysterious secret agent who is also the sister of his childhood friend. Geronimo has several fans based on his previous adventures, and he ends up with a date with one because he doesn’t know how to say no.
55 pages on this wiki. Geronimo Stilton or OOG (code name) is a mouse that appears in all of the books,he is the editor of  The Rodent's Gazette . 
Biography. Geronimo Stilton is the Editor in chief of the Rodent's Gazette, the most famous daily newspaper on Mouse Island, but his true passion is to write books, which become all bestsellers. The Lost Treasure of the Emerald Eye, Book 1. Geronimo Stilton is a mouse and the editor of the newspaper The Rodent's Gazette. Beginning his adventures, Geronimo's sister Thea invites him on a treasure hunt.
Elisabetta Dami (Milan, 1958) is an Italian children's fiction writer and author of books for children. Elisabetta Dami was born in 1958 in Milan, Italy. 
Biography. Thea Stilton, Geronimo Stilton's sister, is a minor character in the Thea Stilton books. She once went to Mouseford Academy, a highly prestigious school. She was a role model and a star student. She currently works for Geronimo Stilton's newspaper, the Rodent's Gazette, as a special correspondent. 
Geronimo Stilton is the publisher of The Rodent's Gazette, Mouse Island's most famouse newspaper. He is Rattus Emeritus of Mousomorphic Literature and Neo-Ratonic Comparative Philosophy. In his spare time, Mr. Stilton enjoys collecting antique cheese rinds, playing golf, and telling stories to his nephew Benjamin. 