diabetes insipidus-a rare form of diabetes resulting from a deficiency of vasopressin (the pituitary hormone that regulates the kidneys); characterized by the chronic excretion of large amounts of pale dilute urine which results in dehydration and extreme thirst. diabetes-a polygenic disease characterized by abnormally high glucose levels in the blood; any of several metabolic disorders marked by excessive urination and persistent thirst. nephrogenic diabetes insipidus-diabetes insipidus caused by a failure of the kidney to respond to normal levels of vasopressin.
: a disorder that is caused by insufficient secretion of vasopressin by the pituitary gland or by a failure of the kidneys to respond to circulating vasopressin and that is characterized by intense thirst and by the excretion of large amounts of urine—see central diabetes insipidus, nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. : a disorder of the pituitary gland characterized by intense thirst and by the excretion of large amounts of urine.
The disorder diabetes insipidus (DI) is characterized by the excretion of large amounts of dilute urine. DI can be of central (neurogenic) or renal (nephrogenic) origin. In central DI, excess urine is caused by insufficient amounts of antidiuretic hormone (ADH, also known as plasma vasopressin). Diabetes insipidus (DI) is a disorder that causes the patient to produce tremendous quantities of urine. The massively increased urine output is usually accompanied by intense thirst.
Diabetes insipidus. Diabetes insipidus is a condition characterized by excessive thirst and excretion of large amounts of severely diluted urine, with reduction of fluid intake having no effect on the concentration of the urine. There are several different types of DI, each with a different cause
There are two types of diabetes insipidus -- central and nephrogenic. Central diabetes insipidus is a lack of ADH production and is due to damage to the pituitary gland or hypothalamus where ADH is produced. Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus is lack of response of the kidney to the fluid-conserving action of ADH. Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus can be due to diseases of the kidney (such as polycystic kidney disease), certain drugs (such as lithium), and can also occur an inherited disorder
The disorder diabetes insipidus (DI) is characterized by the excretion of large amounts of dilute urine. DI can be of central (neurogenic) or renal (nephrogenic) origin. In central DI, excess urine is caused by insufficient amounts of antidiuretic hormone (ADH, also known as plasma vasopressin). Diabetes insipidus (DI) is a disorder that causes the patient to produce tremendous quantities of urine. The massively increased urine output is usually accompanied by intense thirst.
Definition of DIABETES INSIPIDUS. : a disorder of the pituitary gland characterized by intense thirst and by the excretion of large amounts of urine. ADVERTISEMENT. New Latin, literally, bland diabetes