Serology is the scientific study of serum and other bodily fluids. In practice, the term usually refers to the diagnostic identification of antibodies in the serum. In such cases, tests for antibodies will be consistently negative. There are several serology techniques that can be used depending on the antibodies being studied. These include: ELISA, agglutination, precipitation, complement-fixation, and fluorescent antibodies.
Such antibodies are typically formed in response to an infection (against a given microorganism), against other foreign proteins (in response, for example, to a mismatched blood transfusion), or to one's own proteins (in instances of autoimmune disease). In such cases, tests for antibodies will be consistently negative. There are several serology techniques that can be used depending on the antibodies being studied. These include: ELISA, agglutination, precipitation, complement-fixation, and fluorescent antibodies.
Antibody titer is a laboratory test that measures the level of antibodies in a blood sample. Normal values depend on the antibody being tested. If the test is being done to look for antibodies against your own body tissues, the normal value would be zero or negative. In some cases, a normal level is below a specific number.
A titer is a way of expressing concentration. Titer testing employs serial dilution to obtain approximate quantitative information from an analytical procedure that inherently only evaluates as positive or negative. Titers are sometimes expressed by the denominator only, for example 1:256 is written 256. The term has also two other, conflicting meanings. In titration, the titer is the ratio of actual to nominal concentration of a titrant, e.g. a titer of 0.5 would require 1/0.5 = 2 times more titrant than nominal.
A specific example is a viral titer, which is the lowest concentration of virus that still infects cells. To determine the titer, several dilutions are prepared, such as 10 −1, 10 −2, 10 −3, ... 10 −8. Titers are sometimes expressed by the denominator only, for example 1:256 is written 256. The term has also two other, conflicting meanings. In titration, the titer is the ratio of actual to nominal concentration of a titrant, e.g. a titer of 0.5 would require 1/0.5 = 2 times more titrant than nominal.
Currently, the term is used to refer to the use of such reactions to measure serum antibody titers in infectious disease (serologic tests), to the clinical correlations of the antibody titer (the serology of a disease), and to the use of serologic reactions to detect antigens (such as hla antigens). 
The antibody titer is a test that detects the presence and measures the amount of antibodies within a person’s blood. The amount and diversity of antibodies correlates to the strength of the body’s immune response. Vaccines are small amounts of microbes or antigens administered to stimulate the immune system to produce memory cells against a specific disease. Memory cells are so effective that a person’s immune system may fight off an infection before any symptoms can occur.
Antibody titer is a laboratory test that measures the level of antibodies in a blood sample. The antibody level in the blood tells your doctor whether or not you have been exposed to an antigen or something that the body thinks is foreign. The body uses antibodies to attack and remove foreign substances. The antibody titer is also used to determine: 1  The strength of an immune response to the body's own tissue in diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and other autoimmune disorders. 2  If you need a booster immunization. 3  Whether a previous vaccine helped your immune system protect you against the specific disease.
3 the highest dilution of a serum that causes clumping of bacteria or other visible reaction. Also spelled titre. Infectious disease Somewhat incorrectly, the term titer refers to the serum concentration of an antibiotic at which it is (bacteri)–cidal or static. See Serum bactericidal titer, Serum inhibitory titer. titer. the quantity of a substance required to react with or to correspond to a given amount of another substance. agglutination titer the highest dilution of a serum which causes clumping of microorganisms or other particulate antigens.
Pathogens have markers on them known as antigens, which antibodies find and bind to. The binding of antigens to antibodies sparks the immune response. This is a complex interaction of immune tissues and cells that work to defend against invading organisms and fight infection. Vaccines are small amounts of microbes or antigens administered to stimulate the immune system to produce memory cells against a specific disease. Memory cells are so effective that a person’s immune system may fight off an infection before any symptoms can occur.