Commercially prepared baked beans should keep for at least a week after opening, if stored in a refrigerator, in a sealed non-metallic container. I've frequently kept them for 10 days without any problems.
Seasoning cooked beans with salt can prolong their shelf life in the refrigerator to about one week. Salt acts as a natural preservative, making food last longer.
Commercially  prepared baked beans should keep for at least a week after opening,  if stored in a refrigerator, in a sealed non-metallic container.  I've frequently kept th … em for 10 days without any problems.
When you store beans in the refrigerator, they will only last 4 days, tops, before they start to get yucky -- you will only make the mistake ONCE of storing them too long in the fridge before eating them because they give off a MOST unpleasant aroma if they sit too long.
Vegkitchen.com reports that red beans will last in the refrigerator for up to a week, and in the freezer for up to 6 months. (Be careful if you have cooked with sausage … or another type of meat.
Cooked beans last three to five days in the refrigerator. To avoid unsafe bacteria, cover and refrigerate at or below 40 degrees Fahrenheit soon after cooking. You can also freeze them for up to eight months.
How to store your beans longer. by: Morgan. Seasoning cooked beans with salt, and making sure they stay completely under water when storing, can prolong their shelf life in the refrigerator to about a week, or 7-10 days I have found.
I don't keep beans in the fridge for more than a week, but really I try to eat them as quickly as possible, or freeze them. At some point I read from a reputable source that 3-5 days was the range for safe storage, with the explanation that cooked beans are pretty susceptible to microbial growth.
Save. Cooked beans last three to five days in the refrigerator. To avoid unsafe bacteria, cover and refrigerate at or below 40 degrees Fahrenheit soon after cooking. You can also freeze them for up to eight months.