Do career research and find in-depth salary data for specific jobs, employers, schools, and more. Explore Thousands of Jobs. Dive into the most extensive database of job salaries available. In addition, see detailed job descriptions and get information on job satisfaction, job demographics, common job skills and how pay varies over time and between locations. Browse all jobs ».
Average Cameroon Salaries. The average salary for cameroon jobs is $79,000. Average cameroon salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term cameroon anywhere in the job listing
Cost of Living in this country for some cities: Yaounde. About In the News Newsletter Blog API. Copyright © 2009-2015 Numbeo. 
Corporate Tax Rate in Cameroon. Corporate tax or company tax in Cameroon is the amount taken from the earnings of corporations. If you own a corporation in Cameroon, you can expect to pay 38.5% on average from your earnings. The specific rate you receive is dependent on a number of factors, such as the amount your company makes per annum. Anybody freelancing or contracting in Cameroon will probably have to handle their taxes this way. Because individual earnings can be so different, the income tax rates in Cameroon vary from 10 to 35 percent according to your level of income.
Located on the west coast of Central Africa, Cameroon covers an area of 475,400 square kilometers (183,695 square miles), slightly more than California. 1 One way to do that is to increase the amount of your income that the IRS can't get its claws into…. 2  What You Need to Know About Alabama's Income Tax Rate Alabama has a variable income tax rate of 2 percent, 4 percent and 5 percent based on your income slab.
Income Tax Rate in Cameroon. Income tax in Cameroon is charged to individuals, and depending on the company you’re working for you might have to calculate and submit returns yourself. Anybody freelancing or contracting in Cameroon will probably have to handle their taxes this way. Because individual earnings can be so different, the income tax rates in Cameroon vary from 10 to 35 percent according to your level of income.
GDP per capita in Cameroon averaged 895.79 USD from 1960 until 2014, reaching an all time high of 1356.13 USD in 1986 and a record low of 640.70 USD in 1967. The Gross Domestic Product per capita in Cameroon was last recorded at 1021.58 US dollars in 2014.
Assuming average family size of 6, you might assume that a typical family earns around $10k a year, but this would be … inaccurate. A typical job in the capital city might pay $100-200 a month, if you're lucky to work at all. Also, the income distribution is pretty unequal, though it's hard to find good data on that. I'd say that it's safe to say that a large proportion of Chadian households live on less that $5 dollars a day, and many less than $2. 1 One way to do that is to increase the amount of your income that the IRS can't get its claws into…. 2  What You Need to Know About Alabama's Income Tax Rate Alabama has a variable income tax rate of 2 percent, 4 percent and 5 percent based on your income slab.
GNI per capita, Atlas method (current US$). About GNI per capita (formerly GNP per capita) is the gross national income, converted to U.S. dollars using the World Bank Atlas method, divided by the midyear population. 