Moving On. As people moved and migrated, the cats did too, spreading throughout the world with human tribes. According to National Geographic, the earliest evidence of domestic cats is from Cypress, dating back 9,500 years. Save. When you watch your cat engage in every day behavior, whether it's jumping onto her cat tree, twitching her tail as she spots a bird out the window or dig around in her litter box, consider that she's the result of more than 10,000 years of evolution.
It has been about 4000 years since the first cats were domesticated. The Ancient Egyptians were the first to keep and use cats to control vermin and other pests to protect stores of food. In Ancient Egypt, the cat was revered as a hunter and worshiped as gods and goddesses. Except for a short period of persecution in the Middle Ages when cats were associated with the devil, by the eighteenth century cats had become popular household pets world wide. The wild cats of today such as Lions and Tigers descended from early carnivores called miacids.
The Origin of the Domestic Cat, Revealed by DNA. In the case of cats, we really have doubts on whether they are really domestic or just live with us under the same roof. But as any domestic animal, cats too come from a wild animal. But the wild species (Felis sylvestris) lives in Africa, Europe and half of Asia. 
Scientists have traced today's domestic cat's ancestors to the Fertile Crescent, the birth place of Middle Eastern and Mediterranean civilization. The wildcat that is the basis for your cat's development is still wandering the deserts of Middle Eastern countries, much as she did up to 100,000 years ago. Save. When you watch your cat engage in every day behavior, whether it's jumping onto her cat tree, twitching her tail as she spots a bird out the window or dig around in her litter box, consider that she's the result of more than 10,000 years of evolution.
The domestic cat is thought to have evolved from the African wild cat because of its tabby markings. Domestic cats today still take many characteristics from their wild ancestors. The arresting eyes, body shape, feeding and grooming habits are the same along with the ability to pounce into action at any given moment. Except for a short period of persecution in the Middle Ages when cats were associated with the devil, by the eighteenth century cats had become popular household pets world wide. The wild cats of today such as Lions and Tigers descended from early carnivores called miacids.
Best Answer: It has been about 4000 years since the first cats were domesticated. The Ancient Egyptians were the first to keep and use cats to control vermin and other pests to protect stores of food. In Ancient Egypt, the cat was revered as a hunter and worshiped as gods and goddesses. Other ancient civilisations later began to domesticate the cat and took tame felines to Italy where they slowly spread around Europe. Eventually, they arrived in the New World with the Pilgrims. The shorthaired domestic cat spread across the world from Egypt while longhaired cats came later from Turkey and Iran.
~ History of the Domestic Cat ~. Cats have always been a source of fascination for mankind throughout history. Today cats have become one of the world's most popular pets perfectly suited to the lifestyle of our day. They are beautiful, enigmatic and easy-to-care for pets. Except for a short period of persecution in the Middle Ages when cats were associated with the devil, by the eighteenth century cats had become popular household pets world wide. The wild cats of today such as Lions and Tigers descended from early carnivores called miacids.
Cats were domesticated from African wild cats (Felis silvestris lybica), which are native to North Africa and south-western Asia. It was thought cats were first domesticated in ancient Egypt about 4000 years ago to control mice, but a cat skeleton, recently found in association with a 9500-year-old human burial in Cyprus, suggests taming occurred much earlier in Asia. Georgina Hickey, Nature Australia magazine, Canberra. Purrsia.
The domestic cat (Felis catus or Felis silvestris catus) is a small, usually furry, domesticated, and carnivorous mammal. They are often called housecats when kept as indoor pets or simply cats when there is no need to distinguish them from other felids and felines. Cats are often valued by humans for companionship and their ability to hunt vermin. The English word ' cat ' (Old English catt) is in origin a loanword, introduced to many languages of Europe from Latin cattus and Byzantine Greek κάττα, including Portuguese and Spanish gato, French chat, German Katze, Lithuanian katė, and Old Church Slavonic kotka, among others.