The location of each common carotid artery division was noted with respect to the vertebral level. 2). The distance between site of bifurcation and origin of the common carotid artery was measured by using vernier calipers. Results: We included 110 bifurcations of both sides in this study. Common carotid artery division sites have not been studied in Thailand, so our aim was to inventory the site of bifurcation in Thai cadavers. Objective: To determine the site of bifurcation of the common carotid artery relative
carotid bifurcation. Definitions: 1. the division of the common carotid artery into internal and external carotid arteries; it occurs at the level of the superior border of the thyroid cartilages (vertebral level C4), The carotid body and sinus occur in relation to the carotid bifurcation. Synonyms: bifurcatio carotidis.
What is the vertebral level of the bifurcation of the common carotid artery? The bifurcation (splitting) of the common carotid artery is in line with/at the level of the intervertebral disc between the third and fourth cervical vertebral (between C3 an … d C4). In Human Anatomy and Physiology. The bifurcation (splitting) of the common carotid artery is in line with/at the level of the intervertebral disc between the third and fourth cervical vertebral (between C3 an … d C4).
On opening the sheath, each of these three structures is seen to have a separate fibrous cover. At approximately the level of the fourth cervical vertebra, the common carotid artery splits ( bifurcates  in literature) into an internal carotid artery (ICA) and an external carotid artery (ECA). In other cases the artery on the right side may arise as a separate branch from the arch of the aorta, or in conjunction with the left carotid. The left common carotid varies in its origin more than the right.
Though variations have been observed, the most common site for bifurcation relative to the vertebral level is at the 4 th cervical vertebra. Common carotid artery division sites have not been studied in Thailand, so our aim was to inventory the site of bifurcation in Thai cadavers. Objective: To determine the site of bifurcation of the common carotid artery relative to the vertebral level. Study design: A descriptive study. Setting: The study was carried out at the Department of Anatomy, Faculty of Medicine, Khon Kaen university, Thailand
STRUCTURE OF THE HUMAN BODY Vertebral Levels Landmarks and internal structures found at various vertebral levels. Vertebral Level Landmark Internal Significance C3 Hyoid bone • Bifurcation of common carotid artery. 
The right common carotid originates in the neck from the brachiocephalic trunk; the left from the aortic arch in the thorax. These split into the external and internal carotid arteries at the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, at around the level of the fourth cervical vertebra. In other cases the artery on the right side may arise as a separate branch from the arch of the aorta, or in conjunction with the left carotid. The left common carotid varies in its origin more than the right.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Stax de Morgan. Confidence votes 6.2K. The bifurcation (splitting) of the common carotid artery is in line with/at the level of the intervertebral disc between the third and fourth cervical vertebral (between C3 and C4). 
carotid bifurcation. the division of the common carotid artery into internal and external carotid arteries; it occurs at the level of the superior border of the thyroid cartilages (vertebral level C4), The carotid body and sinus occur in relation to the carotid bifurcation. Synonym(s): bifurcatio carotidis [TA].