Most adults in the United States consume about 22 teaspoons of added sugar a day, which is far more than is recommended by the medical community. The recommendations for sugar consumption are: A can of regular soda contains about 35 grams of added sugar, equivalent to 8.75 teaspoons, or 140 calories. Unfortunately, it’s less than the sugar in one candy bar or a can of soda. This doesn’t include all the natural sources of sugar from fruits, some vegetables, and even some whole grains. Many Americans consume close to a whopping 22 teaspoons a day.
A person who eats 2,000 calories per day should eat 6 ounces of grain foods daily. At least half (3 ounces) of the grain foods eaten should be whole grains. Approximately one ounce of grain foods counts as a serving. This is about one slice of bread, one roll, or one small muffin. 
Confidence votes 66. Sugar requirements There is no requirement for sugar, but there is a minimum requirement for total carbohydrate, which is 130 grams/day for male and female adults and children. Most people eat much more than the minimum requirement. The recommendations for sugar intake are controversial. 
The good news is that people are starting to recognize that sugar should be limited. 1  No more than 6 teaspoons, or 100 calories a day, of sugar for women. 2  No more than 9 teaspoons, or 150 calories a day, of sugar for men. Unfortunately, it’s less than the sugar in one candy bar or a can of soda. This doesn’t include all the natural sources of sugar from fruits, some vegetables, and even some whole grains. Many Americans consume close to a whopping 22 teaspoons a day.
The average American consumes 3 pounds of sugar a week and 130 pounds a year, reports Forbes.com. This is equal to about 3,550 pounds of sugar in a lifetime. The consumption of added sugar accounts for an intake of 500 calories per day, which can cause a weight gain of 1 pound per week. Women should limit sugar intake to no more than 6 teaspoons per day, which provides about 100 calories. Men should limit sugar intake to no more than 9 teaspoons, or about 150 calories. In contrast, the average adult consumes 22 teaspoons per day
They state that a healthy person should get no more than 6-10% of their total calories from sugar. That works out to between 40 and 55 grams per person eating a 2,000 calorie a day diet. If you're eating fewer calories, you should take in less sugar. If you're eating more calories, you can take in more sugar. Figure out exactly how much sugar you're allowed using the calculator below. 
The World Health Organisation suggests that adults should eat no more than 50 grams of sugar (12 teaspoons) per day to avoid the risks of obesity and tooth decay. The UN body even advises that limiting ourselves to 25 grams – or 5% of our daily energy intake – would provide “additional health benefits.”. That’s 2.8 grams of sugar per slice. If, for example, for breakfast you have two slices of white bread toast with chocolate spread, a 20cl glass of supermarket orange juice and a hot chocolate, you have already consumed around 63 grams of sugar, 13 grams more than what the WHO recommends for the entire day.
The American Heart Association recommends no more than 6 teaspoons of added sugar a day. That equals about a 100 calories worth of sugar. Unfortunately, it’s less than the sugar in one candy bar or a can of soda. This doesn’t include all the natural sources of sugar from fruits, some vegetables, and even some whole grains. Many Americans consume close to a whopping 22 teaspoons a day.
For example, the World Health Organization recommends keeping added sugar intake to 10% of total calories. For the average 2000 calorie-diet that's a maximum of 50 grams. The American Heart Association recommends 6 teaspoons of sugar for women and 9 for men (1 teaspoon of sugar has about 4g of sugar). The primary source of added sugars are soft drinks and other sugar-sweetened beverag