Experience sea kayaking adventures with Altamaha Coastal Tours in one of the most beautiful and remote areas in the South East. Located near St. Simon's Island and 45 minutes South of Savannah, the Altamaha River BioReserve is a world of wilderness and natural wonder. Bottle Nosed dolphins, manatee, otters, alligators, deer, mink, eagles, osprey, and thousands of sea-birds make this area a best kept secret. 
The Ride for the River criss-crosses the mighty Altamaha River and features scenery from Coastal Georgia that makes the ride one not to miss. Routes begin and end at Jaycee Fairgrounds on the Altamaha River in Jesup and offers your choice of 28, 42, 64 or 101 mile routes. The century route goes through Long, McIntosh, Glynn and Wayne Counties. This ride is a fundraiser for the Altamaha River Partnership, an organization representing the 11 counties that border the Altamaha River. Registration is $35 through November 8th; $40 after and day of ride. Pre-ride light breakfast and post-ride meal included in registration.
The canoeist travels 10.5 miles on the Altamaha River, taking the northern (left) channel, then negotiates narrow Rifle Cut 1.5 miles to Darien Creek for 1 mile. Then take the Darien River to the boat ramp for 0.7 mile. Lewis Island is a 2-mile detour on this trip by the way of Buzzard Creek. The park is 1 mile upstream on the Penholoway, and is reached with care from Gardi by traveling east on River Road roughly 5 miles, then left for 1 mile to Paradise Park. Paradise Park to Altamaha Park, 17.2 miles.
Just over 100 miles long, the Altamaha River is formed by the confluence of the Ocmulgee and Oconee Rivers just east of Lumber City. Critical habitat is found here for bald eagles, swallow-tailed kites and red-cockaded woodpeckers. The waterway is flush with wildlife, and not the first man-made dam. This ride is a fundraiser for the Altamaha River Partnership, an organization representing the 11 counties that border the Altamaha River. Registration is $35 through November 8th; $40 after and day of ride. Pre-ride light breakfast and post-ride meal included in registration.
Quick Facts about the River. · The Altamaha River, formed by the confluence of the Ocmulgee and Oconee Rivers, is the largest free-flowing river on the East Coast. · The river is 137 miles long and runs from central Georgia to the southeastern coast of the state. · The Altamaha was declared the 7th most endangered river in the United States in 2002 due to the loss of water flow that has resulted from reservoirs and power plants along the shoreline.
The Altamaha River /ˈɑːltəməhɑː/ is a major river in the U.S. state of Georgia. It flows generally eastward for 137 miles (220 km) from its origin at the confluence of the Oconee River and Ocmulgee River towards the Atlantic Ocean, where it empties into the ocean near Brunswick, Georgia. There are no dams directly on the Altamaha, though there are some on the Oconee and the Ocmulgee. The Altamaha River flows through a flood plain up to five miles (8 km) wide, consisting of some of the last remaining hardwood bottomlands and cypress swamps in the American South. As the river approaches the Atlantic Ocean, it becomes a broad estuary.
· 305(b)/303(d) Listings: In the Altamaha River Basin, there are approximately 35 rivers and streams listed on the 2012 integrated 305(b)/303(d) list as waters not supporting their designated uses. These impaired waters include roughly 523 miles of streams and tributaries in the Altamaha River Basin. · The Altamaha was declared the 7th most endangered river in the United States in 2002 due to the loss of water flow that has resulted from reservoirs and power plants along the shoreline.
The Altamaha River, formed by the confluence of the Ocmulgee and Oconee rivers near Lumber City and joined farther downstream by the Ohoopee River, flows more than 130 straight-line miles from its northernmost points to its entry into the Atlantic Ocean north of Brunswick. The Altamaha River flows through the legendary longleaf pine system of the Southeast's Coastal Plain. Once, 90 million acres of the towering Pinus palustris swept through the southern states. In 1865 one man alone, Robert Pell, had 4 million acres for sale, with the Altamaha at the epicenter of his holdings.
Including its tributaries, the Altamaha River's drainage basin is about 14,000 square miles (36,000 km 2) in size, qualifying it among the larger river basins of the US Atlantic coast. It is reportedly the third largest contributor of fresh water to the Atlantic Ocean from North America. The Altamaha River flows through a flood plain up to five miles (8 km) wide, consisting of some of the last remaining hardwood bottomlands and cypress swamps in the American South. As the river approaches the Atlantic Ocean, it becomes a broad estuary.