The natural balance in a contra asset account is a credit balance, as opposed to the natural debit balance in all other asset accounts. There is no reason for there to ever be a debit balance in a contra asset account; thus, a debit balance probably indicates an incorrect accounting entry. The purpose of a contra asset account is to store a reserve that reduces the balance in the paired account. By stating this information separately in a contra asset account, a user of financial information can see the extent to which a paired asset should be reduced.
contra asset account. An asset account which is expected to have a credit balance (which is contrary to the normal debit balance of an asset account). The contra asset account is related to another asset account. For example, the contra asset account Allowance for Doubtful Accounts is related to Accounts Receivable. The contra asset account Accumulated Depreciation is related to a constructed asset(s), and the contra asset account Accumulated Depletion is related to natural resources. The net of the asset and its related contra asset account is referred to as the asset's book value or carrying value
For example, the allowance for doubtful accounts is a contra asset account, and it is paired with the trade accounts receivable account. When combined, the two accounts show the net amount of cash expected to be received from outstanding accounts receivable. The purpose of a contra asset account is to store a reserve that reduces the balance in the paired account. By stating this information separately in a contra asset account, a user of financial information can see the extent to which a paired asset should be reduced.
A contra-liability account is less common than a contra-asset account. The most common example of a contra-liability account is the bond discount account reported on a company's balance sheet, which is used to offset the bond payable account of a company. By Investopedia AAA |. A: A contra-asset account is an asset account with a credit balance and reduces the total assets on a company's balance sheet, while a contra-liability account is a liability account with a debit balance that reduces the total liabilities on a company's balance sheet.
The Contra Liability Account. The contra liability account is less common than the contra asset account. An example of a contra liability account is the bond discount account, which offsets the bond payable account. The two accounts together yield the carrying value of the bond. A contra liability account is not classified as a liability, since it does not represent a future obligation.
As another example, the accumulated depreciation account is a contra asset account, and it is paired with the fixed assets account. When combined, the two accounts show the net book value of a company's fixed assets. The purpose of a contra asset account is to store a reserve that reduces the balance in the paired account. By stating this information separately in a contra asset account, a user of financial information can see the extent to which a paired asset should be reduced.
If the related account is an asset account, then a contra asset account is used to offset it with a credit balance. If the related account is a liability account, then a contra liability account is used to offset it with a debit balance. The Contra Asset Account. The most common contra account is the accumulated depreciation account, which offsets the fixed asset account. An example of a contra liability account is the bond discount account, which offsets the bond payable account. The two accounts together yield the carrying value of the bond. A contra liability account is not classified as a liability, since it does not represent a future obligation.
Accumulated Depreciation is a Contra Asset Account. The accumulated depreciation contra asset account records the depreciation to date of a fixed asset. The account is normally a credit balance and in use is offset against the fixed asset account which is normally a debit. The net balance of the two accounts shows the net book value of the fixed asset. In bookkeeping terms, a contra asset account refers to an account which is offset against an asset account. As an asset account is normally a debit balance, a contra asset account will normally be a credit balance. When the two balances are offset against each other they show the net balance of both accounts