John Hancock was President of the Continental Congress of the United States of America when he was the first person to sign the Declaration of Independence. We were just then declaring ourselves independent of British authority. John Adams and Thomas Jefferson signed the Declaration and later became president. --------- Please note, Washington did not sign the Declaration of Independence. The following men did.
No US president signed the Declaration. During the Revolution we were just a band of nascent states running away from the Brits to tire them out. John Hancock was Confederation President when he signed it, though. We were just then declaring ourselves independent of British authority. John Adams and Thomas Jefferson signed the Declaration and later became president. --------- Please note, Washington did not sign the Declaration of Independence. The following men did.
As president of the Congress, John Hancock was the first to sign this histori … c document. The absolute first signers were John Hancock and Charles Thomson, Secretary of the Convention and they were the only two who signed that first document. 
Two of the signers would become presidents of the United States—Thomas Jefferson, the author of the declaration, and John Adams. Two—John Adams and Benjamin Harrison—would be fathers of future presidents. Another, Elbridge Gerry, was the vice-president under James Madison. 
He was a member (along with Thomas Jefferson, Benjamin Franklin, Robert Livingston and Roger Sherman) chosen to draft the Declaration of Independence. He was the first President to attend Harvard University and the first to have a son become president. John Hancock (1737-1793) —John Hancock was the President of the Second Continental Congress when the Declaration of Independence was adopted. He, along with Samuel Adams, were the two most wanted men in the colonies by King George III. He served as a major general during the Revolutionary War.
John Adams (1735-1826) —John Adams was the first Vice-President of the United States and the second President. He was a member (along with Thomas Jefferson, Benjamin Franklin, Robert Livingston and Roger Sherman) chosen to draft the Declaration of Independence. John Witherspoon (1723-1794) —John Witherspoon was the only active clergyman among the signers of the Declaration of Independence. He was elected to the Continental Congress from 1776-1782, elected to the state legislature in New Jersey from 1783-1789 and was the president of the College of New Jersey from 1768-1792.
Thomas Jefferson, later to become the third President of the U.S.A., wrote most of the original draft of the Declaration of Independence. He was part of a committee of five me … n; Benjamin Franklin, John Adams, Robert Livingston and Roger Sherman were the other four members of the committee. In Founding Fathers. The two Declaration signers who became President were John Adams (2nd US President) and Thomas Jefferson (3rd US President). (The Benjamin Harrison (V) who signed the Declar … ation was the father of 9th President William Henry Harrison and the great-grandfather of 23rd President Benjamin Harrison.)
Shortly after she died in 1787, a grief stricken Stone died a few months later before making a trip to England. 3. The Declaration of Independence: About the Signers (Continued) Massachusetts John Adams (1735-1826) —John Adams was the first Vice-President of the United States and the second President. John Hancock (1737-1793) —John Hancock was the President of the Second Continental Congress when the Declaration of Independence was adopted. He, along with Samuel Adams, were the two most wanted men in the colonies by King George III. He served as a major general during the Revolutionary War.
Which two signers of the Declaration of Independence later became US presidents? The two Declaration signers who became President were John Adams (2nd US President) and Thomas Jefferson (3rd US President). (The Benjamin Harrison (V) who signed the Declar … ation was the father of 9th President William Henry Harrison and the great-grandfather of 23rd President Benjamin Harrison.). In Founding Fathers. The two Declaration signers who became President were John Adams (2nd US President) and Thomas Jefferson (3rd US President).