Plantar fasciitis most often occurs because of injuries that have happened over time. With treatment, you will have less pain within a few weeks. But it may take time for the pain to go away completely.
It usually takes about three to six weeks for the inflammation linked to plantar fasciitis to go down, but having a tear in the plantar fascia ligament or a growth in the foot may take anywhere from two to five months in recovery time.
In the early stages of plantar fasciitis, the pain may go away quickly once you take weight off the foot. Over time, however, it may take longer and longer for the pain to go away. Without treatment, the plantar fascia will eventually tear partially away from the heel. The body fills the torn area in with calcium.
Most people with plantar fasciitis have pain when they take their first steps after they get out of bed or sit for a long time. You may have less stiffness and pain after you take a few steps. But your foot may hurt more as the day goes on.
The plantar fascia is a ligament in the bottom of the foot that runs from the base of the heel to the toes. '-itis' in medical jargon means 'inflammation.' So plantar fasciitis is inflammation of the plantar fascia.
How long does it take for the heel pain to subside. This is a tough question to answer because for each person the healing time for foot problems can vary greatly. If you do nothing the symptoms of your plantar fasciitis may go away but in most cases the heel pain will persist. With our Plantar Fasciitis Kit you can expect pain reduction after a few days. The amount of heel pain relief will vary with each person depending on their activity level and commitment. When used consistently, our Plantar Fasciitis Kit will eliminate most or all of your heel pain in 2 to 3 weeks.
Plantar fasciitis most often occurs because of injuries that have happened over time. With treatment, you will have less pain within a few weeks. But it may take time for the pain to go away completely. It may take a few months to a year. Stay with your treatment.
Plantar fasciitis does not heal quickly, and on average it takes around 9 months after treatment for the pain to go away. Surgery is sometimes used for plantar fasciitis that doesn't respond to other treatment, but only if the pain continues for over a year.