July 4, 2011 10:22 AM Subscribe. Inflatable kids pool-best way to warm the water and keep it clean over a long weekend. posted by Joh to Home & Garden (8 answers total) 3 users marked this as a favorite. We got out the inflatable kids pool for the weekend. For a 100 gallon pool that you don't want to keep emptying, cleaning, and refilling, you will want a small portable filter. It's basically a pump that sits on the outside with flexible pipes that provide inflow and outflow.
Maintenance. It is easy to clean out smaller inflatable pools with a hose and some soap, but a large inflatable pool should come with some kind of filter system. Owners should check the filter regularly and remove any leaves or other debris blocking it. 
Above ground pool cleaning on liner.   What is the best way to remove algae stains from the pool liner? Empty the pool, use a soft brush, mild detergent and water … to remove algae stains from the pool liner. Thoroughly rinse and dry before refilling or storage. Answer   What is the best way to remove algae stains from the pool liner?    Empty the pool, use a soft brush, mild detergent and water to remove algae stai … ns from the pool liner. Thoroughly rinse and dry before refilling or storage.   http://www.air-inflatablepools.com.
1 For small, kiddie splash pools, drain the water before you begin cleaning. 2  Once drained, use a wet rag or towel to wipe around inside. 3  This will remove much of the algae growth that may be beginning. 4  Use a mixture of bleach and water (one part bleach to 5 parts water) to clean the interior. 
Learn how to properly store your inflatable pool with this easy-to-follow guide from Backyard Ocean. Step 1: Clean the Pool. Before draining your inflatable pool, make sure it is clear of dirt and other debris. Using a clean cloth or sponge with warm soapy water should be enough to prep your pool for storage. This isn’t a required step, but smearing your pool with a bleach solution can disinfect it even further. Step 2: Drain and Dry. Draining the pool is simple enough, but a complete and thorough approach is necessary. You want to completely dry out your pool as trapped water can cause mildew and mold growth over the winter. You can try hanging the pool bottom side up or draining it with a pump.
Even large pools with pumps build up algae and debris on the bottom and need to be vacuumed with the pump. I think you can by a small vacuum for the smaller pools but I'm not positive. For more in depth information I'd suggest calling your local pool supply store and talk to them. Report Abuse. Based on how you formed your question I'm assuming you are referring to a child's size pool. Kiddie pools as I like to call them and larger inflatable pools are impossible to keep clean with out some sort of pump and vacuum. You can easily skim the top with a pool net to get floating debris but that's about the most you can do. The only way to get the algae and other gunk off of the sides and bottom is to dump it and clean it. I know it is a waste but it's the only way
1 Drain out the water from the pool completely with the help of a pump. 2  If you do not have a pump, you may have to remove the water with your hands using a bucket, or pull up and tilt one side of the pool to dump the water out. 3  Besides, some people use tank plug to put a drain in the plastic container. 1 Make sure you clean the slippery sides properly as they are caused by biofilm-causing bacteria and algae. 2  Rinse the kiddie pool to remove the bleach. 3  You may consider sprinkling vitamin C powder (one teaspoon for 200 gallons) in the pool and swishing it around to neutralize chlorine. 4  Refill with water.
“That stuff is usually algae or a form of mold.”. “When your family comes into contact with dirty toys consistently, the bacteria can cause a cold or an earache,” Merritt adds. “The best way to clean your toys is with POOLIFE® Tile Cleaner Rx or a solution of bleach and water. Before you get started, make sure you’re wearing rubber gloves and protective eyewear, such as splash goggles. 
Steps for Cleaning. 1  Drain out the water from the pool completely with the help of a pump. 2  If you do not have a pump, you may have to remove the water with your hands using a bucket, or pull up and tilt one side of the pool to dump the water out. 3  Besides, some people use tank plug to put a drain in the plastic container. 1 Make sure you clean the slippery sides properly as they are caused by biofilm-causing bacteria and algae. 2  Rinse the kiddie pool to remove the bleach. 3  You may consider sprinkling vitamin C powder (one teaspoon for 200 gallons) in the pool and swishing it around to neutralize chlorine. 4  Refill with water.