Most admitted students had a high school GPA of 3.5 or higher, an SAT score of 1900 or higher, and an ACT composite score of 27 or higher. Higher test scores and grades obviously improve your chances of getting an acceptance letter. A little over a third of applicants to George Washington University get in. Nearly all successful applicants have grades and standardized test scores that are at significantly above average. In the graph above, the blue and green dots represent accepted students
Average GPA: 3.8. The average GPA at George Washington University is 3.8. This makes George Washington University Extremely Competitive for GPAs. (Most schools use a weighted GPA out of 4.0, though some report an unweighted GPA. This school did not officially report its average GPA, but we've estimated it here using data from over 1,000 schools.).
The average SAT score composite at George Washington University is a 1942. This score makes George Washington University Moderately Competitive for SAT test scores. The 25th percentile SAT score is 1800, and the 75th percentile SAT score is 2090. In other words, a 1800 places you below average, while a 2090 will move you up to above average. George Washington University GPA Requirements. Many schools specify a minimum GPA requirement, but this is often just the bare minimum to submit an application without immediately getting rejected. The GPA requirement that really matters is the GPA you need for a real chance of getting in.
Students can submit either the ACT or SAT scores to George Washington University. A score within the range of 1810 - 2090 on the SAT exam, or 27 - 31 on the ACT exam is among the 25th - 75th percentile range among admitted students. We were able to estimate the George Washington University (GWU) average GPA (3.55 - 3.78) of admitted students by applying sampled GPA data on over 150 schools. Applicant Selectivity: High. George Washington University has a very competitive selection process for applicants, where most students accepted have a higher than average high school GPA and scored in the top percentiles on standardized tests like the SAT or ACT exam.
Average ACT: 29. The average ACT score composite at George Washington University is a 29. The 25th percentile ACT score is 27, and the 75th percentile ACT score is 31. In other words, a 27 places you below average, while a 31 will move you up to above average. This makes George Washington University Extremely Competitive for GPAs. (Most schools use a weighted GPA out of 4.0, though some report an unweighted GPA. This school did not officially report its average GPA, but we've estimated it here using data from over 1,000 schools.).
The George Washington University, founded in 1821, is a private institution. At the undergraduate level, GW seeks to offer both a sound education in a liberal context and the foundation skills that prepare students for productive professional lives of continuous learning. 
With a GPA of 3.8, George Washington University requires you to be near the top of your class, and well above average. Your transcript should show mostly A's. Ideally, you will also have taken several AP or IB classes to show that you can handle academics at a college level. George Washington University GPA Requirements. Many schools specify a minimum GPA requirement, but this is often just the bare minimum to submit an application without immediately getting rejected. The GPA requirement that really matters is the GPA you need for a real chance of getting in.
Instructions. Go to the Mercer GPA Calculator. In most cases, your courses will use a Weighted Average Grading System or a Points-Based Grading System. In a weighted average system, every assignment is given a certain percentage of the overall course grade. For example, each test might be 15%, the final 25%, and homework 30% of the final grade.
For every 100 applicants, 34 are admitted. This means the school is very selective. If you meet George Washington University's requirements for GPA, SAT/ACT scores, and other components of the application, you have a great shot at getting in. George Washington University GPA Requirements. Many schools specify a minimum GPA requirement, but this is often just the bare minimum to submit an application without immediately getting rejected. The GPA requirement that really matters is the GPA you need for a real chance of