The meaning to me is the sun, which is the basis of all life on this rock, and the fact that it is black signifies struggle, what we all go through day to day.   The Sun Tattoo represents a special person in my life, with flames on the outside meaning pashion.   to me it represents a new begining. Sun tattoos were commonplace for Celtic druids who believed that the sun was the primary source of life, which of course scientifically it is, and the crescent moon has been an important symbol of an earth goddess and her powers for many different cultures.
As with all tattoos, sun and moon tattoos can be used for the beauty of body art. But many people are tattooed with this design because of the numerous meanings it holds. Sun and moon tattoos are known to represent a merging of opposites, unity, and cooperation instead of conflict, and rebirth. Research here and decide what colors are important to you and the meaning you desire. It is completely appropriate to design the moon and sun in the tear drop style of Yin Yang tattoos. Just use different colors and designs so that the different halves are apparent as sun and moon tattoos.
Meaning of Sun and Moon Tattoos. For people who want meaning in their sun and moon tattoos, you’ll find plenty available with these designs. Sun and moon tattoos are generally about the size of a flattened orange and in that circular shape. The circular shape alone is a symbol of the never ending circle of life. Research here and decide what colors are important to you and the meaning you desire. It is completely appropriate to design the moon and sun in the tear drop style of Yin Yang tattoos. Just use different colors and designs so that the different halves are apparent as sun and moon tattoos.
For those that are seeking a dark or gothic style tattoo, a moon can also fill that void. Moons are dark and mysterious and if you like vampire bite tattoos or fancy werewolves, a full moon may be a likely choice. Darkness aside, the moon is viewed as a female symbol and can also be associated with the Goddess Isis. If you appreciate fables and tales, you may find a full face man on the moon tattoo to be a whimsical choice. Because the design will be quite detailed you'll want to make sure you find the right artist for the job.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The star and moon tattoo may mean different things. In most cases, this is commonly used as a symbol of divinity or feminine power among others. 
The crescent moon is also a symbol associated with the Hindu's iconography: with the deity Shiva, who wears it at the top of his matted hair. The crescent is also used as a heraldic symbol. However, this usage is not affiliated in any way with Islam. The roots of the Slavic crescent can be traced to the old Slavic pagan beliefs. In English and Canadian heraldry a crescent is the cadence mark of a second son. Note that in the case of an astronomical crescent, such as the moon observed in the sky, the outer arc will be 180° (a half-circle as previously mentioned), while the Islamic crescent symbol (Arabic هلال hilāl) is generally shown with an outer arc significantly greater than 180° (as seen in the illustrations above).
Karma is a big circle telling us what goes around comes around. The moon is symbolic of the feminine power and fertility. Many goddesses in myth are associated with the moon this is to convey hidden power, secret wisdom and quiet influences. Men feel the energy of the moon too. There are some Native American tribes, Japanese, the Maori, African that give the moon a male gender. Always wanted to know what the meaning might be of the tattoo you already have? This blog on image symbolism will help you plan or expand on your next tattoo. Symbolic meaning and images have always been a part of our lives, signs and symbols are everywhere.
What do moon tattoos mean: Dreams, Intuition, Feminine Power, Divine Light, Shadow, Magic, Purity, Subtle Strength, Sensuality, Mysticism, Cycles/Time, Subtle Energy, Mystery, Influence, Eternity, Fertility. Al l of life is affected by the moons energies most especially night life. Always wanted to know what the meaning might be of the tattoo you already have? This blog on image symbolism will help you plan or expand on your next tattoo. Symbolic meaning and images have always been a part of our lives, signs and symbols are everywhere.
The crescent symbol is also used to represent the moon in astronomy and astrology, and to represent silver (the metal associated with the moon) in alchemy, where, by inference, it can also be used to represent qualities that silver possesses. Note that in the case of an astronomical crescent, such as the moon observed in the sky, the outer arc will be 180° (a half-circle as previously mentioned), while the Islamic crescent symbol (Arabic هلال hilāl) is generally shown with an outer arc significantly greater than 180° (as seen in the illustrations above).
Moon Tattoo Designs-One of the Twelve Symbols of Sovereignty (imperial authority), the moon is a symbol of heaven. The moon is representative of the passive principle (Yin) to the sun's active principle (Yang). The moon in heraldry is always borne as a crescent, usually with the cavity turned upward. 