Chemical bonding between atoms results in compounds that can be very different from the parent atoms. This module, the second in a series on chemical reactions, describes how atoms gain, lose, or share electrons to form ionic or covalent bonds. The module lists features of ionic and covalent compounds. The H 2 molecule is a good example of the first type of covalent bond, the nonpolar bond. Because both atoms in the H 2 molecule have an equal attraction (or affinity) for electrons, the bonding electrons are equally shared by the two atoms, and a nonpolar covalent bond is formed.
a chemical bond. The two extreme cases of chemical bonds are: Covalent bond: bond in which one or more pairs of electrons are shared by two atoms. Ionic bond: bond in which one or more electrons from one atom are removed and attached to another atom, resulting in positive and negative ions which attract each other. Other types of bonds include metallic bonds and hydrogen bonding
Main Types of Chemical Bonds. The two main types of bonds formed between atoms are ionic bonds and covalent bonds. An ionic bond is formed when one atom accepts or donates one or more of its valence electrons to another atom. A covalent bond is formed when atoms share valence electrons. The electrons that participate in chemical bonds are the valence electrons, which are the electrons found in an atom's outermost shell. When two atoms approach each other these outer electrons interact. Electrons repel each other, yet they are attracted to the protons within atoms.
Chemical bonds. Chemical bonds are the glue that hold molecules together. We will learn about the different kinds of bonds, ways chemists draw bonds and molecules, and how the type of chemical bonding affects the bulk properties of a material. 
attraction, attractive force-the force by which one object attracts another. covalent bond-a chemical bond that involves sharing a pair of electrons between atoms in a molecule. cross-link, cross-linkage-a side bond that links two adjacent chains of atoms in a complex molecule. electrostatic bond, electrovalent bond, ionic bond-a chemical bond in which one atom loses an electron to form a positive ion and the other atom gains an electron to form a negative ion.
Chemical Bonding. Chemical compounds are formed by the joining of two or more atoms. A stable compound occurs when the total energy of the combination has lower energy than the separated atoms. The bound state implies a net attractive force between the atoms ... The two extreme cases of chemical bonds are: Covalent bond: bond in which one or more pairs of electrons are shared by two atoms. Ionic bond: bond in which one or more electrons from one atom are removed and attached to another atom, resulting in positive and negative ions which attract each other.
A chemical bond is an attraction between atoms that allows the formation of chemical substances that contain two or more atoms. The bond is caused by the electrostatic force of attraction between opposite charges, either between electrons and nuclei, or as the result of a dipole attraction. A strong chemical bond is formed from the transfer or sharing of electrons between atomic centers and relies on the electrostatic attraction between the protons in nuclei and the electrons in the orbitals. The types of strong bond differ due to the difference in electronegativity of the constituent elements.
A chemical bond is formed when atoms are held together by attractive forces. This attraction occurs when electrons are shared between atoms, or when electrons are exchanged between the atoms that are involved in the bond. Definition 1: A chemical bond is the physical process that causes atoms and molecules to be attracted to each other and held together in more stable chemical compounds. The type of bond that is formed depends on the elements that are involved.
hydrogen bond-a chemical bond consisting of a hydrogen atom between two electronegative atoms (e.g., oxygen or nitrogen) with one side be a covalent bond and the other being an ionic bond. electrostatic bond, electrovalent bond, ionic bond-a chemical bond in which one atom loses an electron to form a positive ion and the other atom gains an electron to form a negative ion.
Covalent bonds form when two atoms have a very small (nearly insignificant) difference in electronegativity. The value of difference in electronegativity between two atoms in a covalent bond is less than 1.7. Covalent bonds often form between similar atoms, nonmetal to nonmetal or metal to metal. Covalent bonding signals a complete sharing of electrons. 