Jan. 30, 2006 -- Every year, about 8 million babies worldwide are born with gene-related birth defects, says a new report from the March of Dimes. That figure amounts to 6% of all global births in a given year, the report shows. There are more than 7,000 genetic or partially genetic birth defects. Five common types account for a quarter of the world's cases, says the March of Dimes: 1  Heart defects: More than a million births worldwide yearly. 2  Neural tube defects (including spina bifida): Nearly 324,000 births worldwide yearly. In the hardest-hit areas, 82 per thousand babies are born with a genetic birth defect, compared to a low of 39 per thousand births, the report shows. Those figures only count birth defects tied to genetics. Birth defects due to alcohol, drugs, or other substances aren't included.
Congenital disorder, also known as congenital disease, birth defect or anomaly, is a condition existing at or before birth regardless of cause. Of these diseases, those characterized by structural deformities are termed congenital anomalies and involve defects in a developing fetus. Birth defects vary widely in cause and symptoms. Any substance that causes birth defects is known as a teratogen. Birth defects are present in about 3% of newborns. Congenital anomalies resulted in about 632,000 deaths per year in 2013 down from 751,000 in 1990. The type with the greatest death are congenital heart disease (323,000), followed by neural tube defects (69,000).
Major birth defects are structural changes in one or more parts of the body. They are present at birth. They can have a serious, adverse effect on the health, development, or functional ability of the baby. 
Congenital heart defects are the most common type of birth defect. They affect 8 out of every 1,000 newborns. Each year, more than 35,000 babies in the United States are born with congenital heart defects. Many of these defects are simple conditions. They need no treatment or are easily fixed. 
In the United States. 1  About one in every 33 babies (about 3%) is born with a birth defect. [ Read article 2  ]. Birth defects are one of the leading causes of infant deaths, accounting for more than 20% of all infant deaths. Trisomy 18. 1 in 3,762. 1,109. *The national estimates data come from 14 birth defects surveillance programs: Arkansas, Arizona, California [8-county Central Valley], Colorado, Georgia [5-county metropolitan Atlanta], Illinois, Iowa, Kentucky, Massachusetts, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Puerto Rico, Texas, and Utah.
1 The most common severe congenital anomalies are heart defects, neural tube defects and Down syndrome. 2  Although congenital anomalies may be genetic, infectious, nutritional or environmental in origin, most often it is difficult to identify the exact causes. 3  Some congenital anomalies can be prevented. Congenital anomalies are also known as birth defects, congenital disorders or congenital malformations. Congenital anomalies can be defined as structural or functional anomalies (e.g. metabolic disorders) that occur during intrauterine life and can be identified prenatally, at birth or later in life.
1 About one in every 33 babies (about 3%) is born with a birth defect. [ Read article 2  ]. Birth defects are one of the leading causes of infant deaths, accounting for more than 20% of all infant deaths. Trisomy 18. 1 in 3,762. 1,109. *The national estimates data come from 14 birth defects surveillance programs: Arkansas, Arizona, California [8-county Central Valley], Colorado, Georgia [5-county metropolitan Atlanta], Illinois, Iowa, Kentucky, Massachusetts, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Puerto Rico, Texas, and Utah.
1 2 diseases that are common. 2  2 diseases that are uncommon. 3  1 disease that is rare. 4  7 diseases that are very rare. 5  389 diseases without any prevalence information. 6  The following drugs, medications, substances or toxins may possibly cause Birth defects as a side effect. The following causes of Birth defects are diseases or medical conditions that affect more than 10 million people in the USA: 1  Diabetes-birth defects. 2  Genetic defect. 3  Obesity. 4  Toxoplasmosis.
1 5 diseases that are very common. 2  2 diseases that are common. 3  2 diseases that are uncommon. 4  1 disease that is rare. 5  7 diseases that are very rare. 6  389 diseases without any prevalence information. 7  The following drugs, medications, substances or toxins may possibly cause Birth defects as a side effect. The following causes of Birth defects are diseases or medical conditions that affect more than 10 million people in the USA: 1  Diabetes-birth defects. 2  Genetic defect. 3  Obesity. 4  Toxoplasmosis.