Plunge the live or frozen crabs into the boiling water with your long-handled tongs. Add all the crabs to the water and make sure they are covered. Place the lid on the pot and boil the crabs for 20 minutes. Smaller crabs may cook faster, in just 8 to 10 minutes. The crab is done when the shells turn bright orange or red. Remove the crab carefully with your tongs. Place them on a soft kitchen cloth to soak up some of the cooking water
Cover pan and start timing. When water resumes boiling, reduce heat to a simmer. Cook 1 1/2- to 2 1/2-pound crabs 15 minutes, 3-pound crabs about 20 minutes. 3. Drain crabs; to be able to handle quickly, rinse briefly with cool water. How to clean, crack, and shell crab. 1. Pull off and discard triangular flap from belly side. 
Bring the water back to a boil and cook until the crabs start to float. Depending on the size of the crabs, this will happen in 10 to 15 minutes or so. Use tongs to remove the crabs and set them out until cool enough to handle. Put the crabs in a steamer basket or insert, or simply pile them into the pot and let the bottom crab or two boil slightly and act as a platform for the other crabs to steam. Cook 10 to 20 minutes, depending on the size of the crabs.
Bring the water back to the boil and only then start timing. You should cook large crabs (about 2lb) for around 15 - 20 minutes, whilst smaller crabs will only need around 8 - 10 minutes. Once the water has started to boil again, reduce the heat and simmer for the required time. The crab's shell should turn a bright orange when done. Steaming live crab In a large pot or steamer pour 1 cup of vinegar, 2 cups of beer or water and 2 tablespoons of salt, so that you have 3 - 4 inches of liquid. Bring the liquid to a rapid boil. As the liquid is heating up, place the live crabs into the freezer or into a large bowl of ice water for about 3 minutes.
1 While water is coming to a boil, in a deep sink rinse crabs in 2 or 3 changes of water. ( 2 Do not fill sink too full or crabs may crawl out.). 3  Add Zatarain's crab boil or 5 tablespoons Old Bay seasoning, cayenne, salt, lemons, and onions to boiling water and boil 5 minutes. 1 Return water to a boil. 2  Transfer about 6 crabs carefully with long tongs to sieve, holding them down in sieve with tongs, and turn crabs out into boiling water. 3  Add remaining crabs in same manner. 4  Return water to a boil and cook crabs until just cooked through, about 10 minutes.
You can simply throw the crabs in a pot of boiling water to cook them. Depending on the size of the crabs, it will take between 6 and 10 minutes for them to cook thoroughly. If the crab is alive when you start, the amount of cooking time has very little to do with safety  it s more a question of whether the meat is underdone, overdone, or cooked just right. 
Boil for about 18-20 minutes. Remove the crab from the pot and rinse under cool water to stop the cooking process and cool the shell for handling. Remove the abdomen with your fingers (also called the apron, it is the flap of shell on the underside of the crab). 
The water will drop below a boil when you put the crabs in, so cover and let it come back to a full boil. When it does, cook for 10-15 minutes. Photo Credit: Hank Shaw. The water will drop below a boil when you put the crabs in, so cover and let it come back to a full boil. When it does, cook for 10-15 minutes. When you see crabs floating on the surface, give it another 2-3 minutes.
1 Boil them until the shells turn red, for approximately 20 minutes counting time after the water comes back to a full boil. 2  They're done! 3  Now, you can cool the crab down by either laying them out on a clean dry towel, like I have illustrated with dungeness crab. Things You Will Need To Boil Crab. Before you know how to boil crab, there's a few things you should have handy... 1  A big pot, depending on how many crab you have to boil. 2  A pot, like the picture above, can hold 2 good size whole crab. 3  The picture below shows what I use when we catch a lot of crab.
Bring an inch of salt water to a boil in a large pot. Put the crabs in a steamer basket or insert, or simply pile them into the pot and let the bottom crab or two boil slightly and act as a platform for the other crabs to steam. Cook 10 to 20 minutes, depending on the size of the crabs. Remove the steamer or pull the crabs out of the pot with tongs. However you cook the crabs, let them sit until cool enough to handle before you clean and serve them