Aug. 29, 2006 -- Drinking pomegranate juice may help people with diabetes diabetes reduce their risk of heart disease heart disease. A preliminary new study shows that people with diabetes who drank pomegranate juice for three months had a lower risk of atherosclerosis -- or hardening of the arteries. In addition, the pomegranate juice appeared to slow the absorption of unhealthy LDL cholesterol LDL cholesterol by immune cells.
Many diabetics have to check their blood sugar levels several times a day. Drinking pomegranate juice to control sugar for diabetes may have excellent benefits. Take a look at this study that was conducted in Israel by Dr. Michael Aviram, a medical expert of the Technion Faculty of Medicine.
Fresh pomegranate juice may be helpful for people with diabetes to decrease their risk of coronary disease. An interesting new study shows that diabetes sufferers who drank pomegranate juice for a duration of three months had a reduced chance of atherosclerosis (or hardening of the arteries).
Drinking Pomegranate Juice as One of the Natural Cures for Diabetes. In one year, diabetes patients spend roughly 90 to 100 billion dollars on medications alone to control sugar levels. That number is absolutely staggering.
Scientists from the Jordan University of Science and Technology report that pomegranate juice at a dose of 1.5 mL per kg of body weight (or 105 mL for a 70 kg human) was associated with reductions in fasting glucose levels in type-2 diabetics.
Related tags: Pomegranate juice, Antioxidant, Blood sugar management, Type-2 diabetes. Daily consumption of pomegranate juice may help control blood sugar levels in type-2 diabetics, as well as improving the function of beta cells in the pancreas, say data from a human trial.
Pomegranates are also known to have a multitude of other health benefits. Pomegranate juice may be effective for lowering high cholesterol and helping in the treatment of heart disease, erectile dysfunction, atherosclerosis, chronic periodontitis, memory complaints, rheumatoid arthritis, and prostate cancer.
Although pomegranate juice contains a similar level of sugars as other fruit juices, Aviram says they were surprised to find that the sugars in pomegranate juice did not worsen diabetes markers, such as blood sugar levels, in the participants with diabetes.