Digestion of carbohydrates first begin in the mouth, then the stomach, and finally in the small intestines.
Digestion takes place whenever and wherever food comes into contact with digestive enzymes. Salivary glands at the base of the tongue secrete enzymes that begin the digestion of carbohydrates. Enzymes secreted by the lining of the stomach are involved in protein, fat and milk digestion.
Most carbohydrate digestion takes place in your small intestine. The carbohydrate-rich foods in your diet provide starches and a variety of sugars your body uses for energy.
Inside your small intestine is where the bulk of carbohydrate digestion occurs. A bicarbonate solution secreted from your pancreas buffers the acidic food mixture coming from your stomach, and the now-neutral environment of your small intestine allows several carbohydrate-digesting enzymes to get to work.
The small intestine is where most digestion takes place. A pyloric sphincter controls the rate of flow of chyme from the stomach into the small intestine. Most digestion occurs in the upper portion of the small intestine, called the duodenum.
Relatively little digestion takes place in your mouth, though, as food is typically in this part of your GI tract for only a short period of time. Even less carbohydrate digestion occurs in your stomach compared to your mouth, as the acidity of your gastric juices inhibits the activity of the amylase from your saliva.
Carbohydrates are your body's preferred energy source and are found in the forms of starch, sugar and fiber. Digestion begins in your mouth where the process of chewing mechanically breaks food into small pieces. Enzymes in the saliva initiate chemical digestion.
Most lipids that you consume in your diet are fats. Some digestion occurs in your mouth and the stomach, but most takes place in the small intestine. Bile is produced by your liver, stored and released in your gall bladder and emulsifies fat globules into smaller droplets.
Most lipid digestion takes place in the small intestine, but some gastric lipase is sectreted in the stomach and some lingual lipase is secreted in saliva and remains active in the low pH of the stomach. The most functionally important lipase is pancreatic lipase.