The abbreviation ibid. stands for the Latin word ibidem, which means “in the same place.” It is used in endnotes or footnotes when you cite the same source and page number(s) two or more times. If you cite the same source but a different page number, you can use ibid. Simply knowing what an abbreviation stands for and how to translate the underlying Latin words does not necessarily tell you how the abbreviation is used in actual modern practice. These little remnants of Latin have had a long and colorful life separated from their original language and context.
1 i.e. means that is, being the English translation of the latin id est. 2  e.g. means for example, being the English translation of the latin exempli gratia. 3  cf. 4  means compare with or consult, being short for confer. 5  et al. 1 et al. 2  means  and others , being the English translation of the latin et alia or et alii. 3  viz. (videlicet) means namely or that is to say. 4  q.v. (quod vide) means which to see and is written after term or phrase that should be looked up elsewhere in the current document.
CC Flickr User Alun Salt. The abbreviation SPQR means, in English, the Senate and the Roman people (or the Senate and the people of Rome), but what exactly those four letters (S, P, Q, and R) stand for -- in Latin -- is a little less clear. My take is that SPQR stands for the first letters of the following words with -que added as the third: That means it's the Roman people, but not the Roman senate. Many think the letters stand for Senatus PopulusQue Romanorum, which is what I thought until I realized that that would be redundant -- translating as it would as the senate and the people of the Roman people .
Many languages have words that derive from Latin. English especially has many words with Latin roots which usually helps relate to the meaning of the word. For example, the English word canine usually refers to animals such as dogs. The Latin word, canis, means dog. Welcome to the Latin Dictionary! Latin is a base language by which the Romance languages (including Spanish, Portuguese, French, Italian, and Romanian) are based from. However, the Latin language itself is not spoken by very many people; Latin is the official language only in the city-state, Vatican City.
The word is from Old French tribu, in turn from Latin tribus, referring to the original tripartite ethnic division of the Ancient Roman state: Ramnes (Ramnenses), Tities (Titienses), and Luceres, corresponding, according to Marcus Terentius Varro, to the Latins, Sabines, and Etruscans, respectively. Tribe is a contested term due to its roots in colonialism. The word has no shared referent, whether in political form, kinship relations or shared culture.
See also http://en.wikipedia.org/w iki/Lat... 1  i.e. means that is, being the English translation of the latin id est. 2  e.g. means for example, being the English translation of the latin exempli gratia. 3  cf. 4  means compare with or consult, being short for confer. 5  et al. 1 et al. 2  means  and others , being the English translation of the latin et alia or et alii. 3  viz. (videlicet) means namely or that is to say. 4  q.v. (quod vide) means which to see and is written after term or phrase that should be looked up elsewhere in the current document.
What Do I.e. and E.g. I.e. stands simply for that is, or, in Latin,  id est .. I.e. takes the place of the English phrases that is, in other words, namely, or that is.. E.g. means for example and comes from the Latin expression exempli gratia, for the sake of an example.. 
1 means  and others , being the English translation of the latin et alia or et alii. 2  viz. (videlicet) means namely or that is to say. 3  q.v. (quod vide) means which to see and is written after term or phrase that should be looked up elsewhere in the current document. 4  ibid. 1 et al. 2  means  and others , being the English translation of the latin et alia or et alii. 3  viz. (videlicet) means namely or that is to say. 4  q.v. (quod vide) means which to see and is written after term or phrase that should be looked up elsewhere in the current document.