Unlike academic degrees that prepare students to work in academia or research, professional doctoral degrees are designed to make you an expert in your field and in the workplace. In business, professional doctorate holders are often sought for positions in consulting, leadership, and upper management. Coworkers and management alike value the experience and knowledge you can gain in a professional doctoral degree program. In some executive, administrative, and clinical positions, a doctorate is considered a minimum requirement for hire.
A professional doctorate can take from 2-5 years full time and 3-8 years part time. The time taken depends on the area of study, commitment of the student and the length of the research project. The links below to individual award profiles give a rough guide to the minimum and maximum course lengths. Unlike a PhD, a professional doctorate is not a training for a career in academia. The effect on a future career will depend on the area of study. In an ESRC funded report by Professor Ingrid Lunt of the Institute of Education compared the EngD, the EdD and the DBA.
The Doctor of Professional Studies (or sometimes awarded as Doctorate in Professional Practice) (most commonly DProf, but also available as ProfD and DPS) is a doctorate degree for working professionals. 
7 3 6 0 5. Generally speaking, a doctorate is an advanced degree that qualifies recipients to work in a specific profession or to teach at the university level in the specific field of their degree. 
The one primary difference between PhD and professional doctorate programs is the intent and deliverable of the independent research phase. PhD students are expected to create, expand, and contribute to knowledge, research, and theory in their field of study in the form of a dissertation. Some people say that a PhD prepares you to teach, while a professional doctorate is geared more toward a professional career. But the answer to the question is more complex.
Deciding whether to pursue a PhD or professional doctorate is not an either/or decision. The differences between the two doctoral program types vary in every field—and they are also evolving. In terms of program phases at Capella, all doctoral programs require coursework and an independent research project. Some people say that a PhD prepares you to teach, while a professional doctorate is geared more toward a professional career. But the answer to the question is more complex.
College Degree Finder. A doctorate is a graduate level academic or professional degree. In the United States it is considered the highest degree an individual can earn in a given field of study, and as such, it is often referred to as a terminal degree. 
Common to all professional doctorates is the completion of an original piece of research. The research should then be presented as a thesis, and as with a traditional PhD, is examined by an expert in the chosen field. Usually the research project would relate to real life issues concerned with professional practice. Unlike a PhD, a professional doctorate is not a training for a career in academia. The effect on a future career will depend on the area of study. In an ESRC funded report by Professor Ingrid Lunt of the Institute of Education compared the EngD, the EdD and the DBA.
* In many instances, both a PhD and professional doctorate prepare students for teaching at the university level. Ultimately, deciding whether to pursue a PhD or professional doctorate in your field of study should start with discernment regarding your career goals and how you plan to apply your degree. Some people say that a PhD prepares you to teach, while a professional doctorate is geared more toward a professional career. But the answer to the question is more complex.
A doctorate (from Latin docere, to teach) or doctor's degree (from Latin doctor, teacher) or doctoral degree is an academic degree (Ph.D. or Ed.D.) awarded by universities that, in most countries, qualifies the holder to teach at the university level in the degree's field, or to work in a specific profession. The first professional doctorate to be offered in the United States was the M.D. at the College of Philadelphia (now the University of Pennsylvania) in 1765, with the first doctoral degrees conferred in 1771., nearly one hundred years before the first Ph.D. was awarded in the U.S. in 1861.