In the formal diplomatic sense, the status of persona non grata may be applied to a diplomat, or a member of the diplomatic staff who break the rules of the country in which s/he is visiting. Generally, a diplomat has diplomatic immunity from the laws of the country.
Persona non grata means an unwelcome person. This term is mostly used in diplomacy. The term means a person who is unacceptable to the government to which the person is sent. This situation arises when two countries are at war or have severe difference of opinion.
For the 2003 documentary film, see Persona Non Grata (film) . In diplomacy, the term persona non grata (Latin, plural: personae non gratae), literally meaning an unwelcome person, refers to a foreign person whose entering or remaining in a particular country is prohibited by that country's government.
Persona non grata (Latin, plural: personae non gratae), literally meaning an unwelcome person, is a legal term used in diplomacy that indicates a proscription against a foreign person entering or remaining in the country.
› specialized politics a ​person who is not ​wanted or ​welcome in a ​particular ​country, because they are ​unacceptable to ​its ​government: He was ​declared ​persona ​non grata and ​asked to ​leave the ​country within 48 ​hours.
noun. Persona non grata is a person that is in disfavor, who isn't welcomed or whose presence is not desired. 1  An example of persona non grata is the black sheep of the family who has been told never to come back to Thanksgiving dinner.
n. pl. per·so·nae non gra·tae (-nē; -tē). A person who is unacceptable or unwelcome, especially to a foreign government: The leaked memo made the ambassador a persona non grata. The foreign minister declared the envoy to be
The noun PERSONA NON GRATA has 2 senses: 1. a diplomat who is unacceptable to the government to which he is sent. 2. a person who for some reason is not wanted or welcome. Familiarity information: PERSONA NON GRATA used as a noun is rare.
Persona non grata. In diplomacy, the term persona non grata, literally meaning an unwelcome person, refers to a foreign person whose entering or remaining in a particular country is prohibited by that country's government.