Rome (Italy), capital city of Italy and of Latium Region and Rome Province, on the Tiber River, in the central part of the country near the Tyrrhenian Sea. Rome is a central point in Italy's railroad system and also is connected by highway with many parts of the country. Leonardo da Vinci International Airport, situated near the seacoast, is one of the busiest in Europe.
The Lazio region of Italy, the area aound Rome including a long stretch of Italian coastline, is a very interesting region. Rich in Archaeology, the region is also known for its papal palaces, forests, gardens, and wine. 
Rome is in the Lazio region of central Italy on the Tiber river (Italian: Tevere). The original settlement developed on hills that faced onto a ford beside the Tiber Island, the only natural ford of the river in this area. Rome is the national capital of Italy and is the seat of the Italian Government. The official residences of the President of the Italian Republic and the Italian Prime Minister, the seats of both houses of the Italian Parliament and that of the Italian Constitutional Court are located in the historic centre.
Cities: Rome, capital of Italy, as well of the region. Other important cities are Frosinone, Latina, Viterbo and Rieti. Art: Latium is the cradle of Roman civilization and it is incredibly rich in outstanding relics of the different periods. 
Everyone knows or heard of Rome Italy, the Roman Empire, Julis Caesar, the Pope, Vatican or the works of Arts of Michelangelo in the Sistine Chapel. Not many people know that Italy is made out of twenty regions and that the Italian Region of Rome is Lazio. Contact lenses for less right to your door. The REGION of LATIUM Today: the reasons of coming to the Lazio Region, an immense Region of Rome made out of hundreds of realities. Lazio is the home region of the Italian capital, Rome. Actually with its heritage of culture, history and nature, Lazio satisfies all tourist’s needs, turning a vacation into an unforgettable event. With the exception of Rome, the region's economy has been unchanged in the last decades
This is the map of the Rome's region, called Lazio in Italian, and Latium in Latin. It borders with several other Italian regions: Tuscany and Umbria (North), Abruzzi (East), Molise and Campania (South). Every year more than 6 million tourists visit Rome, which also has 700,000 non Italian residents, while there are only 3 million local inhabitants. Rome is the capital of the region, and of course of Italy. With its 3,000 years of historical legacy in any field, especially in architecture, works of art, it is Italy's capital also of the travel, tourist and lodging industry
Rome is the capital of Italy and of the Lazio region. With 2.9 million residents in 1,285 km 2 (496.1 sq mi), it is also the country's largest and most populated comune and fourth-most populous city in the European Union by population within city limits. Rome is the national capital of Italy and is the seat of the Italian Government. The official residences of the President of the Italian Republic and the Italian Prime Minister, the seats of both houses of the Italian Parliament and that of the Italian Constitutional Court are located in the historic centre.
Originally the city of Rome had been divided by Augustus into 14 regions in 7 BC. Then sometime during the 4th century, Christian authorities instituted seven ecclesiastical regions, which ran parallel to the civil regions. After its amalgamation with the region of Trastevere, Rome did not get a fourteenth region until 1586 when Sixtus V added the old Leonine City, considered until then outside the city, as a new administrative division, under the name of Borgo.