It has a very high density and melting point. Uses. Iridium is the most corrosion-resistant material known. It is used in special alloys and forms an alloy with osmium, which is used for pen tips and compass bearings. It was used in making the standard metre bar, which is an alloy of 90% platinum and 10% iridium. 
Iridium and osmium were identified in the black residue remaining after dissolving platinum ore with aqua regia, a mixture of 25% nitric acid (HNO 3) and 75% hydrochloric acid (HCl). Today, iridium is still obtained from platinum ores and as a by-product of mining nickel. Pure iridium is very brittle and is nearly impossible to machine. It is primarily used as a hardening agent for platinum. Platinum-iridium alloys are used to make crucibles and other high temperature equipment. Iridium is also alloyed with osmium to make the tips of fountain pens and compass bearings. Iridium is the most corrosive resistant metal known
Iridium is a very hard, usually brittle, extremely corrosion-resistant silver-white metal with a face-centered cubic crystalline structure. It falls between platinum and osmiu … m in Group 9 of the periodic table. It is not certain whether osmium or iridium is the most dense element. 1 The Element Iridium in Chemistry The element iridium is a platinum group metal that is a very durable, hard, and lustrous metal and is similar to platinum.
1 The Element Iridium in Chemistry The element iridium is a platinum group metal that is a very durable, hard, and lustrous metal and is similar to platinum. 2  It is well known for being the most corrosive and r…. Share to: 1 
Iridium is a stable metal that chemically unreactive, like platinum and gold. Iridium is the most resistant to oxidation of all metals. It can be used is as a hardening agent in alloys with Platinum and Osmium. Sometimes used in medical therapies e.g. treating prostate cancer by radiation therapy. Used for crucibles, special containers and other apparatus resistant to intense heat. Share to: 1  The Element Iridium in Chemistry The element iridium is a platinum group metal that is a very durable, hard, and lustrous metal and is similar to platinum.
Iridium (symbol Ir, atomic number 77) is a chemical element and a slivery-white, brittle, and very hard transition metal. It is the most corrosion-resistant metal, and the second-densest element, belonging to the platinum family. 
Iridium is white, similar to platinum, but with a slight yellowish cast. It is very hard and brittle, making it very hard to machine, form, or work. It is the most corrosion resistant metal known, and was used in making the standard metre bar of Paris, which is a 90% platinum-10% iridium alloy. 
A very hard, brittle, silvery-white transition metal of the platinum group, iridium is generally credited with being the second densest element (after osmium) based on measured density, although calculations involving the space lattices of the elements show that iridium is denser. Iridium is one of the rarest elements in Earth's crust, with annual production and consumption of only three tonnes. 191 Ir and 193 Ir are the only two naturally occurring isotopes of iridium, as well as the only stable isotopes; the latter is the more abundant of the two.
The discovery of iridium is intertwined with that of platinum and the other metals of the platinum group. Native platinum used by ancient Ethiopians and by South American cultures always contained a small amount of the other platinum group metals, including iridium. Iridium is one of the rarest elements in Earth's crust, with annual production and consumption of only three tonnes. 191 Ir and 193 Ir are the only two naturally occurring isotopes of iridium, as well as the only stable isotopes; the latter is the more abundant of the two.
Iridium is very hard and brittle and hardens other metals it is alloyed with, especially platinum. These alloys are used in spark plugs, electrical contacts, and high temperature crucibles. Biological Rating: No known benefits for life processes in plants or animals. Obtained From: Iridium is found in its pure native form and in osmiridium, a natural alloy of iridium and osmium. Iridium is mined from sulfide layers in mafic igneous rocks where it is present with other platinum-group elements.