Thrombocytopenia is a medical term that is used to describe low platelet count. A low platelet count could be as a result of various factors. The patient could have a medical disorder that affects the immune system, leukemia or it could also be brought about by certain medications. Usually, a blood count is conducted to determine the patient’s platelet count. In normal circumstances, a normal blood count would reveal between 150,000 and 450,000 platelets for every micro liter of blood. This would mean that a low platelet count would constitute less than 150,000 platelets.
Thrombocytopenia and thrombopenia refer to a disorder in which there is a relative decrease of thrombocytes, commonly known as platelets, present in the blood. A normal human platelet count ranges from 150,000 to 450,000 platelets per microliter of blood. 
Platelets play an important role in clotting and bleeding. Platelets are made in the bone marrow similar to other cells in the blood. Platelets originate from megakaryocytes which are large cells found in the bone marrow. The fragments of these megakaryocytes are platelets that are released into the blood stream. A low platelet count in severe cases may result in spontaneous bleeding or may cause delay in the normal process of clotting. In mild thrombocytopenia, there may be no adverse effects in the clotting or bleeding pathways. Picture of platelets and a blood clot.
Thrombocytopenia is a blood disease characterized by an abnormally low number of platelets in the bloodstream. The normal amount of platelets is usually between 150,000 and 450,000 cells per microliter of blood. A microliter is an amount equal to one one-millionth of a liter (a liter is almost equal to a quart). Thrombocytopenia is diagnosed by having a blood sample taken and counting the platelets present in the sample. However, accurately determining the medical reason for this conditions is complex. Once a low platelet count is verified, a careful evaluation of the function of the bone marrow and spleen are necessary.
The number of platelets in the blood is referred to as the platelet count and is normally between 150,000 to 400,000 per micro liter (one millionth of a liter) of blood. Platelet counts less than 150,000 are termed thrombocytopenia. A platelet count greater than 400,000 is called thrombocytosis. A low platelet count in severe cases may result in spontaneous bleeding or may cause delay in the normal process of clotting. In mild thrombocytopenia, there may be no adverse effects in the clotting or bleeding pathways. Picture of platelets and a blood clot.
Thrombocytopenia is a condition in which you have a low blood platelet count. Platelets (thrombocytes) are colorless blood cells that help blood clot. Platelets stop bleeding by clumping and forming plugs in blood vessel injuries. Thrombocytopenia often occurs as a result of a separate disorder, such as leukemia or an immune system problem.
• THROMBOCYTOPENIA (noun). The noun THROMBOCYTOPENIA has 1 sense: 1. a blood disease characterized by an abnormally small number of platelets in the blood. Familiarity information: THROMBOCYTOPENIA used as a noun is very rare. Meaning: A blood disease characterized by an abnormally small number of platelets in the blood. Classified under: Nouns denoting stable states of affairs. Synonyms: thrombocytopenia; thrombopenia. Hypernyms (thrombocytopenia is a kind of...): blood disease; blood disorder (a disease or disorder of the blood)
Thrombocytopenia may be mild and cause few signs or symptoms. In rare cases, the number of platelets may be so low that dangerous internal bleeding occurs. Treatment options are available. 1  Symptoms. Platelets (thrombocytes) are colorless blood cells that help blood clot. Platelets stop bleeding by clumping and forming plugs in blood vessel injuries. Thrombocytopenia often occurs as a result of a separate disorder, such as leukemia or an immune system problem.
Thrombocytopenia (THROM-bo-si-to-PE-ne-ah) is a condition in which your blood has a lower than normal number of blood cell fragments called platelets (PLATE-lets). Platelets are made in your bone marrow along with other kinds of blood cells. Many factors can cause a low platelet count, such as: 1  The body's bone marrow doesn't make enough platelets. 2  The bone marrow makes enough platelets, but the body destroys them or uses them up. 3  The spleen holds on to too many