No refund for changes will be available should the fare be lower at the time of change. Name changes are allowed subject to a change fee per flight plus any fare difference at the time of change. This is only available via the Call Centres at least (4) hours before the scheduled departure time. 
Should you no longer wish to travel you can apply for a refund of the Government Passenger Services Tax and other government taxes paid. However, Tigerair will apply a refund administration fee (or local equivalent) per passenger per sector to cover the cost of processing and bank charges for each tax refund request. 
However, Tiger Airways will apply a S$50.00 or A$50.00 (or local equivalent) administration charge per passenger per sector to cover the cost of processing and bank charges for each tax refund request. That would be the understatement of the decade. Tiger airways and customer service exist in 2 parallel universes. Good luck with getting your money back form these thieves, I wish you well, but TBH, I wouldn't bet on getting anything back at all.
I was under that impression of no refund if you get the cheapest fare as even regional airline like skywest has a no refund policy hence I suggested the OP to go read tiger's terms and condition. Qantas does refund but as account credit though afaik for the cheapest red-E deal. That would be the understatement of the decade. Tiger airways and customer service exist in 2 parallel universes. Good luck with getting your money back form these thieves, I wish you well, but TBH, I wouldn't bet on getting anything back at all.
Refund requests for paper tickets may be submitted on this website, however you will be required to mail in your original coupons to American Airlines at the address below before your request can be processed. On an email receipt, the airline code and ticket number is located in the middle of the page. If you have an AAdvantage Award ticket, do not use this form for refunds. To reinstate mileage from AAdvantage Award tickets, please visit the AAdvantage section of AA.com or call 1-800-882-8880.
You must apply for a refund on ba.com as refunds cannot be processed at the airport or on board. We will only make a refund to the credit card used to pay for the seat reservation, unless otherwise stated. Seat reservation refund form. Full terms and condition for paid seating. We will look to seat your group together in the first instance, and then your choice of window, middle or aisle seat, if possible. If you have paid for an exit row seat we will look to seat you in another exit row seat. If we are unable to offer you a suitable alternative seat, you may apply for a refund. Contact us.
Tiger Airways operates a no-refund policy which means that we will not be able to refund any tickets (fares and charges) should the passenger decide that they are unable to fly due to personal circumstances, including but not limited to medical grounds. That would be the understatement of the decade. Tiger airways and customer service exist in 2 parallel universes. Good luck with getting your money back form these thieves, I wish you well, but TBH, I wouldn't bet on getting anything back at all.
Request a Refund for an Upcoming Trip. Request a Refund for Unused Tickets or Other Trip Purchases. Check My Refund Status. All refund requests are subject to the rules of ticketed fare, and fees or penalties may apply to your refund. Your itinerary will be CANCELLED at the time the refund is processed. Delta will issue refunds for eligible tickets within seven business days for credit/debit card purchases. The refund may take up to two billing cycles before it is reflected on your credit/debit card statement.
Changing your seat. You may change your seat at any time, and pay the difference in price when applicable. If you change your seat to one of a lower price, we will not refund the difference. If you change the route of your flight after reserving a seat you must contact us to reassign your seat. We will look to seat your group together in the first instance, and then your choice of window, middle or aisle seat, if possible. If you have paid for an exit row seat we will look to seat you in another exit row seat. If we are unable to offer you a suitable alternative seat, you may apply for a refund. Contact us.
Tiger Airways is out of action until at least August 1, but if you hold a Tiger ticket for a point after that date, you might well be thinking “I wish I could cancel that ticket and fly with someone a tad more reliable”. Thanks to some stern words to Tiger from the ACCC, that’s now possible for August flights. If you have a flight booked with Tiger in August, you can now cancel it and receive either a full refund or a credit note (our advice: go for the refund). The only condition is if Tiger is reauthorised to fly by CASA, you’ll have to ask for a refund within seven days of that date