Introduction. Arches and lintels are found wherever it is necessary to support a wall etc over an opening which is usually not more than about two metres wide. They provide support in completely different ways and an understanding of this is fundamental to selecting, specifying and assessing them. Lintels are much simpler than arches, and the forces involved are completely within the lintel. They provide support by resisting the bending moments and shear forces resulting from the loads that are applied to them.
1 2. LINTELS • Introduction • Classification of lintels ARCHES • Arches: Terms to be used • Stability of an arch • Classification of an arches 2. 2  3. Lintels  Introduction  Classification of lintels 3. 3  4. Introduction  A lintel is defined as a horizontal structural member which is placed across the opening. 4. 4  5. 5. 5  6. 1 15)Spandril:-This is the triangular walling enclosed by the extrados of the arch, a horizontal line from the crown of the arch and perpendicular line from the springing of the outer curves. 23. 2  24.   3  EVERY ELEMENT OF ARCH REMAINS IN COMPRESSION. 4  An arches fail due to:1)Crushing of the masonry.
Structural calculations are supplied with your arch lintels allowing full compliance with current Building Regulations. Prior to your order drawings for each arch style or span, are issued for the approval of your design engineers and advisors. The fully bonded structural brick arch system with hidden stainless steel lintels provide the most robust structural support while meeting all the requirements of Building Control.
Openings in interior and exterior bearing walls require lintels or arches. Arches and lintels are both common on exterior masonry walls. Lintels are almost exclusively used in interior wood walls and exterior wood frame walls with siding. In a masonry wall, the arch or lintel carries the weight of the masonry immediately above the opening. However, if you draw two lines up toward each other from the top corners of the opening at 45 angles, you'll end up with a triangle.
Introduction. Arches and lintels are found wherever it is necessary to support a wall etc. over an opening which is usually not more than about two metres wide. They provide support in completely different ways and an understanding of this is fundamental to selecting, specifying and assessing them. 
We at AmeriSteel (an AHI Supply Company) make Arched Steel Lintels for windows, entries, doors and walls. Our Arch Lintels can be customized to any size or shape you need and help prevent hazardous brick cracks. Steel Arch Lintels are sturdy, economical and available with primer coating or galvanized. Lintels are commonly used above doors and windows to support the immediate wall surfaces above them. When properly installing a brink arch, one should always use an Arched Lintel
Arches and lintels are found wherever it is necessary to support a wall etc over an opening which is usually not more than about two metres wide. Lintels are much simpler than arches, and the forces involved are completely within the lintel. They provide support by resisting the bending moments and shear forces resulting from the loads that are applied to them.
Cast Stone or architectural precast Lintels & Arches are a highly refined architectural building “stone”, used as a masonry product to provide architectural trim, ornamentation or functional features on buildings and other structures. 
Arches and lintels in masonry walls have a different set of loads than in wood frame walls. In a masonry wall, the arch or lintel carries the weight of the masonry immediately above the opening. However, if you draw two lines up toward each other from the top corners of the opening at 45 angles, you'll end up with a triangle.
Special Lintels. We are committed to delivering a versatile range of exciting shapes for unique designs and feature brickwork. Various styles of bay window, Gothic and apex arches, corner feature lintels are available for both domestic and commercial use. All our Special lintels are hand welded and post galvanised for extra corrosion protection, assuring lasting quality. 