Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: I love the television show mythbusters... Jamie and Adam decide to benchmark the conventional methods of cooling a beer (e.g. cooler with ice, fridge, freezer, et. al.) to see how long they take to cool to about 35-40F. They also place some beer in the freezer and some in the refrigerator; they plan to test every five minutes to see if it's at drinkable temperature. Meanwhile, they place a six-pack in a bucket and spray it with a fire extinguisher. After three minutes, the beer is at the ideal temperature
So you pull out a beer that's been in the fridge for probably long enough, but it's not quite cold yet. Still got a ways to go. An important note from beer writer Jon Katz: You don't actually always want your beer to be ice-cold; hops lose their fruity flavor and come off as bitter pricklers when they are cold. That's why a lot of times people who try IPAs when freezing cold are turned off to them..
Cool a Beer in 3 Minutes. Written by: Neil Harner in Fun with Beer, June/July 2010 June 1, 2010 0 14078 Views. Supposedly in the South, this is the oldest trick in the book. Let’s say you have some buddies over and you run out of cold beers in the fridge. But, at the same time I’m not about to drink a warm beer either. Popping the beer in the fridge will take an hour to cool down. Even just sticking the beer in the freezer would take a good 20 minutes or so. This is just way too slow on a hot summer day.
The beer in the freezer had lost 15 degrees. It was losing heat faster than the freezer bottle had, but the ice-water bath was having an even more extreme effect on the metal can than it had on the glass bottle. In ten minutes, the cans of beer in ice-water had gone from warm to cold, from bad to good. I put them back for another 10 minutes of cooling. A second ten minutes really proved the case for an ice water bath. I prepared a cold bath. For the ice bath beer, I used three cups of tap water (24 oz) and ten ice cubes. I cleared out a little spot in the freezer and was ready for the test to begin. With superhuman agility, I dropped one bottle into the ice water and stood one up in our freezer.
I've found a good way to cool down a beer, and it's actually kind of a combination of both methods you showed up top. Just grab some wet paper towels, wrap them around your beer, and pop them in the freezer for about 15-20 minutes. It should be cold when you take it out. I prepared a cold bath. For the ice bath beer, I used three cups of tap water (24 oz) and ten ice cubes. I cleared out a little spot in the freezer and was ready for the test to begin. With superhuman agility, I dropped one bottle into the ice water and stood one up in our freezer.
Now, if you’re anything like me, running out of cold beer in the fridge probably means you shouldn’t be driving. But, at the same time I’m not about to drink a warm beer either. Popping the beer in the fridge will take an hour to cool down. Even just sticking the beer in the freezer would take a good 20 minutes or so. This is just way too slow on a hot summer day. So, here’s how you can cool down a six pack in 3 minutes to the perfect drinkable temperature
How to Chill a Beer in 5 Minutes or Less. Learn how to chill beers in a crunch. Kelly from HackCollege shows you 3 different methods. For full episodes of the podcast and more, check out www.hackcollege.com. The Probot Chiller was designed to solve this problem-it chills a 6-pack to ice cold in under 5 minutes.
About 3-4 hours or longer, if you need it cold quick put individual cans up in the freezer for 15-20 minutes. They also place some beer in the freezer and some in the refrigerator; they plan to test every five minutes to see if it's at drinkable temperature. Meanwhile, they place a six-pack in a bucket and spray it with a fire extinguisher. After three minutes, the beer is at the ideal temperature
How long does it take room temp. bottled beer to get cold when put in the frig.? Room Temp 90*F Frig about 38*F. 