1 Lemongrass is 1 of the main ingredients in citronella candles, that are burned to repel mosquitoes. 2  Include marigolds in your flower garden selection. 3  This flower is often used to create natural mosquito and insect repellent. 4  Keep scented geraniums, or pelargonium citrosum vanieenii, on window sills. 1 Keep scented geraniums, or pelargonium citrosum vanieenii, on window sills. 2  These flowers can help keep mosquitoes away from the house. 3  Plant garlic and rosemary in your garden. 4  They can be used for cooking, while the outdoor plant will help to deter insects.
While you may have to encounter mosquitoes outside working or enjoy recreational activities, you definitely don’t want bites when you are inside your home. Ridding your home of these insects is a question of comfort and, in the case of certain species that carry disease, your health and that of your pets. 
1 These flowers can help keep mosquitoes away from the house. 2  Plant garlic and rosemary in your garden. 3  They can be used for cooking, while the outdoor plant will help to deter insects. 4  If you need to bring your herbs inside in the winter, plant them in a container that can go on a windowsill in the winter. 1 Keep scented geraniums, or pelargonium citrosum vanieenii, on window sills. 2  These flowers can help keep mosquitoes away from the house. 3  Plant garlic and rosemary in your garden. 4
Lavender also repels moths, mosquitoes, and fleas.: 1  Hang a bundle of it in your closet or lay a few sprigs of it in with the out of season clothes you are storing. 2  Grind it to a powder and sprinkle it on your pet's bedding. 3  Grow it in containers on your patio to repel mosquitoes. As it grows it repels mosquitoes. Try planting it around your patio or any area that you use in the evenings to keep the air smelling fresh and the mosquitoes on someone else's property. Rosemary also repels cats, so planting it around the kids sandbox is a good idea.
1 Hang a bundle of it in your closet or lay a few sprigs of it in with the out of season clothes you are storing. 2  Grind it to a powder and sprinkle it on your pet's bedding. 3  Grow it in containers on your patio to repel mosquitoes. 4  Grow it in your kitchen garden to keep rabbits out of your lettuce and spinach. As it grows it repels mosquitoes. Try planting it around your patio or any area that you use in the evenings to keep the air smelling fresh and the mosquitoes on someone else's property. Rosemary also repels cats, so planting it around the kids sandbox is a good idea.
Method 2 of 3: Repelling Them From Your Yard. 1. Use citronella products to repel them. mosquitoes don't like to go near citronella oil. In addition to using it on your body, citronella oil can be used in the following ways to keep mosquitoes away from your property: 1  Burn a citronella candle or torch. 2  The smoke in the air may help keep away some bugs. 1 The smoke in the air may help keep away some bugs. 2  Plant a citronella plant in a pot on your porch. 3  To use, you can snap off a twig and rub it over your skin and around the perimeter of your porch––the smell may discourage mosquitoes. 4  Use citronella incense coil
In addition to inflicting a painful bite, mosquitoes can transmit diseases. You can keep your local mosquito population under control by limiting their habitat on your property, and avoid their annoying bites by using the right barriers and repellents. Mosquitoes require water to breed. By eliminating these water sources, you can keep new generations of mosquitoes from taking up residence in your yard. 1  Drill holes in the bottom, not the sides, of any garbage or recycling containers stored outdoors. 2  Holes on the sides still allow enough water to accumulate in the bottom for mosquitoes to breed.
Best Answer: If I understand you correctly you have had mosquito problems in the summer even before your neighbors had pools, so it is not likely that the pools are a problem. Highly chlorinated water is not a good breeding place for mosquitos anyway. As a biologist, my guess would be that you have three different things going on. First, the fact that you have animals is a negative because the animals have a higher basal temperature than you do and are more attractive to mosquitos.
So, if you are looking for natural ways to get rid of mosquitoes in your house, then here are 10 ways to keep mosquitoes at bay. Neem oil: If you have been wondering how to kill mosquitoes, try neem oil as it acts as a great indoor mosquito-repellent. So if you want to use this remedy you could either rub some tea tree oil on your skin or add a few drops of it to a vaporizer. This way the scent of tea tree oil permeates the air and kills the mosquitoes in the house. Here’s how mosquitoes attack their targets.