ONVIF, or the Open Network Video Interface Forum, promotes a single global standard for IP cameras and other surveillance technology, with the goal that all ONVIF conformant products can work together regardless of manufacturer. ONVIF, or Open Network Video Interface Forum, promotes a global standard so IP cameras and devices can work together.
The Open Network Video Interface Forum (ONVIF) is an industry group dedicated to the development of standards relating to open IP video networking enabling the use of compliant products over non-proprietary networks. 
ONVIF ™ (Open Network Video Interface Forum) is an open standard developed to allow the management of IP cameras and other network video devices via a unified, open platform standard. ONVIF is an organization started in 2008 by Axis Communications, Bosch Security and Sony. 
ONVIF is an open industry forum for the development of a global standard for the interface of IP-based physical security products. Founded in 2008 by Axis, Bosch and Sony, the forum rapidly gained momentum and is today endorsed by the majority of the world’s largest manufacturers of IP video products. Axis was one of the founders of ONVIF in 2008, and continues to take a very active role in the forum, with participation in its committees and working groups.
ONVIF is a standard for talking to Network Camera Devices and other similar security hardware. It was established in 2008 by Axis Communications, Bosch and Sony. 
ONVIF is an open industry forum for the development of a global standard for the interface of IP-based physical security products. ONVIF is committed to the adoption of IP in the security market. The ONVIF specification will ensure interoperability between products regardless of manufacturer. The cornerstones of ONVIF are: 1  Standardization of .... 
The ONVIF Core Specification aims to standardize the network interface (on the network layer) of network video products. It defines a network video communication framework based on relevant IETF and Web Services standards including security and IP configuration requirements. The user member level is open to organizations that wish to use the network interface specification and have access to specification proposals but do not want to participate in any work of the forum. Technology and test tools are available to all ONVIF members to facilitate the development of conformant products.
Or in other words, to create a standard for how IP products within video surveillance and other physical security areas can communicate with each other. ONVIF is an organization started in 2008 by Axis Communications, Bosch Security Systems and Sony. The user member level is open to organizations that wish to use the network interface specification and have access to specification proposals but do not want to participate in any work of the forum. Technology and test tools are available to all ONVIF members to facilitate the development of conformant products.
ONVIF™ compatibility. The ONVIF specification is designed to create a standard for how CCTV IP products communicate with each other. The ONVIF specification aims to achieve interoperability between network video products regardless of manufacturer. OpenEye cameras and recorders are ONVIF compliant and have been tested against the ONVIF core specifications
ONVIF membership is open to manufacturers, software developers, consultants, system integrators, end users and other interest groups that wish to participate in the activities of ONVIF. The ONVIF specification aims to achieve interoperability between network video products regardless of manufacturer. The user member level is open to organizations that wish to use the network interface specification and have access to specification proposals but do not want to participate in any work of the forum. Technology and test tools are available to all ONVIF members to facilitate the development of conformant products.