Comments 0. The lifespan of the traditional desktop computer is expanding. 15 years ago the pace of change was so fast you have 5 years between deploying a desktop computer and it being so out of date you wrote it off as junk. The average lifespan of a desktop computer’s hard drive today is substantially greater than the average lifespan of a desktop computer’s hard drive 15 years ago. Components are lasting longer and need replacement less frequently. In the past, many organizations only switched OS when they retired computer hardware
When you fork out a bunch of money for a new desktop computer, you expect it to last for the long haul, right? The average life span of a desktop computer is about 3-5 years. There are many variables that can reduce the life span though, such as how much you use it and how hard you push it, environmental heat and humidity, dust, and insects. 
Laptops are subject to more abuse than desktops, which is why laptops have shorter lifespans. If the average laptop made today were placed in a clean, well ventilated room, it could likely run for 10 years without problem if no one touched it. A desktop will be up to date for two years, likely run into a small problem within 4 years ($50 to $100 to fix), and can last 6 years before the cost of repair exceeds remaining value.
Ablestock.com/AbleStock.com/Getty Images. Tech experts generally agree a computer should last anywhere between three to five years before needing to be replaced. Of course, this number is just a generalization and a number of factors play into lifespan, ranging from the computer's quality, care and room for upgrades. 
The lifespan of a computer is going to vary. Depending on how often you use the computer and what you use it for is going to factor in the equation. Also, the original equipment of the computer is going to play a big factor. If you buy a low-end computer, you are typically getting dated hardware. 
The Average Lifespan for Laptops. Your laptop should last between three and five years. Creatas Images/Creatas/Getty Images. Your laptop's compact, all-in-one design enables you to take it with you just about anywhere and still be able to work and play. As a machine, however, it won't last forever and you'll eventually need to replace it. Although each individual laptop's actual lifespan varies, on average a laptop will typically give you between three and five years of use.
Although the laptop itself can last five years or more, the battery's life typically runs a bit shorter. As batteries age, their ability to hold a charge is compromised. The lifespan of a laptop battery varies depending on how it's used, but averages between 18 and 24 months. As it reaches the end of the line, you'll have less and less time available on a full charge. As a machine, however, it won't last forever and you'll eventually need to replace it. Although each individual laptop's actual lifespan varies, on average a laptop will typically give you between three and five years of use.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: As a rule of thumb, the hardware in a decent laptop will be up to date for two years, and the laptop can be expected to have a lifespan of 4 years during which it requires 1 or more repairs, after four years it may accumulate problems beyond the capability of economical repair. A desktop will be up to date for two years, likely run into a small problem within 4 years ($50 to $100 to fix), and can last 6 years before the cost of repair exceeds remaining value.
1. The average life-span is typically 6-7 years or more. Depending on what your OS you have support for it vary. Now the average hardware will advance to the point of certain age that you need to upgrade. You can keep your laptop in good condition is will last you 10+ years