Ecuador produced both arabica and robusta varieties, with over half of the plantings in the hilly areas of Manab Province; most of the remaining plantings were found in the western foothills of the Andes south of Guayaquil. In 1987 over 380,000 hectares were devoted to coffee, and 373,000 tons were produced. Cotton and hemp were the principal fiber crops. The government carried out a program in the 1980s to increase both the quality and quantity of cotton produced. Output increased, and by 1986 Ecuador was nearly self-sufficient in cotton.
Banana production in Ecuador is important to the national economy. It ranks among the world's top producers of bananas, ranked 5th with an annual production of 8 million tonnes (6% of world production) as of 2011. The country exports more than 4 million tonnes annually. In 1974, Ecuador became a member of the Union of Banana Exporting Countries in an attempt to bargain for better prices. The UEB proposal of an export tax did not succeed in Ecuador, however.
Ecuador was one of the world's major castor bean producers. Although the bean was inedible, its oil was used for medicinal purposes and as a lubricant in precision tools. The plant could be grown on dry lands where it was uneconomical to raise other crops, or planted along with corn, peanuts, or cotton. Cotton and hemp were the principal fiber crops. The government carried out a program in the 1980s to increase both the quality and quantity of cotton produced. Output increased, and by 1986 Ecuador was nearly self-sufficient in cotton.
The smooth, bitter-tasting paste extracted from the beans is the key ingredient in chocolate and one of this Andean country's claims to fame. It is also deeply connected to the history of Ecuador, the world's largest exporter of cocoa until the beginning of the 20th Century. Pacari's Ecuador-based production did not go unnoticed. Other Ecuadorean companies started making their own chocolate and foreign chocolate-makers came to Ecuador not only to source their beans, but also to produce bars.
Background. GROWING FINE COCOA: Ecuador has harvested cocoa beans for many years, with an estimated 100,000 families engaged in the cultivation of cocoa trees in the country. Ecuador exports about 65% of the fine cocoa produced in the world whose main feature is a unique floral flavor unmatched in the world.
Image caption Ecuador has some of the oldest varieties of cocoa trees, which have distinctive flavours. In the lush province of Esmeraldas, on Ecuador's northern border with Colombia, farmers are proud to say they produce black gold. They are not talking about oil, Ecuador's main export, but cocoa beans. Pacari's Ecuador-based production did not go unnoticed. Other Ecuadorean companies started making their own chocolate and foreign chocolate-makers came to Ecuador not only to source their beans, but also to produce bars.
Although Ecuador is a small coffee producing country, it is one of only 15 countries in the world that grows and exports both Arabica and Robusta coffee, the two main species of coffee produced and consumed in the world. 
At its peak in the mid-1950s, Ecuador was the largest banana producer in the world. In 1954, five companies including Standard Fruit, United Fruit, and Noboa handled 80 percent of Ecuador's banana exports. A decade later, there were 3,000 banana farms in the country, each averaging approximately 158 acres in size. In 1974, Ecuador became a member of the Union of Banana Exporting Countries in an attempt to bargain for better prices. The UEB proposal of an export tax did not succeed in Ecuador, however.
The United States is the primary market for Ecuadorian exports as well as Ecuador's largest supplier of imports. Ecuador's main export commodities are petroleum, bananas, cut flowers and shrimp. Its main export partners are the United States, Panama, Peru and Italy. 