Geography. The Republic of Artsakh (Nagorno Karabakh) is located in the south-eastern part of the Minor Caucasus. The relief of the republic is typically mountainous; it covers the east part of the Artsakhian upland and goes down obliquely from the west to east. 
Nagorno Karabakh (Artsakh). The Gandzasar Monastery is located in the Nagorno Karabakh Republic (NKR), an independent state that emerged as a result of the break-up of the USSR’s Azerbaijani Soviet Socialist Republic into two entities: the Azerbaijani Republic and NKR. 
The region is usually equated with the administrative borders of the former Nagorno-Karabakh Autonomous Oblast comprising an area of 4,400 square kilometres (1,700 sq mi). The historical area of the region, however, encompasses approximately 8,223 square kilometres (3,175 sq mi). Nagorno-Karabakh is often referred to by the Armenians living in the area as Artsakh (Armenian: արցախ), designating the 10th province of the ancient Kingdom of Armenia. In Urartian inscriptions (9th–7th centuries BC), the name Urtekhini is used for the region.
The landlocked mountainous region of Nagorno-Karabakh is the subject of an unresolved dispute between Azerbaijan, in which it lies, and its ethnic Armenian majority, backed by neighbouring Armenia. 
Nagorno-Karabakh is a landlocked region in the South Caucasus, lying between Lower Karabakh and Zangezur and covering the southeastern range of the Lesser Caucasus mountains. The region is mostly mountainous and forested. Nagorno-Karabakh is often referred to by the Armenians living in the area as Artsakh (Armenian: արցախ), designating the 10th province of the ancient Kingdom of Armenia. In Urartian inscriptions (9th–7th centuries BC), the name Urtekhini is used for the region.
Geographic Location, Climate, Natural Resources and Wildlife of the Nagorno Karabakh Republic. The Nagorno Karabakh Republic is situated in the southeastern part of Caucasus Minor. The landscape of the republic is extremely rugged and mountainous, but it includes the eastern part of the Karabakh plateau, inclining from west to the east and merging with the Artsakh valley, a major part of the Kur-Araks lowland. 
Karabakh Map. Karabakh is a region in Azerbaijan, Armenia. The region has extended from the highland of the Lesser Caucasus to the lowlands located between Kura and Aras rivers. In 1923 after the establishment of Nagorno-Karabakh Autonomous District, the highland of the region became known as Nagorno-Karabakh. Nagorno-Karabakh declared their independence in the year 1991. Karabakh in the official Soviet parlance is known as Nagorno-Karabakh. The district is 1,699 square miles in size and the current population of the region is around 153,000. The rugged beauty and wild mountains of the region is the main attraction to the tourists.
Understand [edit]. Nagorno-Karabakh is a landlocked region in the South Caucasus, lying between Lower Karabakh and Zangezur and covering the south eastern range of the Lesser Caucasus mountains. The region is mostly mountainous and forested and has an area of 8,223 square kilometres (3,175 mi²). Nagorno-Karabakh Or else known as The Republic of Artsakh is an unrecognized republic in the Caucasus, officially part of Azerbaijan, but under Armenian control. It can only be accessed through Armenia.
The Nagorno-Karabakh Republic has a multi-party system; in 2009, the American NGO Freedom House ranked the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic above the republics of Armenia and Azerbaijan with respect to civil and political rights. The Nagorno-Karabakh Republic is a presidential democracy with a unicameral parliament. The de facto country is very mountainous, averaging 1,097 metres (3,599 ft) above sea level.