Find the Fastest Public DNS Server. Namebench is a free tool that helps you speed up your web browsing. Developed as a 20% project at Google, namebench works by hunting down the fastest DNS server based on your location and browsing history. 
namebench is completely free and does not modify your system in any way. This project began as a 20% project at Google. More Info ». namebench runs on Mac OS X, Windows, and UNIX, and is available with a graphical user interface as well as a command-line interface.
DNS benchmarking tools. This is where DNS benchmarking tools &#8212 client-side applications that test the performance of DNS name servers &#8212 come into play. They have the ability to: 1  Determine whether a particular DNS name server is available. I use OpenDNS. Namebench determined my secondary OpenDNS name server (208.67.220.220) had the best response time. That's interesting, because, OpenDNS's choice for primary server is in sixth place. I guess I will have to swap the two in the network adapter's configuration.
namebench 2.0. namebench provides personalized DNS server recommendations based on your browsing history. WARNING: This tool is in the midst of a major rewrite. The master branch is currently in experimental form and currently lacks a user interface, nor does it support any command-line options.
The next section asks what tests to run and how to setup the queries: 1  Include Censorship Checks: Check that censored domain names are blocked. 2  Query Data Source: Determine where Namebench selects the test host names. 3  Typically it is the browser history, but there are other options such as the Top 2000 web sites. I use OpenDNS. Namebench determined my secondary OpenDNS name server (208.67.220.220) had the best response time. That's interesting, because, OpenDNS's choice for primary server is in sixth place. I guess I will have to swap the two in the network adapter's configuration.
Download (1.12 MB). NameBench is a program designed to help the user choose the highest DNS servers. After some analysis, it displays the fastest DNS on which the user can connect. Analyzing: this program was developed to perform a series of tests to identify and display the most powerful DNS servers. 
Check what your PC is running. namebench-1.3.1-Windows.exe is known as Microsoft Windows Operating System, it also has the following name Firefox or Google Chrome or MOBILedit! or and it is developed by Microsoft Corporation, it is also developed by Mozilla Corporation Google Inc. COMPELSON Labs. 
Find out what's the fastest DNS service for you. Jon Riggall. 0. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. You may not know it, but you can choose which service changes the address you put in your browser to IP numbers, the authentic coordinates of the internet. It's not something most users will think about, but it's surprising how much difference a change of DNS sever can make.
(Click the image above for a closer look.). Namebench is a free, open-source download, works with Windows, Mac OS X, and Linux. If you give it a try, let's hear what DNS server scores highest for you in the comments. namebench [Google Code via Smarterware ]. 2 135 Reply Leave a reply. Kinja is in read-only mode. 
Find a Faster DNS Server with Namebench. One way to speed up your Internet browsing experience is using a faster DNS server. Today we take a look at Namebench, which will compare your current DNS server against others out there, and help you find a faster one. Namebench. Download the file and run the executable (link below). 