The ethnic origin of the individual is irrelevant outside of how their government would proceed to interact with our business. 4 people found this helpful. We strive to have diversity in the workplace and hire without regard to religion, sex, and ethnic origin to ensure that we hire the best workers. 8 people found this helpful. You should try and know the ethnic origin of the people you will market your product to and market it appropriately.
The Census Bureau defines the term ancestry: Ancestry refers to a person's ethnic origin or descent, roots, or heritage, or the place of birth of the person or the person's parents or ancestors before their arrival in the United States. In 1980 the question was What is your ancestry?, which is slightly different than in 1990 and 2000 in that it didn't include the term ethnic origin. Copyright 1995-2007 by Robert Ragan-All Rights Reserved.
Ethnic origin implies one or more of the following: 1  shared origins or social background; 2  shared culture and traditions that are distinctive, maintained between generations, and lead to a sense of identity and group; 3  a common language. 4  a common religious tradition. Ethnic origin has become a popular classification in statistics, where the concept of races has been largely discarded since World War II, for various reasons. A reaction against the abuses of the Nazis and apartheid made it hard to collect, store or publish racial data
(January 2013). The concept of ethnic origin is an attempt to classify people, not according to their current nationality, but according to commonalities in their social background. Ethnic origin has become a popular classification in statistics, where the concept of races has been largely discarded since World War II, for various reasons. A reaction against the abuses of the Nazis and apartheid made it hard to collect, store or publish racial data
Nationality means a state of origin in one is born. Every ethnicity belongs to a race, the races of the world being, Latin, caucation, African and Asian, which nationality just means where your born. The reason nationality and ethnicity are synonyms to each other is because the usage of the word nationailty. Nationality is not always your country of origin. People get naturalised. Ethnicity is not racial (because races don’t exist), and a DNA-test won’t tell you what ethnicity/ies you are. Ethnicity is about (native) language and culture.
If a person from an Italian family was born in Greece, then that person would have an Italian ethnicity, and not a Greek ethnicity. Nationality is a word that pertains to the state of origin. Nationality can be defined as the relationship between a person and his or her state of origin. Nationality also means that a person has the protection of the state where he or she was born. Nationality is not always your country of origin. People get naturalised. Ethnicity is not racial (because races don’t exist), and a DNA-test won’t tell you what ethnicity/ies you are. Ethnicity is about (native) language and culture.
Report Abuse. White British isn't an ethnic origin. Ethnic origins is your background, your skin colour has nothing to do with your background. I am a British citizen, my ethnic background is English/Irish/Austrian/Hungarian. When I need to put my ethnicity on forms I just put English. Where you came from, that is your ethnic background.
People derived from of a variety of ethnic origin types currently inhabit the United States, and which include white, black, American Indian, Asian, Pacific Islander and Eskimo. We strive to have diversity in the workplace and hire without regard to religion, sex, and ethnic origin to ensure that we hire the best workers. 8 people found this helpful. You should try and know the ethnic origin of the people you will market your product to and market it appropriately.