Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Cleopatra is one of Egypt's most famous leaders because of all she did to try to save her kingdom from the grips of the roman empire. Her story is also highly interesting with many elements of a great tragedy. 
The Famous Queen Cleopatra. Cleopatra is by far one of the most ever famous queens of all times in ancient Egypt. Her story of love and death is very famous and she ruled Egypt and made it quite powerful at the time. Cleopatra was born in 69 B.C. in Alexandria. She was the third daughter in line to her father Ptolemy XII; she later had another sister and two younger brothers.
Cleopatra VII was the last Greek Pharaoh and the only one who learned the Egyptian language. She was supported by 2 Roman generals~ Julious Caesar and Mark Antony. When … Augustus gained power over the Roman Empire, he declared war on Antony and Cleopatra and defeated them in 31 BC. Augustus arrived in Alexsandria and demanded Cleopatra's surrender. She was too proud to give in and commited succide. Later that year, Caesar restores Cleopatra to the Egyptian throne. Later in 40 B.C Cleopatra gave birth to twins children with Mark Antony. The twin children were named Alexander Helios and Cleopatra Selene ll. Four years later, Cleopatra gave birth to another baby boy named Ptolemy Philadelphus.
I know this is awkward, but the truth is that Cleopatra VII was most famous for having secret affairs with powerful men, (Julius Caesar and Roman Mark Antony). She suicided herself (for Antony). 
Cleopatra VII Philopator (Greek: κλεοπάτρα φιλοπάτωρ; 69 – August 12, 30 BC), known to history simply as Cleopatra, was the last active pharaoh of Ptolemaic Egypt, shortly survived as pharaoh by her son Caesarion. After her reign, Egypt became a province of the then-recently established Roman Empire. Cleopatra originally ruled jointly with her father, Ptolemy XII Auletes, and later with her brothers, Ptolemy XIII and Ptolemy XIV, whom she married as per Egyptian custom, but eventually she became sole ruler.
Queen. The last ruler of the Macedonian dynasty, Cleopatra VII Thea Philopator was born around 69 B.C. The line of rule was established in 323 B.C., following the death of Alexander the Great and ended with Egypt's annexation by Rome in 30.
I know this is awkward, but the truth is that Cleopatra VII was most famous for having secret affairs with powerful men, (Julius Caesar and Roman Mark Antony) She suicided he … rself (for Antony). Later that year, Caesar restores Cleopatra to the Egyptian throne. Later in 40 B.C Cleopatra gave birth to twins children with Mark Antony. The twin children were named Alexander Helios and Cleopatra Selene ll. Four years later, Cleopatra gave birth to another baby boy named Ptolemy Philadelphus.
c50 BC, Cleopatra, queen of Egypt, the last and most famous of the Ptolemaic dynasty. (Hulton Archive/Getty Images). Here, writing for History Extra, Hamer reveals six lesser-know facts about the Egyptian ruler…. As a woman, the ruler of a very rich country, Cleopatra’s independence was anathema to Rome. She is one of best-known women in history, famed for her supposed beauty and intellect, and her love affairs with Julius Caesar and Mark Antony. But, argues Mary Hamer, most of what we think we know about Cleopatra is merely the echo of Roman propaganda.
Her younger brother Ptolemy XIII later reigned with her. Cleopatra s story is one of the most famous ever. Not only because of her great love, but because she was deeply in love of Egypt and she is classified by historians to be the last Pharoah of Egypt. Her story of love and death is very famous and she ruled Egypt and made it quite powerful at the time. Cleopatra was born in 69 B.C. in Alexandria. She was the third daughter in line to her father Ptolemy XII; she later had another sister and two younger brothers.
Synopsis. Cleopatra's family ruled Egypt for more than 100 years before she was born around 69 B.C. The stories and myths surrounding Cleopatra's tragic life inspired a number of books, movies and plays, including Antony and Cleopatra by Shakespeare. Cleopatra has become one of the most well known ancient Egyptians. The last ruler of the Macedonian dynasty, Cleopatra VII Thea Philopator was born around 69 B.C. The line of rule was established in 323 B.C., following the death of Alexander the Great and ended with Egypt's annexation by Rome in 30.