Coat of Chrome can take that plain old ugly black plastic grille or dash and turn it into a chrome masterpiece. It was not that long ago when all cars and trucks had chrome grilles and chrome interior trim. If you think that your car, truck or SUV would look better with chrome grilles and dash accessories then contact us. We can add chrome, paint and what ever details that you want.
The chrome on the grilles are just painted plastic; media blasting would be best, but you can scuff and prime just like any other painted plastic surface. __________________. 2007 Silverado | Circle D stall | Corvette servo | Truetrac | TVS1900 | EPS Cam | ARH LTs. I do believe it is chrome, not painted on. You can sand it off. Follow the steps the dude above me did, it will be just like it was from the factory. But no you can not paint over the chrome, it hold up for any period of time...
i did the chrome surround of the grille and headlights with just a flat black enamel for plastic. degreaser is key, then wipe with alcohol (i used snowboard base cleaner) then you can use a self etching plastic primer, or a spray with primer built it. 
blue painters tape image by Jim Mills from Fotolia.com. You can transform the appearance of your chrome grill by refinishing it with the right kind of paint. Because metallic grills are nonporous, they are ill-suited for adhesion. Condition the grill to accept paint by abrading it. Unfortunately, chrome grills are too durable for the same friction-based abrasion methods used on vinyl and plastic surfaces. Instead, apply a special acidic primer that will etch the grill, otherwise you will ultimately end up with heavy chipping and peeling. Wait two to four hours for the grill to dry. Cover portions of the chrome grill you do not want painted with painter's tape. Cover the surface beneath the grill with drop cloths. Coat the chrome grill with etching spray primer. Hold the can about 8 inches from the grill as you apply. Wait four hours for the primed grill to dry. Coat the primed chrome grill with oil-based spray enamel
It took me about 4 hours to do in my backyard. You can get a professional job with a decent gun and good paint products. This is the first time I used an auto spray gun and auto paint but found it to be fairly easy. I will take you thru the step-by-step process on how I did the prep and paint work on my grille. 
http://www.dieseltruckresource.com/d...painting+grill. If you do a search for painting grill or painting grill bumper you'll find a boat load of post on this topic.... oh and from what i've heard.... You need to remove (sand) the chrome off the grill in order for the paint to adhear to it... There's a site that sells painted grills (OEM) but i cant remember the name of the place...maybe someone that does will help out...i'll save it this time... Hope this helps a little..
Ok, I am going to be painting a plastic chrome grill shell off my 2006 Dodge Ram truck. This is how I see it being done. Can anyone please correct me or tell me if I a missing a step or overdoing it.. 1. Take 400 grit sand paper-sand down the entire grill so the chrome is no longer shiney. 2. There is no way in hell you are going to remove that chrome. I would do just as you thought, sand it with 400, prime it and paint it. Here is the big difference, be sure to EPOXY prime it. Epoxy would be the perfect primer for that. DO NOT use a urethane or anything else, use an epoxy.
You can remove the grille to paint it and would be the best thing to do just for ease of painting. If you choose to do it on the car, yes mask off everything...bad things do happen. I restore old cars as a hobby and always prime first before paint. It really makes a difference when you apply you top coat. Best Answer: just tape off all around the grille with masking tape and newspaper and go at it, you can primer it first if you want but I have painted chrome grilles before with no primer and just the black paint and have had no problem as long as it's clean and free of any wax.