Ayurveda (Sanskrit: आयुर्वेद Āyurveda,  life-knowledge ; English pronunciation /ˌaɪ.ərˈveɪdə/) or Ayurvedic medicine is a system of medicine with historical roots in the Indian subcontinent. The use of opium is not found in the ancient Ayurvedic texts, and is first mentioned in the Sarngadhara Samhita (1300-1400 CE), a book on pharmacy used in Rajasthan in Western India, as an ingredient of an aphrodisiac to delay male ejaculation.
Ayurveda is an ancient Indian holistic medicine application that aims to harmonize the body, mind and spirit. Considered an alternative and complementary form of medicine in the United States, multiple ayurvedic treatments are available, including massage. 
Ayurveda, the ancient science of healing from India has always utilized massage as a part of its regimens for healing. From an Ayurvedic perspective, different forms of massage are useful to different people. The form of massage utilized is based upon a person’s constitution and imbalance. 
A. A. A. Ayurvedic medicine -- also known as Ayurveda -- is one of the world's oldest holistic (whole-body) healing systems. It was developed thousands of years ago in India. It is based on the belief that health and wellness depend on a delicate balance between the mind, body, and spirit. 
Ayurvedic medicine evolved in India, and is considered to be the world's oldest healthcare system. It is named for the Sanskrit word Ayurveda, meaning the science of life.. If that sounds like an all-encompassing definition, it is. Ayurvedic medicine is entirely holistic. 
Concept and Procedure of Ayurvedic Massage. The primary idea and purpose of Ayurvedic massage just as all other Ayurvedic treatment protocols are to help break and remove the toxins within the gross and subtle bodies. The toxins (Ama) are understood to be leftover putrefied-food stuff that has taken a grease-like form. In Ayurvedic body massage, the specialized Dosha oil (warmed), continuous strokes and techniques, full-body steam application, followed by the herbal formula wash/scrub, is an intense, dynamic and expansive experience.
Ayurvedic Massage: Ancient India’s Best-Kept Secret. Ayurvedic massage is a key part of Ayurvedic therapy. Just as a machine needs to be oiled, the body loves to have its largest organ, the skin, soothed, which is why oils are commonly used in Ayurvedic massage.
A Ben Kaminsky, Dermatology, answered. Ayurvedic massage, an ancient therapy that focuses on relaxation and the prevention of disease, is a spa favorite used for stress-related illnesses, to reverse the damage from negative lifestyle habits, and to maintain balance in the body. Howard S. Smith, Pain Medicine, answered. Ayurvedic massage is an ancient therapy that is useful for alleviating chronic pain and increasing relaxation. This ancient Indian remedy is said to unblock invisible marma points in the body through which energy flows. When this energy is freed, your body will heal itself
Definition: Ayurveda is both a form of bodywork and a philosophy of life that helps restore and maintain harmony and balance in one's life. Ayurvedic massage is just one part of the detoxification and rejuvenation program in which the body is vigorously massaged with warm oil and herbs.