How a low-pressure system affects weather. Often, you hear weather forecasters refer to a storm or low-pressure area moving toward your region. As you can see in the graphic above, air rises near low-pressure areas. As air rises, it cools and often condenses into clouds and precipitation. Usually, when forecasters say a low-pressure area is moving toward your region, cloudy weather and precipitation often result as the low-pressure area approaches. 
Air pressure is not uniform across the Earth however. The normal range of the Earth's air pressure is from 980 millibars (mb) to 1050 mb. These differences are the result of low and high air pressure systems which are caused by unequal heating across the Earth's surface and the pressure gradient force. Low and High Pressure. A low pressure system, or low, is an area where the atmospheric pressure is lower than that of the area surrounding it. Lows are usually associated with high winds, warm air, and atmospheric lifting
A pressure system is a region of the Earth's atmosphere where air pressure is a relative peak or lull in the sea level pressure distribution. The surface pressure at sea level varies minimally, with the lowest value measured 870.0 hectopascals (25.69 inHg) and the highest recorded 1,085.7 hectopascals (32.06 inHg). Main articles: Low-pressure area and Cyclone. A low-pressure area, or low, is a region where the atmospheric pressure at sea level is below that of surrounding locations. Low-pressure systems form under areas of wind divergence that occur in upper levels of the troposphere. The formation process of a low-pressure area is known as cyclogenesis
This type of system means the pressure inside the system is higher than that of the surrounding areas. High-pressure systems are usually associated with fair weather. This is because as the air sinks, it warms and is able to hold more water vapor. The humidity is usually lower in or near a high-pressure system, also contributing to fair weather. Many desert areas of the world are associated with a persistent high-pressure climates. The drier air helps create the desert environment.
by admin. Low vs High Pressure Systems. In the meteorological reports, in the news, the word pressure system is a common term and often indicates something is out of place. It is a major factor influencing the local weather
Air near the surface flows down and away in a high pressure system (left) and air flows up and together at a low pressure system (right). Credit: NESTA. Standing on the ground and looking up, you are looking through the atmosphere. It might not look like anything is there, especially if there are no clouds in the sky. 
For a general discussion on pressure areas, see Pressure system. A low-pressure area, low or depression, is a region where the atmospheric pressure is lower than that of surrounding locations. Low-pressure systems form under areas of wind divergence which occur in the upper levels of the troposphere. The formation process of a low-pressure area is known as cyclogenesis. Within the field of meteorology, atmospheric divergence aloft occurs in two areas. The center of the spiral-shaped cloud system is also the center of a low, and usually is where the pressure's lowest. This low-pressure system over Iceland spins counter-clockwise due to balance between the Coriolis force and the pressure gradient force. Weather system redirects here.