As per is part of a phrase, the rest of which is sometimes left out by people who don't know any better. It usually refers to regulation. As per the Fire Code, for examp … le, should be As per the stipulations of the Fire Code. 
2. for each. The dinner will cost $15 per person. per لِكُل за por za pro per; for hver ανά por kohta هر per par ל- हरेक prema szemelyenkent személyenként setiap (a) á ～mann a につき..., 일인당... vienam, kiekvienam vienam katram bagi setiap per per; person od na هر/por de pentru; fiecare на с za po poper ต่อ หนึ่ง her, ... biri icin için each; for each one: The charge was five dollars per. as per, according to; in accordance with: arranged as per instructions. for ]. usage: per meaning “for each” occurs chiefly in technical or statistical contexts: miles per gallon; cost per person. It is also common in sports commentary: 16 points per quarter. A or an is often considered more suitable in nontechnical use.
A man-hour is the amount of work performed by the average worker in one hour. It is used in written estimates for estimation of the total amount of uninterrupted labour required to perform a task. The average annual hours actually worked per person in employment as reported by OECD countries in 2007, for example, ranged from a minimum of 1,389 hours (in the Netherlands) to a maximum of 2,316 hours (in South Korea).
Samples in periodicals archive: Cost is $5,880 per person in a group of eight to 12 for a 12-day safari. 7-night vacations with airfare, hotel and more from $499 per person. 75 per person or Ea la carte items, which are heated at home. Weekend travelers incur a $25 per person surcharge in either direction when traveling Friday, Saturday or Sunday. The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. The Acronym Finder is ©1988-2015, Acronym Finder, All Rights Reserved.
Usage Discussion of PER. Per occurs most frequently in business contexts; its use outside such contexts is often criticized but is quite widespread, especially in sense 2. Its most common and natural nonbusiness uses always involve figures, usually in relation to price, automobiles, or sports. ADVERTISEMENT.
Notice that Miss is not an abbreviation, so we don't put a period after it. Ms. is not an abbreviation, either, but we do use a period after it  probably to keep it consistent with Mr. and Mrs. The plural of Mr. is Messrs. (We invited Messrs. Carter, Lincoln, and Ford.) The plural of Dr. is Drs. (We consulted Drs. Carter, Lincoln, and Ford.) The plural of Mrs. is Mmes or Mmes
Spain-Spanish. Thank you so much, roanheads and fenixpollo. Your contributions are really valuable. Ok, I will consider to leave per person instead of pp or whatever... As you say, usually I didn't find the abbreviation in professional text, but on websites or informal texts. I really appreciate your help (and roanheads, your will to check the leaflets). Un saludo a todos. 
per. 1. for or in each or every; a or an: Membership costs $10 per year. 2. according to; in accordance with: I delivered the box per your instructions. 3. by means of; by; through: Send it per messenger. 4. Informal. each; for each one: The charge was five dollars per. as per, according to; in accordance with: arranged as per instructions. for ]. usage: per meaning “for each” occurs chiefly in technical or statistical contexts: miles per gallon; cost per person. It is also common in sports commentary: 16 points per quarter. A or an is often considered more suitable in nontechnical use
This page is about the meanings of the acronym/abbreviation/shorthand PP in the Miscellaneous field in general and in the Unit Measures terminology in particular. Per Person. Miscellaneous » Unit Measures. Rate it: (4.00 / 4 votes). 