The term paracord comes from the cord used on the soldiers parachutes in WWII. The term 550 simply means that it has a breaking strength of 550 pounds, giving it the name of 550 paracord, or 550 cord. When soldiers landed in the battle fields, they would cut the paracord off their parachutes and pack it up for later use. Although this particular type of paracord can be called mil-spec paracord or mil-spec 550 cord, it is not the genuine 550 cord which was used by the Military.
Parachute cord, paracord, para-cord or 550 cord are all names to describe a lightweight nylon kernmantle rope originally used as suspension lines of U.S. parachutes. The 550 cord consists of a 32 strand woven nylon outer sheath with an inner core of seven, 2 ply nylon yarns. When it comes to using this cord in a survival situation, not all paracord is created equal — especially now that China has jumped on the paracord bracelet bandwagon! Don’t count on that being military grade or having the tensile strength you would need in a survival situation.
Paracord (otherwise known as parachute cord, 550 cord, and type III cord) gets its name from the fact that it was originally designed for the suspension of lines in parachutes. At the end of the day, the uses of paracord really come down to your imagination! From making nets all the way to assembling straps, you really have a great deal of bushcraft function options with only just a few feet of paracord on you. The same can’t be said for plain-Jane nylon rope.
More details about this amazing cord…. Real paracord is made of seven strong nylon cords with each cord made of several smaller woven strands, all wrapped in a flexible outer braided nylon wrapper. The combined breaking strength of real paracord is 550 pounds. For this reason, some call it “550 cord”. Tweet. Paracord is a highly versatile multi-filament nylon cord with nearly unlimited uses, applications and benefits, and is a must have for any survival and emergency preparedness kit.
Flexibility. The core difference between standard nylon cord and paracord (besides paracord being 3 times strong per mass on average) is the way that paracord can be easily modified to fit any number of situations. Let’s take the golden standard that is 550/type III paracord for instance. At the end of the day, the uses of paracord really come down to your imagination! From making nets all the way to assembling straps, you really have a great deal of bushcraft function options with only just a few feet of paracord on you. The same can’t be said for plain-Jane nylon rope.
29 Dec. Paracord (a/k/a, parachute cord) is a soft, lightweight nylon rope originally used as suspension lines of U.S. parachutes. The paracord used in Paracord Shop products is “550 cord”, which is made up of a 32 strand woven nylon outer sheath with an inner core of seven, 2 ply nylon yarns. Because of the high number of woven strands, the exterior sheath has a smooth feel. Paracord has a diameter of roughly 1/8th of an inch. All of Paracord Shop’s products are made in the U.S.A. with “Type III” paracord which is manufactured to have a minimum breaking strength of 550 pounds. The paracord comes from a government contractor which supplies the military.
Paracord (also parachutecord or 550 cord) is a lightweight nylon cord originally used in the suspension lines of US parachutes during World War II. 
Ever since paracord started becoming popular amongst civilians, there has been plenty of knock off types of paracord made. Although this particular type of paracord can be called mil-spec paracord or mil-spec 550 cord, it is not the genuine 550 cord which was used by the Military. It may look like the real deal on the outside, but it sure doesn't on the inside. It is also larger in diameter, and has a rougher texture as well
Parachute cord (also paracord or 550 cord when referring to type-III paracord) is a lightweight nylon kernmantle rope originally used in the suspension lines of parachutes. This cord is useful for many other tasks and is now used as a general purpose utility cord by both military personnel and civilians. A 10 ft (3 m) coil of commercial parachute cord. The sheath of this commercial parachute cord is braided from 32 strands and the core made up of seven two-ply yarns. The scale is in inches. Genuine MIL-SPEC MIL-C-5040 Type III paracord has 7 to 9 inner yarns each made up of 3 strands.