Definition of MONARCHY for Kids. 1. : a state or country having a king or queen. 2. : a form of government headed by
A monarchy is a form of government that has a single person known as a monarch at its head. Monarchs use such titles as king, queen, emperor, or empress. Monarchies were once common throughout the world, but now they are rare.
mon•ar•chy. 1. a government or state in which the supreme power is actually or nominally lodged in a monarch. 2. supreme power or sovereignty held by a single person. 3. the fact or state of being a monarchy. See also: Government.
Full Definition of MONARCHY. 1. : undivided rule or absolute sovereignty by a single person. 2. : a nation or state having a monarchical government. 3. : a government having a hereditary chief of state with life tenure and powers varying from nominal to absolute. See monarchy defined for English-language learners.
A state that has a monarch. The monarch and royal family of a country: the monarchy is the focus of loyalty and service. ORIGIN late Middle English: from Old French monarchie, via late Latin from Greek monarkhia ‘the rule of one.’. A monarchy is a dictatorship government ruled by one King or by one Queen.
Absolute Monarchy. An absolute monarchy is a form of government in which the ruling monarch enjoys absolute control without limitations from a constitution or from law. In this form of government, the monarch is the head of state and head of government with unrestricted political power.
monarchy. 1. a form of government in which supreme authority is vested in a single and usually hereditary figure, such as a king, and whose powers can vary from those of an absolute despot to those of a figurehead. 2. a country reigned over by a king, prince, or other monarch.
An absolute monarchy is a form of government in which the ruling monarch enjoys absolute control without limitations from a constitution or from law. In this form of government, the monarch is the head of state and head of government with unrestricted political power.