You can find the  account of the first pentecost in Acts 2.      So the answer to your question specifically is that the first  pentecost was in the year of Jesus death and resurrection, AD 32 or  33. 2 people found this useful. Answered. In Countries, States, and Cities. It takes place fifty days after Passover, just as the Christian Pentecost takes place fifty days after Easter. Numbers 11:25 tells us that on that occasion, the spirit of God came down on the seventy elders and they began to prophesy in ecstasy.
In the New Testament, Pentecost was the occasion of the descent of the Holy Spirit upon the Apostles and other followers of Jesus Christ, as described in the Acts of the Apostles 2:1–31. and therefore in the Christian liturgical year, it became a feast commemorating this occasion. Pentecost is celebrated fifty days after Easter Sunday, inclusively (i.e. 49 days with the first day counted, seven weeks), hence its name. Pentecost falls on the tenth day after Ascension Thursday (which falls 40 days after Easter).
In Christian tradition Pentecost is part of the Moveable Cycle of the ecclesiastical year. According to Christian tradition, Pentecost is always seven weeks after Easter Sunday; that is to say, 50 days after Easter (inclusive of Easter Day). In other words, it falls on the eighth Sunday, counting Easter Day. Pentecost is celebrated fifty days after Easter Sunday, inclusively (i.e. 49 days with the first day counted, seven weeks), hence its name. Pentecost falls on the tenth day after Ascension Thursday (which falls 40 days after Easter).
The Day of Pentecost came 50 days after the Feast of Firstfruits. In the crucifixion year Firstfruits came on Sunday the 17th of Nisan. Counting out those 50 days through a 30 day month followed by a 29 day month we come to Sunday the 7th of Sivan. And on that first Pentecost when Moses brought down the Law to the Nation of Israel 3,000 died. But when Peter preached on Pentecost of that year YHVH-God did a new thing. 3,000 were saved. The infilling of the Holy Spirit brought new life in the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.
Since Easter is a “movable feast,” meaning that it occurs on different days in different years (it is tied to the lunar cycle while the calendar is solar based), Pentecost is also moveable. It can occur as early as May 10 and as late as June 13 (see The Church Year for current dates). The New Testament writers associate the events of Acts 2 with Pentecost, and relate it to the prophecies of Joel 2 and promises of Jesus (Acts 1:8). In both, the emphasis is on a empowerment through the Holy Spirit to enable the people of God to witness to Jesus the Christ.
According to church tradition, Pentecost is always about seven weeks after Easter Sunday, or 50 days after Easter, including Easter Day. In some Orthodox churches, Whitsunday is observed after the date set by the western churches. Select another year-range: Pentecost is a Christian holy day commemorating the descent of the Holy Ghost upon the disciples of Jesus Christ, according to the New Testament of the Bible. It is also known as Whitsunday, or Whit Sunday.
Pentecost Definition and Summary. Pentecost, also known as Whitsunday, celebrates the birthday of the Christian Church, when the Holy Spirit came upon the Apostles in the. . Pentecost is celebrated 50 days after Easter, on Pentecost Sunday. Christian Pentecost differs from the Jewish celebration. In 2015, Pentecost falls on May 24th in the Catholic Calendar (dates in other years). Prayers: Pentecost Prayers