For the best results, treatment should begin within 2 days of symptom onset or exposure. 1  The recommended dose for treating adults with flu is 75 mg twice daily for five days. 2  Children are treated with 30-75 mg twice daily for five days. 3  The adult dose for prevention of flu is 75 mg daily for 10 days. 
Until now, Tamiflu was approved to treat the flu in adults and children ages 1 year and older who have had symptoms for less than two days. The drug is also approved to prevent flu infection in children and adults over 1 year of age. Children under age 1 should receive 3 milligrams of Tamiflu per kilogram of body weight twice daily for five days. This smaller dose requires a different dispenser than what currently comes in the Tamiflu package.
Indications. Tamiflu is a prescription medicine used to treat the flu (influenza) in people 2 weeks of age and older who have had flu symptoms for no more than 2 days. Tamiflu can also reduce the chance of getting the flu in people 1 year and older. Tamiflu does not prevent bacterial infections that may happen with the flu. In a clinical trial, Tamiflu helped children aged 1-12 years get better up to 1.5 days (26%) faster compared with children who didn't take Tamiflu within 48 hours of their first symptoms.
Who can take Tamiflu. Tamiflu is a prescription medicine used to treat the flu (influenza) in people 2 weeks of age and older who have had flu symptoms for no more than 2 days. Tamiflu can also reduce the chance of getting the flu in people 1 year and older. Tamiflu does not prevent bacterial infections that may happen with the flu. In a clinical trial, Tamiflu helped children aged 1-12 years get better up to 1.5 days (26%) faster compared with children who didn't take Tamiflu within 48 hours of their first symptoms.
1 It is approved for treatment of influenza in children over 1 year of age. 2  In the U.S., Tamiflu is dosed according to body weight in younger children. 3  Older children (over 40 kg or 88 lbs) and adolescents receive the same dose as adults. 
The recommended oral dose of TAMIFLU for treatment of influenza in pediatric patients 1 to 12 years of age is shown in Table 1. The recommended oral dose of TAMIFLU for treatment of influenza in pediatric patients 2 weeks to less than 1 year of age is 3 mg/kg twice daily for 5 days (shown in Table 1). Pediatric Patients (1 to 12 years of age). The recommended oral dose of TAMIFLU for prophylaxis of influenza in pediatric patients 1 to 12 years of age based on body weight is shown in Table 1. Prophylaxis in pediatric patients following close contact with an infected individual is recommended for 10 days.
Adults and Adolescents (13 years of age and older). The recommended oral dose of TAMIFLU for prophylaxis of influenza in adults and adolescents 13 years and older following close contact with an infected individual is 75 mg once daily for at least 10 days. Pediatric Patients (1 to 12 years of age). The recommended oral dose of TAMIFLU for prophylaxis of influenza in pediatric patients 1 to 12 years of age based on body weight is shown in Table 1. Prophylaxis in pediatric patients following close contact with an infected individual is recommended for 10 days.
Treatment and chemoprophylaxis dosing and frequency are the same for children as for adults. Oseltamivir. Oseltamivir is FDA-approved for treatment of children aged 2 weeks and older and chemoprophylaxis of influenza among children aged 1 year and older (116). The approved dosage for children aged 10 years and older is 200 mg per day (100 mg twice a day); however, for children weighing less than 40 kg, prescribing 5 mg/kg per day, regardless of age, is recommended [204].
On December 21, 2012, FDA approved oseltamivir for the treatment of influenza in people aged 2 weeks and older. During the influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 (2009 H1N1) pandemic, recommendations for oseltamivir dosing of children aged younger than 1 year were developed, on the basis of very limited pharmacokinetic data. The approved dosage for children aged 10 years and older is 200 mg per day (100 mg twice a day); however, for children weighing less than 40 kg, prescribing 5 mg/kg per day, regardless of age, is recommended [204].