Trees supply leaves with water because of a decrease in hydrostatic (water) pressure in upper, leaf-bearing parts called crowns or canopies. The pressure difference lifts the water to the leaves. Ninety percent of tree water is eventually dispersed from leaf stomata, through evaporation, into the atmosphere. That beneficial loss of water from plants is called transpiration.
1 If a plant’s soil has too much water, the roots can rot, and the plant can’t get enough oxygen from the soil. 2  If there is not enough water for a plant, the nutrients it needs cannot travel through the plant. 3  A plant cannot grow if it doesn’t have healthy roots, so the proper balance of water is key when growing plants. 
By Steve Nix. How Trees Absorb Water: Water enters a tree through roots by osmosis and any dissolved mineral nutrients travel with it upward through the xylem (using capillary action) and into the leaves. These nutrients feed the tree through the process of leaf photosynethisis. The pressure difference lifts the water to the leaves. Ninety percent of tree water is eventually dispersed from leaf stomata, through evaporation, into the atmosphere. That beneficial loss of water from plants is called transpiration.
Trees help prevent water pollution. Trees reduce runoff by breaking rainfall thus allowing the water to flow down the trunk and into the earth below the tree. This prevents stormwater from carrying pollutants to the ocean. When mulched, trees act like a sponge that filters this water naturally and uses it to recharge groundwater supplies. Trees conserve energy. Three trees placed strategically around a single-family home can cut summer air conditioning needs by up to 50 percent. By reducing the energy demand for cooling our houses, we reduce carbon dioxide and other pollution emissions from power plants.
What makes water gardening unique is that the plants you grow are growing in a water filled environment. Things like water depth, water temperature and what to do with plants during the winter now become a consideration. Soils for Aquatics. Water lilies, lotus, and other aquatic plants do best when they are planted in heavy clay loam soils similar to what you would have in a garden setting. 
Transpiration is the process by which moisture is carried through plants from roots to small pores on the underside of leaves, where it changes to vapor and is released to the atmosphere. Transpiration is essentially evaporation of water from plant leaves. Plant transpiration is pretty much an invisible process, since the water is evaporating from the leaf surfaces, you don't just go out and see the leaves sweating. Just because you can't see the water doesn't mean it is not being put into the air, though.
However, caring for trees requires different watering methods than your lawn. During water restrictions, irrigation systems designed to water turf do not sufficiently water your trees. During the drought, trees should be given a higher priority than lawns. Lawns can be replaced in a matter of months whereas a 20 year old tree will take 20 years to replace. 
1 For the first three years, young trees need slow, deep watering during the dry weather. 2  Water near the base of the tree with a slow soak by: 3  Setting your hose on a slow trickle near the base of the tree. 4  Leave the hose on trickle for about 2 hours. 5  Or, place a bucket with a small hole (1/8) drilled near the bottom. Young Trees. 1  For the first three years, young trees need slow, deep watering during the dry weather. 2  Water near the base of the tree with a slow soak by: 3  Setting your hose on a slow trickle near the base of the tree. 4  Leave the hose on trickle for about 2 hours.