Sugar is the No. 2 ingredient in a bottle of Gatorade after water. Sugar can mean a variety of different things when it comes to structure, but in Gatorade it's a disaccharide known as sucrose, which also happens to be the same type of sugar found in your sugar bowl. If you're an endurance athlete, sports drinks are a good way to rehydrate and get a little energy boost. Gatorade is a well-known brand of sports drink. The carbs in Gatorade that give you that boost include sugar and dextrose, both simple sugars.
(The % sugar of a given drink is equivalent to how many grams of sugar it contains per 100 milliliters of fluid. For example, Gatorade contains about 14 grams of sugar in a 240-milliliter serving, which is about 6 grams per 100 milliliters, or 6%.). Gatorade is 6% sugar, whereas Powerade is 8% sugar. Since both fall within the generally recommended 4-8% range, either drink is acceptable according to this criterion. The sodium content of Gatorade is about 450 milligrams per liter; for Powerade, it is 225 mg/L. Thus Gatorade does a somewhat better job of replacing the sodium lost in sweat.
There are also suggestions that drinks with multiple types of sugars may deliver sugar more quickly than drinks that contain glucose alone (;), but further research is needed to test this idea. Here again, it's a toss-up between Gatorade and Powerade. The sodium content of Gatorade is about 450 milligrams per liter; for Powerade, it is 225 mg/L. Thus Gatorade does a somewhat better job of replacing the sodium lost in sweat.
If the amount of sugar in Gatorade is your primary concern, the manufacturer also offers a lower-calorie version of the original beverage, which gives you the same amount of sodium and potassium but only 20 calories per 8-oz. serving. A single 8-oz. serving of original Gatorade -- now called Gatorade Perform 02 -- contains 50 calories and gives you 14 g of sugar.
Gatorade is a sports drink marketed to both professional athletes and people who make strenuous exercise a part of their lifestyle. Gatorade's nutrition facts label boasts two important electrolytes -- sodium and potassium -- vital to keeping body fluids in balance. However, Gatorade also contains sugar, which makes up the sum total of its carbohydrate count. A single 8-oz. serving of original Gatorade -- now called Gatorade Perform 02 -- contains 50 calories and gives you 14 g of sugar.
Structure of Dextrose. Dextrose is the third ingredient in Gatorade and is an even simpler sugar than sucrose. Dextrose is a monosaccharide -- meaning it's made up of one sugar unit -- and is another name for the simple molecule glucose. Glucose is your body's preferred source of energy. If you're an endurance athlete, sports drinks are a good way to rehydrate and get a little energy boost. Gatorade is a well-known brand of sports drink. The carbs in Gatorade that give you that boost include sugar and dextrose, both simple sugars.
5. Manufactured by the same company that makes Gatorade, this beverage has only 10 calories per 8 oz serving. There are 2 g of sugar, which come from sucrose syrup and sucralose or Splenda. This beverage is caffeine free and has 35 mg of sodium. Gatorade comes in a very wide range of flavors. The sugar in Gatorade comes from a combination of high fructose corn syrup and sucrose syrup. This beverage is caffeine free and has 110 mg of sodium. Additional ingredients in Gatorade include 30 mg of potass
The “Good” of Gatorade. When you exercise, it’s important to stay hydrated. While water is the most logical form of hydration, sports drinks like Gatorade contain sugar and electrolytes like sodium and potassium. Sports drinks can help replace what we lose during longer duration exercise, especially in the heat. Make Your Own Sports Drink! 