The hematocrit blood test determines the percentage of red blood cells (RBC's) in the blood. Blood is composed mainly of red blood cells and white blood cells suspended in an almost clear fluid called serum. The hematocrit test indicates the percentage of blood by volume that is composed of red blood cells. The condition called  anemia  results from having too few red blood cells. Anemia causes a variety of symptoms. The hematocrit is a basic test that can tell a physician a lot about a person's health.
The hematocrit is the proportion, by volume, of the blood that consists of red blood cells. The hematocrit (hct) is expressed as a percentage. For example, a hematocrit of 25% means that there are 25 milliliters of red blood cells in 100 milliliters of blood. Normal range for hematocrit is different between the sexes and is approximately 45% to 52% for men and 37% to 48% for women.
Your hematocrit (HCT) shows whether you have a normal amount of red blood cells, too many, or too few. To measure your HCT, your blood sample is spun at a high speed to separate the red blood cells. This test measures how much of your blood is made up of red blood cells. Normal blood contains white blood cells, red blood cells, platelets, and the fluid portion called plasma. The word hematocrit means to separate. In this test, your red blood cells are separated from the rest of your blood so they can be measured.
Normal Hematocrit Levels-Low, High Hematocrit. Hematocrit is a part of the total volume of the blood of the body that composes the red blood cells. A Complete Blood Count Test is conducted in order to determine if you either have low hematocrit or high hematocrit. 
Results are given as a percentage. Normal hematocrit values are different for men, women, and children. Normal values are: 36 to 48 percent for women. 42 to 52 percent for men. 30 to 44 percent for children, depending upon age. If your HCT is high, it may mean your body is making too many red blood cells. This test measures how much of your blood is made up of red blood cells. Normal blood contains white blood cells, red blood cells, platelets, and the fluid portion called plasma. The word hematocrit means to separate. In this test, your red blood cells are separated from the rest of your blood so they can be measured.
Hematocrit (Hct) Levels. This is the ratio of the volume of red cells to the volume of whole blood. Normal range for hematocrit is different between the sexes and is approximately 45% to 52% for men and 37% to 48% for women. This is usually measured by spinning down a sample of blood in a test tube, which causes the red blood cells to pack at the bottom of the tube
Normal values for the hematocrit test vary according to age, sex, pregnancy, altitude where people live, and even vary slightly between various testing methods. The following are reported ranges of normal hematocrit levels: 1  Newborns: 55%-68%. 2  One (1) week of age: 47%-65%. 3  One (1) month of age: 37%-49%. 
The hematocrit (Ht or HCT, British English spelling haematocrit), also known as packed cell volume (PCV) or erythrocyte volume fraction (EVF), is the volume percentage (%) of red blood cells in blood. It is normally 45% for men and 40% for women. 
Hematocrit is a measure of the percentage of red blood cells to the whole capacity of blood and it is one of the most commonly used of all diagnostic lab measures. The hematocrit normal range differs dependent on sex and age of the individual. Hematocrit level is a technique, which is used to discover the sum of red blood cells accessible in the blood. This is the main technique to identify the percentage of hemoglobin accessible in the body. The Hematocrit level differs for men and women and this will be altered for both of them.