As of 2012, you are allowed to gift $13,000 without paying taxes or declaring the gift in your income tax statement. A married couple can each gift the $13,000, so that they gift to one person $26,000. Gifts can be in the form of money or personal property, whose value is determined by using IRS rule. 
Gifts of $13,000 or less to individuals are not subject to gift tax regulations. This means that you can give $13,000 a year to your child and another $13,000 a year to that child's partner for a total of $26,000 without having to worry about gift taxes. No Repayment. No matter how much money you gift someone for a down payment, there is one rule that you must follow: The money you are giving must be a gift. You can't expect the borrowers to repay you.
1 If you put down 20% or more, it can all be from a gift. 2  If you put down less than 20%, part of the money can be a gift, but part must come from your own funds. 3  This minimum contribution varies by loan type. 4  You can only use gift money on primary residences and second homes. 1 If you put down less than 20%, part of the money can be a gift, but part must come from your own funds. 2  This minimum contribution varies by loan type. 3
Type of Loan. The amount of your down payment that can be gifted depends on the type of loan you’re getting. Unless the gift you’re getting will be at least 20 percent of the home’s value, many lenders will require you to provide at least a 5 percent down payment from your own funds. For example, if you're buying a $200,000 home, you will have to put down at least $10,000 of your own money. Any gifts you receive just add on to that down payment. Government-insured FHA loans, on the other hand, allow a third party to gift 100 percent of the down payment.
TERMINOLOGY. The down payment for an FHA mortgage can be 100% gift funds. This is one of the key benefits to the FHA program. Verification of the source of gift money is not required. 
If you want to give a down payment gift to a relative purchasing a home with a conventional mortgage loan -- one not insured by a government agency -- there might be a limit to how much you can contribute. Typically, borrowers must use their own funds to cover at least 5 percent of the down payment. No Repayment. No matter how much money you gift someone for a down payment, there is one rule that you must follow: The money you are giving must be a gift. You can't expect the borrowers to repay you.
Gift Money and Your Loan Type. One thing to consider is that the amount of gift money you use in relation to how much of your own money you put down may impact what kind of loan you can get. 1 If you put down less than 20%, part of the money can be a gift, but part must come from your own funds. 2  This minimum contribution varies by loan type. 3  You can only use gift money on primary residences and second homes.
You don’t have to worry about family loans being subject to gift tax rules if: 1  You lend a child $10,000 or less, and the child does not use the money for investments, such as stocks or bonds. 2  You lend a child $100,000 or less, and the child’s net investment income is not more than $1,000 for the year. Loans that are really gifts. Some people may think they can give large amounts of money to their children and say it’s a loan, thus avoiding the hassle of filing a gift tax return. The IRS is wise to that. The loan must be legal and enforceable, or the whole thing may be deemed a gift
Not everyone receiving a cash gifts want to make a 20% downpayment, though. Cash gifts are also allowed for low-downpayment mortgages including the FHA purchase mortgage, which requires a 3.5% downpayment; and the Conventional 97 mortgage from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac which requires just 3% down. Next, you'll want to write a check to the home buyer for the exact dollar amount specified in the gift letter you've written. Photocopy the check. Keep one copy for your records and give one copy to the buyer -- the lender will want to see it as part of the process.