Capillary Circulation. Capillary circulation is the part of your circulatory system where oxygen, nutrients, and waste pass between your blood and parts of your body. Capillaries are very small blood vessels. They connect the arterial and venous circulatory subsystems. The importance of capillaries lies in their very thin walls.
The circulatory system is often seen to comprise both the cardiovascular system, which distributes blood, and the lymphatic system, which circulates lymph. These are two separate systems. The passage of lymph for example takes a lot longer than that of blood. Blood is a fluid consisting of plasma, red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets that is circulated by the heart through the vertebrate vascular system, carrying oxygen and nutrients to and waste materials away from all body tissues. In contrast, oxygen and nutrients diffuse across the blood vessel layers and enter interstitial fluid, which carries oxygen and nutrients to the target cells, and carbon dioxide and wastes in the opposite direction. The other component of the circulatory system, the lymphatic system, is open.
Blood is made up of red and white cells, plasma and platelets. Red blood cells carry nutrients and oxygen to the body's cells. Red blood cells are come from bone marrow. White blood cells help the body fight diseases and infections. The white cells are made in the bone marrow. Plasma is the watery part of the blood. Blood Vessels: Arteries: These are large blood vessels that take oxygenated blood away from the heart to be distributed throughout the body. The aorta is the body's largest artery. Veins: These blood vessels take deoxygenated blood from around the body back to the heart and lungs to be oxygenated. Capillaries: These tiny blood vessels are where the exchange of oxygen and nutrients take place. The nutrients and oxygen are exchanged for wastes that are taken from the cells
Arterial Circulation. Arterial circulation is the part of your circulatory system that involves arteries, like the aorta and pulmonary arteries. Arteries are blood vessels that carry blood away from your heart. (The exception is the coronary arteries, which supply your heart muscle with oxygen-rich blood.). Capillary circulation is the part of your circulatory system where oxygen, nutrients, and waste pass between your blood and parts of your body. Capillaries are very small blood vessels. They connect the arterial and venous circulatory subsystems. The importance of capillaries lies in their very thin walls.
As the heart beats, it pumps blood through a system of blood vessels, called the circulatory system. The vessels are elastic tubes that carry blood to every part of the body. Arteries. The arteries (red) carry oxygen and nutrients away from your heart, to your body's tissues. The veins (blue) take oxygen-poor blood back to the heart. 1  Arteries begin with the aorta, the large artery leaving the heart. 2  They carry oxygen-rich blood away from the heart to all of the
The aorta carries oxygenated blood to the body. The pulmonary artery carries deoxygenated blood to the lungs and it is the only artery to carry deoxygenated blood. There are two veins associated with the heart. The vena cava, or great vein, carries deoxygenated blood back to the heart from the body. The pulmonary vein is the only vein to carry oxygenated blood which is on its way to the heart from the lungs.The right atrium and ventricle only has deoxygenated blood while the left atrium and ventricle contains oxygenated blood.
The circulatory system is the system in the body that is  responsible for the transportation of materials throughout the  body. Red blood cells move through the circulatory … system deliver  oxygen and water to the cells in the body and takes away waste  products. Hemoglobin is the part of the red blood cell that carries oxygen. Hemoglobin is a protein that has iron on it, and this iron is what the oxygen binds to. This is why iron defi … ciency can result in anemia.