Then, you’ll drink 75 g of a very sugary mixture. Every hour for the next 2 hours, your blood glucose level will be measured. If your blood glucose level is elevated (above normal) one or more times during the test, you have gestational diabetes. About six weeks after delivery, your doctor will check your blood glucose level to see if it’s in the normal range again. However, because you had gestational diabetes, you’re at a higher risk (a 33-50% increased risk) for having it again in another pregnancy.
One hour later, you'll have a blood test to measure your blood sugar level. A blood sugar level below 130 to 140 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL), or 7.2 to 7.8 millimoles per liter (mmol/L), is usually considered normal on a glucose challenge test, although this may vary by clinic or lab. If you're at average risk of gestational diabetes, you'll likely have a screening test during your second trimester — between 24 and 28 weeks of pregnancy.
If your blood sugar level is higher than normal, it only means you have a higher risk of gestational diabetes. You'll need a glucose tolerance test to determine if you have the condition. 1  Follow-up glucose tolerance testing. 2  You'll fast overnight, then have your blood sugar level measured. If you're at average risk of gestational diabetes, you'll likely have a screening test during your second trimester — between 24 and 28 weeks of pregnancy.
Pregnant women who have never had diabetes before but who have high blood glucose (sugar) levels during pregnancy are said to have gestational diabetes. According to a 2014 analysis by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the prevalence of gestational diabetes is as high as 9.2%. When you have gestational diabetes, your pancreas works overtime to produce insulin, but the insulin does not lower your blood glucose levels. Although insulin does not cross the placenta, glucose and other nutrients do. So extra blood glucose goes through the placenta, giving the baby high blood glucose levels
Gestational Diabetes. Gestational diabetes is a condition characterized by high blood glucose (sugar) levels that are discovered during pregnancy. It is defined as carbohydrate intolerance. About 3 percent to 5 percent of all pregnant women in the U.S. are diagnosed with gestational diabetes. 
If your blood sugar level first becomes too high when you are pregnant, you have gestational diabetes. It usually goes back to normal after the baby is born. High blood sugar can cause problems for you and your baby. Your baby may grow too large, which can cause problems during delivery. This keeps your blood sugar level in a target range. When you are pregnant, the placenta makes hormones that can make it harder for insulin to work. This is called insulin resistance. A pregnant woman can get diabetes when her pancreas cannot make enough insulin to keep her blood sugar levels with
A normal fasting blood glucose target range for an individual without diabetes is 70-100 mg/dL (3.9-5.6 mmol/L). The American Diabetes Association recommends a fasting plasma glucose level of 70–130 mg/dL (3.9-7.2 mmol/L) and after meals less than 180 mg/dL (10 mmol/L). Sara: Your doctor wants test you for type 2 diabetes. A normal fasting blood glucose target range for an individual without diabetes is 70-100 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL) or 3.9-5.6 millimoles per liter (mmol/L).
QUESTION: I was diagnosed with gestational diabetes. I have been testing for 3 weeks now and I have yet to have a bad sugar test. They are always within range no matter what I eat. The only day it was high was when I was really sick and ate nothing all day except cough drops for a sore throat and was in bed all day. If the results of the test indicate high blood sugar levels, then your diagnosis is gestational diabetes. I do not know whether you run through this test or not. 2.
Find out what doctors look for and how ultrasound exams are done. Gestational diabetes is a high blood sugar condition that some women get during pregnancy. Between 2 and 5 percent of expectant mothers develop this condition, making it one of the most common health problems during pregnancy. 