Tubal ligation is surgery to close or block a woman's fallopian tubes so eggs released from the ovaries cannot enter the uterus and sperm cannot reach the egg. The procedure is done to prevent pregnancy. It is also called female sterilization surgery, or getting your tubes tied.. The fallopian tubes may be closed by: 1  Tying the tubes together. 2  Sealing them closed using a ring or clip. Tubal ligation is intended to be a permanent form of birth control. However, some women may regret their decision and later wish to become pregnant. In these cases, surgery to reverse the procedure may be an option. This surgery is called tubal ligation reversal, tubal reanastomosis, or tubal reversal.
For women, the chances of getting pregnant after sterilization are similar to the chances for men. Having a tubal ligation or having your “tubes tied” closes the fallopian tubes, through cutting, burning, or blocking with clips, bands, or rings. In addition, it prevents sperm from reaching the fallopian tube. A tubal ligation is around 99.5% effective at preventing pregnancy. There are a couple of important factors to consider when thinking about surgical sterilization to reduce your chances of getting pregnant.
A woman can get pregnant if a man’s sperm reaches one of her eggs (ova). Contraception tries to stop this happening by keeping the egg and sperm apart or by stopping egg production. One method of contraception is female sterilisation. At a glance: facts about female sterilisation. 1  In most cases, female sterilisation is more than 99% effective, and only one woman in 200 will become pregnant in her lifetime after having it done. 2  You don't have to think about it every day, or every time you have sex, so it doesn't interrupt or affect your sex life.
With hysteroscopic sterilisation, there is a small risk of pregnancy even after your tubes have been blocked. Research collected by NICE has shown that possible complications after fallopian implants can include: 1  pain after the operation – in one study, nearly eight out of 10 women reported pain afterwards. At a glance: facts about female sterilisation. 1  In most cases, female sterilisation is more than 99% effective, and only one woman in 200 will become pregnant in her lifetime after having it done. 2  You don't have to think about it every day, or every time you have sex, so it doesn't interrupt or affect your sex life.
But you can still get your partner pregnant until your sperm count is zero. You must use another method of birth control until you have a follow-up sperm count test 2 months after the vasectomy (or after 10 to 20 ejaculations over a shorter period of time). It usually takes several months after a vasectomy for all remaining sperm to be ejaculated or reabsorbed. You must use another method of birth control until you have a semen sample tested and it shows a zero sperm count. Otherwise, you can still get your partner pregnant.
Sometimes, even when tests have been done that show that there is no sperm in the semen, a man can later become potent again, and pregnancy can occur. The chances of this happening however, are very low. Pregnancy after tubal ligation. Tubal Ligation is in most cases, effective to permanently prevent pregnancy. However, it is not 100 percent effective, and it is a little less effective than vasectomy. 
Asker's rating. Report Abuse. If you had your tubes tied there is a very small possibility that you could have gotten pregnant. But if you get a positive on a pregnancy test you should go to the doctor immediately because there is a high probability of ectopic pregnancy if you are pregnant and that is very dangerous. At least that's what my doctor told me. Esmerelda · 8 years ago.
Male sterilization reversals have a higher success rate. If the time between the initial vasectomy and the reversal procedure is less than three years, the chances of pregnancy are about 76 percent. If it's between three and eight years, the rate is 50 to 75 percent. See what you need to do before getting pregnant if you have a thyroid problem, whether it's hypothyroidism or the less common h... Preconception checkup: Questions you'll be asked at your visit. See a list of the questions you'll be asked when you see your doctor or midwife at a preconception checkup.
Sterilized women have a slightly tougher time reversing surgery and getting pregnant. Cumulative pregnancy rates (the percentage of women who get pregnant eventually) following reversal of tubal ligation vary between 30 and 90 percent. One of the most important factors is the woman's age: Women younger than 37 years are more likely to get pregnant than women 37 years and older. See what you need to do before getting pregnant if you have a thyroid problem, whether it's hypothyroidism or the less common h... Preconception checkup: Questions you'll be asked at your visit. See a list of the questions you'll be asked when you see your doctor or midwife at a preconception checkup.