For example, European primrose (Primula vulgaris) seeds normally take 2 to 4 weeks to germinate if the conditions are right, but may germinate more quickly (in 2 or 3 days) if placed in a small pot of damp compost and placed in a polythene bag indoors at 15 - 20 degrees C. But this is not appropriate for all species. It depends on which seed you have. Generally seeds take between 7 and 14 days to germinate. There are of course exceptions, some varieties can germinate within 2 days if con … ditions are right, where as others can take literally years to germinate-even if conditions are right. 15 people found this useful.
Generally, watermelons reach harvest 65 to 90 days after sowing. As might be expected, smaller varieties will usually be ready before larger ones, but not always. Some early icebox-size watermelons, of 2 to 4 pounds, Early Midget, Garden Baby, Golden Midget and Little Baby Flower, mature in 65 to 70 days. Planting Watermelons. The ideal date to plant watermelons varies according to the climate of the region. To produce the sugar necessary for sweet fruit, the melons need hot weather. Seedlings should not be transplanted until three to four weeks after the last average frost date in the spring.
Juicy, sweet watermelon is truly a summer treat. Watermelons require a long, hot summer in order to reach maturity. In the areas with short summers, start watermelon seeds indoors and transplant outside after all danger of frost has passed. In areas with a long summer watermelon can be started right in the garden bed.
You do have to germinate watermelon seeds before planting them. Simply sow them 1/2 inch deep and place under a consistent light source. For more information, check out this information from Burpee: http://www.burpee.com/fruit-plants/melon/watermelon/all-about-watermelons-article10022.html. 
It depends on the variety. Some varieties take 90 days to produce fruit from seed, others take 120 days. Bloom is also influenced by the amount of water/food/sunlight th … e plant receives. Also, it's a curcubit, so it has male and female flowers. Male flowers tend to form first and these do not produce. 
Boost Temperatures. The warmer the soil, the faster watermelon seeds germinate. For example, it takes approximately three days for a watermelon seed to germinate in 90 degree Fahrenheit conditions, and approximately 10 days when temperatures are at 70 degrees. Boosting the soil's fertility levels before planting watermelon seeds ensures quick germination and seedling establishment. For the best results with watermelons, use 3 pounds of 5-10-10 fertilizer for every 100 square feet of planting space.
Step 3. Cover pots with plastic wrap and place in a warm room to germinate---approximately 75 to 80 degrees Fahrenheit. Check daily for sprouts and to ensure the potting mix is still moist. Watermelons usually take 7 to 14 days to germinate but check seed package for exact timing for the variety you are growing. Watermelons require a long, hot summer in order to reach maturity. In the areas with short summers, start watermelon seeds indoors and transplant outside after all danger of frost has passed. In areas with a long summer watermelon can be started right in the garden bed.
Red watermelons are most prevalent and take five days for germination when temperatures are in the mid or upper 70s Fahrenheit. Seeds planted in higher temperatures, like the low or mid 80s, make take only four days to sprout into a seedling. Seedless Watermelon Germination. All seedless watermelons are hybrids and take the longest time to mature. The seeds germinate between seven and 14 days and they must be kept between 75 and 85 degrees.
Simply scoop the seeds out of a watermelon, rinse them under water to remove any fruit pieces or fruit juices, and let them air-dry on a paper towel. In general, watermelon seeds stay viable for approximately four years. However, the longer you wait, the lower your chances of optimal germination. Boosting the soil's fertility levels before planting watermelon seeds ensures quick germination and seedling establishment. For the best results with watermelons, use 3 pounds of 5-10-10 fertilizer for every 100 square feet of planting space.