Asexual reproduction in liverworts: a caducous phylloid germinating. Asexual reproduction is a mode of reproduction by which offspring arise from a single organism, and inherit the genes of that parent only; it does not involve the fusion of gametes and almost never changes the number of chromosomes. Vegetative reproduction is a type of asexual reproduction found in plants where new individuals are formed without the production of seeds or spores by meiosis or syngamy.
Asexual reproduction is the primary form of reproduction for single-celled organisms such as the archaebacteria, eubacteria, and protists. Vegetative reproduction is a type of asexual reproduction found in plants where new individuals are formed without the production of seeds or spores by meiosis or syngamy.
Internal budding or endodyogeny is a process of asexual reproduction, favoured by parasites such as Toxoplasma gondii. It involves an unusual process in which two daughter cells are produced inside a mother cell, which is then consumed by the offspring prior to their separation. Saccharomyces cerevisiae reproducing by budding. Budding is a form of asexual reproduction in which a new organism develops from an outgrowth or bud due to cell division at one particular site. The new organism remains attached as it grows, separating from the parent organism only when it is mature, leaving behind scar tissue
Most unicellular organisms, and a few multicellular organisms, use cell division to reproduce, in a process called asexual reproduction. In asexual reproduction, one organism produces one or more new organisms that are identical to itself and that live independently of it. Binary fission is the form of asexual reproduction occurring in prokaryotes. Binary fission occurs when the parent organism splits in two, producing two completely independent daughter cells. Genetically, the daughter cells are exactly like the parent cell.
Definition of ASEXUAL for Kids. : formed by, characterized by, or being a process of reproduction (as the dividing of one cell into two cells) that does not involve the combining of male and female germ cells. — asex·u·al·ly \-wə-lē\ adverb
Asexual reproduction. Asexual reproduction is a mode of reproduction by which offspring arise from a single parent, and inherit the genes of that parent only; it is reproduction which almost always does not involve meiosis, ploidy reduction, or fertilization. 
ALL CELLS COME FROM PRE-EXISTING CELLS. * when offspring are produced from a single parent, it is called asexual reproduction * the offspring are identical to the parent! By cell division, one cell divides to become two. This process is used by some organisms, such as protozoans, to reproduce. 