Fourteenth Amendment. The Fourteenth Amendment to the U. S. Constitution reads: Section 1. All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside. By marriage, the Husband and Wife became one person in law, and that person was the husband. Thus, the Framers' original understanding of the Fourteenth Amendment has not provided a useful yardstick to measure the Supreme Court's interpretation of the Due Process and Equal Protection Clauses.
The last two clauses of the first section of the amendment disable a State from depriving not merely a citizen of the United States, but any person, whoever he may be, of life, liberty, or property without due process of law, or from denying to him the equal protection of the laws of the State. The Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment also incorporates most of the provisions in the Bill of Rights, which were originally applied against only the federal government, and applies them against the states.
The due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment is used by the  courts to apply the Bill of Rights to the states. The Fourteenth Amendment, adopted on July 9, 1868 (following the Civil War), applied the priciples of the First Amendment and other parts of the Bill of Rights (applicable to … Federal government) to State governments.
The process of using the Fourteenth Amendment to apply the Bill of Rights to the states is called _____? The process of using the Fourteenth Amendment to apply the Bill of Rights to the states is called _____. A. the plus process B. the plus doctrine C. incorporation D. rights plus. Follow. 1 answer 1. The process of using the Fourteenth Amendment to apply the Bill of Rights to the states is called _____. A. the plus process. B. the plus doctrine. C. incorporation.
The Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution each contain a due process clause. Due process deals with the administration of justice and thus the due process clause acts as a safeguard from arbitrary denial of life, liberty, or property by the Government outside the sanction of law. 
Note that there are several possible positions that could be taken with respect to the incorporation debate. First, one could argue that the Fourteenth Amendment (either through the P & I Clause or the Due Process Clause) made the specific provisions of the Bill of Rights enforceable against the states and no more. This was the view argued for by Justice Black. Introduction The debate over whether the Fourteenth Amendment makes applicable against the states all of the protections of the Bill of Rights is one of the most important and longest-lasting debates involving interpretation of the U. S. Constitution.
The Fourteenth Amendment (Amendment XIV) to the United States Constitution was adopted on July 9, 1868, as one of the Reconstruction Amendments. The amendment addresses citizenship rights and equal protection of the laws, and was proposed in response to issues related to former slaves following the American Civil War. The Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment also incorporates most of the provisions in the Bill of Rights, which were originally applied against only the federal government, and applies them against the states.
No state shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any state deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws. 
The 14th amendment is not by its terms applicable to the federal government. Actions by the federal government, however, that classify individuals in a discriminatory manner will, under similar circumstances, violate the due process of the fifth amendment. The Equal Protection Clause of the 14th amendment of the U.S. Constitution prohibits states from denying any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.
The process of using the Fourteenth Amendment to apply the Bill of Rights to state governments is called  incorporation .. The process the US Supreme Court has chosen to follow is called selective incorporation, because the Bill of Rights is being applied to the states on Clause or Amendment at a time. More Information. Incorporation, occurs by way of a decision of the Supreme Court of the United States. The Fourteenth Amendment, adopted on July 9, 1868 (following the Civil War), applied the priciples of the First Amendment and other parts of the Bill of Rights (applicable to … Federal government) to State governments.