As an EAD is valid only for two years, an application to renew your EAD must be filed at least 4 months ahead of the date of expiration of your existing EAD and you need to file Form I-765 to renew your expiring work permit. You must remember that there is no separate application to apply for renewal and Form I-765 that is used to apply for an employment authorization document only must be filed to renew your existing EAD. You need to file this petition at the right time as the USCIS might take around 4 months to process your petition.
Greetings. You can apply to renew your EAD up to six months before your current one expires, but a lot of people opt not to apply that early because (1) in the vast majority of cases, the EAD is issued within 90 days, and (2) an EAD is valid for one year from the date it is approved, not when the previous one expired. Other than that I agree with you, to apply for EAD renewal 3 months before the old ones expires is what I would do as well. Although I received a RFE for my AOS my EAD was approved and sent to me within 11 weeks.
Timing for Renewal - 120 Days Before Expiration. Applicants for EAD and AP extensions can request to renew the EAD and/or AP up to 120 days prior to the expiration dates of the EAD and/or AP. Adjudications in these cases can take up to 90 days, and delays are possible. Even if one files the I-765 form before the EAD expiration date, the work authorization does not continue beyond the expiration date, unless the renewal I-765 is approved. It is recommended, therefore, that renewals be filed at the earliest allowable time.
My current problem is that I heard that you can file your renewal EAD application for 90 days prior to your current EAD expiration date. But I saw the information on the USCIS website stated that.  Renewal EAD: You should apply for a renewal EAD six months before your original EAD expires.. EAD. I therefore decided to renew my EAD card in advance. am so worried now because I am afraid the USCIS might not let me renew it now because it is too early. I would like to ask you guys opinion!! Other than that I agree with you, to apply for EAD renewal 3 months before the old ones expires is what I would do as well. Although I received a RFE for my AOS my EAD was approved and sent to me within 11 weeks.
If you use an EAD for employment, you need to renew it every year. USCIS revised its policy in 2008 that EAD renewals cannot be filed more than 120 days prior to its expiration date. All EAD renewals filed too early will be rejected. If you have a pending I-485, your I-140 has been approved, and a visa number is not available to you, you are eligible for employment authorization document (EAD) that is valid for two years. AOS applicants whose priority dates are current will continue to receive 1-year EAD's.
How soon can you apply for renewal EAD before its expiration? Hi, My EAD expires in July. I want to know if the 120 day rule still applies before I can renew? I tried to find this in USCIS website but could not find it. Can someone point me to that link? Also, is it 120 calendar days or business days
A. Applicants for EAD and AP extensions can request to renew the EAD and/or AP up to 120 days prior to the expiration dates of the EAD and/or AP. Adjudications in these cases can take up to 90 days, and delays are possible. It is important to be mindful of the renewal timing and to track this date carefully. Even if one files the I-765 form before the EAD expiration date, the work authorization does not continue beyond the expiration date, unless the renewal I-765 is approved.
The EAD may be renewed by filing the I-765 with the USCIS. This must be accompanied by the applicable filing fee (if any), and supporting documents. Individuals with I-485s filed after August 17, 2007 do not need to pay an EAD filing fee for EAD renewals. While having this work authorization can be positive, the issuance of the EAD does not mean that the USCIS has reviewed the I-485 case in detail. The EAD issuance is largely a routine administrative matter, based on a proper filing and the existence of a pending I-485 application.
The EAD renewal can be requested as much as 120 days before the expiration date of the most recent EAD. It is important to be conscious of the EAD expiration date. Renewals should be filed in advance, but not prior to the allowed 120-day period. EADs take approximately 90 days to process. While having this work authorization can be positive, the issuance of the EAD does not mean that the USCIS has reviewed the I-485 case in detail. The EAD issuance is largely a routine administrative matter, based on a proper filing and the existence of a pending I-485 application.