Provisional tax is not a separate tax. It is a method of paying tax due, to ensure the taxpayer does not pay large amounts on assessment, as the tax load is spread over the relevant year of assessment. It requires the taxpayers to pay at least two amounts in advance, during the year of assessment, which are based on estimated taxable income. With reference to the definition of a provisional taxpayer in Paragraph 1 of the Fourth Schedule of the Income Tax Act No.58 of 1962, a provisional taxpayer is:
PROVISIONAL TAX. Reference to the Act: paragraph 1, definition: provisional tax. Provisional tax forms part of the Pay-as-you-Earn (PAYE) system of tax collection. It is not a separate tax but merely a way of paying your income tax during the tax year the income is earned. It prevents large amounts being payable on assessment as it spreads the tax load over the tax year.
Provisional Tax Law & Legal Definition. Provisional tax means tax paid in advance, in the form of installments for the following year's income tax. A provisional tax is calculated on the basis of actual income derived in the preceding year and the estimated taxable income. The amount that is paid as provisional tax will be set off against the final tax liability at the end of the tax year. Hence, provisional tax is not a separate tax but it is simply a way of paying income tax during the tax year the income is earned.
A provisional taxpayer is defined in paragraph 1 of the Fourth Schedule of the Income Tax Act, No.58 of 1962, as any 1  –. person (other than a company) who derives income, other than remuneration or an allowance or advance as mentioned in section 8(1); 2  company; or. With reference to the definition of a provisional taxpayer in Paragraph 1 of the Fourth Schedule of the Income Tax Act No.58 of 1962, a provisional taxpayer is:
Originally, provisional tax is an advance payment of tax and it forms part of the pay-as-you-earn (PAYE) system of tax collection. The amount that is paid as provisional tax will be set off against the final tax liability at the end of the tax year. Hence, provisional tax is not a separate tax but it is simply a way of paying income tax during the tax year the income is earned.
Tāke tārewa. Provisional tax is not a separate tax but a way of paying your income tax as the income is received through the year. You pay instalments of income tax during the year, based on what you expect your tax bill to be. The amount of provisional tax you pay is then deducted from your tax bill at the end of the year. If you had income tax of more than $2,500 to pay at the end of any tax year you may have to pay provisional tax for the following year. Watch our short video on income and provisional tax.
DEFINITION of 'Provisional Income'. The level of income that is used to determine whether a taxpayer is liable for tax on his or her Social Security benefits, and by how much. Provisional income is calculated by making certain adjustments to the taxpayer's gross income. The formula for determining provisional income is as follows: Provisional income = gross income + tax-free interest + 50% of Social Security benefits + any tax-free fringe benefits and exclusions-adjustments to income (except for the student loan deduction, tuition and fees deduction or domestic production-activities deduction). Next Up.
Provisional tax is not a separate tax. It is a method of paying tax due, to ensure the taxpayer does not pay large amounts on assessment, as the tax load is spread over the relevant year of assessment. It requires the taxpayers to pay at least two amounts in advance, during the year of assessment, which are based on estimated taxable income. A provisional taxpayer is defined in paragraph 1 of the Fourth Schedule of the Income Tax Act, No.58 of 1962, as any 1  –. person (other than a company) who derives income, other than remuneration or an allowance or advance as mentioned in section 8(1); 2  company; or.