Pleura (definition of). Pleura (from the Greek word pleuron, pleurón meaning, rib or) side is that part of the mesothelium surrounding the. Lungs it consists of two; layers an outer one attached to the chest wall known as the parietal, pleura and an inner, one properly identified as the visceral. pleura 
The airways resemble an upside-down tree, which is why this part of the respiratory system is often called the bronchial tree. Large airways are held open by semiflexible, fibrous connective tissue called cartilage. Smaller airways are supported by the lung tissue that surrounds and is attached to them. The walls of the smaller airways have a thin, circular layer of smooth muscle. The airway muscle can dilate or constrict, thus changing airway size. At the end of each bronchiole are thousands of small air sacs (alveoli). 
A major organ of the respiratory system, each lung houses structures of both the conducting and respiratory zones. The main function of the lungs is to perform the exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide with air from the atmosphere. To this end, the lungs exchange respiratory gases across a very large epithelial surface area—about 70 square meters—that is highly permeable to gases. The major function of the lungs is to perform gas exchange, which requires blood from the pulmonary circulation. This blood supply contains deoxygenated blood and travels to the lungs where erythrocytes, also known as red blood cells, pick up oxygen to be transported to tissues throughout the body.
» ILD and Mesothelioma. Interstitial lung disease (ILD) is a disease that occurs when scar tissue forms in the interstitium – the space between the lungs' air sacs (alveoli). ILD is also known as interstitial pulmonary fibrosis, pulmonary fibrosis, lung fibrosis or interstitial fibrosis. Interstitial Lung Disease and Mesothelioma. Because asbestosis and malignant mesothelioma are both caused by exposure to asbestos, some people develop both conditions. Like asbestosis, mesothelioma occurs when asbestos fibers subvert the lungs' filtration system and imbed themselves in the tissue of the lungs.
Gas exchange in the lungs and in the alveoli is between the alveolar air and the blood in the pulmonary capillaries. This exchange is a result of increased concentration of oxygen, and a decrease of C02. This process of exchange is done through diffusion. During inhalation or exhalation air is pulled towards or away from the lungs, by several cavities, tubes, and openings. The organs of the respiratory system make sure that oxygen enters our bodies and carbon dioxide leaves our bodies. The respiratory tract is the path of air from the nose to the lungs. It is divided into two sections: Upper Respiratory Tract and the Lower Respiratory Tract. Included in the upper respiratory tract are the Nostrils, Nasal Cavities, Pharynx, Epiglottis, and the Larynx
External respiration is the process of exchanging oxygen and carbon dioxide between the air inside the alveoli and the blood in the capillaries of the lungs. Air inside the alveoli contains a higher partial pressure of oxygen compared to the blood in the capillaries. Conversely, blood in the lungs' capillaries contains a higher partial pressure of carbon dioxide compared to the air in the alveoli.
Pleura of the Lungs. Each lung is enclosed within a cavity that is surrounded by the pleura. The pleura (plural = pleurae) is a serous membrane that surrounds the lung. The right and left pleurae, which enclose the right and left lungs, respectively, are separated by the mediastinum. The major function of the lungs is to perform gas exchange, which requires blood from the pulmonary circulation. This blood supply contains deoxygenated blood and travels to the lungs where erythrocytes, also known as red blood cells, pick up oxygen to be transported to tissues throughout the body.
Posted on March 25, 2014 in Cocaine. Interstitial lung disease is a wide-ranging term that doctors use to describe a group of approximately 200 ailments that involve damage to the interstitium, a part of the lungs surrounding tiny, oxygen-bearing sacs called alveoli. 