Sovereignty is understood in jurisprudence as the full right and power of a governing body to govern itself without any interference from outside sources or bodies. In political theory, sovereignty is a substantive term designating supreme authority over some polity. 
The United States is a sovereign nation. Sovereignty is a simple idea: the United States is an independent nation, governed by the American people, that controls its own affairs. The American people adopted the Constitution and created the government. They elect their representatives and make their own laws
In political science, sovereignty is usually defined as the most essential attribute of the state in the form of its complete self-sufficiency in the frames of a certain territory, that is its supremacy in the domestic policy and independence in the foreign one. International law defines sovereign states as having a permanent population, defined territory, one government, and the capacity to enter into relations with other sovereign states. It is also normally understood that a state is neither dependent on nor subject to any other power or state.
Sovereignty. The supreme, absolute, and uncontrollable power by which an independent state is governed and from which all specific political powers are derived; the intentional independence of a state, combined with the right and power of regulating its internal affairs without foreign interference. 2. Abstractedly, sovereignty resides in the body of the nation and belongs to the people. But these powers are generally exercised by delegation. 3.
sov•er•eign•ty. 1. the quality or state of being sovereign. 2. the status, dominion, power, or authority of a sovereign; royalty. 3. supreme and independent power or authority in a state. 4. rightful status, independence, or prerogative. 5. a sovereign state, community, or political unit. 
Best Answer: A sovereign nation is recognised to have exclusive and full legal control over its own land. It is a legal nation with full authority of its land, politics, laws etc. Yes-the 2003 invasion was an attack on a sovereign nation and illegal under international law. The forgery of dossiers and yellow cake documents do not change the legality. Source(s): The British Foreign Secretary has said in respect of the execution of Saddam Hussein: We have made our position very clear to the Iraqi authorities, but we respect their decision as that of a sovereign nation.. Few would question that Iraq, as a sovereign nation, has the right to do what they have...
Sovereignty is the power of a state to do everything necessary to govern itself, such as making, executing, and applying laws; imposing and collecting taxes; making war and peace; and forming treaties or engaging in commerce with foreign nations. 2. Abstractedly, sovereignty resides in the body of the nation and belongs to the people. But these powers are generally exercised by delegation. 3.
Member states of the United Nations, all of which are sovereign states, though not all sovereign states are necessarily members. In international law, a sovereign state is a nonphysical juridical entity that is represented by one centralized government that has sovereignty over a geographic area. International law defines sovereign states as having a permanent population, defined territory, one government, and the capacity to enter into relations with other sovereign states. It is also normally understood that a state is neither dependent on nor subject to any other power or state.