Hepatitis A vaccine is not licensed for children younger than 1 year of age. For children, the first dose should be given at 12 through 23 months of age. Children who are not vaccinated by 2 years of age can be vaccinated at later visits. For others at risk, the hepatitis A vaccine series may be started whenever a person wishes to be protected or is at risk of infection.
The best way to prevent hepatitis A is through vaccination with the hepatitis A vaccine. Vaccination is recommended for all children age 12 months and older, for travelers to certain countries, and for people at high risk for infection with the virus. The hepatitis A vaccine is given as two shots, six months apart.
For children, the first dose should be given at 12 through 23 months of age. Children who are not vaccinated by 2 years of age can be vaccinated at later visits. For others at risk, the hepatitis A vaccine series may be started whenever a person wishes to be protected or is at risk of infection.
8. Healthy persons between 12 months and 40 years of age should receive the hepatitis A vaccine. Children younger than 12 months, persons 40 years and older, immunocompromised persons, and persons with chronic liver disease or for whom the vaccine is contraindicated, should receive immunoglobulin.
One dose of a monovalent hepatitis A vaccine protects most healthy people aged 1–40 years and should be administered as soon as travel is considered. The monovalent vaccine series should be completed according to the licensed schedule for long-term protection.
The vaccine protects against the virus in more than 95% of cases and provides protection from the virus for at least fifteen years. There are two types of vaccines: one type contains inactivated hepatitis A virus, the other contains a live but attenuated virus.
Adult. 1  All children should receive hepatitis A vaccine at 1 year of age (i.e., 12-23 months). 2  Vaccination should be completed according to the licensed schedules and integrated into the routine childhood vaccination schedule. 3  Children who are not vaccinated by age 2 years can be vaccinated at subsequent visits.
Children who are not vaccinated by 2 years of age can be vaccinated at later visits. For others at risk, the hepatitis A vaccine series may be started whenever a person wishes to be protected or is at risk of infection. For travelers, it is best to start the vaccine series at least one month before traveling.