Native to Asia, the Alocasia genus of elephant ears is available in several varieties, including the striking African Mask (Alocasia amozonica), which has bronze-green leaves with white veins. This variety is often used as a houseplant. Leaves are leathery and grow to 16 inches long. Caladium. Native to tropical America, including Florida and Louisiana, the Caladium genus of elephant ear is all about leaf color. These plants produce leaves up to 1 1/2 feet long in vibrant color patterns. The leaves are a translucent green with blotches of bronze, green, pink, red, silver or white
Save. Elephant ear is a common name for several groups of plants within the family Araceae. The most commonly cultivated types of elephant ear plant come from the genus Colocasia, which are native to Polynesia and southeast Asia. Princess taro (Colocasia affinis &#039;Jenningsii&#039;) is a dwarf variety of elephant ear plant reaching only 1 1/2 to 2 feet in height. Showy and dramatic, this variety has 1-foot-long bluish-gray leaves edged in vibrant green. Bands of green are arranged in a spoke-like pattern radiating from the central vein.
Alocasia (Alocasia spp.). The Alocasia species of elephant ear comes in many varieties with different sizes and colors. The evergreen leaves of the alocasia are heart-or arrow-shaped, measuring 8 to 36 inches depending on variety. This species complements flower gardens as accents or border edging
Elephant ears can be cultivated indoors or contained in outside gardens. Elephant ear plants grow in many species with varying sizes, shapes and colors. Invasive species exist in certain parts of the country, and knowing which species have the potential for aggressive spreading helps when choosing a specific cultivar. The Alocasia species of elephant ear comes in many varieties with different sizes and colors. The evergreen leaves of the alocasia are heart-or arrow-shaped, measuring 8 to 36 inches depending on variety.
Plant Taxonomy of Elephant Ears: Plant taxonomy classifies the most widely known elephant ears, or taro, as Colocasia esculenta. Various cultivars also exist, including types with black leaves (Colocasia esculenta 'Black Magic'). Plant Type: Elephant ears are herbaceous perennials in warm climates (see next entry). Uses for Elephant Ear Plants: In the North, treat elephant ears as annuals. Take advantage of their large, attractive foliage and grow them amongst your other plants, thus varying the texture in a planting bed.
This year I planted four different types of elephant ears in addition to nine large banana plants. Elephant ears make a statement in the garden with their larger than life leaves. In my garden, they are at one end of my pool in front of a picket fence, which is the direct line of sight from our main sitting area. There are three or more types of plants available under the common name of elephant ear. Most commonly found are the colocasia, alocasia, and xanthosoma. Colocasia, also called tara, has large, heart-shaped leaves that range from six inches to eight feet long.
The History of Colocasia. Elephant ear plants have been in cultivation for over 28,000 years as a food crop in equatorial regions including India, China, Southeast Asia, Indonesia, Polynesia, the Mediterranean, Africa, and South America. Colocasias are exotic plants known in the western world by three common names; taro, kalo and the descriptive anatomical name, elephant ear. There are dozens of common names used in other parts of the world including culcas (from which the genus name Colocasia is derived), eddo, imo, dasheen, cocoyam and malombo.
Comments. Submit. Elephant ears, known botanically as Colocasia or Taro, is a genus of tropical perennial plants grown from underground tubers. More than 200 species of colocasia exist and many have a tuber that is grown as a food source. They produce large leaves with ruffled or crenelated edges that resemble an elephant's ear, hence their name. Colocasias grow most vigorously in the summer and fall and produce flowers during the summer. As tropicals, they are extremely sensitive to cold, and hardy only in USDA Zones 9b through 11.