The station is on the Midland Main Line, which runs from London to Nottingham and Sheffield, 118 miles 20 chains (190.30 km) from the London terminus at St Pancras. Just north of the station is Ratcliffe Junction, where the lines to Nottingham and Sheffield (via Derby) diverge. The site of the station is in southwest Nottinghamshire, about 500 metres (0.3 mi) from the border with Leicestershire and 1 kilometre (0.6 mi) from that with Derbyshire, between the stations at Loughborough, Long Eaton and Attenborough.
PAX East takes place at the Boston Convention and Exhibition Center (BCEC), which is conveniently located in the heart of Boston, Massachusetts. Directions & Public Transit Info. 
East Midlands Parkway railway station is located north of Ratcliffe-on-Soar on the Midland Main Line in the East Midlands of England. It provides park and ride facilities for rail passengers on the routes from Leicester to Derby and Nottingham. It is also the closest station to East Midlands Airport, some 4 miles (6.4 km) away, which is reached by an hourly minibus service. The site of the station is in southwest Nottinghamshire, about 500 metres (0.3 mi) from the border with Leicestershire and 1 kilometre (0.6 mi) from that with Derbyshire, between the stations at Loughborough, Long Eaton and Attenborough.
It's Over. Never again will there be a PAX East 2015. It’s over. Done, gone, and exists only in our memories (or perhaps, lingering muscle soreness). Huge thanks to all our exhibitors, Enforcers, and attendees…we hope you all had as much fun as we did! If…
36 Hunter St. E., Hamilton, ON L8N 3W8. Hunter St. E. & James St. From East (Toronto) or West (Brantford): Exit Hwy. 403 to Main St.; east to James St.; south to station. From East (St. Catharines, Niagara): Exit QEW @ Burlington St. west to Wellington St.; south to King St.; west to Hughson St; south to station. 
East Croydon is a railway station and tram stop in Croydon and is in Travelcard Zone 5. It is 10.35 miles (16.56 km) south of London Bridge. It is the largest and busiest station in Croydon. After 1842 the station was jointly administered by the L&BR and the South Eastern Railway (SER), which shared the Brighton main line as far as Redhill. Fares from Croydon to London were common to two railways. In 1846 The L&BR and the L&CR amalgamated to form the London, Brighton and South Coast Railway (LB&SCR), and the two stations were shortly renamed East Croydon and West Croydon to avoid confusi
Note. The nearest railway stations to EAST LONDON UNIVERSITY are listed below. Train services to these stations may vary, you can use our Journey Planner to confirm your travel arrangements. Unless shown otherwise in the Special Offers section, travel between the station shown and EAST LONDON UNIVERSITY is not included in your rail ticket.
Stations services and facilities. See information about a National Rail station's facilities using the full or partial station name or its 3-character code. Our Travelling to / from and via London page also gives you information about travelling around London. Station / code. 