Because 29.2 grams of the total fat in a serving of shredded coconut are saturated, the food should be viewed as an occasional treat. Regularly consuming too much saturated fat can increase your risk of cardiovascular disease, obesity and diabetes. A 1-cup serving of shredded coconut contains 2.68 grams of protein toward the daily goal of 46 grams for women and 56 grams for men. Protein rebuilds cells and helps you maintain healthy tissues and muscles. The same serving of shredded coconut provides 4.2 grams of dietary fiber.
Coconut oil would have to be one of the healthiest oils around even if it’s rich in saturated fats. This is because, the saturated fats present in coconut are MCFA (medium chain fatty acids) which get broken down quickly in the liver and are utilized as body fuel instead of being stored up as “fat”. In fact, the fatty acid present in coconut, lauric acid, is the same as that present in a human mother’s milk. These fatty acids are easy to digest, and they direct end up in the liver where they are burnt up to create body fuel. They are not stored up in the adipose tissue and hence don’t contribute to “fattening”.
Coconut fat is in the form of medium-chain fatty acids which are rarely found in any other “fat” food source. This special group of fatty acids is extremely healthy for the body. In fact, the fatty acid present in coconut, lauric acid, is the same as that present in a human mother’s milk. These fatty acids are easy to digest, and they direct end up in the liver where they are burnt up to create body fuel. They are not stored up in the adipose tissue and hence don’t contribute to “fattening”.
We use coconut oil as one of our main cooking fats, along with local pastured butter and organic olive oil. Coconut oil has a higher smoking point than olive oil and butter, so it's very useful in high heat cooking. It makes the best popcorn when mixed with ghee and you can't beat potatoes fried in coconut oil. Natural coconut oil is made of 90 percent saturated fat (butter, a distant second, contains a comparatively puny 64 percent saturated fat), but the kind of saturated fat matters just as much as the amount.
Halved coconut Photo Credit Geo-grafika/iStock/Getty Images. If you've got a weakness for coconut -- the tropical fruit that adds so much flavor to German chocolate icing, coconut cake and Thai coconut curry -- you might wonder if it's good or bad for you. The fact is, nutritional facts about coconut can be confusing. Often used in high-fat desserts and rich sauces, coconut can seem like a dietary indulgence. But that doesn't mean coconut is always a diet disaster. Fat Facts. There's no denying that coconut is very high in fat. The U.S. Department of Agriculture states that 1 cup of raw coconut contains roughly 24 grams of saturated fat.
The skim milk version of the same beverage has no saturated fat. And coconut milk has just 2 grams of protein. The skim milk version has 16 — about one-third of your recommended daily intake. To add insult to health damage, Starbucks charges 60 cents more for the fatty coconut version. 
1. Coconut. Coconut is by far one of the best fattening foods that you should eat of all. It is not only tasty, but rich in medium chain triglyceride fats that improve your metabolism, clear cholesterol from the #body and blood stream, aid in digestion, assist with fighting off bacteria and warding off depression.
So the question of whether a food is fattening should always be in context of “moderate” intake. Coconut oil is rich in “fat” content, close to 85% of its calories is in the form of saturated fat. In fact, the fatty acid present in coconut, lauric acid, is the same as that present in a human mother’s milk. These fatty acids are easy to digest, and they direct end up in the liver where they are burnt up to create body fuel. They are not stored up in the adipose tissue and hence don’t contribute to “fattening”.
Tags: benefits of coconut, coconut butter, coconut milk. There is nothing more delicious than fresh coconut. But, we are taught to believe that coconut is high in fat so we should avoid it. While coconuts are high in saturated fat, it is from a vegetable origin. The fat in coconut consists of medium-chain triglycerides that not only help reduce your risk of coronary artery disease and promote healthy circulation, but they also support optimal neurological functioning. 
Include coconut in your diet for healthy fats. The purported health benefits of coconut oil have sparked debate in the medical community. Conventional dietary advice has been to limit coconut oil because it is rich in saturated fats, which have been associated with heart disease. Coconut oil, being mainly a saturated fat, is able to withstand higher temperatures than other oils, making it one of the best oils for cooking. It also gives a delicious taste and superb texture to foods. Use organic extra-virgin coconut oil for the best quality.