Your perfume may not be as rosy as you'd like to believe. Even though perfume may evoke images of a field of wildflowers, it actually consists of a variety of synthetic chemicals that are manufactured in laboratories. Many perfume ingredients are far from natural.
Solid Perfume Solid perfumes are also pleasant to use and easy to make. A basic formula would use 80% of your favorite light oil, 13% beeswax and 7% of your fragrance. Melt wax with oil, let cool, add fragrance, blend well and pour into container.
If fragrance is added to a product to mask or cover up the odor of other ingredients, it is not required to be put on the label. A product must be marked without perfume to indicate that no fragrance has been added. Ninety-five percent of the chemicals used in fragrances are petroleum-based synthetic compounds.
A material used in a perfume to “fix” the perfume or make it last longer. Fixatives may be simply materials that are relatively longer lasting than the other components or they may have some physical or chemical effect of forming bonds with the other materials.
And if you've got asthma, watch out -- fragrance formulas are considered to be among the top 5 known allergens, and can trigger asthma attacks. The same kinds of chemicals are often used for fragrances in cleaning products, scented candles, and air fresheners.
Fragrance Sensitivity A growing number of people are claiming that exposure to certain fragrances, including perfumes and scented products, adversely impacts their health. More than 5,000 different fragrances are in products that are used on a daily basis.
June has graciously allowed us to present this article to our visitors. Please make sure to visit June's web site at: http://www.jrussellshealth.org/ Chemical Sensitivities and Perfume Fragrances are now used in almost every cleaning, laundry, and personal-care product on the market.
Phthalates as Fragrance Ingredients. Phthalates are a group of chemicals used in hundreds of products. The phthalate commonly used in fragrance products is diethyl phthalate, or DEP. DEP does not pose known risks for human health as it is currently used in cosmetics and fragrances. To learn more, see “ Phthalates and Cosmetic Products .”.