Fructose, or fruit sugar, is a simple ketonic monosaccharide found in many plants, where it is often bonded to glucose to form the disaccharide sucrose. It is one of the three dietary monosaccharides, along with glucose and galactose, that are absorbed directly into the bloodstream during digestion. 
This group is found in ketones too! Remember if you place the cursor on an atom and click, the atom is identified at the lower left of your browser screen. Other functional groups in carbohydrates are given below, where R is a carbon group, such as-CH3. Carbohydrates are composed of the elements carbon, hydrogen and oxygen. The carbonyl group consists of the bound C=O and is found in aldehydes, ketones, and as you will see later, carboxylic acids.
The main functional groups in sugar and other carbohydrates is the  carbonyl group and the hydroxyl group. The carbonyl group is  composed of the aldehyde and ketone groups. …. 
Monosaccharides (Greek, meaning “single sugar”) are simple sugars and are frequently named using the suffix –ose. Sugars with the carbonyl group attached to a carbon at the end of the chain are aldoses (“aldehyde sugar”) such as glucose. Biomolecules meet specific structural criteria to be classified as carbohydrates. Simple carbohydrates are modifications of short hydrocarbon chains. Several hydroxyls and one carbonyl functional group modify these hydrocarbon chains to create a monosaccharide, the base unit of all carbohydrates.
1 Monosaccharides contain the hydroxy (alcohol, OH) functional group. 2  Disaccharides and polysaccharides contain both the hydroxy (alcohol, OH) functional group and an ether or glycosidic link (R-O-R') between 2 simple sugar molecules. 3  2 monosaccharides react in a condensation reaction producing a disaccharide and water. 1 &nbsp &nbsp (poly means many). 2  Monosaccharides contain the hydroxy (alcohol, OH) functional group. 3
1 All carbohydrates are characterized by the carbonyl functional group (C=O) along with a number of hydroxyl functional groups(C—OH). 2  Aldehydes have the carbonyl group at the end of the molecule. 3  Glucose, pictured here, is an example of an aldehyde sugar (aldose). 4  It is the most common monosaccharide in living systems. 