To calculate your BMI, divide your weight in pounds by your height in inches squared, then multiply the results by a conversion factor of 703. For someone who is 5 feet 5 inches tall (65 inches) and weighs 150 pounds, the calculation would look like this: [150 ÷ (65) 2 ] x 703 = 24.96.
1 Body mass index, or BMI, is a calculation based on your height and weight. 2  The calculation helps your doctor tell if you may be at risk for health problems because of your weight. 3  It tends to be less accurate in people who are very muscular or very short.
BMI (body mass index), which is based on the height and weight of a person, is an inaccurate measure of body fat content and does not take into account muscle mass, bone density, overall body composition, and racial and sex differences, say researchers from the Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania.
BMI readings under 18.5 mean you are underweight, and could put on a few pounds. If you fall between 18.5 and 24.9, you’re considered normal, while a BMI of 30 or higher qualifies as overweight. But in recent years, more researchers argue that it’s not the most accurate way to measure body weight.
Body mass index (BMI) is a measure of weight adjusted for height, calculated as weight in kilograms divided by the square of height in meters (kg/m 2). Although BMI is often considered an indicator of body fatness, it is a surrogate measure of body fat because it measures excess weight rather than excess fat.
Body mass index is the standard metric for determining who is normal-weight, overweight and obese, but BMI is not an accurate measure of fat, and doesn't explain the causes of poor health, scientists argue in an editorial today (Aug. 22) in the journal Science.
Body mass index (BMI) is a measure of body fat based on height and weight that applies to adult men and women. 1  Enter your weight and height using standard or metric measures. 2  Select Compute BMI and your BMI will appear below.
Body Mass Index (BMI) provides an easy way to measure obesity, but more doctors are questioning its accuracy and usefulness. BMI is supposed to estimate the amount of body fat a person carries based on height and weight, and categorizes people based on what is appropriate for their size.
For most people, BMI provides a reasonable measure of body fat, but is not accurate for athletes (who weigh more because of muscle) or older people who have lost height, he said. Other methods of measuring body fat also have their pros and cons.