Making the world better, one answer at a time. Polypropylene can be biodegradable if it is made with EBD (enhanced bio decompositions) which can be easily broken down, fairly quickly, back to base compounds. A variety of packaging can now use biodegradable polypropylene. Natural materials are by definition biodegradable. That means that cotton, wool, linen and silk fulfill this criterion. Cotton and linen are cellulose based (a pol … ysaccharide) while wool and silk are made of protein types)wool is made of keratin as is human hair).
Polypropylene is a versatile polymer. It is used both as a plastic and as a fiber. Polypropylene is also known as polypropene. Polypropene is a polymer made up of monomers of … propene (an alkene). Natural materials are by definition biodegradable. That means that cotton, wool, linen and silk fulfill this criterion. Cotton and linen are cellulose based (a pol … ysaccharide) while wool and silk are made of protein types)wool is made of keratin as is human hair).
Biodegradable Plastics. Biodegradable plastic is plastic that decomposes naturally in the environment. This is achieved when microorganisms in the environment metabolize and break down the structure of biodegradable plastic. The end result is one which is less harmful to the environment than traditional plastics. Biodegradable plastics can be composed of bio-plastics, which are plastics made from renewable raw materials. There are normally two forms of biodegradable plastic, injection molded and solid. Traditional plastic is made with chemical fillers that can be harmful to the environment when released when the plastic is melted down. With biodegradable plastic, you get a substance made from natural sources that does not contain these chemical fillers, and does not pose the same risk to
Polypropylene can be biodegradable if it is made with EBD (enhanced  bio decompositions) which can be easily broken down, fairly  quickly, back to base compounds. A variety … of packaging can now use  biodegradable polypropylene. It is used both as a plastic and as a fiber. Polypropylene is also known as polypropene. Polypropene is a polymer made up of monomers of … propene (an alkene).
A Professor Plastic Feature Article. To many people, the term “biodegradable plastics” sounds like a contradiction in terms, sort of like a square circle. As usual, reality is a bit more complicated. First, let’s define biodegradable. 
An addition polymer made from the monomer propylene, it is rugged and unusually resistant to many chemical solvents, bases and acids. In 2013, the global market for polypropylene was about 55 million metric tons. Syndiotactic PP with a crystallinity of 30% has a melting point of 130 °C (266 °F). The melt flow rate (MFR) or melt flow index (MFI) is a measure of molecular weight of polypropylene. The measure helps to determine how easily the molten raw material will flow during processing.
Biodegradable plastics are plastics that decompose by the action of living organisms, usually bacteria. 1 While aromatic polyesters are almost totally resistant to microbial attack, most aliphatic polyesters are biodegradable due to their potentially hydrolysable ester bonds: 2  Naturally Produced: Polyhydroxyalkanoates (PHAs) like the poly-3-hydroxybutyrate (PHB), polyhydroxyvalerate (PHV) and polyhydroxyhexanoate (PHH);
Most commercial polypropylene is isotactic and has an intermediate level of crystallinity between that of low-density polyethylene (LDPE) and high-density polyethylene (HDPE). Polypropylene is normally tough and flexible, especially when copolymerized with ethylene. Syndiotactic PP with a crystallinity of 30% has a melting point of 130 °C (266 °F). The melt flow rate (MFR) or melt flow index (MFI) is a measure of molecular weight of polypropylene. The measure helps to determine how easily the molten raw material will flow during processing.
Quick facts on recycling polypropylene: 1  Polypropylene is being recycled in many applications, including battery cases, paint cans, home storage, flower pots, pallets, crates, composite lumber, and more. 2  More than 1/3 of communities in the United States collect plastic beyond bottles. 1 Recycled polypropylene is being used in many diverse applications: battery cases, paint cans, home storage, flower pots, pallets, crates, composite lumber, automotive parts.