Eyelid Surgery Cost. 1  Eyelid surgery, also known as blepharoplasty or an eyelid tuck, usually costs between $4,000 and $5,500 for the upper and lower eyelids. 1 This includes the anesthesia fee, facility fee and surgeon's fee. 2  The average surgeon's fee for eyelid surgery is $2,813, according to the American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery.
Eyelid Surgery Cost: Breaking it Down. The average surgeon's fee for blepharoplasty is around $2,900, according to the most recent statistics from the American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery. This is just an average, which means some surgeons charge a lot more and others may charge a lot less. Other factors that may affect eyelid surgery cost include the surgeon's fee as well as the geographic location of his or her practice. Eyelid surgery cost is comprised primarily of anesthesia fees, facility fees and surgeon fees. The total cost can range from $2,000 to $5,000 or higher.
The average price for eyelid surgery for cosmetic reasons is $3000 in the US and about 3000 British Pounds in the UK. There are also special offers available from the beauty clinics when more surgeries are performed. ANSWER: Me I had it done in Thailand, so far the result is good. 
On average, lower eyelid surgery cost is about $2,400, while the price of upper eyelid surgery is usually around $2,100. The cost of laser eyelid surgery is typically higher than that of conventional blepharoplasty and can be anywhere between $3,000 and $5,000. 1  RELATED: Find a qualified plastic surgeon in your area. The type of anesthesia used in the blepharoplasty procedure may cost between $400 and $600. There is also a fee for the use of the facility (surgical suite fee), which increases with the amount of time spent there.
1 Eyelid surgery, also known as blepharoplasty or an eyelid tuck, usually costs between $4,000 and $5,500 for the upper and lower eyelids. 2  This includes the anesthesia fee, facility fee and surgeon's fee. 1 This includes the anesthesia fee, facility fee and surgeon's fee. 2  The average surgeon's fee for eyelid surgery is $2,813, according to the American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery.
The average cost of eyelid surgery is $2,874, according to 2014 statistics from the American Society of Plastic Surgeons. Blepharoplasty costs can vary widely. The average fee referenced above does not include anesthesia, operating room facilities or other related expenses. A surgeon's cost for eyelid surgery may vary based on his or her experience, the type of procedure used, as well as geographic office location. Many plastic surgeons offer patient financing plans to help cover blepharoplasty costs, so be sure to ask. Eyelid surgery cost may include:
The national average for plastic surgeon fees for blepharoplasty is $3,528, according to the American Academy of Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery. Of course, this is just the average. Some surgeons charge less and others charge much more. The total cost for upper and lower blepharoplasty is about $4,000. For the lower lids, the total cost is around $2,500, and upper lid blepharoplasty costs about the same as the lower lid surgery. Eyelid surgery costs tend to be higher in urban areas — like New York City or Dallas — where overhead is more expensive and where surgeons are in greater demand
Eyelid Surgery Fees. When a patient pays for blepharoplasty, the cost is actually a combination of various fees, the most substantial of which is the surgeon’s fee. According to the American Society of Plastic Surgeons, in 2004 the average surgeon’s fee for blepharoplasty was $2,523. The type of anesthesia used in the blepharoplasty procedure may cost between $400 and $600. There is also a fee for the use of the facility (surgical suite fee), which increases with the amount of time spent there.