In Turner's Syndrome, the sex chromosomes are expressed as XO, to indicate that there is a chromosome missing. More commonly though, syndactyly is caused by a genetic defect, and is therefore found to run in families. It is found in both males and females who have the normal arrangement of sex chromosomes: XX for females; XY for males. There are five different types of syndactyly which are classified according to which fingers or toes are involved. 
Syndactyly is the most common congenital malformation of the limbs, with an incidence of 1 in 2000-3000 live births. Syndactyly can be classified as simple when it involves soft tissues only and classified as complex when it involves the bone or nail of adjacent fingers. It is a shared feature of more than 28 syndromes, including Poland, Apert, and Holt-Oram syndromes. In simple syndactyly, the third web space between the long finger and the ring finger is the area most commonly involved, followed by the fourth, second, and (rarely) first web spaces. Bilateral involvement is found in 50% of patients.
Both polydactyly and syndactyly can be caused by the presence of an autosomal dominant trait. An autosomal dominant trait is a gene that is not related to the chromosome that determines gender; therefore, it affects boys and girls equally. Demographics. Syndactyly of the fingers is the most common malformation affecting the hand. It occurs in approximately one in 2,000 live births. Postaxial polydactyly, or an extra pinky finger, is the second most common malformation of the hand, occurring in approximately one in 3,000 births.
Fenestrated syndactyly means the skin is joined for most of the digit but in a proximal area there is gap in the syndactyly with normal skin. This type of syndactyly is found in amniotic band syndrome. Simple syndactyly can be full or partial, and is present at birth (congenital). In early human fetal development, webbing (syndactyly) of the toes and fingers is normal. 
Syndactyly may be either a complete fusion of fingers or toes or a looser webbing of skin between them. Syndactyly and polydactyly may occur simultaneously when extra digits are fused in a condition known as polysyndactyly. Demographics. Syndactyly of the fingers is the most common malformation affecting the hand. It occurs in approximately one in 2,000 live births. Postaxial polydactyly, or an extra pinky finger, is the second most common malformation of the hand, occurring in approximately one in 3,000 births.
Institute of Human Genetics, University of Bonn, Germany. Syndactyly type 1 (SD1) is an autosomal dominant limb malformation characterized in its classical form by complete or partial webbing between the third and fourth fingers and/or the second and third toes. After exclusion of a candidate region previously identified for syndactyly type 2 (synpolydactyly), we performed a genomewide linkage analysis in a large German pedigree. We found evidence for linkage of SD1 to polymorphic markers on chromosome 2q34-q36, with a maximum LOD score of 12.40 for marker D2S301.
The LRP4 gene has been found to be linked to syndactyly in cattle [ 112, 113 ], and is reported, with multiple mutations involving the LRP4 gene on Chromosome 11p12-p11.2, to be the causative factor in SD7 [ 114 ]. Of the study group, 2 families did not exhibit LRP4 mutations which suggests further gene involvement. In syndactyly type III, the normal and first described phenotype involves complete and bilateral syndactyly between the fourth and fifth fingers. This is generally a soft tissue syndactyly but occasionally the distal phalanges are found to be fused.
TEXT. A number sign (#) is used with this entry because postaxial polydactyly type A1 (PAPA1) and type B (PAPB) can be caused by heterozygous mutation in the GLI3 (165240) gene on chromosome 7p. See also preaxial polydactyly type IV (174700), an allelic disorder. Description. In a patient with postaxial polydactyly type B of the hands, Furniss et al. (2007) identified a heterozygous mutation in the GLI3 gene (165240.0015), which was predicted to result in premature termination and shown to be subject to nonsense-mediated mRNA decay.