Iron deficiency leads to anemia, a decrease in the oxygen carrying capacity of blood. However, too much iron in the body can be extremely toxic to tissues because it promotes the formation of free radicals. The majority of the body's iron is found in hemoglobin of developing and mature red blood cells. Of the remaining iron, a significant portion is stored in the liver, both in the hepatocytes, and in the Kupffer cells (also known as reticuloendothelial cells), a type of macrophage found in the liver. A second signal depends upon the amount of iron in body stores. Iron absorption is stimulated if the level in body stores is low. These signals (and others) regulate iron absorption in the proximal duodenum, where iron is absorbed. An important player in this regulation is the recently discovered hormone hepcidin. Hepcidin is produced by hepatocytes when iron stores are full
Human iron homeostasis is regulated at two different levels. Systemic iron levels are balanced by the controlled absorption of dietary iron by enterocytes, the cells that line the interior of the intestines, and the uncontrolled loss of iron from epithelial sloughing, sweat, injuries and blood loss. In addition, systemic iron is continuously recycled. Iron export occurs in a variety of cell types, including neurons, erythrocytes, macrophages and enterocytes. The latter two are especially important since systemic iron levels depend upon them. There is only one known iron exporter, ferroportin.
Natural generation [edit | edit source]. Iron occurs only around from bedrock to slightly above sea level (layers 1-63). However, almost all of the iron ore will be at the lower levels. On average, there are about 77 iron ores per chunk. Veins can vary in size, but the most common is 2×2×2
● Ferritin levels — Ferritin is a protein that reflects the body's stores of iron. Blood ferritin levels increase when the body's iron stores increase; however, levels of ferritin usually do not rise until iron stores are high. Therefore, the results of this test may be normal early in the course of hemochromatosis. ● Maintenance phlebotomy — After iron stores have been reduced to normal levels (eg, ferritin levels in the range of 50 to 100 ng/mL), maintenance phlebotomy is essential to prevent iron from accumulating again. Maintenance phlebotomy entails removing 1 unit of blood every two to four months.
In general, the digestive system is set up to maximize absorption; there is no regulation of the amounts of substances absorbed into the body. A notable exception is iron, in which daily dietary absorption is regulated so that it matches daily iron loss. A second signal depends upon the amount of iron in body stores. Iron absorption is stimulated if the level in body stores is low. These signals (and others) regulate iron absorption in the proximal duodenum, where iron is absorbed. An important player in this regulation is the recently discovered hormone hepcidin. Hepcidin is produced by hepatocytes when iron stores are full
Blood tests — Three blood tests are usually recommended to determine iron levels in the body. ● Iron levels — Most people with hemochromatosis have elevated levels of iron in the blood. ● Transferrin saturation — Transferrin is a protein that binds iron and transports it between the tissues. Transferrin saturation is calculated from iron levels in the blood. ● Maintenance phlebotomy — After iron stores have been reduced to normal levels (eg, ferritin levels in the range of 50 to 100 ng/mL), maintenance phlebotomy is essential to prevent iron from accumulating again. Maintenance phlebotomy entails removing 1 unit of blood every two to four months.
Anemia can develop during pregnancy due to low levels of iron and folic acid (folate) and changes in the blood. During the first 6 months of pregnancy, the fluid portion of a woman's blood (the plasma) increases faster than the number of red blood cells. This dilutes the blood and can lead to anemia. 
Iron is a chemical element with symbol Fe (from Latin: ferrum) and atomic number 26. It is a metal in the first transition series. It is by mass the most common element on Earth, forming much of Earth's outer and inner core. It is the fourth most common element in the Earth's crust. 