A goniometer is a device that either measures an angle or moves an object along a fixed point to a specific angular position. Goniometers have many uses and can be found in a number of industries. They measure range of motion, determine direction, and measure an object’s dimensions. How a Goniometer Works. A goniometer consists of two limbs, usually made of plastic or wood, that are connected by a joint and are usually attached to a circular piece of the same material that is labeled with multiple angular measurements.
Measuring Flexibility using a Goniometer. A goniometer is used to measure the range of motion of various joints around the body. 1  purpose: the aim of this test is to measure the flexibility of a joint, which is important for injury prevention and execution of many sporting movements. 2  equipment required: Goniometer. 1 equipment required: Goniometer. 2  procedure: To measure the range of motion at a joint, the center of the goniometer is positioned at the axis of rotation of a joint, and the arms of the goniometer are aligned with the long axis of the bones of the adjacent segments or to an external reference.
Thus, a goniometer is an instrument used to measure angles. Within the field of physical therapy, goniometry is used to measure the total amount of available motion at a specific joint. Goniometry can be used to measure both active and passive range of motion. 1 Traditional goniometer. 2  The traditional goniometer, which can be used for flexion and extension; abduction and adduction; and rotation in the shoulder, elbow, wrist, hip, knee, and ankle, consists of three parts: 3  A body. 4  The body of the goniometer is designed like a protractor and may form a full or half circle.
In surface science, an instrument generally called a contact angle goniometer is used to measure the static contact angle, advancing & receding contact angles, and surface tension. Prior to the invention of the theodolite, the goniometer was used in surveying. The application of triangulation to geodesy was described in the second (1533) edition of Cosmograficus liber by Petri Appiani as a 16-page appendix by Frisius entitled Libellus de locorum describendorum ratione.
bubble goniometer. a protractor-like device, commonly with a 180° range, used to measure a joint's position when stationary, at any point over its whole range of movement. Used in practice to assess flexibility, perhaps as part of a musculoskeletal screen. GONIOMETER: These goniometers are measuring a patient's elbow at extension and flexion. GONIOMETER: These goniometers are measuring a patient's elbow at extension and flexion. An instrument to measure joint movements and angles.
A goniometer is used to document initial and subsequent range of motion, at the visits for occupational injuries, and by disability evaluators to determine a permanent disability. This is to evaluate progress, and also for medico-legal purposes. Prior to the invention of the theodolite, the goniometer was used in surveying. The application of triangulation to geodesy was described in the second (1533) edition of Cosmograficus liber by Petri Appiani as a 16-page appendix by Frisius entitled Libellus de locorum describendorum ratione.
How to use a Goniometer to measure Range of Motion, a flexibility test that can be used for a wide range of Joint flexibility. Ideal for Physiotherapists and fitness instructors as well as Bike Mechanics, health in the workplace and other health professionals. 
A goniometer is an instrument that either measures an angle or allows an object to be rotated to a precise angular position. The term goniometry is derived from two Greek words, gōnia, meaning angle, and metron, meaning measure. Prior to the invention of the theodolite, the goniometer was used in surveying. The application of triangulation to geodesy was described in the second (1533) edition of Cosmograficus liber by Petri Appiani as a 16-page appendix by Frisius entitled Libellus de locorum describendorum ratione.