Phospholipids form the basic structure of a cell membrane, called the lipid bilayer. Scattered in the lipid bilayer are cholesterol molecules, which help to keep the membrane fluid consistent. Membrane proteins are important for transporting substances across the cell membrane. They can also function as enzymes or receptors. On the extracellular fluid side of a cell membrane, you find carbohydrates. They help a cell to be recognized as a certain type of cell and are important for holding cells together.
While the lipid bilayer provides the structure for the cell membrane, membrane proteins allow for many of the interactions that occur between cells. As we discussed in the previous section, membrane proteins are free to move within the lipid bilayer as a result of its fluidity.
They are sometimes anchored to lipids in the membrane or bound to other membrane proteins (Figure 5). Figure 5: The fluid-mosaic model of the cell membrane. Like a mosaic, the cell membrane is a complex structure made up of many different parts, such as proteins, phospholipids, and cholesterol.
Lists of functions of a cell membrane (= plasma membrane) can include various numbers of functions because particles can move across the membrane in several different ways, including diffusion via ion channels, active transport via membrane pumps, endocytosis (into the cell) and exocytosis (out of the cell).
1 Carbohydrates covalently linked to proteins (glycoproteins) or lipids (glycolipids) are also a part of cell membranes, and function as adhesion and address loci for cells. 2  The Fluid Mosaic Model describes membranes as a fluid lipid bilayer with floating proteins and carbohydrates.
The cell membrane is the outer most layer of the cell, and its functions are as follows: - Allows certain materials to enter the cell. - Gets rid of cell waste.
In addition to the lipid bilayer, the cell membrane also contains a number of proteins. We have already mentioned the presence of certain proteins in the cell membrane. In this section we will discuss the different classes of proteins found there.
For example, plasma membrane proteins carry out functions as diverse as ferrying nutrients across the plasma membrane, receiving chemical signals from outside the cell, translating chemical signals into intracellular action, and sometimes anchoring the cell in a particular location (Figure 4).