A shogun's office or administration is the shogunate, known in Japanese as the bakufu (幕府, literally tent office/government) , which originally referred to house of the general and later also suggested a private government under a shogun. The actual shogun during this period met the same fate as the emperor and was reduced to a figurehead until the coup in 1333 by retainers whereby actual power was restored to the shogun. The modern rank of shōgun is equivalent to a level two junji.
Minamoto no Yoritomo, the first shogun (1192–1199) of the Kamakura shogunate. A shogun (将軍, shōgun, [ɕoːɡu͍ɴ] (listen), general, literally military Commander) was a hereditary military dictator in Japan during the period from 1192 to 1867, with some caveats. The actual shogun during this period met the same fate as the emperor and was reduced to a figurehead until the coup in 1333 by retainers whereby actual power was restored to the shogun. The modern rank of shōgun is equivalent to a level two junji.
1 Under the rule of the Tokugawa shoguns (1600-1868), Japan enjoys a 250-year period of peace and order. 2  Dramatic changes take place within this ordered society, however, particularly those of commercial development, the rise of a merchant class, the growth of cities and of a new urban culture. 1 These are the final years of Japan's medieval period (1185-1600) just prior to the reunification of Japan and the establishment of order and peace under the Tokugawa shoguns (1600-1868).
When Tokugawa Ieyasu became shogun it was the start of a revolution in Japan. A new age of Tokugawa shoguns that brought peace in the Tokugawa period, unlike the shogunate's before. It was based on the strict class hierarchy originally established by Toyotomi Hideyoshi. The daimyo, or lords, were at the top, followed by the samurai, with the farmers, artisans, and traders ranking below. Tokugawa Iemitsu was the third shogun of the Tokugawa shogunate. He was the eldest son of Tokugawa Hidetada, and the grandson of Tokugawa Ieyasu. In 1633, after his brother's death, he dismissed the Daimyo his pre-disessor had left in charge and replaced them with his childhood friends.
The Edo period (江戸時代, Edo jidai) or Tokugawa period (徳川時代, Tokugawa jidai) , is the period between 1603 and 1868 in the history of Japan, when Japanese society was under the rule of the Tokugawa shogunate and the country's 300 regional Daimyo. The shogunate was officially established in Edo on March 24, 1603, by Tokugawa Ieyasu. The period came to an end with the Meiji Restoration on May 3, 1868, after the fall of Edo.
The Tokugawa shogunate, also known as the Tokugawa bakufu (徳川幕府) and the Edo bakufu (江戸幕府) , was the last feudal Japanese military government which existed between 1603 and 1868. The heads of government were the shoguns, and each was a member of the Tokugawa clan. The Tokugawa shogunate ruled from Edo Castle and the years of the shogunate became known as the Edo period. This time is also called the Tokugawa period or pre-modern (Kinsei (近世)). The Late Tokugawa Shogunate (Japanese: 幕末 Bakumatsu) was the period between 1853 and 1867, during which Japan ended its isolationist foreign policy called sakoku and modernized from a feudal shogunate to the Meiji government. It is at the end of the Edo period and preceded the Meiji era
Introduction. Japan’s Tokugawa (or Edo) period, which lasted from 1603 to 1867, would be the final era of traditional Japanese government, culture and society before the Meiji Restoration of 1868 toppled the long-reigning Tokugawa shoguns and propelled the country into the modern era. Near the beginning of the Tokugawa period, there were an estimated 300,000 Christians in Japan; after the shogunate’s brutal repression of a Christian rebellion on the Shimabara Peninsula in 1637-38, Christianity was forced underground.
Tokugawa Ieyasu, who founded the shogunate in 1603 in present-day Tokyo. The final shoguns were those of the Tokugawa clan, who came to power in 1603 and ruled until 1868. Tokugawa Ieyasu, the founder of the dynasty, built a new capital in Edo, the city that is now Tokyo. The word shogun is a title that was granted by the Emperor to the country's top military commander. During the Heian period (794-1192) the members of the military gradually became more powerful than the court officials, and eventually they took control of the whole government.