Application date. Retroactive benefits generally may not be collected for more than 12 months. If you add this year of retroactive benefits to the five-month wait period, the farthest back that Social Security will recognize a disability onset date is 17 months before the application date (12 + 5 = 17).
The retroactive limit on back pay is usually 12 months before the date of your application. There is no clear time frame for how long it will take before a claimant begins receiving benefits. As such, most Social Security Disability claimants are entitled to years of back pay.
And for Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) benefits, there is five-month waiting period, so you are only eligible to receive back pay for any delay beyond the wait period (see “When Payments Will Begin,” below, for further information).
1 If your claim is approved a year after application, you will be entitled to seven months of Back Pay (12 month approval process, less 5 month waiting period).
1 If your claim is approved 24 months after application, your will be entitled to 12 months of Back Pay (even though a 24 month waiting period less a 5 month waiting period is 19 months, the limit for Back Pay is 12 months).
It sometimes takes months or even years for Social Security to approve a child for SSI (Supplemental Security Income) disability benefits. When the SSI application is approved, the SSI payments can go back to the month after the month you applied. These months of back payments are called retroactive benefits. For example, if you applied for your child’s SSI in January 2003 and Social Security approved the application a year later, the retroactive benefits would go back to February, 2003.
SSD and Back pay If you qualify for social security disability, you will be entitled to benefits as far back as your date of application and potentially even 12 months retroactive to this. Therefore, you may also be entitled to substantial back pay benefits depending on how your claim takes.
How Back Pay is distributed will depend on whether a claimant is approved for Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) benefits, Supplemental Security Income (SSI) benefits, or both. SSI disability benefits accrue from the date that you filed your application.