The sago palm (Cycas revoluta) is a popular houseplant known for its feathery foliage and ease of care. In fact, this is a great plant for beginners and makes an interesting addition to nearly any room. It can even be grown outdoors. Sago palms are easy to care for but do require special needs, such as bright light, although they will tolerate low-light conditions. What they will not tolerate, however, is too much moisture. Sago palms prefer to be situated in well-drained soil, and like other cycad plants, they do not respond well to overwatering.
Sago Palm. The sago palm is the only cycas plant from its genus which is sold in garden stores for growing indoors, named cycas revoluta. Although, this species is not a true palm – it has the appearance of a palm, with its feather like fronds. These fronds also look very similar to some ferns. The sago palm is best suited for growing in a bright conservatory, but it can also be placed in other rooms where there is enough light and room for the wide fronds. Sago palms are slow growing plants that take a fair few years (5 or more) to reach their maximum height of appoximatly 2ft, when grown indoors.
Sago palms (Metroxylon sagu) in New Guinea. Sago /ˈseɪɡoʊ/ is a starch extracted from the spongy centre, or pith, of various tropical palm stems, especially Metroxylon sagu. It is a major staple food for the lowland peoples of New Guinea and the Moluccas, where it is called saksak, rabia and sagu. Sago is extracted from the sago cycad by cutting the pith from the stem, root and seeds of the cycads, grinding the pith to a coarse flour and then washing it carefully and repeatedly to leach out the natural toxins. The starchy residue is then dried and cooked, producing a starch similar to palm sago/sabudana
The sago cycad is also commonly known (confusingly) as the sago palm, although this is a misnomer as cycads are not palms. Extracting edible starch from the sago cycad requires special care due to the poisonous nature of cycads. Cycad sago is used for many of the same purposes as palm sago. Sago is extracted from the sago cycad by cutting the pith from the stem, root and seeds of the cycads, grinding the pith to a coarse flour and then washing it carefully and repeatedly to leach out the natural toxins. The starchy residue is then dried and cooked, producing a starch similar to palm sago/sabudana
Cycas revoluta (Sotetsu [Japanese ソテツ ], sago palm, king sago, sago cycad, Japanese sago palm), is a species of gymnosperm in the family Cycadaceae, native to southern Japan including the Ryukyu Islands. 
*images shown are of mature plants. Sago is a durable palm that can do well indoors or out with little fuss--even for a beginner. In warm zones, you can plant Sago in the landscape and it will provide you with instant tropical island appeal. 
The sago palm is a tropical plant that cannot survive cold climates. The sago palm (Cycas revoluta) is not a true palm -- it is more closely related to evergreen conifers than palm trees. The plant is native to Japan and grows outdoors as an evergreen in U.S. Department of Agriculture hardiness zones 9 through 11. Sago palms produce large, palm-like leaves that grow from the apex of the stout cylindrical trunk. The foliage consists of a thick mid-rib from which long, narrow leaflets spread on each side. You can grow the sago palm as a houseplant or container plant in cooler climates.