Answers. Best Answer: Caliectasis and pelviectasis means dilatation of calyx and pelvis (urinary space) of the kidney and is usually due to obstruction of urine flow. The dilatation of urinary space of the kidney could be in one or both kidneys depending on the cause of obstruction. Sorry, something has gone wrong. Best Answer: Caliectasis and pelviectasis means dilatation of calyx and pelvis (urinary space) of the kidney and is usually due to obstruction of urine flow.
Pyelectasis. Pyelectasis is a dilation of the renal pelvis. The term is derived from the prefix pyelo-meaning pelvis and ectasia meaning dilation or distension. It is a relatively common ultrasound finding and is three times more common in male fetuses. In most cases pyelectasis resolves normally, having no ill effects on the baby.
Hydronephrosis is the distention of the pelvis and calyces of one or both kidneys, resulting in thinning of the renal tubules because of obstructed urinary flow. When the obstruction is a stone or kink in one of the ureters, only one kidney is damaged. 
(Dilatation means stretching or enlargement). The amount of stretching of the renal pelvis with pyelectasis is typically defined as greater than 4 mm but less than 10 mm in a baby younger than 24 weeks of gestation. Enlargement of 4 to 10 mm also may be called mild hydronephrosis. 
Pyelectasis is a dilation of the renal pelvis. The term is derived from the prefix pyelo-meaning pelvis and ectasia meaning dilation or distension. It is a relatively common ultrasound finding and is three times more common in male fetuses. In most cases pyelectasis resolves normally, having no ill effects on the baby.
Premium Questions. pelviectasis .No calculi,mass,or perirenal fluid.No dilation of the ureter on the comparation CT or other secondary features of obstruction.Mild right renal pelviectasis .This may represent transient peristalsis ... Hello Doctor, Yesterday, I had my 29th week scan.. It is found in the ultrasound examination that foetus having bilateral renal pelviectasis with the left and right kidneys measuring 10mm and 11mm.
Pelviectasis is a general term used to describe dilation of the renal pelvis, or collecting system of the kidney.   Hydronephrosis also refers to dilitation of the renal pe … lvis, but has the added connotation that the pathology was caused by an obstructive process, such as a kidney stone. Making the world better, one answer at a time. This is a condition in which there is dilatation of the renal pelvis, the kidney part that is in direct connection with the ureter. The ureter is in direct communication with urinary bladder.
A common source of stress and anxiety in pregnancy is an abnormal finding on a prenatal ultrasound examination. One of the more common findings we deal with is dilatation of the renal collecting system, or hydronephrosis, in the fetus. Hydronephrosis is seen in 1-4% of all pregnancies and occurs more commonly in males. If it appears abnormal or dilated, it is measured. Mild dilatation of this renal pelvis, also called pyelectasis or pelviectasis is defined as a measurement between 4mm and 10mm in the second trimester. There can be confusion about the significance of this finding and what to do when it is found.
The funnel-like structure that drains the kidney is called the renal pelvis. If it appears abnormal or dilated, it is measured. Mild dilatation of this renal pelvis, also called pyelectasis or pelviectasis is defined as a measurement between 4mm and 10mm in the second trimester. There can be confusion about the significance of this finding and what to do when it is found.