Identification: Jacquard bedding, such as pillowcases, shams, sheets, duvet covers and bedskirts, are made with a woven fabric that is designed with intricate patterns. Common patterns include fleur-de-lis, silhouettes of flowers and leaves, and paisley patterns.
Jacquard is actually a type of loom-one that permits the weaving of complex patterns with the yarn itself. Matelasse, damask, and [some] chenille are all jacquard-woven fabrics. Chenille describes fabric woven with a fluffy, usually cut, nap. Technically, velvet and corduroy are chenille fabrics.
FABRIC » PATTERN » Damask. DAMASK FABRICS Damask fabrics are classic looks that are current once again in fresh colors, large-scale motifs and exquisite jacquard weaves. Calico offers damask fabrics in cotton, chenille, silk and blends in a variety of weights for draperies, upholstered furniture and custom bedding.
Oft times, the terms brocade, damask, and jacquard, get used interchangeably, which, to be fair is understandable – they’re all relatively similar.
As you’ve already pointed out, brocade and jacquard are completely different things, while the first names a kind of fabric, the second is a technique, a loom add-on, if you wish.
Jacquard. n. 1. (Knitting & Sewing) Also called: Jacquard weave a fabric in which the design is incorporated into the weave instead of being printed or dyed on. 2. (Knitting & Sewing) Also called: Jacquard loom the loom that produces this fabric.
DAMASK FABRICS. Damask fabrics are classic looks that are current once again in fresh colors, large-scale motifs and exquisite jacquard weaves. Calico offers damask fabrics in cotton, chenille, silk and blends in a variety of weights for draperies, upholstered furniture and custom bedding.
These include cotton Jacquard, damask Jacquard, silk Jacquard and faux-silk Jacquard. Some styles of Jacquard fabrics are made with tone-on-tone silk and cotton, while others are made with just a single fabric.
Damask fabric refers to a type of weaving where a pattern or design is set against a background of fabric such as silk, cotton or wool.