Expected Answer: We charge [$50 to $70]USD per hour.. Rates vary, and so do charging schemes (some computer repair services are billed per service), but $50 to $70USD per hour is average. Too much higher than that and you're likely getting ripped off. Asking the cost of a service seems like a question you'd be unlikely to forget but I am always amazed by stories of customers in absolute shock at the hourly rate for a particular computer repair service-after the fact. Don't wait until it's time to pay the bill to find out how much per hour you you'll be paying.
The average wage for a Computer Repair Technician is $13.03 per hour. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 20 years' experience in this career. (United States). The average wage for a Computer Repair Technician is $13.03 per hour. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 20 years' experience in this career. Experience has a moderate effect on income for this job.
In-Shop Repair Prices. When you bring your computer into our shop for repair, we give you two easy ways to pay. 1  Hourly Service-We will fix your computer at the low hourly rate of $48/hour. 2  Computer Service Maintenance Packages-This is the best value for your money!
Rates. Hourly Labor My hourly in shop rate is $75 an hour. Minimum labor charge is 1/2 hour, $37.50. Onsite priority business service is available, please give me a call to determine your needs. Most virus and malware removal runs around 1.5 - 2 hours of labor.
Take your computer to their shop or find another computer repair service. You should, however, expect to see some kind of small charge to visit you-perhaps a $10 to $20USD single trip charge or a 10-20% hourly rate increase. Some computer repair services do not charge anything extra at all for this extra service. Asking the cost of a service seems like a question you'd be unlikely to forget but I am always amazed by stories of customers in absolute shock at the hourly rate for a particular computer repair service-after the fact. Don't wait until it's time to pay the bill to find out how much per hour you you'll be paying.
it depends on what the computer problem is....usually about $100 to $150 dollars an hour or whatever the consultant decides the rate will be since a computer consultant fixes and diagnoses a wide range of computer problems.....that includes home computer repair to office computer repair..... The average hourly rate for a portrait photography varies greatly depending on the area you live in. Generally speaking the hourly rate can average anywhere from $20/hr to $30 … 0/hr and up. 1 person found this useful.
Computer Repair Technician Salary. (Canada). The average wage for a Computer Repair Technician is C$13.56 per hour. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 20 years' experience in this field. 
National Salary Information. Computer and office machine repairmen reported an average hourly wage of $18.44 and an average salary of $38,360 per year to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, or BLS, as of May 2011. Occupational Outlook. While the BLS predicts that the American economy will grow jobs at an average rate of about 14 percent between 2010 and 2020, jobs for computer and office repair technicians are expected to grow at a significantly slower rate of 7 percent.