Function. The superficial flexors support various movements of the antebrachial and hand joints. As the name reveals, (almost) all of them do flexion of the hand joint (except the pronator teres). Another thing these muscles have in common is that they are weak flexors of the elbow joint. The superficial flexors of the forearm are a group of five muscles found at the anterior forearm. They form the surface of the ulnar side of the forearm where they can also be easily palpated. Their long tendons can be followed very well at the wrist joint, especially during flexion.
1 That muscle is the most lateral of all superficial flexors. 2  Innervation: median nerve (C6-C7). 3  Flexor carpi radialis muscle: runs from the common flexor tendon at the humerus to the bases of the second and third metacarpal bones. The superficial flexors of the forearm are a group of five muscles found at the anterior forearm. They form the surface of the ulnar side of the forearm where they can also be easily palpated. Their long tendons can be followed very well at the wrist joint, especially during flexion.
The superficial muscles in the anterior compartment are the flexor carpi ulnaris, palmaris longus, flexor carpi radialis and pronator teres. They all originate from a common tendon, which arises from the medial epicondyle of the humerus. 
1 Flexor carpi radialis muscle: runs from the common flexor tendon at the humerus to the bases of the second and third metacarpal bones. 2  Innervation: median nerve (C6-C7). 3  Flexor carpi ulnaris muscle: arises from the medial epicondyle of the humerus (humeral head) and the olecranon of the ulna (ulnar head). The superficial flexors of the forearm are a group of five muscles found at the anterior forearm. They form the surface of the ulnar side of the forearm where they can also be easily palpated. Their long tendons can be followed very well at the wrist joint, especially during flexion.
Examples range from 640 to 850. The muscles of the human body can be categorized into a number of groups which include muscles relating to the head and neck, muscles of the torso or trunk, muscles of the upper limbs, and muscles of the lower limbs. The action refers to the action of each muscle from the standard anatomical position. 
The Deep Neck Flexors What are the deep neck flexor muscles? The deep neck flexors are a group of muscles that are responsible for forward bending and side-bending of the neck. These muscles are also very important for supporting the weight of the head against gravity and stabilizing the neck during various body movements. Deep Neck Flexor Exercises. The deep neck flexors can be activated by a simple nodding movement of the head on the neck called a chin-tuck. The tucking the chin activates the deep flexor muscles and moves the chin closer to the ‘Adam’s apple’ (Thyroid cartilage).
The following muscles are known to be the superficial flexors: 1  Pronator teres muscle: originates at the medial epicondyle of the humerus (humeral head) and coronoid process of the ulna (ulnar head). 2  From there it courses under the brachioradialis and attaches to the lateral side of the radius. The superficial flexors of the forearm are a group of five muscles found at the anterior forearm. They form the surface of the ulnar side of the forearm where they can also be easily palpated. Their long tendons can be followed very well at the wrist joint, especially during flexion.
List of flexors of the human body. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In anatomy, flexion (from the Latin verb flectere, to bend) is a joint movement that decreases the angle between the bones that converge at the joint. For example, your elbow joint flexes when you bring your hand closer to the shoulder. Flexion is typically instigated by muscle contraction. A muscle that flexes a joint is called a flexor. 