A powertrain warranty covers all or part of the powertrain of a vehicle, which is made up of the engine, transmission and drivetrain. Essentially, the powertrain is the system that powers the car, and then transfers that power to the transmission, then finally to the wheels of the car. After you’ve determined what is covered on the engine, be sure to examine how the powertrain warranty defines the transmission and the drivetrain. If you have a manual transmission, the warranty may exclude an important part such as the clutch.
In essence, a powertrain warranty is designed to cover only the vehicle's powertrain, which is typically a car's largest and most expensive component. Meanwhile, the bumper-to-bumper warranty covers everything -- the powertrain, the electronics, the suspension, vehicle systems and more. A bumper-to-bumper warranty, also called a comprehensive warranty, covers just about everything from the front bumper to the back bumper -- excluding the bumpers themselves, which are considered body panels and aren't covered.
The powertrain warranty is separate from the basic warranty and usually lasts twice as long. The terms of a powertrain warranty vary by ,but can last from five years/60,000 miles to 10 years/120,000 miles. As of 2010, Chrysler is the only American car manufacturer that offers a limited powertrain warranty for the lifetime of the vehicle. Function. The powertrain warranty protects your vehicle in the event you have problems with major components, including the engine, transmission, transfer case, axles and drive systems.
A vehicle’s powertrain – the “go parts” – consists of the engine, transmission, and drivetrain (the components that get the engine’s power to the wheels and down to the ground). It’s a big system with a lot of moving parts, and if any part of the powertrain fails, you’re a lot less likely to get where you need to go. Chrysler’s lifetime powertrain warranty had a big drawback – if the original owner sold the car, the warranty was not transferable to the new owner. It was an unusual caveat, because standard year/mile powertrain warranties are generally transferable until they expire.
Bumper-to-bumper warranties usually expire faster than powertrain warranties. Powertrain: Don't be misled a 10-year or 100,000-mile powertrain warranty doesn't promise a decade of free repairs for your car. It typically covers just the engine and transmission, along with any other moving parts that lead to the wheels, like the driveshaft and constant velocity joints. All new cars come with warranties, from comprehensive bumper-to-bumper policies to those that cover specific components like seat belts or catalytic converters. In all, a car can leave the dealership with 10 or more warranties — which can be a mess for its new owner to wade through.
Powertrain warranties also often cover just about anything involved in bringing power to the wheels, including a car's driveshaft and constant velocity joints. It's important to note, however, that not everything under the hood is covered by a powertrain warranty. A bumper-to-bumper warranty, also called a comprehensive warranty, covers just about everything from the front bumper to the back bumper -- excluding the bumpers themselves, which are considered body panels and aren't covered.
The extent of your car’s powertrain warranty coverage depends on the car and the manufacturer. The powertrain warranty factors heavily into the manufacturer’s strategy for marketing the car, so if you’re car shopping based on powertrain warranty coverage, make sure to read and understand all the details of the warranty. Chrysler’s lifetime powertrain warranty had a big drawback – if the original owner sold the car, the warranty was not transferable to the new owner. It was an unusual caveat, because standard year/mile powertrain warranties are generally transferable until they expire.
Typically the powertrain warranty covers more miles than a general or “bumper to bumper” warranty. With a 10 year/100,000 mile powertrain warranty, a powertrain is covered for up to 10 years or 100,000 miles, or whichever comes first. Even if you only put 50,000 miles on a car in 10 years, your coverage will end at that point. Conversely, if you pass 100,000 miles before the 10 years is up, your warranty will lapse. After you’ve determined what is covered on the engine, be sure to examine how the powertrain warranty defines the transmission and the drivetrain. If you have a manual transmission, the warranty may exclude an important part such as the clutch.