The name Yugadi or Ugadi is derived from the Sanskrit words yuga (age) and ādi (beginning): the beginning of a new age. It falls on a different day every year because the Hindu calendar is a lunisolar calendar. The Saka calendar begins with the month of Chaitra (March–April) and Ugadi marks the first day of the new year. Chaitra is the first month in Panchanga which is the Indian calendar.
Likewise, Andhra Pradesh also celebrates this festival with the same name, while in Maharashtra, it is celebrated as 'Gudi Padwa'. People in Karnataka prepare a special dish on this day known as 'Obbattu', or 'Holige'. Another dish is prepared, which consists of a specific mixture of six tastes called 'Ugadi Pachhadi'. Happy Ugadi Twitter. Happy Ugadi Twitter. Karnataka is all set to celebrate Ugadi (also called Yugadi) festival on 21 March. It is said that the festival marks the first day of the new year, which is also known as 'Vikram Samwat' or 'Bhartiya Nav Varsh' in some parts of India.
Telugu New Year is celebrated every year with a lot of fervor and enthusiasm. Ugadi is observed as the beginning of a new calendar in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. A number of traditions are observed on this day throughout the country and in those places where people celebrate Ugadi New Year. 
Best Answer: Ugadi -- New Year Day Ugadi is celebrated with festive fervor in Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. While it is called Ugadi in A.P. and Karnataka, in Maharashtra it is known as Gudipadawa. Ugadi marks the beginning of a new Hindu lunar calendar. Report Abuse. (m) Ugadi is celebrated with festive fervor in Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. While it is called Ugadi in A.P. and Karnataka, in Maharashtra it is known as Gudipadawa. Ugadi marks the beginning of a new Hindu lunar calendar. It is a day when mantras are chanted and predictions made for the new ye
Ugadi or Yugadi is celebrated as the first day of the year by people of Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. On this day new Samvatsara, which is cycle of sixty years, starts. All sixty Samvatsara are identified by unique name. Ugadi is celebrated as Gudi Padwa by the people of Maharashtra. 
Festivals: Ugadi : Ugadi Celebrations. Ugadi or Yugadi, the festival reserved to celebrate the commencement of New Year, is a day especially celebrated with huge fun and fervor in Deccan regions of India. It is assumed that Lord Brahma, the creator of the world began His creation on this day. 
Gudhi Padwa and Ugadi is celebrated as New Year's Day in Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka and Konkan. It is celebrated on the same day as Ugadi i.e., the first day of the month Chaitra. Courtyards of rural houses are cleaned and plastered with fresh cowdung. Ugadi and Gudi padwa is celebrated as New Year's Day in Karnataka, Andhra pradesh, Telangana, Maharastra and Konkan. The name Ugadi is derived from the name Yuga Adi, which means 'the beginning of a new age'.