Jorge Castillo: Plantains are a staple in the Cuban diet. We use them in many different dishes, but you most frequently see them served as maduros (fried sweet plantain) and tostones. Glenn Lindgren: Tostones are unique because they are fried twice. This double frying technique is very popular in Cuba! Many cooks use this technique to make French fried potatoes and boniato (sweet potatoes). 
1 Peel the plantains and cut into 1 inch [2.5 cm] thick slices. 2  In a deep frying pan heat the oil and fry the plantains till golden. 3  Flatten the plantains using a tostonera to about ¼ [0.5 cm]. 1 In a deep frying pan heat the oil and fry the plantains till golden. 2  Flatten the plantains using a tostonera to about ¼ [0.5 cm]. 3  Fry the plantains again until golden yellow on both sides. 4  Sprinkle with salt to taste.
1 Place the plantains in the oil and fry on both sides,; approximately 3 1/2 minutes per side. 2  Remove the plantains from the pan and flatten the plantains by placing a plate over the fried plantains and pressing down. 3  Dip the plantains in water, then return them to the hot oil and fry 1 minute on each side. Cook. Ready In. 1  Peel the plantain and cut it into 1-inch chunks. 2  Heat the oil in a large skillet. 3  Place the plantains in the oil and fry on both sides,; approximately 3 1/2 minutes per side. 4
1 Peel the plantains and cut them into 1-inch thick disks. 2  Place the garlic in a bowl with the water and set aside. 3  Heat enough oil in a large skillet so that the disks will be half way submerged in the oil. 4  When the oil is shiny and a drop of water sizzles across the top, add the plantains. So garlic tostones are basically fried plantains that have been pre-soaked in a garlic water to give them extra flavor. Imagine TJs potato oles but 100 times better. And yes, I’m referring to the TJs that is Taco John’s.
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. Tostones are sliced plantains that are fried twice and served with salt, cheese, a dipping sauce or a pickled pepper mixture. They are a delicacy in many Central and South American countries, as well as in the Caribbean islands. Tostones are frequently served hot with a mojo sauce, which is a garlic sauce used for dipping. Haitians will sometimes serve them with a traditional pickled pepper relish called pikliz or alongside griot, which is fried pork. They can also be topped with melted cheese as an appetizer.
Dominicans’ favorite side dish, tostones are slices of plantain, fried, flattened, then fried again. It is the side dish of choice, and welcome at street food stands and at Dominican dinner tables. They are also known as fritos verdes (green fries) in the Dominican Republic. 1 In a deep frying pan heat the oil and fry the plantains till golden. 2  Flatten the plantains using a tostonera to about ¼ [0.5 cm]. 3  Fry the plantains again until golden yellow on both sides. 4  Sprinkle with salt to taste.
1 Peel the plantain and cut it into 1-inch chunks. 2  Heat the oil in a large skillet. 3  Place the plantains in the oil and fry on both sides,; approximately 3 1/2 minutes per side. Cook. Ready In. 1  Peel the plantain and cut it into 1-inch chunks. 2  Heat the oil in a large skillet. 3  Place the plantains in the oil and fry on both sides,; approximately 3 1/2 minutes per side. 4  Remove the plantains from the pan and flatten the plantains by placing a plate over the fried plantains and pressing down.
Ready In. 1  Peel the plantain and cut it into 1-inch chunks. 2  Heat the oil in a large skillet. 3  Remove the plantains from the pan and flatten the plantains by placing a plate over the fried plantains and pressing down. 4  Dip the plantains in water, then return them to the hot oil and fry 1 minute on each side. Cook. Ready In. 1  Peel the plantain and cut it into 1-inch chunks. 2  Heat the oil in a large skillet. 3  Place the plantains in the oil and fry on both sides,; approximately 3 1/2 minutes per side. 4
Ready In. 1  Peel the plantain and cut it into 1-inch chunks. 2  Heat the oil in a large skillet. 3  Place the plantains in the oil and fry on both sides,; approximately 3 1/2 minutes per side. Cook. Ready In. 1  Peel the plantain and cut it into 1-inch chunks. 2  Heat the oil in a large skillet. 3  Place the plantains in the oil and fry on both sides,; approximately 3 1/2 minutes per side. 4  Remove the plantains from the pan and flatten the plantains by placing a plate over the fried plantains and pressing down.