And if your employer refuses to pay your benefits, you might be entitled to penalty payments as well. To apply for workers' compensation benefits, simply notify your employer-in writing-as soon as possible, but no later than 30 days after the injury.
You're prudent to check your state law. For example, if you're in California and you provide three days' notice, your employer has to issue your final paycheck within three days. California employers may be required to pay a penalty if they don't issue your paycheck within the state-mandated time. If you're in Wyoming, your employer has to issue your final pay within five days regardless of how much notice you give.
You must be off work sick for a minimum of four days before you can receive Statutory Sick Pay. You must also let your employer know about your sickness within the time limit they set in their sickness policy (or within 7 days if they do not set a deadline), otherwise you may lose out.
Your employer doesn't have to pay you to go (although I'm sure that is next), but if you give the proper notice and if your company is big enough, you can go. In fact, you can take off time to attend school functions up to 40 hours each year.
If you are applying for a job, an employer cannot ask you if you are disabled or ask about the nature or severity of your disability. An employer can ask if you can perform the duties of the job with or without reasonable accommodation.
You must be paid overtime (one and a half times your usual wage for every hour or fraction of an hour you work over eight hours in a day or over 40 hours in one week, and double time for every hour you work over 12 hours in a day) unless you are exempt from overtime.
4. Your employer cannot ask, require, or even allow you to work off the clock. If you're a non-exempt employee, you must be paid for all time worked. You can't waive this right. Moreover, your employer cannot give you comp time in lieu of overtime pay.
1 f there is no record of your hours or pay, start keeping one. 2  Every day you work, write down the time you start and the time you finish. 3  Write down if you took time for a meal break and how long the break was. 4  Write down every time you get paid, with the date and how much pay you received.