The National Motor Freight Traffic Association (NMFTA) created a freight classification system for all types of commodities to standardize freight pricing. This freight classification, including definitions of classes, is cataloged with National Motor Freight Classification tariff, commonly referred to as the NMFC. Shipping commodities are grouped into 18 freight classes between 50 and 500. 
The National Motor Freight Classification (NMFC) is a standard that provides a comparison of commodities moving in interstate, intrastate, and foreign commerce. It is similar in concept to the groupings or grading systems that serve many other industries. 
Freight classes are designed to help you get common standardized freight pricing for your shipment when working with different carriers, warehouses and brokers. The following table describes the NMFC classes and is meant for general guidance in picking your freight class, a number of factors influence what class your shipment ends up in. You should contact FML Freight Representative to determine an accurate freight class.
The National Motor Freight Classification ® (NMFC ®) is a standard that provides a comparison of commodities moving in interstate, intrastate and foreign commerce. It is similar in concept to the groupings or grading systems that serve many other industries. Commodities are grouped into one of 18 classes—from a low of class 50 to a high of class 500—based on an evaluation of four transportation characteristics: density, handling, stowability and liability. The National Motor Freight Classification is a comprehensive, invaluable resource for transportation and packaging professionals. To order the National Motor Freight Classification, please click here.
Freight Class is the category of your freight defined by the National Motor Freight Traffic Association. (NMFTA). It is also referred to as NMFC: National Motor Freight Classification. The class of your shipment is determined by its contents, as different types of products have different shipping costs. 
NMFC is a term used for National Motor Freight Classification. It is a standard which applies to provide certain comparisons of different commodities which are being transferred to inter and intra state or foreign commerce. 
The National Motor Freight Traffic Association publishes the National Motor Freight Classification™ (NMFC®), a standard that provides a comparison of commodities moving in commerce. The NMFC® is developed and maintained by the Commodity Classification Standards Board (CCSB). The NMFC® is a voluntary standard that provides a comparison of commodities moving in interstate, intrastate and foreign commerce. It is similar in concept to the groupings or grading systems that serve many other industries
Welcome to ClassIT®. ClassIT® provides carriers and shippers the National Motor Freight Classification (NMFC), a standard tool that compares commodities moving in interstate, intrastate and foreign commerce. Commodities are grouped into one of 18 classes from a low of class 50 to a high of class 500 based on an evaluation of four transportation characteristics: density, stowability, handling and liability. Together, these characteristics establish a commodity's transportability.
Freight classes (there are 18 of them) are based on weight, length and height, density, ease of handling, value and liability from things like theft, damage, break-ability and spoilage. For the most part, the lower the NMFC class number, the lower the freight charge. Part of FML’s job is to help you figure out your NMFC freight class, insuring the specialized code is correct. This insures that you get correct and consistent pricing for your freight. The following table describes the NMFC classes and is meant for general guidance in picking your freight class, a number of factors influence what class your shipment ends up in. You should contact FML Freight Representative to determine an accurate freight class.
It contains various rules that govern and otherwise relate to the classification and/or packaging of commodities. Without a working knowledge of how to use the National Motor Freight Classification (NMFC), you may not get the full benefits of this powerful tool. NMFTA offers a variety of training options, such as our one-day seminar, to help you get the most from the NMFC. Commodities are grouped into one of 18 classes from a low of class 50 to a high of class 500 based on an evaluation of four transportation characteristics: density, stowability, handling and liability. Together, these characteristics establish a commodity's transportability.