About the California Contractor License Exam. ​In order to qualify for a license you are required to take and pass a test administered by the Contractor State License Board. The California contractor license exam is challenging and most people need some outside assistance or study material in order to pass it. Contractor State License Center has been a contractor school in Los Angeles for over 20 years. The tests are multiple-choice. That is, you choose A, B, C, or D. There is no writing. The law test will consist of about 125 questions. The trade exams vary in length depending on your classification. There are about 80 to 125 questions on the trade, on average.
EXPERIENCE. You Need 4 years of experience within the last 10 years to qualify for any license. You will need a person that KNOWS of your experience to sign off on the State Application Form. If you're not sure, call in and we will go over your experience. 
For 25 years, CSLS has helped its students pass the California contractor licensing exam to become licensed contractors in the State of California. Additionally, we offer complete home study and online contractor’s license programs to help you pass your California contractor’s license exam. We guarantee you will pass the Contractors exam the first time. Contractors State License Services (CSLS) is the largest school in California devoted to the Construction professional.
That’s why we recommend taking a look at these five California contractor’s license schools that have a proven track record in assisting future contractors. Any of these will surely help you prepare confidently for the exam. Below, we’ve reviewed their main strengths and price ranges to make your choice easier: Top 5 California contractor’s license schools to prepare you for that stressful license exam. We believe that entrepreneurial spirit should be encouraged, especially in a field like construction.
The California Contractors License Exam. The California contractors license exam consists of the law and the trade portions. The exam is a multiple-choice test with the options of A, B, C, or D. The CSLB uses computerized exams to test the knowledge of the applicants. Contractors License Requirements. Before you can apply for California contractors license, you must meet the following experience requirements: 1  4 years of experience. 2  Be at least 18 years old.
Your experience and licensing in another state may help you qualify for a license but you still must be issued a license by the Arizona Registrar of Contractors. About Us -. Freedom Business School is a distance education learning school. We specialize in Contractors and Real Estate License courses for California. Arizona has reciprocity agreements with California, Nevada, and Utah which will let you skip any trade exam you already have a license for. To qualify for this you must: 1  have been licensed in good standing for five years or more.
EXPERIENCE. You Need 4 years of experience within the last 10 years to qualify for any license. You will need a person that KNOWS of your experience to sign off on the State Application Form. If you're not sure, call in and we will go over your experience. 
We can help you pass your California Contractors License Exam. With over 25 contractor license schools in California we provide full-service support to help you through this process. We guarantee you will pass the Contractors exam the first time. Contractors State License Services (CSLS) is the largest school in California devoted to the Construction professional.
Experience Requirements. You must have at least four (4) years of experience, in the class you are applying for, to qualify to take the examination. Credit for experience is given only for experience at a journey level or as a foreman, supervising employee, contractor, or owner-builder. These are defined as follows: You may receive credit of up to three (3) years for technical training, apprenticeship training, or education toward the four (4) years of required experience in the classification for which you are seeking licensure. At least one year must be practical experience.
You need a contractors license to bid on any project over $750 in Arizona. Arizona issues separate licenses for commercial and residential work for each particular trade or construction field. You'll have to pass an exam before you can apply for a license in Arizona. Arizona has reciprocity agreements with California, Nevada, and Utah which will let you skip any trade exam you already have a license for. To qualify for this you must: 1  have been licensed in good standing for five years or more.