The Domestic Cat, or its scientific name, Felius Catus, is a small predatory carnivorous species of crepuscular mammal that is valued by people as gets rid of pests such as mi … ce, rats, and other vermin. A cat is any animal of the family Felidae, or, more  generally, the domesticated subspecies of the animal, which has  been kept as a house pet for centuries. 6 people found this useful.
Cats are classified using taxonomic method of classification. They  are in the Animal Kingdom, Phylum Chordata, Class Mammalia, Order  Carnivora, Family Felidae, Genus Felis … and the species is Felis  catus. 4 people found this useful. The Domestic Cat, or its scientific name, Felius Catus, is a small predatory carnivorous species of crepuscular mammal that is valued by people as gets rid of pests such as mi … ce, rats, and other vermin.
Cats are classified using taxonomic method of classification. They  are in the Animal Kingdom, Phylum Chordata, Class Mammalia, Order  Carnivora, Family Felidae, Genus Felis … and the species is Felis  catus. 4 people found this useful. A cat is any animal of the family Felidae, or, more  generally, the domesticated subspecies of the animal, which has  been kept as a house pet for centuries. 6 people found this useful.
Family: Felidae. Genus: Felis. Species: Felis catus. ◊◊◊ The cat belongs in the Domain Eukarya because their cells have a nucleus and membrane-bound organelles. ◊◊◊. ◊◊◊ As a member of the kingdom Animalia, locomotion is a distinct characteristic. ◊◊◊. ◊◊◊ They are part of the phylum Chordata for many reasons. ◊◊◊ The genus Felis consists of all smaller cats. Also, this word is derived from the Latin word felix, which means happy and cats definitely show when they're happy-they purr. See adaptations.
The domestic cat (Felis catus or Felis silvestris catus) is a small, usually furry, domesticated, and carnivorous mammal. They are often called housecats when kept as indoor pets or simply cats when there is no need to distinguish them from other felids and felines. The domestic cat was first classified as Felis catus by Carolus Linnaeus in the 10th edition of his Systema Naturae published in 1758. Because of modern phylogenetics, domestic cats are usually regarded as another subspecies of the wildcat, F. silvestris.
Humans, of course, are Homo sapiens. The full classification for a lion would be: Kingdom, Animalia (animals); Phylum, Chordata (vertebrate animals); Class, Mammalia (mammals); Order, Carnivora (meat eaters); Family, Felidae (all cats); Genus, Panthera (great cats); Species, leo (lions). See also: Systematics, Taxonomy, and Classification. Scientific Classification. Classification, or taxonomy, is a system of categorizing living things. There are seven divisions in the system: (1) Kingdom; (2) Phylum or Division; (3) Class; (4) Order; (5) Family; (6) Genus; (7) Species. Kingdom is the broadest divis
Despite being solitary hunters, cats are a social species and cat communication includes the use of a variety of vocalizations (mewing, purring, trilling, hissing, growling, and grunting), as well as cat pheromones and types of cat-specific body language. The domestic cat was first classified as Felis catus by Carolus Linnaeus in the 10th edition of his Systema Naturae published in 1758. Because of modern phylogenetics, domestic cats are usually regarded as another subspecies of the wildcat, F. silvestris.
The domesticated cat is in the Animalia Kingdom, Chordata Phylum,  Mammalia Class, Carnivora Order, Felidae Family, Felis Genus, and  F. Cats Species. Despite being solitary … hunters, cats are a social  species. A cat is any animal of the family Felidae, or, more  generally, the domesticated subspecies of the animal, which has  been kept as a house pet for centuries. 6 people found this useful.