Noun. 1. prefrontal cortex-the anterior part of the frontal lobe. prefrontal lobe. cerebral cortex, cerebral mantle, cortex, pallium-the layer of unmyelinated neurons (the grey matter) forming the cortex of the cerebrum. lobe - (anatomy) a somewhat rounded subdivision of a bodily organ or part; ear lobe.
In mammalian brain anatomy, the prefrontal cortex (PFC) is the cerebral cortex which covers the front part of the frontal lobe. The PFC contains Brodmann areas 9, 10, 11, 12, 46, and 47. Many authors have indicated an integral link between a person's personality and the functions of the prefrontal cortex. This brain region has been implicated in planning complex cognitive behavior, personality expression, decision making, and moderating social behavior.
To define the prefrontal cortex as the projection zone of the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus builds on the work of Rose and Woolsey who showed that this nucleus projects to anterior and ventral parts of the brain in nonprimates. Many authors have indicated an integral link between a person's personality and the functions of the prefrontal cortex. This brain region has been implicated in planning complex cognitive behavior, personality expression, decision making, and moderating social behavior.
Prefrontal cortex. The prefrontal cortex is the anterior part of the frontal lobes of the brain, lying in front of the motor and premotor areas. This brain region has been implicated in planning complex cognitive behavior, personality expression, decision making, and moderating social behavior. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: prefrontal cortex (Noun). T
The ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) is a part of the prefrontal cortex in the mammalian brain. The ventral medial prefrontal is located in the frontal lobe at the bottom of the cerebral hemispheres and is implicated in the processing of risk and fear. 
the most anterior portion of the frontal lobe of each of the brain's cerebral hemispheres. It acts in attention, planning, and memory and is separated into a dorsolateral region and an orbito-frontal region. PREFRONTAL CORTEX: The prefrontal cortex is commonly referred to as the frontal association area.. No related posts.
The prefrontal cortex (PFC) is the anterior part of the frontal lobes of the brain, lying in front of the motor and premotor areas. This brain region has been implicated in planning complex cognitive behavior, personality expression, decision making, and moderating social behavior. 
The Prefrontal Cortex is that part of the brain located behind our forehead that is responsible for the executive function, meaning that it acts like a conductor communicating, guiding, and coordinating the functions of the different parts of the brain. 
Medical Definition of PREFRONTAL CORTEX. : the gray matter of the anterior part of the frontal lobe that is highly developed in humans and plays a role in the regulation of complex cognitive, emotional, and behavioral functioning. ADVERTISEMENT. noun. noun. : the gray matter of the anterior part of the frontal lobe that is highly developed in humans and plays a role in the regulation of complex cognitive, emotional, and behavioral functioning.