Difficulty: Average. Time Required: A few seconds to type or code a umlaut accented character. Here's How: 1  The umlaut accent marks are found on the upper and lower case vowels AE ä AE ä E ë E ë I ï I ï. 2  Oe ö Oe, ö ue ü ue ü ÿ ÿ on a mac hold down opt while.  typing the letter to create characters with umlaut accent marks 1
Report Abuse. When creating a document, in WORD, click on INSERT, then SYMBOLS. You should find an umlaut in there, already over either an E, an A, or a U. I think the person answering above me is confusing what an umlaut is. On my keyboard it's a ~ to the left of the 1 (I think it's called a tilde). I don't know how to insert an umlaut when we are typing in YAHOO ANSWERS though.
To create the umlaut symbol: 1  On a Mac, hold down the Option and U key. 2  Then press the letter you want. 3  For upper case, press Option and U, and then press Shift and the letter you want accented. 4  On a PC, hold down the Alt key while entering the number code. Create the umlaut symbols within an email. The umlaut symbol is a diacritic over a vowel such as ae, ä, oe, ö ue ü to indicate a vowel sound. Within your email to create: 1  The umlaut Symbol, on a mac Hold down The option.  and u key
Step 2. Press and hold down the “Alt” key. Type an umlaut capital A by typing 0196 or 142 or a lower-case A by typing 0228 or 132 (omit quotation marks here and throughout). Step 3. Press and hold down the “Alt” key. Type an umlaut capital E by typing 0203 or a lower-case e by typing 0235 or 137. Step 4. Press and hold down the “Alt” key. Type an umlaut capital I by typing 0207 or a lower-case i by typing 0239 or 139. Step 5. Press and hold down the “Alt” key. Type an umlaut capital O by typing 0214 or 153 or a lower-case o by typing 0246 or 148.
If you want a lowercase A with an umlaut, type the numbers 0228 on the keypad while holding down the alt key. If you want an uppercase A with an umlaut, hold down the alt key and type 0196. Hold down the alt key and type 0235 for a lowercase E with an umlaut. Hold down alt and type 0203 for an uppercase E with an umlaut. Hold down the alt key and type 0239 for a lowercase I with an umlaut. Hold down alt and type 0207 for an uppercase I with an umlaut. If you want an uppercase A, you would hold down option and the u key, release and then type the letter A. Hold down option and u, release, and then type the letter e for an umlaut over a lowercase E. If you want an uppercase E, you would hold down option and the u key, release and then type the letter E.
1 On a Mac, hold down Opt while typing the letter to create characters with umlaut accent marks. 2  Under Windows hold down ALT while typing the appropriate number code on your numeric keypad to create characters with umlaut accent marks. 1 The umlaut accent marks are found on the upper and lower case vowels AE ä AE ä E ë E ë I ï I ï. 2  Oe ö Oe, ö ue ü ue ü ÿ ÿ on a mac hold down opt while. 
NA. NA. On a US keyboard, hold down Ctrl and Shift while you press : (the colon key), release all of them, and then type the letter. This works for the vowels ae, ä, e, ë, i, ï oe (ö ue ü and ÿ) and their upper case versions because Those characters. are present in unicode fonts If you need to put an umlaut over any other letter, type the letter followed immediately by the number 0308, then press Alt+X. The Unicode character (hexadecimal) 0308 is the combining dieresis, meaning it's automatically positioned over whatever character is immediately to its left. http://jay-freedman.info.
The umlaut symbol is a diacritic over a vowel such as ae, ä, oe, ö ue ü to indicate a vowel sound. Within your email to create: 1  The umlaut Symbol, on a mac Hold down The option. 2  And u key then press the. 3  Letter you want, for Upper case Press, option and u And then press shift and the letter.  you want accented Create the umlaut symbols within an email. The umlaut symbol is a diacritic over a vowel such as ae, ä, oe, ö ue ü to indicate a vowel sound. Within your email to create: 1  The umlaut Symbol, on a mac Hold down The option.  and u key