Comments (2). A trust is a legal relationship which sets up a person or company (the trustee) to manage property for the benefit of another (the beneficiary). A trust is an estate-planning tool that can be used in addition to or instead of a will. Typical costs: 1 Whether it's a testamentary or living trust, the trustee is legally entitled to be paid for any work done, and can take reasonable fees out of the estate. 2  This will vary depending on the amount of work required and the complexity and value of the trust.
Typically, a “professional” trustee will charge $500-$1,500 dollars to set up the trust, $300-$600 dollars per year to maintain the trust, $25-$50 dollars for each signature that the trustee provides and $25-$50 dollars to perform administrative functions (like forwarding a real estate tax bill). 
Remember that the average trust costs $2,000 to $2,500 to set up, but there’s no probate. A trust eliminates the total cost of probate and that potential $10,000 probate fee. (The average fee to review and help settle an estate with a trust is about $500.). Now the total cost of your estate plan is $2,500. Compare this to using a will for your estate plan, which would cost $10,400.
Each type has advantages and disadvantages, which you should discuss thoroughly with your estate-planning attorney before setting one up. When it comes to cost, a basic trust plan may run anywhere from $1,600 to $3,000, or possibly more depending on the complexity of the trust. With a credit-shelter trust (also called a bypass or family trust), you write a will bequeathing an amount to the trust up to the estate-tax exemption. Then you pass the rest of your estate to your spouse tax-free.
When planning your estate, what costs more, a will or a trust? Since an attorney can prepare an average will for $400 to $500 and set up an average trust for about $2,000 to $2,500, your decision is made, right? (The average fee to review and help settle an estate with a trust is about $500.). Now the total cost of your estate plan is $2,500. Compare this to using a will for your estate plan, which would cost $10,400.
Estate or trust accounts are set up to provide a safe haven for assets as they are being passed on or used on the behalf of the account beneficiaries. The estate account holds funds for a short period of time while settling an estate after the death of the owner of the assets making up the account. 
1 An irrevocable living trust is commonly set up in order to shelter a Settlor’s property from his or her creditors or help him or her qualify for Medicaid without losing a home. 2  Once property is titled to an irrevocable trust, it cannot be taken back. 1 Trusts for minor children. 2  Trusts for minor children are commonly set up as Testamentary Trusts when a person wishes to leave an inheritance to a minor child, but does not wish for the child to have control of the property until he or she reaches a certain age.
1 Having an estate planning attorney create a basic trust starts around $900-$1,500, but a situation requiring a bit more evaluation and planning can run $1,500-$3,500 or more, depending on the complexity and the extent of the assets involved. 2  Do-it-yourself living trust kits are available for anywhere from $25-$500. 1 Whether it's a testamentary or living trust, the trustee is legally entitled to be paid for any work done, and can take reasonable fees out of the estate. 2  This will vary depending on the amount of work required and the complexity and value of the trust.
How to Set up a Trust for an Estate. A trust allows a party to dictate how his or her money is to be managed and distributed, and by whom, during his or her lifetime, and after death. 1 Trusts for minor children. 2  Trusts for minor children are commonly set up as Testamentary Trusts when a person wishes to leave an inheritance to a minor child, but does not wish for the child to have control of the property until he or she reaches a certain age.
Additional costs: 1  There are two types of trusts, testamentary and living. 2  A testamentary trust is outlined in your will and is created only after you die; these are typically set up for young children or other heirs who are considered to need someone to manage their assets for them. 1 Whether it's a testamentary or living trust, the trustee is legally entitled to be paid for any work done, and can take reasonable fees out of the estate. 2  This will vary depending on the amount of work required and the complexity and value of the trust.