Before you can teach nursing, you must become, at minimum, a registered nurse with a valid license and several years of work experience. Most nurse educators complete a master’s degree in nursing, although a doctorate is required to teach at most universities. Because nursing schools don’t have enough nurse educators to educate all the students who want to become nurses. Many government agencies, professional groups and nonprofit organizations have launched campaigns to encourage young people to choose a career in nurse education.
Research what it takes to become a nursing professor. Learn about licensure and education requirements, job outlook and salary to find out if this is the career for you. Schools offering Adult Education degrees can also be found in these popular choices. If you are interested in educating others and have a love of the nursing field, becoming a nursing professor might be the career path for you. Take a look at the following chart for an overview of how to enter this field
The duties of a nursing professor are many and varied. In addition to classroom teaching, they supervise and advise students, conduct clinical research and present scholarly work at nursing conferences. They may be asked to chair committees or even become deans of the colleges of nursing where they teach. They are at the forefront of every nursing student's education, teaching nursing in colleges, universities and hospital-based nursing schools. There is a high demand for nursing professors due to the increasing number of applicants to
Education Options for Nursing Professors. Your first option is a Bachelor of Science in Nursing (B.S.N.), a 4-year program where you could learn about the nursing profession, health promotion and patient care. If you are interested in educating others and have a love of the nursing field, becoming a nursing professor might be the career path for you. Take a look at the following chart for an overview of how to enter this field
Nursing Professor: Career and Salary Facts. Research what it takes to become a nursing professor. Learn about job duties, what kind of education and training is required and how much you could earn to find out if this is the career for you. Schools offering Adult Education degrees can also be found in these popular choices. 
Career Information At a Glance. If you are interested in educating others and have a love of the nursing field, becoming a nursing professor might be the career path for you. Take a look at the following chart for an overview of how to enter this field
0 Hi everyone, I am to obtain my BSN in nursing soon and I am interested in teaching. I been doing some research because I was thinking to about getting a MSN in nursing education. I looked online at faculty nursing jobs and they all want at least 5 years of experience and a variety of experience from different areas. Many want a Phd in nursing. After you have successfully made the transition to professional nurse, then you can start grad school -- perhaps part time with your employer paying much of the bill. You can continue to enrich your studies with real world experience -- and enrich your professional practice with further study. .
Salary and Outlook. The average salary for a nurse educator is $78,242 (assistant professor), but compensation depends greatly on how much clinical and teaching experience you have and where you teach. In addition, educators who work only during the academic year are paid their annual salary over those nine months. Because nursing schools don’t have enough nurse educators to educate all the students who want to become nurses. Many government agencies, professional groups and nonprofit organizations have launched campaigns to encourage young people to choose a career in nurse education.
Most work as nurses for a period of time before dedicating their careers (part-time or full-time) to educating future nurses. Nurse educators serve as faculty members in nursing schools and teaching hospitals, sharing their knowledge and skills to prepare the next generation of nurses for effective practice. Because nursing schools don’t have enough nurse educators to educate all the students who want to become nurses. Many government agencies, professional groups and nonprofit organizations have launched campaigns to encourage young people to choose a career in nurse education.