You can still plant your phlox. It will likely grow new stems from the roots. You can also try to root the broken stem. Shorten the stem to about 3 to 6 inches long with 2 to 6 leaf nodes. It's best to plant phlox in the spring as soon as the soil is workable. As your area gets very cold in the winter, be sure to add 4 to 6 inches of mulch in the fall as the soil freezes.
How to Grow Tall Garden Phlox. Many people wonder how to grow tall garden phlox. To get the maximum height from tall garden phlox, clip the weakest stems from the plant when they are about 6 inches tall, leaving only five or six stems on the plant. Pinch out the tips of the remaining stems to encourage a tall, bushy growth habit. Info on Garden Phlox. Garden phlox (Phlox paniculata), also called summer phlox, is a sun-loving perennial with a long flowering season. Large clusters of flowers, called panicles, sit atop stems that grow 3 to 4 feet tall. This native American wildflower thrives in USDA plant hardiness zones 4 to 8
Q: I planted orange perfection phlox last spring in the back of my garden because the tag said it would grow 3 to 4 feet tall. It's blooming now but it's only about 18 inches tall so it's sort of hidden. 
1 It is easier to grow phlox from cuttings/transplants than seeds. 2  Plant phlox in the spring and space the plants 1 to 2 feet apart. 3  If you are moving a plant from a pot, dig a hole about twice the size of the pot’s diameter and place the plant so that the top of the root ball is even with the soil’s surface. It's best to plant phlox in the spring as soon as the soil is workable. As your area gets very cold in the winter, be sure to add 4 to 6 inches of mulch in the fall as the soil freezes.
Plant phlox outdoors after all signs of frost have passed. Dig holes 6 to 24 inches (15 to 60 cm) apart depending on the species you are growing. Space shorter phlox varieties 6 to 12 inches (15 to 30 cm) apart. Space taller species 12 to 24 inches (30 to 60 cm) apart. The holes should be twice as wide as the plants' root balls.
1 Loosen the soil to about 12 to 15 inches deep, then mix in a 2- to 4-inch layer of compost. 2  It is easier to grow phlox from cuttings/transplants than seeds. 3  Plant phlox in the spring and space the plants 1 to 2 feet apart. It's best to plant phlox in the spring as soon as the soil is workable. As your area gets very cold in the winter, be sure to add 4 to 6 inches of mulch in the fall as the soil freezes.
1 Start when they are around 6 inches (15 cm) tall if you are growing a tall species of phlox. 2  Shorter phlox species that you are not growing as ground cover can also be pruned when they are 4 to 6 inches tall (10 to 15 cm). 3  10 Edit step. Space shorter phlox varieties 6 to 12 inches (15 to 30 cm) apart. Space taller species 12 to 24 inches (30 to 60 cm) apart. The holes should be twice as wide as the plants' root balls.
1 If you have tall phlox, cut the stems back to about 1 to 2 inches above the soil after the first killing frost. 2  Divide tall garden phlox every 2 to 3 years to ensure healthy and disease-free plants. It's best to plant phlox in the spring as soon as the soil is workable. As your area gets very cold in the winter, be sure to add 4 to 6 inches of mulch in the fall as the soil freezes.
Phlox plants are small and compact, growing just 8-10 inches tall. They have bright colored blossoms in shades of red, purple, scarlet, yellow, and white, some with a flirty eye. Phlox looks great wherever you put them on display. Try them in a sunny flowerbed. 