Enlarged nodes can be a sign of cancer spread. However, a pathology exam is the best way to assess lymph node status. Usually, a surgeon removes some lymph nodes in the underarm area (axillary nodes) with a technique called sentinel node biopsy. Then, a pathologist studies these nodes under a microscope. Number of lymph nodes with cancer. One of the most important findings from a pathologic exam is lymph node status. Prognosis is poorer when cancer has spread to the lymph nodes (lymph node-positive). The more lymph nodes that contain cancer, the poorer the prognosis tends to be [ 6 ].
Patients with oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma who had “matted” lymph nodes – nodes that are connected together – had a 69 percent survival rate over three years, compared to 94 percent for patients without matted nodes, according to a study published online ahead of print publication in Head & Neck. Independent of other factors, such as smoking history and HPV status, matted lymph nodes appear to signal increased chance of oropharyngeal cancer spreading to other parts of the body. Dr. Douglas Chepeha uses a scope outfitted with a small video camera to examine.
Patients with oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma who had matted lymph nodes-nodes that are connected together-had a 69 percent survival rate over three years, compared to 94 percent for patients without matted nodes, according to a study published online ahead of print publication in Head & Neck. 
Small, rounded structures along the small vessels of the lymphatic system that are part of the immune system. Lymph nodes are tiny spherical structures the size of a pin hea … d in groups into which the lymphatic vessels drain through afferent vessels. The nodes filter the lymph, storing and destroying microorganisms by the production of lymphocytes. Once filtered the lymph leaves the node through the efferent lymph vessel
Typically, when lymph nodes are referred to as 'matted' it means that upon palpation, the nodes appear to move in a connected fashion. Nodes that are matted can be either benign or malignant, but in malignant cases, 'matted nodes' typically is a portent of a poor prognosis. Lymph nodes are tiny spherical structures the size of a pin hea … d in groups into which the lymphatic vessels drain through afferent vessels. The nodes filter the lymph, storing and destroying microorganisms by the production of lymphocytes.
Lymphadenitis. Lymphadenitis is the medical term for an infection in one or more lymph nodes. Lymph nodes are filled with white blood cells that help your body fight off infections. When lymph nodes become infected, it's usually because an infection started somewhere else in your body. A lymph node is considered enlarged if it is about one-half inch wide. Symptoms caused by an infected lymph node or group of nodes may include: Nodes that increase in size suddenly. Nodes that are painful to touch. Nodes that are soft or matted together. Redness or red streaking of the skin over nodes.
As for any lymph node enlargement, matted nodes can also be due to benign (e.g.post-infection, granulomas etc) or malignant cause (e.g. lymphoma). Complete history and thorough physical examination represent the primary step that suggests possible causes and investigations accordingly. Nodes are generally considered to be normal if they are smaller than 1 cm in diameter; however, for inguinal nodes, those larger than 1.5 cm are generally considered abnormal. When these nodes are felt connected as one unit are named matted.
The 3-year disease-specific survival (DSS) for patients presenting with and without matted nodes was 69% and 94%, respectively (p = .003). Matted nodes were a poor prognostic factor independent of T classification, HPV, EGFR, and smoking status. N3 nodal disease was defined clinically as a lymph node or group of lymph nodes greater than 6 cm. Matted nodes were 1 of the nodal characteristics that were recorded and was defined as 3 nodes abutting one another with loss of intervening fat plane that is replaced with evidence of extracapsular spread (Figure 1).
CT scans demonstrating examples of matted nodes (A–C) and non-matted nodes (D–F). (A–C) Shows examples of patients with matted nodes demonstrated by the corresponding arrows. (A) Shows 3 matted nodes in level II of the left neck ... N3 nodal disease was defined clinically as a lymph node or group of lymph nodes greater than 6 cm. Matted nodes were 1 of the nodal characteristics that were recorded and was defined as 3 nodes abutting one another with loss of intervening fat plane that is replaced with evidence of extracapsular spread (Figure 1).
Of the patients with N2b with matted nodes, 3 of 6 (50%) died of their disease, and 3 of 23 (13%) with no evidence of matted nodes died of their disease. In the N2c group, there were 18 patients, of which 5 have matted nodes. N3 nodal disease was defined clinically as a lymph node or group of lymph nodes greater than 6 cm. Matted nodes were 1 of the nodal characteristics that were recorded and was defined as 3 nodes abutting one another with loss of intervening fat plane that is replaced with evidence of extracapsular spread (Figure 1).