1 Instate meal reimbursement and meal reimbursement for cities and counties not listed in the State of Arizona Meals/Lodging Per Diem Allowances are limited to $36.00 per day regardless of location. 2  United States Department of State Foreign Meals/Lodging Per Diem Allowances are available on the State Department website. 1 Per Diem Allowance: The following rates are available depending on the city and county to which the employee will travel. 2  To determine which rate applies, refer to the State of Arizona Meals/Lodging Per Diem Allowances.
A per diem allowance is a fixed amount of daily reimbursement your employer gives you for your lodging, meals, and incidental expenses when you are away from home on business. (The term incidental expenses is defined in chapter 1 under Standard Meal Allowance. The standard meal allowance is for a full 24-hour day of travel. If you travel for part of a day, such as on the days you depart and return, you must prorate the full-day M&IE rate. This rule also applies if your employer uses the regular federal per diem rate or the high-low rate.
(April 2007). Per diem (Latin for per day or for each day) is a daily allowance for expenses—a specific amount of money an organization gives an individual, often an employee, per day to cover living expenses when traveling for work. The purpose of the per diem payment (or the deduction of expenses when inadequate reimbursements are provided) is to alleviate the burden on taxpayers whose business or employment travel creates duplicated expenses.
For reimbursements for expenses for meals and other incidentals associated with business travel, employees get this exclusion for reimbursements for each day of travel up to the federal per diem rates without having to actually substantiate the amounts of the expenses. 
1 Reimbursement will not be allowed for per diem or other subsistence expenses incurred on the premises of a traveler's own residence or other non-commercial establishment. 2  A traveler shall be allowed reimbursement for actual cost of meals in accordance with these rules but not to exceed the per diem allowance rates. 1 Per Diem Allowance: The following rates are available depending on the city and county to which the employee will travel. 2  To determine which rate applies, refer to the State of Arizona Meals/Lodging Per Diem Allowances.
If a per diem plan is not a qualified per diem plan, the employee will be subject to various taxes and reporting obligations on the per diem payments, and could also lose his or her deduction for the expenses at issue. 
The standard meal allowance is for a full 24-hour day of travel. If you travel for part of a day, such as on the days you depart and return, you must prorate the full-day M&IE rate. This rule also applies if your employer uses the regular federal per diem rate or the high-low rate. You receive an allowance only for meals and incidental expenses when your employer does one of the following. Provides you with lodging (furnishes it in kind). Reimburses you, based on your receipts, for the actual cost of your lodging. Pays the hotel, motel, etc., directly for
A per diem can include part or all of the expenses incurred, for example it may exclude accommodation (for which reimbursement may be available on presentation of receipts) and only cover meals. Per diem is also used as an adjective and an adverb. The purpose of the per diem payment (or the deduction of expenses when inadequate reimbursements are provided) is to alleviate the burden on taxpayers whose business or employment travel creates duplicated expenses.
A reimbursement or other expense allowance arrangement is a system or plan that an employer uses to pay, substantiate, and recover the expenses, advances, reimbursements, and amounts charged to the employer for employee business expenses. Arrangements include per diem and car allowances. The standard meal allowance is for a full 24-hour day of travel. If you travel for part of a day, such as on the days you depart and return, you must prorate the full-day M&IE rate. This rule also applies if your employer uses the regular federal per diem rate or the high-low rate.
If your employer reimburses you for your expenses using a per diem or a car allowance, you can generally use the allowance as proof for the amount of your expenses. A per diem or car allowance satisfies the adequate accounting requirements for the amount of your expenses only if all the following conditions apply. You receive an allowance only for meals and incidental expenses when your employer does one of the following. Provides you with lodging (furnishes it in kind). Reimburses you, based on your receipts, for the actual cost of your lodging. Pays the hotel, motel, etc., directly for