The following write-up on phlegm color meaning provides information on what the color of phlegm says about the health of an individual. Advertisement. Phlegm refers to congealed mucus that is secreted by the mucous membranes of the respiratory tract. ► Coughing Up White or Gray Phlegm. White or gray phlegm can indicate upper respiratory tract infection or sinus congestion. Other significant causes of white mucus are: It is important to note that having milk or dairy products does not lead to production of white phlegm.
Allen Marshall MD. What the color of mucus – or snot – means is very misunderstood. The color of the mucus that comes out of your nose when you are sick, whether green, yellow or white, does not necessarily indicate a bacterial infection. 
Thick White Mucus. Main causes of thick, non-translucent, white mucus: 1  Drinking milk or other thick drinks can make originally clear mucus thick. 2  Milk may cover the back of the throat, but milk itself does not cause mucus. 3  In gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) , gastric acid may back up from esophagus into the windpipe and throat.
The body responds to the virus that causes a cold by making snot and phlegm -- and lots of it! Here's another fact about boogers: Snot that is dried by the air becomes a boogie. 1  Sneezes and Snot Travel Fast Sneezes travel 30 to 60 miles an hour, and can fly 30 feet through the air, Dr. Payne said. 
Color of nasal mucus and what it indicates : Clear mucus is a healthy sign. But if produced in excess it can be a symptom of flu, cold, acute sinusitis, sinus congestion, hayfever or an allergy. 
Green or Dark Yellow Phlegm. A thick and dark yellow phlegm may be a sign of a viral or bacterial infection, sinus infection, or lower respiratory tract infection. Typically, this occurs when the immune system sends white blood cells, known as neutrophils, to the area of infection. 
White Mucus. Nasal mucus, in an ideal state is clear. It is only when clear nasal mucus begins showing streaks of yellow, brown or green that one needs be wary as a change in nasal mucus color may be a sign of the start of a sinus infection. 
What your SNOT says about your health: Yellow mucus means you have a cold while black gunge is a sign of a fungal infection. 1  Most people produce about 1.7 litres of mucus a day-enough to fill a kettle. 2  As it is made from water, proteins, antibodies and salts, it should be clear. 
1 Bloody (hemoptysis). 2  Blood-streaked sputum – inflammation of throat, bronchi; lung cancer; 3  Pink sputum – sputum evenly mixed with blood, from alveoli, small bronchi; 4  Massive blood – cavitary tuberculosis of lung, lung abscess, bronchiectasis, infarction, embolism. Sputum ['spju.təm] is mucus that is coughed up from the lower airways. This process is known as sputilization. In medicine, sputum samples are usually used for microbiological investigations of respiratory infections and cytological investigations of respiratory systems.