prostate specific antigen, PSA (noun). a protein manufactured exclusively by the prostate gland; PSA is produced for the ejaculate where it liquifies the semen and allows sperm cells to swim freely; elevated levels of PSA in blood serum are associated with benign prostatic hyperplasia and prostate cancer. see more on Definitions.net ».
My personal collection includes cards from SGC, PSA, and BGS and I regularly list cards for sale from each of these companies. Each of the Big 3 has its merits and supporters within the industry; however, I strictly use SGC for all of my raw card gradings. PSA has only one grade above MINT 9, while SGC and BGS have two. SGC and BGS have a PRISTINE level which is considered the holy grail of grading and is rarely achieved. PRISTINE cards can sell for anywhere from 5x to 30x the price of the same card in GEM condition.
Anyone who have at least half of a brain know that PSA/DNA is a front for a legitimate company that authenticate anything and everything come across their way. No different from autograph authenticator Donald Frangipani who do the same s**t. The difference between PSA/DNA vs PSA/DNA ITP is that PSA/DNA ITP (In-The-Presence) is actually signed in the presence of the authenticator making it 100% real while PSA/DNA is just an opinion by the authenticator meaning they think it's real but still a little chance it can still be a fake.
Second is PSA/DNA, which is located in California. Here are some examples of items we sell authenticated by PSA/DNA. PSA/DNA Authentication. What these companies do once they receive your item, is they compare the autograph on your item to “known” authentic signatures. They check the slant, size, spacing, curves, etc.. of the autograph to make sure it closely matches the “known” authentic signatures. If all checks out, a certificate of authenticity is given. JSA and PSA will then apply their hologram # to your item and issue a “Witness” certificate of authenticity, meaning a JSA or PSA representative was present for the autograph signing.
For those collectors that require faster turnaround times, PSA/DNA offers on-site authentication at some trade shows across the country. The price range for this quick service ranges from $20.00 to $250.00. Turnaround time for authentication at these shows is one business day. Finally, PSA/DNA also offers bulk authentication for collectors with numerous items.
PSA/DNA has authenticated some of the most famous items in the history of sports including Hank Aaron’s 715the home run ball, the bat used by Babe Ruth to hit his first home run in Yankee Stadium, and Mickey Mantle’s 500 th home run ball. The price range for this quick service ranges from $20.00 to $250.00. Turnaround time for authentication at these shows is one business day. Finally, PSA/DNA also offers bulk authentication for collectors with numerous items.
The problem I have is he cites to: N-0 Authentic Only-This means that PSA is only certifying that the item is genuine, without a numerical grade. This may be due to the existence of an alteration, one with malice or otherwise, a major defect or the original submitter may have requested that PSA encapsulate the card without a grade. Looking at his FB I don't think he is a scam artist. He most likely has no idea what he is doing when it comes to cards. He did the right thing and sent the cards in to be graded. Just does not realize what PSA is trying to say that they are reprint.
How PSA/DNA Certification Helps You. When your autographed items are submitted to PSA/DNA, they are examined by the world's leading autograph experts. After they have been certified by PSA/DNA, you know that the industry's top experts are convinced your autograph is authentic. Each autograph is examined by at least three of PSA/DNA's autograph experts. 1 Confidence-Buyers can be confident that PSA/DNA Certified autographs have been examined for authenticity by the world's leading autograph experts. 2  Certified for Life-Because PSA/DNA uses an invisible, permanent DNA marker on each certified collectible, the authenticity is easily verified.
PSA/DNA Authentication. PSA/DNA is one of the most widely known companies for authenticating and grading autographed items and sports memorabilia. The company was founded in 1998 and utilizes an authentication system to determine if an autograph or piece of memorabilia is likely authentic. The price range for this quick service ranges from $20.00 to $250.00. Turnaround time for authentication at these shows is one business day. Finally, PSA/DNA also offers bulk authentication for collectors with numerous items.