Weekly Benefit RateThe amount of unemployment benefits you may receive each week is your Weekly Benefit Rate (WBR). The amount will be 60% of the average weekly earnings during your base year period.
The maximum amount you can receive in unemployment benefits is $275 a week and the minimum is $32 per week. The amount that you receive will vary depending on your Base period.
The state's $275 weekly maximum benefit hasn't changed in 10 years and is making the economic downturn more painful for Florida residents as more join the unemployment rolls each month. In Massachusetts, unemployed workers collect up to $600 a week. In Georgia, they take home up to $440 a week.
In Florida, your weekly benefit amount is calculated by dividing your total earnings for the highest paid quarter of the base period by 26, up to a current maximum of $275 per week. Benefits are available for up to 23 weeks; the exact number of weeks depends on the state's unemployment rate.
The maximum length of time you can claim unemployment benefits is 26 weeks. If the unemployment rate is 5% or lower, you can claim benefits for up to 12 weeks. For every .5% increase in the unemployment rate above 5%, a week is added to the duration of benefits.
The outcome is your maximum benefit amount per each benefit year, which is the 52 weeks following your original claim date. After that the AWI divides the most you can obtain each benefit year by the amount you will obtain each week, and the end result is the number of weeks you can receive unemployment.
Hawaii: (Maximum benefit of $560 a week) You may still receive unemployment benefits for a week if your gross earnings are less than your weekly benefit amount, you did not work full-time hours, and you meet all eligibility requirements and are not disqualified.
However, if your gross amount of pay was $3,000.00 in your highest quarter than your weekly benefit be $115.36 ($3,000.00 divided by 26 = $115.36). Yes, you can only receive a maximum of 26 weeks worth of unemployment in Florida. However, as of this posting (April 11, 2011), you may be eligible for extended benefits once you have used all 26 weeks within your benefit year. A benefit year is defined as a 1 year period that begins when you file your first claim.