1 Tracheal collapse is a chronic, progressive disease of the trachea that primarily strikes certain small breed dogs. 2  Tracheal collapse can be either congenital (present from birth) or acquired. 3  The acquired form of the condition is often caused by chronic respiratory disease, Cushing’s disease or heart disease. The collapse can involve the bronchi that feed air to the lungs, which results in serious airway obstruction in the dog. Symptoms Tracheal collapse is most common in small breed dogs like the Chihuahua, Lhasa apso, Maltese, Pomeranian, pug, Shih Tzu, toy poodle and the Yorkie.
Dog collapsed trachea is often the cause of obstruction of the airway and coughing in a dog. The direct cause is not known, but there are several factors that may contribute to the cause. Most commonly, the cause is likely abnormal synthesis of the cartilage in the trachea. 
In this article. Tracheal collapse is a common cause of airway obstruction in dogs. The trachea, or “windpipe,” is a tube made up of sturdy rings of cartilage through which air is transported to and from the lungs. Sometimes, however, the tracheal rings begin to collapse, and as air is squeezed through, a characteristic honking cough results. A honking cough in a toy-breed dog is highly suggestive of collapsing trachea, but a definitive diagnosis may require additional tests. Radiographs may reveal an obviously collapsed trachea, although not always.
The trachea, or windpipe, is the tube connecting the throat to the lungs. Small rings of cartilage along the tracheal wall maintain the tube shape. In the dog, these rings do not completely encircle the windpipe, but only cover about 5/6 (83%) of the circumference. A thin membrane of tissue completes the circle. 
Tracheal collapse is a chronic, progressive disease involving the windpipe, or trachea. The trachea is somewhat like a vacuum cleaner hose that contains small rings, in this case cartilage, that keep the airways open. The rings are C-shaped, with the open part of the C facing upward. 
Tracheal stent in a dog. Tracheal collapse in dogs is a condition characterized by incomplete formation or weakening of the cartilagenous rings of the trachea resulting in flattening of the trachea. It can be congenital or acquired, and extrathoracic or intrathoracic (inside or outside the thoracic cavity. 
Learn the dangers of a collapsed trachea in dogs. The trachea or windpipe connects your mouth and nose to the lungs. Made of muscle and cartilage, the trachea is the essential tube that brings the air you breathe to your lungs where the oxygen eventually travels to the bloodstream and organs. A collapsed trachea is rarely an issue in younger dogs. Most dogs with tracheal health issues develop problems around six or seven years of age. When a dog's trachea collapses, there are a number of symptoms.
Tracheal Collapse in Dogs. The trachea is the large tube that carries air from the nose and throat to the small airways (bronchi) that go to the lungs. Collapse of the trachea occurs when there is a narrowing of the tracheal cavity (lumen) during breathing.
The trachea (also known as a windpipe) is made up of hard rings of cartilage and carries air from the nose and throat to small airways (bronchi) that go to the lungs. Tracheal collapse is a common cause of airway obstruction that occurs when these rings of cartilage collapse. 