From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The superior vena cava (also known as the cava or cva) is a large diameter (24 mm), yet short, vein that carries deoxygenated blood from the upper half of the body to the heart 's right atrium. It is located in the anterior right superior mediastinum. 
The superior vena cava and inferior vena cava drain systemic venous blood into the posterior wall of the right atrium. The internal wall of the right atrium is composed of a smooth posterior portion (into which the vena cavae and coronary sinus drain) and a ridgelike, muscular anterior portion. The coronary sinus is a short (approximately 2 cm) and wide venous channel that runs from left to right in the posterior portion of the coronary groove. The opening of the coronary sinus is located between the right AV orifice and the inferior vena cava orifice.
Inferior vena cava. The inferior vena cava is also referred to as the posterior vena cava. The inferior vena cava is a large vein that carries de-oxygenated blood from the lower body to the heart. De-oxygenated blood means most of the oxygen has been removed by tissues, and therefore the blood is darker
After circulating through the body systemically, deoxygenated blood returns to the right atrium of the heart through either the SVC, which drains the upper body, or the inferior vena cava (IVC) that drains everything below the diaphragm. 
Superior vena cava. The lung consists of five lobes. The left lung has a superior and inferior lobe, while the right lung has superior, middle, and inferior lobes. Thin walls of tissue called fissures separate the different lobes. The superior lobes of each lung are the uppermost pieces, also called the upper lobes.
The inferior vena cava empties into the right atrium of the heart. The right atrium is located on the lower right back side of the heart. The inferior vena cava runs posterior, or behind, the abdominal cavity. This vein also runs alongside the right vertebral column of the spine. The inferior vena cava is the result of two major leg veins coming together. The inferior vena cava is also referred to as the posterior vena cava. The inferior vena cava is a large vein that carries de-oxygenated blood from the lower body to
inferior vena cava the venous trunk for the lower extremities and the pelvic and abdominal viscera; it empties into the right atrium of the heart. See Appendix 2-6. superior vena cava the venous trunk draining blood from the head, neck, upper extremities, and chest; it empties into the right atrium of the heart. As it passes through the diaphragm, it receives a covering of serous pericardium. The inferior vena cava contains a semilunar valve that is rudimentary in the adult but very large and important in the fetus. The vessel receives blood from the two common iliacs, the lumbar veins, and the testicular veins.
Vena cava: The superior vena cava is the large vein which returns blood to the heart from the head, neck and both upper limbs. The inferior vena cava returns blood to the heart from the lower part of the body. The return of blood via the vena cava can be compromised and cause disease. For example, in the superior vena cava syndrome, the symptoms that result from compression of the large vein that carries blood down to the heart. The superior vena cava is located in the middle of the chest and is surrounded by rigid structures and lymph nodes.
Deoxygenated blood enters the right atrium through three major veins: the superior and inferior vena cava and the coronary sinus. The superior vena cava returns all of the blood to the heart from tissues superior to the heart in the head, neck, arms and upper thorax. Likewise, the inferior vena cava returns blood to the heart from tissues inferior to the heart, including the legs, abdomen and lower thorax. Blood from the exterior of the heart itself is collected in the coronary sinus to be returned to the interior of the heart.