If you have 10 or more years of service and are retiring at the Minimum Retirement Age, your annuity will be reduced for each month that you are under age 62. The reduction is 5% per year (5/12 of a percent per month). 1 If you retire under the MRA+10 provision. 2  If you have 10 or more years of service and retire at the Minimum Retirement Age (MRA), your benefit will be reduced by 5/12 of 1% for each full month (5% per year) that you were under age 62 on the date your annuity began.
There is a fallacy in circulation that Americans tend to stop working in their early 60s, shortly after becoming eligible for reduced Social Security benefits at age 62 and well before the designated “full” retirement age of 66 (Rivlin 2010). As this issue brief shows: For example, for workers born in 1944 (the cohort that attained Social Security’s normal retirement age of 66 in 2010), the CRR methodology yields an average retirement age of 62.2 for men and women combined (Figure C). However, the labor force participation rate for this cohort peaked at 84.3 percent at age 46.
The average retirement age is defined as the average age at which individuals within a certain group or demographic retire from employment. This age is not a stable number that remains the same over generations. Instead, it changes, varying according to trends in employment, retirement, and life expectancy. For example, in the United States, the average age at which individuals retired in 1910 was 74 years old. In 2002, however, the age was 62. Many people confuse the average retirement age with the normal or full retirement age. In the United States, the full or normal age of retirement is the age at which a person can begin to receive full Social Security benefits. This is different from the average age at which citizens of the United States retire
Just 9 percent of workers say they are planning to retire before age 60, but 35 percent of retirees say they retired that early. The median retirement age in the survey was 62. Many of these early retirements are unexpected and due to unforeseen circumstances. 
Example-Early retirement: Sandy, a PERS Plan 2 member, applies for retirement at age 56 years and one month with a total of 21.11 years of service. Her average final compensation (AFC) is $3,500.00. PERS Plan 2 provides for two percent (.02) of AFC per year of service. The difference between Sandy's age now (56) and the age at which she would have qualified for normal retirement (age 65) is 8 years and 11 months. For illustration purposes in this example only, we will use 0.3987 as the corresponding ERF for retiring 8 years and 11 months early (actuarial factors change periodically).
Early retirement can be at any age, but is generally before the age (or tenure) needed for eligibility for support and funds from government or employer-provided sources. Thus, early-retirees rely on their own savings and investments to be initially self-supporting, until they start receiving such external support. 
If a worker begins receiving benefits before his/her normal (or full) retirement age, the worker will receive a reduced benefit. A worker can choose to retire as early as age 62, but doing so may result in a reduction of as much as 30 percent. Starting to receive benefits after normal retirement age may result in larger benefits. With delayed retirement credits, a person can receive his or her largest benefit by retiring at age 70. Early retirement reduces benefits. In the case of early retirement, a benefit is reduced 5/9 of one percent for each month before normal retirement age, up to 36 months. If the number of months exceeds 36, then the benefit is further reduced 5/12 of one percent per month. 
1 If you have 10 or more years of service and retire at the Minimum Retirement Age (MRA), your benefit will be reduced by 5/12 of 1% for each full month (5% per year) that you were under age 62 on the date your annuity began. 1 If you retire under the MRA+10 provision. 2 
In the 1960s, men tended to retire after age 65, but over the next several decades, early retirement became more common, with average retirement age dipping below 62 by the mid-1990s. In the past 20 years, though, that downtrend reversed itself, and average retirement ages have sharply increased. Dreams of early retirement aren't as common as you might think. Image source: Pixabay Retirement is an important milestone in everyone's life, and most people plan for years in anticipation of the day on which they leave their jobs for the last time.