Brass has a relatively low melting point compared to iron, steel, or gold, but it still requires a special furnace. Many beginning metalworking hobbyists start out with aluminum, which is easier to melt, but brass is often the next step. Most brass will melt at temperatures as low as 1,650ºF (900ºC), but a higher maximum temperature will give you a margin of error, and make the brass easier to pour. 1  Select a furnace large enough to hold the crucible and brass you intend to melt. 2  Consider the fuel you will be using. 3  3 Edit step.
Melting temperature of some common metals and alloys. Melting point is the temperature at which a substance changes from solid to liquid state. Melting points for some metals and alloys are indicated below. 
The melting point (or, rarely, liquefaction point) of a solid is the temperature at which it changes state from solid to liquid at atmospheric pressure. At the melting point the solid and liquid phase exist in equilibrium. The melting point of a substance depends on pressure and is usually specified at standard pressure. When considered as the temperature of the reverse change from liquid to solid, it is referred to as the freezing point or crystallization point.
How to Melt Copper. Copper is a transition metal that readily conducts heat and electricity, making it a valuable substance in the construction of numerous items. Copper is melted either as ingots for storage or sale, or for casting another object, such as jewelry. http://pad3.whstatic.com/images/thumb/a/a1/Melt-Copper-Step-1-preview.jpg/300px-Melt-Copper-Step-1-preview.jpg. //d5kh2btv85w9n.cloudfront.net/2/26/Melt Copper Step 1.360p.mp4. 1  US pennies made between 1909 and 1982 are made of 95% copper. 2  It is against the law to melt US coins for the purpose of obtaining the metals.
We had sold them braze alloy and told them the melting point was 1305 Fahrenheit. They built an assembly with the braze alloy in the middle, put it in an oven, ran the temperature up to 1305F and then let the oven cool. This process had worked when they were using Bag-3, which is 50% silver braze alloy with cadmium. 
Ilya Stcherbakov/iStock/Getty Images. 1,688 degrees Fahrenheit is an extremely hot temperature; however, in metallurgy it is considered a low melting point. Compared to iron's melting point -- 2,786 degrees Fahrenheit -- the average melting point of brass at 1,688 makes it a low-melting alloy. Load the crucible with the brass that you would like to melt down. Use a crucible that is made from a clay-graphite mix, as metal crucibles may melt during the process. Lower the crucible into the furnace with a pair of tongs. Use long-handled tongs made for metal casting.
Anybody know what brass's melting temp is? and how one might go about melting brass down at home? reason being I have LOTS of no longer usable brass casings that I was gong to scrap but the srap yards that take copper/brass wont take ammunition even with the bullet/powder/primer removed. 
Sterling Silver melts at 1650 F, about 100 degrees less that pure silver because it is an alloy of 92.5% silver. You are not likely to use pure silver because it is too soft. Generally you melt your metal in a crucible, usually in an oven(not yout home oven, one made for casting), although a mega torch can do it. 
Not all brass is made the same way. The melting point of red brass  is 1,832 degrees Fahrenheit. The melting point of yellow brass is  1,660-1,710 degrees Fahrenheit, and th … e melting point of admiralty  brass is 1,650-1,720 degrees Fahrenheit. Melting temperature is the point where a substance is reduced to a liquid (this is the state it changes to). the usual melting point of substances is 100 degrees or higher.