Chemical Properties are the characteristics of a substance that determine how it will react with other substances. Chemical properties is a characteristic of pure substance … s that describes it's ability to change into different substances. The chemical property of a given element refers to the property that is used to characterize the reaction of the materials hence their identity.
A chemical property is any characteristic that gives a substance the ability to undergo a change that results in a new substance. Example: Matches are permanently changed and black after they are burned. Therefore this property can be observed only by changing the composition of the match. The chemical property of a given element refers to the property that is used to characterize the reaction of the materials hence their identity.
Each of these are chemical properties. Now you can better understand what a chemical property is. Chemical properties are characteristics of a material that become evident when the material undergoes a chemical reaction or chemical change. Chemical properties can only be established by changing a substance’s chemical identity, and are different from physical properties, which can be observed by viewing or touching a sample. The internal qualities of a substance must be altered to determine its chemical properties. For example:
For example, a physical property of water is that … it freezes at a temperature of 0 degrees Celsius. A chemical property is a characteristic of a pure substance that describes its ability to change into different substances. For example, a chemical property of methane is that it can catch fire and burn in air. Physical properties can be observed or measured without changing the composition of matter. The chemical property of a given element refers to the property that is used to characterize the reaction of the materials hence their identity.
Examples of this chemical property is a calorie which converts to energy within the body and the amount of heat generated by the burning of various fuels. 1  Toxicity-How much a substance can damage an animal, plant, cell, organ, or other organism is its toxicity. Chemical properties can only be established by changing a substance’s chemical identity, and are different from physical properties, which can be observed by viewing or touching a sample. The internal qualities of a substance must be altered to determine its chemical properties. For example:
Chemical properties of matter describes its potential to undergo some chemical change or reaction by virtue of its composition. What elements, electrons, and bonding are present to give the potential for chemical change. It is quite difficult to define a chemical property without using the word change. 
Chemical properties are any of the properties of matter that may only be observed and measured by performing a chemical change or chemical reaction. Chemical properties cannot be determined by touching or viewing a sample; the structure of the sample must be altered for the chemical properties to become apparent. 
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (December 2009). A chemical property is any of a material's properties that becomes evident during, or after, a chemical reaction; that is, any quality that can be established only by changing a substance's chemical identity. Chemical properties can be used for building chemical classifications. They can also be useful to identify an unknown substance or to separate or purify it from other substances. Materials science will normally consider the chemical properties of a substance to guide its applications.
Flammability is a chemical property. PM Images, Getty Images. Chemical Property Definition: A chemical property is a property or behavior of a substance when it undergoes a chemical change or reaction. Examples: Chemical properties of a substance can include toxicity, oxidation, and flammability. Iron oxidizes and becomes rust
Definition of Chemical Properties of Matter. As you look at the things around you it is easy to see many of their physical properties such as color, shape, and size. Some properties of a substance are not as obvious unless the substance has changed composition as a result of a chemical reaction. A chemical property is the ability of a substance to combine with or change into one or more other substances.