1 Thai Baht banknotes are also accepted as a means of payment in Laos and Cambodia. 2  You can exchange these Thai Baht banknotes at your bank or in a bureaux de change-currency exchange office. 3  You can also exchange your Thai Bath notes using our online leftover currency exchange service, free of charge. 1 You can exchange these Thai Baht banknotes at your bank or in a bureaux de change-currency exchange office. 2  You can also exchange your Thai Bath notes using our online leftover currency exchange service, free of charge. 3  To exchange your Thai Baht THB bank notes: Fill out our exchange form.
10-Baht. The 10-Baht note is brownish in colour and the smallest of the available notes. Since the introduction of the 10-Baht coin there has been an attempt to take the note out of circulation, although there has been some resistance to this as it is believed removal of the note will lessen the value of the currency. The 1,000-Baht note is printed in a brownish colour on a white background. The note has been in circulation for about 10 years with the original version (not shown) slightly bigger than the notes currently available.
Current Thai Bath banknotes, in circulation. 1  The Baht banknotes shown above are still a valid means of payment in Thailand. 2  Thai Baht banknotes are also accepted as a means of payment in Laos and Cambodia. 3  You can exchange these Thai Baht banknotes at your bank or in a bureaux de change-currency exchange office. 1 You can exchange these Thai Baht banknotes at your bank or in a bureaux de change-currency exchange office. 2  You can also exchange your Thai Bath notes using our online leftover currency exchange service, free of charge. 3  To exchange your Thai Baht THB bank notes: Fill out our exchange form.
The Bank of Thailand assumes the role of the central bank of the country that is in existence since 1942 when it took over the Thai National Banking Bureau. Along with issuance of the currency, the Bank of Thailand is also responsible for the printing of the baht banknotes. The banknotes are issued in 5 denominations that are 20, 50, 100, 500 and 1000 bahts and have different color pattern for each face value so as to make them look different from each other. Baht is the official currency unit of the kingdom of Thailand. It has been serving as the national currency since 1897 and had been in existence from even before it was made the national currency. It is known as Thai baht and is denoted with the symbol ฿.
Officially throughout the country only the national currency of Thailand – Thai baht – is accepted. But if you have just arrived and did not have time for the currency exchange then you can pay for taxi in dollars or euros, where in fact it is difficult not to overpay. Read more about the currency exchange rates, Thai baht rates to other currencies and about bank cards and travel checks in a special article. Thai Baht has been the national currency of the Kingdom of Thailand since April 15, 1928.
Thailand, Baht. The Thai Baht is the currency of Thailand. Our currency rankings show that the most popular Thailand Baht exchange rate is the THB to EUR rate. The currency code for Baht is THB, and the currency symbol is ฿. Below, you'll find Thai Baht rates and a currency converter
1 The Baht banknotes shown above are still a valid means of payment in Thailand. 2  Thai Baht banknotes are also accepted as a means of payment in Laos and Cambodia. 3  You can exchange these Thai Baht banknotes at your bank or in a bureaux de change-currency exchange office. 1 You can exchange these Thai Baht banknotes at your bank or in a bureaux de change-currency exchange office. 2  You can also exchange your Thai Bath notes using our online leftover currency exchange service, free of charge. 3  To exchange your Thai Baht THB bank notes: Fill out our exchange form.
The Thai baht, like the pound, originated from a traditional unit of mass. Its currency value was originally expressed as that of silver of corresponding weight (now defined as 15 grams), and was in use probably as early as the Sukhothai period in the form of bullet coins known in Thai as phot duang (Thai: พดด้วง). The baht (Thai: บาท, sign : ฿ ; code: THB) is the currency of Thailand. It is subdivided into 100 satang (สตางค์). The issuance of currency is the responsibility of the Bank of Thailand. According to SWIFT, as of October 2014, the Thai baht ranked as the tenth most frequently used world payment currency