Systemic feline diseases (parasitic, bacterial, fungal, viral, neoplastic, metabolic, vascular, and immune-mediated) are often associated with ocular symptoms. An ocular examination is an important diagnostic tool and should be part of any physical examination. Histoplasmosis is the second most common systemic fungal infection of cats. 30 The etiological agent of American histoplasmosis is the soil-borne, dimorphic fungus Histoplasma capsulatum. 41 Most clinical cases occur in the Ohio, Missouri, and Mississippi river valleys and Texas. 42.
Systemic lupus erythematosus. From Cat. Systemic Lupus Erythematosus is a rare skin disease of cats and has a similar immune-mediated history similar to feline Pemphigus. Two variants of lupus have been diagnosed in cats. Confirmation of a diagnosis cannot be made solely on histological sampling of skin lesions, but must be also based on blood results, urinalysis, and clinical history. Commonly find proteinuria and anaemia in chronic cases.
SLE is a rare multisystemic autoimmune disease of cats. The aetiology of the disease is unknown and may be multifactorial. The cutaneous signs of SLE in cats are variable and include any combination of the following: erythema, scaling, erosions, mucocutaneous ulceration, crusts, alopecia, and depigmentation. Two variants of lupus have been diagnosed in cats. Confirmation of a diagnosis cannot be made solely on histological sampling of skin lesions, but must be also based on blood results, urinalysis, and clinical history. Commonly find proteinuria and anaemia in chronic cases.
This paper is intended to review the ocular manifestations of systemic (parasitic, bacterial, fungal, viral, neoplastic, metabolic, vascular, and immune-mediated) diseases in the feline. The reader is encouraged to read other comprehensive reviews of these diseases. Histoplasmosis is the second most common systemic fungal infection of cats. 30 The etiological agent of American histoplasmosis is the soil-borne, dimorphic fungus Histoplasma capsulatum. 41 Most clinical cases occur in the Ohio, Missouri, and Mississippi river valleys and Texas. 42.
Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE) in Cats. Autoimmune diseases are the result of an immune system that has become hyper-defensive, attacking the cells, tissues, and organs of its own body as if they are diseases that need to be destroyed. Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a multisystem autoimmune disease that is characterized by the formation of antibodies against a wide array of self-antigens (antibody-generating substances) and circulating immune complexes.
PRACTICAL RELEVANCE: A number of systemic diseases are associated with neurological deficits. Most systemic diseases that impact on the nervous system result in multifocal neurological signs; however, isolated deficits can also be observed. This article reviews the clinical signs, pathophysiology, diagnosis, treatment and prognosis of four important systemic diseases with neurological consequences: feline infectious peritonitis, toxoplasmosis, hypertension and hepatic encephalopathy.
Some systemic diseases can become symptomatic as a skin disorder. In cats this includes one of the most devastating cat skin disorders, feline acquired skin fragility syndrome, which can come from starvation or over-treatment with cortisone-like drugs or with diabetes, FIP or Cushings Disease. Skin disease may result from deficiencies in immune system function. In cats, the most common cause of immune deficiency is infection with retroviruses, FIV or FeLV, and cats with these chronic infections are subject to repeated bouts of skin infection and abscesses.
Cryptococcosis occurs worldwide and is the most common systemic fungal infection of cats. Cryptococcus neoformans is a saprophytic, round, yeast-like fungus (3.5–7 μm in diameter) with the ability to form large capsules. Histoplasmosis is the second most common systemic fungal infection of cats. 30 The etiological agent of American histoplasmosis is the soil-borne, dimorphic fungus Histoplasma capsulatum. 41 Most clinical cases occur in the Ohio, Missouri, and Mississippi river valleys and Texas. 42.
Cat skin disorders are among the most common health problems in cats. Skin disorders in cats have many causes, and many of the common skin disorders that afflict people have a counterpart in cats. The condition of a cat's skin and coat can also be an important indicator of its general health. Skin disease may result from deficiencies in immune system function. In cats, the most common cause of immune deficiency is infection with retroviruses, FIV or FeLV, and cats with these chronic infections are subject to repeated bouts of skin infection and abscesses.
The most common ocular manifestation of feline systemic histoplasmosis is granulomatous chorioretinitis. Other ocular associations include discharge, blepharospasm, conjunctivitis, chemosis, retinal detachment, and secondary glaucoma. 45 Conjunctival, mucus membrane, and skin granulomas may also develop (Fig. 3). Histoplasmosis is the second most common systemic fungal infection of cats. 30 The etiological agent of American histoplasmosis is the soil-borne, dimorphic fungus Histoplasma capsulatum. 41 Most clinical cases occur in the Ohio, Missouri, and Mississippi river valleys and Texas. 42.