Alprazolam is mostly used to treat anxiety disorders, panic disorders, and nausea due to chemotherapy. The FDA label advises that the physician should periodically reassess the usefulness of the drug. In the United States, alprazolam is FDA-approved for the treatment of panic disorder with or without agoraphobia. Alprazolam is recommended by the World Federation of Societies of Biological Psychiatry (WFSBP) for treatment-resistant cases of panic disorder where there is no history of tolerance or dependence.
It is commonly used for the treatment of panic disorder, and anxiety disorders, such as generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) or social anxiety disorder (SAD). It was the 12th most prescribed medicine in 2010. Alprazolam, like other benzodiazepines, binds to specific sites on the GABAA receptor. In the United States, alprazolam is FDA-approved for the treatment of panic disorder with or without agoraphobia. Alprazolam is recommended by the World Federation of Societies of Biological Psychiatry (WFSBP) for treatment-resistant cases of panic disorder where there is no history of tolerance or dependence.
Changes to the laws surrounding alprazolam Information for patients Alprazolam is a potent, fast-acting, prescription only medication which belongs to a group of medicines called ‘benzodiazepines’. A. increase in the number of. http://www.tga.gov.au/industry/scheduling-decisions-1306-final-03-acms.htm. Alprazolam is a potent, fast-acting, prescription only medication which belongs to a. group of medicines called ‘benzodiazepines’. lprazolam is available under brand. names such as Xanax®, Kalma®, Alprax®, Ralozam® amongst others.
Uses. Alprazolam is used to treat anxiety and panic disorders. It belongs to a class of medications called benzodiazepines which act on the brain and nerves (central nervous system) to produce a calming effect. It works by enhancing the effects of a certain natural chemical in the body (GABA).
Alprazolam /aelˈpraezəlaem/ ælˈpræzəlæm /or/ , aelˈpreɪzəlaem ælˈpreɪzəlæm available as the Trade /name/ xanax ˈzaenaeks, ˈzænæks among others-is a short acting anxiolytic of. the benzodiazepine class In the United States, alprazolam is FDA-approved for the treatment of panic disorder with or without agoraphobia. Alprazolam is recommended by the World Federation of Societies of Biological Psychiatry (WFSBP) for treatment-resistant cases of panic disorder where there is no history of tolerance or dependence.
1 Xanax is a member of the benzodiazepine family of drugs and is primarily used to treat anxiety and panic disorders. 2  Xanax are dispensed in 0.25 mg, 0.5 mg, 1 mg and 2 mg strengths. 3  The drug is 10 to 20 times as potent as Valium of the same dosage. More detail and supporting information is in the main article. 1  Xanax (alprazolam) is the single most prescribed psychiatric medication in the US. 2 
Answers. Best Answer: Xanax XR is extended release alprazolam. Alprazolam is in a group of drugs called benzodiazepines. It affects chemicals in the brain that may become unbalanced and cause anxiety. Alprazolam is used to treat anxiety disorders, panic disorders, and anxiety caused by depression. It is definitely available in Australia. Source(s): http://www.drugs.com/xanax_xr.html.
Alprazolam /aelˈpraezəlaem/ ælˈpræzəlæm /or/ , aelˈpreɪzəlaem ælˈpreɪzəlæm available as the Trade /name/ xanax ˈzaenaeks, ˈzænæks among others-is a short acting anxiolytic of. The benzodiazepine class it is commonly used for the treatment, of panic disorder, and anxiety disorders such as (GENERALIZED) anxiety disorder gad or (SOCIAL). anxiety disorder sad In the United States, alprazolam is FDA-approved for the treatment of panic disorder with or without agoraphobia. Alprazolam is recommended by the World Federation of Societies of Biological Psychiatry (WFSBP) for treatment-resistant cases of panic disorder where there is no history of tolerance or dependence.
Xanax is the brand name for a drug called alprazolam. Xanax is a type of medication called a benzodiazepine, which is a central nervous system depressant that decreases abnormal excitement in the brain. Doctors most frequently prescribe Xanax as a tablet, but it can also come in a liquid concentration as well. You may even develop a physical dependence on Xanax, which can cause withdrawal symptoms if you stop taking the medication suddenly. However, many patients with anxiety disorders, do not develop clinical dependence on Xanax. And keep in mind that chemical dependence is difference than drug addiction.