For example, oranges and lemonade are high in potassium and calcium, but have comparatively less amount of magnesium. Raw longans are rich in potassium and magnesium and contain low percentage of calcium. Note that the list given here is not comprehensive, and only includes some common food items. You can find many other foods that are rich sources of these minerals. Let us take a look at the list of food items that are rich in one or more of these minerals. List of Foods Rich in Potassium, Calcium and Magnesium. A diet that does not include rich sources of potassium, calcium and magnesium, may lead to high blood pressure and many other health problems.
Foods Rich In Calcium. Foods such as milk, cheese and yogurt contain calcium. So do dark leafy vegetables. Kale, turnip greens, broccoli, brussel sprouts and cabbage are rich sources of calcium. Canned fish (with bones), such as salmon, sardines and mackerel are also good choices. Fruits rich in potassium include bananas, apricots, prunes, dates, cantaloupe, watermelon and strawberries. Foods such as salmon, beans, turkey and fish also contain potassium as do peas, greens, spinach and tomatoes. If you are consuming three of these items a day, you are probably getting enough potass
Consuming foods high in these minerals, is always a safer and better option than consuming supplements. The table given below enlists the foods that are rich in potassium, calcium and magnesium, along with the amount of these minerals, contained in each. Let us take a look at the list of food items that are rich in one or more of these minerals. List of Foods Rich in Potassium, Calcium and Magnesium. A diet that does not include rich sources of potassium, calcium and magnesium, may lead to high blood pressure and many other health problems.
Adding more of certain grains to your diet also helps you get more calcium, magnesium and potassium. Teff, a small grain from Ethiopia, and amaranth and quinoa, two slightly nutty-flavored grains from South America, are some of the grains highest in all three nutrients. According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, certain nuts and seeds contain potassium, magnesium and calcium. Eating dried pumpkin seeds, almonds, cashews and pistachios boosts your intake of these minerals.
Foods high in potassium, calcium and magnesium play an important role in the diet of hypertension patients, because these minerals exhibit great effects of lowering blood pressure. Here is a list of foods rich in potassium, calcium and magnesium... Let us take a look at the list of food items that are rich in one or more of these minerals. List of Foods Rich in Potassium, Calcium and Magnesium. A diet that does not include rich sources of potassium, calcium and magnesium, may lead to high blood pressure and many other health problems.
Food. Magnesium is widely distributed in plant and animal foods and in beverages. Green leafy vegetables, such as spinach, legumes, nuts, seeds, and whole grains, are good sources [ 1, 3 ]. In general, foods containing dietary fiber provide magnesium. Magnesium is also added to some breakfast cereals and other fortified foods. Some types of food processing, such as refining grains in ways that remove the nutrient-rich germ and bran, lower magnesium content substantially [ 1 ]. Selected food sources of magnesium are listed in Table 2
Foods Containing Potassium. Fruits rich in potassium include bananas, apricots, prunes, dates, cantaloupe, watermelon and strawberries. Foods such as salmon, beans, turkey and fish also contain potassium as do peas, greens, spinach and tomatoes. If you are consuming three of these items a day, you are probably getting enough potassium. So do dark leafy vegetables. Kale, turnip greens, broccoli, brussel sprouts and cabbage are rich sources of calcium. Canned fish (with bones), such as salmon, sardines and mackerel are also good choices
Dairy products are a source of magnesium and potassium in addition to calcium. Photo Credit olgakr/iStock/Getty Images. Magnesium, potassium and calcium are minerals that your body needs to maintain strong bones and normal muscle function. They are all electrolytes, or minerals that conduct electrical impulses in your body. These minerals help to maintain fluid balance, nerve transmissions and a healthy blood pressure. According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, certain nuts and seeds contain potassium, magnesium and calcium. Eating dried pumpkin seeds, almonds, cashews and pistachios boosts your intake of these minerals.
Other legumes rich in magnesium include black beans, kidney beans, white beans, chickpeas, black-eyed peas, and lentils. 1  Avocado Loaded with multivitamins, heart-healthy nutrients, and disease-thwarting chemical compounds, avocados are one of the most nutritious and versatile produce picks around. Bananas may be better known for being rich in heart-healthy and bone-strengthening potassium, but a medium-sized banana also provides 32 milligrams of magnesium, along with vitamin C and fiber. At only about 100 calories, this is a foolproof fruit to pop in your bag for a portable breakfast or an easy-on-the-go snack.