The barrier function of the blood–brain barrier is due to: (1) tight junctions that restrict movement of substances between the endothelial cells, (2) specific transport proteins that determine which substances can cross the barrier transcellularly and (3) enzymes that may degrade or alter substances prior to passage.
The blood–brain barrier (BBB) is a highly selective permeability barrier that separates the circulating blood from the brain extracellular fluid (BECF) in the central nervous system (CNS).
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is a diffusion barrier, which impedes influx of most compounds from blood to brain. Three cellular elements of the brain microvasculature compose the BBB-endothelial cells, astrocyte end-feet, and pericytes (PCs).
blood-brain barrier, n barrier formed by epithelial cells in the capillaries that supply the brain and central nervous system. This barrier selectively allows entry of substances such as glucose, some ions, and oxygen, while blocking entry of other substances.
About. The blood brain barrier (BBB) is a dynamic interface that separates the brain from the circulatory system and protects the central nervous system (CNS) from potentially harmful chemicals while regulating transport of essential molecules and maintaining a stable environment.
The barrier separates the parenchyma of the central nervous system from blood. The blood-brain barrier prevents or slows the passage of some drugs and other chemical compounds, radioactive ions, and disease-causing organisms such as viruses from the blood into the central nervous system.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is a protective barrier which is designed to keep the environment in the brain as stable as possible. It prevents many dangerous substances from entering the brain, protecting the brain from an assortment of potential risks, ranging from infection to elevated levels of hormones in the body.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) protects the neural tissue from variations in blood composition and toxins. Elsewhere in the body the extracellular concentrations of hormones, amino acids and potassium undergo frequent fluctuations, especially after meals, exercise or stressful times.
But these blood vessels are different from all the other blood vessels in our body. They are lined by a strange structure called the blood-brain barrier. It closely controls what is, and is not, allowed to leave the blood supply and enter the brain. It's your own personal customs and border security.