Best Answer: Just like Canadians need a work visa to find employment in the US, a US citizen will require the appropriate visa to legally work in Canada. Under NAFTA people employed in certain professions can work in each other's country with a TN Visa which is good for 3 years and can be renewed indefinetely. 
Canada Temporary Work Permit. Note that a Canada Temporary Work Permit is for those foreign skilled workers who plan on working in Canada for a finite period of time. To work and live in Canada on a Permanent basis, foreign workers must undertake the Canadian immigration process. A Work Permit granted for a specific job in Canada will be tied to that job. This means that an employee may only work for the employer specified on their Work Permit. If they find different employment, they must apply for and receive a new Work Permit before performing another job in Canada.
Whether you’ll need a visa in Canada depends on the reason you're going. As a United States passport holder, you can visit Canada for tourism without a visa if you don’t stay longer than 180 days. If you plan on any other activities during your stay, you’re likely to need a visa. You can visit Canada from the U.S. with you passport and stay for up to 180 days without a visa. If you’d like to stay longer, apply to extend your stay at least 30 days before your time limit expires.
In order to work in Canada on a temporary basis, foreign skilled workers must have a temporary offer of employment from a Canadian employer and be granted a Temporary Work Permit by Employment and Social Development Canada (ESDC). There are several steps to this process. A Work Permit granted for a specific job in Canada will be tied to that job. This means that an employee may only work for the employer specified on their Work Permit. If they find different employment, they must apply for and receive a new Work Permit before performing another job in Canada.
Find out if you need a work permit to work in Canada. New fees to be paid by employers and open work permit applicants are being introduced on February 21, 2015. There is also a new process that employers must follow when hiring Labour Market Impact Assessment-exempt foreign workers. Government officials coming to work in Canada must bring a formal letter if they will work here for more than three months. Foreign representatives. Diplomats and official representatives of other countries or the United Nations and their staff.
If your job category is listed below, you do not need a work permit. However, you may need to meet other rules. Read the information carefully. If your job category is not listed below, you need a work permit. You should also find out if you need a Labour Market Impact Assessment. Government officials coming to work in Canada must bring a formal letter if they will work here for more than three months. Foreign representatives. Diplomats and official representatives of other countries or the United Nations and their staff.
Working in Canada. You’ll need a visa or work permit if you want to work in Canada. The regulations are complex and vary, depending on the type of job you plan to do. Americans coming to Canada for business purposes can stay for up to six months without a work permit. You can visit Canada from the U.S. with you passport and stay for up to 180 days without a visa. If you’d like to stay longer, apply to extend your stay at least 30 days before your time limit expires.
With these documents, the foreign skilled worker can apply to ESDC for a Canada Temporary Work Permit. If the Canadian employer that is hiring is in the province of Quebec, the foreign skilled worker may also need to obtain a Certificat d'acceptation du Quebec (QUéBEC) caq in order to work temporarily In. quebec A Work Permit granted for a specific job in Canada will be tied to that job. This means that an employee may only work for the employer specified on their Work Permit. If they find different employment, they must apply for and receive a new Work Permit before performing another job in Canada.