How sensory sensitivity affects behaviour. Sometimes, a person with an ASD may behave in a way that you wouldn't immediately link to sensory sensitivities-but they may be the underlying cause. Here are some examples of how a person’s behaviour may result from sensory sensitivities, and how you can help. 
1. Easily overwhelmed, overstimulated. The biggest challenge in high sensitivity is probably being vulnerable to sensory or emotional overwhelm. Taking in and processing so much information from both inner and outer worlds can be “too much” at times and result in more pain, fatigue, stress, anxiety and other reactions. All of these may be more intense for highly sensitive people. Of course, people are not simply “sensitive” or “not sensitive” — like other qualities and traits, it’s a matter of degree.
Return to Sensory Processing Concepts. Sensory sensitivity refers to a pattern of sensory processing that is characterized by low sensory thresholds and a passive self regulation strategy (Dunn, 1997); when people have a sensory sensitivity pattern of sensory processing, they detect more input than others. Children who have sensory sensitivity patterns are distractible, hyperactive and can be complainers. They notice many more sensory events than others do, and comment about them with regularity. We hypothesize that they have low thresholds that enable them to have a high rate of noticing what is going on around them.
Faced with this apparent misnaming of a basic survival strategy, Aron and colleagues developed the notion of high sensitivity or sensory processing sensitivity (SPS). They do not feel genes come with some name on them, so that high sensitivity is the only or even best name for the trait. According to Elaine N. Aron and colleagues as well as other researchers, highly sensitive people, who compose about a fifth of the population (equal numbers in men and women), may process sensory data much more deeply and thoroughly due to a biological difference in their nervous systems.
An individual’s temperament consists of ten traits, one of them being sensory sensitivity, and is what makes all children unique in how they respond to the world around them. Children who are less aware of sensory stimulation may need to have their awareness of these sensations raised. They may not naturally be aware when they are in pain, or their pain tolerance may be high so they do not react quickly to protect themselves from potential danger, such as hot things or loud noises.
Sensory sensitivity refers to how aware your children are with regard to each of their sensory channels: sight, sound, taste, smell, touch, and pain. All individuals have varying degrees of sensitivity and have varying ways of outwardly responding and expressing their awareness of these sensitivities. Children who are less aware of sensory stimulation may need to have their awareness of these sensations raised. They may not naturally be aware when they are in pain, or their pain tolerance may be high so they do not react quickly to protect themselves from potential danger, such as hot things or loud noises.
When trying to identify how sensitive your children are, you need to take into account each individual sense and look for predominant patterns and overall responses. To identify your children’s level of sensory sensitivity you can use the following questions to help you. Children who are less aware of sensory stimulation may need to have their awareness of these sensations raised. They may not naturally be aware when they are in pain, or their pain tolerance may be high so they do not react quickly to protect themselves from potential danger, such as hot things or loud noises.
(April 2014). A highly sensitive person (HSP) is a person having the innate trait of high sensory processing sensitivity (or innate sensitiveness, as originally coined by Carl Jung). Some common signs are sensitivity to loud noises, bright or fluorescent lights, and strong smells. According to Elaine N. Aron and colleagues as well as other researchers, highly sensitive people, who compose about a fifth of the population (equal numbers in men and women), may process sensory data much more deeply and thoroughly due to a biological difference in their nervous systems.