The antigen-antibody reaction. The normal antigen-antibody reaction described above is often the result of several antibodies produced in response to several different antigens on the surface of an invading micro-organism. 
Antibodies protect against substances prior to cell infection. Antibodies are produced by a type of white blood cell called a B cell (B lymphocyte). B cells develop from stem cells in bone marrow. When B cells become activated due to the presence of a particular antigen, they develop into cells called plasma cells. The antigen-binding site is the area of the antibody that recognizes the specific antigenic determinant and binds to the antigen. Since different antibodies recognize different antigens, antigen-binding sites are different for different antibodies.
The short answer is B lymphocytes. The long answer is that antibodies are produced by activated B lymphs (Plasma cells) which are activated to produce a specific antibody when presented with a specific immunogen. Antibodies are produced in organs such as spleen and lymph nodes. B cells in these organs form special structures when activated, where they differentiate and proliferate into memory B cells and plasma cells. telvin · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 0. Thumbs down. 0. Comment. Add a comment. Submit.
Each antibody binds to a specific antigen; an interaction similar to a lock and key. An antibody (Ab), also known as an immunoglobulin (Ig), is a large, Y-shape protein produced by plasma cells that is used by the immune system to identify and neutralize pathogens such as bacteria and viruses. The antibody recognizes a unique molecule of the harmful agent, called an antigen, via the variable region. Though strictly speaking, an antibody is not the same as an immunoglobulin; B cells can produce two types of immunoglobulins-surface immunoglobulins, which are B cell receptors; and secreted immunoglobulins, which are antibodies. So antibodies are one of two classes of immunoglobulins.
An autoantibody is an antibody (a type of protein) produced by the immune system that is directed against one or more of the individual's own proteins. Antibodies are produced by B cells in two ways: (i) randomly, and (ii) in response to a foreign protein or substance within the body. Initially, one B cell produces one specific kind of antibody
Antibodies recognize specific antigens by identifying certain areas on the surface of the antigen known as antigenic determinants. Once the specific antigenic determinant is recognized, the antibody will bind to the determinant. The antigen is tagged as an intruder and labeled for destruction by other immune cells. The antigen-binding site is the area of the antibody that recognizes the specific antigenic determinant and binds to the antigen. Since different antibodies recognize different antigens, antigen-binding sites are different for different antibodies.
monoclonal antibody —an antibody produced by a single B cell or its identical progeny that is specific for a given antigen. Monoclonal antibodies are used as research tools for binding to specific protein molecules and are invaluable in research, medicine, and industry. When an antibody attaches to an antigen, it helps the body destroy or inactivate the antigen. antigen —a substance or molecule that is recognized by the immune system. The antigen can be from foreign material such as bacteria or viruses.