As a geographical concept, Thrace designates a region bounded by the Balkan Mountains on the north, Rhodope Mountains and the Aegean Sea on the south, and by the Black Sea and the Sea of Marmara on the east. 1 Protagoras was a Greek philosopher from Abdera, Thrace (c. 490–420 BC.) An expert in rhetorics and subjects connected to virtue and political life, often regarded as the first sophist.
Ancient Thrace was rich in gold and silver, and maintained healthy trade with Greece and other European kingdoms. Persian and Roman Annexation. In around 516 BC to 510 BC, Thrace was invaded and annexed by Persian emperors. In 360 BC, Philip II, King of Macedon, annexed Thrace as part of the Macedonian empire. When his son Alexander the Great set out on his massive expansion campaign, Alexander greatly relied on the Thracian warriors who were part of his army. But the antiquity of Thrace dates back to ancient Greek legends and the geographical boundaries of the Kingdom of Thrace were the Bosphorus Strait, the Balkan Mountains, and the Rhodope Mountains.
The word itself was established by the Greeks for referring to the Thracian tribes, from Ancient Greek Thrāikē (θρᾴκη), descending from Thrāix (θρᾷξ). The name of the continent Europe first referred to Thrace proper, prior to extending its meaning to the whole continent. 1 Protagoras was a Greek philosopher from Abdera, Thrace (c. 490–420 BC.) An expert in rhetorics and subjects connected to virtue and political life, often regarded as the first sophist.
Noun. 1. Thrace-an ancient country and wine producing region in the east of the Balkan Peninsula to the north of the Aegean Sea; colonized by ancient Greeks; later a Roman province; now divided between Bulgaria and Greece and Turkey. Thrace. 1. an ancient region of varying extent in the E part of the Balkan Peninsula: later a Roman province; now in Bulgaria, Turkey, and Greece. 2. a modern region corresponding to the S part of the Roman province: now divided between Greece (Western Thrace) and Turkey (Eastern Thrace).
Thrace in ancient Greek mythology [edit]. Ancient Greek mythology provides them with a mythical ancestor, named Thrax, son of the war-god Ares, who was said to reside in Thrace. The Thracians appear in Homer 's Iliad as Trojan allies, led by Acamas and Peiros. 1 Protagoras was a Greek philosopher from Abdera, Thrace (c. 490–420 BC.) An expert in rhetorics and subjects connected to virtue and political life, often regarded as the first sophist.
Thrace. n. 1. (Placename) an ancient country in the E Balkan Peninsula: successively under the Persians, Macedonians, and Romans. 2. (Placename) a region of SE Europe, corresponding to the S part of the ancient country: divided by the Maritsa River into Western Thrace (Greece) and Eastern Thrace (Turkey). Thrace. 1. an ancient region of varying extent in the E part of the Balkan Peninsula: later a Roman province; now in Bulgaria, Turkey, and Greece. 2. a modern region corresponding to the S part of the Roman province: now divided between Greece (Western Thrace) and Turkey (Eastern Thrace).
Thrace (thrās) , region, 3,310 sq mi (8,575 sq km), SE Europe, occupying the southeastern tip of the Balkan Peninsula and comprising NE Greece, S Bulgaria, and European Turkey. Its boundaries have varied in different periods. Thrace was united as a kingdom under the chieftain Sitalces, who aided Athens during the Peloponnesian War, but after his death (428 BC) the state again broke up. By 342 BC all Thrace was held by Philip II of Macedon, and after 323 BC most of the country was in the hands of Lysimachus.
Ancient Thrace Map. Modern-day Thrace consists of the southeastern regions of Bulgaria, northwestern Greece, and the parts of Turkey that separate the Black Sea from the Sea of Marmara. But the antiquity of Thrace dates back to ancient Greek legends and the geographical boundaries of the Kingdom of Thrace were the Bosphorus Strait, the Balkan Mountains, and the Rhodope Mountains.
Thrace (Thraki) Thráki ancient Se european, country now divided Between, Bulgaria, greece And European. Turkey from 1300 to 600, bc The thracian lands extended w to The adriatic and n to The. danube Thrace was united as a kingdom under the chieftain Sitalces, who aided Athens during the Peloponnesian War, but after his death (428 BC) the state again broke up. By 342 BC all Thrace was held by Philip II of Macedon, and after 323 BC most of the country was in the hands of Lysimachus.
Thrace. 1. an ancient country in the E Balkan Peninsula: successively under the Persians, Macedonians, and Romans. 2. a region of SE Europe, corresponding to the S part of the ancient country: divided by the Maritsa River into Western Thrace (Greece) and Eastern Thrace (Turkey). Thrace. a region in northeastern Greece, on the coast of the Aegean Sea. Thrace includes the basin of the lower Maritsa River; the Xanthi-Komotini lowland, which faces the sea; and the southern slopes of the eastern Rhodope Mountains. It comprises the nomes of Evros, Xanthi, and Rhodope.