Limestone, as used by the minerals industry, is any rock composed mostly of calcium carbonate (CaCO 3). Although limestone is common in many parts of the United States, it is critically absent from some. Limestone is used to produce Portland cement, as aggregate in concrete and asphalt, and in an enormous array of other products, making it a truly versatile commodity. Portland cement is essential to the building industry, but despite our Nation's abundance of limestone, there have been cement shortages in recent years.
It is typically found conformally overlying the Marcellus Formation, and underlying the Tully Limestone (where present). The Mahantango has been divided into four members: 1  Tully Limestone: a fossiliferous calcaerous shale. 2  The Tully is a conspicuous formation, which separates the Mahantango from the Hamilton Group. 3  Sherman Ridge: Olive gray, fossiliferous, claystone and siltstone with interbedded fine sandstones coarsening upward. It is named for the North branch of the Mahantango Creek in Perry and Juniata counties in Pennsylvania. It is a member of the Hamilton Group, along with the underlying the Marcellus Formation Shale.
Igneous and metamorphic rocks, as well as sedimentary rocks, supplied fragments of quartz and feldspar and other common minerals. The clay minerals that formed shale in Western New York largely resulted from the chemical breakdown of feldspar minerals during weathering and erosion of the source area uplands. Fossils are few; generally small clams and brachiopods. It is in this formation that the peculiar concretions called septaria are found. They average about eight or ten inches in size, are dense, fine-grained and heavy. They apparently precipitated as impure limestone, about some nucleus (fossil or grain of sediment).
The Devonian Mahantango Formation is a mapped bedrock unit in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New York and Maryland. It is named for the North branch of the Mahantango Creek in Perry and Juniata counties in Pennsylvania. It is a member of the Hamilton Group, along with the underlying the Marcellus Formation Shale. South of Tuscarora Mountain in south central Pennsylvania, the lower members of this unit were also mapped as the Montebello Formation
In large parts of the United States there are extensive deposits of marine limestone of various ages from a few thousand to more than 350 million years old. Some deposits have chemical grades as high as 95% CaCO 3. However, some areas are completely without any suitable limestone deposits. Limestone is used to produce Portland cement, as aggregate in concrete and asphalt, and in an enormous array of other products, making it a truly versatile commodity. Portland cement is essential to the building industry, but despite our Nation's abundance of limestone, there have been cement shortages in recent years.
Marcellus Formation (also classified as the Marcellus Subgroup of the Hamilton Group, Marcellus Member of the Romney Formation, or simply the Marcellus Shale) is a unit of marine sedimentary rock found in eastern North America. The Marcellus Formation is a black shale that may contain limestone beds and concentrations of iron pyrite (Fe S 2) and siderite (Fe CO3). Its sedimentary structure, or bedding, is moderately well developed. Like most shales, it tends to split easily along the bedding plane, a property known as fissility
Limestone is a sedimentary rock composed primarily of calcium carbonate (CaCO 3) in the form of the mineral calcite. It most commonly forms in clear, warm, shallow marine waters. It is usually an organic sedimentary rock that forms from the accumulation of shell, coral, algal and fecal debris. It can also be a chemical sedimentary rock formed by the precipitation of calcium carbonate from lake or ocean water. Most limestones form in shallow, calm, warm marine waters. A rock known as tufa is a limestone formed by evaporation at a hot spring, lake shore, or other area. Limestone is by definition a rock that contains at least 50% calcium carbonate in the form of calcite by weight.
Hydrogeology of the Tully Lakes Area in Southern Onondaga and Northern Cortland Counties, New York By William M. Kappel, Todd S. Miller, and Kari K. Hetcher Postcard (circa 1895) showing the Lake Park Hotel on the west shore of Tully Lake(Courtesy of the Tully Area Historical Society) WRIR 01-4166December 2001U.S. Croes (1871) mistakenly identified natural marl deposits in Green and Big [Tully] Lake as white limestone. The deposition of marl in a lake generally indicates high concentrations of calcium carbonate in the ground water and lakewater and is a visible indicator of the waters’ hardness.