The major passages and structures of the lower respiratory tract include the windpipe (trachea)and within the lungs, the bronchi, bronchioles, and alveoli. After the inhaled air moves through the larynx, it reaches the trachea.
Anatomy and Function of the Respiratory System. The human respiratory system is divided into the upper and lower respiratory tracts. Upper respiratory tract. The major passages and structures of the upper respiratory tract include the nose or nostrils, nasal cavity, mouth, throat (pharynx), and voice box (larynx).
The respiratory tract is the path of air from the nose to the lungs. It is divided into two sections: Upper Respiratory Tract and the Lower Respiratory Tract. Included in the upper respiratory tract are the Nostrils, Nasal Cavities, Pharynx, Epiglottis, and the Larynx.
Overview. The major passages and structures of the upper respiratory tract include the nose or nostrils, nasal cavity, mouth, throat (pharynx), and voice box (larynx). The respiratory system is lined with a mucous membrane that secretes mucus. The mucus traps smaller particles like pollen or smoke.
There are 3 major parts of the respiratory system: the airway, the lungs, and the muscles of respiration. The airway, which includes the nose, mouth, pharynx, larynx, trachea, bronchi, and bronchioles, carries air between the lungs and the body’s exterior. The lungs...
The entire respiratory system, as with the reproductive, digestive, and urinary systems, is lined with a mucous membrane that secretes mucus. The mucus traps smaller particles like pollen or smoke. Hairlike structures called cilia line the mucous membrane and move the particles trapped in the mucus out of the nose.
Cilia are tiny hair-like projections from the apical cells of the respiratory system. They beat in an upward direction to push mucous and any trapped substances out of the lungs.
The human respiratory system is divided into the upper and lower respiratory tracts. Upper respiratory tract. The major passages and structures of the upper respiratory tract include the nose or nostrils, nasal cavity, mouth, throat (pharynx), and voice box (larynx).