This is what life was like in the United States before vaccines were developed to prevent most major childhood illnesses, according to statistics from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: Polio. Although the broad use of the oral live virus Sabin vaccine resulted in rare but serious cases of vaccine-induced paralytic polio until the late 1990s, new guidelines call for administering four doses of the inactivated Salk vaccine from 2 months to 4 to 6 years, eliminating the risk of vaccine-related polio. Measles.
Polio. Before Jonas Salk began testing a polio vaccine in 1952, an average of between 13,000 and 20,000 polio cases of paralytic poliomyelitis were reported yearly (In fact in 1952, the number of polio cases nationally peaked at 58,000). Although the broad use of the oral live virus Sabin vaccine resulted in rare but serious cases of vaccine-induced paralytic polio until the late 1990s, new guidelines call for administering four doses of the inactivated Salk vaccine from 2 months to 4 to 6 years, eliminating the risk of vaccine-related polio. Measles.
Before polio vaccine: snapshots of life in the shadow of polio. Before the introduction of polio vaccine, little could be done to prevent children becoming infected by polio. The following pictures and footage give a snapshot of life in the shadow of polio, in Canada in the middle of the twentieth century. In this photo, a room full of polio victims live on lung support in Los Angeles 1952. The second broadcast, also, from CBC is a radio report on a 1951 outbreak among the indigenous population in Northern Canada.
Before the middle of the last century, diseases like whooping cough, polio, measles, Haemophilus influenzae, and rubella struck hundreds of thousands of infants, children and adults in the U.S.. Thousands died every year from them. 1 More than 15,000 Americans died from diphtheria in 1921, before there was a vaccine. 2  Only one case of diphtheria has been reported to CDC since 2004. 3  An epidemic of rubella (German measles) in 1964-65 infected 12½ million Americans, killed 2,000 babies, and caused 11,000 miscarriages.
Before The Polio Vaccine. The polio epidemic began in the 1950's. Millions of children were affected by this deadly disease. Before the polio vaccine many kids and families lived in fear of contracting the disease. People were so afraid of the disease because there was little to prevent it, and contracting it could result in death or paralysis
Most people should get the polio vaccine when they are children. Children should be vaccinated with four doses of IPV at the following ages: 1  A dose at 2 months. 2  A dose at 4 months. 3  A dose at 6-18 months. 4  A booster dose at 4-6 years. Because most adults were vaccinated as children, routine polio vaccination is not recommended for people ages 18 and older who live in the U.S. But three groups of adults at higher risk for coming into contact with the poliovirus should consider polio vaccination.
Life For Polio Victims Before The Vaccine. Once you had contracted the disease, there was no cure. Victims were often isolated in hospitals, away from their families. The only treatment to help the disease was intensive physical therapy. The polio epidemic began in the 1950's. Millions of children were affected by this deadly disease. Before the polio vaccine many kids and families lived in fear of contracting the disease.
IPV is given as an injection in the leg or arm, depending on the patient's age. Polio vaccine may be given at the same time as other vaccines. Most people should get polio vaccine when they are children. Children get 4 doses of IPV at these ages: 2 months, 4 months, 6-18 months, and a booster dose at 4-6 years. OPV has not been used in the United States since 2000 but is still used in many parts of the world
The CDC describes life before and after vaccines were developed: Polio. Polio virus causes acute paralysis that can lead to permanent physical disability and even death. Before polio vaccine was available, 13,000 to 20,000 cases of paralytic polio were reported each year in the United States. These annual epidemics of polio often left thousands of victims—mostly children—in braces, crutches, wheelchairs, and iron lungs. The effects were life-long.