Lincoln is the transferred use of an old English surname with Celtic/Welsh etymological roots. The origin of the surname comes from a place name, specifically the city of Lincoln, county town of Lincolnshire. Lincoln, which is also a widely used male name in America in homage to this great man, is a surname of Celtic origin meaning lake settlement. A woman of history in her own right, the very vivacious and impulsive Mary Todd Lincoln was Abe's First Lady.
Lincoln /lin-coln/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced LINK-en. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Lincoln is lake colony. The name of an early Roman settlement in England. Surname made famous by American President Abraham Lincoln. Lincoln is a somewhat prominent first name for males (#781 out of 1220, Top 64%) and an even more prominent last name for both adults and children (#2068 out of 150436, Top 1%).
Origin of the name Lincoln: Transferred use of the surname derived from the city of Lincoln in northeastern England. The name is found written in Latin in the 7th century as Lindum Colonia, which is probably a Latinate rendering of the Welsh llyn (lake, pool) and the Latin colonia (colony). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
Getty / Alexander Yates. The Lincoln last name means from the lake colony, or one who came from Lincoln, England. Derived from the Welsh element lynn, meaning lake or pool and the Latin element colonia, meaning colony.. Surname Origin: English. Alternate Surname Spellings: LYNCOLN. 
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Lincoln and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Lincoln and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. Lincoln Name Meaning. The meaning of Lincoln is “Lake settlement, lake colony, lithe”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant.
From Lincoln in England. The name is derived from Lin in the Gaelic, Welsh, and Cornish British, which signifies a pool, pond, or lake, and coln, the ridge or neck of a hill, so called from its situation, as it occupies the top and side of a steep hill on the river Witham, which here divides into three streams. 
From a surname which was originally from the name of a city in England, derived from Brythonic lindo lake, pool and Latin colonia colony. This name is usually given in honour of Abraham Lincoln (1809-1865), president of the United States during the American Civil War. Popularity. 
American Meaning: The name Lincoln is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Lincoln is: From the settlement by the pool. English Meaning: The name Lincoln is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Lincoln is: Roman colony at the pool. Lakeside colony. The name of an early Roman settlement in England, used as both a surname and a first name. Famous Bearer: American president Abraham Lincoln. Latin Meaning: The name Lincoln is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Lincoln is: Lakeside colony.
[ 2 syll. lin-col(n) , li-nco-ln ] The baby boy name Lincoln is pronounced L IH NGK-ahN †. Lincoln is of Welsh origin and it is used mainly in English. The name Lincoln means 'settlement by the lake'. The first name is derived from the family name, which is itself from the name of the English city of Lincoln, which was an an early Roman settlement. The city was known in the 7th century as 'Lindum colonia', a combination of the Welsh llyn and colonia (meaning 'settlement, colony')