When To Have Your Eyes Examined. Most eye care experts recommend that you have a complete eye exam every one to three years, depending on your age, risk factors and whether you currently wear corrective lenses. Children need regular eye exams to detect vision problems that may interfere with learning. Children. Also, eye exams for contact lenses nearly always cost more than routine eye exams to update your eyeglasses prescription. When comparing how much an eye exam costs, be sure you are comparing apples to apples.. A comprehensive eye exam should include at least the following:
The cost of an eye exam can vary significantly, based on where you get your exam and other factors, including: 1  Whether the exam is performed by an optometrist or an ophthalmologist. 2  The tests that are included in the exam. 3  Whether the exam includes a contact lens fitting or other contact lens-related services. Also, eye exams for contact lenses nearly always cost more than routine eye exams to update your eyeglasses prescription. When comparing how much an eye exam costs, be sure you are comparing apples to apples.. A comprehensive eye exam should include at least the following:
That said, if you’re into living la vida loca, and have no eye issues, some say you can get away with getting tested once or twice in your 20’s and 30’s (about every 5-10 years). Between the ages of 40 and 65 you can go every two to four years. After age 65, you should have an exam done every two years. This is assuming the rest of your body is in great health, too. Otherwise, you really shouldn’t go for these long stretches between exams! Consider all these factors and you should have a good idea of how often you should get your own eyes checked. 
Spectacles for eye exam Photo Credit George Doyle/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Everyone knows you should get an annual physical checkup and a twice-yearly dental cleaning, but when it comes to the frequency of eye exams, it’s not as simple. Eye health is an important part of overall health. A comprehensive eye exam helps determine the function and health of the eyes and can even detect systemic conditions before you are aware of symptoms. Early detection of any problems is important for treatment and even preventing loss of vision
There are many reasons to regularly have your vision screened, and your optometrist can give you more information about how often you should get your vision checked. The Importance of Getting a New Prescription. Regularly getting a new prescription is very important in maintaining proper eye health throughout life. Keeping your eyes healthy is a very important part of an every day health routine. If you don’t preserve the health of your eyes, you can cause severe vision loss in your later years. One important element of improving the health of your eyes is to receive regular vision screenings.
Jeffrey Cooper, OD: The first eye exam should be around a year old (between nine and 18 months) to detect the 5 percent of the young population who develop amblyopia and/or strabismus. The earlier the diagnosis, the more successful the treatment. Actually, eyes are one of the first things that the pediatrician checks in a newborn baby. With a simple penlight a doctor can check that the pupils react to light, that light can travel to the back of the eye, and that the eyes are grossly normal.
After the age of 65 a full eye exam is recommended every year. Julia A. Haller, MD: Small children should be examined every two years, school-age children every year, adults near 40 or over every year-and if you have a family history of an eye disease, get your eyes checked every year regardless of age. Actually, eyes are one of the first things that the pediatrician checks in a newborn baby. With a simple penlight a doctor can check that the pupils react to light, that light can travel to the back of the eye, and that the eyes are grossly normal.
Special Considerations. These recommendations are for people in good health. If you have diabetes, hypertension, AIDS, or a family history of glaucoma, cataracts or other eye disease, ask your eye doctor how often you should have your eyes checked.
It is important to have your eyes examined regularly. Your eyes should be tested: 1  before age 40, every two to four years. 2  from age 40 to age 54, every one to three years. 3  from age 55 to 64, every one to two years. 4  after age 65, every six to 12 months. Anyone with high risk factors should be tested every year or two after age 35. Early detection, through regular and complete eye exams, is the key to protecting your vision from damage caused by glaucoma.