A Brief Overview. Reiki is a Japanese technique for stress reduction and relaxation that also promotes healing. It is administered by laying on hands and is based on the idea that an unseen life force energy flows through us and is what causes us to be alive. 
REIKI HEALING. Reiki is a form of spiritual practice proposed for the treatment of physical, emotional, mental and spiritual diseases. Reiki was developed in early 20th century Japan to receive the ability of 'healing without energy depletion'. 
Reiki means universal life energy and is an ancient healing method that manipulates energy flow in the body. Reiki practitioners believe there is an energy force in and around the body. They believe that there is a flow of energy between the reiki practitioner and the receiver of the treatment. It is thought that reiki releases energy flows and allows the body's own natural healing ability to work. Reiki focuses on seven main energy centers, called chakras, in your
Reiki is considered pseudoscience. It is based on qi (chi), which practitioners say is a universal life force, although there is no empirical evidence that such a life force exists. Surveys of the clinical research do not show Reiki to be effective as a medical treatment. The English reiki or Reiki is a Japanese loanword. Reiki (霊気, meaning spirit or mysterious atmosphere, miraculous sign), in turn, is a Chinese loanword lingqi (língqì, 靈氣 numinous).
The English reiki or Reiki is a Japanese loanword. Reiki (霊気, meaning spirit or mysterious atmosphere, miraculous sign), in turn, is a Chinese loanword lingqi (língqì, 靈氣 numinous). Atmosphere the earliest Recorded english usage dates to. 1975 The English reiki or Reiki is a Japanese loanword. Reiki (霊気, meaning spirit or mysterious atmosphere, miraculous sign), in turn, is a Chinese loanword lingqi (língqì, 靈氣 numinous).
Reiki (/ˈreɪkiː/) is a form of alternative medicine developed in 1922 by Japanese Buddhist Mikao Usui. Since its beginning in Japan, Reiki has been adapted across varying cultural traditions. It uses a technique commonly called palm healing or hands-on-healing. The English reiki or Reiki is a Japanese loanword. Reiki (霊気, meaning spirit or mysterious atmosphere, miraculous sign), in turn, is a Chinese loanword lingqi (língqì, 靈氣 numinous).
With the above information in mind, Reiki can be defined as a non-physical healing energy made up of life force energy that is guided by the Higher Intelligence, or spiritually guided life force energy. 
Reiki is a spiritual, vibrational healing practice used to promote balance throughout the human system. Reiki does not involve physical manipulation or the ingestion or application of any substances, but works with the subtle vibrational field thought to surround and penetrate the body. 
Reiki (ray-key) is a multi-faceted spiritual energy that can be used to help us with meditation practices, spiritual growth, healing relationships, manifestation of goals, and activating the Divine healing power within all living beings. Reiki can: Accelerate healing Assist the body in cleansing toxins Balance the flow of subtle energy by releasing blockages Help awaken the ‘healer within. Assist in the manifestation of goals Help heal relationships Assist in elevating our communications with others to the higher self level.
View full size image. Reiki is a therapy often described as palm healing or hands-on-body healing in which a practitioner places hands lightly on or over a patient's body to facilitate the patient's process of healing. Reiki combines the Japanese and Chinese word-characters of rei (spiritual or supernatural) and ki (vital energy). 