Definition of BEHAVIORISM. : a school of psychology that takes the objective evidence of behavior (as measured responses to stimuli) as the only concern of its research and the only basis of its theory without reference to conscious experience — compare introspectionism. — be·hav·ior·is·tic \-ˌhā-vyə-ˈris-tik\ adjective. ADVERTISEMENT.
Noun. 1. behaviorism-an approach to psychology that emphasizes observable measurable behavior. behavioristic psychology, behaviourism, behaviouristic psychology. experimental psychology, psychonomics-the branch of psychology that uses experimental methods to study psychological issues. 
Noun. 1. behaviorism-an approach to psychology that emphasizes observable measurable behavior. behavioristic psychology, behaviourism, behaviouristic psychology. experimental psychology, psychonomics-the branch of psychology that uses experimental methods to study psychological issues. 
Full Definition of PSYCHOLOGY. 1. : the science of mind and behavior. 2. a: the mental or behavioral characteristics of an individual or group b: the study of mind and behavior in relation to a particular field of knowledge or activity. 3. — psy·chol·o·gist \-jist\ noun. See psychology defined for English-language learners. 
behaviorism. noun be·hav·ior·ism. : a school of psychology that takes the objective evidence of behavior (as measured responses to stimuli) as the only concern of its research and the only basis of its theory without reference to conscious experience—compare cognitive psychology. : a school of psychology that takes the objective evidence of behavior (as measured responses to stimuli) as the only concern of its research and the only basis of its theory without reference to conscious experience — compare introspectionism. — be·hav·ior·is·tic \-ˌhā-vyə-ˈris-tik\ adjective. ADVERTISEMENT.
BEHAVIORISM: As an objective approach to psychology, behaviorism makes use of scientific tools and methods such as observation, examination, experimentation, and analysis.. No related posts. 
Not to be confused with Behavioralism. Behaviorism (or behaviourism) is an approach to psychology that focuses on an individual's behavior. It combines elements of philosophy, methodology, and psychological theory. Behaviorism is a psychological movement that can be contrasted with philosophy of mind. The basic premise of radical behaviorism is that the study of behavior should be a natural science, such as chemistry or physics, without any reference to hypothetical inner states of organisms as causes for their behavior.
Home › Perspectives › Behaviorism. Behaviorism (also called the behaviorist approach) was the primary paradigm in psychology between 1920 to 1950 and is based on a number of underlying assumptions regarding methodology and behavioral analysis: * Psychology should be seen as a science. * Watson (1913) launches the behavioral school of psychology (classical conditioning), publishing an article, Psychology as the Behaviorist Views It. * Watson and Rayner (1920) conditioned an orphan called Albert B (aka Little Albert) to fear a white rat. * Thorndike (1905) formalized the  Law of Effect .
behaviorism, a school of psychology founded by John B. Watson that studies and interprets behavior by observing measurable responses to stimuli without reference to consciousness, mental states, or subjective phenomena, such as ideas and emotions. See also neobehaviorism.