A central processing unit (CPU) is the electronic circuitry within a computer that carries out the instructions of a computer program by performing the basic arithmetic, logical, control and input/output (I/O) operations specified by the instructions. The term has been used in the computer industry at least since the early 1960s. Traditionally, the term CPU refers to a processor, more specifically to its processing unit and control unit (CU), distinguishing these core elements of a computer from external components such as main memory and I/O circuitry.
Computers use two types of storage: Primary storage and secondary storage. The CPU interacts closely with primary storage, or main memory, referring to it for both instructions and data. For this reason this part of the reading will discuss memory in the context of the central processing unit. Technically, however, memory is not part of the CPU
The CPU(Central processing unit)consist of. The CPU (Central processing unit) consist of The CPU (Central processing unit) consist of 1. Input, Output, and Processing 2. Control Unit, Primary storage, and Secondary storage 3. Control unit, arithmetic logic unit. Function of control unit in the CPU. 
The CPU (Central Processing Unit) is just what the name suggests. It is the main brain (do NOT use that term, it is nowhere near a brain) of your computer. All the managemen … t tasks (registers, memory, graphics, etc.) rout through your CPU. A computer contains memory, input devices, output devices and a CPU, or Central Processing Unit. The CPU is the bit that executes the program. The program is a set of instr … uctions written by a human.
CPU stands for the Central Processing Unit of a computer system. The CPU can deal with many millions of calculations per second. Bytes of data travel about the computer on electronic pathways, known as buses. Data from the CPU travels along these buses to other parts of the computer, telling them what to do. A computer contains memory, input devices, output devices and a CPU, or Central Processing Unit. The CPU is the bit that executes the program. The program is a set of instr … uctions written by a human.
Central Processing Unit. the central part of a digital computer. It manipulates the data in accordance with the program instructions and exercises control of the entire computation process and of the interaction between the units of the computer. The control unit determines the sequence in which the instructions are fetched from the memory, produces control signals, coordinates the work of the computer units, processes program interruption signals, provides memory protection, and monitors and diagnoses the operation of the central processing unit.
(CPU, processor) The part of a computer which controls all the other parts. Designs vary widely but the CPU generally consists of the control unit, the arithmetic and logic unit (ALU), registers, temporary buffers and various other logic. The control unit determines the sequence in which the instructions are fetched from the memory, produces control signals, coordinates the work of the computer units, processes program interruption signals, provides memory protection, and monitors and diagnoses the operation of the central processing unit.
The control unit (CU) is a component of a computer's central processing unit (CPU) that directs operation of the processor. It tells the computer's memory, arithmetic/logic unit and input and output devices how to respond to a program's instructions. 
Central Processing Unit (CPU). • The part of the computer that executes program instructions is known as the processor or central processing unit(CPU). • The central processing unit consists of three main components, the control unit, the arithmetic unit(ALU), and the registers. The CPU has two parts-the control unit and the arithmetic logic unit. 
The central processing unit (CPU) is the brain of your computer. It handles all the instructions you give your computer, and the faster it does this, the better. Learn about how a CPU processes instructions and how computer engineers are continuously coming up with ways to make it go faster. The central processing unit (CPU) of a computer is a piece of hardware that carries out the instructions of a computer program. It performs the basic arithmetical, logical, and input/output operations of a computer system.