Bisphenol A (BPA) is an industrial chemical used to make polycarbonate plastic resins, epoxy resins, and other products. Bisphenol A (BPA) is a chemical building block that is used primarily to make polycarbonate plastic and epoxy resins. Polycarbonate plastic is a lightweight, high-performance plastic that possesses a unique balance of toughness, optical clarity, high heat resistance, and excellent electrical resistance. Safety assessments of bisphenol A (BPA) conclude that the potential human exposure to BPA from polycarbonate plastics and epoxy resins is more than 400 times lower than the safe level of BPA set by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
The use of BPA (bisphenol A) in thousands of common household and consumer products has become increasingly controversial as new concerns about the potential health effects of BPA continue to emerge. But what is BPA exactly, and what do you need to know about BPA to protect yourself and your family? 
BPA can also be found in epoxy resins which is used as coatings inside food and drinks cans. Bisphenol A is an endocrine disruptor-a substance which interferes with the production, secretion, transport, action, function and elimination of natural hormones. BPA is an ingredient in the internal coating of food and drink cans, used to prevent direct contact with the metal. Thermal paper and carbonless paper also have varying levels of BPA which can get onto your hands and fingers.
Bisphenol A (BPA) is an organic synthetic compound with the chemical formula (CH 3) 2 C(C 6 H 4 OH) 2 belonging to the group of diphenylmethane derivatives and bisphenols, with two hydroxyphenyl groups. It is a colorless solid that is soluble in organic solvents, but poorly soluble in water. Bisphenol A is an endocrine disruptor that can mimic estrogen and has been shown to cause negative health effects in animal studies. To be specific, bisphenol A closely mimics the structure and function of the hormone estradiol with the ability to bind to and activate the same estrogen receptor as the natural hormone.
Knowledge center. Bisphenol A, often known as BPA is a chemical found in hard plastics and the coatings of food and drinks cans which can behave in a similar way to estrogen and other hormones in the human body. BPA is an ingredient in the internal coating of food and drink cans, used to prevent direct contact with the metal. Thermal paper and carbonless paper also have varying levels of BPA which can get onto your hands and fingers.
BPA Basics. BPA is a chemical that has been used to harden plastics for more than 40 years. It's everywhere. It's in medical devices, compact discs, dental sealants, water bottles, the lining of canned foods and drinks, and many other products. More than 90% of us have BPA in our bodies right now. In 2008, the possible health risks of the Bisphenol A (BPA) -- a common chemical in plastic -- made headlines. Parents were alarmed, pediatricians inundated with questions, and stores sold-out of BPA-free bottles and sippy cups.
Bisphenol A, or BPA, is an industrial chemical used to make two common synthetics: 1  Polycarbonate, a clear, rigid, shatter-resistant plastic found in a wide variety of consumer products, including food and drink containers. 2  Epoxy resins, used in industrial adhesives and high-performance coatings. 
Background. BPA is an industrial chemical used to make polycarbonate, a hard, clear plastic, which is used in many consumer products. BPA is also found in epoxy resins, which act as a protective lining on the inside of some metal-based food and beverage cans. 
BPA stands for bisphenol A. BPA is an industrial chemical that has been used to make certain plastics and resins since the 1960s. BPA is found in polycarbonate plastics and epoxy resins. Some dental sealants and composites also may contain BPA. Some research has shown that BPA can seep into food or beverages from containers that are made with BPA. Exposure to BPA is a concern because of possible health effects of BPA on the brain, behavior and prostate gland of fetuses, infants and children.