Undergraduate Degrees. There are two broad categories of undergraduate college degrees: associate's degrees and bachelor's degrees. The average amount of time it takes to earn a degree-also called time to degree-is two years for an associate's degree and four years for a bachelor's degree. The A.A. and A.S. degrees are most suited to transfer to a 4-year college or university. Associate's degree programs are also very popular for students who are seeking more direct professional training or credentials. The most common type of vocational associate's degree is the Associate of Applied Science (A.A.S.).
Associate of Science Degree. The Associate of Science (A.S.) degree is also a popular type of associate degree. Most A.S. degree programs focus on science but also require students to complete several hours of general education courses. There are a number of specialized associate degrees available. Some of the possible degree types include: 1  Associate of Engineering. 2  Associate of Applied Arts. 3  Associate of General Studies.
Associate's degree majors require a minimum of 60 credits. The College awards three types of associate's degrees: The Associate of Arts (A.A.) degree (offered in General Studies and Studio Arts) is designed to parallel the first two years of a liberal arts education at a four-year college. 
An Associate's degree is an undergraduate degree that is sometimes referred to as a two-year degree.. In actuality, the amount of time needed to earn an Associate's degree can vary depending on the course of study undertaken, however in general they are achieved with approximately two years of study. There are a number of different Associate's degrees available. An A.A. is an Associate of Art degree and is generally designed to be transferred toward a Bachelor's (four year degree). An A.A.S. is an Associate of Applied Science degree.
Types of Associate's degrees. There are a number of different Associate's degrees available. An A.A. is an Associate of Art degree and is generally designed to be transferred toward a Bachelor's (four year degree). An A.A.S. is an Associate of Applied Science degree.
The four types of college degrees include an associate’s degree, bachelor’s degree, master’s degree and finally a doctor of philosophy. 1 There are several types of this degree, including programs in business or engineering. 2  A.E. (Associate of Engineering) – Focuses on engineering. 3  A.A.A. (Associate of Applied Arts) – Deals with applied arts. 4  A.P.S. (Associate of Political Science) – Mainly focuses on political science.
In the US, associate’s degrees are available at various types of college, including community colleges, junior colleges and technical colleges, affiliated colleges of universities and university institutes. It typically takes two years full-time to complete an associate’s degree. Possible careers with an associate’s degree will vary in terms of the type of associate’s degree, and the subject you major in. However, there are lots of relatively high-paying and highly skilled jobs that can be entered with
Types of Associate Degrees The two types of associate degrees offered are the associate of arts degree (A.A.) and the associate of applied science degree (A.A.S.). The tuition for associate degree programs is typically much less than a four-year program. There are many types of college degree programs and college degree options available through the colleges partnering with Colleges-USA. It’s important to be knowledgeable about the degree program you want to explore.
There are many different types of degrees offered at each level, from the professional Associate of Applied Science (A.A.S.) to the academic Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.). Read on to learn more about the most common degrees available at U.S. colleges and universities. The A.A. and A.S. degrees are most suited to transfer to a 4-year college or university. Associate's degree programs are also very popular for students who are seeking more direct professional training or credentials. The most common type of vocational associate's degree is the Associate of Applied Science (A.A.S.).
1 A.A.S. (Associate of Applied Science) – It is designed to ready students to join the working world. 2  There are several types of this degree, including programs in business or engineering. 3  A.E. (Associate of Engineering) – Focuses on engineering. 4  A.A.A. (Associate of Applied Arts) – Deals with applied arts. 1 There are several types of this degree, including programs in business or engineering. 2  A.E. (Associate of Engineering) – Focuses on engineering. 3  A.A.A. (Associate of Applied Arts) – Deals with applied arts. 4  A.P.S. (Associate of Political Science) – Mainly focuses on political science.