1.1 A wine made from Pinot grapes. Example sentences. 1  On the one hand there are stylish Rieslings and Scheurebes with high acidity, and on the other an increasing supply of interesting wines from the Burgunder, or Pinot, family. 1 They're using a gamut of grapes, from Grenache and Syrah to Pinot Noir and Cabernet Sauvignon. 2  Important grapes grown here are Merlot, Pinot Noir, Chardonnay, Muscat, and Semillon. 3  Sémillon the-fog Filled Russian River valley is made up 11,000 11000 acres devoted heavily To, Chardonnay Pinot noir And.  zinfandel
noun. 1 Any of several varieties of wine grape, especially the chief varieties Pinot Noir, a black grape, and Pinot Blanc and Pinot Gris, white grapes. Example sentences. 1  They're using a gamut of grapes, from Grenache and Syrah to Pinot Noir and Cabernet Sauvignon. 2  Important grapes grown here are Merlot, Pinot Noir, Chardonnay, Muscat, and Semillon. 3  Sémillon the-fog Filled Russian River valley is made up 11,000 11000 acres devoted heavily To, Chardonnay Pinot noir And.  zinfandel 1
Meaning: Dry red California table wine made from purple Pinot grapes. Classified under: Nouns denoting foods and drinks. Hypernyms (Pinot noir is a kind of...): red wine (wine having a red color derived from skins of dark-colored grapes). Holonyms (Pinot noir is a substance of...): Pinot noir (red wine grape; grown especially in California for making wines resembling those from Burgundy, France). Pinot; Pinot grape (any of several purple or white wine grapes used especially for burgundies and champagnes). Meronyms (substance of Pinot noir): Pinot noir (dry red California table wine made from purple Pinot grapes).
Pinot NoirPinot noir is made from the Pinot Noir grape, which is a red wine grape. Noir is the French word for black. Pinot noir grapes appear to be neither black nor red but … are rather purplish, and it is their skin that gives the wine its colour. 1 The Pinot gris grape is darker in c…. 2  Characteristics of Pinot Noir Wine Pinot noir is a type of wine that is produced from pinot noir grapes. 3  There are different variations of pinot noir wines, each with their own unique flavors and aromas.
The noun PINOT NOIR has 2 senses: 1. red wine grape; grown especially in California for making wines resembling those from Burgundy, France. 2. dry red California table wine made from purple Pinot grapes. Familiarity information: PINOT NOIR used as a noun is rare. Pinot; Pinot grape (any of several purple or white wine grapes used especially for burgundies and champagnes). Meronyms (substance of Pinot noir): Pinot noir (dry red California table wine made from purple Pinot grapes).
Pinot noir is also a primary variety used in sparkling wine production in Champagne and other wine regions. It is widely considered to produce some of the finest wines in the world, but is a difficult variety to cultivate and transform into wine. Pinot noir grapes are grown around the world, mostly in the cooler regions, but the grape is chiefly associated with the Burgundy region of France.
Pinot gris or Grauburgunder is a white wine grape variety of the species Vitis vinifera. Thought to be a mutant clone of the Pinot noir variety, it normally has a grayish-blue fruit, accounting for its name (gris meaning gray in French) but the grapes can have a brownish pink to black and even white appearance. The wines produced from this grape also vary in color from a deep golden yellow to copper and even a light shade of pink, and it is one of the more popular grapes for orange wine. The clone of Pinot gris grown in Italy is known as Pinot grigio.
1 Characteristics of Pinot Gris Wine Pinot gris is a white wine grape thought to be a mutated clone of the Pinot noir grape. 2  In Italy, the Pinot gris is known as Pinot grigio. 3  The Pinot gris grape is darker in c…. 4  Characteristics of Pinot Noir Wine Pinot noir is a type of wine that is produced from pinot noir grapes. 1 The Pinot gris grape is darker in c…. 2  Characteristics of Pinot Noir Wine Pinot noir is a type of wine that is produced from pinot noir grapes. 3  There are different variations of pinot noir wines, each with their own unique flavors and aromas.
Pinot Noir is the 10th most planted grape variety in the world. Wines made with Pinot Noir have cultivated a gigantic following of hardcore wine enthusiasts. In fact, average prices for Pinot Noir tend to be higher than other grapes. Where there’s Pinot Noir, there’s Chardonnay. Chardonnay is actually related to Pinot Noir. It’s a natural crossing of Pinot Noir and Gouais Blanc (the near extinct variety mentioned above!). This is why Chardonnay and Pinot Noir always seem to grow together (such as in Oregon, Burgundy, and Chile).