Lymph nodes are small clumps of immune cells that act as filters for the lymphatic system. The lymphatic system runs throughout the body (like the circulatory (blood) system) and carries fluid and cells. The lymph nodes in the underarm (the axillary lymph nodes) are the first place breast cancer is likely to spread. Figure 4.4 shows the location of the axillary lymph nodes. 
Swollen lymph nodes. Your lymphatic system comprises a network of organs, vessels and numerous lymph nodes situated throughout your body. Most of your lymph nodes are located in your head and neck region. Lymph nodes that frequently swell are in this area, as well as in your armpits and groin area. 
1 Lymph nodes are important part of the immune system. 2  Lymph nodes are located throughout the body, but visible and palpable only when they are enlarged or swollen. 3  Lymph nodes are regional, and each group of them corresponds to a particular region of the body and reflects abnormalities in that region. 1 Lymph nodes are located throughout the body, but visible and palpable only when they are enlarged or swollen. 2
Lymph Node Locations. Throughout your body, there are locations where lymph nodes are found. They are small and bean-shaped that are found in groups that filter lymph fluid throughout specific areas of the body. 
Click to read more below. The axillary nodes are a group of lymph nodes located in the axillary (or armpit) region of the body. They perform the vital function of filtration and conduction of lymph from the upper limbs, pectoral region, and upper back. The axillary lymph nodes are a group of twenty to thirty large lymph nodes located in the deep tissues in and around the armpit. These nodes are arranged into five distinct groups: pectoral (anterior), lateral, subscapular (posterior), central (intermediate), and subclavicular (medial)....
An armpit lump usually refers to the enlargement of at least one of the lymph nodes under your arm. Lymph nodes are small, oval-shaped glands that are located throughout the body and play an important role in your body’s immune system. The lump may feel small. In other cases, it may be extremely noticeable. Armpit lumps may be caused by cysts, infection, or irritation due to shaving or using antiperspirants.
1. Know where the lymph nodes are located. You have the highest concentration of lymph nodes in your neck, around your collarbone, in your armpits, and in your groin. 1  Lymph nodes are present in groups, and are about the size of a pea or bean. 2  Lymph nodes located in the groin are also called inguinal lymph nodes.
Lymph Node Locations. Lymph nodes are distributed throughout the lymphatic system appearing in singles or in groups. They are most obvious at the neck, armpit, groins and collar bone. Some are buried deeply in the body. A lymph node is a small organ in the lymph or lymphatic system, an interconnected system of organs, vessels, ducts and nodes that allows the lymph to circulate all over the body.
Part of the immune system is the lymph system, which includes hundreds of nodes that are located throughout the body. They are instrumental in fighting infection, illness, and disease. There are about 25 axillary lymph nodes that are located in the armpit area. They drain fluid from the breasts and surrounding area. They can become swollen, sensitive, or enlarged when there is a health problem, like a breast infection or cancer.