12m is the average of players who are great but less than 8 years in the league(LeBron James, Carmelo … Anthony, Amare Stoudemire). 16m for star players who are veteran(Ray Allen, Dirk Nowitzki, Baron Davis). 20m for superstar players who are veteran(Allen Iverson, Kobe Bryant, Kevin Garnett, Tim Duncan, Shaq). The NBL is Australia's main basketball league. The maximum player salary is $175,000, Australian dollars. That is just over $179,000 Americ
An overseas career can be quite lucrative. Research has shown that the average salary of an overseas basketball player ranges from $1,500 per month for a fifth division player to $20,000 per month for a first division player. The highest paid basketball players are properly trained and prepared for the European style of basketball play. 
Follow Business Insider: Manchester City is the highest-paid team in the world as their players have an average annual salary of $8.1 million. But if we look at all the teams, basketball players in the NBA have the largest average salary of any league in the world. The average NBA player made $4.5 million last year, slightly better than the average salary for players in India's top cricket league, the Indian Premier League. 
Now in its 19th season, the Chinese Basketball Association (CBA) season will tip off next week with its most prized class of Americans. Many have played in the NBA and are still young and talented enough to return to the world's top hoops league. (M ost of the Chinese players, on the other hand, lived in dorms and commuted themselves.) Then after the 2008 Summer Olympics, China's restaurant and shopping options became more inviting to
The CBA should also not be confused with the National Basketball League (NBL), which is a professional Division 2 minor league. A few Chinese CBA players, such as Wang Zhizhi, Yao Ming, Mengke Bateer, Yi Jianlian, Yi Hung Chen, and Sun Yue, have also played in the National Basketball Association (NBA). Conversely, a limited number of foreign players are allowed for each CBA team. 
Getty Images. Like many of the top American women's basketball players, Brittney Griner spends her WNBA offseason playing basketball overseas and when the salaries are compared it is easy to see why. Griner, who was the top pick of the 2013 WNBA Draft by the Phoenix Mercury, made $49,440 her rookie season. A few weeks after her rookie season, Griner left for the Women's Chinese Basketball Association where she played three months for the Zhejiang Golden Bulls and made $600,000 according to ESPN the Magazine. Maya Moore, who was the top pick in the 2011 draft, makes $59,552 per season in the WNBA and at least $600,000 playing in China. The 12-team WCBA limits rosters to one non-Asian player which may be why more money can be thrown at American stars. But China is not alone in attracting American women.
The average salary for basketball player in Netherlands depends on  how many years they have been in the league. Good players make $10  million to $15 million per year, The NBL is Australia's main basketball league. The maximum player salary is $175,000, Australian dollars. That is just over $179,000 Americ
$25.2 million During his 16 year career with the Los Angeles Lakers, Kobe Bryant has earned just over $221 million in salary alone. He has earned millions more from endorsements.Kobe Bryant is an American basketball superstar who plays for the Los Angeles Lakers and has a net worth of $200 million. Kobe Bryant was born on August 23rd, 1978 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
After earning nearly $22 million in the NBA last season, Stephon Marbury(notes) has taken a substantial pay cut to play in the Chinese Basketball Association: $25,000 per a month, a source familiar with the deal told Yahoo! 
The average salary for a Mexican league basketball player is around  $5,000 a month. This is quite low in comparison to American  players, but considering the minimum wage i … n Mexico is $5 a day it  is actually a high salary. The NBL is Australia's main basketball league. The maximum player salary is $175,000, Australian dollars. That is just over $179,000 Americ