This method works best if the eggs are in a single layer, but you can double them up as well, you'll just need to add more time to the steaming time. 3 Set your timer for 6 minutes for soft boiled, 10 minutes for hard boiled with a still translucent and bright yolk, or 12-15 minutes for cooked-through hard boiled.
1 Add eggs to steamer insert and steam for 15 minutes. 2  Immediately transfer eggs to a bowl of ice water until cool enough to handle. 3  Make a small crack on the large end of each egg and place eggs back into the ice water for about 20 minutes.
1. If serving eggs cold, add 1 tray of ice cubes to a large bowl and fill with water. Fill a large pot with 1 inch of water. Place steamer insert inside, cover, and bring to a boil over high heat. Add eggs to steamer basket, cover, and continue cooking 6 minutes for soft boiled or 12 minute for hard. Serve immediately if serving hot. If serving cold, immediately place eggs in a bowl of ice water and allow to cool for at least 15 minutes before peeling under cool running water.
1 Bring water to just below a boil. 2  Add eggs to steamer insert and steam for 15 minutes. 3  Immediately transfer eggs to a bowl of ice water until cool enough to handle. 4  Make a small crack on the large end of each egg and place eggs back into the ice water for about 20 minutes.
Place the eggs in the colander, and the colander in the pot. Bring the water to a boil, and place the lid on top. Allow the eggs to steam for 20-22 minutes. Remove the colander (or steamer basket) from the pot and rinse the eggs with cold water to halt the cooking process.
1 (You want enough water in the pan so that you can boil for 15 to 20 minutes.). 2  Add eggs to basket and cover the pan with a lid. 3  Bring water to a boil then turn down the heat and simmer for 15 to 20 minutes (depending on how “hard” you want them.). 4  Allow the eggs to cool enough to be able to handle and then peel them.
Bring the water to a boil first then cover and reduce the heat to med-high, not low then set timer for 10 to 15 minutes depending on size of eggs and how done you want the center. I like them slightly soft and do extra large eggs at 11 minutes.