Many physicians specialize and pathologists are no exception. Blood banking and transfusion medicine is one major subspecialty in pathology. Chemical pathologists are expert in detecting changes in blood and body fluids that occur in certain diseases or after the administration of medications, street drugs or poisons. A pathologist interprets the results of these tests to determine if a disease is present and how serious or advanced it might be. In addition to laboratory examinations, some pathologists perform autopsies, or post mortems, which can contribute valuable information about the cause of death and other medical conditions.
A forensic pathologist job description isn't exhilarating, but the salary sure is! Learn how to begin a career in forensic pathology & what the best schools are. 
Medical pathologists are physicians who specialize in diagnosing and studying diseases using laboratory methods. Many of these jobs require completion of medical school, as well as post-graduate training though residencies. Licensure is required for all kinds of physicians, and board certification is available for pathologists. Since many medical pathologists spend the majority of their time in the laboratory, this career may be best-suited for individuals who do not desire much patient contact.
Job Description for a Medical Pathologist. Medical pathologists are usually either clinical or anatomical pathologists. Clinical pathologists mainly examine body fluids, including blood, urine and bone marrow. Licensure is required for all kinds of physicians, and board certification is available for pathologists. Since many medical pathologists spend the majority of their time in the laboratory, this career may be best-suited for individuals who do not desire much patient contact.
Pathologist Job Description. Pathology, which is the study of disease, dates back to ancient civilizations. Bodies were studied prior to burial to determine the cause of death. However, it remained a largely unscientific process until the mid-19 th century when the microscope was invented.
The pathologists' primary realm is the laboratory, where they preside over a range of medical tests to determine the conditions of patients. These tests target tissue samples and samples of blood and other bodily fluids. 
The medical director of a laboratory is usually a pathologist. Pathologists might also oversee blood banks to ensure that blood products are correctly managed and safe for administration. A pathologist interprets the results of these tests to determine if a disease is present and how serious or advanced it might be. In addition to laboratory examinations, some pathologists perform autopsies, or post mortems, which can contribute valuable information about the cause of death and other medical conditions.
Essential Tasks. Pathologists conduct laboratory tests to understand disease in patients of other physicians. They determine if a disease is present and the stage of the disease. They predict the progression of the disease and help determine the best ways to treat the disease. Speech Pathology Job Description. Speech pathologists, also called speech-language pathologists, work with people who have disorders related to speech and language.
Explore the career requirements for pathologists. Get the facts about education and licensure requirements, salary and potential job growth to determine if this is the right career for you. Schools offering Anatomy & Physiology degrees can also be found in these popular choices. As a pathologist, you might examine and diagnose bodily fluids, such as blood and urine, or tissues from biopsies and Pap smears, to diagnose disease. You may possibly perform autopsies to determine a cause of death.
Pathologists are physicians who study and diagnose disease. They work primarily in community hospitals, university medical centers and reference laboratories, although some also work in private industry. A relatively small number become coroners or medical examiners. A pathologist interprets the results of these tests to determine if a disease is present and how serious or advanced it might be. In addition to laboratory examinations, some pathologists perform autopsies, or post mortems, which can contribute valuable information about the cause of death and other medical conditions.