Your body makes its own fat from taking in excess calories. Some fats are found in foods from plants and animals and are known as dietary fat. Dietary fat is a macronutrient that provides energy for your body. Fat is essential to your health because it supports a number of your body's functions. Some vitamins, for instance, must have fat to dissolve and nourish your body
Nuts. Nuts are a great source of energy and nutrients. They are high in unsaturated fats, providing protection against cardiovascular disease. Foods rich in protein typically contain a high amount of saturated (bad) fat (beef, pork, dairy). Nuts are a good non-meat source of protein and therefore low in saturated fat. Nuts make great snacks to keep you full between meals. Unsaturated fats, also known as healthy or good fats, decrease cholesterol levels and reduce the risk of developing cardiovascular disease. Cutting all fats out of your diet results in missing out on some important health benefits. 1. Fish. Fish is a great source of unsaturated fat and lean protein.
Monounsaturated fats are mainly found in natural foods like nuts, avocados, olive oil, and grape-seed oil, corn oil and canola oil. Olive oil, a key component of the much-vaunted Mediterranean diet, known for its cardiovascular health promoting benefits, is the best source of monounsaturated fat at 75 percent. 
Top 5 Sources of Good Fats. Fat is one of the macronutrients providing the body with energy and essential nutrients. Fat is the most energy dense of the macronutrients providing nine calories per gram versus four calories per gram found in carbohydrates and proteins. Unsaturated fats, also known as healthy or good fats, decrease cholesterol levels and reduce the risk of developing cardiovascular disease. Cutting all fats out of your diet results in missing out on some important health benefits. 1. Fish. Fish is a great source of unsaturated fat and lean protein.
The main sources of fat are Whole milk provides 8 g of fat per exchange, Meat (medium fat gives 5 g, lean meat gives 3g, and very lean meat gives 0-1g of fat), butter, oil, margarine or mayonnaise, salad dressing, olives, peanuts, avocado, bacon, shredded coconut, cream cheese all provieds 5 g of fat per exchange. Fat is a nutrient that is stored in body and it stores energy which is useful while we work. Too much fats are dangerous as it leads to obesity. Fat provides materials for m … aking cell membrane. It also creates an insulating layer beneath the skin that helps to retain the body heat. 1 person found this useful.
There are various sources of fat or oils available for swine producers to use such as feed grade animal, poultry, choice white grease (pork), tallow (beef), yellow grease (restaurant grease), vegetable oils (canola, corn or soybean), and blended animal/vegetable fats. Table 1 reports some of the characteristics of lipid sources (fats or oils) used in swine diets. Usually daily feed intake decrease, daily gain increases slightly and feed efficiency improves when dietary fat is added to the diet. Fat consistently improves feed efficiency by 2 % for each 1 % increment of added fat.
The major source of trans fat are deep fried food(vegetable shortening) cakes, cookies, doughnuts, pastry, crackers, snack chips, margarine, limited cheese, meat and dairy.  … Remember, for health benifit your total intake of trans fat should be less then 1% of your total Kcal intake. Fat is a nutrient that is stored in body and it stores energy which is useful while we work. Too much fats are dangerous as it leads to obesity. Fat provides materials for m … aking cell membrane. It also creates an insulating layer beneath the skin that helps to retain the body heat. 1 person found this useful.
Salmon, flax seeds and walnuts are excellent sources of omega 3 fatty acids. Very good sources of these healthy fats include scallops, cauliflower, cabbage, cloves and mustard seeds. Good sources of these fats include halibut, shrimp, cod, tuna, soybeans, tofu, kale, collard greens, and Brussels sprouts. Fat Facts. All these foods also contain dietary cholesterol. Foods from plant sources that contain saturated fat include coconut, coconut oil, palm oil and palm kernel oil (often called tropical oils), and cocoa butter.
Foods from animal sources that are rich in saturated fats include beef, beef fat, veal, lamb, pork, lard, poultry fat, butter, cream, milk, cheeses and other dairy products made from whole and 2 percent milk. All these foods also contain dietary cholesterol. Foods from plant sources that contain saturated fat include coconut, coconut oil, palm oil and palm kernel oil (often called tropical oils), and cocoa butter.