Best Answer: Magna Carta was the first document forced onto a King of England by a group of his subjects, the feudal barons, in an attempt to limit his powers by law and protect their privileges. Magna Carta (Great Charter) and English Common Law are the basis upon which the American Constitution was written. Then add the King James Bible of c1611 and you know the rest. Freedom, Liberty and Democracy but not until a lot of war between ourselves, them and us etc.
Magna Carta. On the 19 June 1215 at Runnymede King John signed the Magna Carta. (This means Great Charter.). It was the first formal document stating that a King had to follow the laws of the land and it guaranteed the rights of individuals against the wishes of the King. 
Magna Carta was written by a group of 13th-century barons to protect their rights and property against a tyrannical king. It is concerned with many practical matters and specific grievances relevant to the feudal system under which they lived. The democratic aspiration is no mere recent phase in human history. . . It was written in Magna Carta.. --Franklin Delano Roosevelt, 1941 Inaugural address. On June 15, 1215, in a field at Runnymede, King John affixed his seal to Magna Carta.
(Answer #1). Magna Carta, which in Latin means great charter, is a document that was drawn up by English Barons, who forced King John to approve it in June 1215. This documents, which played a decisive role in the development of constitutional government in England, granted many rights to the English aristocracy. The Magna Carta was the result of opposition of a group of barons and church leaders to the arbitrary and abusive use of power by John who became king in 1199. In 1213, they jointly called for a halt to the king's injustices, and prepared a list of rights they wanted for themselves.
The Magna Carta was written in order to set down certain basic  rights for all people.    Magna Carta is Latin for Great Charter. The document outlined  rights whic … h became part of English law and which are now the  foundation of the constitution of all countries which speak  English. 
Best Answer: Magna Carta (Latin for Great Charter, literally Great Paper), also called Magna Carta Libertatum (Great Charter of Freedoms), is an English charter originally issued in 1215. Magna Carta required the king to renounce certain rights, respect certain legal procedures and accept that the will of the king could be bound by law. Many clauses were renewed throughout the Middle Ages, and further during the Tudor and Stuart periods, and the 17th and 18th centuries
It holds the king accountable to the law. Magna Carta is the most famous document of English constitutional history. You can find the original, shown above, at the British Library in London. Magna Carta was written in Latin and sealed by King John of England in the year 1215. Explore the original document. Read the full English translation of Magna Carta.
Passionate about all things Australian. The Magna Carta was written in order to set down certain basic rights for all people. Magna Carta is Latin for Great Charter. The document outlined rights which became part of English law and which are now the foundation of the constitution of all countries which speak English. It did not grant any new rights, but it did protect existing rights in writing