Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is a member of the herpes virus family that includes the two well-known herpes viruses, I and II, the chickenpox virus, and the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). All of these viruses commonly infect humans, and all persist in our bodies for our lifetimes once we have been infected. 
Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is a member of the herpes virus group, which includes the viruses that causes chicken pox, mononucleosis (mono) and herpes simplexes 1 and 2. The viruses all share the ability to remain dormant in the body for a long time. There is currently no cure for CMV. CMV infections are rarely diagnosed because the virus produces few, if any symptoms. As with HIV, the body develops antibodies to the virus and there are a number of lab tests that can detect the antibodies. Also the virus can be cultured from urine, throat swabs, and tissue samples.
1 IgG antibodies are produced by the body several weeks after the initial CMV infection and provide protection from primary infections. 2  Levels of IgG rise during the active infection, then stabilize as the CMV infection resolves and the virus becomes inactive. Antibody testing. A positive CMV IgG and IgM in a symptomatic person means it is likely that the person has either recently been exposed to CMV for the first time or that a previous CMV infection has been reactivated. This can be confirmed by measuring IgG levels again 2 or 3 weeks later
Cytomegalovirus (CMV) belongs to the herpes virus family. Infection with CMV is very common. Between 50% and 80% of people in the United States have had a CMV infection by the time they are 40 years according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
Active infection with CMV can be diagnosed by PCR or viral culture of CMV from urine, saliva, throat swab specimens or other body tissues. Serologic tests that detect CMV antibodies (IgM and IgG antibody to CMV) are widely available from commercial laboratories. The enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) is the most commonly available serologic test for measuring antibody to CMV.
CMV IgG is a type of blood test to test the presence of IgG antibodies which are active in the event of a CMV or cytomegalovirus infection. IgG antibodies are protein substances that are produced by the body to fight the infection caused by the cytomegalovirus. NO fasting is required when taking the CMV IgG blood test. The blood sample of the patient involved will be studied in the laboratory for the presence of IgG antibodies or proteins. A positive result could mean that the person being tested has had a past or recent infection with
CMV IgG is a helpful diagnostic test especially during the primary and acute phase of CMV infection. Patients who may have infectious mononucleosis and women who are pregnant are typically advised to undergo the CMV IgG blood test in order to determine if they were exposed to the cytomegalovirus in the recent past. Cytomegalovirus is a type of virus that belongs to the herpes virus family. NO fasting is required when taking the CMV IgG blood test. The blood sample of the patient involved will be studied in the laboratory for the presence of IgG antibodies or proteins. A positive result could mean that the person being tested has had a past or recent infection with the cytomegalovirus.
CMV antibody testing may be used to determine immunity to primary CMV infections for people prior to organ or bone marrow transplantation and for a person diagnosed with HIV/AIDS. Since CMV infection is widespread and causes few problems to those with healthy immune systems, general population screening is rarely done. Antibody testing. A positive CMV IgG and IgM in a symptomatic person means it is likely that the person has either recently been exposed to CMV for the first time or that a previous CMV infection has been reactivated. This can be confirmed by measuring IgG levels again 2 or 3 weeks later
Cytomegalovirus IgG is used to find out whether one with symptoms and signs has an active Cytomegalovirus infection. Occasionally, it is ordered to determine whether one has a previous infection and as a result, is immune to the infection. There are some different methods of noticing an infection of CMV : Viral CMV detecting and Cytomegalovirus IgG antibody testing can be used diagnose main CMV infection in pregnant women, young adults, and some immune weakened people with mononucleosis like symptoms. The doctor can able to make a distinction between latent and active CMV.