Best Answer: You count from the start of it. I have a 30 day cycle but the norm is 28 days but not all people are alike. Go to http://www.mymonthlycycles.com and put in your period info and it will calculate when you will be fertile and ovulating plus it keeps tracks of your periods.
The typical length of time between the first day of one period and the first day of the next is 21 to 45 days in young women and 21 to 31 days in adults (an average of 28 days). 
It also prepares your body for pregnancy each month. A cycle is counted from the first day of 1 period to the first day of the next period. The average menstrual cycle is 28 days long. Cycles can range anywhere from 21 to 35 days in adults and from 21 to 45 days in young teens. The rise and fall of levels of hormones during the month control the menstrual cycle.
The menstrual cycle is from Day 1 of bleeding to Day 1 of the next time of bleeding. Although the average cycle is 28 days, it is normal to have a cycle that is shorter or longer. Girls usually start having menstrual periods between the ages of 11 and 14. Women usually start to have fewer periods between ages 39 and 51. Women in their 40s and teens may have cycles that are longer or change a lot. 
The average age of the first period is generally later in the developing world and earlier in developed world. The typical length of time between the first day of one period and the first day of the next is 21 to 45 days in young women and 21 to 31 days in adults (an average of 28 days). Menstruation stops occurring after menopause which usually occurs between 45 and 55 years of age. Bleeding usually lasts around 2 to 7 days. 
If you have a regular 28-day cycle you will start your period every four weeks. If you have a 22-day cycle you'll have a period about every three weeks. The average period lasts for three to four days, but it can be shorter or longer, ranging from between one and seven days. It's hard to say what's normal, as every woman has a cycle that is unique to her. A normal menstrual cycle could be as short as 22 days or as long as 36 days. When doctors talk about the length of your cycle, they include the days when you have your period.
Your menstrual cycle starts on the first day of your period and ends when the next period starts. Day one of your cycle is always the first day of bleeding. The average length of a cycle is 28 days but it can be significantly shorter or longer. There is no ‘normal’ cycle length. In a 28-day cycle you would ovulate, or release an egg, around day 14. 
Every month during your period the lining of your womb is shed together with some blood. The time between the start of one period and the start of the next is called the menstrual cycle. The average length of a menstrual cycle is 28 days, but anything between 24 and 35 days is common. During the cycle various changes occur in your body. These are caused by changing amounts of your female hormones at different times of your cycle. 
Most women ovulate between 12 and 14 days before their period. This is an average, so it could be a few days sooner or later than this. If you have a 28-day cycle, you will probably ovulate in the middle of your cycle. If you have a 22-day cycle, you could ovulate just a few days after your period. It's hard to say what's normal, as every woman has a cycle that is unique to her. A normal menstrual cycle could be as short as 22 days or as long as 36 days. When doctors talk about the length of your cycle, they include the days when you have
The menstrual cycle is measured from the first day of menstrual bleeding, Day 1, up to Day 1 of your next menstrual bleeding. Although 28 days is the average cycle length, it is normal to have a cycle that is shorter or longer. 1  A teen's cycles may be long (up to 45 days), growing shorter over several years.