In the US our individual rights are protected by law under the U.S. Bill of Rights and the Constitution.   In a more specific example, our rights are also protected b … y policemen and the judicial system.
The Constitution protects freedom in many ways. here are three ways. 1  It sets up a fair form of government. 2  You can't be free without justice. 3  It sets up rules for the government to work within by creating boundaries for state government laws and federal government laws (see the 10th amendment).
The U.S. Constitution protects individual rights through the Bill of Rights, the first ten amendments to the Constitution. Some of the freedoms listed are freedom of speech, f … reedom of religion, freedom of the press, etc.
In the US our individual rights are protected by law under the U.S. Bill of Rights and the Constitution.   In a more specific example, our rights are also protected b … y policemen and the judicial system.
The Constitution does. The government makes laws and enforces them but the constitution actually protects individual's rights. The US is a constitutional federated republic. The government is kept in check by the constitution.
The original Constitution—completed September 17, 1787—didn’t directly address individual rights. Its purpose was to establish a strong government in the wake of the failed Articles of Confederation, which was our country’s first governmental plan.
Here are five parts of the Constitution that support and protect our individual rights and freedoms: The Bill of Rights – The Bill of Rights was introduced by James Madison (the fourth president) in 1789 and became the first 10 Constitutional Amendments in 1791. The Bill of Rights defines the following rights:
The original text of the Constitution contained very few provisions protecting individual rights. This probably occurred for two reasons. First, some of the framers believed that they had created a central government with limited powers that would not have the authority to violate