So the medical science liaison is working day to day with other doctors as they are educating them and sharing information with them, and also can take ideas back from those physicians to about how a product might be used better; maybe in a different patient population or in a completely different indication.
The medical science liaison role is one that is more outwardly focused. It typically, is dealing with products that are already on the market that have received their FDA approvals or clearances are being utilized by physicians.
The medical science liaison works very closely with the sales force in terms of educating potential buyers of the products that a company has developed, in terms of answering their questions on more a clinical academic level while the salesperson deals with the day to day sales processes.
Medical Science Liaisons work in an advocacy role to support the commercial development of medical therapies and pharmaceutical drug products to key physician customers.
A medical science liaison (MSL) is a healthcare consultant employed by pharmaceutical companies, managed care programs or insurance companies. Find out about the experience and education you'll need for this position, and get information on job growth and salary projections.
I currently work as a medical science liaison (MSL) covering the Pacific Northwest region, a geography spanning from Bellingham, WA to San Jose, CA and to the eastern edge of Utah, but my path to this position has been anything but a straight line.
A medical science liaison is a person who acts as a bridge of communication between clinical medicine, and other areas of the healthcare industry such as pharmaceutical or medical device manufacturing.
The medical science liaison is a somewhat of a spokesperson and educator, with a bit of clinician and salesperson mixed in. Demand for Medical Science Liaisons: The competition for roles as a medical science liaison is very tough, as with most non-clinical roles for former clinicians or scientists.
The Medical Science Liaison (MSL) is a specific role within the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device, CRO and other health-care industries. MSLs have advanced scientific training and academic credentials generally consisting of a doctorate degree (Ph.D., PharmD., M.D.) in the life sciences.