While mouth fungus usually develops quickly, it can become a chronic condition if you do not treat it properly and/or identify the cause of your infection. If not identified and treated, thrush can spread to other areas of the body, including the skin, lungs and liver. (Hemera Technologies/AbleStock.com/Getty Images). 
Fungal infections are infections caused by a fungus, a type of microorganism. Two common causes of fungal infections are a fungus called tinea and yeast infections caused by the fungus Candida albicans. Some very common types of fungal infections caused by tinea include: Athlete’s foot. Jock itch.
A. A. A. Thrush is an infection of the mouth caused by the candida fungus, also known as yeast. Candida infection is not limited to the mouth; it can occur in other parts of the body as well, causing diaper rash in infants or vaginal yeast infections in women.
1 Mouth fungus is an infection of the mouth caused by the candida fungus, also known as yeast. 2  Candida infection is not limited to the mouth; it can occur in other parts of the body as well, causing diaper rash in infants or vaginal yeast infections in women. 1 A common sign of mouth fungus is the presence of creamy white, slightly raised lesions in the mouth—usually on your tongue or inner cheeks—but also sometimes on the roof of the mouth, gums, tonsils, or back of the throat.
Information On Mouth Fungus. 1  Mouth fungus is an infection of the mouth caused by the candida fungus, also known as yeast. 2  Candida infection is not limited to the mouth; it can occur in other parts of the body as well, causing diaper rash in infants or vaginal yeast infections in women. 1 A common sign of mouth fungus is the presence of creamy white, slightly raised lesions in the mouth—usually on your tongue or inner cheeks—but also sometimes on the roof of the mouth, gums, tonsils, or back of the throat.
Candidiasis is a fungal infection which gradually invades lips. This infection starts from mouth and spreads to lips. This infection is called thrust. The fungus, Candida yeast grows vigorously in warm and moist conditions. If Candida yeast grows on lips, it is called Plasta Cheilitis. 
Candidiasis (Candidosis) is the most common fungal infection of the mouth (oral cavity). This article, however, focuses on noncandidal oral fungal infections. Other Medscape Reference articles on candidiasis include Candidiasis, Chronic Mucocutaneous; Candidiasis, Mucosal; and Candidiasis, Cutaneous. 
Information On Mouth Fungus. 1  Mouth fungus is an infection of the mouth caused by the candida fungus, also known as yeast. 2  Mouth fungus can affect anyone, though it occurs most often in babies and toddlers, older adults, and people with weakened immune systems. 1 A common sign of mouth fungus is the presence of creamy white, slightly raised lesions in the mouth—usually on your tongue or inner cheeks—but also sometimes on the roof of the mouth, gums, tonsils, or back of the throat.
Around one in five people in the UK have athlete’s foot. It's caused by a fungus that grows in warm, damp areas of skin, such as between your toes. The fungal infection makes your skin itchy, flaky and red. It also causes white cracks to appear, especially between your toes and on the side of your foot. Occasionally it causes blisters. Symptoms Symptoms of fungal skin infections. The symptoms and appearance of a fungal skin infection depend on the type of fungus that has caused it. They will also depend on which part of your body is affected. Fungal rashes are sometimes confused with other skin conditions, such as psoriasis and eczema.