The sternum is a long, flat bone, forming the middle portion of the front of the chest. The top of the sternum supports the clavicles (collarbones) and its edges join with the cartilages of the first seven pairs of ribs. The manubrium joins with the body of the sternum, the clavicles and the cartilages of the first pair of ribs. The inferior border, oval and rough, is covered with a thin layer of cartilage for articulation with the body.
The sternum, also known as the breastbone, is the bone located in the center of the chest where the upper ribs converge. It protects the heart and lungs from injury and helps to stabilize the structure of the ribcage. It is found in most vertebrates — exceptions include fish, snakes, and turtles. 
The sternum, also called the breastbone, is a long, flat bone in the center of the chest. It is connected to the ribs with cartilage. Together with the ribs, it helps to protect important organs in the chest, such as the heart and lungs, from damage. By Healthwise Staff. 
The sides of the manubrium and the body are notched where they unite with costal cartilages. The body of the sternum is the middle portion of the sternum, or breastbone, which is a long, narrow, flat plate that forms the center of the front of the chest. It develops in three parts. Body of Sternum. The body of the sternum is the middle portion of the sternum, or breastbone, which is a long, narrow, flat plate that forms the center of the front of the chest.
Sternum. The sternum, commonly known as the breastbone, is a long, narrow flat bone that serves as the keystone of the rib cage and stabilizes the thoracic skeleton. Several muscles that move the arms, head, and neck have their origins on the sternum. Click to read more below. The sternum, commonly known as the breastbone, is a long, narrow flat bone that serves as the keystone of the rib cage and stabilizes the thoracic skeleton. Several muscles that move the arms, head, and neck have their origins on the sternum.
Sternum. The sternum, or breastbone, is a flat bone at the front center of the chest. The ribs and sternum make up what is called the ribcage.. The ribcage protects the lungs, blood vessels, and heart, along with parts of the spleen, stomach, and kidneys from traumatic injury. The sternum is attached to the first seven ribs and also to the clavicle, or collarbone. The sternum is made up of three parts called the manubrim, the body, and the xiphoid process. In adults, the sternum portions are fused. The top of the sternum is the manubrim, or handle. It is connected to the first two ribs and is not completely rigid. The body, also called the blade or gladiolus, is right in the middle of the sternum. It connects to the third through seventh ribs directly and the eighth through tenth ribs indirectl
The sternum or breastbone is a long flat bone shaped like a necktie located in the center of the chest. It connects to the ribs via cartilage, forming the front of the rib cage, and thus helps to protect the heart, lungs, heart and major blood vessels from injury. The manubrium joins with the body of the sternum, the clavicles and the cartilages of the first pair of ribs. The inferior border, oval and rough, is covered with a thin layer of cartilage for articulation with the body.