Noun. 1. network topology-the configuration of a communication network. topology. bus topology, bus-the topology of a network whose components are connected by a busbar. 
1 fully connected topology: A network topology in which there is a direct path (branch) between any two nodes. 2  Note: In a fully connected network with n nodes, there are n(n-1)/2 direct paths, i.e., branches. 3  Synonym fully connected mesh network. 4  hybrid topology: A combination of any two or more network topologies. bus topology: A network topology in which all nodes, i.e., stations, are connected together by a single bus. fully connected topology: A network topology in which there is a direct path (branch) between any two nodes.
When a computer or other networking component transmits a signal to the network, the signal travels to the hub, which forwards the signal simultaneously to all other components connected to the hub. Star topology is used to. 1  Connect computers in a workgroup or departmental local area network (LAN) using a hub. 2  Connect workgroup or departmental hubs using a master hub or switch.
Network Topology. A network topology describes the arrangement of systems on a computer network. It defines how the computers, or nodes, within the network are arranged and connected to each other. Some common network topologies include star, ring, line, bus, and tree configurations
network topology. bus topology: A network topology in which all nodes, i.e., stations, are connected together by a single bus. fully connected topology: A network topology in which there is a direct path (branch) between any two nodes. Note: In a fully connected network with n nodes, there are n(n-1)/2 direct paths, i.e., branches.
Star Topology. Many home networks use the star topology. A star network features a central connection point called a hub node that may be a network hub, switch or router. Devices typically connect to the hub with Un-shielded Twisted Pair (UTP) Ethernet. 
Use star topology in a sentence. Show more usage examples... When a network is set up using a star topology configuration, all the components of the network are connected to a central hub which is usually the router or a switch. This can raise several issues as the technology changes and the network grows. 
vs. Brocade VCS. A star network is a local area network (LAN) in which all node s (workstations or other devices) are directly connected to a common central computer. Every workstation is indirectly connected to every other through the central computer. 