A goldendoodle as the name implies is a mix between a golden retriever and a poodle. This combination of breeds and name were created back in 1992 and have greatly risen in popularity since then. Most goldendoodles have the color of a golden retriever but the coat of a poodle and can vary in size. 1 Goldendoodles that cost less than $400 should be questioned. 2  There could be a good chance that the dog was not bred the way it should be. 3  There could be a good chance that older dogs end up at the shelter. 4  If you do not mind adopting an older dog, they can be adopted for less than $150.
1 The normal size for a Small English Goldendoodle is approximately 12 - 15 (from the shoulder to the paw) with no correlation between height and sex of the Small English Goldendoodle. 2  Weight range tends to be 18-30 pounds. Medium English Goldendoodles: $2,850. We are also proud to annouce that we developed and produced the World's First Medium Teddy Bear English Goldendoodles. This is our MOST popular Teddy Bear English Goldendoodle size.
Your check of $50.00 along with a Puppy Deposit Application will secure your place in the puppy selection process when the litter arrives. This $50.00 is also applied to the price of your puppy. If you are on the waiting list, the balance of $150.00 will be due when the puppies are born. Puppies “On the Ground” (If you are not on a waiting list) the deposit is $200.00. Puppies are shipped after they are 8 weeks old. Shipping is an additional of about $300.00 to $350.00*. This cost includes the airline approved carrier, airline flight, FDA veterinarian health certificates required by the FDA, gas & time to/from the airport as well as sending your puppy packet to you.
RE: how much does a goldendoodle puppy cost? i already know you can adopt one for around 150, but i want to know how much should someone expect to pay, if they don&#39;t adopt, I&#39;m talking the intitial purchase price. 
1 Be very wary of cheaper dogs. 2  Goldendoodles that cost less than $400 should be questioned. 3  There could be a good chance that the dog was not bred the way it should be. 4  There could be a good chance that older dogs end up at the shelter. 1 Goldendoodles that cost less than $400 should be questioned. 2  There could be a good chance that the dog was not bred the way it should be. 3  There could be a good chance that older dogs end up at the shelter. 4  If you do not mind adopting an older dog, they can be adopted for less than $150.
The Goldendoodle is a cross between a Golden Retriever and a Poodle (usually a Standard or Miniature). At their best, they are intelligent, friendly, and affectionate. They come in three sizes: miniature (weighing 15 to 30 pounds), medium (30 to 45 pounds), and standard (45 to more than 100 pounds). You can also search online for other Goldendoodle rescues in your area. The great thing about breed rescue groups is that they tend to be very upfront about any health conditions the dogs may have and are a valuable resource for advice.
A Goldendoodle is a cross-breed/hybrid dog obtained by breeding a golden retriever with a poodle. The name (which alters poodle to doodle in reference to the Labradoodle) was coined in 1992. The ranges of size include standard, medium, and miniature (if the poodle parent was miniature). Upon reaching adulthood, a standard goldendoodle will often weigh 60 to 100 pounds. A medium goldendoodle will weigh between 30 to 45 pounds and a miniature goldendoodle will weigh approximately 15 to 40 pounds.
The cost of a Goldendoodle puppy varies depending on the breeder’s locale and whether he has obtained health clearances on the pup’s parents. The puppy you buy should have been raised in a clean home environment, from parents with health clearances. You can also search online for other Goldendoodle rescues in your area. The great thing about breed rescue groups is that they tend to be very upfront about any health conditions the dogs may have and are a valuable resource for advice.
1 On average, a goldendoodle puppy that is under the age of 12 weeks can cost anywhere from $700 to as much as $1,800. 2  According to PuppyFind.com, they have over 600 classifieds that range anywhere from $700 to as much as $1,800. 3  The average puppy here is around 5 to 8 weeks old. 1 Goldendoodles that cost less than $400 should be questioned. 2  There could be a good chance that the dog was not bred the way it should be. 3  There could be a good chance that older dogs end up at the shelter. 4  If you do not mind adopting an older dog, they can be adopted for less than $150.