DAO deficiency is the functional lack of the main digestive enzyme responsible for the histamine elimination, a molecule found in food. Diamine oxidase enzyme or DAO is located in the intestinal mucosa mainly, thus acts during the digestion of food. In the metabolism of histamine, it should be degraded by DAO enzyme in order to become N-acetyl aldehyde imidazole; an accumulation of the amine is produced due to the lack of enzyme in the intestinal mucosa cells.
Individuals with low diamine oxidase (DAO) enzymes are at risk for elevated histamine and a condition called histamine intolerance. One of the major effects of histamine is causing the blood vessels to swell and dilate. When the body senses that it is threatened, it will secrete higher amounts of histamine. The experts state that DAO is the major enzyme involved in histamine metabolism. The enzyme converts the histamine into imidazole acetaldehyde which does not trigger any sort of reaction in the body.
Formula Details. HistoDAO™ is a patented enzyme formula containing diamine oxidase (DAO)—the main enzyme responsible for the degradation of ingested histamine. This enzyme has been clinically tested and found to break down food-derived histamine in the digestive tract. DAO is not absorbed and does not have systemic activity
Histamine intolerance is due to a (temporary) deficiency or an inhibition of the enzyme diamine oxidase (DAO). DAO is the enzyme responsible for the degradation of histamine. Although DAO is virtually found in the whole body, the bowels constitute its most important site of action. The histamine intolerance test measures the activity of the DAO contained in the blood, since the DAO circulates through the body in the blood. The blood is mixed with a substance similar to histamine and the degradation of this substance is measured.
The experts state that DAO is the major enzyme involved in histamine metabolism. (2) The enzyme converts the histamine into imidazole acetaldehyde which does not trigger any sort of reaction in the body. DAO is responsible for ensuring a steady histamine level required for the balance of numerous chemical reactions taking place in the body. Some individuals have deficiencies in DAO enzymes and therefore suffer with histamine reactions. These individuals should look to supplement with DAO enzymes, follow a low-histamine diet and improve the health of their gut.
Enzyme activity of diamine oxidase (DAO) in the blood plasma or serum. Some labs to give to determine the enzyme activity of diamine oxidase (DAO). This designation may be misleading. Measured is in fact usually the DAO concentration in blood plasma or blood serum (DAO level). With a genetic defect of the DAO gene, for example, the enzyme can be produced in normal amounts, but functionally reduced or be inoperable and, therefore, in an extreme case having 0 enzyme activity despite normal DAO concentration.
DAO enzyme. Several clinical studies have shown that deficiency of DAO enzyme is the trigger factor of migraine and other digestive disorders due to its participation in histamine metabolism. DAO enzyme is a protein that degrades histamine, a molecule present in every food of our daily diet. Deficiency of DAO enzyme, a syndrome that can explain the origin of many of the most common digestive and neurological manifestations.