Certified Associate in Project Management (CAPM) is a credential offered by the Project Management Institute (PMI). As of November 2013, there were 24,196 active CAPM certified individuals worldwide. PMI’s Certified Associate in Project Management (CAPM) is an entry-level certification for project practitioners. The CAPM exam is based on the A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge (aka the PMBOK Guide). The Certified Associate in Project Management (CAPM) Credential Handbook, notes the distribution of questions from the PMBOK: 1  Chapter 1 Introduction (0%).
CAPM stands for Certified Associate in Project Management. This designation is a stepping stone on the way to becoming a PMP, for those people who do not yet have enough experience to qualify for writing the PMP exam. If you do not currently meet the experience requirements for becoming a PMP, there are a number of options you can take to obtain project management credentials. One option is to obtain a CAPM (Certified Associate in Project Management) designation.
CAPM Certification and Exam Details. In 2003 PMI began offering an additional certification called the Certified Associate in Project Management (CAPM). The exam for the CAPM ® is easier than the PMP ® exam, requires less experience to qualify to take it, but covers the same topics as the PMP ® exam.
Project Management Professional (PMP) is an internationally recognized professional designation offered by the Project Management Institute (PMI). There are currently 658,523 active PMP certified individuals and 274 chartered chapters across 204 countries and territories worldwide. The exam is based on the PMI Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK), and requirements to sit for the exam include, a bachelor's degree, at least 4,500 hours of experience leading and directing projects, and 35 hours of formal project management education.
If you are considering applying to get CAPM certified, you might be wondering whether or not it is worth the time, cost, and effort to do so. As I have already done for the PMP examination, I’ll outline a few of the pros and cons that I personally perceive about PMI’s CAPM certification. While CAPM certification does not show managers or recruiters that you have experience leading and directing projects as does the more powerful PMP certification, it does show that you have at least some degree of dedication to a career in project management.
The CAPM is the Project Management Institute (PMI)’s entry level certification for project managers or people who are interested in entering the field of project management. While CAPM certification does not show managers or recruiters that you have experience leading and directing projects as does the more powerful PMP certification, it does show that you have at least some degree of dedication to a career in
Certified Associate in Project Management (CAPM®) certification is a valuable entry-level certification for project managers offered by the Project Management Institute. 
The Certified Associate in Project Management, CAPM, is a credential for project managers that the Project Management Institute offers to professionals. The organization is the largest association for project management in the United States, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. To qualify to take the certification examination, candidates must have a minimum of a high school diploma or equivalent. Project Management Institute also requires candidates to have a minimum of 1,500 hours of experience in a project management role.
Why CAPM is so popular. The certified associate in project management (CAPM) certification is a credential that is currently being offered by the Project Management Institute (PMI). The certification course has been designed specifically for beginners in project management. If you are planning to pursue a career in project management then the CAPM certification provides the perfect platform and recognition. It’s an important entry-level certification and those who achieve it are titled as a Certified Associate in Project Management.