Best Answer: It is very bad std. What is Chlamydia? Chlamydia is a common sexually transmitted disease (STD) caused by the bacterium, Chlamydia trachomatis, which can damage a woman's reproductive organs. STDs & Infertility In women, untreated infection can spread into the uterus or fallopian tubes and cause pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). This happens in about 10 to 15 percent of women with untreated chlamydia.
In women. Chlamydia can lead to pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). PID is a serious infection of the reproductive organs. PID can cause: 1  Infertility. 2  Tubal pregnancies, which can lead to death of the mother and unborn child. 3  Inflammation surrounding the liver. About half of the women with chlamydia do not have symptoms. When symptoms are present, they may include: 1  White, yellow or green discharge (fluid) from the vagina that may have a bad smell. 2  Bleeding between periods. 3  Itching or burning in or around the vagina. 4  Dull pain in the lower abdomen or pelvis.
Chlamydia is a common STD that can infect both men and women. It can cause serious, permanent damage to a woman's reproductive system, making it difficult or impossible for her to get pregnant later on. Chlamydia can also cause a potentially fatal ectopic pregnancy (pregnancy that occurs outside the womb). 
Chlamydia trachomatis (C. trachomatis) is a bacterium, and C.trachomatis infection is the most common sexually transmitted infection (STI). Both men and women can get chlamydia. When left untreated, chlamydia can cause: 1  Damage to the sex organs. 2  Sterility (the inability to have children). About half of the women with chlamydia do not have symptoms. When symptoms are present, they may include: 1  White, yellow or green discharge (fluid) from the vagina that may have a bad smell. 2  Bleeding between periods. 3  Itching or burning in or around the vagina. 4  Dull pain in the lower abdomen or pelvis.
Pelvic inflammatory disease is an infection of a woman’s reproductive organs. It is a complication often caused by some STDs, like chlamydia and gonorrhea. Other infections that are not sexually transmitted can also cause PID. 
Chlamydia trachomatis is a bacteria, which is found in the semen and vaginal fluids of men and women who have the infection. Chlamydia is easily passed from one person to another through sexual contact. Anyone who is sexually active can get it and pass it on. You don’t need to have lots of sexual partners. 
Chlamydia is caused by the bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis. The disease is spread by oral, vaginal, or anal sex, and if you touch your eyes with a contaminated hand, you may also develop conjunctivitis. Chlamydia can also be passed during vaginal birth to the infant. Chlamydia, which strikes over 4 million Americans a year, is the most common bacterial sexually transmitted disease (STD) in the U.S. Scientists believe it's twice as common as gonorrhea and 30 times as common as syphilis.
The good news is that because chlamydia is caused by a bacterium, it can easily be cured with antibiotics. The bad news is that you may not know you have it unless you get tested, because there may be few, if any, symptoms. About 75 percent of women and 50 percent of men have no symptoms at all. Chlamydia is transmitted through contact with infected mucous membranes of a partner during vaginal or anal sex, and more rarely, oral sex. If there are symptoms, they generally develop one to three weeks later and are usually mild. Men with chlamydia may experience urethral discharge and pain when urinating.
Chlamydia is a sexually transmitted disease (STD) that is caused by a type of bacteria called Chlamydia trachomatis. Both women and men can get it by having unprotected vaginal or anal sex with an infected partner. 
Chlamydia is an infection with Chlamydia trachomatis bacteria. When an infection is present, the bacteria can be present in the cervix, urethra, vagina, and rectum of an infected person. Chlamydia is a common sexually transmitted disease (STD). It affects both men and women and, in most cases, does not cause any symptoms. When it does produce symptom and signs, these may not appear for weeks after your infection. Symptoms in women include: 1  burning with urination, 2  an abnormal vaginal discharge,