The inferior vena cava (or IVC) is the large vein that carries de-oxygenated blood from the lower half of the body into the right atrium of the heart. Other veins entering the … atrium are the superior vena cava and the coronary sinus (vein from the heart muscle). The function of the Inferior Vena Cava is receiving blood from the lower extremities and then pumping that blood 
The inferior vena cava is also referred to as the posterior vena cava. The inferior vena cava is a large vein that carries de-oxygenated blood from the lower body to the heart. The inferior vena cava empties into the right atrium of the heart. The right atrium is located on the lower right back side of the heart. The inferior vena cava runs posterior, or behind, the abdominal cavity.
The inferior vena cava (or IVC) (Latin: vena, vein, cavus, hollow), is one of the venae cavae, two large veins, that carries deoxygenated blood from the body into the right atrium of the heart. Structure [edit]. The inferior vena cava is formed by the joining of the left and right common iliac veins and brings collected blood into the right atrium of the heart. It also joins with the azygos vein (which runs on the right side of the vertebral column) and venous plexuses next to the spinal cord.
Vena cava: The superior vena cava is the large vein which returns blood to the heart from the head, neck and both upper limbs. The inferior vena cava returns blood to the heart from the lower part of the body. The return of blood via the vena cava can be compromised and cause disease. 
The superior vena cava is a large, yet short vein that carries deoxygenated blood from the upper half of the body to the heart's right atrium. The inferior vena cava (or IVC) … is the large vein that carries de-oxygenated blood from the lower half of the body into the right atrium of the heart. The function of the Inferior Vena Cava is receiving blood from the lower extremities and then pumping that blood 
The inferior vena cava is the large vein that carries de-oxygenated blood from the lower half of the body into the right atrium of the heart. 13 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Don Dfoofnik. The function of the Inferior Vena Cava is receiving blood from the lower extremities and then pumping that blood 
The inferior vena cava is the largest vein in the body. It carries de-oxygenated blood from the lower extremities to the right atrium of the heart and then to the lungs. An inferior vena cava filter or IVC filter is a small cone-shaped device that is implanted in the inferior vena cava just below the kidneys.
The inferior vena cava carries blood from the lower half of the body whilst the superior vena cava carries blood from the upper half of the body. It is formed by the joining of the right and the left common iliac veins, usually at the level of the fifth lumbar vertebra. Structure [edit]. The inferior vena cava is formed by the joining of the left and right common iliac veins and brings collected blood into the right atrium of the heart. It also joins with the azygos vein (which runs on the right side of the vertebral column) and venous plexuses next to the spinal cord.
Click to read more below. The inferior vena cava is the largest vein in the human body. It collects blood from veins serving the tissues inferior to the heart and returns this blood to the right atrium of the heart. 
Inferior vena cava. The inferior vena cava is also referred to as the posterior vena cava. The inferior vena cava is a large vein that carries de-oxygenated blood from the lower body to the heart. De-oxygenated blood means most of the oxygen has been removed by tissues, and therefore the blood is darker. The inferior vena cava empties into the right atrium of the heart. The right atrium is located on the lower right back side of the heart. The inferior vena cava runs posterior, or behind, the abdominal cavity.