Babka is described in many ways, and its origins tend to be obscured. Some say babka is a classic Czech coffee cake, while others call it a traditional Polish cake. What is known is that babka is a yeasted sweet cake, popular in most of Eastern Europe, which is flavored with rum, studded with raisins, and considered a traditional treat on Easter. 
Babka is a spongy, brioche-like yeast cake made mainly in Central and Eastern Europe. It is traditionally baked for Easter Sunday in Poland, Bulgaria, Macedonia, and Albania, and for the major holidays (Christmas, Easter, New Year, Pentecost) in Romania. Instead of a fruit filling the dough contains cinnamon and/or chocolate. The babka is usually topped with streusel. A similar cake called a kokosh is also popular in Jewish bakeries.
1 Babka (bread) , a Ukrainian sweet, leavened bread made with a rich dough (often containing raisins), which is made for Easter Sunday to celebrate the rising of Christ. 2  Potato babka, a savoury Belarusian dish made from potato. 3  Babka (cake) , a sweet yeast cake. Babka may refer to: 1  Babka (bread) , a Ukrainian sweet, leavened bread made with a rich dough (often containing raisins), which is made for Easter Sunday to celebrate the rising of Christ. 2  Potato babka, a savoury Belarusian dish made from potato
Babka's current renaissance (which, sorry cinnamon fans, seems to be restricted to the chocolate version) can be attributed to two factors. The first is the continued proliferation of high quality bakeries across New York, many of which are including babka in their offerings alongside croissants. Regardless of the babka you go for, there are some rules. First and foremost, the babka must taste fresh. With so much babka at our fingertips there's no reason to settle for a stale loaf with a crumb that tastes like a cheap dinner roll.
Definition: Polish, literally, for grandmother.. In this context refers to a slightly sweet bread dotted with raisins or dried fruits and, sometimes, saturated with rum or iced or dusted with confectioners' sugar. Babka is traditionally served for Easter, but can be enjoyed year-round. 
Definition of BABKA. : a glazed sweet bread made with dried fruit (such as raisins). ADVERTISEMENT. Polish, diminutive of baba baba. Origin of BABKA. Polish, diminutive of baba baba. First Known Use: 1846. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged.
User Rating. Babka, which literally means grandmother in Polish, probably got the name because its shape is reminiscent of an old woman's wide, swirling skirts. Babka is a slightly sweet yeast bread similar to Italian panettone that can be made with rum-soaked raisins, and iced or left plain. It's an Easter favorite. 
As New York's biggest babka wholesaler, Green's is the babka you probably already know, even if you don't know it's Green's. But if you've ever tried the babka from Zabar's, Fairway, Russ and Daughters, or Whole Foods, then you've tasted it. Regardless of the babka you go for, there are some rules. First and foremost, the babka must taste fresh. With so much babka at our fingertips there's no reason to settle for a stale loaf with a crumb that tastes like a cheap dinner roll.
Another version of babka is associated with the Eastern European Jewish tradition. This babka is made from a doubled and twisted length of yeast dough and is typically baked in a high loaf pan. Instead of a fruit filling the dough contains cinnamon and/or chocolate. The babka is usually topped with streusel. A similar cake called a kokosh is also popular in Jewish bakeries.