The simplest measure of the spread of a distribution is the range, that is, the difference between the largest and smallest values recorded. However, this only provide very limited information regarding the pattern of spread, and several other measures are used in conjunction with, or in preference to, the range. 
As discussed in the Measures of Central Tendency pag e, the mode, median, and mean su mmarise the data into a single value that is typical or representative of all the values in the dataset, but this is only part of the 'picture' that summarises a dataset. It is also called the 75th percentile. The variance and the standard deviation are measures of the spread of the data around the mean. They summarise how close each observed data value is to the mean value. In datasets with a small spread all values are very close to the mean, resulting in a small variance and standard deviation
The four measures of center are mean, median, mode, and midrange. Mean – The mean is what you know as the average. It is calculated by taking all of the values in a set and dividing them by the total number of values in that set. The mean is very sensitive to outliers (more on outliers in a little bit). Example: The median of 1, 3, 5, 5, 5, 7, and 29 is 5 (the number in the middle). Mode – The mode is the number that repeats most often in a data set. It’s seldom used in statistics as a reliable measure of center.
Answers. Best Answer: center is mean (average). Spread is the distance the points in a data set that make up that mean from the mean. A data set of 4,5, and 6 make a mean of 5. The spread is the distance each of those points are from the mean: 4: 1 point away 5: 0 points away 6: 1 point away. Variance is a measure of how close the data collectively is from the mean
The Most Common measures of Center: 1) Mean 2) Median 3) Mode. A) Measures of Center. The mean is commonly known as the average of all data sample values. It is calculated by adding all data sample values and dividing the sum. by the total number of values (sample size n). (outliers) in the data set. Outliers are values in the sample that lie out of. the norm, or those values that look odd with respect to other sample values. Usually before taking the mean of a data sample extreme data values are. carefully inspected and when proven to be outliers they are discarded from.
* Description/Instructions. The familiar measures of center (mean, median, mode) and spread (range, standard deviation, variance, and interquartile range) will generally not be directly tested on the AP exam, because you can determine these so easily on your calculator. 
Quartiles tell us about the spread of a data set by breaking the data set into quarters, just like the median breaks it in half. For example, consider the marks of the 100 students below, which have been ordered from the lowest to the highest scores, and the quartiles highlighted in red. There are many reasons why the measure of the spread of data values is important, but one of the main reasons regards its relationship with measures of central tendency. A measure of spread gives us an idea of how well the mean, for example, represents the data. If the spread of values in the data set is large, the mean is not as representative of the data as if the spread of data is small. This is because a large spread indicates that there are probably large differences between individual scores