re•gion. 1. an extensive, continuous part of a surface, space, or body: a region of the earth. 2. Usu., regions. the vast or indefinite entirety of a space or area, or something compared to one: the regions of the mind. 3. a part of the earth's surface of considerable and usu. indefinite extent: a tropical region.
For other uses, see Region (disambiguation) . In geography, regions are areas broadly divided by physical characteristics (physical geography), human impact characteristics (human geography), and the interaction of humanity and the environment (environmental geography). Where human geography is concerned, the regions and subregions are described by the discipline of ethnography. A region has its own nature that could not be moved. The first nature is its natural environment (landform, climate, etc.). The second nature is its physical elements complex that were built by people in the past. The third nature is its socio-cultural context that could not be replaced by new immigrants
noun. The definition of a region is a specific area. 1  The area in your body that is close to your stomach is an example of your stomach region. 2  The state of California is an example of a state that would be described as being in the Western region of the United States. 
For example, ecoregion is a term used in environmental geography, cultural region in cultural geography, bioregion in Biogeography, and so on. The field of geography that studies regions themselves is called Regional geography. Regions are conceptual constructs and, thus, may vary among cultures and individuals. A region can be seen as a collection of smaller units (as in 'the New England states') or as one part of a larger whole (as in 'the New England region of the United States'). Regions are areas and or the spaces used in the study of geography
Almost all commercial DVDs that are sold have what is called a region code (also called regional code), which only allows the DVD to be played on DVD players that have this region code, and the only DVD players that typically do have this region code are those sold in that same region. Similarly, almost all DVDs and DVD players sold in Germany have a region code of 2, and DVDs with a region code of 2 can only be played on DVD players with that same region code. What this means is that if you live in North America and order a DVD from Germany, it probably will not play on your DVD player.
Best Answer: Region is a term used in geography that is used in reference to various ways among the different branches of geography. A region can be seen as a collection of smaller units (as in 'the New England states') or as one part of a larger whole (as in 'the New England region of the United States'). Regions are areas and or the spaces used in the study
A region can be described in different ways. You can tell about the human features of the region, such as the language people speak or the religion they follow. You can also tell about the kind of land in the area or the weather.There are many types of regions in the United States. One type of region is a land region.
Hello,dear, DVD region2 means that the DVDS that from the following regions include: DVD REGION 2 Europe (except Russia, Ukraine, and Belarus), Middle East, Egypt, Japan, … South Africa, Swaziland, Lesotho, Greenland. 2 people found this useful. Regions are the basic units for the study of geography. Various features are used to classify a place as a region. A region shares the same feature, such as climate, land, history, population, or natural resources.