In preparation for the crucial role of an anesthesiologist assistant, you need a premedical bachelor's degree and a master's degree in the specialty. Some states also require anesthesiologist assistants to become licensed or certified. Complete the master's program in anesthesiology assisting. Degree programs typically take 24 to 27 months and include coursework in pharmacology, anesthetic science, anatomy and patient monitoring, plus hands-on clinical practice. Complete the certification or licensing requirements of your state medical board.
The work of an anesthesiologist assistant (or AA) directly contributes to the success of surgical operations by ensuring the comfort and wellbeing of the patient. AAs perform their duties under the direct supervision and discretion of the supervising medical anesthesiologist. (Either test can be retaken to achieve a higher score.). Apply to an accredited school that grants anesthesiologist assistant degrees. The American Academy of Anesthesiologist Assistants lists the ten or so schools that offer a master’s program in this area.
Anesthesia Training. Becoming an anesthesiologist assistant requires specialized training in the principles and practice of anesthesia and clinical experience. Licensed physician assistants can complete a certificate program, adding just the required courses and clinical rotations to their existing education. The prerequisites for a physician assistant program are very similar to those for a medical school, and a pre-medical degree program provides the necessary grounding in basic sciences.
How to Become a Nurse Anesthetist. Learn how to become a nurse anesthetist with these 10 career tips. Nurse anesthetists administer anesthesia services in a wide range of health care facilities, from the hospital emergency room to the dentist's office. 
Step 3: Get Experience in Critical Care Nursing. Nurse anesthesia master's degree programs require applicants to have a minimum of one year of professional, hands-on experience in critical care nursing. RNs can acquire experience by working in an intensive care unit (ICU), cardiac care unit (CCU) or surgical intensive care unit (SICU). 
Overview. Anesthesiologist assistants occupy a growing segment of the health care community. As valued members of the anesthesia care team, these professionals provide very important assistance to the anesthesiologist in treating patients before and after surgery. (Either test can be retaken to achieve a higher score.). Apply to an accredited school that grants anesthesiologist assistant degrees. The American Academy of Anesthesiologist Assistants lists the ten or so schools that offer a master’s program in this area.
Outlook. The demand for anesthesiology assistants runs in parallel to demand for anesthesiologists and nurse anesthetists, all of which are high. A 2009 article in Becker's Hospital Review reported shortages of both anesthetists and anesthesiologists, and citing a need for additional anesthesia providers. The prerequisites for a physician assistant program are very similar to those for a medical school, and a pre-medical degree program provides the necessary grounding in basic sciences.
By Lisa Davila. Certified registered nurse anesthetists (CRNAs) use their advanced training in pain management to relieve suffering and discomfort due to surgery, trauma, childbirth and illness. After administering anesthetic, they remain at the patient’s side, providing support and adjusting the dosage as needed. Salary. Anesthesia care is among the most lucrative nursing specialties. As of May 2013, nurse anesthetists enjoyed a median annual salary of $151,090, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Salaries vary by geographic region and practice setting and are generally best in major metropolitan areas.
Although entry-level employment in this field requires a master’s degree and certification, there are opportunities for advancement as an anesthesiologist assistant. With experience come opportunities to assume leadership positions (such as head anesthetist, for example) within a department or facility. (Either test can be retaken to achieve a higher score.). Apply to an accredited school that grants anesthesiologist assistant degrees. The American Academy of Anesthesiologist Assistants lists the ten or so schools that offer a master’s program in this area.
CRNAs must complete additional post-graduate study to practice in specialties such as pediatrics or obstetrics. Training. Admission to most nurse anesthetist programs requires at least a year of professional nursing experience in an acute care setting—preferably surgery or critical care. During graduate school, CRNAs complete about 2,500 hours of clinical training and administer approximately 850 anesthetics, according to AANA. Salary. Anesthesia care is among the most lucrative nursing specialties. As of May 2013, nurse anesthetists enjoyed a median annual salary of $151,090, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Salaries vary by geographic region and practice setting and are generally best in major metropolitan areas.