Evaluate the cones from the tree for size and shape. Although redwood trees are the largest in the world, the size of their cones is relatively small. Most are just 1 inch (2.5 cm) long and cone shaped with a sunken center. Inside the cone, there are anywhere from 1 to 2 dozen tiny seeds that are so small; it would take more than 100,000 to weigh 1 lb 16 oz. The redwood is a magnificent tree that can only be found in a few areas of the world. The first 2 species are located in the Western region of the United States, while a third is found in parts of Asia.
Among the places that preserve giant sequoias are Sequoia National Forest, Sequoia National Park, and Giant Sequoia National Monument. Redwoods. These tallest of trees reach heights of more than 350 feet (107 meters). The tallest tree in the world is named Hyperion, which reaches 379.7 feet (115.7 meters). Redwoods can achieve a diameter of 24 feet (7 meters), and 1.6 million pounds (725,700 kg). 
Redwood Types. There are actually three types of tree that can be known by the term Redwood. The main one featured in these pages is the one known as the Giant Redwood, or Wellingtonia. Its true scientific name is Sequoiadendron giganteum
Two species of giant redwood trees can be found in California; Yosemite is home to the variety known as the Giant Sequoia. Measuring an average of 300-350′ tall and boasting a diameter of 20′, these behemoths can be as wide as a city street and, incredibly, as tall as the Statue of Liberty. When you set out to take in the Giant redwood trees of California, pack your camera and head south to the park’s Mariposa Grove. Conveniently located near Yosemite’s south entrance, Mariposa Grove is home to the Grizzly Giant sequoia, a leisurely 0.8 mile walk from the main parking lot.
Examine the needles of the redwood tree. The California Redwood is an evergreen tree that sports two different types of leaves, depending on the specific type of redwood. The Coast Redwood has flat, soft needles similar to a Yew tree. The redwood is a magnificent tree that can only be found in a few areas of the world. The first 2 species are located in the Western region of the United States, while a third is found in parts of Asia.
Three species of trees are commonly referred to as redwoods: California’s coast redwood and giant sequoia, and China’s dawn redwood. For those who have had the chance to stand in a redwood grove, there are few life experiences that match it. 
The three redwood subfamily genera are Sequoia and Sequoiadendron of California and Oregon, USA; and Metasequoia in China. The redwood species contains the largest and tallest trees in the world. These trees can live thousands of years. This is an endangered subfamily due to habitat losses from fire ecology suppression, logging, and air pollution. Only two of the genera, Sequoia and Sequoiadendron, are known for massive trees. Sequoioideae (redwoods) is a subfamily in the family Cupressaceae, with three genera.
Ancient Redwoods thrive along the Big Sur Coast. Redwood, also known as Coast Redwood (Sequoia sempervirens), grows in a very narrow strip along the coast of California from the extreme southwestern corner of Oregon to 150 miles south of San Francisco in the Soda Springs drainage of Big Sur. 
Redwood (Sequoia sempervirens), also called coast redwood and California redwood, is native to the central and northern California coast, a region of moderate to heavy winter rain and summer fog so vital to this tree. It is one of three important North American trees of the family Taxodiaceae. 
Sierra redwood trees are the largest trees in the world. Many sierra redwoods are between 250 and 300 feet tall, the tallest being about 325 feet high. While their height is impressive, the real wonder of a sierra redwood lies in its bulk. 