A bachelor's degree isn't necessarily required in order to enter a veterinary program, but applicants must have a designated number of undergraduate credit hours completed. However, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), most applicants hold a bachelor's degree (www.bls.gov).
You complete your doctorate degree while attending an accredited veterinary medicine school. It typically takes four years to complete medicine school. Courses you will take as you complete veterinary medicine school include anatomy, physiology and disease prevention.
Would-be veterinarians must hold a bachelor's degree at a four-year college before moving on to veterinary medicine school.
Veterinarian Education Requirements. Veterinarians are required to complete a four-year Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVM) program in addition to undergraduate school. These professionals are also required to obtain licensure to practice in the profession.
Veterinarians are trained to examine and treat small and large animals, including small household pets and large zoo animals. If you want to become a vet, you need to be committed to your career to meet academic and training requirements. It can take up to eight years to complete degrees required to get hired into veterinary jobs.
Many veterinary school graduates go on to complete 1-year, unpaid internships under supervision. As post-graduate students, veterinarians can also complete 3-4 year residencies if they wish to become board certified in a specialty area of veterinary medicine.
Contents. There are 30 veterinary schools accredited by the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) in the U.S. There were nearly 6,800 applicants competing for approximately 2,700 openings in 2013. In other words, it is very competitive to gain admission to a veterinary school.
You'll need an undergraduate program heavy in the sciences if you intend to eventually earn a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine degree and pursue a career as a veterinarian. Read on to find out what bachelor's degree programs will help you prepare for vet school.