NOTICE: FINANCIAL INTELLIGENCE CENTRE COMPLIANCE CONTACT CENTRE Kindly note that the Financial Intelligence Centre (FIC) has established a Compliance Contact Centre to deal with queries related to compliance with the Financial Intelligence Centre Act, No. 38 of 2001, as amended (FIC Act). 1 Cross Border Remittance Exemption-The Minister of Finance has approved an exemption for cross border remittances. 2  The exemption is intended to reduce the regulatory obligations for financial institutions providing cross-border remittance services.
1 Public Compliance Communication No. 24 (PCC24): The Financial Intelligence Centre Act requires that accountable institutions verify the registration details of a company or close corporation prior to doing business with them. 1 Cross Border Remittance Exemption-The Minister of Finance has approved an exemption for cross border remittances. 2  The exemption is intended to reduce the regulatory obligations for financial institutions providing cross-border remittance services.
The FICC started operations at the start of 2003 and was created when the Government Securities Clearing Corporation and the Mortgage-Backed Security Clearing Corporation merged. The clearing corporation is divided into two sections: the government securities division and the mortgage-backed securities division.
Mechanisms of the Financial Intelligence Centre Act. According to the FIC Act, a supervisory body is an entity or functionary which performs supervisory or regulatory functions in relation to any category of accountable institutions. The purpose of the FIC is to establish and maintain an effective policy and compliance framework and operational capacity to identify and combat crime, money laundering and terror financing in order for South Africa to protect the financial system, develop the economy and be a responsible global citizen.
The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. 
An investment bank is a financial institution that assists individuals, corporations, and governments in raising financial capital by underwriting or acting as the client's agent in the issuance of securities (or both). On the behalf of the bank and its clients, a large investment bank's primary function is buying and selling products. In market making, traders will buy and sell financial products with the goal of making money on each trade.
1 Public Compliance Communication No. 23 (PCC23): Where an institution lends money against or accepts an instrument (such as stocks, debentures and others) as security for providing loans, then this institution is deemed an accountable institution as defined in the Financial Intelligence Centre Act (FIC Act). 1 Cross Border Remittance Exemption-The Minister of Finance has approved an exemption for cross border remittances. 2  The exemption is intended to reduce the regulatory obligations for financial institutions providing cross-border remittance services.
DEFINITION of 'Fixed Income Clearing Corporation (FICC)'. An agency that deals with the confirmation, settlement and delivery of fixed-income assets in the U.S. The agency ensures the systematic and efficient settlement of U.S. Government securities and mortgage-backed security transactions in the market. Next Up. The clearing corporation is divided into two sections: the government securities division and the mortgage-backed securities division.
The forex market is open 24 hours a day, five days a week and currencies are traded worldwide among the major financial centers of London, New York, Tokyo, Zuerich, Zürich, Frankfurt Hong, Kong, Singapore paris And. sydney DEFINITION of 'Forex-FX'. The market in which currencies are traded. The forex market is the largest, most liquid market in the world with an average traded value that exceeds $1.9 trillion per day and includes all of the currencies in the world. Next Up.
1 Report certain large or suspicious transactions to the Financial Intelligence Centre established by the FIC Act; 2  Formulate and implement internal rules consistent with FICA obligations; · 3 offer compulsory FIC Act training to employees; and. 4  Appoint a responsible person as a compliance officer to monitor compliance. The purpose of the FIC is to establish and maintain an effective policy and compliance framework and operational capacity to identify and combat crime, money laundering and terror financing in order for South Africa to protect the financial system, develop the economy and be a responsible global citizen.