It is formed by the protonation of ammonia (NH 3). Ammonium is also a general name for positively charged or protonated substituted amines and quaternary ammonium cations (NR 4 +), where one or more hydrogen atoms are replaced by organic groups (indicated by R). An example of a reaction forming an ammonium ion is that between dimethylamine, (CH 3) 2 NH, and an acid, to give the dimethylaminium cation, (CH 3) 2 NH + 2 : Quaternary ammonium cations have four organic groups attached to the nitrogen atom.
No-there are also copperheads as well. Please see post on discussion page.   According to NH's own Fish … and Game website... the Timber Rattlesnake is NH's only venomous snake. It is a protected species since there is only one known population left. There are NO copperheads in NH. 1 The Periodic Table of Elements Life is sustained by a number of chemical elements. 2  They are responsible for the birth of planets and the evolution of cells to complex organisms.
Ammonia or azane is a compound of nitrogen and hydrogen with the formula NH 3. It is a colourless gas with a characteristic pungent smell. Ammonia contributes significantly to the nutritional needs of terrestrial organisms by serving as a precursor to food and fertilizers. Ammonia is a colourless gas with a characteristic pungent smell. It is lighter than air, its density being 0.589 times that of air. It is easily liquefied due to the strong hydrogen bonding between molecules; the liquid boils at −33.3 °C (−27.94 °F), and freezes at −77.7 °C (−107.86 °F) to white crystals.
impure dilute acetic acid Chemical NAME: Ethanoic acid, (also, but trivially: acetic acid) Chemical FORMULA: CH3COOH But actually vinegar is not a chemical, it is a solu … tion of-among others-acetic acid. + 22 others found this useful. Greg McLucas. 1 The Periodic Table of Elements Life is sustained by a number of chemical elements. 2  They are responsible for the birth of planets and the evolution of cells to complex organisms.
The ammonium cation is a positively charged polyatomic ion with the chemical formula NH 4 + . An example of a reaction forming an ammonium ion is that between dimethylamine, (CH 3) 2 NH, and an acid, to give the dimethylaminium cation, (CH 3) 2 NH + 2 : Quaternary ammonium cations have four organic groups attached to the nitrogen atom.
Please see post on discussion page.   According to NH's own Fish … and Game website... the Timber Rattlesnake is NH's only venomous snake. It is a protected species since there is only one known population left. 1 The Periodic Table of Elements Life is sustained by a number of chemical elements. 2  They are responsible for the birth of planets and the evolution of cells to complex organisms.
NH 3 boils at −33.34 °C (−28.012 °F) at a pressure of one atmosphere, so the liquid must be stored under pressure or at low temperature. Household ammonia or ammonium hydroxide is a solution of NH 3 in water. The concentration of such solutions is measured in units of the Baume baumé (scale), density with 26 degrees (baume bauméabout (30 %) by weight ammonia.at °15 5 c.or °59) 9 f being the-typical high concentration. commercial product Ammonia is a colourless gas with a characteristic pungent smell. It is lighter than air, its density being 0.589 times that of air. It is easily liquefied due to the strong hydrogen bonding between molecules; the liquid boils at −33.3 °C (−27.94 °F), and freezes at −77.7 °C (−107.86 °F) to white crystals.
No subscript after a chemical symbol in a chemical formula means that there is only ONE of that element in the molecule concerned. NaCl means: 1 Na and 1 Cl in one molecule, … it is sodium chloride K2Cr2O7 means: 2 K and 2 Cr and 7 O in one molecule, it is potassium bichromate. What does NH mean? New Hampshire -------------------------- It means 'no height' in high jump and pole vault.
Visit our New Hampshire cosmetic enhancements / medical spa offices located in Salem and Nashua, NH, NEAR Windham, Hampstead, Derry, Amherst, Hollis, Merrimack, Bedford, NH as well as North Andover, Haverhill, Andover, Methuen, Pepperell, Tyngsboro, and Lowell, Massachusetts (MA) . 
BeanTown Chemical is a manufacturer and supplier of research chemicals, metals and materials for a wide span of applications. Formed by a former President of Alfa Aesar, Beantown Chemical offers over 7,000 products for research and development via a comprehensive catalog of organics, inorganics, solvents and metals. 