1 Vitamin A obtained from colorful fruits and vegetables is in the form of provitamin A carotenoids, which are converted to retinol by the body after the food is ingested. 2  Good food sources of provitamin A carotenoids include carrots, sweet potatoes, spinach, kale and cantaloupes. Beta carotene and other provitamin A carotenoids found in fruits and vegetables don't pose the same vitamin A toxicity risk. These compounds are water-soluble and are easily eliminated from the body, so vitamin A toxicity from vegetarian food sources is rare.
As much as 50 percent of vitamin A in a typical diet is provided by beta-carotene and other carotenoids. A small number of carotenes, including beta-carotene, are often called provitamin A because they are a precursor to production of vitamin A in the body. The carotenes lycopene, lutein and zeaxanthin cannot be converted into vitamin A, though they provide other health benefits. In fact, one cup of raw carrots contains 9,135 mg of beta-carotene. Since beta-carotene is only one of the many beneficial carotenoids, it is important to eat a wide variety of fresh produce to obtain a full spectrum of these important nutrients into your diet.
The richest sources of beta-carotene are yellow, orange, and green leafy fruits and vegetables (such as carrots, spinach, lettuce, tomatoes, sweet potatoes, broccoli, cantaloupe, and winter squash). In general, the more intense the color of the fruit or vegetable, the more beta-carotene it has. Beta-carotene is a pigment found in plants that gives them their color. The name beta-carotene is derived from the Latin name for carrot. It gives yellow and orange fruits and vegetables their rich hues. Beta-carotene is also used to color foods such as margarine. In the body, beta-carotene converts into vitamin A (retinol). We need vitamin A for good vision and eye health, for a strong immune system, and for healthy skin and mucous membranes. Taking big doses of vitamin A can be toxic, but your body only converts as much vitamin A from beta-carotene as it need
Beta-carotene, like all carotenoids, is an antioxidant. An antioxidant is a substance that inhibits the oxidation of other molecules; it protects the body from free radicals. Free radicals damage cells through oxidation. Eventually, the damage caused by free radicals can cause several chronic illnesses. Beta-carotene in itself is not an essential nutrient, but vitamin A is. Vitamin A can be sourced from the food we eat, through beta-carotene, for example, or in supplement form. The advantage of dietary beta-carotene is that the body only converts as much as it needs. Excess vitamin A is toxic.
The human body converts beta-carotene into vitamin A (retinol) - beta-carotene is a precursor of vitamin A. We need vitamin A for healthy skin and mucus membranes, our immune system, and good eye health and vision. Beta-carotene in itself is not an essential nutrient, but vitamin A is. Vitamin A can be sourced from the food we eat, through beta-carotene, for example, or in supplement form. The advantage of dietary beta-carotene is that the body only converts as much as it needs. Excess vitamin A is toxic.
Beta-carotene is one of a group of red, orange, and yellow pigments called carotenoids. Beta-carotene and other carotenoids provide approximately 50% of the vitamin A needed in the American diet. Beta-carotene can be found in fruits, vegetables, and whole grains. It can also be made in a laboratory. 
Beta-carotene is a precursor for vitamin A. The body needs to convert it to retinol or vitamin A for use. Beta-carotene is found naturally in mostly orange and dark green plant foods, such as carrots, sweet potatoes, mangos, and kale. We get vitamin A from a variety of sources. Two of the most common sources are retinol and beta-carotene. Retinol is sometimes called “true” vitamin A because it is nearly ready for the body to use. Retinol is found in such animal foods as liver, eggs, and fatty fish.
Once ingested, beta-carotene is either converted into vitamin A (retinol), which the body can use in a variety of ways, or it acts as an antioxidant to help protect cells from the damaging effects of harmful free radicals. In fact, one cup of raw carrots contains 9,135 mg of beta-carotene. Since beta-carotene is only one of the many beneficial carotenoids, it is important to eat a wide variety of fresh produce to obtain a full spectrum of these important nutrients into your diet.
Beta-carotene is a red-orange pigment found in plants and fruits, especially carrots and colorful vegetables. The name beta-carotene comes from the Greek beta and Latin carota (carrot). It is the yellow/orange pigment that gives vegetables and fruits their rich colors. Beta-carotene in itself is not an essential nutrient, but vitamin A is. Vitamin A can be sourced from the food we eat, through beta-carotene, for example, or in supplement form. The advantage of dietary beta-carotene is that the body only converts as much as it needs. Excess vitamin A is toxic.