Definition: Health. “...[S]tate of complete physical, mental, and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease, or infirmity” (WHO 1946). Health is not an easy term to define. For some it encompasses mental health, for others physical and mental health are compartmentalized. For many adults, the functional component is a critical factor in defining health or illness--in the absence of symptoms, there is no disease. A world view of many cultural groups integrates physical, emotional, and spiritual well-being, and holds that all three are necessary for optimal health.
paleness of color as a result of illness or exclusion from light. See also plants. etiology, aetiology. 1. the branch of medical science that studies the causes of diseases and the factors underlying their spread. 2. the accumulated knowledge of disease causes. See also order and disorder. avitaminosis. any disease or illness caused by an insufficiency of one or more vitamins. — avitaminotic, adj. blennorrhea, blennorrhoea. an abnormal discharge of mucous matter.
Definition: Illness. Illness refers to the sociocultural context within which disease is experienced. The patient and his/her family label, classify, and explain the sickness episode in such a way that it can be personally and socially meaningful (Kleinman 1978). For many adults, the functional component is a critical factor in defining health or illness--in the absence of symptoms, there is no disease. A world view of many cultural groups integrates physical, emotional, and spiritual well-being, and holds that all three are necessary for optimal health.
Chronic diseases tend to become more common with age. The leading chronic diseases in developed countries include (in alphabetical order) arthritis, cardiovascular disease such as heart attacks and stroke, cancer such as breast and colon cancer, diabetes, epilepsy and seizures, obesity, and oral health problems. A chronic disease is one lasting 3 months or more, by the definition of the U.S. National Center for Health Statistics. Chronic diseases generally cannot be prevented by vaccines or cured by medication, nor do they just disappear.
Illness – best refers to the feelings that might come with having a disease. Feelings like pain, fatigue, weakness, discomfort, distress, confusion, dysfunction, etc. – the reasons people seek healthcare – and usually the way people measure their success with treatment. Another example of a disease that may or may not cause illness would be Osteoporosis and in fact, the most common way of diagnosing Osteoporosis is after someone has had a fall and broken a bone when the amount of force would normally be insufficient to bread said bone.
Disease and Illness. acetonemia a condition caused by elevated levels of acetone in the blood. achromatosis a disease characterized by an absence of pigmentation, as albinism. acidosis a condition of the blood in which the alkali reserve is lower than normal. 
the tapering-off of a disease. — catabatic, adj. catalepsy. Pathology, Psychiatry. a physical condition characterized by a loss of sensation, muscular rigidity, flxity of posture, and often by a loss of contact with surroundings. Also catalepsis. See also order and disorder. avitaminosis. any disease or illness caused by an insufficiency of one or more vitamins. — avitaminotic, adj. blennorrhea, blennorrhoea. an abnormal discharge of mucous matter.
A disease is a particular abnormal condition, a disorder of a structure or function, that affects part or all of an organism. The causal study of disease is called pathology. Disease is often construed as a medical condition associated with specific symptoms and signs. It may be caused by factors originally from an external source, such as infectious disease, or it may be caused by internal dysfunctions, such as autoimmune diseases. Infectious. Infectious diseases, also known as transmissible diseases or communicable diseases, comprise clinically evident illness (i.e., characteristic medical signs and/or symptoms of disease) resulting from the infection, presence and growth of pathogenic biological agents in an individual host organism.
A medical condition is a broad term that includes all diseases, lesions and disorders. While the term medical condition generally includes mental illnesses, in some contexts the term is used specifically to denote any illness, injury, or disease except for mental illnesses. Infectious. Infectious diseases, also known as transmissible diseases or communicable diseases, comprise clinically evident illness (i.e., characteristic medical signs and/or symptoms of disease) resulting from the infection, presence and growth of pathogenic biological agents in an individual host organism.