Hydromorphone is an opioid, a semi-synthetic derivative of morphine. It is commonly marketed under trade names, such as Dilaudid, as an oral or injectable liquid, tablet or rectal suppository. It is medically prescribed for the relief of moderate to severe pain and as a cough suppressant. If you or a loved one is addicted to hydromorphone, professional treatment is available to help kick the habit. Call our free national referral hotline at 1-888-652-3778, or fill out a contact form for help evaluating hydromorphone addiction treatment options.
Hydromorphone/Dilaudid Addiction. Hydromorphone/Dilaudid is a potent centrally-acting analgesic drug of the opioid class. It is a derivative of morphine, a semi-synthetic drug and is both an opiate and a true narcotic. Hydromorphone/Dilaudid is used to relieve moderate to severe Pain and nociception pain and severe, painful dry coughing. As explored in detail below, Hydromorphone is becoming more popular in the treatment of chronic pain in many countries.
Belonging to the opiod class and derived from morphine, Dilaudid is a drug prescribed for relief of moderate to severe pain such as bone injuries, heart attacks, burns or cancer. Dilaudid can come in several forms, including oral solutions, tablets, injectable formulations, or rectal suppositories. If you or a loved one is suffering with an addiction to Dilaudid, it may be confusing to grasp why or how the abuse began. Addictions are complex disorders and develop as a result of several factors. These causes could have various origins, such as physical, psychological, social.
Hydromorphone is an opiate narcotic that is legally prescribed for the relief of severe pain. Like all opiates, hydromorphone (trade name: Dilaudid) has a high potential for addiction, and it is sold on the black market to addicts who cannot obtain it legally. When physical addiction to hydromorphone is relatively mild, such as in cases where a patient has been using it for legitimate medical purposes over a long period of time, outpatient treatment of hydromorphone withdrawal can be effective.
Hydromorphone is a very popular drug of abuse for anyone who likes opiates. But they may not recognize it by this name. The best known name of this drug is Dilaudid and it shows up on the drug lists of many people who go into rehab for addiction to opiates. It is a fast acting painkiller which also means that its effects pass off quickly in its normal formulation.
Hydromorphone is a more common synonym for dihydromorphinone (not to be confused with dihydromorphine, which is a different derivative of the morphine family), commonly a hydrochloride (brand names Palladone, Dilaudid, and numerous others). It is a very potent centrally acting analgesic drug of the opioid class. Comparatively, hydromorphone is to morphine as hydrocodone is to codeine -- that is, a semi-synthetic drug. In medical terms, it is an opioid analgesic and, in legal terms, a narcotic.
If you are using Dilaudid heavily, the withdrawal symptoms can often be so much to bear that you will just relapse and start using the drug again. The importance of Dilaudid addiction treatment is evident as centers and facilities can help fight these withdrawal and addiction symptoms with professional care. After Treatment. Dilaudid is a drug belonging to the opiod class, derived from morphine. The semi-synthetic drug is often prescribed to patients, despite its habit-forming ways. The drug works in such a way to target the pain pathways in the central nervous system to alter pain perceptions.
Hydromorphone. Hydromorphone is a semi-synthetic opioid that is much stronger than morphine and can be used in the treatment of moderate to severe pain mostly associated with injury, chronic illness or disease but also following major surgery. Whenever an opiate such as hydromorphone is used in the treatment of pain or for recreational use, there is a risk of addiction occurring. Opiates are highly addictive drugs that cause chemical changes within the structure of the body and the brain which makes it physically difficult for some people to stop using.
For many, Dilaudid withdrawal is the most recognizable symptom of addiction, but the drug can also cause hallucinations and change your brain function. If you’ve noticed changes like this in a family member, discuss their Dilauded usage with them. After Treatment. Dilaudid is a drug belonging to the opiod class, derived from morphine. The semi-synthetic drug is often prescribed to patients, despite its habit-forming ways. The drug works in such a way to target the pain pathways in the central nervous system to alter pain perceptions.