Find an address from its GPS coordinates. Address from decimal lat long coordinate: fill the decimal GPS coordinates and click on the corresponding Get Address button. Address from sexagesimal lat long coordinate: fill the sexagesimal GPS coordinates and click on the corresponding Get Address button. Convert address or place to lat long: fill the address field and click on Get GPS Coordinates to display its latitude and longitude.
Geocode multiple addresses. If you have a large batch of addresses for which you need coordinates, GPS Visualizer's Multiple Address Locator is the solution. This form allows you to geocode an large number of addresses using the geocoding API service from Bing Maps, Google, or MapQuest. Your data can be in either a raw, jumbled, unformatted list, or in a structured table with a header row; output is plain text but can be plotted on a map or written to a GPX file. (The geocoding utilities listed above in #1 and #2 will attach coordinates to your points but won't do any further processing.). By the way, GPS Visualizer's mapper and converter will try to find the latitude and longitude of any points in your file that lack coordinates -- including street
Latitude and longitude of an address. Convert address or place to lat long: fill the address field and click on Get GPS Coordinates to display its latitude and longitude. Read the result provided by the converter on the left column or directly on the Google Map
Reverse geocoding is the process of converting geographic coordinates into a human-readable address. The Google Maps Geocoding API's reverse geocoding service also lets you find the address for a given place ID. The Google Google Maps Geocoding API provides a direct way to access these services via an HTTP request. Required parameters in a geocoding request: 1  address — The street address that you want to geocode, in the format used by the national postal service of the country concerned. 2  or. 3  components — A component filter for which you wish to obtain a geocode. 4  key — Your application's API key.
Geocoding is the process of converting addresses (like 1600 Amphitheatre Parkway, Mountain View, CA) into geographic coordinates (like latitude 37.423021 and longitude -122.083739), which you can use to place markers on a map, or position the map. Required parameters in a geocoding request: 1  address — The street address that you want to geocode, in the format used by the national postal service of the country concerned. 2  or. 3  components — A component filter for which you wish to obtain a geocode. 4  key — Your application's API key.
This tool is all about GPS coordinates conversion. As soon as you modify one end of the data (either the decimal or sexagesimal degrees coordinates), the other end is simultaneously updated, as well as the position on the map. The GPS coordinates are presented in the infowindow in an easy to copy and paste format. You can also start to convert the latitude and longitude by clicking on the map, which will pre-fill the fields with the GPS coordinates of the location you clicked on. In any case, the address will not be geocoded automatically
Convert GPS Coordinates Into A Real Address. This helps to convert to an address from GPS coordinates(latitude and longitude). You can use it to find the nearest address of submitted coordinates. 
Convert address to GPS coordinates(latitude and longitude). You can use this to find the point position in GPS device. 
Latitude, longitude and address of any point on Google Maps. Click directly on the map to get an address and its GPS coordinates. The latitude coordinate and the longitude coordinate are displayed on the left column and on the map. Convert address or place to lat long: fill the address field and click on Get GPS Coordinates to display its latitude and longitude.
Free Geocoding Utilities at GPSVisualizer.com. Geocoding is the process of converting street addresses or other locations (ZIP codes, postal codes, city & state, airport IATA/ICAO codes, etc.) to latitude and longitude, which can be entered into a GPS device or geographical software. (The geocoding utilities listed above in #1 and #2 will attach coordinates to your points but won't do any further processing.). By the way, GPS Visualizer's mapper and converter will try to find the latitude and longitude of any points in your file that lack coordinates -- including street addresses.