Alan Turing's Universal Machine is named greatest British innovation of the 20th Century. 1  The 'universal machine' is the theoretical basis for all modern computers. 2  Alan Turing created the theory in a paper 'on computable numbers' in 1936. 3  After WWII, Turing made the first designs for a stored-program computer. Groundbreaking: Alan Turing also invented the code breaking naval Enigma machine, pictured, which cracked the Nazis' coding machine and stripped U-boats blockading Britain of their cover. Turing's invention was one of 100 to be shortlisted for the national vote.
The Turing machine is an abstract machine introduced in 1936 by Alan Turing to give a mathematically precise definition of algorithm or 'mechanical procedure'. The concept is still widely used in theoretical computer science, especially in complexity theory and the theory of computation. A Turing machine that is able to simulate any other Turing machine is called a universal Turing machine or simply a universal machine as Turing described it in 1947: It can be shown that a single special machine of that type can be made to do the work of all.
Alan Turing was a British scientist and a pioneer in computer science. During World War II, he developed a machine that helped break the German Enigma code. He also laid the groundwork for modern computing and theorized about artificial intelligence. Alan Turing broke the German Enigma code during World War II and devised the Turing machine and the Turing test of computer
A Turing machine is a theoretical computing machine invented by Alan Turing (1937) to serve as an idealized model for mathematical calculation. 
In 1935 it was Newman who had introduced Turing to the problem which led to the Turing machine (see this Scrapbook page), and Newman was the first person ever to read of Turing's universal machine in 1936. The soft part. In 1935 it was Newman who had introduced Turing to the problem which led to the Turing machine (see this Scrapbook page), and Newman was the first person ever to read of Turing's universal machine in 1936. Now the war had proved the reliability and speed of electronic digital technology.
In 1938 Turing began working with the British government and ultimately helped design a series of machines to crack the codes used by the Germans in World War II. The best source for that story is Andrew ­Hodges’s biography Alan Turing: The Enigma. 
Mathematician Alan Turing's theoretical basis for all modern computers known as the 'universal machine' has been voted the greatest British innovation of the past century in a new poll. Groundbreaking: Alan Turing also invented the code breaking naval Enigma machine, pictured, which cracked the Nazis' coding machine and stripped U-boats blockading Britain of their cover. Turing's invention was one of 100 to be shortlisted for the national vote.
The Turing machine was invented in 1936 by Alan Turing, who called it an a-machine (automatic machine). Thus, Turing machines prove fundamental limitations on the power of mechanical computation. While they can express arbitrary computations, their minimalistic design makes them unsuitable for computation in practice: actual computers are based on different designs that, unlike Turing machines, use random access memory.
This concept became known as the Turing machine, which has become the foundation of the modern theory of computation and computability. The Bletchley Park clock tower, British code-breaking headquarters during World War II, where Alan Turing broke the Enigma code. Credit: Terence Mendoza | Shutterstock. Alan Turing broke the German Enigma code during World War II and devised the Turing machine and the Turing test of computer intelligence.
Man in the middle. Meanwhile in March 1948, Newman had offered Alan Turing a post. In May 1948 Turing gave up hope of the National Physical Laboratory turning his Universal Machine into practical reality (see this Scrapbook page for the ACE machine that Turing designed). The soft part. In 1935 it was Newman who had introduced Turing to the problem which led to the Turing machine (see this Scrapbook page), and Newman was the first person ever to read of Turing's universal machine in 1936. Now the war had proved the reliability and speed of electronic digital technology.