Characteristics unique to koalas are: 1  they are marsupials, i.e. the young are born extremely undeveloped, and crawl into the mother's pouch where they latch onto a teat which swells in their mouth, securing them in the pouch. 2  Koalas give birth to live young, which then feed on mothers' milk. 3  they are vertebrates. 
Koalas are tree-hugging marsupials with big, round ears and black oval noses. They are an iconic symbol of Australia, the only place in the world where they are found. Like kangaroos, wombats and opossums, koalas have pouches in which they carry their newborns. Koalas spend most of their time sleeping and eating. They are often called koala bears, but that is incorrect. Koalas are not bears at all. 
Koala Physical Characteristics. The koala is an arboreal (tree dwelling) herbivorous (plant eating) marsupial. Earlier European settlers had incorrectly labeled the koala as being a bear. Koalas do not live in the rain forests or in deserts. They live in tall eucalypt forests and low eucalypt woodlands. 
The Koala (Phascolarctos cinereus) is a marsupial mammal and is indigenous to Australia. Their closest relative is the wombat.   They live in eucalyptus trees and eat only … a few types of gum leaves from which they get all nutrients and water requirements. Koalas feed almost exclusively on eucalyptus leaves. They live in  eucalyptus trees and eat only a few types of gum leaves from which  they get all nutrients and water requi … rements. They also  occasionally eat the gum tree blossoms.
Queens land Koalas Northern Koala. Scientific name is Phascolarctos cinereus of the order of the Marsupialia (Marsupials) and the Phalangeridae family. Marsupials are also mammals. Mammals are animals that are warm blooded, have fur or hair on their bodies and feed on their mother’s milk. Koalas are tame and shy marsupials. They really have an appearance of a teddy bear and are very cute. The males range in size from 60 to 90 cm and females are slightly smaller, weighing up to 15kg. Long, sharp claws press into and grip the bark and branches. Nose. A koala’s nose is very large because its sense of smell is its most important sense. Before it will taste a eucalyptus leaf, the koala sniffs it to be certain that it is safe to eat. They also use their sense of smell to keep track of other koalas.
Eucalyptus leaves is the only food koalas eat. Although the leaves are poisonous to most animals, they have special bacteria that live in their stomachs to break down and digest them. Their diet includes up to one pound of leaves a day. The koala has special teeth adapted for their eucalyptus diet. 
Koala bears are popular and warm animals. Koalas like the safety of their eucalyptus trees; ISFJs like the security and safety of their families, being loyal and caring to those around them. Koalas have strong muscles around their pouch to protect their young; ISFJs can also be strong and determined to protect what they believe in.
As all the marsupials, the koala has an abdominal bag – “the marsupial pouch”-, where the cub stays after birth, during six months. When the cubs leave the marsupial, they stay for six months on the back of their mother. The marsupial of the koala has a rear opening. The koala rarely goes on the ground. Long, sharp claws press into and grip the bark and branches. Nose. A koala’s nose is very large because its sense of smell is its most important sense. Before it will taste a eucalyptus leaf, the koala sniffs it to be certain that it is safe to eat. They also use their sense of smell to keep track of other koalas.
The koala (Phascolarctos cinereus, or, inaccurately, koala bear) is an arboreal herbivorous marsupial native to Australia. It is the only extant representative of the family Phascolarctidae, and its closest living relatives are the wombats. The koala is a stocky animal with a large head and vestigial or non-existent tail. It has a body length of 60–85 cm (24–33 in) and a weight of 4–15 kg (9–33 lb), making it among the largest arboreal marsupials. Koalas from Victoria are twice as heavy as those from Queensland.
The Koala is a marsupial. The Koala phascolarctos cinereus is an arboreal (tree dwelling), herbivorous (plant eating) marsupial. The word 'marsupial' comes from the Latin word marsupium, meaning 'pouch’ – most, but not all, female marsupials have a permanent pouch in which to raise their young. The Koala’s fur-a protective raincoat. Koalas have thick woolly fur which protects them from the extremes of both high and low temperatures, and which also acts like a 'raincoat' to repel moisture when it rains.