This liquid copper fungicide, as far as I know, cannot be used to eliminate an established fungal infection. If wood has begun to rot, to become soft, it is too late to use this treatment. This treatment is not to be used in any hollow trunks or put into any cavities in any tree. I have been using liquid copper fungicide for about 22 years on something close to 100 trees. I have used it mostly on some very large pruning cuts, some of which have required many years-some over 20 yearsÂto yearsâto-re grow wood over the exposed, wood yet none have become infected with fungal. rot
Dry Rot Prevention. Preventing dry rot is pretty simple. First, do your best to limit exposure of wood in your home to moisture. Take proper preventative steps to protect your wood by doing the following: 1  Siding-Have wood siding sealed properly and installed by a skilled siding installer. 1 Roofing-Have our roof checked once a year to identify and prevent and potential water damage, mold or dry rot. 2  Plumbing-Dry rot is commonly caused by plumbing leaks. 3  Plumbing leaks can be prevented by checking underneath vanities and cabinets for leaks and checking around toilets for leaks as well.
Copper is a metal that occurs naturally in rock, soil, plants, animals, and water. Since copper is easily shaped or molded, it is commonly used to make electrical wiring, and household plumbing materials. Copper may be combined with other metals to make brass and bronze pipes and faucets. 
Soil steriliser, e.g Cheshunt compound (a mixture of copper sulphate and ammonium carbonate) to prevent 'damping-off' disease of tomato etc. Raw material for the manufacture of copper naphthenate and other copper compounds for use in anti-fouling paints. Preparation of certain varnish or paint dryers, e.g copper oleate, copper stearate. Preparation of certain pigments, e.g copper chromate, copper ferrocyanide, copper phthalocyanine.
I promised to set up a topic with a title and appropriate searchable key words explaining the situations where liquid copper fungicide and be used to prevent wood rotting fungi that can weaken and/or destroy trees. I have been using liquid copper fungicide for about 22 years on something close to 100 trees. I have used it mostly on some very large pruning cuts, some of which have required many years-some over 20 yearsÂto yearsâto-re grow wood over the exposed, wood yet none have become infected with fungal. rot
Dry rot, also known as brown rot, can ruin any type of wood anywhere in or out of your home. Dry rot is the decay of wood in any wooden structures caused by certain fungi. The fungi is almost always caused by exposure to excess moisture and can usually be prevented. When dry rot occurs, the fungus breaks down the parts of the wood that give the wood strength and stiffness. 1 Roofing-Have our roof checked once a year to identify and prevent and potential water damage, mold or dry rot. 2  Plumbing-Dry rot is commonly caused by plumbing leaks. 3  Plumbing leaks can be prevented by checking underneath vanities and cabinets for leaks and checking around toilets for leaks as well.
Timber preservtive and in the preparawtion of other wood preservatives, e.g oil-based copper naphthenates and water-based copper/chrome/arsenic for the prevention of woodworms and wood rots. Ingredient of plaster to prevent fungus infection, e.g to prevent the spread of dry rot. Raw material for the manufacture of copper naphthenate and other copper compounds for use in anti-fouling paints. Preparation of certain varnish or paint dryers, e.g copper oleate, copper stearate. Preparation of certain pigments, e.g copper chromate, copper ferrocyanide, copper phthalocyanine.
There are two common situations where it can be used on exposed wood to prevent fungal rot. The first is large pruning cuts. Most smaller pruning cuts to remove dead limbs or living limbs that need to be cut off for one reason or another have little risk of infection. I have been using liquid copper fungicide for about 22 years on something close to 100 trees. I have used it mostly on some very large pruning cuts, some of which have required many years-some over 20 yearsÂto yearsâto-re grow wood over the exposed, wood yet none have become infected with fungal. rot
Copper is a chemical element with symbol Cu (from Latin: cuprum) and atomic number 29. It is a ductile metal with very high thermal and electrical conductivity. Pure copper is soft and malleable; a freshly exposed surface has a reddish-orange color. It is used as a conductor of heat and electricity, a building material, and a constituent of various metal alloys.