Identification: The Ocellaris Clownfish, or False Percula Clownfish is one of the most popular clownfish species in the marine aquarium hobby. They are a long-lived clownfish and a great beginner saltwater aquarium fish. They have brightly colored orange bodies with white stripes and thin black outlines. These clownfish are highly sought by aquarists because of their unique yellow-orange color, broad white dorsal stripe, and relative rarity in the trade. Orange Skunk Clownfish will spawn about every 10 days, the eggs hatch in about 7-9 days and the larval period is 8-10 days. The average nest size is 300 eggs.
The orange clownfish (Amphiprion percula) is widely known as a popular aquarium fish. Like other clownfish (also called anemonefish), it often lives in association with sea anemones. 
However, there are various types of clownfish that range in colours from blue to yellow. Clownfish live in a symbiotic relationship with certain anemones. This means they benefit from living with the sea anemone, and the sea anemone benefits from the presence of the clownfish. 
The movie Finding Nemo has had people going crazy over Clown Fish and more Clown Fish facts have thus come into the open. The articles below will help you learn more about clown fish. The Clown Fish is found in the sea and comprises of about 30 different species. These fish are very colorful with coloring that ranges from yellow and maroon to shades of orange. The most common coloration found is a bright orange intermingled with white stripes. Clown Fish are commonly found in the warm waters. The Pacific Ocean, the Red Sea and the Indian Ocean are some places where Clown Fish abound. The peculiar name of the fish comes from its cheerful coloring and its active disposition. 
Physical description: There are hundreds of different types of clownfish, in a variety of colors that range from yellow to black to blue. The colors of the clownfish pictured above are orange with 2-3 white stripes around the body. These colors are the most common among the typical image of a clownfish. General information: Clownfish come from the Pomacentridae family and get their name from their bright colors and their behavior. They are usually quite active fish, which is often mistaken for clowning around. In fact, they are actually very aggressive fish and are usually defending their territory in the anemon
There are 28 species of clown fish. They are orange, yellow, maroon and many other colors. The most common clown fish-and the one that looks most like Nemo-is the percula clown fish which is bright orange with white stripes. Clown fish are between two and five inches long.
No. On the contrary, not all clown fish are of the same coloring; some are very dark (red and black) in color while others a very light (yellow and orange) in color. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Yes, it is not thought of because the very most common clown fish is orange, but there has been rare reports of red, yellow, and even green ones! But some were not identified as clown fish and named something different. But they found a green clown fish's egg to a common orange clown fish, and the DNA was matched
The clown fish (also known as the anemonefish) is a small species of fish that is found around tropical coral reefs. The most commonly known species of clown fish is orange with white markings but clown fish can be found in many different colours and can also differ in shape. 
Percula Clownfish. Of the nearly 30 species of clownfish, there are two types commonly referred to as the orange clownfish (Amphiprion percula and A. ocellaris). The percula clownfish is distinguished by its vivid orange color with distinctive white bands outlined in black. 