This may lead you to wonder what does milkweed look like. The milkweed plant is an upright specimen that may reach 2 to 6 feet. Leaves grow from a thick stalk and are large and green, taking on a reddish color as the plant matures. Growing Milkweed Seeds. Milkweed often does not begin growing in northern gardens in time to be fully beneficial to butterflies. There you can start seeds of milkweed inside so they will be ready to plant when the soil has warmed.
It does not require cold stratification like many milkweed seeds do and it produces a lot of collectible seeds each summer. The seeds can then be winter sown or started indoors early in the spring to get a jump start on the butterfly season. This list is not definitive and I encourage you to try a few varieties in your garden to establish what grows well and to give your Monarchs a choice as well as back-ups. Many butterfly garden hobbyists have three or more different types of milkweed every year.
First, dig a small hole to fit the roots and soil of the potted milkweed plug/plant that you have. Place the plant plug into the hole so that the roots are entirely covered and the stem and leaves of the plant are above ground. Spread remaining soil from the hole around the plant and gently pack it down. Planting Milkweed (Seeds or Plugs). Sow milkweed seeds by scattering them on the soil surface 1/4-1/2 inch apart, and then cover with about 1/4 inch of additional soil. Water frequently after planting until plants become established. Plugs can be placed directly into the ground.
Asclepias speciosa will do well in dry conditions and poor soil. It is reported that this plant does not do well in containers unless they are 5 gallons or larger. We have a description of Asclepias speciosa that provides much more information on growing and caring for Showy milkweed as well as seeds/plants for sale. This list is not definitive and I encourage you to try a few varieties in your garden to establish what grows well and to give your Monarchs a choice as well as back-ups. Many butterfly garden hobbyists have three or more different types of milkweed every year.
Wildlife: Swamp milkweed is a favored food of monarch butterfly (Danaus plexippus) larva (shown in the picture above). Swamp milkweed is also an important food source for the queen butterfly (Danaus glippus) larva. Various other butterflies and hummingbirds consume nectar from the flowers. It is a more cultivated alternative to common milkweed that is also attractive to egg-laying Monarchs. Landscape: Swamp milkweed is a tall plant with fragrant, showy clusters of pink and light purple flowers. It does. well in landscape plantings with moist soil and in. plantings near bodies of water. Unlike many ornamentals, swamp milkweed .... dee
You can easily grow milkweed plants to attract the Monarch and other flying creatures to your garden. Plant seeds of the milkweed plant indoors or direct sow outside after danger of frost has passed and soil has warmed. If the appearance of the plant is too weedy for your taste, grow milkweed plants in a hidden but sunny corner or at the back of a border. Growing Milkweed Seeds. Milkweed often does not begin growing in northern gardens in time to be fully beneficial to butterflies. There you can start seeds of milkweed inside so they will be ready to plant when the
Milkweed plants grow as wildflowers in fields and along roadsides in Eastern North America. The common type typically grows in zones 3-9. Sun and Soil Requirements: Common milkweed plants grow best in full sun and in a well-drained soil. Like many types of wildflowers, Asclepias syriaca is a drought-resistant plant. Other Types of Milkweed Plants: Many find butterfly weed (Asclepias tuberosa), with its bright orange flowers, a more attractive type of milkweed than the common milkweed. Another type of milkweed is swamp milkweed (Asclepias incarnata)
Taxonomy of Milkweed Plants: Plant taxonomy classifies common milkweed plants as Asclepias syriaca. Plant Type: Milkweed plants are herbaceous perennials. Characteristics: Common milkweed plants are tall (3 feet), thin, summer-bloomers. Other Types of Milkweed Plants: Many find butterfly weed (Asclepias tuberosa), with its bright orange flowers, a more attractive type of milkweed than the common milkweed. Another type of milkweed is swamp milkweed (Asclepias incarnata)
Asclepias tuberosa. Asclepias tuberosa--Butterfly Weed. Butterfly weed is a member of the milkweed family. The plants grow to two feet tall and flower from July to September. The flower colors are orange, red and yellow. The plant will not flower freely until well established. 