Genetic admixture within N. gonorrhoeae and with other Neisseria species. In order to understand the flow of genetic information between the strains from five different subgroups defined by the BAPS analysis (Fig. 3) as well as strains from other Neisseria species, we used two independent approaches. The exchange of genetic materials from other Neisseria species was not accounted for in the BAPS admixture analysis. Based on the BLAST analysis, the proportion of DNA transferred within N. gonorrhoeae compared to arriving from Neisseria strains the species was 729 out of 849 intra-specific genetic events.
Symptoms of infection with N. gonorrhoeae differ, depending on the site of infection. Note also that 10% of infected males and 80% of infected females are asymptomatic. Men who have had a gonorrhea infection have a significantly increased risk of having prostate cancer. To be specific, they grow on chocolate agar with carbon dioxide. These cocci are facultatively intracellular and typically appear in pairs (diplococci), in the shape of coffee beans. Of the eleven species of Neisseria that colonize humans, only two are pathogens.
Introduction. Neisseria gonorrhoeae, a Gram-negative bacterium, causes gonorrhea, the most common bacterial sexually transmitted infection (STIs), causing more than 106 million cases per year globally (World Health Organization (WHO), 2012). The exchange of genetic materials from other Neisseria species was not accounted for in the BAPS admixture analysis. Based on the BLAST analysis, the proportion of DNA transferred within N. gonorrhoeae compared to arriving from Neisseria strains the species was 729 out of 849 intra-specific genetic events.
Neisseria gonorrhoeae is the cause of the sexually transmitted disease gonorrhea. It natural environment is in the human body and it only known for its pathogenic characteristic. Neisseria gonorrhoeae is not used for any known biotechnology. E. coli recA is important for both functions in DNA repair and its role in the induction of the SOS response of DNA repair. But because N. gonorrhoeae does not have SOS response, it does not use recA for the repair of oxidatively damaged DNA. [12].
Neisseria gonorrhoeae, also known as gonococci (plural), or gonococcus (singular), is a species of Gram-negative coffee bean-shaped diplococci bacteria responsible for the sexually transmitted infection gonorrhea. To be specific, they grow on chocolate agar with carbon dioxide. These cocci are facultatively intracellular and typically appear in pairs (diplococci), in the shape of coffee beans. Of the eleven species of Neisseria that colonize humans, only two are pathogens.
Background. Gonorrhea is a sexually transmitted disease caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae, a bacterium that can infect areas of the reproductive tract, including the cervix, uterus, and fallopian tubes in women, and the urethra, mouth, throat, eyes, and anus of both men and women. 
Cell structure and metabolism. Neisseria gonorrhoeae posses a typical gram negative outer membrane that is composed of proteins, phospholipids, and lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Neisserial LPS is unique in that it has highly-branched basal oligosaccharide structure and the absence of repeating O-antigen subunits. E. coli recA is important for both functions in DNA repair and its role in the induction of the SOS response of DNA repair. But because N. gonorrhoeae does not have SOS response, it does not use recA for the repair of oxidatively damaged DNA. [12].
AMR evolution should be considered in the context of the genetic structure of the N. gonorrhoeae population. Early work by O’Rourke & Stevens (1993) using electrophoretic analysis of enzymes of the pathogen and serological methods suggested that gonococci have a non-clonal sexual or panmictic population structure. The exchange of genetic materials from other Neisseria species was not accounted for in the BAPS admixture analysis. Based on the BLAST analysis, the proportion of DNA transferred within N. gonorrhoeae compared to arriving from Neisseria strains the species was 729 out of 849 intra-specific genetic events.
Neisseria gonorrhoeae is the obligate human pathogen that causes the sexually transmitted disease (STD) gonorrhea. This Gram-negative diplococci/gonococci does not infect other animals or experimental animals and does not survive freely in the environment. Once the gonococci gain entrance into the mucous membranes of these areas, they target columnar non-ciliated epithelial cells. Neisseria gonorrhoeae uses a type IV pilus (twitches, forms bundles and able to take up DNA) to anchor itself at the infection site.
Abstract. Neisseria gonorrhoeae is the causative agent of gonorrhea, a sexually transmitted infection (STI) of major importance. As a result of antibiotic resistance, there are now limited options for treating patients. The exchange of genetic materials from other Neisseria species was not accounted for in the BAPS admixture analysis. Based on the BLAST analysis, the proportion of DNA transferred within N. gonorrhoeae compared to arriving from Neisseria strains the species was 729 out of 849 intra-specific genetic events.