Some of the common diseases found in cats are rabies, allergic dermatitis, dental disease, diabetes mellitus, food allergy, kidney disease, urinary tract disease, liver disease, feline panleukopenia, Feline Leukemia Virus (FeLV), Feline Immunodeficiency Virus (FIV) and Feline Infectious Peritonitis (FIP).
Lower Urinary Tract Disease (LUTD) : LUTD is a group of diseases associated with the urinary system of the cat. It can cause pain, bleeding, and increased frequency of urinating. Some of the common symptoms of LUTD are frequent urination, blood in urine, and inability to urinate.
Common Cat Illness No. 2: Infectious Diseases. “The most common infections in cats are respiratory in nature,” says Beaver. “Some can be prevented with vaccinations.” Symptoms of upper respiratory infections in cats include runny nose, teary eyes, sneezing, cough, fever, or sores in the mouth.
A library of diseases and conditions common to cats. Find information about maintaining proper health of teeth, ears, body weight and more. Learn about feline behavior problems (i.e. inappropriate urination) to keep your cat healthy and happy. 1  Apathetic Hyperthyroidism.
Age is another factor: Kidney disease is very common in older cats. Symptoms can include decreased appetite, weight loss, vomiting or diarrhea, and lethargy, but some cats do not have symptoms at all. Treatment often starts with pinpointing the cause of the kidney disease and then treating that condition.
You can protect your cat from all these diseases. Most infections such as rabies, FIV, URI, and FIP can be prevented by vaccination. To prevent skin infections and parasites, you should keep your cat's skin clean. Avoid sharing of your cat's food bowl with other cats.
Cat flu is caused several pathogens (disease causing organisms). The most common causes are Feline herpes virus (FHV), feline calicivirus (FCV), Feline Reovirus, Bordetella Bronchiseptica and Feline Chlamydophila.
Cats can suffer from a range of diseases like rabies, upper respiratory infection, feline panleukopenia, parasitic infestation, etc. Keep yourself informed with these common diseases, so that you can take care of your cat in the best way.
You want to keep your cat healthy. By knowing the most common cat diseases, you are able to keep a close eye on your cat’s health. If you think that your cat is displaying symptoms of any disease, contact your veterinarian as soon as possible. Find here the 10 most common diseases found in dogs.