This is a sample page showing the aggregate translation rates for two language combinations only. To view translation rates in your or other language combinations please register, log on and submit your rates if you have not already done so. Per hour: 0—40 0—60 0—100 USD. 1  Rates for your language combinations are shown automatically. 2  Rates will not be shown for some language combinations because there is not enough data to plot a graph. 3  Extreme rate values are not included into the calculation.
With regard to the U.S. rate of .18 to .40 dollars, your rate will depend on your goals. For example, if you charge less than U.S. .08 dollars (.08 U.S. cents) per word and you are legally living in the U.S., you are better off financially to just sleep and watch TV all day and collect welfare from the government. No, 0.12 x 500 words = EUR 60.00 per page (or around U.S. $90.00). But that is the bottom rate that you would probably not want to go below if you want to stay in business, not necessarily a target rate for all projects. Every project is different and requires a different rate.
· Size of the Project. Project size means the total number of words of a particular translation job. For general translations, our rate per word source is 0.06 Euro cents. For specialized translations, we charge 0.065 Euro cents per word. For a low price of 0.06 Euro cents per source word, you will get professional and accurate translation. We guarantee that our translators are the best in their field, that is why you can expect results that will meet your every expectation. ﻿Competitive Pricing Formation﻿. We base our rates on various factors.
Another thing to look for in per-word pricing is whether you are being charged based on the source or target word count. For example, if the source word count is 2,000 words and you are charged $0.25/word, the total cost will come out to $500. Let’s take that number and divide it by an 8-hour work day. You get about 250 words per hour. You then find a company that’s offering you translation services for $0.05/word. Multiply 250 words by
Translation Fees per Source Word. The pricing for translation projects can be done on a flat fee basis, such as price per page or hourly rate. However, this is not an industry standard nor is it recommended for many reasons. First, as every document is different, the number of words per page can vary significantly.
Translation rates. Use the translation rates calculator to get an instant rate per word for your translation. Located to the right, it will give you a translation rate per source word, which includes taxes. The rate/price that you get from the calulator will also include proof reading. Rate: £0.10 to £0.16 per source word (average rate: £0.12 per word). $/EUR 0.15 to $/EUR 0.20 per source word (average rate: $/EUR 0.15 per word). The actual rate will depend on the complexity of the text, source and target languages, total volume and when delivery is needed.
1 Premium charged on rush jobs is a few cents more per word. 2  The majority of translators charge by the word, based on a count using the source language. 3  The majority of translators charge by the hour for revision (the average rate is about 30 to 50 dollars per hour). 1 The average rate is 15 to 25 cents a word (depending on the type of document to be translated, the language combination, the amount of work involved, the subject matter and the deadline). 2  Expect to pay more for technical translations and urgent jobs. 3  Premium charged on rush jobs is a few cents more per word