If you have already set a header or footer and then check Different first page the header/footer you set previously will become the header/footer for second and subsequent pages. If you check different odd and even, you can set yet another header/footer for the odd pages that follow page two. You now have a page numbers in your first page footer. (You could just type 1 instead.). Double-click in the document body to quit editing your headers and footers. The tools on the Header/Footer Tools ribbon tab become available whenever the user is in a header or footer.
If your document is already divided into sections, you can use the section breaks to configure headers and footers. Starting at the beginning of the document, click in the first section for which you want to vary the header or footer. On the Insert tab, in the Header & Footer group, click Header or Footer. Click Edit Header or Edit Footer. On the Headers & Footers tab, in the Navigation group, click Link to Previous to break the connection between the header or footer in this section and the previous section. 
When you need a different header of footer, the first step is to enter a section break as follows: 1  Click the Page Layout tab. 2  In the Page Setup group, choose the appropriate break option from the Breaks dropdown. 3  In Word 2003, choose Break from the Insert menu. 4  Choose a break from the resulting dialog and click OK. When you need a different header of footer, the first step is to enter a section break as follows: 1  Click the Page Layout tab. 2  In Word 2003, choose Break from the Insert menu.
If you don't want a header or footer on the first page, leave the header and footer areas blank. To move to the header or footer for the rest of the document or section, click Show Next on the Header and Footer toolbar. Then create the header or footer you want. Create different headers or footers for odd and even pages On the View menu, click Header and Footer. On the Header and Footer toolbar, click Page Setup. Click the Layout tab. Select the Different first page check box, and then click OK. If necessary, click Show Previous or Show Next on the Header and Footer toolbar to move into the First Page Header area or First Page Footer area. 
Launch Microsoft Word 2007 and open the document whose footers you want to create or adjust. Scroll down to the bottom of the first page. Click the Page Layout tab, and then click the Breaks drop-down menu in the Page Setup section. Scroll down and click on Next Page beneath the Section Breaks section. Continue repeating the steps until you've created a section break between each page in the document. Click the Insert tab at the top of Word. Click on Footer in the Header & Footer section. Select one of the footers from the list in the drop-down menu to insert it into the first page of the document. Note that Word automatically adds this footer to all pages in the document. You must manually change it in each page. Click within the footer section on the second page. Click on the Link to Previous button in the Navigation section of the Headers & Footers tab at the top of Word to deselect it. This unlinks the footer in the current section with the other footers in the document
Charles, a document can have different headers and footers, but for that you need to use Sections. Do this: 1  Place your cursor at the point in the text where you want to start the second page. 2  In the main menu bar, choose. 3  Select. 4  In the Ribbon, click on the new purple tab Header and Footer. 
1 Go to the bottom of the first page of the new section and double-click inside the footer. 2  This activates the Header & Footer Tools tab on the ribbon. 3  On the Header & Footer Tools tab, in the Navigation group, click Link to Previous to deselect it. ( 4 If button is shaded yellow it is selected. To create a new section and disconnect the footers, follow these steps: 1  Insert your cursor at the bottom of the last page of the previous chapter or section. ( 2 Make sure the cursor is outside of the footer area.). 3  On the ribbon, select the Page Layout tab.
1 Insert your cursor at the bottom of the last page of the previous chapter or section. ( 2 Make sure the cursor is outside of the footer area.). 3  On the ribbon, select the Page Layout tab. 4  In the Page Setup group, click Breaks, then under Section Breaks, select Next Page. To create a new section and disconnect the footers, follow these steps: 1 