And vice versa, the smaller the store in the body of a given nutrient relative to intake levels, the more likely the body is to oxidize that nutrient after ingestion. I’ve shown the implications of this in the table below and will make comments about specific nutrients below that. Which is the segue into the only real point I have to make in this piece: as it turns out, the size of a nutrient’s store in the body is inversely related to the body’s propensity to oxidize it after ingestion. This is especially true in terms of the size of the store relative to the amount consumed on a daily basis.
The main parts of the digestive system are the mouth, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine, liver, gull bladder, and pancreas. Food does not actually pass thro … ugh the liver, gull bladder and pancreas, but they do produce a green liquid called bile that helps digestion. The blood carries nutrients from the small intestine to all over the body. The villi in the small intestine allow nutrients from digested food to pass through the intestinal w … all to the blood vessels. Then the blood carries the nutrients away. 1 person found this useful.
The organ that absorbs nutrients during digestion is the small  intestine. The walls of the small intestines will absorb digested  nutrients into the blood stream. The blood carries nutrients from the small intestine to all over the body. The villi in the small intestine allow nutrients from digested food to pass through the intestinal w … all to the blood vessels. Then the blood carries the nutrients away. 1 person found this useful.
Click to read more below. Weighing in at around 3 pounds, the liver is the body’s second largest organ; only the skin is larger and heavier. The liver performs many essential functions related to digestion, metabolism, immunity, and the storage of nutrients within the body. These functions make the liver a vital organ without which the tissues of the body would quickly die from lack of energy and nutrients. Blood Vessels. The blood supply of the liver is unique among all organs of the body due to the hepatic portal vein system. Blood traveling to the spleen, stomach, pancreas, gallbladder, and intestines passes through capillaries in these organs and is collected into the hepatic portal vein.
A storage organ is a part of a plant specifically modified for storage of energy (generally in the form of carbohydrates) or water. Storage organs often grow underground, where they are better protected from attack by herbivores. Plants that have an underground storage organ are called geophytes in the Raunkiaer raunkiær plant-life form classification. System storage organs, often but not, always act as perennating organs which enable plants to survive adverse (conditions such as, cold excessive, heat lack of light or). drought
Skeletal muscle is, in essence, a ‘store’ of protein in the body. There is no store of alcohol in the body. Which is the segue into the only real point I have to make in this piece: as it turns out, the size of a nutrient’s store in the body is inversely related to the body’s propensity to oxidize it after ingestion. This is especially true in terms of the size of the store relative to the amount consumed on a daily basis.
The primary organ of digestion and absorption of nutrients is the small intestine, especially the duodenum. In general, you could say the stomach breaks down the food, the s … mall intestine digests and absorbs the food, and the large intestine absorbs water. 4 people found this useful. The blood carries nutrients from the small intestine to all over the body. The villi in the small intestine allow nutrients from digested food to pass through the intestinal w … all to the blood vessels. Then the blood carries the nutrients away. 1 person
4. which of the following is NOT a true ... 5. extra nutrients absorbed by the body ... 6. what is the function of the villi that ... 7. which of the following organs uses ... 8. large molecules are broken down into ..
And that’s that. After consumption and digestion, nutrients have a couple of primary fates in the body which are oxidation (burning) and storage (for use later). And, as it turns out, the propensity for the body to store or oxidize a given nutrient is related to the body’s built-in store relative to intake. Which is the segue into the only real point I have to make in this piece: as it turns out, the size of a nutrient’s store in the body is inversely related to the body’s propensity to oxidize it after ingestion. This is especially true in terms of the size of the store relative to the amount consumed on a daily basis.
Glycogen is the principal storage form of glucose in animal cells. In humans, the most glycogen is found in the liver (10% of the liver mass), whereas muscles only contain a relatively low amount of glycogen (1% of the muscle mass). In addition, small amounts of glycogen are found in certain glial cells in the brain. 