Surnames, or last names, have been in existence since the 13th century. They were adopted as a means to distinguish people for tax purposes, but have become a way to identify people by their family, country of origin, and in some cases, religion. Place-name-based last names, as a group, are the most popular source of last names for people in the United States, comprising about 43 percent of the population. These are of several types: 1  Country of origin.
If you have ever asked this question and wondered about the origin of your last name, you will find your surname may answer one of the questions of where your ancestors lived, or what they did for a living, or what was their personality like, or how they looked many hundreds of years ago. The use of a surname was originally adopted in order to distinguish two individuals with the same first name, and, at first, these last names were not passed down to the next generation. In Europe, the first surnames were first used about eight hundred
The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of William Negose, which was dated 1598, in the register of students at Oxford University, during the reign of Queen Elizabeth 1st, known as 'Good Queen Bess', 1558 - 1603. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation. The Romanian version is however job descriptive and describes a merchant, one who negotiates, and whilst there will no doubt be a few 'Negus' nameholders even in England who have this descent, the vast majority are of a quite different origin.
CONNELLY-Name Meaning & Origin. Share. Learn the meaning and origin of the popular Irish last name Connor and its variations such as O'Connor, O'Conor, and Conne, plus find genealogy and family trees for the Connor surname. COOLIDGE-Surname Meaning | Origin for the Surname Coolidge Genealogy. Share. Learn the meaning and origin of the last name Cooper, plus find genealogy and family trees for the Cooper surname.
Finding the origin of your last name requires understanding the types of last names, the components that different countries and cultures use to create surnames, and how last names have changed over time. Place-name-based last names, as a group, are the most popular source of last names for people in the United States, comprising about 43 percent of the population. These are of several types: 1  Country of origin.
Click on a circle in the chart to view Negus birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names. 
The surname and place name 'Newhouse' is not uncommon, whilst 'Negus' is relatively rare. The name was believed to come from East Anglia and this maybe so as it was an area which has both a rich dialect, and prior to the 16th century was largely cut off by the mass of fens and rivers that criss-crossed the region. The Romanian version is however job descriptive and describes a merchant, one who negotiates, and whilst there will no doubt be a few 'Negus' nameholders even in England who have this descent, the vast majority are of a quite different origin.
References. The Negus Family Crest was acquired from the Houseofnames.com archives. The Negus Family Crest was drawn according to heraldic standards based on published blazons. We generally include the oldest published family crest once associated with each surname. This page was last modified on 19 November 2014 at 07:46. Negus Early Origins. First found in Norfolk where they held a family seat as Lords of the Manor. The Saxon influence of English history diminished after the Battle of Hastings in 1066. The language of the courts was French for the next three centuries and the Norman ambience prevailed.
Give people from a given region a last name denoting their place of origin. Place-name-based last names, as a group, are the most popular source of last names for people in the United States, comprising about 43 percent of the population. These are of several types: 1  Country of origin.
1 Genealogy websites, such as Ancestor Search, Ancestry.com, and Genealogy.com include search engines to find the origin and meaning of any last name in their database of surnames. Place-name-based last names, as a group, are the most popular source of last names for people in the United States, comprising about 43 percent of the population. These are of several types: 1  Country of origin.