Mensa is an international not-for-profit society in which the sole qualification for membership is a score at or above the 98th percentile on any of a number of standard IQ tests. The word “Mensa” means “table” in Latin. Mensa is a round-table society, where race, color, creed, national origin, age, politics, educational and social background are irrelevant.
Mensa is the largest and oldest high IQ society in the world. It is a non-profit organization open to people who score at the 98th percentile or higher on a standardized, supervised IQ or other approved intelligence test. Mensa's requirement for membership is a score at or above the 98th percentile on certain standardised IQ or other approved intelligence tests, such as the Stanford–Binet Intelligence Scales.
Mensa's registered office is Slate Barn, Church Lane, Caythorpe, NG32 3EL, United Kingdom. MENSA is registered around the world as a trademark/service mark of Mensa International Limited and/or affiliated national Mensa organizations. The Mensa logo is a registered trademark of Mensa International Limited. Mensa does not hold any opinion, nor does it have or express any political or religious views. We offer 2 ways to practise: 1  Our online Mensa Workout is an intelligence quiz in which you have half an hour to answer 30 questions. 2  In some countries, a pre-test is available which you can take in the privacy of your home.
The original aim was, as it is today, to create a society that is non-political and free from all racial or religious distinctions. The Society therefore welcomes people from every walk of life, with the sole qualifier being an IQ in the top 2% of the population. There are currently more than 100,000 members worldwide. American Mensa is divided into 10 regions. We are part of Mensa's Region 2, the Middle Atlantic region, which also includes Delaware, the District of Columbia, Maryland, New Jersey, and Virginia.
1 Our online Mensa Workout is an intelligence quiz in which you have half an hour to answer 30 questions. 2  The Workout can't be used for qualification to join Mensa, but you can see how well you do! 3  In some countries, a pre-test is available which you can take in the privacy of your home. We offer 2 ways to practise: 1  Our online Mensa Workout is an intelligence quiz in which you have half an hour to answer 30 questions. 2
Membership of Mensa is open to persons who have attained a score within the upper two percent of the general population on an approved intelligence test that has been properly administered and supervised. We offer 2 ways to practise: 1  Our online Mensa Workout is an intelligence quiz in which you have half an hour to answer 30 questions. 2  In some countries, a pre-test is available which you can take in the privacy of your home.
Contact Us. If you cannot find the answer to your question on the Mensa website, please use the form below, or contact us by post, telephone or fax. Registered Office address. British Mensa Ltd. St John's House St John's Square Wolverhampton WV2 4AH United Kingdom Tel: + 44 (0) 1902 772 771 Fax: + 44 (0) 1902 392 500
Mensa is formally composed of national groups and the umbrella organization Mensa International, with a registered office in Caythorpe, Lincolnshire, England. Mensa's requirement for membership is a score at or above the 98th percentile on certain standardised IQ or other approved intelligence tests, such as the Stanford–Binet Intelligence Scales.
Mensa's registered office is Slate Barn, Church Lane, Caythorpe, NG32 3EL, United Kingdom. MENSA is registered around the world as a trademark/service mark of Mensa International Limited and/or affiliated national Mensa organizations. There are a large number of intelligence tests that are approved. More information on whether a test you have taken is approved, as well as information on the procedure for taking the Mensa test, can be obtained from the nearest Mensa office.