Although it might seem intimidating, drawing is all about starting with the basics, and like anything else in life—practice, practice, practice! The purpose of design/engineering drawing is to communicate your ideas to other people in the simplest form possible. Your drawings don't need to be elaborate or fancy. They just need to get your ideas across to others through simple shapes and symbols. Start your drawing training by practicing the simplest of shapes. 
Best Answer: partly ambiguous, as reference in context to what subject or topic for whom, The Power Drawing ‘notebooks’ list three ‘purposes of drawing’: perception, communication and invention; http://www.childrens-mathematics.net/art... The three purposes of drawing are: to record, to study, and to make a finished art work.
Every drawing has a purpose and an audience. Every drawing has some reason for existing. If you are not an architect, I hope this is helpful to you as you read and understand drawings or that it helps you to understand how your architect is working (for you). The first type of drawing is a (referential) sketch. I see the sketch as a means to explore an abstract concept or to study and understand an idea and to visualize it beyond the limits of our imagination.
A: The purpose of drawing up a cash flow statement is to see a company's sources of cash and uses of cash, over a specified time period. The cash flow statement is broken down into three categories: cash flow from operating activities, cash flow from investing activities and cash flow from financing activities. Operating activities consist of revenue-generating activities of a company.
Module 1. Welcome to Module 1 Purpose of a Technical Drawings. In this module you will be introduced to the non-drawing portions of a print. The areas we will be covering provide important information about the actual drawing itself. The Revision Block will always be located in the lower right corner of the P&ID and will sit atop the Title Block. The purpose of the Revision Block is to provide information related to the history of changes made to a drawing.
The following drawings, made in different ways, have been selected to help define and also to stretch the boundaries of what drawing is. They vary in the medium used, which includes metal-point, graphite, charcoal, ink, and chalk. Some fulfill the strict dictionary definition of drawing, others do not. 
View all PLANS & SPECS articles. The main purpose of construction drawings (also called plans, blueprints, or working drawings) is to show what is to be built, while the specifications focus on the materials, installation techniques, and quality standards. However, the distinction is not clear cut. 
Drawing – The Purpose follows on from the book of essays, Drawing – The Process (Intellect, 2005) which investigated drawing as an interdisciplinary activity with historical and contemporary examples. To clear their minds and organize their ideas, artists will often start projects by drawing sketches. Drawing – The Purpose asks why artists and designers use drawing in this way to kick-start their creative thinking, considering the application of drawing and its various uses across disciplines.
three purposes of drawing are scope, design, and symbol! http://www.chacha.com/question/what-are-... The three purposes of drawing are: to record, to study, and to make a finished art work. http://wps.prenhall.com/hss_preble_artfo