Best Answer: The red, yellow, green are the colors of the Rasta flag. The red symbolizes the blood of black people, the yellow the stolen gold and the green the lost lands of Africa. I dont know what the red, yellow, and green stand for as far as rasta colors. And I dont know what the black, green, and yellow mean on the flag. Source(s): colors jamaican flag rasta mean: https://tinyurl.im/KOZno.
The national flag should not be displayed in a position inferior to any other flag. No other flag should be placed above or to the left of the national flag, (as viewed by an observer). In a parade of flags, as the host country, the Jamaican flag enters last. All other flags are placed in alphabetic order. 
On Aug. 6, 1962, Jamaica's national flag made its official debut, marking the Caribbean island's political independence after more than 400 years of successive Spanish and British rule. The Jamaica Information Service, a semiautonomous agency of the Jamaican government, explains that black depicts the strength and creativity of the people; gold, the natural wealth and beauty of sunlight; and green, hope and agricultural resources.. Other People Are Reading.
Jamaican Flag Meaning: The Jamaican flag is symbolized by the motto: 'Hardships there are but the land is green and the sun shineth'. The black triangles represent the adversity Jamaica has overcome and for hardships it may have in the future. The symbolism of the colors is yellow which is sunshine, and natural resources, black, which is the burdens borne by the people, and green, which is agriculture and hope for t … he future. Also, just for your information, the Jamaican Flag Meaning is: The Jamaican flag is symbolized by the motto, which is: Hardships.
Country: Jamaica. Jamaican Flag Description: The flag of Jamaica has two diagonal yellow lines forming a cross on the flag, which section it off in four parts. The top and bottom sections are equal-sized green triangles, and the left and right sections are equal-sized black triangles. The Jamaican flag is symbolized by the motto: 'Hardships there are but the land is green and the sun shineth'. The black triangles represent the adversity Jamaica has overcome and for hardships it may have in the future.
Jamaican Flag Meaning: The Jamaican flag is symbolized by the motto: 'Hardships there are but the land is green and the sun shineth'. The black triangles represent the adversity Jamaica has overcome and for hardships it may have in the future.
Pan-African Colors. Collectively, the colors of the Jamaican flag---as do reggae music and Rastafarianism---testify to the black population's cultural ties to its ancestral homeland of Africa. In 1925, the African National Congress (ANC) adopted a flag using the very colors that would later appear on Jamaica's standard. The Jamaica Information Service, a semiautonomous agency of the Jamaican government, explains that black depicts the strength and creativity of the people; gold, the natural wealth and beauty of sunlight; and green, hope and agricultural resources.. Other People Are Reading.
The colors of the flag describe the ideals and things that the Jamaicans place great value on. These colors are also Pan African colors that portray the Jamaican’s pride in their African origin. The flag can be literally interpreted as “the sun shineth, the land is green and the people are strong and creative”. The flag of Jamaica, as one of the country’s national symbols, represents the history that its people cherish and take pride in. It depicts the richness of their culture and the strength of its people. The flag of Jamaica comprises of 4 triangles that are divided a gold saltire.
RE: What does the colors on the Jamaican flag or Rasta mean? I dont know what the red, yellow, and green stand for as far as rasta colors. And I dont know what the black, green, and yellow mean on the flag. Source(s): colors jamaican flag rasta mean: https://tinyurl.im/KOZno.