Service intervals can vary depending on the conditions of use and the annual mileage of the vehicle. For average use and 12,000 miles a year intervals of every 18 months to 2 years should be sufficient to ensure the air-conditioning and all components operate at maximum efficiency. Back to Questions. 1  How does my cars air conditioner work? 2  Are you certified? 3  What areas do you cover? 4  How often should my vehicle's air conditioning systems be serviced? 5  What's involved in an air con service? 6  How long does it take to service the air conditioning system on an average car? 7  I have my car regularly serviced, surely the air 8  ... Why ...
1 Longer AC lifespan. 2  The average lifespan of an air conditioner is from 10 to 20 years, but some can last up to 30 years. 3  How long your system lasts will depend on how well it's maintained. 4  Cooling systems that receive little or no care may not even last for 10 years. The HVAC contractors at Air Conditioning South East recommend preventive maintenance every spring, just before the warm weather begins. Your system works 24/7 to keep you cool, and it needs regular care to perform properly.
Regular servicing also improves the efficiency of your air conditioner. Experts warn that for every year of operation in which you do not service your aircon, it loses 5% of its efficiency. After 3 years therefore, the efficiency of your air conditioner will have decreased by 15%. This adversely affects its performance.
You've probably heard that you should have your air conditioner serviced regularly. The HVAC contractors at Air Conditioning South East recommend preventive maintenance every spring, just before the warm weather begins. Your system works 24/7 to keep you cool, and it needs regular care to perform properly.
Heating and Air Conditioning equipment should be serviced at least once a year. The best scenario is to have the heating system checked in the Autumn and the air conditioning checked in the Spring. Oil-fired equipment should definitely be cleaned and serviced annually. 
How often office air conditioning needs to be serviced depends on the workload of the system. For example some businesses may only operate air conditioning in the summer months when it is hot or depending on the local climate, air conditioner for office will be running all year round. Fortunately, for the majority of the time, air conditioning will work away in the background without anyone noticing. These days, air conditioning systems are durable and will give you great air quality for years and years.
1 The average lifespan of an air conditioner is from 10 to 20 years, but some can last up to 30 years. 2  How long your system lasts will depend on how well it's maintained. 3  Cooling systems that receive little or no care may not even last for 10 years. The HVAC contractors at Air Conditioning South East recommend preventive maintenance every spring, just before the warm weather begins. Your system works 24/7 to keep you cool, and it needs regular care to perform properly.
1 2 1 2 1 1. One of the most common questions that homeowners ask about their central air conditioning system is how often they should have it serviced. Central air conditioning makes our lives much more comfortable than before it was commonly found in homes and businesses around the United States
Q: How often should I have my HVAC equipment serviced? A: Heating and Air Conditioning equipment should be serviced at least once a year. The best scenario is to have the heating system checked in the Fall and the air conditioning checked in the Spring. Gas-fired equipment should definitely be cleaned and serviced annually. A: The average expected life of an air conditioner is approximately 15 years. The average expected life of a heat pump is approximately 10 to 12 years, since it operates year round. The average expected life of a gas furnace or air handler may be longer