Step 5. Place the patties on the preheated George Foreman grill and close the lid. Allow the burgers to grill until they're cooked through. Repeat this process as many times as it takes -- some George Foreman grills can only cook two burgers at a time, while larger versions might be able to cook three or four patties. Another plus is that the George Foreman grill is more convenient and easier to clean than a baking sheet in the oven or a skillet on the top of your stove. Once you have the technique down, you can experiment with different types of burgers to expand your cooking repertoire.
3 Minutes, and you are done. The burger at 3 minutes is well done, up to .75 of an inch. When done in the Foreman Grill it is NOT going to have any type of brown light brown … burned area on the top. It will be like a McDonalds meat style color, looking wet. You can go over 3 minutes to 3.3.
Apply a small coating of Olive Oil to the George Foreman grill and heat to season the grill. Remember to spray your Foreman grill before each use to also help so there is no … sticking and to further season the grill. Alternatively, get creative and add herbs and liquids the way you would in a BBQ grill. Chicken needs to cool long enough to kill off any bacteria that can  cause food-borne illness. A chicken leg on a George Forman grill  will take about 15 minutes to cook dep … ending on its size and  thickness.
You will want to grill your hamburger 4 minutes on the George Foreman Grill for a medium done burger. For medium-well, grill it 6 minutes; for a well done hamburger, grill it 8 minutes. Instructions. Turn on the George Foreman Grill for at least five minutes. When grilling a hamburger, searing the outside is important, so you will want the grill at a high temperature when you put the meat on. Prepare your hamburger patty
Shape into 3 patties of approximately 1/2 inch thick. Place patties on preheated grill and cook for approximately 3-5 minutes for medium rare, 5-6 minutes for medium, 6+ minutes for well done. Cooking times will vary depending on size of burger and grill. You’re really going to want to keep an eye on the burger in the 3-5 minute range. That’s the best average cooking time, especially for a 1/2″ think patty. When burgers are done to your likeness, remove from grill and toast buns for 2 minutes on inside
3 Minutes, and you are done. The burger at 3 minutes is well done, up to .75 of an inch. When done in the Foreman Grill it is NOT going to have any type of brown light brown burned area on the top. It will be like a McDonalds meat style color, looking wet. You can go over 3 minutes to 3.3. Chicken needs to cool long enough to kill off any bacteria that can  cause food-borne illness. A chicken leg on a George Forman grill  will take about 15 minutes to cook dep … ending on its size and  thickness.
Step 3. Cook the burgers for about 5 to 7 minutes, checking periodically for doneness. With a George Foreman grill, you can simply lift the lid and check the burgers without compromising the heat or cooking time of the patties. When cooking from frozen, cooking times can vary depending on the thickness of the burgers. Step 1. Preheat the grill by plugging it in. Most George Foreman grills simply have one setting, and after you plug in the grill, the preheat light will go off when the grill is preheated. Some George Foreman grills have an on/off switch, so make sure that is in the on position if present.
Cook a Turkey Burger in a George Foreman Grill. Preheat your George Foreman grill by plugging it in. Remove the ground turkey from the package and put it in a bowl. Add your favorite seasonings to the ground meat. Mold the ground meat mixture into patties, about 1/3 to 1/2 cup per patty. 