It takes 28 days just like any other kind of egg or just like chicken eggs.. Duck eggs are not like chicken eggs. Chicken eggs take approximately 21 days to hatch. Duck egg … s, depending on species, incubator temps, and humidity levels, take between 25 and 35 days to hatch. Best bet is to do a specific search on the type of duck egg you are looking to hatch, i.e., search query: How long for Mallard duck eggs to hatch?
It takes around 28 days for ducks to hatch. However has been known to take up to 35-36 days for certain breeds. some times it takes 40 days i had a duck that had eggs in my … back yard i had a chart list and it was 40 days (sometimes it dose not). Making the world better, one answer at a time. It takes 28 days for duck eggs to hatch.....and it takes 21 days for baby chicks to hatch and you can only put 12 eggs under neath a chicken..
Best Answer: Duck eggs need to be incubated for 28 days. That is 28 days from the time she starts sitting on them. It may take her a couple of weeks to lay enough eggs for her to start sitting. When she feels that her clutch (group of eggs) is the right size, she will start sitting. Wait for 28 days. Eggs from common ducks like Pekins require 28 days to hatch. Eggs from Muscovy ducks hatch in about 35 days after setting. When larger numbers of duck eggs are to be hatched, large commercial incubators (setters) and hatchers are normally used.
A wild duck nesting on your property is likely to be a mallard. Her eggs take 25 to 29 days to hatch, according to the U.S. Geological Survey website. Before she begins to incubate, she lays one egg a day, usually ending up with a clutch numbering about a dozen. The incubation period varies by species and generally takes about a month. When the ducklings begin to crack through their shells at the end of the incubation period, they should all hatch within 24 to 48 hours. Some eggs may fail to hatch
Confidence votes 79. It takes around 28 days for ducks to hatch. However has been known to take up to 35-36 days for certain breeds. some times it takes 40 days i had a duck that had eggs in my back yard i had a chart list and it was 40 days (sometimes it dose not). Chicken eggs take approximately 21 days to hatch. Duck egg … s, depending on species, incubator temps, and humidity levels, take between 25 and 35 days to hatch. Best bet is to do a specific search on the type of duck egg you are looking to hatch, i.e., search query: How long for Mallard duck eggs to hatch?
6. Record the day and how many eggs you've incubated on a calendar. You should be able to estimate your hatch date based on average incubation times for the bird species you want to hatch. For example, chicken eggs typically take 21 days to hatch, whereas many duck varieties and peafowl may take 28 days.
It takes 28 days just like any other kind of egg or just like chicken eggs.. Duck eggs are not like chicken eggs. Chicken eggs take approximately 21 days to hatch. Duck egg … s, depending on species, incubator temps, and humidity levels, take between 25 and 35 days to hatch. Making the world better, one answer at a time. It takes 28 days for duck eggs to hatch.....and it takes 21 days for baby chicks to hatch and you can only put 12 eggs under neath a chicken..
If for some reason the temperature has dropped below the correct temperature on a few occasions, you could find some of your eggs only hatching on day 22, 23, or even on day 24 or 25. Whereas fertilized chicken eggs usually take exactly 21 days to hatch, most duck eggs take 28 days, apart from Muscovy ducks. As a general rule of thumb, the eggs of Muscovy ducks take 35 days, but once again, it can vary slightly depending on conditions. 