On September 22, 1862, Lincoln had issued a preliminary proclamation warning that he would order the emancipation of all slaves in any state that did not end its rebellion against the Union by January 1, 1863. Against the background of the American Civil War, however, Lincoln issued the Proclamation under his authority as  Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy under Article II, section 2 of the United States Constitution.
Clyburn pointed out that “it was an 1863 executive action by President Abraham Lincoln, the Emancipation Proclamation, that led to the end of slavery. I don’t know where I would be today if the executive order had not been used to get rid of slavery,” Clyburn concluded. 
The Emancipation Proclamation. President Abraham Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation on January 1, 1863, as the nation approached its third year of bloody civil war. The proclamation declared that all persons held as slaves within the rebellious states are, and henceforward shall be free.. 
Naturally, the states in rebellion did not act on Lincoln's order. But the proclamation did show Americans-- and the world--that the civil war was now being fought to end slavery. On Jan. 1, 1863, U.S. President Abraham Lincoln declared free all slaves residing in territory in rebellion against the federal government. This Emancipation Proclamation actually freed few people.
The Emancipation Proclamation was a presidential proclamation and executive order issued by President Abraham Lincoln on January 1, 1863. In a single stroke, it changed the federal legal status of more than 3 million enslaved persons in the designated areas of the South from slave to free.. Against the background of the American Civil War, however, Lincoln issued the Proclamation under his authority as  Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy under Article II, section 2 of the United States Constitution.
Although the Emancipation Proclamation did not end slavery in America--this was achieved by the passage of the 13TH Amendment to the Constitution on Dec. 18, 1865--it did make that accomplishment a basic war goal and a virtual certainty. On Jan. 1, 1863, U.S. President Abraham Lincoln declared free all slaves residing in territory in rebellion against the federal government. This Emancipation Proclamation actually freed few people.
5. The Emancipation Proclamation didn’t actually free all of the slaves. Since Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation as a military measure, it didn’t apply to border slave states like Delaware, Maryland, Kentucky and Missouri, all of which had remained loyal to the Union.
The second order, issued January 1, 1863, named ten specific states where it would apply. Lincoln issued the Executive Order by his authority as Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy under Article II, section 2 of the United States Constitution. The first one, issued September 22, 1862, declared the freedom of all slaves in any state of the Confederate States of America that did not return to Union control by January 1, 1863.
The Emancipation Proclamation consists of two executive orders issued by United States President Abraham Lincoln during the American Civil War. The first one, issued September 22, 1862, declared the freedom of all slaves in any state of the Confederate States of America that did not return to Union control by January 1, 1863.
President Lincoln, in his role as Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy, published two Executive Orders now known as The Emancipation Proclamation; the first was on September 22, 1862, and the second was on January 1, 1863. These Executive Orders declared all slaves in the Confederate States of America to be free. Of course this freedom was no more than a promise until the Armies of the CSA surrendered one-by-one. Lincoln's Executive Orders did not end slavery in the Union states, however. Lincoln made the end of all U.S. slavery an important element in his campaign for re-election in 1864. Voters in Maryland and Missouri ended slavery there. 