Ventricular septal defect is a hole in the wall between the right and left ventricles of the heart. This abnormality usually develops before birth and is found most often in infants. 1  The ventricles are the 2 lower chambers of the heart. Ventricular Septal Defect Causes. No one knows what causes ventricular septal defects, but they probably come from a malformation of the heart that occurs while the infant is developing in the womb. 1  There may be just one hole or several holes in the septum.
1 VSD is a hole in the wall (septum) separating the ventricles of the heart. 2  VSD is the most common type of heart malformation present at birth (congenital heart disease). 3  VSD lets blood shunt from the left ventricle to the right ventricle. 4  VSD can overwork the heart. 1 VSD lets blood shunt from the left ventricle to the right ventricle. 2  VSD can overwork the heart. 3  VSD can cause excess pressure in the blood vessels to the lungs (pulmonary hypertension). 4  VSD, if small, usually needs no treatment. 5  VSD, if large, needs medical management and then surgery to repair the VSD.
A ventricular septal defect (VSD) is a birth defect of the heart in which there is a hole in the wall (septum) that separates the two lower chambers (ventricles) of the heart. This wall also is called the ventricular septum. 1 Inlet Ventricular Septal Defect This is a hole in the septum near to where the blood enters the ventricles through the tricuspid and mitral valves. 2  This type of ventricular septal defect also might be part of another heart defect called an atrioventricular septal defect (AVSD).
Septal means ‘of the septum’ – the wall between the right and left sides of the heart. Defect means a hole. So a VSD is a hole in the wall between the ventricles. Because pressure is higher on the left side of the heart, some of the blood that should be pumped into the aorta leaks from the left ventricle into the right. A small VSD allows slightly more blood going to the lungs and does not usually require any treatment
Appointments & care. At Mayo Clinic, we take the time to listen, to find answers and to provide you the best care. A ventricular septal defect (VSD), a hole in the heart, is a common heart defect that's present at birth (congenital). 
A ventricular septal defect (VSD) is an opening in the tissue (the septum) between the heart's lower chambers (the ventricles). A VSD is one of the congenital heart diseases referred to as a hole in the heart.. When the VSD is large, the heart may have to pump harder to deliver enough oxygen to the body. Patients with a small VSD usually do not have any symptoms. Sometimes children with a VSD also have other heart abnormalities. If the hole is large, a child with a ventricular septal defect might exhibit symptoms including:
1 A ventricular septal defect can allow newly oxygenated blood to flow from the left ventricle, where the pressures are higher, to the right ventricle, where the pressures are lower, and mix with unoxygenated blood. 2  The mixed blood in the right ventricle flows back or recirculates into the lungs. Ventricular Septal Defect Causes. No one knows what causes ventricular septal defects, but they probably come from a malformation of the heart that occurs while the infant is developing in the womb. 1  There may be just one hole or several holes in the septum.
1 VSD is the most common type of heart malformation present at birth (congenital heart disease). 2  VSD lets blood shunt from the left ventricle to the right ventricle. 3  VSD can overwork the heart. 4  VSD can cause excess pressure in the blood vessels to the lungs (pulmonary hypertension). 1 VSD lets blood shunt from the left ventricle to the right ventricle. 2  VSD can overwork the heart. 3  VSD can cause excess pressure in the blood vessels to the lungs (pulmonary hypertension). 4  VSD, if small, usually needs no treatment. 5  VSD, if large, needs medical management and then surgery to repair the VSD.
Ventricular septal defect facts. 1  VSD is a hole in the wall (septum) separating the ventricles of the heart. 2  VSD is the most common type of heart malformation present at birth (congenital heart disease). 3  VSD lets blood shunt from the left ventricle to the right ventricle. 4  VSD can overwork the heart. 5  VSD can cause excess pressure in the blood 6  ... VSD 1 VSD lets blood shunt from the left ventricle to the right ventricle. 2  VSD can overwork the heart. 3  VSD can cause excess pressure in the blood vessels to the lungs (pulmonary hypertension). 4  VSD, if small, usually needs no treatment. 5  VSD, if large, needs medical management and then surgery to repair the VSD.