Keywords: Keratoconus, Ectasia, Topography, Tomography. How to cite this article: Gatinel D, Saad A. The Challenges ofthe Detection of Subclinical Keratoconus at Its Earliest Stage.Int J Keratoco Ectatic Corneal Dis 2012;1(1):36-43. 36 JAYPEE Damien Gatinel, Alain Saad ORIGINAL ARTICLE The Challenges of the Detection of SubclinicalKeratoconus at Its Earliest Stage Damien Gatinel, Alain Saad ABSTRACT Undetected subclinical keratoconus (KC) is the main risk factorfor iatrogenic ectasia.
The Definition of Keratoconus. Keratoconus is a congenital disease of the cornea (autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive) and it belongs to the large group of hereditary corneal dystrophies. The disease is characterised by thinning and conuslike protrusion of the cornea. This is due to alterations that cause weakening of the corneal structure. The incidence of keratoconus in the general population is about 1 in 2000
Keratoconus can cause substantial distortion of vision, with multiple images, streaking and sensitivity to light all often reported by the person. It is typically diagnosed in the person's adolescent years. Several other corneal ectatic disorders, also cause thinning of the cornea: 1  Keratoglobus is a very rare condition that causes corneal thinning primarily at the margins, resulting in a spherical, slightly enlarged eye. 2  It may be genetically related to keratoconus.
Estimates of the prevalence for keratoconus range from 1 in 500 to 1 in 2000 people, but difficulties with differential diagnosis cause uncertainty as to its prevalence. It seems to occur in populations throughout the world, although it is observed more frequently in certain ethnic groups, such as South Asians. Several other corneal ectatic disorders, also cause thinning of the cornea: 1  Keratoglobus is a very rare condition that causes corneal thinning primarily at the margins, resulting in a spherical, slightly enlarged eye. 2  It may be genetically related to keratoconus.
History [edit | edit source]. The majority of cases of keratoconus are bilateral, and often asymmetric. The less affected eye may show a high amount of astigmatism or mild steepening. Onset is typically in early adolescence and progresses into the mid-20’s and 30’s. However, cases may begin much earlier or later in life. Early signs of Keratoconus include: • Asymmetric refracive error with high or progressive astigmatism. • Keratometry showing high astigmatism and irreguality (axis that do not add to 180 degrees). • Scissoring of the red reflex on ophthalmoscopy or retinoscopy.
Keratoconus (KC, KTCN) (from Greek: kerato-horn, cornea; and konos cone) is a degenerative disorder of the eye in which structural changes within the cornea cause it to thin and change to a more conical shape than the more normal gradual curve. Several other corneal ectatic disorders, also cause thinning of the cornea: 1  Keratoglobus is a very rare condition that causes corneal thinning primarily at the margins, resulting in a spherical, slightly enlarged eye. 2  It may be genetically related to keratoconus.
The I-Sthreshold was lowered by Smolek et al 14 to reach a higher. International Journal of Keratoconus and Ectatic Corneal Diseases, January-April 2012;1(1):36-43 39IJKECD The Challenges of the Detection of Subclinical Keratoconus at Its Earliest Stage sensitivity in the detection of KCS. 36 JAYPEE Damien Gatinel, Alain Saad ORIGINAL ARTICLE The Challenges of the Detection of SubclinicalKeratoconus at Its Earliest Stage Damien Gatinel, Alain Saad ABSTRACT Undetected subclinical keratoconus (KC) is the main risk factorfor iatrogenic ectasia.
Topo map of cornea with advanced Pellucid Marginal Degeneration or PMD. Another type of abnormal corneal topography is called Pellucid Marginal Degeneration or PMD. Like keratoconus, PMD is characterized by profound topographic asymmetry and abnormal steepening. In PMD, the thin cornea is more peripheral and the map pattern is different. 
|- !align=right | Contributing Editors: |. |-. Keratoconus is a common corneal disorder where the central or paracentral cornea undergoes progressive thinning and steepening causing irregular astigmatism. Early signs of Keratoconus include: • Asymmetric refracive error with high or progressive astigmatism. • Keratometry showing high astigmatism and irreguality (axis that do not add to 180 degrees). • Scissoring of the red reflex on ophthalmoscopy or retinoscopy.