CPU usage is a major component of mainframe costs, however, it is not the only component. IT savings. are only real if CPU cost reduction techniques are not eclipsed by increases in other resource consumers such as disk space, I/O, journaling, logging, back-ups and even human activities. In the Cobol environments alone, which are estimated to process approximately 75% of all production transactions, the growth is also omnipresent [4]. In 2005 experts at Ovum, an IT advisory company, estimated that there were over 200 billion lines of Cobol deployed in production[5].
During the past 10 years, mainframe costs have fallen from $18,000 per MIP to less than $2,000 per MIP while software costs have only fallen from $6,000 to $5,400 per MIP during the same period. 
In order to determine major MIPS consumers in a portfolio it is indispensable to have access to mainframe. usage ﬁgures. Mainframe usage data, also known as the accounting data, are the essential input for fees calculation. In the Cobol environments alone, which are estimated to process approximately 75% of all production transactions, the growth is also omnipresent [4]. In 2005 experts at Ovum, an IT advisory company, estimated that there were over 200 billion lines of Cobol deployed in production[5].
Today's mainframes offer capabilities that many companies truly need.. Mainframes, Floyer is quoted as saying, became smaller, faster, and cheaper. In 1988, the typical mainframe cost nearly $80,000 per MIP (millions of instructions per second). In 1998, the cost was about $5,000 per MIP. In many cases, the total cost of ownership for a mainframe is lower than other computing platforms.. Touting its latest mainframe in a February 2008 press release, IBM asserted that the System z10 incorporates quad-core processors designed to be 50 percent faster than its System z9 predecessor, and is the equivalent of approximately 1,500 x86 servers with an 85 percent smaller footprint and energy costs.
556 ł.M.Kwiatkowski,C.Verhoef/ScienceofComputerProgramming98(2015)551–588 two terms: MIPS and MSUs. Although mainframe usage measures are colloquially called MIPS, and often used as a rule of thumb for cost estimation, the actual measure is expressed by means of MSUs. In the Cobol environments alone, which are estimated to process approximately 75% of all production transactions, the growth is also omnipresent [4]. In 2005 experts at Ovum, an IT advisory company, estimated that there were over 200 billion lines of Cobol deployed in production[5].
The problem, according to Gartner and Ovum, is that most large mainframe users see their processing power consumption increase by 15-20% annually in terms of million instructions per second (MIPS). The additional hardware and software cost of purchasing every additional MIPS is around £2,500. According to Phil Jones, chief technology officer at Shoden Data Systems UK, lowering z-series mainframe costs often comes down to reviewing the organisation's mainframe applications. He suggested calling for an audit of the top 50 applications in terms of MIPS used.
So for example, if we look at the insurance industry, the average IT cost of processing an insurance claim in a mainframe heavy environment is approximately $56, which is $36 less than the processing cost in a predominately distributed server environment. And with consumer product companies and retailers, we found the IT cost per SKU in a medium-size small company is about $227. You look at the server heavy environment that bumps up to about $252. And compared to a mainframe heavy environment, it’s about $184.
According to market watchers at Gartner, the current cost of mainframe MIPS -- millions of instructions per second, the most common measure of mainframe performance -- is now two-thirds of what it was in 2001. That marks an average price/performance improvement of nearly 10 percent a year.. Touting its latest mainframe in a February 2008 press release, IBM asserted that the System z10 incorporates quad-core processors designed to be 50 percent faster than its System z9 predecessor, and is the equivalent of approximately 1,500 x86 servers with an 85 percent smaller footprint and energy costs.
organizations that exhibit more of a Mainframe bias versus their peers (more MIPS per $1M revenue than average for their sector) ultimately exhibit lower total infrastructure costs (all platforms, storage, and network) than peers that exhibit a distributed Server bias (more servers per $1M revenue) for their sector. And with consumer product companies and retailers, we found the IT cost per SKU in a medium-size small company is about $227. You look at the server heavy environment that bumps up to about $252. And compared to a mainframe heavy environment, it’s about $184.
Considering the hardware cost per MIPS is around $1500 to $3000 per year. For an average MIPS capacity of 2000 MIPS, the hardware MIPS cost alone will come to WHOPPING $3M to $6M Dollars annually! About Hexaware Hexaware is a leading global provider of IT and BPO services. The company has achieved leadership position in domains such as Banking, Financial Services, Insurance, Transportation, Logistics and HR-IT solutions.