Simple sugars are called monomers which is mono saccharides.The mono saccharides for carbohydrates are glucose, fructose and glactose. Carbohydrates can also be Di saccharide … s which is sucrose, lactose. 1 Understanding What Simple Sugars Are Fructose, glucose, refined table sugar, and high-fructose corn syrup are all examples of simple sugars. 2  These are simple carbohydrates that consist of one or two sugars.
Monomers are the basic building blocks of larger organic molecules. Monosaccharides are the monomers that make up carbohydrates. Glucose is an example of a monosaccharide. Glycerol and fatty acids are the monomers that make up lipids. Nucleotides are the monomers that make up nucleic acids. Amino acids are the monomers that make up proteins.
A monomer carbohydrate, which is a monosaccharide, would be something like glucose, one molecule of a simple sugar. A disaccharide would be sucrose. 1 Understanding What Simple Sugars Are Fructose, glucose, refined table sugar, and high-fructose corn syrup are all examples of simple sugars. 2  These are simple carbohydrates that consist of one or two sugars.
A monomer carbohydrate, which is a monosaccharide, would be something like glucose, one molecule of a simple sugar. A disaccharide would be sucrose. A polymer carbohydrate, or … polysaccharide, would be any starch, which is chains of monosaccharides. 21 people found this useful. Simple sugars are called monomers which is mono saccharides.The mono saccharides for carbohydrates are glucose, fructose and glactose. Carbohydrates can also be Di saccharide … s which is sucrose, lactose.
Monomers are similar identical units covalently bonded to each other to from polymers. The monomer of carbohydrates are monosaccharides. Carbohydrates are polymers so its monomer is a simple sugar called monosaccharide. Simple sugars are called monomers which is mono saccharides.The mono saccharides for carbohydrates are glucose, fructose and glactose. Carbohydrates can also be Di saccharide … s which is sucrose, lactose.
A monomer is a small molecular subunit that can be combined with similar subunits to form larger molecules. In living systems, like our own bodies, these larger molecules include carbohydrates, lipids, nucleic acids and proteins. Glucose is an example of a monosaccharide. Glycerol and fatty acids are the monomers that make up lipids. Nucleotides are the monomers that make up nucleic acids. Amino acids are the monomers that make up proteins.
Monomers are similar identical units covalently bonded to each other to from polymers. The monomer of carbohydrates are monosaccharides. Carbohydrates are polymers so its mono … mer is a simple sugar called monosaccharide. + 60 others found this useful. 1 Understanding What Simple Sugars Are Fructose, glucose, refined table sugar, and high-fructose corn syrup are all examples of simple sugars. 2  These are simple carbohydrates that consist of one or two sugars.
Carbohydrates have the general molecular formula CH 2 O, and thus were once thought to represent hydrated carbon. However, the arrangement of atoms in carbohydrates has little to do with water molecules. Starch and cellulose are two common carbohydrates. Both are macromolecules with molecular weights in the hundreds of thousands. Both are polymers (hence  polysaccharides ); that is, each is built from repeating units, monomers, much as a chain is built from its links. The monomers of both starch and cellulose are the same: units of the sugar glucose. 
Glucose monomers can be put together to make starch and glycogen. Plants store energy as starch, while animals store it as glycogen. Structural carbohydrates, such as cellulose in plant cell walls and chitin in the exoskeleton of insects, are also made of glucose monomers. Glucose is an example of a monosaccharide. Glycerol and fatty acids are the monomers that make up lipids. Nucleotides are the monomers that make up nucleic acids. Amino acids are the monomers that make up proteins.