The Eggs. 1  Before incubation guinea fowl eggs can be stored for up to 7 days. 2  When storing guinea fowl eggs before incubating, make sure that they are kept at a constant temperature of 18-20 degrees Celsius or 64.5-68 degrees Fahrenheit. 3  Make sure the stored guinea fowl eggs are turned daily before they are incubated. 1 The final day of guinea fowl rotation is day 25 when the eggs no longer need to be turned. 2  When egg turning stops, the automatic egg timer can be removed. 3  A day or two before the scheduled hatching of the guinea fowl eggs, add clean water to all the troughs to raise the humidity. 4  Keep a daily record of incubator data.
Guinea Fowl Hatching Tips. Place eggs in incubator with the small end facing down. The incubation period for a guinea fowl egg to hatch is 28 days. The length of the incubation period can vary between 26 and 30 days, if the temperature or humidity is off a bit in the incubator. Don’t remove the keets from the incubator until they are dry. Then move the keets to a brooder with water and chick crumbs as soon as possible. Discard any unhatched guinea fowl eggs after four days. Always remember to thoroughly clean and disinfect the incubator after each set of eggs have hatched.
Hatching. 1  When the guinea fowl eggs start to pip allow 24 hours for the hatch to complete. 2  Most guinea fowl eggs will hatch within the incubation period, but sometimes weaker guinea fowl chicks (keets) may hatch a day or two later. 3  Only remove the keets when they are dry. 1 The final day of guinea fowl rotation is day 25 when the eggs no longer need to be turned. 2  When egg turning stops, the automatic egg timer can be removed. 3  A day or two before the scheduled hatching of the guinea fowl eggs, add clean water to all the troughs to raise the humidity. 4  Keep a daily record of incubator data.
Set the guineafowl eggs in the incubator and incubate for 28 days. Turn the eggs repeatedly while incubating, up until three days right before the eggs are set to hatch (e.g. day 23-24). Turn the eggs by hand, or use an automatic egg turner in your incubator. If incubating and hatching guinea eggs and turning by hand, turn the eggs three or five times a day. Raising keets: Feed baby guineas chick starter as well as cracked grain. Feed them by hand to get them used to eating out of your hand and make them tame
The eggs will hatch in four weeks. You may also use a broody chicken hen, such as a silkie hen, to sit on your fertile guineafowl eggs and hatch them. Additionally, use an artificial, mechanical incubator to hatch the guinea eggs. Turn the eggs repeatedly while incubating, up until three days right before the eggs are set to hatch (e.g. day 23-24). Turn the eggs by hand, or use an automatic egg turner in your incubator. If incubating and hatching guinea eggs and turning by hand, turn the eggs three or five times a day.
1 Before incubation guinea fowl eggs can be stored for up to 7 days. 2  When storing guinea fowl eggs before incubating, make sure that they are kept at a constant temperature of 18-20 degrees Celsius or 64.5-68 degrees Fahrenheit. 3  Make sure the stored guinea fowl eggs are turned daily before they are incubated. 1 The final day of guinea fowl rotation is day 25 when the eggs no longer need to be turned. 2  When egg turning stops, the automatic egg timer can be removed. 3  A day or two before the scheduled hatching of the guinea fowl eggs, add clean water to all the troughs to raise the humidity. 4  Keep a daily record of incubator data.
Collect the guinea fowl eggs. You can collect eggs up to seven days before placng them in the incubator. Keep them at room temperature during this time at about 70 to 75 degrees. Use a dry, soft cloth to wipe away any dirt or droppings. As the temperature and humidity requirements of guinea fowl eggs are the same as those of chickens, some backyard enthusiasts opt to hatch eggs under a broody chicken.
Hatching Guinea Fowl. When the guinea fowl eggs start to pip, allow 24-48 hours for the hatch to finish. Most guinea fowl eggs will hatch within a day or so, but sometimes weaker guinea fowl chicks (keets) may hatch a day or two later. Don’t remove the keets from the incubator until they are dry. Then move the keets to a brooder with water and chick crumbs as soon as possible. Discard any unhatched guinea fowl eggs after four days. Always remember to thoroughly clean and disinfect the incubator after each set of eggs have hatched.
1 Even though guinea fowl and chickens have similar hatching requirements, do not incubate eggs of each species together. 2  Chickens hatch in 21 days; guinea fowl take 28 days. 3  The humidity and ventilation changes needed for your chickens to hatch can cause mortality for the unhatched guinea fowl eggs. As the temperature and humidity requirements of guinea fowl eggs are the same as those of chickens, some backyard enthusiasts opt to hatch eggs under a broody chicken.
Guinea fowl hens often abandon their nests before their eggs hatch, making it necessary to hatch the eggs by other means. As the temperature and humidity requirements of guinea fowl eggs are the same as those of chickens, some backyard enthusiasts opt to hatch eggs under a broody chicken.