Carrickfergus Castle is a Norman castle in Northern Ireland, situated in the town of Carrickfergus in County Antrim, on the northern shore of Belfast Lough. It appears first in the official English records in 1210 when King John laid siege to it and took control of what was then Ulster's premier strategic garrison. Following its capture, constables were appointed to command the castle and the surrounding area.
Carrickfergus-Castle-w320x2-v3.jpg. There are few buildings in Ireland with such long, well chronicled and fascinating histories as Carrickfergus Castle. John de Courcy started building the castle in the twelfth century after arriving from Dublin determined to establish for himself the earldom of Ulster. Carrickfergus Castle first appears in the official English records in 1210 when the notorious King John laid siege to and took control of Ulster’s premier strategic garrison. De Lacy fled the castle before the arrival of John, and the castle came under the control of a constable.
With a lot of attractions and greenery all around Northern Ireland has become a famous place for tourists. Carrickfergus Castle is a wonderful and we just loved the beauty and it is situated on the northern area of the Belfast Lough. Omagh is an Irish town in this area and it depicts a lot about the history. Pingback: How to plan a trip to Carrickfergus Castle (In Ireland) - Click How To-Click How To. Hello, I´d like to book a visit of 45 tourists for the 20th of August at 10:00.We´re from the Czech Republic.Thank you very much for your reply.
Carrickfergus was the administrative centre for Carrickfergus Borough Council, before this was amalgamated into the Mid and East Antrim District Council in 2015, and forms part of the Belfast Metropolitan Area. It is also a townland of 65 acres, a civil parish and a barony. The town is the subject of the classic Irish folk song  Carrickfergus , a 19th-century translation of an Irish-language song (Do Bhi Bhí Bean) uasal From, munster which begins with the, Words i Wish i was In.. c
Carrickfergus (from Irish: Carraig Fhearghais, meaning rock of Fergus), known locally and colloquially as  Carrick , is a large town in County Antrim, Northern Ireland. It is located on the north shore of Belfast Lough, 11 miles (18 km) from Belfast. The town is the subject of the classic Irish folk song  Carrickfergus , a 19th-century translation of an Irish-language song (Do Bhi Bhí Bean) uasal From, munster which begins with the, Words i Wish i was In.. c
Carrickfergus Castle, County Antrim. The mighty stronghold of Carrickfergus, once the centre of Anglo-Norman power in Ulster, is a remarkably complete and well-preserved early medieval castle that has survived intact despite 750 years of continuous military occupation.
visitor information. Directions to Carrickfergus Castle: By train: Carrickfergus Castle is a short walk from Carrickfergus Train Station-services run from Belfast. By Car: Carrickfergus is 20 miles from Belfast and can be reached via the M2/M5/A2.
Carrickfergus Castle is a self-guiding facility. Information boards around the Castle allow you to explore this historic monument at your leisure whilst getting an insight into the history of the site. Pingback: How to plan a trip to Carrickfergus Castle (In Ireland) - Click How To-Click How To. Hello, I´d like to book a visit of 45 tourists for the 20th of August at 10:00.We´re from the Czech Republic.Thank you very much for your reply.
It was strategically useful, with 3/4 of the castle perimeter surrounded by water (although in modern times only 1/3 is surrounded by water due to land reclamation). Today it is maintained by the Northern Ireland Environment Agency as a state care historic monument, at grid ref: J4143 8725. It appears first in the official English records in 1210 when King John laid siege to it and took control of what was then Ulster's premier strategic garrison. Following its capture, constables were appointed to command the castle and the surrounding area.
Carrickfergus Castle is a Norman castle in Northern Ireland, situated in the town of Carrickfergus in County Antrim, on the northern shore of Belfast Lough. 