Among vertebrates there are three major groups of ganglia: 1  Dorsal root ganglia (also known as the spinal ganglia) contain the cell bodies of sensory (afferent) nerves. 2  Cranial nerve ganglia, contain neurons of the cranial nerves. 3  Autonomic ganglia contain the cell bodies of autonomic nerves. However, in the brain (part of the central nervous system), the  basal ganglia , or basal nuclei, is a group of nuclei interconnected with the cerebral cortex, thalamus and brainstem, associated with a variety of functions: motor control, cognition, emotions, and learning.
In anatomy, a ganglion (/ˈɡaeŋɡliən/ ˈɡæŋɡLIəN-gang-glee; ən plural) ganglia is a nerve cell cluster or a group of nerve cell bodies located in the autonomic nervous. System ganglia house the cell bodies of afferent. nerves However, in the brain (part of the central nervous system), the  basal ganglia , or basal nuclei, is a group of nuclei interconnected with the cerebral cortex, thalamus and brainstem, associated with a variety of functions: motor control, cognition, emotions, and learning.
Ganglia often interconnect with other ganglia to form a complex system of ganglia known as a plexus. Ganglia provide relay points and intermediary connections between different neurological structures in the body, such as the peripheral and central nervous systems. However, in the brain (part of the central nervous system), the  basal ganglia , or basal nuclei, is a group of nuclei interconnected with the cerebral cortex, thalamus and brainstem, associated with a variety of functions: motor control, cognition, emotions, and learning.
2. [pl.] celiac ganglia. sensory ganglion any of the ganglia of the peripheral nervous system that transmit sensory impulses; also, the collective masses of nerve cell bodies in the brain subserving sensory functions. simple ganglion a cystic tumor in a tendon sheath. A ganglion is a non-cancerous cyst filled with a thick, jelly-like fluid. Ganglions can develop on or beneath the surface of the skin and usually occur between the ages of 20 and 40. Most ganglions develop on the hand or wrist.
In anatomy, a ganglion (/ˈɡaeŋɡliən/ ˈɡæŋɡLIəN-gang-glee; ən plural) ganglia is a nerve cell cluster or a group of nerve cell bodies located in the autonomic nervous. system However, in the brain (part of the central nervous system), the  basal ganglia , or basal nuclei, is a group of nuclei interconnected with the cerebral cortex, thalamus and brainstem, associated with a variety of functions: motor control, cognition, emotions, and learning.
1. ganglion-an encapsulated neural structure consisting of a collection of cell bodies or neurons. autonomic ganglion-any of the ganglia of the autonomic system whose unmyelinated fibers innervate the internal organs. nervous system, systema nervosum-the sensory and control apparatus consisting of a network of nerve cells. neural structure-a structure that is part of the nervous system. 
Ganglia. Definition. noun, singular: ganglion. (neuroanatomy) Mass of nerve tissue; a group of nerve cell bodies, especially nerve cells external to the brain or spinal cord. Supplement. In vertebrates the ganglia are located outside the brain or spinal cord. There are two major groups of ganglia: 1  dorsal root ganglia
Ganglia is a scalable distributed monitoring system for high-performance computing systems such as clusters and Grids. It is based on a hierarchical design targeted at federations of clusters. 
2. the upper of two ganglia of the vagus nerve just as it passes through the jugular foramen. Called also jugular ganglion. sympathetic ganglia aggregations of cell bodies of adrenergic neurons of the sympathetic nervous system; these ganglia are arranged in chainlike fashion on either side of the spinal cord. A ganglion is a non-cancerous cyst filled with a thick, jelly-like fluid. Ganglions can develop on or beneath the surface of the skin and usually occur between the ages of 20 and 40. Most ganglions develop on the hand or wrist.