Symptoms of thoracic sprain may include muscle spasms, pain that radiates to different zones of the body, stiffness, headaches, digestive issues, rib pain, and limited range of motion. Typically, conservative treatment of thoracic strain is effective. This causes pressure on the spinal cord and pain to the patient. The most common symptom of a ruptured disc is sciatica, a sharp pain from the buttocks to the back of one leg. Other symptoms include weakness and tingling in one arm or leg, the loss of bladder/bowel control, or a burning neck pain.
The symptoms of a true herniated disc may not include back pain at all! The symptoms of a herniated disc come from pressure on, and irritation of, the nerves. In the thoracic spine area, this can include total paralysis of the legs. The symptoms of a herniated disc in the thoracic area usually include: 1  Pain that travels around the body and into one or both legs. 2  Numbness or tingling in areas of one or both legs. 3  Muscle weakness in certain muscles of one or both legs. 4  Increased reflexes in one or both legs that can cause spasticity in the legs. In the thoracic area, there is very little extra space around the spinal cord. When a herniated disc occurs in the thoracic spine it can be extremely serious. In some cases, the first sign of the herniated disc is paralysis below the waist.
Thoracic strain may occur when ligaments become torn or damaged within the cervical spine (the upper back). When excessive force is applied to a joint, the ligaments that hold the bones together may become torn or damaged. The seriousness of the sprain depends on how badly the ligaments are torn. This causes pressure on the spinal cord and pain to the patient. The most common symptom of a ruptured disc is sciatica, a sharp pain from the buttocks to the back of one leg. Other symptoms include weakness and tingling in one arm or leg, the loss of bladder/bowel control, or a burning neck pain.
Thoracic Strain. A Few Facts About Thoracic Strain. Thoracic strain involves the muscles of the mid and upper back. To understand what constitutes a thoracic strain it may be helpful to explain a few things about the part of the body under discussion. A Thoracic Strain Is Not Common-Short of suffering trauma as the result of a serious accident, damage to the thoracic muscles are not particularly common. A thoracic strain, when it does occur is most often mild, which is not to say that it does not cause any discomfort. A low level injury to the back can be very uncomfortable, even quite painful, even tough the nature of the injury may not be particularly serious
Cervical strain, also known as neck strain, is an irritation and spasm of the upper back muscles and neck. These muscles support the head and allow the neck to move. When ligaments within the neck become torn or damaged, a strain becomes the result. This causes pressure on the spinal cord and pain to the patient. The most common symptom of a ruptured disc is sciatica, a sharp pain from the buttocks to the back of one leg. Other symptoms include weakness and tingling in one arm or leg, the loss of bladder/bowel control, or a burning neck pain.
Anatomy of the Upper Back. Upper BackPain Videos. The word thoracic means pertaining to the chest, and the thoracic spine (also called the upper back or mid-back) is the portion of the spinal column that corresponds to the chest area (Figure 1). 1  Twelve vertebrae in the middle of the spine with ribs attached make up the thoracic spine. Although upper back pain is not a very common spinal disorder, it can cause significant discomfort and pain when it does occur. The most common causes of upper back pain are muscular irritation (myofascial pain) and joint dysfunction.
It pertains to the thorax... But you can use it as a thoracic spine, thoracic surgery, thoracic cavity, thoracic outlet syndrome, thoracic spine pain, thoracic vertebrae, thoracic medicine, thoracic surgeons, thoracic strains, sprain thoracic, or thoracic spine disorder; it's pretty self explanatory. The thoracic spine is from the base of the neck to the bottom of the rib cage. All the thoracic vertebrae-all 12 have ribs attached. The curve the thoracic spine has is call … ed the thoracic curve, or kyphosis. It is normal to have a curve but if the curve is excessive or twists to the side it is abnormal.
A thoracic strain therefore is one affects the muscles of the upper back. One can also suffer a thoracic sprain, which is a different situation, although in mild cases it can sometimes be difficult to distinguish between the two. A Thoracic Strain Is Not Common-Short of suffering trauma as the result of a serious accident, damage to the thoracic muscles are not particularly common. A thoracic strain, when it does occur is most often mild, which is not to say that it does not cause any discomfort. A low level injury to the back can be very uncomfortable, even quite painful, even tough the nature of the injury may not be particularly serious