Most immunocompromised people should be vaccinated against influenza and other infections, according to new guidelines from the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA), published online December 5 in Clinical Infectious Diseases. The goal of presenting these guidelines is to decrease morbidity and mortality from vaccine preventable infections in immunocompromised patients, the authors write. Vaccination rates for immunocompromised patients have been low historically, in part because physicians may be concerned about safety and efficacy.
Immunocompromised persons should receive HBIG for the same indications (perinatal, needlestick, or sexual exposure to a person positive for hepatitis B surface antigen) and in the same doses as immunocompetent persons. The HB vaccine series should be started concurrently with HBIG treatment. Other organizations, particularly the Expanded Programme on Immunization of the World Health Organization, have made different recommendations, particularly with respect to the use of oral polio vaccine (OPV) and Bacille Calmette-Guerin (BCG) for immunocompromised persons.
Persons living in a household with immunocompromised patients at least 6 months of age should annually receive influenza vaccine, either inactivated influenza vaccine or live attenuated influenza vaccine, provided they are healthy, not pregnant, and aged between 2 and 49 years. The goal of presenting these guidelines is to decrease morbidity and mortality from vaccine preventable infections in immunocompromised patients, the authors write. Vaccination rates for immunocompromised patients have been low historically, in part because physicians may be concerned about safety and efficacy.
Frequently, the immune response of immunocompromised persons to these vaccine antigens is not as good as that of immunocompetent persons; higher doses or more frequent boosters may be required, although even with these modifications, the immune response may be suboptimal. Other organizations, particularly the Expanded Programme on Immunization of the World Health Organization, have made different recommendations, particularly with respect to the use of oral polio vaccine (OPV) and Bacille Calmette-Guerin (BCG) for immunocompromised persons.
Healthy immunocompetent persons who live with an immunocompromised patient should receive the following live vaccines based on ACIP's recommended schedule: combined measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR); rotavirus for infants two to seven months of age; varicella; and zoster (Table 1) . Not reported. Administer to persons 60 years and older; if skin lesions develop, vaccinated persons should avoid close contact with immunocompromised persons. Highly immunocompromised patients should avoid handling diapers of infants who have received rotavirus vaccine for four weeks after vaccination.
The first is a brief summary of principles for vaccinating immunocompromised persons. The second section discusses how specific immunocompromising conditions may alter recommendations for vaccination. The third section discusses each vaccine and how recommendations for use may be altered in immunocompromised persons. Other organizations, particularly the Expanded Programme on Immunization of the World Health Organization, have made different recommendations, particularly with respect to the use of oral polio vaccine (OPV) and Bacille Calmette-Guerin (BCG) for immunocompromised persons.
Corticosteroids used in greater than physiologic doses also may reduce the immune response to vaccines. Physicians should wait at least 3 months after discontinuation of therapy before administering a live-virus vaccine to patients who have received high-dose, systemic steroids for greater than or equal to 2 weeks. Other organizations, particularly the Expanded Programme on Immunization of the World Health Organization, have made different recommendations, particularly with respect to the use of oral polio vaccine (OPV) and Bacille Calmette-Guerin (BCG) for immunocompromised persons.
In addition, the guidelines include recommendations for vaccination of people living with immunocompromised patients. The recommendations cover most available vaccines, including hepatitis A; measles, mumps, and rubella; other childhood vaccinations; and those for pneumococcus and herpes zoster. The goal of presenting these guidelines is to decrease morbidity and mortality from vaccine preventable infections in immunocompromised patients, the authors write. Vaccination rates for immunocompromised patients have been low historically, in part because physicians may be concerned about safety and efficacy.
Key Points for Practice. • Vaccines should be administered before planned immunosuppression, with live vaccines given four weeks in advance and inactivated vaccines given two weeks in advance. • Immunocompetent persons who live with an immunocompromised patient can safely receive inactivated vaccines. • Varicella and zoster vaccines should not be administered to highly immunocompromised patients. Not reported. Administer to persons 60 years and older; if skin lesions develop, vaccinated persons should avoid close contact with immunocompromised persons. Highly immunocompromised patients should avoid handling diapers of infants who have received rotavirus vaccine for four weeks after vaccination.