Nerve damage can manifest itself in a variety of ways and has been linked to various autoimmune diseases like multiple sclerosis and lupus. Nerve damage may be a result of nutrient deficiencies, and once again we see that real food is really powerful in helping heal nerve damage. The list of foods that contain important nutrients critical to healing nerve damage is impressive. And Natural Home Remedies gives the full list to help you improve your health and heal nerve damage with these foods. Read the whole list of 8 Foods That Heal Nerve Damage. 
Omega-3 fatty acid rich food. Chronic low-grade inflammation might trigger nerve damage. Nerve damage might be prevented and arrested by consuming foods that obstruct the activities of pro inflammatory proteins and enzymes. Omega-3 fatty acids are powerful anti-inflammatory substances in our diet. Nerve damage and Nutritional Deficiency. Nerve damage might even develop owing to deficiency of certain nutrients. Poor diet is not the sole cause of nutritional deficiency. Certain cancers impair absorption of nutrients, leading to severe nutritional deficiency, which might eventually damage the nerve.
They can prevent nerve damage caused by chronic inflammation. Cold-water fish are the richest sources of omega-3 fatty acids. Fish oil or cod liver oil supplements can elevate the omega-3 fatty acid level in your body. Nerve damage and Nutritional Deficiency. Nerve damage might even develop owing to deficiency of certain nutrients. Poor diet is not the sole cause of nutritional deficiency. Certain cancers impair absorption of nutrients, leading to severe nutritional deficiency, which might eventually damage the nerve.
Antioxidant Foods. Nerve damage occurs when atoms, often called free radicals, interact with cell tissues and cause deterioration of the cells. Free radicals that are synthesized from oxygen are especially egregious. They not only interact with cells tissues, but also create more radicals. The nerves misfire, triggering other nerve cells, which in turn contribute to further excessive nerve cell activity. Vitamin B12 foods can help heal damaged nerves. Foods with vitamin B12 contribute to the repair and maintenance of nerve cells, and particularly the myelin sheath.
Salmon provides vitamin B12 and omega-3 fatty acids, which can help heal damaged nerves. Photo Credit Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Nerve damage results from physical trauma or from a wide variety of illnesses, diseases and medical conditions. The nerves misfire, triggering other nerve cells, which in turn contribute to further excessive nerve cell activity. Vitamin B12 foods can help heal damaged nerves. Foods with vitamin B12 contribute to the repair and maintenance of nerve cells, and particularly the myelin sheath.
With nerve damage there can be a wide array of symptoms. Which ones you may have depends on the location and type of nerves that are affected. Damage can occur to nerves in your brain and spinal cord. It can also occur in the peripheral nerves, which are located throughout the rest of your body. Autonomic nerve damage may produce the following symptoms: 1  Inability to sense chest pain, such as angina or heart attack. 2  Too much sweating (known as hyperhidrosis) or too little sweating (known as anhidrosis). 3  Lightheadedness
Vitamin B6 foods. The nervous system of the body needs vitamin B6 to function properly. It aids synthesis of neurotransmitters such as serotonin and dopamine. Insufficient vitamin B6 in the diet might cause neuropathy.Nerve damage owing to vitamin B6 is more common in alcoholics. Nerve damage and Nutritional Deficiency. Nerve damage might even develop owing to deficiency of certain nutrients. Poor diet is not the sole cause of nutritional deficiency. Certain cancers impair absorption of nutrients, leading to severe nutritional deficiency, which might eventually damage the nerve.
Nerve damage occurs when the myelin sheath that covers and protects nerves—much like the rubber encasing surrounding electrical wires—deteriorates. The nerves misfire, triggering other nerve cells, which in turn contribute to further excessive nerve cell activity. Vitamin B12 foods can help heal damaged nerves. Foods with vitamin B12 contribute to the repair and maintenance of nerve cells, and particularly the myelin sheath.
Elderly people are vulnerable to peripheral nerve damage that reduces the sensation to the feet and hands. Diabetics are more susceptible to this form of nerve damage. Nerve damage is often linked to certain autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis, lupus and inflammatory bowel disease. Nerve damage and Nutritional Deficiency. Nerve damage might even develop owing to deficiency of certain nutrients. Poor diet is not the sole cause of nutritional deficiency. Certain cancers impair absorption of nutrients, leading to severe nutritional deficiency, which might eventually damage the nerve.
In my research there are foods that cause and worsen nerve pain and some that cure and help, so using myself as a guinea pig, I’ve started on a new diet that seems simple and inexpensive. This diet is low in meat and poultry and free of artificial sweeteners and preservatives, all which can worsen nerve pain. Read on to find out how I found foods that helped me with a very painful pain condition, and hopefully you can find nerve pain relief naturally like I did.