Oaks have spirally arranged leaves, with lobate margins in many species; some have serrated leaves or entire leaves with smooth margins. Many deciduous species are marcescent, not dropping dead leaves until spring. In spring, a single oak tree produces both male flowers (in the form of catkins) and small female flowers. The common name oak may also appear in the names of species in related genera, notably Lithocarpus. The genus is native to the Northern Hemisphere, and includes deciduous and evergreen species extending from cool temperate to tropical latitudes in the Americas, Asia, Europe, and North Africa.
Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Many Americans have oak trees in their yards, but some have no idea which oak species it is. According to Savatree, around 400 oak species exist. However, according to the United States Geological Survey, only 60 are native to North America
Oak is the most common name for trees listed in the genus Quercus. There are a few species that exhibit a shrub type growth form instead of a tree form. There are both deciduous and evergreen species and some are semi-evergreen. Currently there are approximately 600 different species listed in the Quercus (Oak) genus. The tree name  Oak  is also used for the common names of some species in related genera, especially those listed in the Lithocarpus genus.
Most Common Oak Trees. Below is a list of oak tree types that are the most commonly planted. You’ll find that most oaks are massive in size and not suitable for urban or suburban landscapes. 1 It has an unusual branch structure and deeply furrowed bark that combine to keep the tree interesting in winter. 2  It grows further north and west than other white oak types. 3  Willow Oak (Q. phellos) – The willow oak has thin, straight leaves similar to those of a willow tree.
Water Oak. The water oak tree is a largely southern species, growing mostly in the upper regions of Florida and across Georgia, South Carolina, Mississippi, Louisiana and Arkansas. Water oaks feature thin bark that closely resembles peeling paint, while its leaves are teardrop-shaped and smooth with no pointed lobes. Many Americans have oak trees in their yards, but some have no idea which oak species it is. According to Savatree, around 400 oak species exist. However, according to the United States Geological Survey, only 60 are native to North America
Submit. North America is home to many oak trees. Oaks are easily distinguished by their lobed leaves and their unique seeds, the acorns. Acorns are hard, round seeds that can range, depending on the tree, climate and location, from 3/4 inch in diameter to over 1 inch in diameter. Acorns are rounded with a sharp tip. Their trunks can be several feet in diameter. The bark of the white oak is ashen-gray or white. On younger trees, the bark is scaly or platy, but older trees can have smooth areas of bark. White oak is most common at the east of the Mississippi river.
Image by ollirg. By Jackie Carroll. Oaks (Quercus) come in many sizes and shapes, and you’ll even find a few evergreens in the mix. Whether you are looking for the perfect tree for your landscape or want to learn to identify the different types of oak trees, this article can help. 1 It has an unusual branch structure and deeply furrowed bark that combine to keep the tree interesting in winter. 2  It grows further north and west than other white oak types. 3  Willow Oak (Q. phellos) – The willow oak has thin, straight leaves similar to those of a willow tree.
By Steve Nix. The term oak can be used as part of the common name of any of about 400 species of oak trees and shrubs in the genus Quercus (from Latin oak tree). 
1. Differentiate oak trees from other species. Oaks, which all fall under the genus (Quercus) are wide-spread trees found in temperate climates the world over. There are over 600 known species of Oak, with 55 found in the continental United States. With over sixty different oak species in the U.S alone and hundreds more across the globe, it can be challenging to identify oak leaves. To help narrow down a specific tree, they can be distinguished into two basic categories by leaf shape alone: red oaks and white oaks.