At the Shuttle's maximum speed of about 30,000 km/hr, it would take more than 16 years to reach Pluto.   The New Horizons spacecraft was launched by NASA in 2006 and reac … hed a new record velocity for spacecraft, more than 58,000 km/hr. It was further accelerated by a gravity assist from Jupiter in 2007. So if you know the exact distance between Earth and Pluto, you can divide the distanc … e by the speed to see how long a radio signal from Earth will take to reach there. Of course, during the year the time will vary, because the distance will vary.
Travel to Pluto might take slightly longer in the near future as Pluto will be heading toward it's aphelion (and thus distancing itself from earth) the travel time (for a spacecraft with significant scientific payload) in the near future will be somewhere around, or slightly below, ten years. The Voyager probes took about 20 years to reach the orbit of Pluto. The New Horizons spacecraft, set to reach Pluto in July 2015, will have a travel time of 10 years.
To Pluto it would be somewhere around 5.5 hours. For a spacecraft using gravity assist, it can take as little as ten years. New Horizons was launched January 19th, 2006, and should pass Pluto in 2016, on its way out to the Kuiper Belt. http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/newhorizons/main/index.html. The Voyager probes took about 20 years to reach the orbit of Pluto. The New Horizons spacecraft, set to reach Pluto in July 2015, will have a travel time of 10 years.
Pluto travels on a highly elliptical orbit around the sun. At its closest point, known as perihelion, Pluto is only 4.4 billion kilometers out. That's nearly 30 AU, or 30 times the distance from the Earth to the sun. Pluto last reached this point on September 5th, 1989. New Horizons made the fastest journey to Pluto, but it's also going to fly past the planet at 50,000 km/h. That's less time to take high resolution images. And if you wanted to actually go into orbit around Pluto, you'd need more rockets to lose all that velocity.
New Horizons launched on January 19, 2006, and it'll reach Pluto on July 14, 2015. Do a little math and you'll find that it has taken 9 years, 5 months and 25 days. The Voyager spacecraft did the distance between Earth and Pluto in about 12.5 years, although, neither spacecraft actually flew past Pluto. New Horizons made the fastest journey to Pluto, but it's also going to fly past the planet at 50,000 km/h. That's less time to take high resolution images. And if you wanted to actually go into orbit around Pluto, you'd need more rockets to lose all that velocity.
Light itself takes 4.6 hours to travel from the Earth to Pluto. If you wanted to send a signal to Pluto, it would take 4.6 hours for your transmission to reach Pluto, and then an additional 4.6 hours for their message to return to us. Let’s talk spacecraft
On the Space Shuttle. The distance from Earth to Pluto is not constant, but averages to 3.57 billion miles. The Space Shuttle orbits at 17,500 miles per hour. Therefore 205,000 hours or 8,500 days or 23 years 105 days. So if you know the exact distance between Earth and Pluto, you can divide the distanc … e by the speed to see how long a radio signal from Earth will take to reach there. Of course, during the year the time will vary, because the distance will vary.
So let me give you some context. Light itself takes 4.6 hours to travel from the Earth to Pluto. If you wanted to send a signal to Pluto, it would take 4.6 hours for your transmission to reach Pluto, and then an additional 4.6 hours for their message to return to us. Let's talk spacecraft. New Horizons made the fastest journey to Pluto, but it's also going to fly past the planet at 50,000 km/h. That's less time to take high resolution images. And if you wanted to actually go into orbit around Pluto, you'd need more rockets to lose all that velocity.
Pluto travels on a highly elliptical orbit around the Sun. At its closest point, known as “perihelion”, Pluto is only 4.4 billion kilometers out. That’s nearly 30 AU, or 30 times the distance from the Earth to the Sun. The other problem is that getting to Pluto faster means that it’s harder to do any kind of science once you reach the dwarf planet. New Horizons made the fastest journey to Pluto, but it’s also going to fly past the planet at 50,000 km/h. That’s less time to take high resolution images.
So let me give you some context. Light itself takes 4.6 hours to travel from the Earth to Pluto. If you wanted to send a signal to Pluto, it would take 4.6 hours for your transmission to reach Pluto, and then an additional 4.6 hours for their message to return to us. Let’s talk spacecraft. When New Horizons blasted off from Earth, it was going 58,000 km/h. The other problem is that getting to Pluto faster means that it’s harder to do any kind of science once you reach the dwarf planet. New Horizons made the fastest journey to Pluto, but it’s also going to fly past the planet at 50,000 km/h. That’s less time to take high resolution images.