ectoderm. the outermost of the three primitive germ layers of the embryo; from it are derived the epidermis and epidermal derivatives, such as the claws, hair and glands of the skin, the nervous system, external sense organs (eye, ear, etc.) and mucous membrane of the mouth and anus. 1  Facebook. /ec·to·derm/ (ek´to-derm) the outermost of the three primitive germ layers of the embryo; from it are derived the epidermis and epidermic tissues, such as the nails, hair, and glands of the skin, the nervous system, external sense organs and mucous membrane of the mouth and anus.ectoder´malectoder´mic.
Each layer, called a germ layer, will eventually become certain types of tissues in the adult. These layers are the endoderm and ectoderm, and in between them the mesoderm. The ectoderm, the outermost of the three germ cell layers, eventually develops into the epidermis and hair. The endoderm is so called because it is in the innermost layer of the three germ layers.
The three germ consiting of Ectoderm, mesoderm and endoderm give rise to all the organs and structures in the body. The list of structures developed from 3 primitive germ layers in given below. Developing embryo. 
Ectoderm is one of the three primary germ layers in the very early embryo. The other two layers are the mesoderm (middle layer) and endoderm (most proximal layer), with the ectoderm as the most exterior (or distal) layer. It emerges and originates from the outer layer of germ cells. The position of the ectoderm relative to the other germ layers of the embryo is governed by selective affinity, meaning that the inner surface of the ectoderm has a strong (positive) affinity for the mesoderm, and a weak (negative) affinity for the endoderm layer.
the outermost of the three primary cell layers of an embryo. The ectoderm gives rise to the nervous system; the organs of special sense, such as the eyes and ears; the epidermis and epidermal tissue, such as fingernails, hair, and skin glands; and the mucous membranes of the mouth and anus. n the outermost of the three primary cell layers of an embryo. The ectoderm gives rise to the nervous system, the organs of special sense, the epidermis, and epidermal tissues such as fingernails, hair, and skin glands.
ectoderm. the outermost of the three primitive germ layers of the embryo; from it are derived the epidermis and epidermal derivatives, such as the claws, hair and glands of the skin, the nervous system, external sense organs (eye, ear, etc.) and mucous membrane of the mouth and anus. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter. n the outermost of the three primary cell layers of an embryo. The ectoderm gives rise to the nervous system, the organs of special sense, the epidermis, and epidermal tissues such as fingernails, hair, and skin glands.
Each of the three primary germ layers will form a different set of specific organs and tissue types in the animal. The ectoderm will form the nervous system, the epithelial cells of the mammary glands, the lens of the eyes, hair, pigment cells and the epidermis of the skin. These three layers, the endoderm, the ectoderm and the mesoderm, are called the primary germ layers. After gastrulation, the cup-like embryonic stage that contains at least two distinct germ layers is called the gastrula.
A germ layer is a primary layer of cells that form during embryogenesis. The three germ layers in vertebrates are particularly pronounced; however, all eumetazoans, (animals more complex than the sponge) produce two or three primary germ layers. Germ layers [edit]. Gastrulation of a diploblast: The formation of germ layers from a (1) blastula to a (2) gastrula. Some of the ectoderm cells (orange) move inward forming the endoderm (red). Micrograph of a teratoma, a tumour that characteristically has tissue from all three germ layers. The image shows tissue derived from the mesoderm (immature cartilage-left-upper corner of image), endoderm (gastrointestinal glands-center-bottom of image) and ectoderm (epidermis-right of image). H&E stain