After you have submitted your return/declaration for a tax year you could be selected for verification or audit. If you are selected you will be notified by SARS through your chosen means of communication which could be an SMS, an email or an official letter telling you’ll be audited/verified. Top Tips: 1  Send the relevant material (supporting documents) that was used to complete your return/declaration for the tax year, and as asked for in the verification/audit letter. 2  Make sure the original letter sent by SARS is included, as it contains a unique bar-coded reference which links it to your tax records.
How long will my audit take? Audits are typically scheduled for three months from beginning to end, which includes four weeks of planning, four weeks of fieldwork and four weeks of compiling the audit report. The auditors are generally working on multiple projects in addition to your audit. HOME / FAQ /. Audits are typically scheduled for three months from beginning to end, which includes four weeks of planning, four weeks of fieldwork and four weeks of compiling the audit report.
Sars Audit-Time to Complete. I have completed our companies tax return for the 2012 tax year. There was a refund due to us for this tax year. Sars has indicated that were going to be subject to an audit. The letter indicating that we were subject to an audit was issued in March 2013. To date we have not been contacted by Sars, and our refund has also not been done. What is the time period that Sars has to advise you as to when they will be starting the audit
Context. In addition to cases being selected for audit on the basis of risk, taxpayers may also be selected for audit on a random or cyclical basis. At the start of each tax year an LBC National Audit Plan (NAP) is prepared based on compliance landscape and previous audit intervention required. Gather information. During the information gathering process information is collected to review and make a determination of the relevant identiﬁed risk. This is a key phase of the audit where a cooperative approach by taxpayers will assist in managing the audit timeframe.
The amount of time it takes for the actual audit to take place depends on the specific type of audit being performed, whether it is an individual or a business tax audit, and how thorough the records of the individual being audited are. All tax audits must be completed within 3 years of the date the tax return was filed, unless the auditor has reached a settlement of agreement with the person being audited in order to extend the amount of time granted for the investigation of the tax return.
Aside from the regular income tax audits you'll have to contend with, your chances of a Vat audit are virtually guaranteed. Remember: Vat is a self-assessment tax and you act as a kind of unofficial collection agent for SARS. When the auditors commence your Vat audit, at the forefront of their minds will be a basic aim: To ensure that outputs aren't understated and that inputs aren't overstated.
It depends! Our clients never see the full amount of the audit work because we do our planning and completion in our office (to minimise disruption) leaving only the fieldwork to be done on site. Fieldwork can take as little as 1 day for the smallest businesses. Many audited companies with turnover between £5 - £10m ought to expect us to be on site for about 5 days. Larger companies will frequently have the pleasure of our company for 2 weeks or even longer
1 Send the relevant material (supporting documents) that was used to complete your return/declaration for the tax year, and as asked for in the verification/audit letter. 2  Make sure the original letter sent by SARS is included, as it contains a unique bar-coded reference which links it to your tax records. Top Tips: 1 