If you ARE selected to serve on a jury for a trial, your service is complete at the conclusion of the trial. The average trial lasts for three to five days. Some of the municipal courts and justice of the peace courts use a pooling system. This means you are on call by the court for a period of time (4 to 8 weeks). If you served on a jury panel for a trial, you are exempt from serving for two years. If it has been more than 18 months (or two years) since your last service, you are required to appear for jury service again, regardless of how many times you have served in the past.
How often can I be summoned for jury duty? The law allows persons who have served as a juror a one (1) year exemption. If you are selected and serve on a jury for three (3) days or more, you will be excused for a period of three (3) years from the date of service. How long must I serve? Delaware County has adopted a one day-one trial system. If you are not selected to serve on a jury, you will be excused by the jury office. If you are selected, you will serve for the duration of the trial. Courthouse hours are from 8:30 AM to 4:30 PM. Jurors are expected to report by 8:30 AM and stay until excused by the Court.
Typically if you are not chosen for jury selection after one day at the courthouse then your service is done for at least one year. If you are selected to serve on a jury, after the trial is over your service is also completed for at least a year and often longer. In fact, the majority of people who report for jury service serve for just one day. Failure to Appear You must report for jury service if you are qualified and you have not been excused or had your service postponed. Any person who fails to respond may be fined up to $1,500. Carefully follow the instructions on the summons and contact the court if you need help.
It is your duty as a citizen of Broward County to serve when you have been summoned for jury service. You are not required to serve on jury duty more than once a year, so you will not receive a summons more than once in a calendar year. Sometimes you can go years without being summoned. Remember that being called for jury duty does not necessarily mean that you will actually sit on a jury. 
Be sure to bring your Summons and photo I.D. with you when you report for jury duty. Please bring a sweater or jacket since the courtrooms are often quite cool. If you have special dietary needs, you may bring your food or snacks with you. 
Jurors should be prepared to remain the entire day. The Court’s normal hours of operation are 9:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M. (8:30-5:00 in White Plains.). If summoned to jury duty in Manhattan, your service may be as long as 2 weeks, from the first day you report to the courthouse. If summoned to jury duty in White Plains, you will be on call for approximately one month. The Court’s schedule sometimes changes at the last minute. 
If you are summoned for jury duty and you go to the courthouse to serve, you are disqualified from serving for three years. Jury service means going to court and being available to be impaneled if necessary – you do not actually have to sit on a jury to receive credit for performing your jury service. 
You can postpone your service once online or by calling 800-449-2819 at least one week before your date of service. Have your juror index number (from your summons) with you when you call. Pick a date between 2 and 6 months from the date on your summons and you will be assigned the available date closest to your choice. 
No more than once in a 12-month period. This is because California has a “one-day or one-trial” jury service system. If you are not chosen to serve on a jury during your first day of service, you will be excused from any further jury service for at least a year. If you are put on a jury, you will be expected to serve until the trial’s end. In California, most jury trials are completed within a week. Then you would be excused from jury service for at least a year. If you are summoned back sooner, contact the court