• COMPOUND (noun). The noun COMPOUND has 3 senses: 1. (chemistry) a substance formed by chemical union of two or more elements or ingredients in definite proportion by weight. 2. a whole formed by a union of two or more elements or parts. 3. an enclosure of residences and other building (especially in the Orient
Ionic comes from ion as you might have guessed. An ion is a charged particle (either positive or negative), and ionic is the adjective meaning charged. An ionic bond is a chemical bond based on electrostatic attraction (the attraction of charges), and we generally associate it with the bonding of metals to non-metals. Salt, that is, table salt, is sodium chloride (NaCl), and it is an ionically bonded compound of one atom of sodium to one atom of chlorine.
Best Answer: In the simplest terms: If a compound is covalent it means that it has covalent bonds holding the substance together, in other words, the compound is formed between two non metals and involves the sharing of electrons. Report Abuse. ionic means that one element loses one or more electrons to another, and then there are electrostatic attractions between the two (or more) ions. Happens only between a metal and non-metal covalent means that 2 elements share one or more electrons, and these electrons are attracted by both nuclei.
A chemical element bonded to an identical chemical element is not a chemical compound since only one element, not two different elements, is involved. Examples are the diatomic molecule hydrogen (H 2) and the polyatomic molecule sulfur (S 8). Characteristic properties of compounds include that elements in a compound are present in a definite proportion. For example, the molecule of the compound water is composed of hydrogen and oxygen in a ratio of 2:1.water.
Ionic compound. In chemistry, an ionic compound is a chemical compound in which ions are held together in a lattice structure by ionic bonds. Usually, the positively charged portion consists of metal cations and the negatively charged portion is an anion or polyatomic ion. Thus, in an ionic bond, one 'bonder' must have a positive charge and the other a negative one. By sticking to each other, they resolve, or partially resolve, their separate charge imbalances. Positive to positive and negative to negative ionic bonds do not occur. Chemical compounds are never strictly ionic. Even the most electronegative/electropositive pairs such as caesium fluoride exhibit a degree of covalency. Similarly, covalent compounds often exhibit charge separations
Ionic Compounds Are Balanced. Table salt is an example of an ionic compound. Sodium and chlorine ions come together to form sodium chloride, or NaCl. The sodium atom in this compound loses an electron to become Na+, while the chlorine atom gains an electron to become Cl-. Together, they form a neutral compound because the ions balance each other out. This is true for all ionic compounds-the positive and negative charges must be in balance. Potassium oxide, or K2O, is another
In chemistry, an ionic compound is a chemical compound in which ions are held together in a structure by electrostatic forces termed ionic bonds. The positively charged ions are called cations and the negatively charged ions are called anions. Ionic compounds without the acidic hydrogen ion (H +), or the basic ions hydroxide (OH −) or oxide (O 2−), are also known as salts and can be formed by acid-base reactions. Ionic compounds containing hydrogen ions are classified as acids and compounds containing hydroxide or oxide ions are classified as bases.
Example: H2+O2=H2O If a compound is ionic, it means that ionic bonds are holding the substance together. In other words the compound is formed between a metal and a non metal and involves the transfer of electrons from the metal to the non mental. For example: Na+Cl=NaCl. Source(s): I'm taking AP Chem. Report Abuse. ionic means that one element loses one or more electrons to another, and then there are electrostatic attractions between the two (or more) ions. Happens only between a metal and non-metal covalent means that 2 elements share one or more electrons, and these electrons are attracted by both nuclei.
A compound is a substance formed when two or more chemical elements are chemically bonded together. Two types of chemical bonds common in compounds are covalent bonds and ionic bonds. The elements in any compound are always present in fixed ratios. 