Stanford University Salary. Stanford University average salary is $68,012, median salary is $55,000 with a salary range from $25,000 to $720,000. Stanford University salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Stanford University salary is full-time annual starting salary. Intern, contractor and hourly pay scale vary from regular exempt employee. Compensation depends on work experience, job location, bonus, benefits and other factors.
Starting salaries for new employees to the Institute are typically determined by referring to the salary range assigned to the position being filled, the individual's external job-related experience, knowledge and skills, current pay, and the salaries of other employees performing the same or similar job functions. In many cases, a new employee's starting salary is between the minimum and the first quartile of the salary range. If a new employee meets only the minimum requirements of the position, the starting salary would typically be at or near the salary range minimum.
Operating out of Stanford, Calif., Stanford University employs talent in positions ranging from Postdoctoral Research Associate to Administrative Associate. Stanford University pays its employees $73K annually on average. Your role at the company plays the largest role in compensation at Stanford University, but how long you've been working and geography affect income (to a lesser degree) as well. This overview is based on answers to PayScale's salary questionnaire. In this position, it pays to have Project Management in your toolkit; employees who claim proficiency enjoy a higher median salary of approximately $95K annually. Data Analysis is a popular skill among Stanford University workers, with around one in eight of those surveyed reporting using it on the job.
How to Apply. Stanford employs more than 10,000 staff who support our mission in a vast array of significant ways. The university recruits talent year-round and annually fills more than 1,000 staff positions, mostly full-time. 1. SEARCH.
The average Stanford Health Care salary ranges from approximately $17,280 per year for System Analyst to $150,000 per year for Registered Nurse. Average Stanford Health Care hourly pay ranges from approximately $9.33 per hour for Clinic Nurse to $32.00 per hour for Certified Medical Assistant.
Vacation. Accrue vacation time starting in the first month of regular employment, with the rate of accrual beginning at 10 days per year (for non-exempt employees) and 15 days per year (for exempt employees) and increasing according to years of service to approximately 24 days per year. From health plans to educational assistance programs, from retirement savings to time off, Stanford provides staff members with an array of benefits that increase their financial security, help them develop professionally and promote healthy, fulfilling lives.
By: Jordan Shapiro. Stanford graduates ranked ninth for median starting salary and 16th for median mid-career salary in national university rankings released by PayScale on Oct. 24. PayScale, an online resource for employers and potential employees, compiles global research about compensation. The median mid-career salary of Stanford alumni is estimated at $112,000, in ninth place behind Princeton University, Caltech and Harvey Mudd College.
Starting salaries for employees are typically determined by referring to the salary range assigned to the position being filled, the individual's job-related experience, knowledge and skills, current pay, and the salaries of other employees performing the same or similar job functions. In many cases, a new employee's starting salary is between the minimum and the first quartile of the salary range. If a new employee meets only the minimum requirements of the position, the starting salary would typically be at or near the salary range minimum.
Salary ranges at Harvard. Salary ranges within each pay grade factor in specific qualifications, skills, experience, equity in comparison to similar positions, and the external market. The salary ranges in the table below reflect base salaries paid for all positions at a given grade across the University. Typically a new hire can expect a starting salary somewhere in the lower part of the range. This amount will vary based on the position and the relevant experience of the candidate