2. Beaufort scale-a scale from 0 to 12 for the force of the wind. system of measurement, metric-a system of related measures that facilitates the quantification of some particular characteristic. Translations. Beaufort scale-an international scale of wind force from 0 (calm air) to 12 (hurricane). wind scale. calm air, calm-wind moving at less than 1 knot; 0 on the Beaufort scale.(wind scale) A scale that rates the force of wind from 0 to 12, a rating of 0 being absolute calm and one of 12 being hurricane force.
Beaufort wind force scale. The Beaufort scale, which is used in Met Office marine forecasts, is an empirical measure for describing wind intensity based on observed sea conditions. 
2. Beaufort scale-a scale from 0 to 12 for the force of the wind. system of measurement, metric-a system of related measures that facilitates the quantification of some particular characteristic. Translations. Beaufort scale-an international scale of wind force from 0 (calm air) to 12 (hurricane). wind scale. calm air, calm-wind moving at less than 1 knot; 0 on the Beaufort scale.n. 1. (Physical Geography) meteorol an international scale of wind velocities ranging for practical purposes from 0 (calm) to 12 (hurricane force). In the US an extension of the scale, from 13 to 17 for winds over 64 knots, is used.
Posted on September 17, 2012 by Weather Guys Editor. The Beaufort scale is a method of estimating wind speed based on the general condition of the surface of a large body of water with respect to wind waves and swell. This scale allows sailors to estimate the wind speed just by observing the state of the sea surface.
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. The Beaufort wind force scale, or simply Beaufort scale, was devised at the beginning of the 19th century (around 1805) to provide a standard measure of wind speeds for sailors. 
: a scale in which the force of the wind is indicated by numbers from 0 to 12. Beaufort scale table. See Beaufort scale defined for kids.
The Beaufort scale is a scale for measuring wind speeds. It is based on observation rather than accurate measurement. It is the most widely used system to measure wind speed today. The scale was developed in 1805 by Sir Francis Beaufort. There are twelve levels, plus 0 for no wind. From 1946 to 1970, there were also beaufort levels 13 to 17.
Beaufort Scale. The Beaufort wind scale is a standard scale, running from force 0 for calm to force 12 hurricane and above for the description of wind speed. Each value represents a specific range and classification of wind speeds with accompanying descriptions of the effects on surface features. 