1 Steam for 10 to 15 minutes, or until the zucchini are tender. 2  Transfer zucchini to a large bowl. 3  Mash the garlic and put it in the bowl with the zucchini. 4  Drizzle the olive oil into the bowl and toss until the vegetables are coated with oil and garlic. 1 Cut each one in half, then cut each half lengthwise into quarters. 2  Place zucchini and garlic into a steamer basket, then place the steamer basket into the pot. 3  Steam for 10 to 15 minutes, or until the zucchini are tender. 4
Cover the saucepan and turn the burner to medium-high so the water continues to boil gently. Steam the squash until you can easily pierce the squash with a fork or the tip of a knife. Thin slices or small chunks generally steam in 4 to 5 minutes, while a whole squash may take 10 to 12 minutes. Remove the steamer basket. 
The smaller the pieces, the more quickly they will cook. Place squash in vegetable steamer, cover and turn heat to high. Cook over boiling water 10 to 12 minutes if squash is whole, 3 to 5 minutes if cut into halves or pieces, and 18 to 22 minutes if it is sliced chayote squash. Check whether squash is done by poking with the tip of a knife and making sure it is tender. Drain well
Directions. 1  Combine sliced squash & chopped onion in a wire steamer basket, place over gently boiling water. 2  Cover, & let steam. 3  10-12 minutes, until squash is fork-tender. 4  Remove squash and onion to a large serving dish. 5  Immediately stir in margarine, pepper, and sugar. 6  Serve hot. 1 Combine sliced squash & chopped onion in a wire steamer basket, place over gently boiling water. 2  Cover, & let steam. 3  10-12 minutes, until squash is fork-tender.
1 Steam in a skillet or saucepan over water until al dente. ( 2 Time depends on the size of your squash -- usually about 4-5 minutes.). 3  Heat the butter in a saucepan over medium-high heat. 4  Saute the onions until translucent. 5  Add the steamed squash and season with salt and pepper to taste. Directions. 1  Wash and quarter the squash. 2  Steam in a skillet or saucepan over water until al dente. ( 3 Time depends on the size of your squash -- usually about 4-5 minutes.). 4  Heat the butter in a saucepan over medium-high heat.
1 Place zucchini and garlic into a steamer basket, then place the steamer basket into the pot. 2  Steam for 10 to 15 minutes, or until the zucchini are tender. 3  Transfer zucchini to a large bowl. 4  Mash the garlic and put it in the bowl with the zucchini. 1 Cut each one in half, then cut each half lengthwise into quarters. 2  Place zucchini and garlic into a steamer basket, then place the steamer basket into the pot. 3  Steam for 10 to 15 minutes, or until the zucchini are tender. 4
1 Wash and quarter the squash. 2  Steam in a skillet or saucepan over water until al dente. ( 3 Time depends on the size of your squash -- usually about 4-5 minutes.). 4  Heat the butter in a saucepan over medium-high heat. 5  Saute the onions until translucent. 6  Add the steamed squash and season with salt and pepper to taste. Directions. 1  Wash and quarter the squash. 2  Steam in a skillet or saucepan over water until al dente. ( 3 Time depends on the size of your squash -- usually about 4-5 minutes.). 4  Heat the butter in a saucepan over medium-high heat.
1 Cut squash into 1/4- to 1/2-inch slices. 2  Arrange squash slices in a single layer in a large shallow roasting pan. 3  Drizzle with olive oil and sprinkle with salt and pepper; toss to coat. 4  Broil the squash about 5 inches from the heat about 3 to 5 minutes or until the squash is just tender. 1 Preheat broiler. 2  Cut squash into 1/4- to 1/2-inch slices. 3  Arrange squash slices in a single layer in a large shallow roasting pan. 4  Drizzle with olive oil and sprinkle with salt and pepper; toss to coat. 5