In the state of Indiana, the licensing of Electrical Contractors is done on the county level instead of the state level. Within each county, the Indiana Professional Licensing Agency (which is also the Indiana Department of Fire and Building Safety) sets the rules for becoming an electrician. There may be slight differences in the content of the exam. For example, in Gary, Indiana applicants need to simply take a contractors written examination whereas in Bloomington, applicants must pass an examination before the licensing Board.
With an Indiana contractor license, you can perform electrical work without any limitations if you obtain the master level license. You can also opt for a residential electrician license that limits you to working on residential structures, but the requirements are the same for both types of licenses. Indiana does not have a statewide licensing system in place. Electrical contractors in the state are licensed at the county or city level. Electricians adhere to the National Electrical Codes and their work is overseen by the State Building Commissioner.
In order to obtain a Journeyman Electrician license, you will have to complete the necessary hours of experience and take and pass the relevant examination. You should have at least 1,000 hours per year of experience for at least 3 years in residential electrical wiring work. Alternatively, if you held a Master Electrician license but exchanged it for a Journeyman Electrician license, you may, upon application to the department, exchange your Journeyman Electrician license, for a Master Electrician license.
Applying to get your License. The costs are $50 to apply for the contractor exam and $25 for the journeyman exam. The license itself will cost $50 to $100 for the contractor and $15 to $30 for the journeyman depending on whether you get it in an even or odd numbered year. Either license is good for two years
Wisconsin Journeyman Electrician License. In order to obtain a Journeyman Electrician license, you will have to complete the necessary hours of experience and take and pass the relevant examination. You should have at least 1,000 hours per year of experience for at least 5 years in electrical construction work. Alternatively, if you held a Master Electrician license but exchanged it for a Journeyman Electrician license, you may, upon application to the department, exchange your Journeyman Electrician license, for a Master Electrician license.
Now that you have your state license, you are free to work as an electrical contractor in your state. Choose to work with a company of contractors or operate independently. 1  Job search websites have comprehensive job listings in the field of electrical work. 2  Go to job fairs to talk with companies hiring electricians. Enter an electrician apprentice program. Most states require at least two years, and in most cases up to four years, of apprenticeship with a master or licensed electrician before one can take the examination to become a licensed electrician. During an apprenticeship, one earns the title of journeyman
Note: If you have previously held an electrical journeyman's license, include issue and expiration dates of that license. Provide the name and address of your current employer. Describe your current job duties. Pay applicable licensing fees. How to Get an Electrical Journeyman's License. Electrical journeymen fuse, wire and cut instruments that allow electricity to flow into homes, ... 1  Requirements for a Journeyman License.
The State's Requirements. Indiana does not have a statewide licensing system in place. Electrical contractors in the state are licensed at the county or city level. Electricians adhere to the National Electrical Codes and their work is overseen by the State Building Commissioner.
In order to obtain a Journeyman Electrician license, you will have to complete the necessary hours of experience and take and pass the relevant examination. You should have at least 1,000 hours per year of experience for at least 5 years in industrial electrical wiring work. Alternatively, if you held a Master Electrician license but exchanged it for a Journeyman Electrician license, you may, upon application to the department, exchange your Journeyman Electrician license, for a Master Electrician license.
1. Get a state license. Most states require that you get a state license in order to practice as an electrician. The license is granted after taking an exam to demonstrate knowledge of the National Electrical Code and local electrical and building codes. Enter an electrician apprentice program. Most states require at least two years, and in most cases up to four years, of apprenticeship with a master or licensed electrician before one can take the examination to become a licensed electrician. During an apprenticeship, one earns the title of journeym