The red dye extracted from the pulp is used in an assortment of industries. Another alternate name for the achiote tree is the “lipstick tree,” a nod to the use of annatto in cosmetics. It's also used to dye textiles, although its largest use is as a food coloring. Annatto appears in preserved meats, cheeses, sweets, and numerous other foods. 
Dinodia Photos/The Image Bank/Getty Images. Annatto is the seed or extract from the achiote tree, which is indigenous to Latin and South America. Annatto is used heavily in Central and South America as a dye, medicine, and as an ingredient in many foods. Annatto is a naturally intense dye which can range in color from bright yellow to deep orange. 
Definition of ACHIOTE. : a spice made from the red seed of the annatto tree; also: the seed from which the spice is made. ADVERTISEMENT.
Achiote is a little-known herb in the western world. Central and South American natives originally used the seeds to make red body paint and lipstick. For this reason, the achiote is sometimes called the lipstick tree. In fall, the achiote fruit ripens and falls right off of the tree. The fruit itself is not edible. But the seeds inside are. The edible pulp around the seeds tastes similar to fresh pepper with a hint of nutmeg sweetness. It is commonly dried, ground and infused into oil to make a concoction called annatto.
Achiote (Bixa orellana) is a shrub or small tree originating from the tropical region of the Americas. Central and South American natives originally used the seeds to make red body paint and lipstick. For this reason, the achiote is sometimes called the lipstick tree. The tree is best known as the source of annatto, a natural orange-red condiment (also called achiote or bijol) obtained from the waxy arils that cover its seeds. Bixa orellana is a tall shrub to small evergreen tree 6–10 m (20–33 ft) high. It bears clusters of 5 cm (2 in) bright white to pink flowers, resembling single wild roses, appearing at the tips of the branches.
Other Names: Lipstick Tree. Achiote, otherwise referred to as annatto or the Lipstick tree, originated in South America and has spread in popularity to many parts of Asia. It is very popular in Philippine cooking. Grows and a dense small tree or shrub. 
Answer: Annatto is a food dye derived from the seeds of the achiote tree. Although there have been case reports of severe allergic reactions and irritable bowel syndrome-type symptoms reported, there haven’t been any comprehensive studies done to date on humans. 
Annatto (/əˈnaetoʊ/ əˈnætoʊ /or/) əˈnɑːtoʊ is an-orange red condiment and food coloring derived from the seeds of the achiote (Tree bixa). Orellana it is often used to impart a yellow or orange color to, foods but sometimes also for its flavor and. aroma The annatto tree B. orellana is believed to originate from Brazil. It was probably not initially used as a food additive, but for other purposes such as ritual and decorative body painting (still an important tradition in many Brazilian native tribes), sunscreen, and insect repellent, and for medical purposes.
Open fruit of the achiote tree (Bixa orellana), showing the seeds from which annatto is extracted. Annatto (/əˈnaetoʊ/ əˈnætoʊ /or/) əˈnɑːtoʊ is an-orange red condiment and food coloring derived from the seeds of the achiote (Tree bixa). orellana The annatto tree B. orellana is believed to originate from Brazil. It was probably not initially used as a food additive, but for other purposes such as ritual and decorative body painting (still an important tradition in many Brazilian native tribes), sunscreen, and insect repellent, and for medical purposes.