1 CostHelper readers report paying $150-$300 for a windshield replacement, at an average cost of $214. 2  WindshieldsToGo.com provides an online form to estimate the cost of windshield replacement with and without installation, based on zip code and the year, make, model and style of vehicle.
Windshield-Replacement-Cost.com. We provide online low cost auto glass repair and windshield replacement quotes without having to call or input any personal information. All of our windshields are installed with quality parts and workmanship that meet or exceed all federal safety standards.
Generally, on an average, the price ranges from $20 to $325, for repair or replacement of the windshield. The price range not only depends on the type of the damage or the type of repair, but also depends on the type of the glass you choose, type of vehicle and the brand of the service you prefer.
Front windshield replacement cost. The replacement or repair costs vary based on front or back windshield replacement. Generally, front windshield replacement costs more than back one. On an average, front or rear windshield glass costs around $300.
1 Repairing a small chip in a windshield typically costs $10-$60, depending on location and whether the work is done in a shop or as a mobile service (the technician comes to the vehicle, and typically charges slightly more than in-shop work); plus $10-$25 for each additional chip.
At Auto Glass Solutions we understand that windshield replacement and auto glass repair costs aren’t part of your budget. With escalating cost of living and lower wages it can be difficult, sometimes impossible to pay for a new window or windshield when the need arises.
1 Comprehensive auto insurance often covers windshield replacement, either with a $100-$300 deductible or with no deductible amount due, according to the Insurance Information Institute. 2  Windshield repair or replacement is typically done by a shop or mobile service specializing in auto glass work.
Cost of Windshield Replacement. Windshield repair cost is not a fixed amount. It varies depending upon the type of repair, type and severity of damage, and the auto glass service that you prefer. Sometimes, the repair can be done within a few tens of dollars while, it might go up to certain hundreds of dollars.
The replacement of a windshield may have additional costs, depending on the type of vehicle. Vehicles with special molding requirements will add up to $20 to the cost of repair. If the windshield has wipers attached, this will result in another $10 to $20 increase in