You won't believe these 10 facts about people. Arugula (Eruca vesicaria sativa) is a leafy green herb of the mustard family. Known also as rocket, Italian cress, roquette, and rucola, it has elongated dark green leaves that are lobed like the leaves of an oak. In the ground, the plant resembles a loose lettuce with long, slender leaves. Native to the Mediterranean region, arugula has been grown as a vegetable since the Roman era. The Romans ate the leaves, used the seeds to flavor oil, and made aphrodisiac and medicinal compounds from the plant. Arugula is very low in calories and is a good source of vitamins A and C, folate, calcium, and magnesium.
You can always substitute what you'd like, but look at how much arugula is used and think if that is what makes or breaks the over all flavor. Also think about texture, spinach may not be the best for the bite you're looking for. Best Answer: In stores near me, arugula is not with the lettuce--it's with the specialty organic produce. And it's pricey--about $4 for 5 ounces! (I'm growing it in my garden this year.) Substitute spinach, but add some extra black pepper to make up for it.
So what is the deal with arugula? I see it called for in so MANY recipes. . . often as a main ingredient (esp. in Cooking Light magazine) and I can't seem to ever find it in the stores here. 
Lasagna. Use arugula instead of spinach or a combination of arugula and spinach as one of your lasagna layers. In fact, try using arugula as a spinach substitute in general when you want the tenderness of spinach but with a little more bite. Pin it. Once a somewhat exotic ingredient, arugula has become mainstream. Here are just a few ways that I use arugula in my kitchen. Salads. On its own or mixed in with other greens, arugula makes a great salad. It can stand up to a stronger vinaigrette but is often paired with a sweeter balsamic, which balances well with its peppery notes.
You can find a bag of pre-washed arugula in most supermarkets these days, as well as heaped into large baskets at the farmers market. Arugula is an easy to grow salad green, making it a good home garden and window box garden choice. Its peppery taste adds extra oomph to everything from salads to soup. Here are just a few ways that I use arugula in my kitchen. Salads. On its own or mixed in with other greens, arugula makes a great salad. It can stand up to a stronger vinaigrette but is often paired with a sweeter balsamic, which balances well with its peppery notes.
get healthy living updates. All about arugula. Also known as rocket, rucola, or roquette, this peppery green has been cultivated in the Mediterranean for thousands of years. With high levels of potassium and vitamins A and C, arugula is a nutritional powerhouse. Other Great Ways to Use Arugula: 3. As a pizza topping! Make sure to put in on after the pizza has baked. 4. Use it in a pesto. It’s a fantastic (and healthy!) pasta topping, for example. You can also use it as a tasty condiment for a sandwich. Check out the recipe here. 5.
Arugula is a common addition to tossed salads. Arugula is popular in the Mediterranean region, where it's often used as a pizza topping. Peppery arugula is a good addition to a main dish salad that contains other fresh greens and grilled chicken. Native to the Mediterranean region, arugula has been grown as a vegetable since the Roman era. The Romans ate the leaves, used the seeds to flavor oil, and made aphrodisiac and medicinal compounds from the plant. Arugula is very low in calories and is a good source of vitamins A and C, folate, calcium, and magnesium.
While lacking the peppery bite of arugula, spinach will work fine. if you wanted to keep the flavor profile the same you could use a variety of bitter greens like frisee, watercress, mustard greens or even radicchio. If you want something mild and colorful then spinach is fine. Best Answer: In stores near me, arugula is not with the lettuce--it's with the specialty organic produce. And it's pricey--about $4 for 5 ounces! (I'm growing it in my garden this year.) Substitute spinach, but add some extra black pepper to make up for it.
Report Abuse. I think spinach will be a great substitute for the arugula, if you have never had the arugula in this recipe, you won't know what the difference in taste is, and it will probably be delicious, Spinach is also more nutritious and flavorful. Best Answer: In stores near me, arugula is not with the lettuce--it's with the specialty organic produce. And it's pricey--about $4 for 5 ounces! (I'm growing it in my garden this year.) Substitute spinach, but add some extra black pepper to make up for it.