brigid.quinn@uspto.gov. Josephine Garis Cochran invented the first useful dishwasher in Shelbyville, Ill., and received patent # 355,139 on December 28, 1886. Cochrane, a wealthy woman who entertained often, wanted a machine that could wash dishes faster than her servants, and without breaking them
• Women Inventors A-Z. In 1850, Joel Houghton patented a wooden machine with a hand-turned wheel that splashed water on dishes, it was hardly a workable machine, but it was the first patent. In 1886, Josephine Cochran proclaims in disgust If nobody else is going to invent a dishwashing machine, I'll do it myself.. And she did, Josephine Cochran invented the first practical (did the job) dishwasher. It was not until the 1950s, that dishwashers caught on with the general public. Josephine Cochran's machine was a hand-operated mechanical dishwasher. She founded a company to manufacture these dish washers, which eventually became KitchenAid.
Manual Dishwashers. The first dishwasher was invented in 1850 by Joel Houghton. The machine was wooden and had a hand-turned wheel. The wheel simply splashed water over the dishes in the machine. Posted by Staff Writer in Dishwashers. ANSWER: The first commercially available power-moded dishwasher was invented by Josephine Cochrane in 1886. More Info: Dishwashers are one of the most common home appliances; however, many people do not know how these amazing machines transformed. The history of the dishwasher is actually quite lengthy
Inventions That Changed The World. The first dishwasher was invented in America in 1850, Joel Houghton patented a wooden machine with a hand-turned wheel that splashed water on dishes, it was hardly a workable machine, but it was the first patent. And she did, Cochrane invented the first practical dishwasher. Cochrane had expected the public to welcome the new invention, which she unveiled at the 1893, World' Fair, but only the hotels and large restaurants were buying her ideas. Cochrane's machine was a hand-operated mechan
The Automatic Dishwasher. Inspired by Joel Houghton's 1850 machine that simply splashed water on dishes, Josephine Cochran decided to invent something more efficient for dishwashing (34). In 1886, she invented the first practical dishwashing machine that was a hand operated, mechanical dishwashing machine