Habitat: The exact range of the capuchin monkey is not known, although it is assumed that they inhabit a large range in Brazil and other parts of Latin America. Capuchin monkeys usually live in large groups (10 - 35 individuals) within the forest, although they can easily adapt to places colonized by humans.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Most monkeys live in the rainforests of the world. The monkeys live in the rainforest because, they are more comfortable in the trees and there are more fruits to eat. 
Squirrel monkeys live in primary and secondary forests in countries such as Costa Rica, Brazil, Panama and Guyana. A primary forest is one filled with old growth, and a secondary forest is one recovering from devastation, such as from a fire or massive tree harvesting. Squirrel monkeys eat mostly fruits and insects. Tom Brakefield/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Squirrel monkeys play an important ecosystem role in Central and South America; they're an important part of the diet of some predators, and they control populations of insects by preying on them. Squirrel monkeys spend most of their time playing and foraging in the trees, but they sometimes head down to the ground
Squirrel monkey Facts. Squirrel monkey is one of the smallest members of the primate group. There are five species of squirrel monkey that can be found in Central and South America. Squirrel monkeys live in dense tropical rainforests, wetlands, marshes and mangrove forests. Habitat loss is the main threat to the survival of squirrel monkeys. As a result of increased agriculture and shrinking of the territory of squirrel monkeys, they frequently invade plantations. 
Although the majority of monkeys live in tropical rain forests, some have adapted to live in the open land of the savannas. The patas monkey, the vervet monkey and some species of baboon all live primarily in open brush, and each has evolved to their unconventional primate habitat in different ways. Baboons, some of the largest monkeys in the world, also form complex troops of up to hundreds of baboons. Four species live on the savannas. These four species -- the Guinea, chacma, olive and yellow baboons -- are often referred to as a singular species, the savanna baboon, by some biologists.
Anatomy: Agile and lean, capuchin monkeys weigh only 3 - 9 pounds (1.36 - 4.9 kilograms). The fur of the capuchin monkey varies, but is most commonly seen with cream or light tan coloring around the face, neck and shoulders. The rest of its coat is dark brown. The exact range of the capuchin monkey is not known, although it is assumed that they inhabit a large range in Brazil and other parts of Latin America. Capuchin monkeys usually live in large groups (10 - 35 individuals) within the forest, although they can easily adapt to places colonized by humans.
Monkey Habitat and Distribution. The distribution for the Monkey covers may regions around the world. They tend to live in forest regions where they have lots of trees around them. Some of them live in the savannahs though or in the mountain regions. There are species of Monkeys that only live in trees. Others live in the trees as well as on land. Monkeys move around their home range a great deal. They travel daily to look for food.