Effects of substituents on the acidity of phenols: Existence of electron attracting group, (for example-NO2, -X, - NR, -CN, -CHO, -COOH) on the benzene ring increases the acidity of phenol since it enables the ring to draw much more electrons from the phenoxy oxygen and so releasing easily the proton.
The acidic nature of phenol is due to the formation of stable phenoxide ion in solution. The phenoxide ion is stable due to resonance. The negative charge is spread throughout the benzene ring. This charge delocalisation is a stabilising factor in the phenoxide ion and increase acidity of phenol.
Effects of substituents on the acidity of phenols: Existence of electron attracting group, (for example-NO 2, -X, - NR, -CN, -CHO, -COOH) on the benzene ring increases the acidity of phenol since it enables the ring to draw much more electrons from the phenoxy oxygen and so releasing easily the proton.
Effects of substituents on the acidity of phenols: Presence of electron attracting group, (e.g. , -NO 2, -X, -NR 3 + , -CN, -CHO, -COOH)on the benzene ring increases the acidity of phenol as it enables the ring to draw more electrons from the phenoxy oxygen and thus releasing easily the proton.
As the acidic nature of phenol is due to the resonance stabilization of phenate compare to phenol. Therefore the presence of any substituent on aromatic ring which can stabilized the phenoxide ion will tend to increases the acidity of phenol.
Related Discussions:- Effects of substituents on the acidity of phenols, Assignment Help, Ask Question on Effects of substituents on the acidity of phenols, Get Answer, Expert's Help, Effects of substituents on the acidity of phenols Discussions.
The effect of substituents on phenols is not as straightforward as with aliphatic acids. Phenol itself is weakly acidic, with a pK a of 9.95. Above is shown phenol (left), and the phenolate ion (right).
Electron donating groups like amino (-NH 2), alkyl (-R) decreases the acidity of phenol. For example, cresol or methylphenols are less acidic compare to phenol due to positive inductive effect as well as hyperconjugation of methyl group.
The gas-phase acidities of meta-and para-substituted phenols have been calculated at the B3LYP/6-311+G, MP2/6-311+G, MP2/6-311++G, and MP2/6-311+G(2df,2pd) theoretical levels. The larger basis sets give the more satisfactory DeltaHacid values that are correlated with the observed acidities with a slope close to unity.