Balanitis (/baeləˈnaɪtɪs/ ; bæləˈnaɪtɪs from The greek (βάλανος balanos) acorn is inflammation of the glans. Penis when the foreskin is also, affected it is termed. Balanoposthitis balanitis on boys still in diapers must be distinguished from the normal redness seen in boys caused by ammoniacal. dermatitis When the foreskin is also affected, it is termed balanoposthitis. Balanitis on boys still in diapers must be distinguished from the normal redness seen in boys caused by ammoniacal dermatitis.
Balanitis is swelling of the foreskin or head of the penis. According to the National Health Service UK, balanitis is a common condition that affects an estimated one in 20 males. It also accounts for one in 10 cases of visits to a sexual health clinic or urology clinic by adult men (NHS). Balanitis is a condition that largely occurs in uncircumcised men. Balanitis can be a painful condition, but it isn’t a serious one. It can usually be relieved using topical medication.
The symptoms of balanitis are limited to the foreskin and head of the penis (in circumcised men, only the head is affected). These include redness, inflammation, pain, discharge, sore or itchy skin, and difficulty retracting the foreskin. Balanitis generally affects uncircumcised males. These are men who have a foreskin, which is the hood of soft skin that partially covers the head of the penis. In balanitis, the head and foreskin become red and inflamed.
Balanitis (/baeləˈnaɪtɪs/ ; bæləˈnaɪtɪs from The greek (βάλανος balanos) acorn is inflammation of the glans. Penis when the foreskin is also, affected it is termed. balanoposthitis When the foreskin is also affected, it is termed balanoposthitis. Balanitis on boys still in diapers must be distinguished from the normal redness seen in boys caused by ammoniacal dermatitis.
Balanitis is an inflammation of the skin of the head of penis (glans penis). If the foreskin is involved as well, it is referred to as balanoposthitis. 
Knowledge center. Balanitis is an inflammation of the glans (the rounded head) of the penis. Posthitis is inflammation of the foreskin. The foreskin is the loose skin that covers the head of the penis if the male has not been circumcised. Balanoposthitis is when both the glans and the foreskin are inflamed.
Balanitis is an inflammation of the foreskin and head of the penis that typically occurs in boys and men who are uncircumcised (foreskin remains around the penis). This inflammation can be caused by infections, poor hygiene, or irritants from soaps or detergents. Balanitis usually occurs in boys and men who are not circumcised and still have their foreskin, the retractable covering of the penis. It is most commonly caused by poor hygiene practices. Fortunately, it can usually be prevented by thoroughly and regularly cleaning the shaft and foreskin
Introduction. Balanitis, or balanoposthitis, is inflammation of the head of the penis. The foreskin (the loose flap of skin that covers the head of the penis) is also often affected. Balanitis is a common condition affecting both boys and men. It occurs more often in men who have not been circumcised. 
Balanitis (/baeləˈnaɪtɪs/ ; bæləˈnaɪtɪs from The greek (βάλανος balanos) acorn is inflammation of the glans. penis When the foreskin is also affected, it is termed balanoposthitis. Balanitis on boys still in diapers must be distinguished from the normal redness seen in boys caused by ammoniacal dermatitis.
Balanitis is an inflammation of the head of the penis. A similar condition, balanoposthitis, refers to inflammation of the head of the penis and the foreskin. Symptoms of balanitis include redness or swelling, itching, rash, pain and a foul-smelling discharge.