Forensic Scientist Education Requirements. A minimum of a bachelor's degree in natural science or forensic science is required for working in this field. Some labs might require a master's degree in forensic science for more advanced positions, such as lab technician leader or supervisor.
If you enjoy science and want to help solve crimes, this job could be perfect for you. This type of scientist prepares traces of physical evidence for use in courts of law. Before you can start as a trainee you are likely to need an honours degree in a biology or chemistry-related subject.
A: In order to become a forensic scientist, you will need an education in forensic sciences. If you are just looking for an entry level in the criminal justice sector, you can go for a 6 month certificate or diploma. A 4 year bachelor's degree can also get you entry-level positions with forensic departments.
As a forensic scientist, your main role would be to look for evidence to link a suspect with a crime scene. However, your duties could vary depending on your specialism, and may include some or all of the following: 1  blood grouping and DNA profiling. 2  analysing fluid and tissue samples for traces of drugs and poisons.
Forensic scientists apply scientific knowledge and methods, especially in chemistry and biology, to help police investigate and solve crimes. These scientific specialists collect and analyze various types of physical evidence, including blood and other body fluids; DNA; and human tissue.
You can also get into this career with a science-based degree. Degrees related to chemistry, biology, life sciences, applied sciences or medical sciences are likely to be the most appropriate, depending on the type of forensic work you want to do.
Other Qualifications. In addition to a college degree, forensic scientists need strong written and verbal communication skills. These abilities are vital, because they help forensic scientists convey complex scientific information to police investigators, attorneys, jurors and other nonscientists.
Entry-level forensic scientists usually have a bachelor's degree in forensic science or a related field, such as biology, chemistry or physics. A forensic science major typically includes those basic sciences, plus classes in pharmacology, statistics, computer modeling, biochemistry and criminal justice.
Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a forensic scientist. Get a quick view of the requirements-including degree programs, job duties and certification-to see if a career in forensic science is right for you.