| PowerPoint PPT presentation | free to view. Concrete and Masonry Construction-Portland refers to the type of cement that is universally produced by all manufacturers. ... Curing is a hydration process; therefore, ... CONCRETE-CONCRETE by Ikmalzatul Abdullah Strength Strength sufficient for structural work are obtainable but the modulus of elasticity of aerated concrete is about one tenth ... | PowerPoint PPT presentation | free to view. AAC Block Consultants-One of the leading manufacturers of AAC plant & ALC Plant in India.
Abstract. Laterite was modified with 45% sand content by dry weight and stabilized with up to 9% cement content respectively and used in the production of 330 mm 150 mm 150 mm bricks through the application of a pressure of 3 N/mm2 with a brick moulding machine. 
This will allow you to grab mortar with your trowel as you work, and not have to move around too much. 6. Mix your masonry cement, or mortar. This can be done in a wheelbarrow for small projects, or a mortar box if you don't have access to a mortar mixer or cement mixer. Basically, to mix the mortar, you will use a ratio of three parts masonry sand (builders sand, if it is very clean), to one part masonry cement. Add water to the dry materials and mix to a consistency like pudding. Too dry, and it will be difficult to set the brick in the mortar bed, too wet and the brick will sag. 
More than 15.4% cement is not recommended. It's actually rather easy to calculate these proportions. For instance, to get a 10%-cement mix, you'll need to measure out one cubic foot of portland cement for every nine cubic feet of sifted, dry soil. This isn't at all difficult to do if you can scrounge up some buckets or containers, preferably with handles, of known volume to work with. These components are defined on the basis of particle size (sand being the coarsest of the three and clay the finest). Somewhat sandy earth seems to make the best CINVA Ram blocks and the optimum soil for the bricks is made up of approximately 75% sand and only 25% silt and clay.
3. Use a shovel put the concrete into the forms. 1  Tap on the side of the forms with the brick forms filled. 2  Tapping on the top afterward will force any trapped air out from inside of the concrete. 3  Use a straight edge or 12-inch (30.5 cm) trowel to smooth off the top of the concrete level with the top of the forms. Use a shovel put the concrete into the forms. 1  Tap on the side of the forms with the brick forms filled. 2  Use a straight edge or 12-inch (30.5 cm) trowel to smooth off the top of the concrete level with the top of the forms. 3  7 Edit step.
1 The strength of your brick or block depends on the interaction of water and cement. 2  For masonry products the mix is semi dry. 3  Take a handful of mixed material and squeeze it in your palm to form a lump. 4  You should have a dryish deposit of fine material sticking to your hand. 5  If the lump crushes, the mix is too dry. 1 For masonry products the mix is semi dry. 2  Take a handful of mixed material and squeeze it in your palm to form a lump. 3  You should have a dryish deposit of fine material sticking to your hand. 4  If the lump crushes, the mix is too dry. 5  If the mix squeezes through your fingers, the material is too wet.
3 WATER. 1  The strength of your brick or block depends on the interaction of water and cement. 2  For masonry products the mix is semi dry. 3  Take a handful of mixed material and squeeze it in your palm to form a lump. 4  You should have a dryish deposit of fine material sticking to your hand. 1 For masonry products the mix is semi dry. 2  Take a handful of mixed material and squeeze it in your palm to form a lump. 3  You should have a dryish deposit of fine material sticking to your hand. 4  If the lump crushes, the mix is too dry. 5  If the mix squeezes through your fingers, the material is too wet.
3 WATER. 1  The strength of your brick or block depends on the interaction of water and cement. 2  Take a handful of mixed material and squeeze it in your palm to form a lump. 3  You should have a dryish deposit of fine material sticking to your hand. 4  If the lump crushes, the mix is too dry. 5  If the mix squeezes through your fingers, the material is too wet. 1 For masonry products the mix is semi dry
Method 1 of 2: Making Brick from Concrete. 1. Make the forms you need to use for the concrete bricks. This requires basic carpenter tools and a sheet of .75-inch (19 mm) plywood along with 2 x 4-inch (5.1 x 10.2 cm) by 8 feet (2.4 m) lumber. Use 9 x 4 x 3.5 inches (22.9 x 10.2 x 8.9 cm) for your brick dimensions. Use a shovel put the concrete into the forms. 1  Tap on the side of the forms with the brick forms filled. 2  Use a straight edge or 12-inch (30.5 cm) trowel to smooth off the top of the concrete level with the top of the forms. 3  7 Edit step.