To use the standard mileage rate for a car you own, you must choose to use it in the first year the car is available for use in your business. Then, in later years, you can choose to use the standard mileage rate or actual expenses. For a car you lease, you must use the standard mileage rate method for the entire lease period (including renewals) if you choose the standard mileage rate. To use the actual expense method, you must determine what it actually costs to operate the car for the portion of the overall use of the car that is business use.
However, if you use the car for both business and personal purposes, you may deduct only the cost of its business use. You can generally figure the amount of your deductible car expense by using one of two methods: the standard mileage rate method or the actual expense method. If you qualify to use both methods, you may want to figure your deduction both ways before choosing a method to see which one gives you a larger deduction. For a car you lease, you must use the standard mileage rate method for the entire lease period (including renewals) if you choose the standard mileage rate. To use the actual expense method, you must determine what it actually costs to operate the car for the portion of the overall use of the car that i
3. Calculate your total at the end of the year. Multiply the total number of miles traveled throughout the year by the mileage rate for each category. For instance, you may deduct 14 cents per mile when working for charitable organizations and 57.5 cents per mile traveled for business. 4. Calculate your total deduction. Add up all the deductions from the different categories to determine your total deduction. This yields a result of $140 for charitable travel and $575 for business travel, which equals a total deduction of $715.
For the current standard mileage rate, refer to Publication 463, Travel, Entertainment, Gift, and Car Expenses, or search standard mileage rates on IRS.gov. If you use the standard mileage rate, you can add to your deduction any parking fees and tolls incurred for business purposes. For a car you lease, you must use the standard mileage rate method for the entire lease period (including renewals) if you choose the standard mileage rate. To use the actual expense method, you must determine what it actually costs to operate the car for the portion of the overall use of the car that is business use.
You can claim mileage from a vehicle you use for business on your tax return. Photos.com/AbleStock.com/Getty Images. If you have to travel for work purposes in your own vehicle, you can claim the mileage on your federal income taxes. You can only claim the mileage if you are in your own automobile and not in a company vehicle
For example, in a typical week you may drive 50 miles to sales meetings and work 48 weeks in a year after vacation time. This averages 2,400 miles a year in work mileage. If you moved for a new job to another state, you can estimate the drive from your previous home location to the new home location. Many GPS direction programs provide you with a street by street mileage with the total trip summary.
If you use the standard mileage rate for a year, you cannot deduct your actual car expenses for that year. You cannot deduct depreciation, lease payments, maintenance and repairs, gasoline (including gasoline taxes), oil, insurance, or vehicle registration fees. To be eligible to claim the section 179 deduction, you must use your car more than 50% for business or work in the year you acquired it. If your business use of the car is 50% or less in a later tax year during the recovery period, you have to recapture (include in income) in that later year any excess depreciation.
For example, if your only miscellaneous deduction is $5,000 of mileage expenses in a year you report an AGI of $50,000, you must reduce the deduction by $1,000 ($50,000 times two percent). The detail of your expenses will be shown on either Form 2106 or 2106-EZ, which is used to report employee business expenses. If you don’t mind keeping receipts for every expense, you can calculate your deduction using actual expenses, including depreciation, licenses, gas, oil, tolls, lease payments, insurance, garage rent, parking fees, registration fees, repairs, and tires.
Tax Deductible Car Miles-IRS Standard Mileage Rates. It might not be a car, but it's a way to avoid high gas prices and the gas tax! If you are using your car for qualified business, medical, or charitable purposes, you can deduct your vehicle expenses. For a vehicle you own or lease, you can deduct either the actual expenses or the standard rate per mile driven. The optional standard tax deductible IRS mileage rates for the use of your car, van, pickup truck, or panel truck during 2013 are: 1  56.5 cents per mile driven for business purposes. 2  24 cents per mile driven for medical or moving purposes. 3  14 cents per mile driven in service of charitable organizations.
How to Estimate Mileage for the Tax Year. Maximizing tax deductions helps reduce the overall tax bill you might pay. The Internal Revenue Service announced a standard deduction rate increase for the tax year 2011. Deductions can be taken for business, medical, moving or volunteer mileage. This averages 2,400 miles a year in work mileage. If you moved for a new job to another state, you can estimate the drive from your previous home location to the new home location. Many GPS direction programs provide you with a street by street mileage with the total trip summary.