For this reason a study of Gothic architecture is largely a study of cathedrals and churches. A series of Gothic revivals began in mid-18th-century England, spread through 19th-century Europe and continued, largely for ecclesiastical and university structures, into the 20th century. Originating in 12th-century France and lasting into the 16th century, Gothic architecture was known during the period as Opus Francigenum (French work) with the term Gothic first appearing during the later part of the Renaissance.
There can be no doubt that the term 'Gothic' as applied to pointed styles of ecclesiastical architecture was used at first contemptuously, and in derision, by those who were ambitious to imitate and revive the Grecian orders of architecture, after the revival of classical literature. Originating in 12th-century France and lasting into the 16th century, Gothic architecture was known during the period as Opus Francigenum (French work) with the term Gothic first appearing during the later part of the Renaissance.
Gothic architecture is a style of architecture that flourished during the high and late medieval period. It evolved from Romanesque architecture and was succeeded by Renaissance architecture. Originating in 12th-century France and lasting into the 16th century, Gothic architecture was known during the period as Opus Francigenum (French work) with the term Gothic first appearing during the later part of the Renaissance.
1. Gothic architecture-a style of architecture developed in northern France that spread throughout Europe between the 12th and 16th centuries; characterized by slender vertical piers and counterbalancing buttresses and by vaulting and pointed arches. Gothic. architectural style, style of architecture, type of architecture-architecture as a kind of art form. English-Gothic, English-Gothic architecture, perpendicular style, perpendicular-a Gothic style in 14th and 15th century England; characterized by vertical lines and a four-centered (Tudor) arch and fan vaulting.
Gothic architecture is most familiar as the architecture of many of the great cathedrals, abbeys and churches of Europe. It is also the architecture of many castles, palaces, town halls, guild halls, universities and to a less prominent extent, private dwellings, such as dorms and rooms. Originating in 12th-century France and lasting into the 16th century, Gothic architecture was known during the period as Opus Francigenum (French work) with the term Gothic first appearing during the later part of the Renaissance.
Gothic architecture and art. structures (largely cathedrals and churches) and works of art first created in France in the 12th cent. that spread throughout Western Europe through the 15th cent., and in some locations into the 16th cent. Gothic Architecture Outside France. The adoption of Gothic architecture in various parts of Western Europe resulted in interesting variations and developments of the style. The cathedrals of Lincoln and Salisbury typify the early English style (late 12th–early 13th cent.).
Gothic, Gothic architecture (noun). a style of architecture developed in northern France that spread throughout Europe between the 12th and 16th centuries; characterized by slender vertical piers and counterbalancing buttresses and by vaulting and pointed arches. Gothic architecture is a style of architecture that flourished during the high and late medieval period. It evolved from Romanesque architecture and was succeeded by Renaissance architecture.
Definition of GOTHIC REVIVAL. : an artistic style or movement of the 18th and 19th centuries inspired by and imitative of the Gothic style especially in architecture. ADVERTISEMENT. infinitival.