Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Jace and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Jace and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. 
Notes: Jace is a name with American origins. It was originally a nickname for the name Jason. It is also a combination of the letters J and C. An alternate spelling of the name Jace is Jayce. Famous people named Jace include Jace Everett, singer. Football players named Jace include Jace Amaro and James Jace Sayler
Meaning of Jace. American name. In American, the name Jace means-moon.The name Jace originated as an American name. The name Jace is a unisex name and can be used for a boy or girl name (male or female). American Name Meaning-moon. Origin-America
Greek Meaning: The name Jace is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Jace is: a healing. American Meaning: The name Jace is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Jace is: a healing.
The name Jace is of American origin, and it means Nickname . It's a name commonly given to boys. 
Etymology & Historical Origin-Jace. Jace is basically a nickname for Jason which was originally derived from the Greek verb “iasthai” meaning ‘to heal.’ For more information on Jason, see Jason. As is often the case, like Max and Jack, nicknames form into independent given names in their own right. Jace is another example of this. 
Even though name Jace is not in the Top 100 baby names, the name Jace is very beautiful and will make your baby stand out from the crowd. If you think of naming your baby Jace, you should consider buying a baby name domain for your child before it is taken by someone else. If domain name Jace is not available, you can add your last name to the name Jace. Many people register for baby name domains that include their baby's first and last names.
Jace /jace/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is pronounced jayce. It is of English and Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Jace is the Lord is my salvation. Short form of Jason. Kreatif forms: Joce, Jossce. Jace is an uncommon given name for males but a somewhat popular surname for all people (#114166 out of 150436, Top 76%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Jace for boys. Jace entered the list in 1980-1989 and reached its top position of #66 in the U.S. in 2013, and is currently at #68
Meaning of the name Jace. Jace. Rating: The meaning of the name Jace is Healer. Meaning of the name can play a big role in your baby's personality, that is why it is important and also fun to find out the meaning of the name when choosing a baby name for your child. If you think of naming your baby Jace, you should consider buying a baby name domain for your child before it is taken by someone else. If domain name Jace is not available, you can add your last name to the name Jace. Many people register for baby name domains that include their baby's first and last names.