Reimbursement Services. Reimbursement Principles delivers the robust answers and prompt results essential to maximizing your product’s potential. Our experts know the industry inside and out to bring you the strategic advantages you are seeking. Medical Device Reimbursement Strategies RPI renders a comprehensive medical device reimbursement strategy to keep you up to date with important industry milestones. Our multi-...
Information security, sometimes shortened to InfoSec, is the practice of defending information from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, perusal, inspection, recording or destruction. IT security. Sometimes referred to as computer security, Information Technology security is information security applied to technology (most often some form of computer system). It is worthwhile to note that a computer does not necessarily mean a home desktop. A computer is any device with a processor and some memory.
Reimbursement Principles, Inc. RPI (Reimbursement Principles, Inc.) is a group of highly experienced and professional medical device consultants with a specialization in medical device reimbursement. Our experts know how to maximize the reimbursement potential of medical technology products throughout their life cycle. This highly anticipated coding system is now in effect and all providers of health care including physicians, hospitals, ASCs and health care professionals must begin using the ICD-10-CM/PCS code sets. The changes are massive!
Value Analysis. Reimbursement Value Analysis The way in which the reimbursement value of your medical device is determined, proven, and communicated is essential to generating success in the ... Medical Device Reimbursement Strategies RPI renders a comprehensive medical device reimbursement strategy to keep you up to date with important industry milestones. Our multi-...
Global Reimbursement Principles. This position paper of the Global Medical Technology Alliance is an internal statement of principles intended to offer participating associations a guideline for consistent nonbinding, voluntary application at a national or regional level. The principles below are intended to reflect “model principles” to ensure that the policy goals underlying the development, adoption and implementation of payment and reimbursement systems result in the best value for patients and foster innovation in the medical technology industry.
Online medical evaluations using Internet resources is a subset of telehealth that gives health providers the ability to interact with patients through a secured electronic channel. For the purposes of this policy, online medical evaluations may include communication by any secured electronic channel.  No inclusion of third party advertising and the patient’s information is not to be used for marketing.  Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI-DSS) compliant. Licensing The practice of medicine is deemed to occur in the state in which the patient is located.
12 Documentation Assessment – Question 3 • To ensure that medical record documentation is accurate, the following principles should be followed: a. Notes should be complete and legible.b. Documentation should include the date and legible identity of the clinician.c. 10 Documentation Assessment-Answer • The answer is False. It is never acceptable for the provider to include a postoperative note in the medical record before completion of the procedure. All entries in record must be timely and accurate.
Compensation for Healthcare Reimbursement is the healthcare term that refers to the compensation or repayment for health-care services. Reimbursement is being repaid or compensated for expenses already incurred or, as in the case of healthcare, for services that have already been provided. Patients assume risk as they must pay higher and higher percentages of the costs as their share. Types of Healthcare Reimbursement Methodologies This chapter discusses the fundamental concepts in healthcare reimbursement methodologies. The chapter is organized by the two major types of unit of payment: fee-for-service reimbursement or episode-of-care reimbursement