A RRIF is really a continuation of your RRSP, but with a twist: you can't make regular contributions to a RRIF only withdrawals. That s because the main purpose of a RRIF is to provide a source of ongoing retirement income. Here s how a RRIF works: Transfer assets in. The minimum withdrawal is based on a percentage of your RRIF assets and increases with your age. For example, the minimum RRIF withdrawal rate is 7.38% at the age of 71 (the last year in which you can hold an RRSP) and levels off at 20% at 94 years and over.
What is a RRIF? A RRIF is an extension of a Registered Retirement Savings Plan (RRSP). While your RRSP is used to save for your retirement, a RRIF is used to systematically draw income during your retirement.RRIFs offer the same investment options and tax-deferred growth as your RRSP. A Registered Retirement Income Fund (RRIF) allows you to gradually withdraw funds for your use today and into the future. RRIF market value on January 1 of {current year }{ } 190 – age on January 1 of current year x.
When to create a RRIF. An RRSP is required to be converted to a retirement income option such as a RRIF by December 31 of the year in which you turn 71. However, you do have the option to convert your RRSP to a RRIF at anytime before then. Also see: RRSP Strategies at age 71
Converting an RRSP to a RRIF You can convert your RRSP holdings to a RRIF at any time. However, an RRSP must be converted to a RRIF, annuity, or paid out in a lump sum by the end of the calendar year that you turn age 71. A Registered Retirement Income Fund (RRIF) allows you to gradually withdraw funds for your use today and into the future. RRIF market value on January 1 of {current year }{ } 190 – age on January 1 of current year x.
Tax Tip: Convert some of your RRSP to a RRIF at age 65 in order to take advantage of the pension income tax credit and pension income splitting with your spouse. Revised: September 08, 2015 The browser does not support JavaScript. Please access the web page using another browser. 
If RRSP savings are not put into a tax-deferred income plan by that time, the entire value of the RRSP becomes taxable income. A registered retirement income fund, or RRIF, is one of the most common options Canadians choose to convert RRSP savings to tax-deferred income. After years spent paying into a registered retirement savings plan (RRSP), investors eventually have to use the funds as post-retirement income. RRSPs must be collapsed by Dec. 31 of the year in which the holder turns 71.
In this case, the funds in your RRIF can be transferred to an RRSP or RRIF of your spouse, or of a child with a disability, without triggering taxable income, or tax can be deferred by purchasing annuities to age 18 for children without disabilities. A Registered Retirement Income Fund (RRIF) allows you to gradually withdraw funds for your use today and into the future. RRIF market value on January 1 of {current year }{ } 190 – age on January 1 of current year x.
The government requires RRSPs (personal and spousal) to be converted to a RRIF the year a person turns 71. After that, withdrawals begin and they’re taxed as income. Currently, annual minimum withdrawals start at 7.48% for those aged 71 and rise every year to a maximum of 20% for anyone 94 or older. 
You can think of a Registered Retirement Income Fund (RRIF) as an extension of your Registered Retirement Savings Plan (RRSP). Your RRSP is used to save for your retirement while a RRIF is used to withdraw income during your retirement. RRIFs are similar to RRSPs in several respects. An RRSP is required to be converted to a retirement income option such as a RRIF by December 31 of the year in which you turn 71. However, you do have the option to convert your RRSP to a RRIF at anytime before then. Also see: RRSP Strategies at age 71