Staple crops are shown in bold type. A staple food is one that is eaten regularly and in such quantities as to constitute the dominant part of the diet and supply a major proportion of energy and nutrient needs. A staple food does not meet a population's total nutritional needs: a variety of foods is required. Of more than 50 000 edible plant species in the world, only a few hundred contribute significantly to food supplies. Just 15 crop plants provide 90 percent of the world's food energy intake, with three rice, maize and wheat-making up two-thirds of this. These three are the staples of over 4 000 million people.
The staple food in different parts of the world is a function of weather patterns, local terrain, farming constraints, acquired tastes and ecosystems. For example, the main energy source staples in the average African diet are cereals (46 percent), roots and tubers (20 percent) and animal products (7 percent). Other staple foods include pulses (dried legumes), sago (derived from the pith of the sago palm tree), and fruits such as breadfruit and plantains. Staple foods may also contain, depending on the region, sorghum, olive oil, coconut oil and sugar
The staple food was maintained and people really enjoyed it a lot which was a big surprise to me and my partner. 2 people found this helpful. You may want to try to sell a staple food because you will know that people will always want to buy it. 6 people found this helpful. Rice is a staple food in many parts of the world. It is consumed as the main source of calories by millions of people every day. Show more usage examples... 
Typical examples of staples include tuber-or root-crops, grains, legumes, and other seeds. The staple food of a specific society may be eaten as often as every day, or every meal. Early agricultural civilizations valued the foods that they established as staples because, in addition to providing necessary nutrition, they generally are suitable for storage over long periods of time without decay. Other staple foods include pulses (dried legumes), sago (derived from the pith of the sago palm tree), and fruits such as breadfruit and plantains. Staple foods may also contain, depending on the region, sorghum, olive oil, coconut oil and sugar
Just three of them, rice, maize and wheat, provide 60 percent of the world's food energy intake. The main staple foods in the average African diet are (in terms of energy) cereals (46 percent), roots and tubers (20 percent) and animal products (7 percent). Of more than 50 000 edible plant species in the world, only a few hundred contribute significantly to food supplies. Just 15 crop plants provide 90 percent of the world's food energy intake, with three rice, maize and wheat-making up two-thirds of this. These three are the staples of over 4 000 million people.
Stock Your Kitchen with Staples. Planning meals is easier when you have staples on hand. Staples are foods that your family likes and uses often. In the cupboard, staples are foods that keep well for a long time — like pasta, dry beans, and canned vegetables. In the refrigerator and freezer, staples are foods that you use often to prepare meals. Protein Food Group Staple Ideas. 1  Dried or canned beans (such as kidney, pinto, black, garbanzo). 2  Dried peas and lentils. 3  Canned chicken. 4  Canned tuna or salmon (packed in water). 5  Peanut butter or other nut butters, like almond butter.
A staple food for Americans would include steak, potatoes and bread. A staple food of a Pacific islander would include yams, pork and fish. A staple food is something someone eats everyday, and is the basic nutrition of their culture. ghost · 8 years ago. 
Staple food is the name for a food that can be stored easily, and eaten throughout the year. Different kinds of staple food are used in different parts of the world (In Italy a staple food is pasta, as it can last for a long time). 