Gerbils should be fed a gerbil mix or lab blocks as their main diet. The following list of foods may be given as a treat. Introduce any new foods very slowly to avoid stomach upset. Fruit and vegetables may have more of an upsetting effect on your gerbils’s digestive system due to higher water content. Never feed a gerbil anything containing onion, garlic, chocolate or excess salt or sugar. If you are unsure if something is safe, do not feed it. A big Thank You to Jenna of Critterscoop as most of the information on this page was collected during her research for a safe food list.
My recommendation: try to get your hamster to eat a pelleted diet, and supplement it with a vareity of other foods such as human foods. If you like, you can even sprinkle a bit of a loose mix diet in with the pellets to add a bit of variety. Fresh Foods and Treats. You can feed your hamster a variety of human foods, as long as you stick to healthy human foods and limit the treats to no more than about 10 percent of the diet. Skip the the junk food and stick to healthy things like whole grains and fresh vegetables and fruits (in moderation, or diarrhea may result)
Only give … them a little bit of one of these at a time if you are going to give a gerbil any. bread (Only a tiny bit as it swells up in their stomach.) carrot apple cheerios shreddies lettuce dried banana pumpkin seed raisin grape peas celery sunflower seed cornflakes They can also eat lentils. they eat a veriety of fruits and veggies such as apples and carrots but you need to make sure you get regular gerbil food for them too, also they love seeds but they can … get kinda fat if you give them to many.
You may observe that your gerbil will eat all the sunflower seeds leaving all the others. In this case, you can take out all of them and keep them to help the taming process. This is a reason why you shouldn t only feed seed mix to your gerbils. Seeds mix The last % can be: Fruits, vegetables, cereal or milk products and insects. Those must be used in very small quantities to avoid digestion problems.
Gerbils eat dried fruits, veggies, and nuts and seeds. They eat dried apples, carrots, sweet peppers, and sweet potatoes. They also like sunflower seeds, pumpkin seeds, and gr … ain bits. they eat a veriety of fruits and veggies such as apples and carrots but you need to make sure you get regular gerbil food for them too, also they love seeds but they can … get kinda fat if you give them to many.
Introducing a gerbil to new foods. You should never change the diet of your gerbil suddenly. If you have just adopted a gerbil you should ask the previous owners what they were feeding the gerbil. Try and make a note of the exact brand of food so you can check it out for yourself and buy some. 
The gerbil is a granivorous rodent and a little omnivorous too. This means that it will eat seeds but also fruits, vegetables and even insects. Basic information The feeding should contain at least 18% protein and less then 5% fat. To obtain that, veterinarians (and I) advise to use rodent food pellets. In this case, you can take out all of them and keep them to help the taming process. This is a reason why you shouldn t only feed seed mix to your gerbils. Seeds mix The last % can be: Fruits, vegetables, cereal or milk products and insects. Those must be used in very small quantities to avoid digestion problems.
Vitamins and petshop treats If you feed your gerbils with good complet food, you won't need to add any vitamins. In laboratorys, I never saw a technicien give vitamins to the lab animals. Petshop treats are there for us. Pets don't need them. In this case, you can take out all of them and keep them to help the taming process. This is a reason why you shouldn t only feed seed mix to your gerbils. Seeds mix The last % can be: Fruits, vegetables, cereal or milk products and insects. Those must be used in very small quantities to avoid digestion problems.
Confidence votes 46. Gerbils have quite a strong stomach and do not get diarrhea as easily as hamsters or rats. But you have to be careful about what they eat and how much you give them. Only give them a little bit of one of these at a time if you are going to give a gerbil any. they eat a veriety of fruits and veggies such as apples and carrots but you need to make sure you get regular gerbil food for them too, also they love seeds but they can … get kinda fat if you give them to many.
Gerbils eat dried fruits, veggies, and nuts and seeds. They eat dried apples, carrots, sweet peppers, and sweet potatoes. They also like sunflower seeds, pumpkin seeds, and gr … ain bits. For a complete, healthy diet, you should get these in bagged food that you find at Petsmart and feed stores. they eat a veriety of fruits and veggies such as apples and carrots but you need to make sure you get regular gerbil food for them too, also they love seeds but they can … get kinda fat if you give them to many.