The pH is increased with soda ash which is also called sodium carbonate. Most pool companies simply name the product pH increaser or pH add. The alkalinity is increaed with sodium bicarbonate which is also called baking soda. Most pools companies name the product total alkalinity increaser. Regular baking soda can be used but you may have to use alot. Best Answer: Raise alkalinity with sodium bicarbonate. Adjust it first, then tweak the pH with soda ash. To lower either one use acid. Muriatic (dilute hydrochloric) is most common. But dry acid is also used
Gary it depends on the TA reading before you add the baking soda and 10 lbs is probably was too much for your pool of 850 gallons as I only used 10 pounds in my 15000 gal swimming pool to raise it from 60PPM to close to 90 PPM. Reply. -. Hi….. 
CA is the portion of the TA that is due to carbonates from sodium bicarbonate (baking soda), sodium carbonate (soda ash), and other sources. On pools with concrete or limestone surfaces, low CA together with low pH will let your pool water DISSOLVE your pool surfaces, which is usually NOT a good thing. It's common in pool product labels to use the most obscure chemical name legally allowed, all for the purpose of allowing to sell you on their sodium hydrogen carbonate @ $1.50/lb instead of baking soda @ $0.40. Everytime I add baking soda, my pH goes up.
Baking soda actually raises the total alkalinity of your pool. This does also increase your pH, but should only be used if your test kit shows low alkalinity. Otherwise you'll raise both pH and alkalinity and then have to use alkalinity down. Borax will raise PH and not alkalinity, but it raises it a lot. No. Use hydrochloric acid to reduce pH. Baking soda primarily raises alkalinity, but slightly raises the pH as well. Pour acid into deep end of pool. Take care not to splash o … n your clothes, skin or in your eyes.
Some have stated Baking Soda can be used as a replacement to Soda Ash, for increasing the PH of the pool, but Soda Ash (sodium carbonate) has a different chemical makeup than … Baking Soda (sodium bicarbonate). No. Use hydrochloric acid to reduce pH. Baking soda primarily raises alkalinity, but slightly raises the pH as well. Pour acid into deep end of pool. Take care not to splash o … n your clothes, skin or in your eyes.
Alkalinity is an important measurement in your pool water. It is tied closely to pH and will effect how the pH in the water is absorbed. Alkalinity is a buffer basically for your pool pH. Here I show you how to raise your Total Alkalinity without raising your pH by adding Alkalinity Up or Baking Soda. Mrdgvb1 Social Media Links: Google +: https://plus.google.com/b/10773534357..
You can buy the more expensive Alkalinity Up at your local pool store but it will have the same exact ingredient a Baking soda: Sodium Bicarbonate. So you can pay $20.00 for a 5 lbs. bag of Alkalinity Up or $5.00 for a 5 lbs. bag of Baking Soda at Walmart or Costco. 
According to Pool Wizard, total alkalinity should be between 80 parts per million (ppm) and 120 parts per million. Adding sodium bicarbonate substances into the water raises pool alkalinity. Instead of using expensive pool chemicals, baking soda can effectively increase pool alkalinity. Instructions. Check your swimming pool alkalinity with an alkalinity test kit, available at any pool supply store. The current water alkalinity will determine the amount of baking soda to be added to the water. Add 14 pounds of baking soda per 10,000 gallons of water if its alkalinity measures 10 ppm.
Caution-check your alkalinity before using borax, because borax raises PH only, without affecting your alkalinity. If your alkalinity is also low you can use baking soda to raise your alkalinity and PH. Baking Soda raises PH and Alkalinity at the same time. Baking Soda has the same ingredients as Alkalinity plus, but half the price. No. Use hydrochloric acid to reduce pH. Baking soda primarily raises alkalinity, but slightly raises the pH as well. Pour acid into deep end of pool. Take care not to splash o … n your clothes, skin or in your eyes.