For other uses, see Springbok (disambiguation) . The springbok (Antidorcas marsupialis) is a medium-sized brown and white antelope-gazelle of southwestern Africa. It is extremely fast and can reach speeds of 88 km/h (55 mph) and can leap 4 m (13 feet) through the air. The common name springbok comes from the Afrikaans and Dutch words spring = jump and bok = male antelope or goat. Springbok footprints are narrow and sharp, and are 5.5 cm (2.2 in) long. springbok are distinguished from gazelles in that they only have two premolar teeth in each side of each jaw, instead of three, and therefore a total of twenty eight teeth, rather than thirty.
The South Africa national rugby union team, commonly known by their nickname of the Springboks, is the South African international rugby union team and is governed by the South African Rugby Union. The Springboks play in green and gold jerseys with white shorts, and their emblems are the Springbok and the King Protea. 
spring·bok. n. pl. springbok or spring·boks also springbuck or spring·bucks. A small brown and white gazellelike antelope (Antidorcas marsupialis) of southern Africa, noted for its habit of repeatedly leaping high into the air when startled. 
Springbok mate year-round, although females may be more likely to enter oestrus during the rainy season, when food is more plentiful. During the rut, males establish territories, ranging from 10 to 70 hectares (25 to 173 acres), which they mark by urinating and depositing large piles of dung. Springbok footprints are narrow and sharp, and are 5.5 cm (2.2 in) long. springbok are distinguished from gazelles in that they only have two premolar teeth in each side of each jaw, instead of three, and therefore a total of twenty eight teeth, rather than thirty.
Full Definition of SPRINGBOK. : a swift and graceful southern African gazelle (Antidorcas marsupialis) noted for its habit of springing lightly and suddenly into the air. See springbok defined for English-language learners. See springbok defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Antidorcas. Roaming the central plains of southern Africa is the slender springbok, the National Animal of South Africa. Within the last 100 years springbok numbers have greatly declined, but older Southern Africans still remember a time when springbok herds were so large they took several days to pass their farms. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. A springbok Antidorcas marsupialias is the national animal of South Africa. It is a type of gazelle that escapes its enemies by pronking and prancing away at a speed of up to 58mph. It is the fastest gazelle. It also has a reddish tan coat, white underpartsm black stripes that run down the sides of its face and its sides, and has a curved pair of horns. The springbok is also a national rugby team in Africa. The springbok is wide in numbers and also is protected.
A springbok is the national animal of South Africa. It is a type of gazelle that escapes its enemies by pronking and prancing away at a speed of up to 58mph. It is the fastest gazelle. It also has a reddish tan coat, white underpartsm black stripes that run down the sides of its face and its sides, and has a curved pair of horns. The springbok is also a national rugby team in Africa. The springbok is wide in numbers and also is protected.
When the male springbok is showing off his strength to attract a mate, or to ward off predators, he starts off in a stiff-legged trot, jumping up into the air with an arched back every few paces and lifting the flap along his back. Springbok footprints are narrow and sharp, and are 5.5 cm (2.2 in) long. springbok are distinguished from gazelles in that they only have two premolar teeth in each side of each jaw, instead of three, and therefore a total of twenty eight teeth, rather than thirty.
The Springbok Antelope (Antidorcas marsupialis) is a medium sized brown and white gazelle that stands about 75 centimetres (30 in) high. It is in the same family as antelope and goats. They are the national animal of South Africa and live in the Savannah Biome. 