For the peninsula, see Iberian Peninsula. Portugal–Spain relations describes relations between the governments of the Portuguese Republic and the Kingdom of Spain. The two states make up the vast majority of the Iberian Peninsula and as such, the relationship between the two is sometimes known as Iberian relations. Portugal, Castille and Aragon were allies in the Reconquista in which they reconquered land from the Muslim Moors in the south of the Iberian Peninsula. Portugal's reconquest was fully achieved by 1249, while Spain finished its reconquest in 1492.
Christopher Columbus was a Portuguese by birth. After the death of his wife in 1485, he with his son Diego moved to Spain because the Portuguese ruler did not support his quest for an exploratory voyage. This treaty was created to resolve the territorial problems that the Treaty of Tordesillas could´t resolve. Because there were continued wars between Spain and Portugal (from 1761 to 1763 and from 1776 to 1777) for knew who of the kingdoms would reign the territories of the current Uruguay and the current Paraguay.
The Tordesillas Treaty. The treaty was signed as an agreement between the Spanish and the Portuguese monarchs. The Treaty was signed to avoid the unwanted confusion between Spain and the Portugal on the claim of the land in the New World. In 1493, Christopher Columbus returned to Spain. He narrated the stories about his voyage to Pope Alexander VI, a Spanish by birth. Understanding the need to divide the New World lands between Spain and Portugal he issued a  Papal Decree  (Papal Bull). The Treaty of Tordesillas was signed as a mutual agreement between Spain and Portugal to propagate their quest for explorations in the New World and also to enhance their trade activities.
The Spanish and Portuguese Conquest of the Americas. In 1484 Christopher Columbus tried unsuccessfully to interest King John II of Portugal in voyages of discovery to the west. Columbus then offered his services in leading such an explatory voyage to King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella of what later became Spain. There Columbus lost his flagship, the Santa Maria. He then returned to Spain to report his findings. When word of Columbus' discoveries reached Portugal its king charged the Spanish with encroachment into the Portuguese realm. Ferdinand and Isabella then appealed to the Pope in Rome, who was in origin a Spaniard.
Shortly thereafter, the Portuguese explorer Pedro Alvares Cabral explored Brazil, setting off a conflict between Spain and Portugal in terms of the newly claimed lands. As a result, the Treaty of Tordesillas officially divided the world in half in 1494. Also during the Age of Discovery were the famed voyages of Christopher Columbus. These voyages started as an attempt to find a trade route to Asia by sailing west. Instead, he reach America in 1492 and shared information on this newly found land with Spain and the rest of Europe.
Without an understanding of the bitter rivalry between Spain and Portugal it is impossible to completely understand the Columbus saga. Just as Columbus was about to sail, the Spanish engineered a coup d'etat état at The vatican And Spanish Pope ALEXANDER vi was Elected. pope Thus was created a military alliance between Portugal and England which saved the rogue state from extinction. After the Reformation, Spain almost went bankrupt financing the Spanish Armada in order to force England to return to Rome!! Queen Philippa is called the mother of the Portuguese Empire.
The Treaty of Tordesillas was a document created by the Spanish Pope Alexander VI and signed by Ferdinand II king of Aragon, Isabel I queen of Castile and John II king of Portugal the 7 June 1494. This treaty was created to resolve the territorial problems that the Treaty of Tordesillas could´t resolve. Because there were continued wars between Spain and Portugal (from 1761 to 1763 and from 1776 to 1777) for knew who of the kingdoms would reign the territories of the current Uruguay and the current Paraguay.
Portugal's copy of the Treaty of Tordesillas (1494) which divided the New World between itself and Spain. During the 15th century, both kingdoms, Portugal and Castile, built increasingly large fleets of ships and began to explore the world beyond Europe, sending explorers to Africa and Asia. Portugal, Castille and Aragon were allies in the Reconquista in which they reconquered land from the Muslim Moors in the south of the Iberian Peninsula. Portugal's reconquest was fully achieved by 1249, while Spain finished its reconquest in 1492.
His real name was Salvador Fernandez Zarco and he was married to a Portuguese lady named Dona Doña Felipa. Perestrelo The Genovese Christopher columbus legend was born out of the fierce maritime rivalry Between spain And portugal and the fact That John cabot was born In. Genoa another portrait Of. columbus Thus was created a military alliance between Portugal and England which saved the rogue state from extinction. After the Reformation, Spain almost went bankrupt financing the Spanish Armada in order to force England to return to Rome!! Queen Philippa is called the mother of the Portuguese Empire.