The MISCO PA201 digital Brix refractometer is a valuable instrument for determining the sugar content in fruits, vegetables, juices, beverages, and in wine and beer making. It is also used extensively as a base scale for measuring non-sugar fluids such as metalworking fluids, lubricants and industrial chemicals. 
As previously stated, a refractometer allows the winemaker to figure the percentage Brix (the relative sugar weight of a sample compared to distilled water) of the juice of grapes or other fresh fruit. Brix is sometimes referred to as Balling-don't worry, the terms are interchangeable. 
Degrees Brix (symbol °Bx) is the sugar content of an aqueous solution. Different countries use the scales in different industries: In brewing, the UK uses specific gravity X 1000; Europe uses Plato degrees; and the US use a mix of specific gravity, degrees Brix, degrees Baume, baumé and Degrees. Plato for fruit, juices.1 0 Degree brix is denoted as.10 % sugar by. mass
A refractometer is a laboratory or field device for the measurement of an index of refraction (refractometry). In drug diagnostics, a refractometer is used to measure the specific gravity of human urine. In gemology/gemmology, the gemstone refractometer is one the fundamental pieces of equipment used in a gemological laboratory.
Brix is used in the food industry for measuring the approximate amount of sugars in fruits, vegetables, juices, wine, soft drinks and in the starch and sugar manufacturing industry. Different countries use the scales in different industries: In brewing, the UK uses specific gravity X 1000; Europe uses Plato degrees; and the US use a mix of specific gravity, degrees Brix, degrees Baume, baumé and Degrees. Plato for fruit, juices.1 0 Degree brix is denoted as.10 % sugar by. mass
A Brix tester measures the refraction value of the juice typically from your produce. It commonly used to measure the peak sugar content typically for eating or wine production. The unit most common meters have a detection limit of 0.2%. 
One degree Brix is 1 gram of sucrose in 100 grams of solution and represents the strength of the solution as percentage by mass. If the solution contains dissolved solids other than pure sucrose, then the °Bx only approximates the dissolved solid content. Different countries use the scales in different industries: In brewing, the UK uses specific gravity X 1000; Europe uses Plato degrees; and the US use a mix of specific gravity, degrees Brix, degrees Baume, baumé and Degrees. Plato for fruit, juices.1 0 Degree brix is denoted as.10 % sugar by. mass
A brix refractometer is the instrument used to measure refractive index of an item's sucrose (Brix) level. Request Information. Although brix refractometers are best known for measuring liquids, they are also used to measure gases and solids. A Brix Refractometer is frequently used by grape growers, Kiwifruit growers, home brewers as well as food producers for Brix testing of sucrose levels in their fruit. A Brix Refractometer can also used in the gelatin industry.
A refractometer is the instrument used to obtain a brix reading. This simple, hand-held measures the amount of refraction (or bend) in a beam of light that passes through the plant sap. Brix. Brix is a scale based on the amount that light bends when it passes through a liquid. If one were to place one's hand in a pond and measure the amount it appeared to bend, and then place it in the ocean, it would appear to bend a different amount.