Some player do get lump sum payments. I know Kobe Bryant got 24 million at the start of the 2013-14 season, but there aren't many players that gat paid that way. The total numbers of games is not included, unless a player was suspended for a game without pay i.e. breach of contract. A player making 20,000,000 a year makes roughly 192,000 every two weeks.
52 NBA Players Who Make More Money Than Every Player In The WNBA Combined. The WNBA is estimated to pay a total of $10.3 million in salaries, or roughly 1/3 of Kobe Bryant’s current salary. Lindsey Adler. BuzzFeed News Reporter. 
With an average salary of over $5 million per year, NBA players are among sports' wealthiest athletes. Yet, even within that stratosphere, there is a hierarchy. Alex Rodriguez will make over $29 million to play baseball for the New York Yankees this season. Of the 25 highest-paid NBA players this season, there is only one who wasn't a first-round pick in the NBA draft. That's Carlos Boozer. Boozer lasted all the way until the second round of the 2002 NBA draft. He went 35th to the Cleveland Cavaliers.
Thanks. Paul: Oddly enough, yes. The absurdity of the biweekly checks is exacerbated by the fact that NBA players are paid only during the season. So, the $14.7 million is compacted into a six-month period. 
All salaries are denominated in USD Players are paid on the 15th and last day of every month starting with September 30th and ending on April 15th. We get paid on the 1st and the 15th. According to this cbafaq.com page, NBA payroll rules can vary by the player's contract, within limits stipulated by the CBA: The league's standard paydays are on the 1st and 15th of each month, beginning November 151. For contracts signed under the current CBA, the default is 24 paychecks paid over one calendar year
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The NBA is a bi-weekly pay schedule system, in which the money is determined by whether or not you are under contract during the previous two weeks. The total numbers of games is not included, unless a player was suspended for a game without pay i.e. breach of contract. A player making 20,000,000 a year makes roughly 192,000 every two weeks.
That depends on the player. Rookies generally only get paid $1 million a season while average veterans get paid around $5 a season. The best of the best, like Kevin Garnett an … d LeBron James, get paid around $20 million a season. A lot. In the NBA, athletes get paid between 90 000 and over 1 million dollars per year. In the WNBA, athletes get paid between 30 and 100 thousand. 150 thousand if they are … really good. I personally think that they should be paid the same, but the NBA is older and has much more fans than the WNBA.
According to this post on baseball-fever.com, MLB players are paid: We get paid on the 1st and the 15th. There is a caveat-these paycheck rules can change periodically due to the CBA rules negotiated by the leagues and their player associations. We get paid on the 1st and the 15th. According to this cbafaq.com page, NBA payroll rules can vary by the player's contract, within limits stipulated by the CBA: The league's standard paydays are on the 1st and 15th of each month, beginning November 151.
The NBA's salary cap restricts teams from providing significant bonuses to players for post-season performances, but there is a league-wide playoff kitty, 2010's playoff pool reached a record $12 million, but not all of that money is allotted for playoff performances. 