A period or menstruation is a part of the menstrual cycle.On the average, the duration of a menstrual cycle is twenty-eight days. For some, it may be as short as twenty-one days or it may last for thirty-five days. A menstrual period marks the beginning or Day 1 of the menstrual cycle. Hence, a menstrual period is the shedding of the uterus lining. The duration of a menstrual period on the average is between three to five days. As such, a period that lasts between two to seven days is considered normal. The amount of blood lost in each cycle is measured between four to twelve teaspoons.
Miscarriage. Spotting can sometimes mean that your body is miscarrying the fetus during pregnancy. A miscarriage is when the fetus detaches from your uterus. However, in a miscarriage, the spotting will eventually turn heavy, so light spotting during pregnancy does not always mean you are miscarrying. A miscarriage cannot be avoided.
1 Spotting to minimal bleeding may be normal. 2  But any bleeding during pregnancy needs to be evaluated by your doctor. 3  Heavy vaginal bleeding or bleeding that occurs before 12 weeks may mean a serious problem, including an ectopic pregnancy or miscarriage. 1 You also may have bleeding if you do not take your pills at a regular time each day. 2  For more information, see the topic Birth Control. 3  An intrauterine device (IUD) also may increase your chances of spotting or heavy periods. 4  For more information on the IUD
“Normal” Spotting. Normal spotting is what may occur at the very end of your bleeding days. A day or two of spotting after 3 to 5 days of bleeding is normal, and just the end of the bleeding period. Spotting before your menstruation is common but not ideal. A period ideally should freely flow once started. Spotting that occurs in the middle of your cycle or spotting that occurs some ten to fourteen days prior to the start of the next cycle is normal too. This spotting may occur during ovulation. Seeing a spot of blood around ovulation is considered an excellent fertility sign
Spotting. Spotting or vaginal spotting on the other hand may occur between menstrual cycles. The blood or fluid that is discharged through the vagina is more often than not very minimal and at times can only be droplets of blood. The color of blood may appear as dark brown or light pink. Hence, a menstrual period is the shedding of the uterus lining. The duration of a menstrual period on the average is between three to five days. As such, a period that lasts between two to seven days is considered normal. The amount of blood lost in each cycle is measured between four to twelve teaspoons.
Implantation Bleeding Is Different from Your Regular Period. Implantation spotting is a very little blood discharge and the blood is usually brown or pink in color. It won't be red in color like that you notice on your regular period. Your implantation spotting isn't going to intensify and usually stops within a few hours or 2-3 days tops. 2. Implantation spotting is a very little blood discharge and the blood is usually brown or pink in color. It won't be red in color like that you notice on your regular period. Your implantation spotting isn't going to intensify and usually stops within a few hours or 2-3 days tops.
Pregnancy. Spotting can occur in the early stages of pregnancy. If you have a missed period and you are spotting and have no other health concerns, it could be an indication that you are pregnant. Blood that's brownish in color during spotting is also another indication you might be pregnant. The reason it's brown is because your uterus is shedding old blood. A miscarriage is when the fetus detaches from your uterus. However, in a miscarriage, the spotting will eventually turn heavy, so light spotting during pregnancy does not always mean you are miscarrying. A miscarriage cannot be avoided.
Based on the foregoing, spotting and having a period are two different conditions. The underlying difference is actually in the amount of blood that is discharged through the vagina. Spotting may occur at any point in time of the menstrual cycle that is why it is defined as irregular or abnormal bleeding. Hence, a menstrual period is the shedding of the uterus lining. The duration of a menstrual period on the average is between three to five days. As such, a period that lasts between two to seven days is considered normal. The amount of blood lost in each cycle is measured between four to twelve teaspoons.