Poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA), also known as acrylic or acrylic glass as well as by the trade names Plexiglas, Acrylite, Lucite, and Perspex among several others (see below), is a transparent thermoplastic often used in sheet form as a lightweight or shatter-resistant alternative to glass. 1 PMMA acrylic glass is commonly used for constructing residential and commercial aquariums. 2  Designers started building big aquariums when poly(methyl methacrylate) could be used. 3  It is less-used in other building types due to incidents such as the Summerland disaster.
Not to be confused with methyl acrylate. Methyl methacrylate (MMA) is an organic compound with the formula CH 2 =C(CH 3)COOCH 3. This colourless liquid, the methyl ester of methacrylic acid (MAA) is a monomer produced on a large scale for the production of poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA).
MMA is what is actually called methyl methacrylate, but since saying that is a true tongue twister, everyone refers to it as MMA. In layman’s terms MMA is actually a transparent plastic. Think of some plastic surfaces that can be seen through, and chances are that the substance it is made of is MMA. 
Methyl Methacrylate (MMA) Binder Resin Product #698 is a 100% reactive, low viscosity, flexible methyl methacrylate resin for use as a binder for low resin content troweled mortars and polymer concrete. The resin is ideal for making repairs and to change the slope on floors, bridge decks and joint headers. Methyl Methacrylate (MMA) Binder Resin Product #698 can be installed as thick as 2.5 inches in one operation. Low Viscosity Methyl Methacrylate (MMA) Sealer Product #699 is a 100% reactive, low viscosity methyl methacrylate resin developed as a chemical resistant sealer/topcoat. Methyl Methacrylate (MMA) Decking Installation Overview. This is a quick guide to the installation of the typical Epoxy.com Flexible Decking Systems and Overlay. This is intended to be a quick overview. Be sure to consult all of the specific tech data sheet associated with this system as well.
Our Methyl Methacrylate Flooring Systems can be used as a solid color, with colored quartz, or our Flooring Chips.Our Product #692 Flexible Methacrylate can be used for crack isolation and waterproofing where movement is anticipated. Methyl Methacrylate (MMA) Decking Installation Overview. This is a quick guide to the installation of the typical Epoxy.com Flexible Decking Systems and Overlay. This is intended to be a quick overview. Be sure to consult all of the specific tech data sheet associated with this system as well.
MMA (Methyl Methacrylate) seamless, resinous flooring systems fully cure in one hour, and are unsurpassed in durability, cost savings, substrate bond, and aesthetics. 
DESCRIPTION. Product #691 Methyl Methacrylate (MMA) Flooring Primer is a 100% reactive Methyl Methacrylate primer for all Epoxy.com MMA floor and wall systems. Epoxy.com Product #691 Methyl Methacrylate (MMA) Flooring Primer is supplied clear. Color packs are available for selected colors. Color pack mix ratio is 1 quart pigment per 5 gallons resin.
Enlarge. Silikal is the only flooring company in the world that utilizes “enhanced” MMA flooring, and that’s why Silikal outlasts all other floors out there. Enlarge. Flooring that is referred to as being MMA actually are referring to its chemical compound name methyl methacrylate. Enlarge. Floors made of MMA or methyl methacrylate are both fast cure as well as completely seamless. Every flooring company seems to carry MMA flooring, but not all of it is completely solvent free. In looking deeper, you find that they also don’t seem to all give LEED credits either, but the hardest to locate is an MMA flooring that will cure in a couple of hours and has all the other goodies attached to the offering.
Methyl Methacrylate (MMA) flooring systems deliver unique solutions to flooring problems faced by pharmaceutical manufacturing, food and beverage plants, industrial, medical facilities, grocery stores, freezers, refrigerated warehouses, schools, public works and numerous other commercial facilities. Our MMA flooring system is perfect where new floors need to be installed or repaired promptly. They endure pedestrian wear and tear, and can be installed in food-and odor-sensitive buildings. Our methyl methacrylate flooring systems offer numerous features and benefits: