The Citadel in Ruin, Turkey, has stood as a religious focus for centuries. It is tied to the Catholic Church, but The Citadel predates it significantly, and guards a mysterious sacrament.. Naturally, the monks want to keep it secret by any means necessary and there is an opposing group who wants it revealed. Relaxing thriller.This is what passes for a beach book nowadays? Makes your blood boil.The premise; an ancient holy relic lies hidden in a Citadel built into the sides of a mountain in the city of Ruin in Turkey guarded by an order of monks.
Move over “Brown” there’s a new sheriff in town and his name is Toyne – Simon Toyne! One of my Top 10 books of 2011. A figure dressed in a hooded green cloth stands resolute, a thousand feet above the fictional city of Ruin, Turkey. Precariously poised on the edge of savage precipice he opens his arms in the shape of a cross and waits, and waits and waits – the wind picks up and a decision is made.
Move over “Brown” there’s a new sheriff in town and his name is Toyne – Simon Toyne! One of my Top 10 books of 2011. A figure dressed in a hooded green cloth stands resolute, a thousand feet above the fictional city of Ruin, Turkey. 
Hattusha. Hattusha is one of Turkey’s great ruins of the capitals of the Hittite Empire and is listed as a UNESCO World Heritage site. Hierapolis. Hierapolis was once a thriving, multicultural ancient city and spa, the remains of which can now be seen in modern day Turkey. Nemrut in Turkey is the site of the eminently impressive 1st century BC tomb of King Antiochus I Epiphanes. Olympos. Olympos is truly a stunning destination, a playground for pirates; these ancient ruins tell a story that blurs the line between myth and reality.
The Citadel (Hisar), Ankara. Great intro to travel in Turkey, good airplane & bedtime reading! You can spot Ankara 's lofty Citadel (Hisar, Kale) from any point in the city with a clear view (map). This was the original town, with foundations no doubt dating to Hittite times about 3000 years ago. The outer walls you see now were built in the 800s by the Byzantine emperor Michael II.
Ephesus in Turkey represents some of the best preserved Greek and Roman ruins in the Mediterranean. Galata Tower. Galata Tower is a medieval turreted tower first built by the Genoese in 1348. Nemrut in Turkey is the site of the eminently impressive 1st century BC tomb of King Antiochus I Epiphanes. Olympos. Olympos is truly a stunning destination, a playground for pirates; these ancient ruins tell a story that blurs the line between myth and reality.
The ancient fortress is located just west of Van and east of Lake Van in the Van Province of Turkey. The lower parts of the walls of Van Citadel were constructed of unmortared basalt, while the rest was built from mud-bricks. The ruins of this fortress sit outside the modern city of Van, where they support walls built in the medieval era. A stereotyped trilingual inscription of Xerxes the Great from the 5th century BC is inscribed upon a smoothed section of the rock face, some 20 meters (60 feet) above the ground near the fortress.
The Fortress of Van (Armenian: վանի բերդ, also known as Van Citadel, Turkish: Van Kalesi or Kurdish: Kela Wane ‎) wanê is a massive stone fortification built by the ancient kingdom Of urartu during the 9th to 7th CENTURIES, bc and is the largest example of its. kind The ruins of this fortress sit outside the modern city of Van, where they support walls built in the medieval era. A stereotyped trilingual inscription of Xerxes the Great from the 5th century BC is inscribed upon a smoothed section of the rock face, some 20 meters (60 feet) above the ground near the fortress.
The province of Van in Turkey is home to many amazing fortresses, castles and relics of the ancient past. Researchers have now located the site of castle ruins in Van, Turkey, near Hoşap Castle (pictured), which date back to the early Iron Age. The eastern province of Van was the center of the Urartu civilization. The notable Fortress of Van (Van Citadel) is a massive stone fortification built in the 8th and 7th centuries B.C. Sections of the walls are still standing, and it hosts an ancient inscription by Xerxes the Great. Top of Castle Van in Turkey.