But if you want to do a 3rd, 4th or even a 5th round, the amount of time between rounds should get progressively longer.So if you are doing a 3rd round of the HCG Diet, you must wait 8 weeks from the time your 2nd round ends before you can begin your 3rd round of injections. The amount of weight that you need to lose, will sometimes determine how many rounds you should do.Unless they have a great round with no stalls, people that need to lose any-more than 34 pounds will usually end up doing at least 2 rounds of the HCG Weight Loss Program.
If you decide that a 2nd, 3rd, or even a 4th round of HCG Hormone Injections is needed, you must wait a specific amount of time between rounds. How Long to Wait Between Rounds of the HCG Diet: In other words if you want to do a 2nd round you would wait six weeks after ending round 1. The amount of weight that you need to lose, will sometimes determine how many rounds you should do.Unless they have a great round with no stalls, people that need to lose any-more than 34 pounds will usually end up doing at least 2 rounds of the HCG Weight Loss Program.
Length of hCG Course and Course Overview. A single round of hCG is either 26 or 43 days long, depending on how much weight you want to lose. Each round will start with 2 days of gorging on high fat and high calorie foods, on your first 2 days of injections.
It makes it easier to keep track of what everyone is doing. Dr. Simeons had his treatment phase, and the duration of treatment lasted either a minimum of 26 days or a maximum of 43 days. In the HCG Community, the 26 days have come to be known as a short round and 43 day’s are known as a long round. On the third day of taking HCG, the patient begins the 500 calorie a day diet, or the VLCD, Very Low Calorie Diet. 
This will be a 3 part series-before we get into the nitty gritty in parts 2 and 3 (links at the end of the article to these posts) , let’s break down the most basic information for the technically required breaks between rounds on the hCG Diet. Per Dr. Simeons, Phase 3 is always 3 weeks long. Time to wait between rounds of hCG: Round 1 and Round 2: 6 weeks total Round 2 and Round 3: 8 weeks total Round 3 and Round 4: 10 weeks total Round 4 and Round 5: 12 weeks total ETC….. As you can see there is 2 weeks added to each successive round. Podcast: Play in new window | Download. Subscribe: iTunes | Android |. 
After every round of hCG where you finish Phase 2 (the losing weight part), you always do 3 weeks of Phase 3- during this period you are eating a more normal amount of calories (don’t ask me how many-there isn’t an exact number-it’s more about eating to hunger) just no starches and sugars. 
In their version of the diet, phase 3 is only 21 days or 3 weeks long. If I have more weight to lose, I start taking HCG injections the day after I finish phase 3. I do a load day (phase 1) and I inject. Download My Diet Tracker. After 2 or 3 rounds of this schedule, I do tire of the strict food guidelines. However, when they are stuck to, I have always lost weight. Other places out there on the web say wait 6 weeks in between rounds. I can see how 6 weeks might work to help eleviate burn out on the protocol.
This will be a 3 part series-before we get into the nitty gritty in parts 2 and 3, let's break down the most basic information for the technically required breaks between rounds on the hCG Diet. Per Dr. Simeons, Phase 3 is always 3 weeks long. Time to wait between rounds of hCG: Round 1 and Round 2: 6 weeks total. Round 2 and Round 3: 8 weeks total. Round 3 and Round 4: 10 weeks total. Round 4 and Round 5: 12 weeks total. ETC..... As you can see there is 2 weeks added to each successive round. Read the full story here: http://hcgchica.com/when-can-you-star... 
You would have to wait 12 weeks between the 3rd and 4th round and no less than 20 weeks between the 4th and 5th. If you should end up doing 6 rounds, you need to wait at least 6 months between the 5th and 6th round of the HCG Hormone Injections. The amount of weight that you need to lose, will sometimes determine how many rounds you should do.Unless they have a great round with no stalls, people that need to lose any-more than 34 pounds will usually end up doing at least 2 rounds of the HCG Weight Loss Program.