There are no formal requirements for a judge to specialize in family court. However, certain jurisdictions are moving towards requiring or encouraging family court judges to gain education and experience in issues that have bearing on the nature of family court cases.
Apply to law school. It takes many years to work your way to a judgeship, so you may want to attend law school as soon as you graduate from college. Apply to top law schools in areas where you might want to eventually practice law. 1  Ace the Law School Admission Test (LSAT).
Courts also are available to protect individual rights from government excess. Judges start out as lawyers, and they typically practice law for a number of years before being appointed or elected as a judge. This article describes the path to obtaining a judgeship in the US.
The course to becoming a judge can take many years and requires an extensive legal background. On the state level, judges are needed in small trial courts, appellate courts, family courts and the Supreme Court. The same is true on the federal level, where judges are nominated by the president and approved by the Senate.
Step 2: Earn a Law Degree. Most judges begin their careers as lawyers, and prior legal practice is a prerequisite for many state and federal judgeships. Lawyers must hold Juris Doctor (J.D.) degrees, which require completing three years of legal education at a law school approved by the American Bar Association (ABA).
Step 5: Obtain a Judgeship. To become judges, lawyers must be appointed or elected. Lawyers may apply for judgeships by submitting their names for consideration to a judicial nominating commission, or senators or other politicians may recommend them.
Tweet. There are several hundred Illinois state judges whose job is to apply and interpret the laws that govern us. To become a judge, the Illinois Constitution states that the person must be a U.S. citizen, an Illinois licensed attorney-at-law and a resident of the geographic area that selects the judge.
A bachelor's degree plus sufficient relevant work experience are the only official requirements to become a judge in some jurisdictions. However, the overwhelming majority of judges have law degrees from three-year institutions as well. For federal and state positions, such degrees are usually mandatory.
Most states require a law degree for judges, for which you must pass the law school entrance exam and typically undergo about three more years of schooling. You’ll increase the likelihood of becoming a judge if you graduate from a law school approved by the American Bar Association.