LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. adjective. The definition of mendacious describes a dishonest person or thing. An example of mendacious used as an adjective is a mendacious person, a dishonest person. mendacis) ; from Indo-European base an unverified form mend-, a flaw from source Classical Latin emendare, emend.
1 A choice item in the collection of mendacious stories that were circulated about Columbus after his death is this. 2  Columbus lost himself on the way to Hispaniola, and only by virtue of letters and pilots sent by Martin Martín alonso did he manage to find the island and Join.  pinta 1 Indeed, the racist and Malthusian elements in Darwin's work are subjects on which the new secularists are either silent, delicate, or mendacious. — 2 Eugene McCarraher, Commonweal, 15 June 2007. 3 
Tess of the d'Urbervilles-A Pure Woman by Hardy, Thomas View in context. Mildred had become great friends with her and had given her an elaborate but mendacious account of the circumstances which had brought her to the pass she was in. Yes--what the mendacious family chronicles call extinct in the male line--that is, gone down--gone under.
1 It is an outright lie, a fabrication by a mendacious and unscrupulous writer. 2  He wanted me to know the sort of country I was living in and what was going on around me, in defiance of the chronically mendacious official propaganda. 1 He wanted me to know the sort of country I was living in and what was going on around me, in defiance of the chronically mendacious official propaganda. 2  Overall, Wittenberg portrays him as a petty, hypocritical, mendacious man whose primary focus was self-promotion.
1 —Eugene McCarraher, Commonweal, 15 June 2007. 2  A choice item in the collection of mendacious stories that were circulated about Columbus after his death is this. 3  Columbus lost himself on the way to Hispaniola, and only by virtue of letters and pilots sent by Martin Martín alonso did he manage to find the island and Join.  pinta 1 Indeed, the racist and Malthusian elements in Darwin's work are subjects on which the new secularists are either silent, delicate, or mendacious. — 2 Eugene McCarraher, Commonweal, 15 June 2007. 3
Yes--what the mendacious family chronicles call extinct in the male line--that is, gone down--gone under. Tess of the d'Urbervilles-A Pure Woman by Hardy, Thomas View in context. Mildred had become great friends with her and had given her an elaborate but mendacious account of the circumstances which had brought her to the pass she was in. Of Human Bondage by Maugham, W. Somerset View in context. 
Learner's definition of MENDACIOUS. [more mendacious; most mendacious] formal. 1. : not honest: likely to tell lies. a mendacious businessman. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. 2. : based on lies. The newspaper story was mendacious and hurtful. 
deceitful usually implies an intent to mislead and commonly suggests a false appearance or double-dealing. mendacious may suggest bland or even harmlessly mischievous deceit and when used of people often suggests a habit of telling untruths. untruthful stresses a discrepancy between what is said and fact or reality. 1 Indeed, the racist and Malthusian elements in Darwin's work are subjects on which the new secularists are either silent, delicate, or mendacious. — 2 Eugene McCarraher, Commonweal, 15 June 2007. 3  A choice item in the collection of mendacious stories that were circulated about Columbus after his death is this.
mendacious. adjective lying, false, untrue, fraudulent, dishonest, deceptive, deceitful, insincere, duplicitous, perjured, perfidious, fallacious, untruthful politicians issuing mendacious claims and counter-claims. Yes--what the mendacious family chronicles call extinct in the male line--that is, gone down--gone under.