Based on all of this, here’s how much muscle you can expect to gain on average over your entire lifespan: 1  Average Natural MAN: a total of about 40-50 pounds of muscle in their life. 2  Average Natural WOMAN: a total of about 20-25 pounds of muscle in their life. Meaning, an ideal muscle building workout routine and diet, an ideal amount of sleep every night, rest, recovery, consistency, lack of stress, and so on. Basically, when everything is done as perfectly as it could be, this is how fast you can expect to build muscle. And once again… these numbers are averages.
When your workouts drag on beyond an hour recovery from one session to the next may become more difficult. If your conditioning is up to par you should be able to get a lot of high quality work done in 45-60 minutes. You should be at the gym to work, no putz around, talk and watch TV. Always push the pace. About thirty minutes are fully sufficient to the acquisition and preservation of strength and endurance. – George Hackenshmidt, 1908. When it comes to workout duration less is more. To build muscle and get stronger you want to get to the gym hit it hard, stimulate size and strength gains, then get out. That means no more than sixty minutes total, excluding warm up time. When you start training your body will naturally boost testosterone levels significantly higher than normal
Hypertrophy workouts with short rest times 40 seconds – 1 minute can be affective with as little as 20-30 minutes of weightlifting so I really don’t like giving out a specific time that you should be in the gym for in order to build muscle. by Kevin on May 8, 2012. Another common question that people who are looking to gain weight/muscle ask is how long they should be in the gym training for to ensure they are building muscle.
Your workout should last 45 – 60 minutes max. After this time the ratio of catabolic hormones start to outweigh the anabolic hormones. Testosterone is a powerful anabolic hormone, you want as much of this stuff in your system as possible during the post workout recovery phase. 22 rests between sets at 1.5 minutes each = 33 minutes. 12 + 8 + 33 = 53 minute workout. Leave the chit-chat, texting and watching TV for after the gym. When you’re training you should be focused on getting the work done.
So, that’s how much muscle you can expect to gain, that’s how fast you can expect to build it, and those are the 6 main factors that can influence those amounts and what your body’s exact potential is. Meaning, an ideal muscle building workout routine and diet, an ideal amount of sleep every night, rest, recovery, consistency, lack of stress, and so on. Basically, when everything is done as perfectly as it could be, this is how fast you can expect to build muscle. And once again… these numbers are averages.
The most effective muscle building workouts will last anywhere from 40-60 minutes – but sometimes less and sometimes a little more. The only time I would really recommend lifting weights for more than 60 minutes is if you are doing a strength phase and you are taking rests of 2.5-5 minutes. by Kevin on May 8, 2012. Another common question that people who are looking to gain weight/muscle ask is how long they should be in the gym training for to ensure they are building muscle.
12 sets for chest (60 seconds per set x 14 sets = 12 minutes). 8 sets for biceps (60 seconds per set x 9 sets = 8 minutes). 22 rests between sets at 1.5 minutes each = 33 minutes. 12 + 8 + 33 = 53 minute workout. Leave the chit-chat, texting and watching TV for after the gym. When you’re training you should be focused on getting the work done. Get in, hit it hard, get out and start the recovery process
The answer: Depending on how often you exercise and the intensity of your workouts, give it between four to eight weeks for your muscles to get ripped, says Kawamoto. 