Ethology is the scientific and objective study of animal behaviour, usually with a focus on behaviour under natural conditions, and viewing behaviour as an evolutionarily adaptive trait. 
Probably there are also many other kinds of scientists who study monkeys such as physiologists and neurobiologists. They would study the physiology and neurobiology and whatever of primates, and you could call them primate physiologists and primate neurobiologists. It all depends on why they are studying them. If they are studying them mainly because they want to learn all about monkeys, they are called Primatologists. If they are studying them to learn more about people, they may be anthropologists or psychologists.
It might surprise you, but the answer to that question is no. Scientists who study dinosaur bones (or fossils) are called paleontologists. Paleontologists have a lot in common with archaeologists-both excavate and study animal bones. One of the easiest questions that can be answered by animal bones buried in an archaeological site is “What kinds of animals were people eating?” People ate all sorts of animals including bugs, fish, mice, monkeys, and even mammoths. So, why didn’t they eat dinosaurs (this is kind of a trick question)?
They were beaten, thrown in overloaded cages. Once an African man was treated as if he were the same as a monkey, put in a cage with one. He eventually committed suicide from the humiliation.   It is not racist if you called somebody a monkey no matter what ethnicity they are. If you did decide to say something like African people look like monkeys then you would definitely be saying something racist. 
Calling All Animal Scientists. A person who specializes in the study of animals is called a zoologist. Zoologists who study certain kinds of animals have their own names. 1  Anthropologists study human beings. 2  Entomologists study insects. 3  Herpetologists study reptiles and amphibians. 4  Ichthyologists specialize in fish. 
I could go on, but the big message is that there are lots of reasons to study monkeys and people from different fields of science are interested in them. If you are interested in a career studying monkeys, you can get there from several directions. It all depends on why they are studying them. If they are studying them mainly because they want to learn all about monkeys, they are called Primatologists. If they are studying them to learn more about people, they may be anthropologists or psychologists.
Monkeys are haplorhine (dry-nosed) primates, a paraphyletic group generally possessing tails and consisting of approximately 260 known living species. Many monkey species are tree-dwelling (arboreal), although there are species that live primarily on the ground, such as baboons. Most species are also active during the day (diurnal). Monkeys are generally considered to be intelligent, particularly Old World monkeys. Lemurs, lorises, and galagos are not monkeys; instead they are strepsirrhine (wet-nosed) primates.
A: The value of research on monkeys has been called into question, particularly as the European Union is considering an end to the use of wild-caught monkeys and chimpanzees. One current debate is in regards to the use of chimpanzees and monkeys for HIV research. Baker (2007) conducted a survey of 22 primate institutions housing approximately 36,000 primates and compared social housing of all monkeys with those used in research protocols. It was found that while 73 percent of the monkeys were socially housed, only 46 percent of those used for research purposes were.
Overall, the majority of research conducted on monkeys is harmful². For example, an analysis of monkey research revealed that 77 percent of the grant projects for the years 2000-mid 2002 were harmful, 12 percent were minimally harmful, 8 percent were not harmful, and 3 percent could not be categorized. Baker (2007) conducted a survey of 22 primate institutions housing approximately 36,000 primates and compared social housing of all monkeys with those used in research protocols. It was found that while 73 percent of the monkeys were socially housed, only 46 percent of those used for research purposes were.