Blisters-Topic Overview. Blisters are fluid-filled bumps that look like bubbles on the skin. You may develop a blister on your foot when you wear new shoes that rub against your skin or on your hand when you work in the garden without wearing gloves. Home treatment is often all that is needed for this type of blister. Other types of injuries to the skin that may cause a blister include:
Blisters are pockets of fluid that form on the skin, often as a reaction to rubbing, friction or burns. A blister is formed by the body's defence mechanisms to help protect the skin against further damage and to promote healing. Some blisters are caused by conditions such as chickenpox and impetigo. Blisters Don't pop the blister; the skin covering the blister helps protect it from infection. Gently wash the area with mild soap and water or a cleansing towel and then apply antibacterial cream. Cover it with gauze and secure with hypoallergenic tape to help protect the skin and prevent
Causes of blisters. Blisters are most often caused by skin being damaged by friction or heat. Certain medical conditions also cause blisters to appear. The damaged upper layer of skin (epidermis) tears away from the layers beneath and fluid (serum) collects in the space to create a blister
A blister is a collection of clear fluid trapped between or beneath the top layer of skin, the epidermis. Blisters, which are often called “water blisters,” often break open and the fluid inside is released onto the skin. Blisters, also known as vesicles, can occur in all age groups and populations. A blood blister is a specific type of blister that is due to damage to blood vessels and tissues just under the skin, which causes blood and other fluids to pool and form a bump. Blood blisters typically form after a strong pinch of the tissues, but there are other causes as well
Water blisters are actually comprised of blood serum, minus the clotting agents and blood cells. When the body detects damage to the outer layers of the skin, it will send blood to the area to heal and cool the skin. Acting as a protective shield, the serum/water pads the wound and prevents it from further harm. 
For vesiculation in geology, see vesicular texture. A blister is a small pocket of fluid within the upper layers of the skin, typically caused by forceful rubbing (friction), burning, freezing, chemical exposure or infection. Most blisters are filled with a clear fluid called serum or plasma. However, blisters can be filled with blood (known as blood blisters) or with pus (if they become infected). The word blister entered English in the 14th century. A blister may form when the skin has been damaged by friction or rubbing, heat, cold or chemical exposure. Fluid collects between the epidermis —the upper layer of the skin —and the layers below. This fluid cushions the tissue underneath, protecting it from further damage and allowing it to heal.
1 Burns, if severe enough, can produce blistering. 2  This includes burns from heat, chemicals, and sunburns. 3  Allergic eczema is a skin condition that is caused or worsened by allergens and can produce blisters. 4  Another type of eczema, dyshidrotic eczema, also causes blistering, but its cause is unknown. 1 It can cause red and inflamed skin, and also blistering. 2  Burns, if severe enough, can produce blistering. 3  This includes burns from heat, chemicals, and sunburns. 4
Blisters are small raised areas that are filled with fluid and located in the superficial layer of the skin. They look like bubbles on the surface of the skin. Although they are often caused by irritation or friction (such as with a poorly fitting shoe), blisters can also represent disease processes. Depending upon the cause of the blisters, blisters may occur singly or in groups. In contrast to abscesses and boils, which are collections of inflammatory fluid found deep in the tissues, blisters are found in the most superficial layer of skin. Small fluid-filled blisters are medically known as vesicles.