Small quantities of alluvially deposited diamonds have been known in Australia since the late 19th century, first found by prospectors searching for gold. However, no source volcanic pipe deposit was apparent. A systematic search of Western Australia for the source of these diamonds began in 1969. Argyle is the largest diamond producer in the world by volume, although due to the low proportion of gem-quality diamonds it is set to close by 2020. It is the only known significant source of pink diamonds, producing over 90% of the world's supply.
Diamonds. Diamonds are crystalline carbon and the hardest known substance. This photo shows diamonds from the Argyle Mine in northern Western Australia. Diamonds are brought to the surface from the mantle in a rare type of magma called kimberlite and erupted at a rare type of volcanic vent called a diatreme or pipe. Most of the diamonds are from the Argyle diamond pipe in northern Western Australia. The pipe at Argyle is made of lamproite, not kimberlite. The mine produced 27.8 million carats (1 ct = 200 mg; 5 carats = 1 gram) of low grade diamonds in 1993-1994.
The quality of diamonds can be split broadly into gem, near gem, industrial and boart categories. In rare cases 90% of diamonds in a deposit are of gem quality; but most economic deposits contain 20 to 40% gem quality diamonds. Cutting and polishing of a rough diamond may start with 'cleaving' (splitting) a diamond along its grain (weaker crystal planes) to divide it into smaller pieces or remove flaws and impurities. Very thin circular metal blades impregnated with diamond dust or lasers are used to saw across the grain of diamond.
The carbon atoms in diamonds are arranged in a strong, tetrahedral structure. Diamond is the hardest natural material known and is often used for industrial cutting and polishing tools. Diamond has a hardness of 10 on Mohs scale of mineral hardness, with 1 being the softest (talc) and 10 being the hardest.
Because diamonds are very hard (ten on the Mohs scale) they are often used as an abrasive. Most industrial diamonds are used for these purposes. Small particles of diamond are embedded in a saw blade, a drill bit or a grinding wheel for the purpose of cutting, drilling or grinding. They might also be ground into a powder and made into a diamond paste that is used for polishing or for very fine grinding. Gem diamonds are stones with color and clarity that make them suitable for jewelry or investment use. These stones are especially rare and make up a minor portion of worldwide diamond production. Gemstone diamonds are sold for their beauty and quality.
Australia is currently the world's largest producer of diamonds. Most of these diamonds are low quality and used for industrial purposes. Most of the diamonds are from the Argyle diamond pipe in northern Western Australia. The pipe at Argyle is made of lamproite, not kimberlite. The mine produced 27.8 million carats (1 ct = 200 mg; 5 carats = 1 gram) of low grade diamonds in 1993-1994.
Diamond Uses You Would Never Know! When people think of diamonds, they tend to think of jewelry, such as diamond rings, earrings, or necklaces. However, as the hardest naturally occurring substance on the planet, diamonds are used for many other, commonly unknown, purposes as well. Keep reading to learn about the unusual uses of diamonds. 
Diamonds. Diamonds are crystalline carbon and the hardest known substance. This photo shows diamonds from the Argyle Mine in northern Western Australia. Diamonds are brought to the surface from the mantle in a rare type of magma called kimberlite and erupted at a rare type of volcanic vent called a diatreme or pipe. Most of the diamonds are from the Argyle diamond pipe in northern Western Australia. The pipe at Argyle is made of lamproite, not kimberlite. The mine produced 27.8 million carats (1 ct = 200 mg; 5 carats = 1 gram) of low grade diamonds in 1993-1994.
The Argyle Diamond Mine is a diamond mine located in the East Kimberley region in the remote north of Western Australia. Argyle is the largest diamond producer in the world by volume, although due to the low proportion of gem-quality diamonds it is set to close by 2020. It is the only known significant source of pink diamonds, producing over 90% of the world's supply.