Obtaining Indiana Death Certificates. Indiana Death certificates have been maintained by the Indiana Department of Health, Vital Records Division for individuals that died in the state of Indiana since 1900. This option is the simplest and easiest way to get your Indiana Death Certificate. Order online and you will get your Indiana Death Certificate usually in less than a week. Many times you will have the option of receiving your vital record by next-day or second-day service.
In Indiana, you can obtain a death certificate if you can show that you have a direct interest in the death record and that the certificate is necessary to determine your personal or property rights, or for compliance with state or federal law. (Indiana Code § 16-37-3-3.) The law doesn’t say how quickly the certificate must be filed, but Indiana has an electronic death registry system to help registrations move quickly through the system. You may need to obtain copies of a death certificate for a number of reasons.
The form includes applicable fees, identification requirements, and mailing address. The cost for the first certificate is $10.00 and $4.00 for each additional copy. Please make check payable to Indiana State Department of Health. Average Processing Time: 2 weeks (5-10 business days). See requirements. Birth records in the ISDH Vital Records office begin with October 1907. Prior to October 1907, records of birth are filed only with the local health department in the county where the birth occurred. Death records in the ISDH Vital Records office begin with 1900.
Records can be obtained from our office, on a walk in basis, Monday through Friday (except legal Holidays), 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Indiana requires an applicant requesting a birth or death certificate, whether by mail or in person, to show identification and proof of relationship. Identification and eligibility requirements are listed below. 
Order official, certified Indiana (IN) vital death records online – quickly and securely. VitalChek is an official ordering service, authorized by the State of Indiana, to securely order certified death certificates and other Indiana (IN) vital records. VitalChek offers the convenience of ordering Indiana (IN) death certificates for your family from the privacy of your home or office, 24-hours a day, 7 days a week, with no hidden fees or unexplained charges.
Indiana Death Certificate Ordering Cost. The fee to search for an Indiana Death certificate is $10.00, which includes one certified copy of the Indiana Death certificate or a Certificate of Failure to Find.. For each additional copy of the Indiana Death certificate ordered at the same time, the fee is $4.00. This option is the simplest and easiest way to get your Indiana Death Certificate. Order online and you will get your Indiana Death Certificate usually in less than a week. Many times you will have the option of receiving your vital record by next-day or second-day service.
Indiana Death Certificate Ordering. This option is the simplest and easiest way to get your Indiana Death Certificate. Order online and you will get your Indiana Death Certificate usually in less than a week. Many times you will have the option of receiving your vital record by next-day or second-day service.
The form includes applicable fees, identification requirements, and mailing address. The cost for the first certificate is $8.00 and $4.00 for each additional copy. Please make check payable to Indiana State Department of Health. Average Processing Time: 2 weeks (5-10 business days). See requirements. Birth records in the ISDH Vital Records office begin with October 1907. Prior to October 1907, records of birth are filed only with the local health department in the county where the birth occurred. Death records in the ISDH Vital Records office begin with 1900.
Certified copies of birth and death certificates are available from the Indiana State Department of Health (ISDH) online with payment using a credit card through the Vital Records Online Ordering System. If you prefer to pay by check or money order, please submit the request via mail. See requirements. Birth records in the ISDH Vital Records office begin with October 1907. Prior to October 1907, records of birth are filed only with the local health department in the county where the birth occurred. Death records in the ISDH Vital Records office begin with 1900.