Before the beginning of the 2013-2014 NBA season, new instant replay rules were put into effect, saying that it can be used for: block/charge plays; to determine if an off-ball foul occurred before or after a shooting motion began in a successful shot attempt, or if the ball is released on a throw in. IndyCar also utilizes instant replay for similar reasons. 1  The most notable use of replay in recent years occurred during the 2008 Peak 300 at Chicagoland Speedway. 2  Video replay was also used extensively in the aftermath of the controversial 2002 Indianapolis 500.
Replay Rules and Systems in Other Sports. Here is a sampling of how replay is currently used in other sports: National Hockey League: The NHL began using instant replay in 1991. Instant replay in sports has sparked about as much controversy as it has eliminated since the feature was introduced more than 50 years ago, but it's hard to imagine watching games today without it.
The league had voted on the use of replay in early 1986. That vote and the format the first brand of instant replay in football was described in the NFL's 75 Seasons anthology, published in 1994: In 1986, the NFL decided to test the power of the rewind button.
On this date in football twenty-six years ago, the Cleveland Browns became the first team in NFL history to have a play reviewed by instant replay. Since coaches were not able to protest a call on the field, referees had the ultimate decision to initiate replay reviews. When “challenges” were implemented by the NFL in 1999, coaches were given the ability to demand for an instant replay review of a call that could either make or break a game.
National Basketball Association: The NBA began using instant replay to review last-second shots after the 2001-2002 season. Since then, instant replay has been expanded to include reviews of flagrant fouls and to determine if a field goal attempt was a 2-pointer or a 3-pointer. Instant replay in sports has sparked about as much controversy as it has eliminated since the feature was introduced more than 50 years ago, but it's hard to imagine watching games today without it.
Early Spread and Opinions of Instant Replay. Instant replay slowly became more ubiquitous. In 1965, the New York Times reported on a new feature of baseball broadcasts on ABC, which was the first network to use slow motion replay. Instant replay in sports has sparked about as much controversy as it has eliminated since the feature was introduced more than 50 years ago, but it's hard to imagine watching games today without it.
Confidence votes 13. Instant replay was first used in the NFL starting in the 1986 season. All replays were initiated by NFL replay officials and coaches were not allowed to 'challenge'. This system lasted until 1992 when the NFL owners voted to discontinue the use of instant replay. Replay returned to the NFL in 1999 and coaches were allowed to challenge a maximum of two plays per game. The first time instant replay was used in an NFL broadcast was during a preseason game between the 49ers and Colts on August 6, 1965.
On September 7th, 1986, instant replay was used for the first time in an NFL regular-season game. The contest pitted the defending Super Bowl Champions, the Chicago Bears, against the Cleveland Browns. That vote and the format the first brand of instant replay in football was described in the NFL's 75 Seasons anthology, published in 1994: In 1986, the NFL decided to test the power of the rewind button.
Major League Baseball (MLB) allows the use of instant replay review to allow league officials to review certain types of plays in order to determine the accuracy of the initial call of the umpires on the field. Reviews may be initiated either by a team's manager with limitations or by the umpires themselves. 1 Instant replay will not be utilized during 2015 Spring Training, but it will be in place for exhibition games at Major League ballparks prior to the start of the 2015 regular season.
Will the length of games be affected? A. The use of instant replay did not significantly affect game times as the length of the 57 games utilizing instant replay in 2004 was only three hours and 16 minutes, compared to three hours and 13 minutes in all 2003 contests. In addition, other leagues will also implement their own instant replay system after the NCAA approved the Big Ten's proposal to allow all NCAA conferences and independent institutions to experiment with the use of video replay for the 2005 season.