Sodium amide, NaNH2, is a salt that contains the very strong base, amide ion (NH2-). What will happen when sodium amide is dissolved in water? 
The term amide refers both to classes of compounds and to the functional group (R n E(O) x NR' 2) within those compounds. Amide can also refer to the conjugate base of ammonia (the anion H 2 N −) or of an organic amine (an anion R 2 N −). For discussion of these  anionic amides, see Alkali metal amides. The remainder of this article is about the carbonyl-nitrogen sense of amide. In the usual nomenclature, one adds the term amide to the stem of the parent acid's name. For instance, the amide derived from acetic acid is named acetamide (CH 3 CONH 2). IUPAC recommends ethanamide, but this and related formal names are rarely encountered.
Sodium amide is mainly used as a strong base in organic chemistry, often in liquid ammonia solution. It is the reagent of choice for the drying of ammonia (liquid or gaseous) . One of the main advantages to the use of sodamide is that it is rarely functions as a nucleophile. Sodium amide can be prepared by the reaction of sodium with ammonia gas, but it is usually prepared by the reaction in liquid ammonia using iron(III) nitrate as a catalyst. The reaction is fastest at the boiling point of the ammonia, c. −33 °C. An electride, [Na(NH 3) 6 ] + e − , is formed as an intermediate.
q This is the neutralization of the carboxylic acid by the hydroxide anion (just as in the case of base-promoted ester hydrolysis). q The overall reaction, starting from the amide, goes to completion because the carboxylate anion has greater resonance stabilization than the amide. As background for the acid catalyzed hydrolysis of amides, let’s consider the basicity of amides. q As in the case of esters or carboxylic acids, there are two basic sites in an amide function which could potentially be protonated, namely the carbonyl oxygen and the amide nitrogen.
Forms an explosive peroxide on storage. When sodium amide and chromic anhydride are mixed together a vigorous reaction results; the same occurs with other oxidizing agents including dinitrogen tetraoxide, potassium chlorate, sodium nitrite. [Mellor 11:234 1946-47]. Liable to deflagration upon heating and friction. 
INTRODUCING AMIDES This page explains what amides are and looks at their simple physical properties such as solubility and melting points. What are amides? Amides are derived from carboxylic acids. A carboxylic acid contains the-COOH group, and in an amide the-OH part of that group is replaced by an-NH2 group. So. . . amides contain the-CONH2 group. Some simple amides The most commonly discussed amide is ethanamide, CH3CONH2 (old name: acetamide). 
Sodium amide, commonly called sodamide, is the inorganic compound with the formula NaNH 2. Sodium amide can be prepared by the reaction of sodium with ammonia gas, but it is usually prepared by the reaction in liquid ammonia using iron(III) nitrate as a catalyst. The reaction is fastest at the boiling point of the ammonia, c. −33 °C. An electride, [Na(NH 3) 6 ] + e − , is formed as an intermediate.
FORMATION OF AMIDES. Interestingly, although the formation of an amide functionality from a carboxylic acid is strongly exergonic and therefore thermodynamically favorable, there is no simple and effective Bronsted acid or base catalyzed or promoted mechanism for this reaction. As background for the acid catalyzed hydrolysis of amides, let’s consider the basicity of amides. q As in the case of esters or carboxylic acids, there are two basic sites in an amide function which could potentially be protonated, namely the carbonyl oxygen and the amide nitrogen.
We can also consider the conjugate base of a carboxylic acid, a carboxylate anion, as a functional derivative of the carboxylic acid. Two additional functional group derivatives will be considered in this chapter, viz ., amides and acid chlorides. As background for the acid catalyzed hydrolysis of amides, let’s consider the basicity of amides. q As in the case of esters or carboxylic acids, there are two basic sites in an amide function which could potentially be protonated, namely the carbonyl oxygen and the amide nitrogen.