Steel wire armour is only used on multicore versions of the cable. A multicore cable, as the name suggests, is one where there are a number of different cores. When cable has only one core, aluminium wire armour (AWA) is used instead of steel wire. This is because the aluminium is non-magnetic. A magnetic field is produced by the current in a single core cable.
n. 1. A defensive covering, as of metal, wood, or leather, worn to protect the body against weapons. 2. A tough, protective covering, such as the bony scales covering certain animals or the metallic plates on tanks or warships. 3. A safeguard or protection: faith, the missionary's armor. 3. a protective covering of metal, esp. metal plates, used on warships, armored vehicles, etc. 4. mechanized units of military forces, as armored divisions. 5. Also called armament. any protective covering, as on certain animals, insects, or plants.
1. A defensive covering, as of metal, wood, or leather, worn to protect the body against weapons. 2. A tough, protective covering, such as the bony scales covering certain animals or the metallic plates on tanks or warships. 3. A safeguard or protection: faith, the missionary's armor. 4. 1. armored-protected by armor (used of persons or things military). armoured. armed forces, armed services, military, military machine, war machine-the military forces of a nation; their military is the largest in the region; the military machine is the same one we faced in 1991 but now it is weaker.
APC; armored personnel carrier; armoured personnel carrier ((military) an armored vehicle (usually equipped with treads) that is used to transport infantry). assault gun (an armored vehicle with the chassis of a tank (but no turret) and a large gun; used as an antitank weapon and to support infantry). Meaning: A vehicle that is protected by armor plate. Classified under: Nouns denoting man-made objects. Synonyms: armored vehicle; armoured vehicle. Hypernyms (armoured vehicle is a kind of...): self-propelled vehicle (a wheeled vehicle that carries in itself a means of propulsion). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of armoured vehicle): armored car; armoured car (a military combat vehicle on wheels with light armor (and usually a machine gun)). armored car; armoured car (an armor-plated truck with strong doors and locks used to transport money or valuables
• ARMOURED VEHICLE (noun). The noun ARMOURED VEHICLE has 1 sense: 1. a vehicle that is protected by armor plate. Familiarity information: ARMOURED VEHICLE used as a noun is very rare. Meaning: A vehicle that is protected by armor plate. Classified under: Nouns denoting man-made objects. Synonyms: armored vehicle; armoured vehicle. Hypernyms (armoured vehicle is a kind of...): self-propelled vehicle (a wheeled vehicle that carries in itself a means of propulsion). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of armoured vehicle): armored car; armoured car (a military combat vehicle on wheels with light armor (and usually a machine gun)). armored car; armoured car (an armor-plated truck with strong doors and locks used to transport money or valuables)
Steel wire armoured cable, commonly abbreviated as SWA, is a hard-wearing power cable designed for the supply of mains electricity. A multicore cable, as the name suggests, is one where there are a number of different cores. When cable has only one core, aluminium wire armour (AWA) is used instead of steel wire. This is because the aluminium is non-magnetic. A magnetic field is produced by the current in a single core cable.
The adjective ARMOURED has 2 senses: 1. used of animals; provided with protective covering. 2. protected by armor (used of persons or things military). Familiarity information: ARMOURED used as an adjective is rare. 
1. any covering worn as a defense against weapons. 2. a suit of armor. 3. a protective covering of metal, esp. metal plates, used on warships, armored vehicles, etc. 4. mechanized units of military forces, as armored divisions. 5. Also called armament. any protective covering, as on certain animals, insects, or plants.