IELTS, the International English Language Testing System, is designed to assess the language ability of candidates who need to study or work where English is used as the language of communication.
The IELTS provides a test that grades a person’s proficiency in the English language. There are 2 versions of the test: the Academic Module and the General Training Module.
IELTS. IELTS, the International English Language Testing System, is designed to assess the language ability of candidates who need to study or work where English is used as the language of communication. IELTS is required for entry to university in the UK and other countries.
The International English language testing system (IELTS) is the world’s most popular English language proficiency test for higher education and global migration, with over 2.2 million tests taken in the last year.
1. What is the IELTS. IELTS (International English Language Testing System) is a worldwide highly recognized official English exam. The IELTS is administered by the British Council, IDP: IELTS Australia and Cambridge English Language Assessment. Its aim is to evaluate the English level of the people that take it.
The International English Language Testing System™ (IELTS™) is recognized by more than 6000 institutions in over 135 countries. Thousands of universities accept the IELTS™ as proof of English proficiency as an admissions requirement. IELTS™ tests all four language skills: listening, reading, writing, and speaking.
IELTS is the most widely accepted English language test that uses a one-on-one speaking test to assess your English communication skills. This means that you are assessed by having a real-life conversation with a real person.
The IELTS test is developed by some of the world’s leading experts in language assessment. It has an excellent international reputation, and is accepted by over 9,000 organisations worldwide, including schools, universities, employers, immigration authorities and professional bodies.
The international English language testing system (IELTS) is the world’s most popular English language proficiency test for higher education and global migration, with over 2 million tests taken in the last year.