We also have art & art therapy badges in a variety of sizes and colors. You can easily add these to your site or blog as well. Here are the available color meaning charts: 1  Main Color Meanings & Symbolism Chart (contains 6 colors). 2  Color Symbolism Chart – RED. 3  Color Symbolism Chart – ORANGE. 
Christian Symbolism The definition and the meaning of Symbols or Icon in early religious art forms. A Catholic sign or icon, such as the Symbolism of Colors are used to represent abstract ideas or concepts-a picture that represents an idea. A religious icon, such as a Color, is an image or symbolic representation with sacred significance.
Symbolism of Colors. The Definition and Meaning of the Symbolism of Colors as a Christian Symbol Catholic Christian symbolism in art provides a clear graphic illustration which represents people or items of religious significance. A Catholic sign or icon, such as the Symbolism of Colors are used to represent abstract ideas or concepts-a picture that represents an idea. A religious icon, such as a Color, is an image or symbolic representation with sacred
People like different colors like they like different foods. Color also represents feelings, people, countries, cultures, and color symbolism. In the western world, the color red is seen frequently of symbolizing anger or aggression.
White: symbolized light, also in theology which influenced art. White was a symbol of purity, innocence and renewal of spiritual life. During the early Middle Ages angles were shown as white, but later were colorful. It truly depends on time and place: later Middle Ages had colorful angels. Also the symbolic language of colors in religious art was adopted by secular art, but the meaning of one color in religious art many not be exact the same in secular art. For example white was worn by French queens as the color of mourning.
1 http:// wegast.home.att.net /symbols/ , which explains the meaning of number symbolism and color symbolism in Christian art, along with other religious symbolism. 2  http://www.howarddavidjohnson.com/ , which showcases the artwork of Howard David Johnson. 1 Many elements of art can be used to symbolize different ideas in religious art. 2  I found that light was used most often. 3  Light can be used to symbolize knowledge, enlightenment, understanding, honor, and possibly even holiness. 4  Color was also used very prominently in the art by
Symbols in Christian Art. Christian artistic tradition is rife with symbolism. Generations of Christian artists have made use of symbolic libraries of colors, objects, animals, plants, gestures, and even the human body to interpret scripture and tradition through images. The following list gives a brief description of symbols used in Christian art, their meaning, and their origin when known. The pomegranate is an ancient symbol of wisdom. In Christian art, it often represents the Church, the seeds within individual congregations. The rose is the ancient symbol of Venus, the Roman goddess of love. In Christianity, the rose has a variety of meanings. A white rose is an emblem of purity; the red, martyrdom
Color Fun-Integrate art, science, and writing with these color-filled activities. Color Theory Tutorial Elements of Design-Value & Color Elimy Gems-This site includes color symbolism as well a how it relates to gems. Flower Symbolism-This page explains what flowers symbolize as well as the color of certain flowers. Color also represents feelings, people, countries, cultures, and color symbolism. In the western world, the color red is seen frequently of symbolizing anger or aggression.
Color symbolism in art and anthropology refers to the use of color as a symbol in various cultures. There is great diversity in the use of colors and their associations between cultures and even within the same culture in different time periods. White variously signifies purity, innocence, wisdom or death. Blue has similarly diverse meanings. Diversity in color symbolism occurs because color meanings and symbolism occur on an individual, cultural and universal basis. Color symbolism is also context-dependent and influenced by changes over time.