Temperatures of 100 degrees Fahrenheit are not normal for New York. The city averages just 12 days a year when the thermometer peaks at 90 °F or more. New York City Temperatures: Averages by Month. The numbers here tell you how hot and cold the weather usually is in New York City, USA during each month of the year. The average high and low temperatures are listed below monthly and annually for New York City, in both degrees Fahrenheit and Celsius. Maximums and minimums are only part of the temperature picture. To fill in the rest, there's information on how many days a month get above or below a given temperatu
August is the hottest month in York with an average temperature of 15°C (59°F) and the coldest is January at 3°C (37°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 9 in June. The wettest month is August with an average of 65mm of rain. 
How Often New York City Has Cold Temperatures. Low temperatures that drop below freezing are common in New York throughout winter. As well, November and April usually get the occasional night of frosty weather. New York on average has three nights a year when the thermometer sinks to 10 °F or lower. Just January and February normally have temperatures this cold. For 18 days a year, on average, the city's highest temperature doesn t get above freezing. New York City Temperatures: Averages by Month. The numbers here tell you how hot and cold the weather usually is in New York City, USA during each month of the year. The average high and low temperatures are listed below monthly and annually for New York City, in both degrees Fahrenheit and Celsius. Maximums and minimums are only part of the temperature picture. To fill in the rest, there's information on how many days a month get above or below a given temperature
This report describes the typical weather at the New York City (New York, United States) weather station over the course of an average year. It is based on the historical records from 1974 to 2012. Earlier records are either unavailable or unreliable. The warm season lasts from June 4 to September 15 with an average daily high temperature above 73A°73â. F the hottest day of the year Is july, 25 with an average high OF°82a 82â f and LOW°Of. 67a 67â f the cold Season lasts from December 5 to march 13 with an average daily HIGH°Temperature. below 46a 46â f
New York: Annual Weather Averages. July is the hottest month in New York with an average temperature of 25°C (76°F) and the coldest is January at 2°C (35°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 11 in July. The wettest month is May with an average of 114mm of rain. 
Summer. The climate on New York is generally humid continental which subsequently results in two longer summer and winter seasons. Summer generally develops in New York towards the end of April, where the temperature vastly increases from March with a maximum average temperature of around 13°C
Average Annual Temperatures in New York. Average annual temperatures for cities, towns, parks and lakes throughout New York state are listed below. The tables give the normal maximum and minimum yearly temperatures based on weather data collected from 1981 to 2010 by the US National Climatic Data Center. 
The Climate of New York state is generally humid continental, and features significant variation over the years. Winter temperatures average below freezing during January and February but near freezing along the Atlantic coastline, while summer like conditions prevail from June to August statewide. The remainder of New York State enjoys pleasantly warm summers, marred by only occasional, brief intervals of sultry conditions. Summer daytime temperatures usually range from the upper 70s to mid 80s °F (25 to 30 °C), over much of the state.