The Statue of Liberty was built in France 1882, was transported to America on October 28, 1886 and was then pronounced the Statue of Liberty. France and America both worked on the Statue of Liberty. France was building the actual statue and America was working on the foundation for the statue. Both had trouble financing their efforts so the statue was actually about 10 years late from the time the visionaries wanted to dedicate the statue.
The statue was completed in France in July, 1884 and arrived in New York Harbor in June of 1885 in 350 individual pieces and packed in 214 crates on board the French frigate Isere. The platform, on which the Statue of Liberty was built, was for the war of 1812 and called Fort Wood. It is shaped like a star. The statue was built to commemorate an alliance between the United States and France during the American Revolution from 1775 to 1783,and was donated by the French people. The Statue of Liberty was built because it represents freedom and liberty wich is very important to people everywhere. _Atira Nair.
The copper statue, designed by Frederic Frédéric Auguste, bartholdi A french, sculptor was built By Gustave eiffel and dedicated On october, 28. 1886 it was a gift to The United states from the people Of. france 
Drawing of the Statue of Liberty in Upper New York Bay. Designed by Frederic Frédéric bartholdi in collaboration with The french Engineer Gustave (eiffel who was responsible for its) frame and dedicated On october, 28, 1886 The statue Of liberty is a large neoclassical sculpture On Liberty island In New York. harbor The statue was a gift to the United States from the people of France. The project was a joint effort between the French and American peoples. The French would provide the statue while the Americans would provide the site and build the pedestal.
In 1886, The Statue of Liberty Monument was a given to the United States from France to celebrate the friendship the two endured during the American Revolution. The Statue of Liberty has over the years has symbolized the freedom and the democracy of the United States. The Statue of Liberty was to be a joint effort between the United States and France. France would build and design the Statue part and United States would complete the pedestal that would hold Lady Liberty.
The Statue of Liberty was then given to the United States and erected atop an American-designed pedestal on a small island in Upper New York Bay, now known as Liberty Island, and dedicated by President Grover Cleveland in 1886. The base of the Statue of Liberty's pedestal contains exhibits on the monument's history, including the original 1886 torch. Visitor access to the Statue of Liberty's torch was halted for good after German operatives set off an explosion on the nearby Black Tom peninsula in July 1916, during World War I.
The Building of the Statue of Liberty. The Statue of Liberty was a gift from France and was dedicated on October 28, 1886, on Liberty Island in New York Harbor. The Statue and the island on which it sits have varied histories. The Statue of Liberty was essentially a gift from France to the United States as a symbol of the bond that the two nations forged during the American Revolutionary War, but it took a lot of building and fund-raising to get the job done.
The statue was completed in France in July, 1884 and arrived in New York Harbor in June of 1885 in 350 individual pieces and packed in 214 crates on board the French frigate Isere. The platform, on which the Statue of Liberty was built, was for the war of 1812 and called Fort Wood. It is shaped like a star. France and America both worked on the Statue of Liberty. France was building the actual statue and America was working on the foundation for the statue. Both had trouble financing their efforts so the statue was actually about 10 years late from the time the visionaries wanted to dedicate
The Statue of Liberty was built in France 1882, was transported to America on October 28, 1886 and was then pronounced the Statue of Liberty. France and America both worked … on the Statue of Liberty. The statue was built to commemorate an alliance between the United States and France during the American Revolution from 1775 to 1783,and was donated by the French people. The Statue of Liberty was built because it represents freedom and liberty wich is very important to people everywhere. _Atira Nair.