Oklahoma-Looking for a good formula to estimate cost to replace standard curb and gutter. I am paying around $550 per CY for patios and driveways including tearout and hauloff of old slabs. But the sub I am working with wants twice that for curb and gutter work. Only broken curbs and gutters either side of driveways and around catch basins. A typical section of curb and gutter would be about 5-8 feet long. I estimate about 1/2 CY per section and a total of around 10 CY for the whole job.
Curb & Gutter. Concrete curb and gutter is generally installed at the perimeter of a road or parking lot. Not only does it define the edges of the lot, but it actually holds the pavement in place and serves as a “termination” to keep the pavement from expanding and deteriorating. 
The face, top, back, and flow line of the curb and gutter shall be tested with a 10-foot straightedge or curve template, longitudinally along the surface. Any deviation in excess of 1/4 inch shall be corrected at no additional cost to the Contracting Agency. 340.5 MEASUREMENT: Concrete curbs and gutters of the various types shown on the plans and in the proposal, will be measured along gutter flow line through inlets, catch basins, driveways, sidewalk ramps, etc., by the lineal foot to the nearest foot for each type, complete in place.
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Concrete Curb And Gutter Installation project. For a basic 25 feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install Concrete Curb And Gutter ranges between $22.45 - $30.02 per linear foot. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 2
Cost of Concrete Curb. 1  On average, homeowners should expect to pay approximately $16.90 for a linear square foot of concrete curb installed. 2  The maximum reported price per linear foot of concrete curb is $20.89. 3  The minimum reported price for concrete curb is $13.37 per linear foot. 1 On average, homeowners should expect to pay approximately $16.90 for a linear square foot of concrete curb installed. 2  The maximum reported price per linear foot of concrete curb is $20.89.
Re: Concrete Curb And Gutter Costs. I do a lot of curb replacement here in my area (the only approved contractor in two counties), I charge 22-25 afoot to remove and replace. In louisville, KY, the going rate is about 32-35 a foot. On a 2 ft wide roll curb, I figure 15 ft the the yrd. Only broken curbs and gutters either side of driveways and around catch basins. A typical section of curb and gutter would be about 5-8 feet long. I estimate about 1/2 CY per section and a total of around 10 CY for the whole job.
FYI, we are only repairing small sections of curb and gutter, not an entire street. Only broken curbs and gutters either side of driveways and around catch basins. A typical section of curb and gutter would be about 5-8 feet long. I estimate about 1/2 CY per section and a total of around 10 CY for the whole job.
$$$$$ OR $$$$$$$$$$$$$$. Comparative cost analysis of Curb and Gutter Type 2 (1-B & 1-M) and alternate of Type 4 Curb (Section B) (Key-Way). Prices are taken from 2008 CDOT Cost Data. This analysis is based on an installation of 1000 linear feet of curb in a median island installation for ease of comparison. Keyway Curb Type 4……. 
Curb, gutter, and storm drain. A curb (North American English), or kerb (British English), is the edge where a raised sidewalk (pavement in British English) or road median/central reservation meets a street or other roadway. Typical reveals are in the 4 to 8 inches (100 to 200 mm) range. Curbs at handicapped curb cuts (or kerb ramps, for example in Australia) should have no reveal, although Americans with Disabilities Act guidelines permit up to 0.25 inches (6.4 mm) of vertical reveal.