Confidence votes 2. Pretty much the same as England or the rest of the world. Only difference really is the accent and sports. And instead of just thinking we're better than any other country, we actually are. :) Ireland today has prospered the true Irish nation prevailed over all the civil war and the occupation of England. Ireland has few black residents, so the Irish were amused to learn that Barack Obama actually has Irish relatives, on his mother's side of the family (Mr. Obama is biracial, w … ith his father's side coming from Africa, and his mother's side, white people from Kansas who are of British and Irish ancestry).
There is no set definition of Irish culture but there are a few symbols which are unique to Ireland. Ireland is often called the ‘land of saints and scholars’ referring to the golden age of monastic learning, or ‘the emerald isle’ referring to the green landscape. Travellers are an indigenous group who have been part of Irish society for centuries. Travellers have distinct cultural values and traditions as well as their own language, Cant. Historically, Travellers played a role as bearers of culture including music and storytelling.
Irish Society in Uganda. To a great Irish Society Committee-It was an amazing St Paddies Weekend and it wouldn't have been possible without ALL the hard work put into it. Anna Schwartz could you contact the Irish Society in Uganda about tickets for the ball.
The Society’s main objectives are the promotion of Irish / Irish-Canadian culture and heritage, and the strengthening and support of the Irish / Irish-Canadian community in the Ottawa region. 
Gaelic Ireland was a Gaelic political and social order that existed in Ireland from sometime in prehistoric era until the early 17th century. Before the Norman invasion of 1169, Gaelic Ireland comprised the whole island. Gaelic culture and society was centred around the fine (clan, from Gaelic-Irish clann children (of the family)), and the landscape and history of Ireland was wrought with inter-fine relationships, marriages, friendships, wars, vendettas, trading, and so on.
The American Irish Historical Society is a center of Irish culture and knowledge located in New York City. You are very welcome to attend our events, conduct research in our library, and help support our mission. In continuous operation since 1897, the Society has been non-partisan and non-sectarian since its inception. 
A. The Irish vintage society is an umbrella group of vintage clubs, groups and individual enthusiasts interested in the preservation and restoration of old cars, tractors, Farm machinery, public service vehicles, and memorabilia from our social and agricultural heritage. A. Our Public Liability Insurance indemnifies the Irish Vintage Society Ltd and all Affiliated Clubs for their legal liability at law for any one accident causing bodily injury or damage to a third party up to a limit of indemnity of €6.5million. All vintage club meetings are covered under our Public Liability Policy.
Welcome to the Irish Fragile X Society (IFXS) online. We hope you will find this site informative and helpful, whether you are a parent/carer, a teacher, or other professional working with an individual affected by Fragile X syndrome. 
Please check our our calendar for upcoming events! For information on joining the Irish Society of Philadelphia or purchasing tickets for an upcoming event please contact Tom Brady at 215-715-0064 or Joe Cleary at 215-735-9099 or labor@cjtlaw.org Thank you. 
Welcome to Irish Ancestors, the website of the Irish Genealogical Research Society (IGRS). On this page we’d like to introduce you very briefly to the Society. We hope this overview will encourage you to delve further into the website to find out more about who we are, what we do and how the Society works. So, first things first, what is the Irish Genealogical Research Society? The Irish Genealogical Research Society is a learned Society established in 1936. The primary concern back then was to gather together copies of materials compiled before the 1922 Great Fire at the Public Record Office in Dublin.