Japan is a country of over three thousand islands extending along the Pacific coast of Asia. Its location is on the Pacific Ring of Fire.There is the sea of Japan to the West, … the sea of Okhotsk to the North, The yellow sea to the East and the East China sea to the South but The Pacific ocean feeds all of them. 5 people found this useful. Tanner Peterson. 31 Contributions.
The Pacific Ocean lies to the east while the Sea of Japan and the East China Sea separate Japan from the Asian continent. In terms of latitude, Japan coincides approximately with the Mediterranean Sea and with the city of Los Angeles in North America. mountains of the Chubu region through Niigata Prefecture to the Sea of Japan. Second in length is the Tone River, which flows through the Kanto Plain to the Pacific Ocean, and third in length is the Ishikari River in Hokkaido, at 268 kilometers.
The Sea of Japan is a marginal sea of the western Pacific Ocean, between the Asian mainland, the Japanese archipelago and Sakhalin. It is bordered by Japan, North Korea, Russia and South Korea. Like the Mediterranean Sea, it has almost no tides due to its nearly complete enclosure from the Pacific Ocean. This isolation also reflects in the fauna species and in the water salinity, which is lower than in the ocean. The use of the term Sea of Japan as the dominant name is a point of contention. South Korea wants the name East Sea to be used, either instead of or in addition to Sea of Japan; while North Korea prefers the name East Sea of Korea.
It is connected to both the Pacific Ocean and the Japan Sea via narrow passages, the most important ones being (for the former) the Boussole Strait (2318 m) and the Kruzenshtern Strait (1920 m) and (for the latter) the Tatarskyi Strait (50 m) and the Soya (or La Perouse) Strait (200 m). Prominent circulation features in the Japan Sea include the Tshushima Current, the Tsugaru Current, the Liman Current, the North Korea Current and the Mid-Japan Sea or Maritime Province Current. Water masses found there include Japan Sea Middle Water (or Intermediate Water) and Japan Sea Proper Water.
It has an area of 377,835 square kilometers (145,882 square miles), which makes it slightly smaller than the state of California. Japan is bordered by the Pacific Ocean on the north and east, by the Philippine Sea and the East China Sea to the south, and by the Sea of Japan / East Sea on the west. It has a coastline of 29,751 kilometers (18,487 miles). 
The ocean that Japan is located is the Pacific and the other seas are-Sea of Japan (East Sea) East China Sea (Southwest) Korea Strait Sea of Okhotsk (south). Edit. Share to: Answered. Japan is in Asia near China. Edit. Share to: 1  All About Japan's Culture Japan is situated in the Pacific Ocean in East Asia. 2  Japan is east of China, Russia, North Korea, and South Korea. 3  Japan's culture is strongly influenced by North America, Eu….
Located in the Pacific Ocean, it lies to the east of the Sea of Japan, the East China Sea, China, North Korea, South Korea and Russia, stretching from the Sea of Okhotsk in the north to the East China Sea and Taiwan in the south. The four largest are Honshu, Hokkaido, Kyushu, and Shikoku, which make up about ninety-seven percent of Japan's land area. Japan's population of 126 million is the world's tenth largest. Approximately 9.1 million people live in Tokyo, the capital city of Japan, which is the second largest city proper in the OECD.
The Pacific Ocean is the largest of the world's five oceans (followed by the Atlantic Ocean, Indian Ocean, Southern Ocean, and Arctic Ocean). Strategically important access waterways include the La Perouse, Tsugaru, Tsushima, Taiwan, Singapore, and Torres Straits. 
On the Asian continent, Russia is to the north and northwest of Japan, and North Korea, South Korea, and China are to the west. Further south, Taiwan lies to the west of Japan s Ryukyu Islands. Prominent circulation features in the Japan Sea include the Tshushima Current, the Tsugaru Current, the Liman Current, the North Korea Current and the Mid-Japan Sea or Maritime Province Current. Water masses found there include Japan Sea Middle Water (or Intermediate Water) and Japan Sea Proper Water.