If you've had a disastrous flight or want to praise Delta Air Lines for its impeccable customer service, chances are you want to go straight to the top and contact the company's president, Edward Bastian (as of 2011). Your email might go straight to spam and your telephone call maybe unanswered, so try writing a letter. This is an ideal way to take the time in getting all your thoughts across to the president of Delta. The mailing address for letters is Delta Air Lines Inc., P.O. Box 20706, Atlanta, GA 30320.
Delta Airlines Headquarters 1030 Delta Blvd. Atlanta, GA 30354. 1  Phone Number: You can contact Delta Airlines headquarters by phone at 1-404-715-2600. 2  The corporate hours are from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. 3  Monday to Friday. 4  Email: There is no corporate email listed on the Delta Airlines headquarters side of the website. 1 Email: There is no corporate email listed on the Delta Airlines headquarters side of the website. 2  In place of email contact, customers can contact Delta Airlines headquarters on Facebook [+] and Twitter [+] .
If you would like to contact the corporate offices of Delta Airlines, please use their contact information such as their phone number, website, and address listed above to contact them. However, sometimes staff from Delta Airlines headquarters do read the reviews on this website. Delta Airlines is one of the major airlines in the United States and its headquarter is located in Atlanta, Georgia. It has wide channel of network in both International and domestic areas.
Contact Corporate. Below is the contact information for Delta Headquarters, our Employment Offices, Investor Relations, and Media Relations. If you have a question or comment regarding an existing reservation, contact Reservations. Employment Verification. Employment verification for active, inactive, and retired employees must be requested online by the employee. To verify employment of a former, non-retired employee, contact 1-800-MY DELTA (800-693-3582) and press O to speak with a customer service representative.
Tagged as: delta air lines corporate office, delta airlines corporate office, delta corporate address, delta corporate headquarters, delta corporate office, delta corporate office address, delta corporate office phone number, delta headquarters, delta main office. I am a long time customer of Delta airlines and I frequently fly to Europe. I am a member of frequent flyer program Flying Blue. On August 31, 2014 (flight number DL1531) I asked the representative of Delta Airlines who was helping customers at the gate, her name was Emily, to register my miles from LAX to SEA.
Send an email. Edward Bastian's company email address is edward.bastian@delta.com. Take into consideration that you should only email Mr. Bastian and other Delta executives if you have not received a reply within six to eight weeks after emailing or telephoning the company. Step 2. If you prefer contact Delta's president by phone, dial (404) 715-2600 to reach the corporate headquarters. Your email might go straight to spam and your telephone call maybe unanswered, so try writing a letter. This is an ideal way to take the time in getting all your thoughts across to the president of Delta. The mailing address for letters is Delta Air Lines Inc., P.O. Box 20706, Atlanta, GA 30320.
The Delta Airlines headquarters is located in Atlanta, GA. The company offers contact information for the corporate office, including a mailing address and phone number. There is no email address specifically for the corporate office, but you can find Delta Airlines on social media. 1 Email: There is no corporate email listed on the Delta Airlines headquarters side of the website. 2  In place of email contact, customers can contact Delta Airlines headquarters on Facebook [+] and Twitter [+] .
Labels: Address, complaints, Contact, Corporate, customer service, Delta Airlines, Headquarters, HQ, Location, Offices, Phone, Ratings, Reviews. Location: Delta Airlines Corporate Offices. Next PostZoosk corporate office headquarters Previous PostHat world corporate office headquarters Home. Corporate Office Headquarters is your directory of major corporations headquarters, and corporate offices. We provide corporate contact information including addresses, email, fax numbers and telephone numbers.