Insulin is synthesized in significant quantities only in beta cells in the pancreas. It is secreted primarily in response to elevated blood concentrations of glucose. Insulin thus can regulate blood glucose and the body senses and responds to rise in blood glucose by secreting insulin. Insulin is produced in the islets of Langerhans in the pancreas. The name insulin comes from the Latin ''insula'' for island from the cells that produce the hormone
Insulin (from the Latin, insula meaning island) is a peptide hormone produced by beta cells in the pancreas. It regulates the metabolism of carbohydrates and fats by promoting the absorption of glucose from the blood to skeletal muscles and fat tissue and by causing fat to be stored rather than used for energy. 
Insulin is a hormone that is produced by the pancreas and that regulates the level of glucose — a simple sugar that provides energy — in the blood. Human bodies require a steady amount of glucose throughout the day, and that glucose comes from the foods that people eat. 1 Insulin and glucagon work together to control the body's blood-glucose levels, or blood-sugar levels. 2  Insulin can be used in the form of an injection to help control glucose levels in those suffering with Type 1 diabetes
Insulin is a hormone produced by the pancreas that helps unlock the body's cells so that sugar (glucose) from the food we eat can be used by the cells for energy. In people with type 2 diabetes, a combination of problems occurs, and scientists aren't really sure which is the chicken and which is the egg. 
Continue ReadingPatient Guide to Insulin: About Diabetes. Insulin is a hormone made by the pancreas that allows your body to use sugar (glucose) from carbohydrates in the food that you eat for energy or to store glucose for future use. Insulin helps keeps your blood sugar level from getting too high (hyperglycemia) or too low (hypoglycemia). Insulin then attaches to and signals cells to absorb sugar from the bloodstream. Insulin is often described as a “key,” which unlocks the cell to allow sugar to enter the cell and be used for energy. After you eat, cells in your pancreas are signaled to release insulin into
Insulin is a hormone that is important for metabolism and utilization of energy from the ingested nutrients-especially glucose. Insulin is produced in the islets of Langerhans in the pancreas. The name insulin comes from the Latin ''insula'' for island from the cells that produce the hormone
Insulin is a hormone that is produced and stored in the beta cells of the pancreas. Insulin helps transport glucose, the body's main source of energy, from the blood to within cells. If a person makes too little insulin or is resistant to its effects, cells starve. 
Insulin is a hormone. It makes our body's cells absorb glucose from the blood. The glucose is stored in the liver and muscle as glycogen and stops the body from using fat as a source of energy. When there is very little insulin in the blood, or none at all, glucose is not taken up by most body cells. When this happens our body uses fat as a source of energy. Insulin is also a control signal to other body systems, such as amino acid uptake by body cells. Insulin is also released when glucose is present in the blood. After eating carbohydrates, blood glucose levels rise. Insulin makes it possible for glucose to enter our body's cells-without glucose in our cells they would not be able to function. Without insulin the glucose cannot enter our