A Pentecostal is a Christian who believes in the baptism of the Holy Spirit with the evidence of speaking in tongues. An Evangelical is a Christian who believes in regularly sharing their faith. It is possible to be both an Evangelical and a Pentecostal at the same time. An evangelical might also be a fundamentalist; the difference is the emphasis of the word rather than either/or. Fundamentalists believe in a strict adherence to the Bible a … nd usually a literal reading of it. Evangelicals generally hold Bible teaching as more authoritative than church traditions.
Sometimes Pentecostal refers to a specific denomination or church with the word Pentecostal in the name. Other times it is an umbrella term that refers to all that hold to the distinctive I mentioned. Two major Pentecostal denominations would be the Foursquare Church and Assembly of God. Felicia: The answer is yes and no. By evangelical what people in the United States generally mean refers to those Christians who believe in the essentials of the historic Christian Faith.
An evangelical might also be a fundamentalist; the difference is the emphasis of the word rather than either/or. Fundamentalists believe in a strict adherence to the Bible a … nd usually a literal reading of it. Evangelicals generally hold Bible teaching as more authoritative than church traditions. *Mormons believe that baptism is essential for salvation, but Pentecostals do not (except Oneness Pentecostals) *Pentecostals are Trinitarian, Mormons are Non-Trinitarian (except Oneness Pentecostals) *Pentecostals believe that 'dancing in the Spirit' and speaking in unkown tongues are manifestations of the Spirit.
A fundamental difference between the two Christian groups is that, in the Pentecostal churches, there appears to be a requirement of the visible manifestation of the Holy Spir … it, often by speaking in tongues, or prophesying. The Lutheran church holds to no such need for visible evidence. *Mormons believe that baptism is essential for salvation, but Pentecostals do not (except Oneness Pentecostals) *Pentecostals are Trinitarian, Mormons are Non-Trinitarian (except Oneness Pentecostals) *Pentecostals believe that 'dancing in the Spirit' and speaking in unkown tongues are manifestations of the Spirit.
A fundamental difference between the two Christian groups is that, in the Pentecostal churches, there appears to be a requirement of the visible manifestation of the Holy Spir … it, often by speaking in tongues, or prophesying. The Lutheran church holds to no such need for visible evidence. An evangelical might also be a fundamentalist; the difference is the emphasis of the word rather than either/or. Fundamentalists believe in a strict adherence to the Bible a … nd usually a literal reading of it. Evangelicals generally hold Bible teaching as more authoritative than church traditions.
Sometimes Pentecostal refers to a specific denomination or church with the word Pentecostal in the name. Other times it is an umbrella term that refers to all that hold to the distinctive I mentioned. Two major Pentecostal denominations would be the Foursquare Church and Assembly of God. The Church of God of Christ is the largest US Pentecostal denomination, but the Assemblies of God is the best-known and most pentecostal denomination. Pentecostals are denominational, but a lot of people are not in Pentecostal denominations but believe in the same thing.
Fundamentalists believe in the same thing evangelicals do but are more literal in their application of the Bible. Fundamentalists also believe in a stronger separation from the secular world, which often means they are less involved in politics and public policy than evangelicals. The Church of God of Christ is the largest US Pentecostal denomination, but the Assemblies of God is the best-known and most pentecostal denomination. Pentecostals are denominational, but a lot of people are not in Pentecostal denominations but believe in the same thing.
A Pentecostal is a Christian who believes in the baptism of the Holy Spirit with the evidence of speaking in tongues. An Evangelical is a Christian who believes in regularly s … haring their faith. It is possible to be both an Evangelical and a Pentecostal at the same time. *Mormons believe that baptism is essential for salvation, but Pentecostals do not (except Oneness Pentecostals) *Pentecostals are Trinitarian, Mormons are Non-Trinitarian (except Oneness Pentecostals) *Pentecostals believe that 'dancing in the Spirit' and speaking in unkown tongues are manifestations of the Spirit.
Best Answer: evangelical is biblical. Pentecost was an annual celebration that happened to be the day when the early church was filled with the holy spirit. 2 Timothy 4:5 But you, keep your head in all situations, endure hardship, do the work of an evangelist, discharge all the duties of your ministry. I think basically the Pentecostal Christians are more involved in the spiritual gifts (particularly speaking in tongues) as a part of their worship. And the Evangelicals are more involved with proselytizing, spreading the gospel, mission work, converting souls to Chrisitianity, etc.