The circulatory system of the lungs is the portion of the cardiovascular system in which oxygen-depleted blood is pumped away from the heart, via the pulmonary artery, to the lungs and returned, oxygenated, to the heart via the pulmonary vein. Above is a diagram of an open circulatory system. An open circulatory system is made up of a heart, vessels, and hemolymph. This diagram shows how the hemolymph, fluid present in most invertebrates that is equivalent to blood, is circulated throughout the body of a grasshopper.
The circulatory system is a vast network of organs and vessels that is responsible for the flow of blood, nutrients, hormones, oxygen and other gases to and from cells. The pulmonary circulatory system sends oxygen-depleted blood away from the heart through the pulmonary artery to the lungs and returns oxygenated blood to the heart through the pulmonary veins, according to the Mayo Clinic.
As the heart beats, it pumps blood through a system of blood vessels, called the circulatory system. The vessels are elastic, muscular tubes that carry blood to every part of the body. Blood is essential. The heart is an amazing organ. It pumps oxygen and nutrient-rich blood throughout the body to sustain life. This fist-sized powerhouse beats (expands and contracts) 100,000 times per day, pumping five or six quarts of blood each minute, or about 2,000 gallons per day.
The heart is a pumping system which takes in deoxygenated blood through the veins and delivers it to the lungs for oxygenation before pumping it into the various arteries (which provide oxygen and nutrients to body tissues by transporting the blood throughout the body). The cardiovascular system of the head and neck includes the vital arteries that provide oxygenated blood to the brain and organs of the head, including the mouth and eyes. It also includes the veins that return deoxygenated blood from these organs to the heart.
The systemic circulation is a major portion of the circulatory system. The network of veins, arteries and blood vessels transports oxygenated blood from the heart, delivers oxygen and nutrients to the body's cells and then returns deoxygenated blood back to the heart. The system of blood vessels in the human body measure about 60,000 miles (96,560 kilometers). Arteries carry oxygen-rich blood from the heart through the body. Veins carry oxygen-poor blood back to the heart. The superior vena cava carries oxygen-poor blood in
The systemic circulation is the portion of the circulatory system is the network of veins, arteries and blood vessels that transports blood from heart, services the body's cells and then re-enters the heart, the Mayo Clinic noted. The pulmonary circulatory system sends oxygen-depleted blood away from the heart through the pulmonary artery to the lungs and returns oxygenated blood to the heart through the pulmonary veins, according to the Mayo Clinic.
The essential components of the human cardiovascular system are the heart, blood and blood vessels. It includes the pulmonary circulation, a loop through the lungs where blood is oxygenated; and the systemic circulation, a loop through the rest of the body to provide oxygenated blood. Above is a diagram of an open circulatory system. An open circulatory system is made up of a heart, vessels, and hemolymph. This diagram shows how the hemolymph, fluid present in most invertebrates that is equivalent to blood, is circulated throughout the body of a grasshopper.
The circulatory system is often seen to comprise both the cardiovascular system, which distributes blood, and the lymphatic system, which circulates lymph. These are two separate systems. The passage of lymph for example takes a lot longer than that of blood. Above is a diagram of an open circulatory system. An open circulatory system is made up of a heart, vessels, and hemolymph. This diagram shows how the hemolymph, fluid present in most invertebrates that is equivalent to blood, is circulated throughout the body of a grasshopper.
In addition to blood, the circulatory system moves lymph, which is a clear fluid that helps rid the body of unwanted material. The heart, blood, and blood vessels make up the cardiovascular component of the circulatory system. It includes the pulmonary circulation, a loop through the lungs where blood is oxygenated. The pulmonary circulatory system sends oxygen-depleted blood away from the heart through the pulmonary artery to the lungs and returns oxygenated blood to the heart through the pulmonary veins, according to the Mayo Clinic.