click a star to vote. omfg, the song is about gay sex with your friend. Ive been waiting hours for this, i made my self so sick i wish i stayed asleep today and also i never thought you'de be this close to me... and also he's in a closet. It was made when gays where extremely frowned upon. In the end he drowns in the video. This song is an abstract reference to the fear that life will one day end. The day he sings about is a reference to a lifetime. Tonight is the end of this day. He condenses a lifetime into a single day. It is child like in that a child also fears the coming darkness of night as a form of death.
I just wanna be close to you. And show you the way I feel. I just wanna be close to you. And do all the things you want me to. I just wanna be close to you. And show you the way I feel. Songwriters. CARROLL, DINA / LOWIS, NIGEL. Published by. Lyrics © Universal Music Publishing Group, DOWNTOWN MUSIC PUBLISHING LLC. When I'm lying in the midnight hour. Holding you just like a dream. Love is never what it seems. When we touch. And you're holdin' me the way you do. Girl, you make my dreams come true. You make my dreams come true
In 1985, Sting worked with Dire Straits on  Money For Nothing , which has a chorus that sounds very similar to this (compare the lines Don't stand so close to me with I want my MTV). Sting did not want a songwriting credit, but his record company thought he should get one so they could receive royalties. 
Don't Stand So Close to Me  is a 1980 song and hit single by the British rock band The Police. It concerns a schoolgirl's crush on her young teacher which leads to an affair, which in turn is discovered. The Police won the 1982 Grammy Award for Best Rock Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocal for this song. Let's exploit that. in a 2001 interview for the concert DVD ...All This Time, Sting denied that the song is autobiographical. Don't Stand So Close to Me appeared on The Police's album Zenyatta Mondatta (A&M), and became a hit No. 1 UK single along with a corresponding music video.
My older sister always called this song Glenn Music because I think it reminded her of my mood(s) which tend to change often. Great song simple lyrics and too the point. Glenn-Edwardsville, Il. To me, this song is beautiful because it professes a type of love for someone that sets you straight and calms you down. Robert Smith (from Q Magazine's 1001 Best Songs Ever): It's weird because of all the songs we've written, Close To Me doesn't spring to mind as one of our best songs. It was a slightly surreal moment on the record and it wasn't even a definite album track during the recording
All these things I do to keep you close to me. And every day's another day from what we used to be. I don't know what I've been thinking. 'Cause this is much like hell. It's days like this, I must insist. I'm not doing so well. Oh no, get lost in you. Like you know, I often do. 
This song describes a type of love for someone that turns your world upside down but now that you have actually found it you are calm and you feel complete. The lyrics build up to something this person can't wait any longer for, this something can mean many different things to whoever the listener is. 