1 Hepatitis B. The hepatitis B virus (HBV) is found in the blood, semen, vaginal secretions, and other body fluids of people who have hepatitis B. Infection occurs when there is contact with these fluids -- for example, during sex with an infected person or exposure to contaminated needles or personal items. In the U.S., the main threats are hepatitis A, hepatitis B, and hepatitis C. They cause similar symptoms, including fever, fatigue, loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, joint pain, clay-colored bowel movements, and jaundice (yellow skin or eyes).
The incubation period (the time between initial contact with the virus and onset of the disease) for hepatitis B ranges from 45 to 180 days with an average of 60 to 90 days. The length of the incubation period depends on the amount of virus to which a person is exposed. Direct contact with infected blood can transmit the hepatitis B virus through: 1  Punctures of the skin with blood-contaminated needles, lancets, scalpels, or other sharps. 2  Splashes to skin bearing minute scratches, abrasions, burns, or even minor rashes. 3  Splashes to mucous membranes in the mouth, nose, or eyes.
Key facts. 1  Hepatitis A is a viral liver disease that can cause mild to severe illness. 2  The hepatitis A virus is transmitted through ingestion of contaminated food and water or through direct contact with an infectious person. 1 The hepatitis A virus is transmitted through ingestion of contaminated food and water or through direct contact with an infectious person. 2  Almost everyone recovers fully from hepatitis A, but very small proportions die from fulminant hepatitis.
1 Hepatitis A is a viral liver disease that can cause mild to severe illness. 2  The hepatitis A virus is transmitted through ingestion of contaminated food and water or through direct contact with an infectious person. 1 The hepatitis A virus is transmitted through ingestion of contaminated food and water or through direct contact with an infectious person. 2  Almost everyone recovers fully from hepatitis A, but very small proportions die from fulminant hepatitis.
HEPATITIS A. Hepatitis A is caused by the hepatitis A virus (HAV), a 27-nm ribonucleic acid (RNA) agent that is classified as a picornavirus. Patients with illness caused by HAV characteristically have abrupt onsets of symptoms including fever, malaise, anorexia, nausea, abdominal discomfort, dark urine, and jaundice. Hepatitis B Prophylaxis. Two types of products are available for prophylaxis against hepatitis B. Hepatitis B vaccines, first licensed in 1981, provide active immunization against HBV infection, and their use is recommended for both preexposure and postexposure prophylaxis.
There are other kinds of viral hepatitis such as hepatitis A, hepatitis B, hepatitis D, and hepatitis E. These diseases and the viruses that cause them are not related to hepatitis C even though they also affect the liver. They may have other, different symptoms and different modes of transmission. 
Hepatitis B is an infectious liver disease. It is caused by the hepatitis B virus (HBV). Infections of hepatitis B occur only if the virus is able to enter the blood stream and reach the liver. Once in the liver, the virus reproduces and releases large numbers of new viruses into the bloodstream. To combat the disease, the body has several defenses. Direct contact with infected blood can transmit the hepatitis B virus through: 1  Punctures of the skin with blood-contaminated needles, lancets, scalpels, or other sharps. 2  Splashes to skin bearing minute scratches, abrasions, burns, or even minor rashes. 3  Splashes to mucous membranes in the mouth, nose, or eyes.
HEPATITIS B. Hepatitis B infection is caused by the hepatitis B virus (HBV), a 42-nm, double-shelled deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) virus of the class hepadnaviridae. Several well-defined antigen-antibody systems are associated with HBV infection (Table_1). Hepatitis B Prophylaxis. Two types of products are available for prophylaxis against hepatitis B. Hepatitis B vaccines, first licensed in 1981, provide active immunization against HBV infection, and their use is recommended for both preexposure and postexposure prophylaxis.
Hepatitis A is a liver disease caused by the hepatitis A virus. The virus is primarily spread when an uninfected (and unvaccinated) person ingests food or water that is contaminated with the faeces of an infected person. 1 The hepatitis A virus is transmitted through ingestion of contaminated food and water or through direct contact with an infectious person. 2  Almost everyone recovers fully from hepatitis A, but very small proportions die from fulminant hepatitis.