According to the BLS, IRS enrolled agents earn an average salary of $91,507 per year. This is higher than tax examiners who only receive a yearly salary of $42,035 and tax specialists who earn $63,547 per year. 
Requirements for Enrolled Agents: • An enrolled agent (EA) does not need a college degree; rather they must demonstrate special competence in tax matters by passing all three parts of the IRS Special Enrollment Examination. 
They also represent taxpayers before all administrative levels of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), including examination, collection, and appeals functions. Accountants looking to become an Enrolled Agent (EA) must pass the Special Enrollment Examination (SEE). CPATrainingCenter.com provides accountants interested in taking the SEE Exam with several options for training courses that will better prepare them for this examination and earning the Enrolled Agent designation. 
Unlike CPAs, enrolled agents are eligible to practice in all states without additional licensing requirements. The job of an enrolled agent is to advise, represent and prepare tax returns for individuals, corporations and trusts. Adding this useful certification to your resume could be a great career move. Maintaining Your EA Certification. Part of becoming an enrolled agent means maintaining your EA certification in the future. Enrolled agents are required to renew their license every 3 years. This ensures that EAs are up-to-date on any changes and additions to the tax code. The IRS will notify you when your renewal cycle is approaching
Becoming an EA was one of the best things that I have done, for myself, as well as my practice! Gina D Jones, EA; Delhi, LA. Enrolled agents have demonstrated competence in tax matters, allowing them to represent taxpayers before the Internal Revenue Service. Earning the EA license proves dedication and a commitment to providing the most knowledgeable service possible for his/her clients. 
Verify the Status of an Enrolled Agent. Find out how to verify the status of an enrolled agent. Enrolled Retirement Plan Agent Program. Information for enrolled retirement plan agents and individuals who wish to become enrolled retirement plan agents. Find out the latest news affecting enrolled agents. Enrolled Agent Information. Learn about the enrolled agent program. Become an Enrolled Agent. Follow these steps to become
These are just some of the many reasons to become an Enrolled Agent. If you’re in need of the training to prepare for the SEE, Our Chartered Tax Certificate Programs will teach you everything you need to learn in order to ready yourself for the SEE. Whether you are a tax preparer already or are considering a career in tax preparation, you’ve likely been thinking about whether or not to become an Enrolled Agent. Becoming an EA has many benefits and should be something all tax preparers aspire to.
They you've come to the right place! CPA Training Center offers Enrolled Agent training and certification courses for those individuals interested in earning the prestigious Enrolled Agent (EA) designation. The Enrolled Agent (EA) Designation. An Enrolled Agent has earned the right to represent taxpayers before the Internal Revenue Service worldwide. Enrolled agents, like attorneys and certified public accountants (CPAs), may represent all taxpayers from individuals with simple tax returns to Fortune 100 tax returns.
Posted on September 5, 2013 by Chuck. An Enrolled Agent is the highest credential you can receive as a tax professional. Enrolled Agents are unrestricted as to which taxpayers they can represent, what types of tax matters they can handle, and which IRS offices they can represent clients before. 1 Our Chartered Tax Professional Certificate Program – which is the perfect pathway to obtaining your IRS Enrolled Agent status. 2  This program is a series of 5 federal tax courses in individual and small business income tax preparation.