In humans, musicogenic epilepsy is the term for a condition in which seizures are produced by tones or music. Music-induced seizures are partial rather than generalized. The type of stimuli producing such seizures varies, and spontaneous seizures may occur in these patients.
Seizures and epilepsy aren't a disease. Epilepsy is a reflection that there is something different about that person's brain functioning.. Pediatric epilepsy may be related to a temporary condition, such as withdrawal from certain drugs, or abnormal levels of sodium or glucose in the blood.
Epilepsy is the medical name for having seizures again and again, when there doesn't seem to be a clear cause. In an epilepsy seizure, your brain has a sudden burst of electrical activity. When that happens, you might start shaking without being able to control it.
If you are a woman who has epilepsy, there are some important things you should know before using birth control or planning a pregnancy. Any birth control that is safe for women, in general, is safe for women with epilepsy.
Re: Definition of epilepsy and epileptic seizures. OK. However, we question the need for including the consequences of epilepsy into the definition. To name it epilepsy in patients with one unprovoked seizure plus an enduring seizure generating lesion is in agreement with current practice.
Photosensitive epilepsy is the most common type of reflex epilepsy. Clinical photoconvulsive seizures or subclinical photoparoxysmal responses occur when an individual is exposed to intermittent light stimulation (ILS), consisting of flashes of light of a particular frequency.
Overview. Reflex epilepsy is a condition in which seizures can be provoked habitually by an external stimulus or, less commonly, internal mental processes.
To understand what a seizure is, you must first understand how the brain works. Your brain is comprised of thousands of neurons – cells that process and transmit information by interacting with each other. These interactions can be observed and assessed through an electroencephalogram (EEG).