Mimesis is integral to the relationship between art and nature, and to the relation governing works of art themselves. Michael Taussig describes the mimetic faculty as the nature that culture uses to create second nature, the faculty to copy, imitate, make models, explore difference, yield into and become Other. Perhaps there is none of his higher functions in which his mimetic faculty does not play a decisive role. --- Walter Benjamin, On the Mimetic Faculty 1933. The term mimesis is derived from the Greek mimesis, meaning to imitate [1]. The OED defines mimesis as a figure of speech, whereby the words or actions of another are imitated and the deliberate imitation of the behavior of one group of people by another as a factor in social change [2]
In fact, mimesis is the process by which art reflects and reinterprets the world around it. One form, visual mimesis, is difficult to fit in a literary context, since it involves artistic portrayals of real-life images, such as Egyptian columns carved in the shapes of palm trees, or landscape paintings. This type of mimesis is found throughout visual art.
In ancient Greece, mimesis was an idea that governed the creation of works of art, in particular, with correspondence to the physical world understood as a model for beauty, truth, and the good. Plato contrasted mimesis, or imitation, with diegesis, or narrative. In art history, mimesis, realism and naturalism are used, often interchangeably, as terms for the accurate, even illusionistic, representation of the visual appearance of things.
Aristotle views mimesis as something that nature and humans have in common-that is not only embedded in the creative process, but also in the constitution of the human species. In 17th and early 18th century conceptions of aesthetics, mimesis is bound to the imitation of (empirical and idealized) nature. Perhaps there is none of his higher functions in which his mimetic faculty does not play a decisive role. --- Walter Benjamin, On the Mimetic Faculty 1933. The term mimesis is derived from the Greek mimesis, meaning to imitate [1]. The OED defines mimesis as a figure of speech, whereby the words or actions of another are imitated and the deliberate imitation of the behavior of one group of people by another as a factor in social change [2]
Dionysius' concept marked a significant depart from the concept of mimesis formulated by Aristotle 's in the 4th century BCE, which was only concerned with imitation of nature instead of the imitation of other authors. In art history, mimesis, realism and naturalism are used, often interchangeably, as terms for the accurate, even illusionistic, representation of the visual appearance of things.
For Aristotle, mimesis describes a process involving the use by different art forms of different means of representation, different manners of communicating that representation to an audience, and different levels of moral and ethical behavior as objects of the artistic representation. First, we recall the important passage in chapter 4 (1448b4-17), where Aristotle tells us that mimesis is by nature a part of human experience from childhood on, that it is the basis of our first learning experiences, and that all human beings derive pleasure from it.
Mimesis, or imitation, as he referred to it, was a crucial concept for Samuel Taylor Coleridge 's theory of the imagination. Coleridge begins his thoughts on imitation and poetry from Plato, Aristotle, and Philip Sidney, adopting their concept of imitation of nature instead of other writers. In art history, mimesis, realism and naturalism are used, often interchangeably, as terms for the accurate, even illusionistic, representation of the visual appearance of things.
Lesson Summary. In literature, mimesis is the process by which the work reflects and reinterprets the world around it. Derived from a Greek verb meaning 'to imitate,' the philosopher Aristotle adapted the term to fit his idea that art mimics whom and what we observe in the real world. One form, visual mimesis, is difficult to fit in a literary context, since it involves artistic portrayals of real-life images, such as Egyptian columns carved in the shapes of palm trees, or landscape paintings. This type of mimesis is found throughout visual art.