Background. Mesenteric lymphadenitis refers to inflammation of the mesenteric lymph nodes. This process may be acute or chronic, depending on the causative agent. It causes a clinical presentation that is often difficult to differentiate from acute appendicitis. 
Also known as mesenteric lymphadenitis, mesenteric adenitis refers to medical condition in which the lymph nodes that lie in the abdomen mesentery become inflamed. Abdomen mesentery refers to the tissue that connects your intestines in to the abdominal wall’s internal lining. 
Dr Yuranga Weerakkody ◉ and Radswiki et al. Mesenteric adenitis is a self-limiting inflammatory process that affects the mesenteric lymph nodes in the right lower quadrant, and is clinically often mistaken for acute appendicitis. 
The most common cause of mesenteric adenitis is bacterial or viral infection. The infection is present in the lymph nodes within the mesentery, a membrane that attaches the intestines to the abdominal wall. When lymph nodes are infected, they become inflamed, resulting in symptoms. 
Mesenteric Adenitis, which is also called mesenteric lymphadenitis, is an inflammation of lymph nodes in the abdomen, specifically, the mesentery part of the abdomen. It is normally due to infection of the tissues which connect the intestines to the abdominal wall. Usually, the pain occurs in the right lower side of the abdomen which is sometimes mistakenly diagnosed as acute appendicitis. This disease, which is more common in children than in adults, normally affects more boys than girls. Mesenteric Adenitis Showing Inflammation of the Lymph Nodes in the Abdomen.
1 Abdominal pain is one of the common symptoms of mesenteric adenitis. 2  It can be located in the center or lower right side of the abdomen. 3  Nausea and vomiting, if left untreated, can cause dehydration in patients with mesenteric adenitis. 4  Abdominal tenderness is due to the inflammation of the lymph nodes in the abdomen. Usually, the pain occurs in the right lower side of the abdomen which is sometimes mistakenly diagnosed as acute appendicitis. This disease, which is more common in children than in adults, normally affects more boys than girls. Mesenteric Adenitis Showing Inflammation of the Lymph Nodes in the Abdomen.
It usually clears up without treatment. Sometimes mesenteric adenitis is difficult to diagnose, and it may be difficult to distinguish it from other causes of abdominal pain such as appendicitis. Mesenteric adenitis means swollen (inflamed) lymph glands in the tummy (abdomen), which cause abdominal pain. It is not usually serious and usually gets better without treatment. Mesenteric adenitis is a fairly common cause of abdominal pain in children aged under 16 years. It is much less common in adults.
Mesenteric adenitis, sometimes known as mesenteric lymphadenitis, refers to a condition in which the lymph nodes in the mesentery of the abdomen become inflamed. The mesentery is the tissue that connects the intestines to the internal lining of the abdominal wall. Inflammation of the mesenteric lymph nodes results in abdominal pain, tenderness and fever. The most common cause of mesenteric adenitis is a viral infection within the intestines.
Common infections that cause mesenteric lymphadenitis include: 1  Gastroenteritis. 2  This may result from viral infections such as rotavirus or norovirus. 3  It may also result from bacterial infections such as salmonella, staphylococcus, or streptococcus. 4  Gastroenteritis is often misnamed stomach flu. 5  Yersinia enterocolitica. Other infections that cause mesenteric lymphadenitis include: 1  Direct or indirect infections related to HIV. 2  Tuberculosis. 3  Whipple disease. 4  Acute terminal ileitis.
Other infections that cause mesenteric lymphadenitis include: 1  Direct or indirect infections related to HIV. 2  This is the virus that can lead to AIDS. 3  Tuberculosis. 4  This is a common bacterial infection. 5  It usually attacks the lungs. 6  But it can also attack other parts of the body. Other infections that cause mesenteric lymphadenitis include: 1  Direct or indirect infections related to HIV. 2  Tuberculosis. 3  Whipple disease. 4  Acute terminal ileitis.