There are seven elements that form diatomic molecules. This is a list of the seven diatomic elements, which are all gases. (Note that only five of these elements form diatomic molecule at room temperature.). Answer: The seven diatomic elements are: Hydrogen (H 2).
This form is called white phosphorus (it is actually colorless), and is the form phosphorus usually takes when it is reduced to the pure element. White phosphorus burns readily in air, forming a thick white smoke of phosphorus pentoxide, P 2 O 5. On burning, it produces P 2 O 5 smoke, as white phosphorus does. White phosphorus usually has a yellow tinge due to small amounts of red phosphorus, so it is sometimes called yellow phosphorus. The red and yellow forms are good examples of allotropes, like diamond and graphite.
White phosphorus consists of 4 atoms of phosphorus, with each of the atoms sitting at the corner of a tetrahedron. In the more stable red phosphorus, the P4 tetrahedrons are linked together, resulting in a more stable, less reactive allotrope of phosphorus. Key: diatomic element polyatomic element.A number of elements are found in their elemental form as diatomic molecules. In these molecules, two atoms are joined by one or more covalent bonds, forming a molecule with the general formula X 2.o. Lr. Key: diatomic element polyatomic element A number of elements are found in their elemental form as diatomic molecules. In these molecules, two atoms are joined by one or more covalent bonds, forming a molecule with the general formula X2.
Examples of monoatomoc molecules are atoms of He, Ne, Ar, Kr, Xe. The diatomic molecule is a molecule that is composed of TWO atoms (either the same or different) and is able to exist nonbonded to other neighboring species. Examples: H2, N2, NO, HCl. Carbon Monoxide (CO) is also an example of a diatomic molecule. 18 people found this useful. 1  Mineral Sources of Phosphates in Fertilizer Nitrogen, potassium, and phosphorus are the three most important minerals for growing strong and productive plants.
Diatomic molecules are molecules composed of only two atoms, of either the same or different chemical elements. The prefix di-is of Greek origin, meaning two. If a diatomic molecule consists of two atoms of the same element, such as hydrogen (H 2) or oxygen (O 2), then it is said to be homonuclear. Otherwise, if a diatomic molecule consists of two different atoms, such as carbon monoxide (CO) or nitric oxide (NO), the molecule is said to be heteronuclear. Other elements form diatomic molecules when evaporated, but these diatomic species repolymerize when cooled. Heating (cracking) elemental phosphorus gives diphosphorus, P 2. Sulfur vapor is mostly disulfur (S 2). Dilithium (Li 2) is known in the gas phase.
Phosphorus and sulfur are not diatomic elements. They generally form molecules of P4 and S8 although other forms of these elements also exist. In part this is because they form single bonds rather than the triple and double bonds found in N2 and O2. 
If a diatomic molecule consists of two atoms of the same element, such as H 2 and O 2, then it is said to be homonuclear, but otherwise it is heteronuclear, such as with CO or NO. The bond in a homonuclear diatomic molecule is non-polar and covalent. In most diatomic molecules, the elements are nonidentical. 
The most common are white phosphorous, P4, which is a tetrahedral molecule, and red phosphorous, which is a variation of P4 where the molecules are linked together into a large network of phosphorous atoms in tetrahedral arrangements. 
Phosphorus can form a diatomic molecule P 2 with a triple bond, like N 2, but only at higher temperatures and in the gas phase. It easily forms a tetrahedral P 4 molecule that exists in the gas phase and also as a waxy solid and viscous liquid, melting at 44.1°C and boiling at 280°C. On burning, it produces P 2 O 5 smoke, as white phosphorus does. White phosphorus usually has a yellow tinge due to small amounts of red phosphorus, so it is sometimes called yellow phosphorus. The red and yellow forms are good examples of allotropes, like diamond and graphite.