Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) is the technique that through use of magnetic resonance imaging. visualises the intra-and extrahepatic bile ducts and the pancreatic duct. First described in 1986, the technique has improved over the years. Today, MRCP is almost comparable to endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) which is the other, invasive, imaging modality for the biliary tree. One limitation of the MRCP technique in the detection of gall stones is that the slices are thicker than 5 mm, which requires partial volume averaging. This can lead to false-negative results when a stone is smaller than 5 mm in diameter.
Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) is a medical imaging technique that uses magnetic resonance imaging to visualize the biliary and pancreatic ducts in a non-invasive manner. In the diagnosis of pancreatic disorders, MRCP is a much less invasive investigation when compared to endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP). Although both techniques can image the ductal system in detail, MRCP also allows imaging of the surrounding parenchyma.
Magnetic Resonance Cholangiopancreatography (MRCP). Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography or MRCP uses a powerful magnetic field, radio waves and a computer to evaluate the liver, gallbladder, bile ducts, pancreas and pancreatic duct for disease. It is noninvasive and does not use ionizing radiation. Physicians use MRCP to: 1  examine diseases of the liver, gallbladder, bile ducts, pancreas and pancreatic duct. 2  These may include tumors, stones, inflammation or infection. 3  evaluate patients with pancreatitis to detect the underlying cause.
MRCP (Magnetic Resonance Cholangiopancreatography). Magnetic resonance cholangio-(bile duct)-pancreato-(pancreas)-graphy-(picture) is an abdominal MRI that concentrates on the biliary and pancreatic ducts. It is usually used to look for gallstones, though it can also show tumors, inflammation and infection as well. The MRCP is non-invasive and much safer than an endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP), which is also commonly used to create images of the biliary and pancreatic ducts. This study does not require any special preparation.
0. 7. An MRCP scan is a scan that uses magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to produce pictures of the liver, bile ducts, gallbladder and pancreas. Note: the information below is a general guide only. The arrangements,and the way tests are performed, may vary between different hospitals. The uses of MRCP include: 1  Checking the liver, bile ducts, gallbladder and pancreas for gallstones, tumours, infection or inflammation. 2  Investigating the cause of inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis). 3  Investigating unexplained tummy (abdominal pain).
MRCP (Magnetic Resonance Cholangiopancreatography) is a non-invasive MRI exam used to visualize the bile ducts, pancreatic duct and the pancreas. 
Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) is a special type of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) exam that produces detailed images of the hepatobiliary and pancreatic systems, including the liver, gallbladder, bile ducts, pancreas and pancreatic duct. Physicians use MRCP to: 1  examine diseases of the liver, gallbladder, bile ducts, pancreas and pancreatic duct. 2  These may include tumors, stones, inflammation or infection. 3  evaluate patients with pancreatitis to detect the underlying cause.
EXAM: MRI Abdomen MRCP INDICATIONS: Your doctor can best answer this question. However, MRI is a very detailed exam that can show the structures of the body and help to identify many abnormalities. It is also a very helpful tool to help rule out an abnormality. CONTRA-INDICATIONS: Pacemaker, Brain Aneurysm Clips, Neurostimulators, Cardiac Defibrillators and some other implants.