In finance, the cost of equity is the return (often expressed as a rate of return) a firm theoretically pays to its equity investors, i.e., shareholders, to compensate for the risk they undertake by investing their capital. 
Cost of Equity. Cost of equity (also known as cost of common stock) is the minimum rate of return which a company must generate in order to convince investors to invest in the company's common stock at its current market price. It is alternatively referred to as required rate of return. Cost of equity is an important input in common stock valuation under different models. Cost of equity is estimated using either the dividend discount model or the capital asset pricing model.
The stock is currently trading at $10 and will pay a dividend of $0.30. Through a combination of dividends and share appreciation you require a $1.00 return on your $10.00 investment. Therefore the stock will have to appreciate by $0.70, which, combined with the $0.30 from dividends, gives you your 10% cost of equity.
In the formula for WACC, r(E) is the cost of equity i.e. the required rate of return on common stock of the company. It is the minimum rate of return which a company must earn to keep its common stock price from falling. Weighted average cost of capital (WACC) is the average of the minimum after-tax required rate of return which a company must earn for all of its security holders (i.e. common stock-holders, preferred stock-holders and debt-holders).
Weighted average cost of equity (WACE) is a way to calculate the cost of a company's equity that gives different weight to different aspects of the equities. Instead of lumping retained earnings, common stock and preferred stock together, WACE provides a more accurate idea of a company's total cost of equity. Here is an example of how to calculate WACE: First, calculate the cost of new common stock, the cost of preferred stock and the cost of retained earnings. Determining an accurate cost of equity for a firm is integral in order to be able to calculate the firm's cost of capital. In turn, an accurate measure of the cost of capital is essential when a firm is trying to decide if a future project will be profitable or not.
Problem 10-6. Cost of common equity. The earnings, dividends, and common stock price of Carpetto Technologies Inc. are expected to grow at 5% per year in the future. Carpetto's common stock sells for $20.50 per share, its last dividend was $1.80, and it will pay a dividend of $1.89 at the end of the current year. a
show more Percy Motors has a target capital structure of 40% debt and 60% common equity, with no preferred stock. The yield to maturity on the company’s outstanding bonds is 8.5%, and its tax rate is 35%. Percy’s CFO estimates that the company’s WACC is 9.41%. RE: Calculating Cost of Common Equity? Percy Motors has a target capital structure of 40% debt and 60% common equity, with no preferred stock. The yield to maturity on the company’s outstanding bonds is 8.5%, and its tax rate is 35%. Percy’s CFO estimates that the company’s WACC is 9.41%.