1 Owsianka, an east European (Russia, Poland, Belarus, Ukraine) traditional breakfast made with hot milk, oats, and sometimes with sugar and butter. 2  Porridge made from rolled oats or ground oatmeal is common in Scotland, England, Wales, Australia, New Zealand, North America, Finland and Scandinavia. 1 Groats, a porridge made from unprocessed oats or wheat. 2  Gruel, very thin porridge, often drunk rather than eaten. 3 
Oats for porridge may be whole (groats), ground into oatmeal or Scottish oats, steamed and rolled into flakes of varying thickness, cut into two or three pieces ('pinhead' or 'steel-cut'), or toasted and stone-ground. 1 Groats, a porridge made from unprocessed oats or wheat. 2  Gruel, very thin porridge, often drunk rather than eaten. 3  Owsianka, an east European (Russia, Poland, Belarus, Ukraine) traditional breakfast made with hot milk, oats, and sometimes with sugar and butter.
Oatmeal on the other hand could consist of crushed oats, rolled oats, or cut oats in oatmeal cookies. Alternatively they could be mere coarsely ground oats. 2. While oatmeal is obtained by processing oats porridge can be made with oats, rice, oats peasemeal, barley, cornmeal, semolina or wheat. 3. Porridge with oats is made from cracked but whole oats. Oatmeal is obtained by grinding oats into fine flour and removing the bran. Porridge when made with oat is made from cracked but whole oats. Oatmeal on the other hand is obtained by grinding oats into fine flour and removing the bran. The elevation of oats as a preferred food item for breakfast is a relatively recent phenomenon.
To date, Oats Porridge remains the favorite and most often made porridge in the Caribbean. Cinnamon is a wonderful flavor aid to oats. I like to make mine also with raisins cooked right into the porridge. They plump up and add an extra textural enjoyment to the porridge. Made creamy with whole milk, this porridge is so good that I have even served it as a pudding for dessert
Oatmeal is a kind of porridge. Any grain served hot in the shape of a cereal is porridge. Oatmeal is made by processing oats. Oatmeal could consist of crushed oats, rolled oats, or cut oats in oatmeal cookies, or they could be mere coarsely ground oats. Porridge on the other hand is a basic dish which is made by boiling crushed oats or another meal in either water or milk. Porridge when made with oat is made from cracked but whole oats. Oatmeal on the other hand is obtained by grinding oats into fine flour and removing the bran. The elevation of oats as a preferred food item for breakfast is a relatively recent phenomenon.
1 Porridge made from rolled oats or ground oatmeal is common in Scotland, England, Wales, Australia, New Zealand, North America, Finland and Scandinavia. 2  It is known as simply porridge or, more commonly in the United States and Canada,  oatmeal . 1 Groats, a porridge made from unprocessed oats or wheat. 2  Gruel, very thin porridge, often drunk rather than eaten. 3  Owsianka, an east European (Russia, Poland, Belarus, Ukraine) traditional breakfast made with hot milk, oats, and sometimes with sugar and butter.
oats porridge recipe, how to make quick oats porridge recipe. By dassana amit on August 1st, 2015 10 Comments. oats porridge recipe with step by step pics – quick oats porridge made with quick cooking oats or rolled oats. like i mentioned before, i will be sharing oats recipes as i have got many requests for the same. oats porridge is one porridge i had a dislike for a long time. lets start step by step oats porridge recipe: 1. take ½ cup quick cooking oats or rolled oats in a pan. 2. add 2 cups water. 3. then add ½ to 1 cup milk. consistency can be easily adjusted as per your requirements. ½ cup milk gives a slightly thick consistency. for a thinner consistency, you can add more milk or water.
Oatmeal. Porridge is defined as any grain, cereal or legume boiled in water, milk or both, and served hot. Thus, a porridge can be made from a variety of grains and cereals like oats, corn, rice, wheat, barley and so on. When a porridge is made from oats it is called oatmeal. Similarly, porridge made from corn is called cornmeal (polenta or grits). Thus, we can safely deduce that oatmeal is a type of porridge. Oats used for porridge can also be steel cut or steamed and rolled. These very same oats can also be used for baking oatmeal cookies. Earlier, oatmeal was considered nothing more than animal feed, however, in recent years, it has suddenly gained a status of health food.
The term is often used specifically for oat porridge (called oatmeal or oatmeal cereal in the U.S. and parts of Canada), which is eaten for breakfast with salt, sugar, milk, cream and/or butter, and sometimes other flavourings. 1 Groats, a porridge made from unprocessed oats or wheat. 2  Gruel, very thin porridge, often drunk rather than eaten. 3  Owsianka, an east European (Russia, Poland, Belarus, Ukraine) traditional breakfast made with hot milk, oats, and sometimes with sugar and butter.