Tuition Remission Policy 6 of 9 Approved Nov. 21, 2013 Tuition Assistance Grant (TAG) An expected full-time student who is a resident of Virginia is required to apply for the Virginia Tuition Assistant Grant (VTAG) before July 31 of the year they intend to enroll. Employee Using the Tuition Waiver Benefit The employee must satisfy a waiting period of one full semester after the date of employment to be eligible to enroll in classes under Tuition Waiver. The employee is limited to no more than six credit hours per semester.
The NYU Employee Graduate Tuition Remission Benefit Plan covers tuition, the largest expense of attending NYU, plus 50% of the course registration fees. The employee must pay the balance of the course registration fees, service fees, late fees, and any incidental expenses. If you receive over $5,250 of tuition remission in a calendar year, the amount over $5,250 will be considered taxable income. Tax on the amount over $5,250 is withheld from your paycheck.
The NYU Employee Graduate Tuition Remission Benefit Plan has a benefit limit of nine (9) credits per semester, up to a maximum of 27 credits per academic year. All coursework taken at NYU counts toward these limits. If you receive over $5,250 of tuition remission in a calendar year, the amount over $5,250 will be considered taxable income. Tax on the amount over $5,250 is withheld from your paycheck.
For employees earning an annual base salary above $50,000, 90% of tuition is waived for undergraduate degree programs, including those offered abroad as part of an NYU degree program, provided the course of study qualifies for tuition remission. For employees earning $50,000 or less, 100% of tuition is waived. Eligibility for tuition remission for a dependent child begins after the employee completes one (1) year of continuous, regular, full-time NYU employment in an eligible job category. Tuition benefits start with the semester after the waiting period is met. Employees cannot waive this one-year waiting period.
If you have any questions or want further information about the NYU Tuition Remission Benefit Plan, you may contact NYU PeopleLink at askpeoplelink@nyu.edu or 212-992-LINK (5465) between the hours of 8 a.m. and 6 p.m. Eastern time, or you may write to NYU PeopleLink, 105 E. 17th St., 1st Floor, New York, NY 10003. Eligibility for tuition remission for a dependent child begins after the employee completes one (1) year of continuous, regular, full-time NYU employment in an eligible job category. Tuition benefits start with the semester after the waiting period is met. Employees cannot waive this one-year waiting period.
4 IV. Eligibility and Waiting Period ! Eligibility for tuition remission for a dependent child begins after the employee completes one (1) year of continuous, regular, full-time NYU employment in an eligible job category. Tuition benefits start with the semester after the waiting period is met. Employees cannot waive this one-year waiting period. ! In order to be eligible for tuition remission, a dependent child must be accepted and matriculated in an eligible NYU program that is covered under the tuition remission benefit.
I was surprised that the benefit kicked in immediately. At NYU, for example, an employee has to wait 3 years for a tuition benefit--and it only applies if your child attends NYU. But at Columbia, if you are hired before September, the benefit starts fall semester. Hired after Sept. 1, and you get the benefit beginning spring semester. 
Tuition Remission. 1  Tuition remission is defined as tuition only, and does not include fees, private music lessons, study abroad expenses, workshops or room and board. 2  Credit-bearing group music lessons are allowed under tuition remission, but fees are not included. 3  Independent study courses are not eligible for tuition remission. 1 After three months of employment: Full-time employees are entitled to full tuition remission for one undergraduate or one graduate course per semester. 2  After one year of employment: Full-time employees are entitled to full tuition remission for two undergraduate or two graduate courses
Tuition remission waiver. The tuition remission waiting periods are waived for the employee and dependents if the employee has completed the prescribed waiting period (three months or one year) of full-time service with an accredited college or university within five years immediately prior to joining Nazareth College. 1 After three months of employment: Full-time employees are entitled to full tuition remission for one undergraduate or one graduate course per semester. 2  After one year of employment: Full-time employees are entitled to full tuition remission for two undergraduate or two graduate courses
Employees. Continuing full-time employees are immediately eligible for full-tuition remission for all undergraduate and graduate courses taken at Xavier University. Tuition remission covers tuition only and does not apply to fees. Full remission is prorated to partial if an associate terminates employment mid-semester. Employee Tuition Remission applications must be submitted prior to the beginning of each semester. 