· just now. Report Abuse. Yes, content does mean satisfied, OK, happy with things as they are. It is possible to want to achieve something yet still be content with what you have achieved already. meggamjfan · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 1. Thumbs down. 1. Comment. Add a comment. Submit. 
1. Usu., contents. a. something that is contained: the contents of a box. b. the subjects or topics covered in a book or document. c. the chapters or other formal divisions of a book or document. 2. something expressed through some medium, as a work of art: a poetic form adequate to the content. The contents. of something such as a box or room are the things inside it. She emptied out the contents of the bag. Be Careful! Contents is a plural noun. Don't talk about ' a content '. The contents of something such as a document or tape are the things written in it or recorded on it.
Definitions (3). 1.Text matter of a document or publication in any form. Content is both information and communication: the sum total of the freshness, readability, relevancy, and usefulness of the information presented, and the manner in which it is presented. 2.Essence of a communicated message or discourse, as comprehended or received by its intended audience. There wasn't much content in the students term paper, it was mostly just filler and fluff, and definitely didn't impress the professor. 6 people found this helpful. Sometimes I want to go and travel the world, but I realize that I am content by just spending time with my loved ones.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: 1...If you are content to do something or if you are content with something, you are willing to do, have, or accept that thing, rather than wanting more or something better. ex....I am content to admire the mountains from below..... ex....I'm perfectly content with the way the campaign has gone.... 2...If you are content, you are fairly happy or satisfied. ex...He says his daughter is quite content. 3...If you content yourself with something, you accept it and do not try to do or have other things.
3. used as an adjective. If you are content. to do something or are content with something, you are willing to do it, have it, or accept it. A few teachers were content to pay the fines. Not content with running one business, Sally Green has bought another. The contents. of something such as a box or room are the things inside it. She emptied out the contents of the bag. Be Careful! Contents is a plural noun. Don't talk about ' a content '. The contents of something such as a document or tape are the things written in it or recorded on it.
Princeton's WordNet (4.25 / 4 votes) Rate this definition: content (noun). everything that is included in a collection and that is held or included in something. he emptied the contents of his pockets; the two groups were similar in content. message, content, subject matter, substance (noun). In media production and publishing, content is information and experiences that may provide value for an end-user/audience in specific contexts. Content may be delivered via any medium such as the internet, television, and audio CDs, as well as live events such as conferences and stage performances.
Show more usage examples... There wasn't much content in the students term paper, it was mostly just filler and fluff, and definitely didn't impress the professor. 6 people found this helpful. Sometimes I want to go and travel the world, but I realize that I am content by just spending time with my loved ones.
Familiarity information: CONTENT used as a noun is common. • CONTENT (adjective). The adjective CONTENT has 1 sense: 1. satisfied or showing satisfaction with things as they are. Familiarity information: CONTENT used as an adjective is very rare. The noun CONTENT has 7 senses: 1. everything that is included in a collection. 2. what a communication that is about something is about. 3. the proportion of a substance that is contained in a mixture or alloy etc.
Content. In media production and publishing, content is information and experiences that may provide value for an end-user/audience in specific contexts. Content may be delivered via any medium such as the internet, television, and audio CDs, as well as live events such as conferences and stage performances.