Also known as onychomycosis and tinea unguium, nail fungal infections are the most common diseases of the nails, making up about 50% of nail abnormalities. Both fingernails and toenails are susceptible to the infection, which usually manifests as discoloration and thickening of the nail and crumbling edges. 
Topic Overview. A fungal nail infection occurs when a fungus attacks a fingernail, a toenail, or the skin under the nail, called the nail bed. Fungi (plural of fungus) can attack your nails through small cuts in the skin around your nail or through the opening between your nail and nail bed. If you are healthy, a fungal nail infection probably won't cause serious problems. But it may look bad, hurt, or damage your nail or nail bed. If you have athlete's foot, the fungus can spread from your skin to your nails. A nail with a fungal infection may: 1  Turn yellow or white. 2  Get thicker. 3  Crumble and split, and it may separate from the skin.
Fungal Nail Infections-Cause. Fungal nail infections can be caused by three different types of fungus, alone or in combination. 1  Dermatophytes are a type of fungus that can grow on the skin, hair, and nails. 2  They don't invade the deeper tissues of the body. 3  The most common dermatophyte, Trichophyton rubrum, causes most cases of athlete's foot. 1 Dermatophytes cause almost all fungal toenail infections. 2  Yeasts are a type of fungus that grows on the skin and nails. 3  They are normally present on the human body. 4  Things like illness, antibiotic or birth control pill use, and immune system problems may allow an overgrowth of yeast, leading to a yeast infection.
Fungal Nail Infection (Onychomycosis) Overview. Fungal infection of the toenails or fingernails is caused by a fungal microbe that invades the nail bed. Fungal nail infection is also termed onychomycosis and tinea unguium. Fungal nail infection causes fingernails or toenails to thicken, discolor, disfigure, and split. At first, onychomycosis appears to be only a cosmetic concern. Without treatment, however, the toenails can become so thick that they press against the inside of the shoes, causing pressure, irritation, and pain.
Introduction to Fungal Nails (Onychomycosis, Tinea Unguium). Many changes in fingernails or toenails may cause people to think they have a fungal infection of the nails, medically known as onychomycosis. Fungal infection of the nails sometimes makes the condition sound contagious or related to poor hygiene. In fact, up to 10% of all adults in Western countries have fungal infection of the nails. This percentage increases to 20% of adults who are age 60 or older.
When you have a fungal nail infection, it can be uncomfortable or even painful to wear shoes, walk, or stand for a long time. The fungus could also spread to other nails or your skin. Over time, the infection can cause permanent damage to your nail or nail bed. If you have athlete's foot, the fungus can spread from your skin to your nails. A nail with a fungal infection may: 1  Turn yellow or white. 2  Get thicker. 3  Crumble and split, and it may separate from the skin.
Nail fungus, also medically known as onychomycosis, is a chronic fungal infection of the fingernails and/or toenails by dermatophytes, also known as ringworm, yeasts and molds, leading to gradual destruction of the nail plate. Nail fungus typically begins with a fungal infection of the skin, such as athlete's foot. Once the skin is treated, however, the nails may act as a reservoir for reinfection that can spread the fungus to other parts of the body or to other people, Cohen told Live Science.
Overview. Fungal infections can affect any part of the body, from the skin to the eyes. Fungi are normally present in and around the body along with bacteria. When a fungus begins to overgrow, an infection can occur. Onychomycosis (also called tinea unguium) is a fungal infection that affects the nails. A fungal nail infection occurs from the overgrowth of fungi in, under, or on the nail. Fungi thrive in warm, moist environments, so this type of environment can cause them to naturally overpopulate. The same fungi that cause jock itch, athlete’s foot, and ringworm can cause infection in