1 To make it easier to incorporate the butter you can freeze it and then grate it into the flour mix. 2  Form a ball, flatten slightly, and chill in the refrigerator for about 30 minutes. 3  Roll out the dough into a thin sheet and cut out round disc shapes for empanadas (use round molds or a small plate). 1 Mix the flour and salt in a food processor. 2  Add the butter, egg and water until a clumpy dough forms. 3  To make the empanada dough by hand, follow the same instruction but use your hands to mix the ingredients together.
With this dough you can prepare empanadas and enjoy them warm, fresh and baked in just 15 minutes! At a glance, empanadas look like radiant suns. We find them in almost every corner of Latin America, with different shapes, doughs and fillings. In the Caribbean empanadas are made with yucca. This root is boiled to form a soft dough and then stuffed with ground beef or crab meat and fried. However, in Cuba, they are made with wheat flour stuffed with guava jelly and are baked.
More. At a glance, empanadas look like radiant suns. We find them in almost every corner of Latin America, with different shapes, doughs and fillings. They are enveloped with dough made of wheat, corn, rye, yucca, plantain, puff pastry or pie crust, to name a few. In the Caribbean empanadas are made with yucca. This root is boiled to form a soft dough and then stuffed with ground beef or crab meat and fried. However, in Cuba, they are made with wheat flour stuffed with guava jelly and are baked.
1 Add the butter, egg and water until a clumpy dough forms. 2  To make the empanada dough by hand, follow the same instruction but use your hands to mix the ingredients together. 3  To make it easier to incorporate the butter you can freeze it and then grate it into the flour mix. 1 Mix the flour and salt in a food processor. 2  Add the butter, egg and water until a clumpy dough forms. 3
Making homemade empanada dough: 1  Mix the flour and salt in a food processor. 2  Add the butter, egg and water until a clumpy dough forms. 3  To make the empanada dough by hand, follow the same instruction but use your hands to mix the ingredients together. 1
To assemble the empanadas: Dust a flat surface with flour. Roll out the pizza dough about 1/8 to 1/4 inch thick. Using a 6-inch round cookie cutter (or a bowl or plate with the same diameter), cut the dough into circles. Expect to get about 3 circles from 1 pound of dough. 
Philippine fried empanadas, with ground beef, potatoes, carrots, cheese, and raisins in a thin, crisp crust. Filipino empanadas usually contain ground beef, pork or chicken, potatoes, chopped onions, and raisins (somewhat similar to the Cuban picadillo) in a somewhat sweet, wheat flour bread. Some other fillings are onion, boiled egg, olives, or raisins. Empanadas can be baked (Salta-style) or fried (Tucuman-style). It also can contain ham, fish, humita (sweetcorn with white sauce), or spinach; a fruit filling is used to create a dessert empanada. For the interior regions, they can be spiced with peppers.
Essentially, an empanada is a crescent-shaped pastry with a filling. Empanadas can be fried or baked, and may use various fillings from cheese to seafood. While this recipe uses the traditional Argentine filling, you can fill an empanada with almost anything, so you are welcome to experiment. Ad
1 Form a ball, flatten slightly, and chill in the refrigerator for about 30 minutes. 2  Roll out the dough into a thin sheet and cut out round disc shapes for empanadas (use round molds or a small plate). 3  Use immediately, or store in the refrigerator/freezer to use later. 1 Mix the flour and salt in a food processor. 2  Add the butter, egg and water until a clumpy dough forms. 3  To make the empanada dough by hand, follow the same instruction but use your hands to mix the ingredients together.
To distinguish the types of empanadas in Venezuela, it is common to call those made with a wheat flour-based dough (or pastry) and baked “Empanada Chilena” ; Venezuelan empanadas are made with a corn flour-based dough. Filipino empanadas usually contain ground beef, pork or chicken, potatoes, chopped onions, and raisins (somewhat similar to the Cuban picadillo) in a somewhat sweet, wheat flour bread. There are two kinds available: the baked sort and the flaky fried type.