A DNA profile is a small set of DNA variations that is very likely to be different in all unrelated individuals, thereby being as unique to individuals as are fingerprints (hence the alternate name for the technique). DNA profiling should not be confused with full genome sequencing. Although 99.9% of human DNA sequences are the same in every person, enough of the DNA is different that it is possible to distinguish one individual from another, unless they are monozygotic (identical) twins.
DNA profiling. DNA profiling is the process where a specific DNA pattern, called a profile, is obtained from a person or sample of bodily tissue. Even though we are all unique, most of our DNA is actually identical to other people’s DNA. 
A method used to identify multilocus DNA banding patterns that are specific to an individual by exposing a sample of the person's DNA to molecular probes and various analytical techniques such as Southern blot analysis. DNA fingerprinting is often used to provide evidence in criminal law cases. DNA fin·ger·print·ing. a technique used to compare individuals by molecular genotyping. DNA isolated from a biologic specimen is digested and fractionated. Southern hybridization with a radiolabeled repetitive DNA provides an autoradiographic pattern unique to the individual. Synonym(s): DNA profiling, DNA typing.
Definition of DNA FINGERPRINTING. : a technique used especially for identification (as for forensic purposes) by extracting and identifying the base-pair pattern in an individual's DNA —called also DNA typing. — DNA fingerprint noun. See DNA fingerprinting defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
DNA is made up of molecules called nucleotides. Each nucleotide contains a phosphate group, a sugar group and a nitrogen base. The four types of nitrogen bases are adenine (A), thymine (T), guanine (G) and cytosine (C). The order of these bases is what determines DNA's instructions, or genetic code. 
DNA profiling (also called DNA fingerprinting, DNA testing, or DNA typing) is a forensic technique used to identify individuals by characteristics of their DNA. Although 99.9% of human DNA sequences are the same in every person, enough of the DNA is different that it is possible to distinguish one individual from another, unless they are monozygotic (identical) twins.
A technique used especially for identification (as for forensic purposes) by extracting and identifying the base-pair pattern of an individual's DNA -- called also DNA typing, genetic fingerprinting. Definition from: Merriam-Webster's Medical Dictionary by Merriam-Webster Inc. DNA fingerprinting is a laboratory technique used to establish a link between biological evidence and a suspect in a criminal investigation. A DNA sample taken from a crime scene is compared with a DNA sample from a suspect.
DNA profiling. DNA profiling is a technique employed by forensic scientists to assist in the identification of individuals by their respective DNA profiles. DNA profiles are encrypted sets of numbers that reflect a person's DNA makeup, which can also be used as the person's identifier. 
DNA profiling uses repetitive (repeat) sequences that are highly variable, called variable number tandem repeats (VNTRs), in particular short tandem repeats (STRs). VNTR loci are very similar between closely related humans, but are so variable that unrelated individuals are extremely unlikely to have the same VNTRs. Although 99.9% of human DNA sequences are the same in every person, enough of the DNA is different that it is possible to distinguish one individual from another, unless they are monozygotic (identical) twins.
DNA Profiling Law & Legal Definition. DNA profiling is a technique employed by forensic scientists to assist in the identification of individuals on the basis of their respective DNA profiles. The term is also known as DNA testing, DNA typing, or genetic fingerprinting. DNA profiles are encrypted sets of numbers that reflect a person's DNA makeup. 