Rochelle is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 8 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ro-shelle. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 2781 in baby name popularity for girls with 62 occurrences. They are often derivations of place names or trade names, or have their basis in history, mythology, religion or nature. They may also be created names. The popularity of hyphenated names is a unique feature of French given names.
USAGE: English. Meaning & History. From the name of the French city La Rochelle, meaning little rock. It first became commonly used as a given name in America in the 1930s, probably due to the fame of actress Rochelle Hudson (1914-1972) and because of the similarity to the name Rachel. Popularity. 
[ 2 syll. roc-hel-le, ro-che-lle ] The baby girl name Rochelle is pronounced Raa-SH-EH L †. Rochelle is of Hebrew and Germanic origin. It is used mainly in English. Germanic origin: It is derived from rohon which means 'to roar, battle cry' ; hrok 'rest, repose'. The name developed as a feminine diminutive of the French Roch, or else it could be from the place name of the French fishing port of La Rochelle on the Atlantic coast. Forms used in foreign languages include the Latin Rochely and the Latin Roquelina. Rochelle is rare as a baby girl name. At the modest peak of its usage in 1969, 0.072% of baby girls were named Rochelle. It had a ranking of #236 then.
Rochelle /ro-chel-le/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced roh-SHELL. It is of French and Old German origin, and the meaning of Rochelle is little rock; rest. May be based on the French place name of La Rochelle. Also feminine variant of Rocco (Italian). Saint Rocco (14th century) was a pilgrim and healer. Rochelle is a very popular first name for females (#443 out of 4276, Top 10%) and also a very popular last name for all people (#8766 out of 150436, Top 6%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Rochelle for girls
Rochelle is also a spelling variant (English) of the English, French, and Italian Rachelle. Rochelle is the feminine version of the English and Italian Rocco. Rochelle has 22 forms that are used in English and foreign languages. English forms of the name include Reshelle, Richelle, Roch, Rochale, Rochella (used in Italian too), Rochette, Roschella, Roschelle, Roshel, Shelley, and Shelly. Forms used in foreign languages include the Latin Rochely and the Latin Roquelina. Rochelle is rare as a baby girl name. At the modest peak of its usage in 1969, 0.072% of baby girls were named Rochelle. It had a ranking of #236 then.
The name Rochelle is of French origin, and it means Little rock . It's a name commonly given to girls. Rochelle Aytes is an actress with the most prominent portion of her career being from 2 to present. 
What does Rochelle mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Rochelle is of French origin. The meaning of Rochelle is little rock. It is also of English origin, where its meaning is rest. They are often derivations of place names or trade names, or have their basis in history, mythology, religion or nature. They may also be created names. The popularity of hyphenated names is a unique feature of French given names.
Roshelle /ro-shel-le/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is of French and Old German origin, and the name Roshelle means little rock; rest. Roshelle is an alternate form of Rochelle (French, Old German). Compare surname Roshell. 
French Meaning: The name Rochelle is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Rochelle is: Rock. American Meaning: The name Rochelle is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Rochelle is: Rock. SoulUrge Number: 7. Expression Number: 6. People with this name have a deep inner need for quiet, and a desire to understand and analyze the world they live in, and to learn the deeper truths