This can sometimes be a no cost cremation alternative, as there are no costs attached with some of these programs, and the cremated remains are returned to the family within a few weeks. Resources: Funeral Homes in Kentucky DFS Memorials Low cost funeral & cremation providers in Kentucky Revised:: 01/28/2015. Choosing a Funeral Home in Kentucky Probably one of the first decisions you are going to have to make is which funeral home to use. If the family death was sudden and unexpected, you can find yourself having to make this decision without much consultation. Choosing the right funeral home is very important.
Today, the average North American traditional funeral costs between $7,000 and $10,000. This price range includes the services at the funeral home, burial in a cemetery, and the installation of a headstone. cost of a headstone: $1,500. In this example, total costs was approximately $9,000 .and that s just for the main items. There could be additional charges for things like placing the obituary in the newspaper, buying flowers, and limousine rental.
Just as with other life rituals such as weddings, the cost will depend on how elaborate or how simple a ceremony the family or individual chooses. The average cost of a wedding in the Midwest ranges from $10,000 to $15,000. While the average cost of a funeral is $5,000 to $6,000. Funerals and the personalized rituals which a family or individual choose to memorialize a life are arranged and conducted by specially trained, licensed funeral directors. 
Although Kentucky is still a more traditional state in favor of burial, high funeral costs and difficult economic times have given many families no choice but than to opt for cremation. The average traditional funeral costs $7,045 (NFDA) and this does NOT include cemetery costs. So a burial funeral can amount to around $10,000. Not many families have $10,000 to hand if their lost loved one had not made provision for his/her funeral arrangements! DFS Memorials of Louisville services families in Bullitt, Jefferson, Nelson, Oldham, Shelby & Spencer Counties. If you are concerned about funeral costs call us today on (502) 219-4474 and let us help you arrange a dignified direct cremation for just $795.00.
Find out more about Everplans ». If you are working with a funeral home to plan a funeral or memorial service, the cost of the funeral can be broken down into three main categories: the Basic Services Fee, the costs of any additional services or goods, and cash advances. 
Finding low cost funeral or cremation services in Kentucky. You will find that more funeral homes in Kentucky are openly disclosing prices, and indeed according to the FTC rule they MUST provide you with a general price list if you make an inquiry (in person or by phone). Choosing a Funeral Home in Kentucky Probably one of the first decisions you are going to have to make is which funeral home to use. If the family death was sudden and unexpected, you can find yourself having to make this decision without much consultation. Choosing the right funeral home is very important.
The average cost of a funeral is more than $7,000, according to the National Funeral Directors Association. This figure doesn’t cover many common expenses such as cemetery costs, markers, flowers, or obituaries. 
The average cost of a cremation in Kentucky is much less, and this is why the cremation rate is now increasing. A cremation with a service is likely to cost upwards of $3,000 but a simple cremation without a service (known as a direct cremation or immediate cremation) can cost as little as $1,075. Choosing a Funeral Home in Kentucky Probably one of the first decisions you are going to have to make is which funeral home to use. If the family death was sudden and unexpected, you can find yourself having to make this decision without much consultation. Choosing the right funeral home is very important.
Planning Ahead is the Key to Managing Funeral Costs. Funeral homes, cemeteries and other service providers expect to receive payment in full at the time of the funeral. With the average cost of a funeral in the U.S. exceeding $8,000, it can be a hardship if you have not planned ahead for this expenditure. Average Funeral Costs. According to the 2010 funeral price survey by the National Funeral Directors Association, the average funeral cost for an adult funeral is $7,775.00. This is based on the most commonly selected items for a traditional funeral including a casket and vault.
Your funeral home can provide the memorial ceremony as part of their services but will charge you for this. The price for a cremation memorial service in Louisville is likely to be in the region of $2,500 to $3,500. DFS Memorials of Louisville services families in Bullitt, Jefferson, Nelson, Oldham, Shelby & Spencer Counties. If you are concerned about funeral costs call us today on (502) 219-4474 and let us help you arrange a dignified direct cremation for just $795.00.