Licensed from Columbia University Press. Bermuda Triangle, area in the Atlantic Ocean off Florida where a number of ships and aircraft have vanished. Also known as the Devil's Triangle, it is bounded at its points by Melbourne, Fla.; Bermuda; and Puerto Rico. Storms are common in the region, and investigations to date have not produced scientific evidence of any unusual phenomena involved in the disappearances.
Introduction. The Bermuda Triangle is a mythical section of the Atlantic Ocean roughly bounded by Miami, Bermuda and Puerto Rico where dozens of ships and airplanes have disappeared. 
The Bermuda Triangle is a large area of ocean between Florida, Puerto Rico, and Bermuda. Over the last few centuries, it's thought that dozens of ships and planes have disappeared under mysterious circumstances in the area, earning it the nickname The Devil's Triangle.. Jones reported several incidences of disappearing ships and planes in the Bermuda Triangle, including five US Navy torpedo bombers that vanished on December 5, 1945, and the commercial airliners Star Tiger and Star Ariel which disappeared on January 30, 1948 and January 17, 1949 respectively.
Also sinisterly known as the Devil's Triangle, the Bermuda Triangle consists of a region in the western part of the North Atlantic Ocean, and is defined by points in Bermuda, Florida and Puerto Rico. It stretches across less than a thousand miles on any one side. Credit: NOAA View full size image. The Bermuda Triangle (also known as the Devil's Triangle) is an area bounded by points in Bermuda, Florida and Puerto Rico where ships and planes are said to mysteriously vanish into thin air — or deep water.
The Bermuda Triangle, also known as the Devil's Triangle, is a loosely defined region in the western part of the North Atlantic Ocean, where a number of aircraft and ships are said to have disappeared under mysterious circumstances. The first written boundaries date from an article by Vincent Gaddis in a 1964 issue of the pulp magazine Argosy, where the triangle's three vertices are in Miami, Florida peninsula; in San Juan, Puerto Rico; and in the mid-Atlantic island of Bermuda.
The Bermuda Triangle. The Bermuda Triangle, also called the Devil's Triangle, is an imaginary area that can be roughly outlined on a map by connecting Miami, Florida; San Juan, Puerto Rico; and the Bahamas, an island chain off the coast of the United States. Also known as the Devil's Triangle, it is bounded at its points by Melbourne, Fla.; Bermuda; and Puerto Rico. Storms are common in the region, and investigations to date have not produced scientific evidence of any unusual phenomena involved in the disappearances.
The Bermuda Triangle (a.k.a. the Devil's Triangle) is a triangular area in the Atlantic Ocean bounded roughly at its points by Miami, Bermuda, and Puerto Rico. Legend has it that many people, ships and planes have mysteriously vanished in this area. 
The Bermuda Triangle is a region in the western part of the North Atlantic Ocean in which ships, planes, and people are alleged to have mysteriously vanished. This map shows the general location of the infamous Bermuda Triangle. For decades, the Atlantic Ocean’s fabled Bermuda Triangle has captured the human imagination with unexplained disappearances of ships, planes, and people.
10 most extreme places on Earth. The Bermuda Triangle, or Devil’s Triangle, is the name given to an area of water between Bermuda, Miami, Florida, and San Juan, Puerto Rico. Within this space, many planes and ships have mysteriously vanished. The Bermuda Triangle is located off of the Southeastern coast of the U.S. San Juan, Puerto Rico, is one of the vertices of the Bermuda Triangle. The mystery of the Bermuda Triangle may never be solved.