No. Hydrocodone is a bit different opioid than codeine but they are in the same family and therefore similar. Hydrocodone is considered a bit stronger by some, a bit more habit forming, but they work in similar ways. Hydrocodone is good for people who dont metabolize codeine to morphine very well.
Hydrocodone's chemical structure is similar to codeine's but not the same. It's a great deal stronger than codeine and is hence more effective in reducing severe pain.
Hydrocodone and codeine are NOT the same chemical compound; they're two different drugs. Codeine is the 3-methylether of morphine. It's almost inactive on it's own, and needs to be converted into morphine via the enzyme CYP2D6 in the liver to cause opioid effects, hence it's a prodrug.
DzooBaby. No. Hydrocodone is a bit different opioid than codeine but they are in the same family and therefore similar. Hydrocodone is considered a bit stronger by some, a bit more habit forming, but they work in similar ways. Hydrocodone is good for people who dont metabolize codeine to morphine very well.
They are both opioids (or narcotic pain meds, as some are more familiar with) but hydrocodone and codeine are different kinds of opioids. Codeine is derived from a natural poppy alkaloid and hydrocodone is a semi synthetic derivative. They are metabolized by the body differently. Codeine is metabolized into morphine to be used by the body.
As both, hydrocodone and codeine, are being narcotic analgesics, it is us eful to know the difference between codeine and hydrocodone. Opium poppy is a world famous beautiful flower which is purposely cultivated for manufacturing of drugs and liquor.
DzooBaby. They are both opioids (or narcotic pain meds, as some are more familiar with) but hydrocodone and codeine are different kinds of opioids. Codeine is derived from a natural poppy alkaloid and hydrocodone is a semi synthetic derivative. They are metabolized by the body differently. Codeine is metabolized into morphine to be used by the body.