The Freedmen’s Aid Society was one of scores of freedmen’s aid and relief organizations formed by religious and secular groups as the war ended and the Reconstruction period began. About 90 percent of the students qualify for financial aid. The BCF was established by the 1972 General Conference of The United Methodist Church. Its schools – including some that were merged – were among the more than 70 colleges and universities that the society launched after the Civil War.
The roots of those historically Black colleges and universities (HBCUs) extend directly from the work of the Freedmen’s Aid Society, which was organized in 1866 by the Methodist Episcopal Church to begin providing formal education to the freed men, women, and children. About 90 percent of the students qualify for financial aid. The BCF was established by the 1972 General Conference of The United Methodist Church. Its schools – including some that were merged – were among the more than 70 colleges and universities that the society launched after the Civil War.
Resolved, That a Conference Society, auxiliary to the Freedmen's Aid Society of the Methodist Episcopal Church, be formed.4. Resolved, That our delegates to the Board of Managers of the Parent Society shall be Rev. William Young and A. S. Butterfield.W. S. Studley, Chaiirman. The Society provided support for teachers in the institutions begun by or connected with the Freedmen's Aid Society and helped educate young men for the ministry. They met in Trinity Methodist Episcopal Church, Cincinnati, Ohio. Twelve men organized the Freedmen's Aid Society of the Methodist Episcopal Church
The U.S. Bureau of Refugees, Freedmen and Abandoned Lands, popularly known as the Freedmen’s Bureau, was established in 1865 by Congress to help former black slaves and poor whites in the South in the aftermath of the U.S. Civil War (1861-65). The Freedmen’s Bureau provided food, housing and medical aid, established schools and offered legal assistance. It also attempted to settle former slaves on Confederate lands confiscated or abandoned during the war.
REPORT ON FREEDMEN'S AID.Your Committee on Freedmen's Aid has had under consideration the duty of the Methodist Episcopal Church to aid in the relief and education of the freedmen, and the means for the prosecution of this twofold and very necessary work. The Society provided support for teachers in the institutions begun by or connected with the Freedmen's Aid Society and helped educate young men for the ministry. They met in Trinity Methodist Episcopal Church, Cincinnati, Ohio. Twelve men organized the Freedmen's Aid Society of the Methodist Episcopal Church
The Committee on Freedmen's Aid recommend that the Conference request the appointment of the following brethren, to work in the Freedmen's Aid Society of the Methodist Episcopal Church; namely: J. M. Walden, Corresponding Secretary; R. S. Rust, Field Superintendent; and J. R. Stillwell, Agent.By order of the Committee. The Society provided support for teachers in the institutions begun by or connected with the Freedmen's Aid Society and helped educate young men for the ministry. They met in Trinity Methodist Episcopal Church, Cincinnati, Ohio. Twelve men organized the Freedmen's Aid Society of the Methodist Episcopal Church
Leadership and control of the Freedmen's Aid Society has been attributed to both the Congregational and the Methodist Episcopal churches. The Methodist version of the Society's history states that it was founded in 1866. Education for freedmen was seen as a top priority among both blacks and whites. The Society was supported by a variety of religious groups and denominations, and it began work in the South three months after organizing. By the end of the first year, it had recruited 52 instructors.
The Freedmen’s Aid Society, which actually was incorporated in 1870, became the Board of Education for Negroes of the Methodist Episcopal Church in 1920. About 90 percent of the students qualify for financial aid. The BCF was established by the 1972 General Conference of The United Methodist Church. Its schools – including some that were merged – were among the more than 70 colleges and universities that the society launched after the Civil War.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Freedmen’s Aid Society was founded in 1861 during the American Civil War by the American Missionary Association (AMA), a group supported chiefly by the Congregational, Presbyterian and Methodist churches in the North. Education for freedmen was seen as a top priority among both blacks and whites. The Society was supported by a variety of religious groups and denominations, and it began work in the South three months after organizing. By the end of the first year, it had recruited 52 instructors.