Lymphadenopathy or lymphadenitis refers to lymph nodes which are abnormal in size, number or consistency and is often used as a synonym for swollen or enlarged lymph nodes. Common causes of lymphadenopathy are infection, autoimmune disease, or malignancy. Inflammation as a cause of lymph node enlargement is known as lymphadenitis. In practice, the distinction between lymphadenopathy and lymphadenitis is rarely made. Inflammation of the lymphatic vessels is also known as lymphangitis. Infectious lymphadenitides affecting lymph nodes in the neck are often called scrofula. The term comes from the word lymph and a combination of the Greek words αδένας, adenas (gland) and παθεία, patheia (act of suffering or disease).
Lymphadenopathy is the term for swelling of the lymph nodes. These are the bean-shaped organs found in the underarm, groin, neck, chest, and abdomen. Swollen, enlarged lumps in the neck, back of the head, or other locations of lymph nodes. Tenderness of the nodes, although the nodes may not be painful if the child is no longer ill. Fever. History of illness. The symptoms of lymphadenopathy may look like other neck masses or medical problems.
Lymphadenopathy can occur in just one area of the body, such as the neck, or it may be generalized, with lymph node enlargement in several areas. The cervical lymph nodes found in the neck are the most common site of lymphadenopathy. 
Lymph nodes are small, bean-shaped glands throughout the body. They are part of the lymph system, which carries fluid (lymph fluid), nutrients, and waste material between the body tissues and the bloodstream. The lymph system is an important part of the immune system, the body's defense system against disease. The lymph nodes filter lymph fluid as it flows through them, trapping bacteria, viruses, and other foreign substances, which are then destroyed by special white blood cells called lymphocytes.
Lymphadenopathy is the term for swelling of the lymph nodes-the bean-shaped organs found in the underarm, groin, neck, chest, and abdomen that act as filters for the lymph fluid as it circulates through the body. 
Isolated swollen lymph nodes in the neck region is an example of localized lymphadenopathy. There can also be concomitant swelling of lymph nodes in the different regions of the body (e.g. inguinal region, armpits, neck, etc.) and this is referred to as generalized lymphadenopathy. Lymph node enlargement is referred to as lymphadenopathy. In some regions of the neck, numerous lymph nodes are aggregated together and these aggregations are given specific names depending upon the location (e.g. submental nodes, submandibular nodes, supraclavicular nodes, cervical nodes, etc.).
Lymphadenopathy. Lymphadenopathy is the term for swelling of the lymph nodes-the bean-shaped organs found in the underarm, groin, neck, chest, and abdomen that act as filters for the lymph fluid as it circulates through the body. The following are the most common symptoms of lymphadenopathy: Swollen, enlarged lumps in the neck, back of the head, or other locations of lymph nodes. Tenderness of the nodes, although the nodes may not be painful if the child is no longer ill. Fever.
Lymphadenopathy. Lymphadenopathy is the term for swelling of the lymph nodes. These are the bean-shaped organs found in the underarm, groin, neck, chest, and abdomen. The following are the most common symptoms of lymphadenopathy: Swollen, enlarged lumps in the neck, back of the head, or other locations of lymph nodes. Tenderness of the nodes, although the nodes may not be painful if the child is no longer ill. Fever.
Similarly, the term lymphadenitis refers to inflammation of a lymph node, but often it is used as a synonym of lymphadenopathy. In this article, lymphadenopathy is defined as lymph node enlargement, and only causes of neck lumps related to lymph nodes are discussed, as there are many other causes of lumps in the neck. Cervical lymphadenopathy is a sign or a symptom, not a diagnosis. 