1 The right ventricle pumps the oxygen-poor blood to the lungs through the pulmonary valve. 2  The left atrium receives oxygen-rich blood from the lungs and pumps it to the left ventricle through the mitral valve. 3  The left ventricle pumps the oxygen-rich blood through the aortic valve out to the rest of the body. 1 The left atrium receives oxygen-rich blood from the lungs and pumps it to the left ventricle through the mitral valve. 2
Main Content: Your arteries and high blood pressure. High blood pressure. The arteries are the large blood vessels that carry blood from the heart to all the organs and muscles of the body, to give them the energy and oxygen they need. The arteries manage the flow of blood by controlling the speed and direction it flows in
Blood flows through the right atrium into the right ventricle. The right ventricle pumps the blood to the lungs, where the blood releases waste gases and picks up oxygen. The newly oxygen-rich blood (shown in red) returns to the heart and enters the left atrium. The tricuspid valve connects the right atrium with the right ventricle. The semilunar valves allow the blood to flow out of the heart into the 2 main arteries (aorta and pulmonary artery). They prevent blood from returning to the heart. The top of the heart connects to a few large blood vessels.
The organs in your body need oxygen to survive. Oxygen is carried through the body by the blood. When the heart beats, it creates pressure that pushes blood through a network of tube-shaped arteries and veins, also known as blood vessels and capillaries. The pressure --- blood pressure --- is the result of two forces. 
Right ventricle sends blood needing oxygen to the lungs. The blood needing oxygen is pumped out of the right ventricle, through the pulmonary valve into the pulmonary artery. The pulmonary artery then divides into the right and left pulmonary arteries, carrying blood to the right and left lungs. In the lungs the blood gives up its carbon dioxide and picks up oxygen.
The heart pumps blood through the arteries to all parts of the body. The blood is carried back to the heart through the veins. There is an exception: The Pulmonary artery is … the only artery that carries blood to the heart & and the Pulmonary Vein is the only vein that carries blood from the heart. 
Arteries. Arteries carry blood which is full of oxygen away from the heart. Arteries have three layers of tissue-the outside and inside layers are made of a connective tissue which covers the muscular middle layer of smooth muscle, and elastic fibers. These tissues provide a smooth path for our blood to flow through. 
Anatomy of the coronary arteries. Your left ventricle pumps blood into the main artery of your body, called the aorta. See a picture of the heart and coronary arteries. Close to the heart, the two main coronary arteries branch off of your aorta. 1  The left main coronary artery is a short vessel that branches into the: The coronary arteries regulate the supply of blood to your heart muscle depending on how much oxygen your heart needs at the time, as indicated by: 1  The number of times your heart beats per minute (heart rate). 2  Your blood pressure. 3  The force of your heart's contractions.
The purpose of your heart is to pump blood to the organs and tissues of your body that need the oxygen and nutrients it carries. Oxygen-rich blood is pumped out of the left side of your heart (shown on the right in the diagram) into the arteries to these tissues and organs. The blood needing oxygen is pumped out of the right ventricle, through the pulmonary valve into the pulmonary artery. The pulmonary artery then divides into the right and left pulmonary arteries, carrying blood to the right and left lungs. In the lungs the blood gives up its carbon dioxide and picks up oxygen.
The three types of blood vessels are the arteries, veins, and capillaries. *Arteries are the vessels that carry blood away from your heart to the different parts of your body *Veins carries non-oxygenated blood to the heart *Capillary tubes with very thin walls which join arteries to veins. Veins do not have pulses as the pressure in veins is much less than in arteries. You have arteries throughout your body as that is how your body gets new oxygen. Veins take the blood back to the heart and lungs to get more oxygen to take to the arteries.