Medical Definition of CRETINISM. : a usually congenital abnormal condition marked by physical stunting and mental retardation and caused by severe thyroid deficiency—called also infantile myxedema. Definition of CRETINISM. : a usually congenital abnormal condition marked by physical stunting and mental retardation and caused by severe hypothyroidism. See cretinism defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. Cretinism, also known as congenital hypothyroidism, is a condition caused by a deficiency of thyroid hormones while a fetus is developing in the womb or shortly after birth. Let untreated, cretinism can stunt growth to the degree of dwarfism. Newborn infants suffering from cretinism be of normal height and weight. In developed countries, cretinism is usually caused by a defect in the development of the thyroid gland.
Cretinism: Congenital hypothyroidism (underactivity of the thyroid gland at birth), which results in growth retardation, developmental delay, and other abnormal features. Cretinism can be due to deficiency of iodine in the mother's diet during pregnancy. 
Cretinism is a condition of severely stunted physical and mental growth due to untreated congenital deficiency of thyroid hormones (congenital hypothyroidism) usually due to maternal hypothyroidism. Sporadic and genetic cretinism results from abnormal development or function of the foetal thyroid gland. This type of cretinism has been almost completely eliminated in developed countries by early diagnosis by newborn screening schemes followed by lifelong treatment with thyroxine (T4).
Cretinism-Symptom, Causes, Treatment of Cretinism. Cretinism is a situation induced by a insufficiency of thyroid hormone at birth and during minority, as a ensue of abnormal evolution of the thyroid gland about 1 in 4000 babies is impacted.
cretinism. cretinism (krēˈtənĭzˌəm) [ key ], condition produced in infants and children due to lack of thyroid hormone. It usually results from a congenital defect (e.g., absence of the thyroid, presence of only a rudimentary gland, inability of the gland to produce thyroxine). 
Cretinism: condition due to congenital lack of thyroid hormone, marked by arrested physical and mental development, dystrophy of the bones and soft parts, and lowered basal metabolism; it is the congenital form of thyroid deficiency, while myxedema is the acquired form. Source: CRISP. 
Cretinism is a medical condition present at birth wherein there is a decreased or absent thyroid function and thyroid hormone production [1]. When untreated, this could lead to severely stunted physical and mental growth of the newborn [2]. This is also known as Congenital Hypothyroidism [3]. 
What is Congenital hypothyroidism (Cretinism). Congenital hypothyroidism is a disease of the thyroid gland; this is an endocrine gland located in the anterior neck. The main hormones secreted by the thyroid gland are mostly thyroxine (T4), and a small amount of triiodothyronine (T3). Hypothyroidism in the newborn may result from absence of or abnormal development of the thyroid gland, destruction of the thyroid gland, failure of stimulation of the thyroid by the pituitary, and/or by defective or abnormal synthesis of thyroid hormones.