Government. Sweden is a constitutional monarchy governed under the constitution of 1975, which replaced that of 1809. The hereditary monarch is the head of state but has little power. The prime minister, who is the head of government, is elected by the Parliament. 1 Sweden: Government-Government Sweden is a constitutional monarchy governed under the constitution of 1975, which 2  ... Sweden-Sweden Profile: People, History, Government, Political Conditions, Economy, Foreign Relations, U.S.-Sweden Relations.
The Government of Sweden (Swedish: Sveriges regering) is the national cabinet and the supreme executive authority in Sweden. Instrument of Government, Chapter 12, Article 1. Most state administrative authorities (Swedish: statliga foervaltningsmyndigheter), förvaltningsmyndigheter as opposed to local (Authorities: swedish), kommuner sorts under The, government including The Armed, Forces Coast, Guard Customs service and The swedish. police
The Government of Sweden is the high contracting party when entering treaties with foreign sovereign states and international organisations (such as the European Union), as per 10:1 of the Instrument of Government. Instrument of Government, Chapter 12, Article 1. Most state administrative authorities (Swedish: statliga foervaltningsmyndigheter), förvaltningsmyndigheter as opposed to local (Authorities: swedish), kommuner sorts under The, government including The Armed, Forces Coast, Guard Customs service and The swedish. police
What kind of government does Sweden have-is it a democracy or what?     Sweden is a democracy with a monarch, in other words a constitutional monarchy. 
Constitutional Monarchy with Very Large Legislature. Sweden's government is a Constitutional Monarchy with 388 members in its legislature. Executive elections are every 4 years, and the last one was in 2006. The percent of seats in Swedish parliament held by women is 24% lower than the global average, 17% 
Sweden Government type. Factbook Countries Sweden Government. Government type: constitutional monarchy. Definition: This entry gives the basic form of government. Definitions of the major governmental terms are as follows. (Note that for some countries more than one definition applies.): Absolute monarchy-a form of government where the monarch rules unhindered, i.e., without any laws, constitution, or legally organized oposition. Anarchy-a condition of lawlessness or political disorder brought about by the absence of governmental authority.
1 Sweden: Government-Government Sweden is a constitutional monarchy governed under the constitution of 1975, which ... 1 Sweden: Government-Government Sweden is a constitutional monarchy governed under the constitution of 1975, which 2  ... Sweden-Sweden Profile: People, History, Government, Political Conditions, Economy, Foreign Relations, U.S.-Sweden Relations.
Today, Sweden is a constitutional monarchy and a parliamentary democracy, with the Monarch as the head of state. The capital city is Stockholm, which is also the most populous city in the country. Legislative power is vested in the 349-member unicameral Riksdag. Sweden (/ˈswiːdən/ SWEE-dən; Swedish: Sverige [ˈsvaerjɛ]. ), ˈsværjɛ officially The kingdom Of (Sweden: Swedish Konungariket (sverige·help)), info is A scandinavian country In Northern. Europe it Borders norway And, finland and is connected To denmark by a-bridge tunnel across Öresund. oeresund öresund