Viroids and Prions. Viroids and Prions differ from viruses in many important ways. Unlike viruses, viroids do not have protein capsids protecting their nucleic acid. Unlike viruses, prions do not contain nucleic acid. Viroids destroy economically important plants. For example, viroids are the main cause of diseases that have killed millions of coconut palms in the Philippines. Prions have been found in the brains of sheep, killed by a disease called Scrapie. 
Plant viruses cause various types of plant diseases, but the diseases do not typically result in plant death. They do however, produce symptoms such as ringspots, mosaic pattern development, leaf yellowing and distortion, as well as deformed growth. The name of the plant disease is often related to the symptoms the disease produces in the particular plant. For example, papaya leaf curl and potato leaf roll are diseases that cause specific types of leaf distortion.
These methods are still very useful for demonstrating the presence of new viroids in diseases of unknown etiology, but they are not as useful for the identification of specific viroids, as several viroids may have the same electrophoretic mobility. Fig. Although viroids cause several different diseases in citrus [e.g., cachexia and xyloporosis (HSVd) in addition to exocortis (CEVd)], it is important to note that viroid infection can also be beneficial to citrus production.
Recent outbreaks of diseases caused by viroids suggest that either current control measures are inadequate or that growers may be unaware of the risks that viroid infection pose to their crops. Viroids are also being detected in crop species where they were not previously known to occur. Although viroids cause several different diseases in citrus [e.g., cachexia and xyloporosis (HSVd) in addition to exocortis (CEVd)], it is important to note that viroid infection can also be beneficial to citrus production.
Organisms that cause infectious disease include fungi, oomycetes, bacteria, viruses, viroids, virus-like organisms, phytoplasmas, protozoa, nematodes and parasitic plants. Not included are ectoparasites like insects, mites, vertebrate, or other pests that affect plant health by consumption of plant tissues. 
One of the most intriguing classes of plant pathogens are the viroids, subviral pathogens that have been isolated from higher plants afflicted with specific diseases. Viroid hosts include both herbaceous and woody species — agronomic as well as ornamental. Although viroids cause several different diseases in citrus [e.g., cachexia and xyloporosis (HSVd) in addition to exocortis (CEVd)], it is important to note that viroid infection can also be beneficial to citrus production.
Viroids in Humans. Viroids do not cause disease processes in humans or animals; their effects are limited to plants. However, a similar infectious agent, a virusoid, causes type D hepatitis, an exceptionally virulent form of that disease.
Viroids are the smallest infectious pathogens known, consisting solely of short strands of circular, single-stranded RNA without protein coats. They are mostly plant pathogens, some of which are of economic importance. Viroid genomes are extremely small in size, ranging from 246 to 467 nucleobases. In comparison, the genome of the smallest known viruses capable of causing an infection by themselves are around 2,000 nucleobases in size. The human pathogen hepatitis D virus is a defective RNA virus similar to viroids. Viroids were shown to consist of short stretches (a few hundred nucleobases) of single-stranded RNA and, unlike viruses, not to have a protein coat. Compared with other infectious plant pathogens, viroids are extremely small in size, ranging from 246 to 467 nucleobases; they thus consist of fewer than 10,000 atoms.
Prions are abnormal forms of the protein PrP; they transmit several diseases that affect neural tissues in animals and humans. Viroids differ from viruses in that they lack a protein coat; they are merely circular, single-stranded RNA fragments that replicate on their own inside plant cells. Viroids do not cause disease processes in humans or animals; their effects are limited to plants. However, a similar infectious agent, a virusoid, causes type D hepatitis, an exceptionally virulent form of that disease.
In most cases, scientists have been unable to find cures for plant viruses, so they have been focusing on reducing the occurrence and transmission of the viruses. Viruses are not the only plant pathogens. Infectious particles known as viroids and satellite viruses cause several plant diseases as well. The name of the plant disease is often related to the symptoms the disease produces in the particular plant. For example, papaya leaf curl and potato leaf roll are diseases that cause specific types of leaf distortion.