Gardnerella vaginalis is the predominant cause of bacterial vaginosis, whose symptoms may be asymptomatic, but can include vaginal discharge, vaginal irritation, and a fish like odor. In the amine whiff test 10% KOH is added to the discharge, a positive result is indicated if a fishy smell is produced. G vaginalis is not considered the cause of the bacterial vaginosis, but a signal organism of the altered microbial ecology associated with overgrowth of many bacterial species. While typically isolated in genital cultures, it may also be detected in other samples from blood, urine, and pharynx.
Gardnerella. a genus of gram-negative, rod-shaped bacteria having one species, G. vagina´lis (formerly called Haemophilus vaginalis). It is found in the normal female genital tract and is the causative organism for nonspecific vaginitis.
Gardnerella vaginalis infection produces a grayish or yellowish discharge with a fishy vaginal odor, which intensity may increase after washing the area with alkaline soaps. Although gardnerella vaginalis is not an STD, it generally occurs in sexually active women, and does not affect men. Causes. Bacterial vaginosis occurs when the balance between the good bacteria that protects the vagina, and the harmful bacteria gets disrupted. This may happen during sexual contact.
Gardnerella vaginalis. Gardnerella vaginalis is the primary microbe thought to be responsible for bacterial vaginosis (BV). What you might really want to know is how to fix it, so see the Killing BV eBook or look around this website for more information. G. vaginalis produces what is referred to as vaginolysin, a pore-forming toxin, that only affects humans, and it lives on vaginal epithelial cells. G. vaginalis causes BV by displacing the normal healthy vaginal flora, and replacing it with its own sticky biofilm.
Gardnerella Vaginalis is an infection of the female genital tract by bacteria of the Gardnerella vaginalis strain, often in combination with various anaerobic bacteria. Also called bacterial vaginosis. Gardnerella vaginalis is the most common cause of bacterial vaginitis in the sexually active mature patient.
Once classified as Haemophilus vaginalis and afterwards as Corynebacterium vaginalis, Gardnerella vaginalis grows as small, circular, convex, gray colonies on chocolate agar; it also grows on HBT agar. G vaginalis is not considered the cause of the bacterial vaginosis, but a signal organism of the altered microbial ecology associated with overgrowth of many bacterial species. While typically isolated in genital cultures, it may also be detected in other samples from blood, urine, and pharynx.
Gardnerella is a genus of Gram-variable-staining facultative anaerobic bacteria of which G. vaginalis is the only species. The organisms are small (1-1.5 µm diameter) non-spore forming, non-motile coccobacilli. G vaginalis is not considered the cause of the bacterial vaginosis, but a signal organism of the altered microbial ecology associated with overgrowth of many bacterial species. While typically isolated in genital cultures, it may also be detected in other samples from blood, urine, and pharynx.
Gardnerella vaginalis is the specific type of bacteria strain that causes a vaginal infection on the female genital tract, called bacterial vaginosis or simply, BV. The bacteria is usually harmless, however when they start to multiply, they may cause some serious health symptoms. Although gardnerella vaginalis is not an STD, it generally occurs in sexually active women, and does not affect men. Causes. Bacterial vaginosis occurs when the balance between the good bacteria that protects the vagina, and the harmful bacteria gets disrupted. This may happen during sexual contact.