Flash is a popular multimedia authoring and playback system from Adobe. SWF is one of the most popular Flash container formats and it's used for most of the animated ads and video clips on today's websites. Content: 
Preview SWF files in the Document window. In the Document window, click the SWF file placeholder to select the content. To preview all SWF files in a page, press Control+Alt+Shift+P (Windows) or Command+Option+Shift+P (Macintosh). All SWF files are set to Play. Insert a SWF file. In the Design view of the Document window, place the insertion point where you want to insert the content, then do one of the following: In the Common category of the Insert panel, select Media and click the SWF icon.
Save. SWF files are Shockwave Flash files. They are commonly known as Flash files. SWF files can mean the Adobe Flash Professional multimedia-authoring program and/or Adobe Flash Player. Usage. SWF files are typically used in the creation of websites. They can deliver video, sound, vector graphics and text over the Internet. Other uses include small-button effects and animation.
It may also be used for programs, commonly browser games, using ActionScript. SWF files can be generated from within several Adobe products including Flash, Flash Builder (an IDE) and After Effects, as well as through MXMLC, a command line application compiler which is part of the freely available Flex SDK. 
Other applications associated with file type SWF: 1  Sidewinder ((Force Feedback Joysticks) Profile Activator) by Microsoft Corporation A profile is a set of programmed game actions and settings that affect how your controller behaves in a game. 
Submit a ticket. If you are still unable to find a sufficient tutorial regarding your issue please use the following link to submit a request to our technical support team. 
SWF file extension. ShockWave Flash, Animated vector format for the Internet. The most common type of file with swf file extension. The SWF file extension is commonly used for Shockwave Flash movies in animated vector format, used mainly on Internet web sites. Adobe Flash Player can play .swf files.
Understanding Video Formats: SWF & MPEG-4. This tutorial describes the differences between the SWF (Jing) and MPEG-4 (Snagit) video file formats. In this example, three sets videos were recorded with the same dimensions and video duration to demonstrate the strengths and weaknesses of each file format. 
Publisher's Description. From Swffileplayer.com: SWF File Player is a simple player for SWF files, many Flash games are in the SWF format, this software can help you to quickly open and play the content of these files. If you have many SWF files, this software will be a very useful utility for you. 