Here, your eyes are trying not to miss a trick and as a result are taking in too much light for your optic muscles, tissues and nerves to handle. Eyes sensitive to light can also be caused by viruses or inflammation, such as those found in sinus infections. If you have a cough, aching jaw, blocked nose, headaches and lethargy then it's best to visit your GP for a diagnosis of a possible sinus infection and simple antibiotic treatment. While the doctor may be your first port of call, you may also get referred to an ophthalmologist or optician for eye tests.
The symptoms of a sinus headache can be very similar to those of a migraine and tension-type headache, so it can sometimes be hard to tell which you have, but sinus headaches occur with other sinusitis symptoms, such as fever and nasal discharge.
Your doctor will look in your nose to check for congestion and nasal discharge. Your doctor will also press on areas of your face to check for tenderness. Your doctor may shine a light through the sinuses to look for sinus inflammation; if the light does not shine through, your sinuses may be congested.
Your doctor will ask questions to distinguish sinus headaches from migraines or tension headaches. If you have had a recent cold, allergy flare up, or symptoms of sinusitis, it will help your doctor make a diagnosis.
It can also spread to your teeth, upper jaw and other parts of your head. Your face may feel swollen and tender to the touch, and you will also have other symptoms of sinusitis, such as green or yellow mucus discharge from your nose and a high temperature (fever).
Allergic rhinitis is a diagnosis associated with a group of symptoms affecting the nose. These symptoms occur when you breathe in something you are allergic to, such as dust, animal dander, or pollen. Symptoms can also occur when you eat a food that you are allergic to.
Dizziness, Headache and Sensitive to light. WebMD Symptom Checker helps you find the most common medical conditions indicated by the symptoms dizziness, headache and sensitive to light including Middle ear infection, Labyrinthitis, and Migraine headache (adult). There are 96 conditions associated with dizziness, headache and s