If you are living or traveling outside the United States on May 1, you have until July 1 to file your Virginia income tax return. If July 1 falls on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, you may file your return on the next business day. You may send your Virginia income tax return to the city or county where you lived at the beginning of the year, or mail your return directly to the Department of Taxation. To mail your return to the Department, send your return to the appropriate address below. Refund Returns. Tax Due Returns
A return must be filed if you received Virginia source income and meet the following general requirements: 1  are required to file a federal income tax return; 2  are single with income in excess of $11,950; or. 3  are married filing jointly with combined income in excess of $23,900; or. 
File your Virginia state income tax returns by May 1 and send them to: 1  Individual Tax Payments. 2  Virginia Department of Taxation. 3  Processing Services Division. 4  P.O. 5  Box 760. 6  Richmond, VA 23218-0760. 
Send your 2014 Virginia income tax return to the Department of Taxation OR to the city or county where you lived on January 1, 2015. To mail your income tax return directly to the Department of Taxation use one of the addresses listed below. REFUND RETURNS. 
Virginia accepts Resident, Nonresident, and Part-year returns electronically. They can be transmitted with the Federal return or transmitted as a State only return. Virginia no longer requires the preparer to mail in form VA-8453. If using the Practitioner PIN, form VA-8879 will be used. These documents will be filed by the preparer for a period of three years.
Refund Status. To check the status of your refund enter your Social Security Number, tax year of the return filed and the expected refund amount (to the nearest dollar). If you e-Filed your tax return your refund will be processed in about one week. If you filed your tax return on paper, your refund could take up to seven weeks to process. If you mailed your tax return using certified mail, it could take one to three weeks before we receive it from the Post Office. Next year consider using e-File and have your refund deposited directly into your bank account if you would like to receive your refund faster. Social Security Number:
The efile.com tax software makes it easy for you to efile your state tax return and use the correct state tax forms. Prepare and efile your Virginia state tax return (resident, nonresident, or part-year resident) and Federal tax return together or separately at efile.com. View the federal filing requirements to see if you need to file a federal income tax return. 
- Virginia Mailing Address: If a tax payment in form of a check or money order is attached to the form being mailed, then mail to: Virginia Department of Taxation P.O. Box 760 Richmond, Virginia 23218-0760 If no payment is attached, then mail to: Virginia Department of Taxation P.O. You have two options to amend your Virginia tax return: Download and fill out Form 760 yourself. When you're done, print out the form and mail it to one of these addresses: Virginia Department of Taxation, P.O. Box 760, Richmond, Virginia 23218-0760 or Virginia Department of Taxation, P.O. Box 1498, Richmond, Virginia 23218-1498 OR File your Virginia state tax amendment with the help of an efile TaxPro!