Allograft vs. Autograft. An autograft is a bone or tissue that is taken from a part of a person’s own body and transplanted into another. Often, surgeons will use a person’s own hamstring tendon to repair a damaged anterior cruciate ligament. An autograft is a bone or tissue that is taken from a part of a person’s own body and transplanted into another
Definition of AUTOGRAFT. : a tissue or organ that is transplanted from one part to another of the same body. — autograft transitive verb. : a tissue or organ that is transplanted from one part to another part
Autotransplantation is the transplantation of organs, tissues, or even particular proteins from one part of the body to another in the same person (auto- = self-). The autologous tissue (also called autogenous, autogeneic, or autogenic tissue) transplanted by such a procedure is called an autograft or autotransplant. 
avascular graft a graft of tissue in which not even transient vascularization is achieved. bone graft bone transplanted from one site to another. bypass graft an autograft consisting of a segment of vein or artery grafted into place in a bypass. cable graft a nerve graft made up of several sections of nerve in the manner of a cable. coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) see under bypass. cutis graft dermal graft.
autograft. noun au·to·graft \ˈȯt-ō-ˌgraft\. : a tissue or organ that is transplanted from one part to another part of the same body. — autograft transitive verb.
Autograft Bone Definition. Autograft bone is the bone of a patient for use in grafting procedures in their own body. Bone is taken from one part of the body and grafted onto another part of the body to replace damaged tissues. The advantage of an autograft is a high probability of successful bone fusion. However, complications with using a patient's own bone include infection, bleeding, fractures and tissue damage. The procedure may also result in additional chronic pain at the site on the body where the bone was harvested.
An autograft is tissue that is transplanted from one part of the body to another part of the same body. This is also known as an autologous graft, meaning the donor of the tissue and the recipient of the tissue are the same. An autograft typically deals with skin, bone, and blood vessel transplants. Using tissue from one’s own body is often safer and heals more quickly than grafts from another donor.
Medical Definition of AUTOGRAFT. : a tissue or organ that is transplanted from one part to another part of the same body. — autograft transitive verb.