Abundant evidence supports the major contentions of the seafloor-spreading theory. First, samples of the deep ocean floor show that basaltic oceanic crust and overlying sediment become progressively younger as the mid-ocean ridge is approached, and the sediment cover is thinner near the ridge. 
sea-floor spreading. n. In the theory of plate tectonics, the process by which new oceanic crust is formed by the convective upwelling of magma at mid-ocean ridges, resulting in the continuous lateral displacement of existing oceanic crust. 
Definition of SEAFLOOR SPREADING. : the divergence at mid-ocean ridges of the tectonic plates underlying the oceans that is due to upwelling from the earth's interior of magma which solidifies and adds to the spreading plates. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Image Credit: Main Image: Sea-floor spreading is the process in which the ocean floor is extended when two plates move apart. Plates are huge slabs into which the crust as well as the upper part of the mantle (the intermediate zones between the Earth’s crust and core) is divided. Magma is a very hot, molten rock which is formed within the earth by partial melting of the mantle. As a result, the age of the rocks increases as one move away from the rift-zone (place where the earth’s crust is pulled apart). The mid-oceanic ridge is the primary site for sea-floor spreading.
1 Seafloor spreading takes place at midocean ridges and produces basalt, the rock that makes up the oceanic crust. 2  The Mid-Atlantic Ridge and East Pacific Rise are examples of midocean ridges. 3  Midocean ridges reach a typical summit elevation of 2,700 meters below sealevel. 1 Since the seafloor on each side of a midocean ridge moves in opposite directions, each side belongs to a different lithospheric plate. 2  Midocean ridges, transform faults and fracture zones are the key surface features produced by seafloor spreading.
Abundant evidence supports the major contentions of the seafloor-spreading theory. First, samples of the deep ocean floor show that basaltic oceanic crust and overlying sediment become progressively younger as the mid-ocean ridge is approached, and the sediment cover is thinner near the ridge. seafloor spreading Theory that explains how continental drift occurs. It proposes that the ocean floor is moved laterally as new basalt rock is injected along mid-ocean ridges, and so the ocean floor becomes older with increasing distance from the ridge. See also plate tectonics.
Sea-floor spreading occurs where oceanic plates are diverging from one another. Plates are huge slabs into which the crust as well as the upper part of the mantle (the intermediate zones between the Earth’s crust and core) is divided. As the plates move apart, the rocks break and form a crack between the plates. Magma is a very hot, molten rock which is formed within the earth by partial melting of the mantle. As a result, the age of the rocks increases as one move away from the rift-zone (place where the earth’s crust is pulled apart). The mid-oceanic ridge is the primary site for sea-floor spreading.
Abundant evidence supports the major contentions of the seafloor-spreading theory. First, samples of the deep ocean floor show that basaltic oceanic crust and overlying sediment become progressively younger as the mid-ocean ridge is approached, and the sediment cover is thinner near the ridge. Role of the Spreading Center. In 1962 Hess proposed that the seafloor was created at mid-ocean ridges, spreading in both directions from the ridge system. At the spreading center, liquid rock called basaltic magma rises from the earth's mantle as it upwells beneath the spreading axis.
Subduction is the process that destroys oceanic crust, and sea-floor spreading is the process that creates oceanic crust. Sea-floor spreading is driven by crust formation along the mid-ocean ridges, meandering undersea mountain ranges that span Earth like the seams of a baseball. seafloor spreading Theory that explains how continental drift occurs. It proposes that the ocean floor is moved laterally as new basalt rock is injected along mid-ocean ridges, and so the ocean floor becomes older with increasing distance from the ridge. See also plate tectonics.
Age of oceanic crust; youngest (red) is along spreading centers. Seafloor spreading is a process that occurs at mid-ocean ridges, where new oceanic crust is formed through volcanic activity and then gradually moves away from the ridge. Seafloor spreading helps explain continental drift in the theory of plate tectonics. At the Mid-Atlantic Ridge (and in other areas), material from the upper mantle rises through the faults between oceanic plates to form new crust as the plates move away from each other, a phenomenon first observed as continental drift.