The AIRE gene belongs to a family of genes called PHF (PHD-type zinc fingers). A gene family is a group of genes that share important characteristics. Classifying individual genes into families helps researchers describe how genes are related to each other. Specifically, the thymus produces infection-fighting cells called T cells. For a person to remain healthy, immune system cells such as T cells must be able to identify and destroy potentially harmful invaders (such as bacteria and viruses) while sparing the body's normal tissues.
Research in knockout mice has demonstrated that Aire functions through initiating the transcription of a diverse set of self-antigens, such as insulin, in the thymus. This expression then allows maturing thymocytes to become tolerant towards peripheral organs, thereby suppressing autoimmune disease. The autoimmune regulator is mutated in the rare autoimmune syndrome Autoimmune Polyendocrinopathy Syndrome type 1 (APS-1), also known as Autoimmune Polyendocrinopathy-Candidiasis-Ectodermal Dystrophy (APECED).
AIRE mutations reduce or eliminate the function of the autoimmune regulator protein. Without enough of this protein, the immune system can malfunction, resulting in autoimmunity. This abnormal reaction leads to inflammation and can damage otherwise healthy cells and tissues. Specifically, the thymus produces infection-fighting cells called T cells. For a person to remain healthy, immune system cells such as T cells must be able to identify and destroy potentially harmful invaders (such as bacteria and viruses) while sparing the body's normal tissues.
The AQI is an index for reporting daily air quality. It tells you how clean or polluted your air is, and what associated health effects might be a concern for you. The AQI focuses on health effects you may experience within a few hours or days after breathing polluted air.
Look up-aire, Aire, or aire in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. 
The atmosphere surrounding Earth is full of air! The air in our atmosphere is made of molecules of different gases. The most common gases are nitrogen (78%) and oxygen (about 21%). There are other types of air molecules as well, but in very small quantities. Air is important for almost all life on Earth including plants and animals. The air is thinner higher in the atmosphere because there is lower pressure the higher you go up. There is a special layer of air molecules high in the stratosphere layer of Earth’s atmosphere, called the ozone layer.
For other uses, see Aire. The autoimmune regulator (AIRE) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the AIRE gene. AIRE is a transcription factor expressed in the medulla of the thymus and controls the mechanism that prevents the immune system from attacking the body itself. Each T cell attacks a foreign substance presented within a MHC molecule which it identifies with its receptor. The autoimmune regulator is mutated in the rare autoimmune syndrome Autoimmune Polyendocrinopathy Syndrome type 1 (APS-1), also known as Autoimmune Polyendocrinopathy-Candidiasis-Ectodermal Dystrophy (APECED).
The AIRE gene provides instructions for making a protein called the autoimmune regulator. This protein is active primarily in the thymus, which is a gland located behind the breastbone that plays an important role in immune system function. Specifically, the thymus produces infection-fighting cells called T cells. For a person to remain healthy, immune system cells such as T cells must be able to identify and destroy potentially harmful invaders (such as bacteria and viruses) while sparing the body's normal tissues.
In the thymus, the autoimmune regulator causes transcription of a wide selection of organ-specific genes that create proteins that are usually only expressed in peripheral tissues, creating an immunological self-shadow in the thymus. The autoimmune regulator is mutated in the rare autoimmune syndrome Autoimmune Polyendocrinopathy Syndrome type 1 (APS-1), also known as Autoimmune Polyendocrinopathy-Candidiasis-Ectodermal Dystrophy (APECED).
The Adobe AIR runtime enables developers to package the same code into native applications and games for Windows and Mac OS desktops as well as iOS and Android devices, reaching over a billion desktop systems and mobile app stores for over 500 million devices. 