Richard. If memory serves me correctly (and at my age, if often doesn't) Potassium Ferricyanide (I don't know the difference between ferricyanide and cyanide) was used in tintype photography as well as in some print toners. of course tintype photography was late 19th to very early 20th Century. I think the most used was potassium ferricyanide, a salt of potassium (duh!) and a complex of cyanide and ferric ions ([Fe(CN)6]-3). Ferricyanide in itself is not that dangerous if handled properly, but can liberate cyanide gas (HCN) under certain conditions. The latter is highly toxic.
Acute Cyanide Poisoning. Introduction. Acute cyanide exposure is an uncommon exposure the majority of which are unintentional but often results in cardiovascular embarrassment when it occurs. Various inorganic cyanide salts are used industries including metallurgy, photography, plastic manufacturing, and fumigation.
15th December 2011, 03:58 AM #2. If memory serves me correctly (and at my age, if often doesn't) Potassium Ferricyanide (I don't know the difference between ferricyanide and cyanide) was used in tintype photography as well as in some print toners. of course tintype photography was late 19th to very early 20th Century. I think the most used was potassium ferricyanide, a salt of potassium (duh!) and a complex of cyanide and ferric ions ([Fe(CN)6]-3). Ferricyanide in itself is not that dangerous if handled properly, but can liberate cyanide gas (HCN) under certain conditions. The latter is highly toxic.
Cyanide is also used in jewelry-making and certain kinds of photography such as sepia toning. Cyanides are used as insecticides for fumigating ships. Cyanide salts are used for killing ants, and have in some places been used as rat poison (the less toxic poison arsenic is more common). Most cyanides are highly toxic. Organic cyanides are usually called nitriles; in these, the CN group is linked by a covalent bond to a carbon-containing group, such as methyl (CH 3) in methyl cyanide (acetonitrile).
Through a process called gold cyanidation, the cyanide process, or cyanide leach mining, cyanide is used to extract gold from the surrounding rock. While cyanide is both effective and economical, its use and transportation present significant environmental risks. Summary. Cyanide (CN), a single carbon atom triple-bonded to a nitrogen atom, has proved extremely useful in extracting gold from ore. However, with a toxic reputation dating back to the Holocaust, its use in mining has been very controversial.
Potassium cyanide is a compound with the formula K CN. This colorless crystalline salt, similar in appearance to sugar, is highly soluble in water. Most KCN is used in gold mining, organic synthesis, and electroplating. Smaller applications include jewelry for chemical gilding and buffing. KCN is highly toxic. 
Countless industrial sources of cyanides exist. Cyanides are used particularly in the metal trades, mining, jewelry manufacturing, dyeing, photography, and agriculture. Specific industrial processes involving cyanide include metal cleaning, reclaiming, or hardening; fumigation; electroplating; and photo processing. 
1 Photography, chemical research, synthetic plastics, metal processing, and electroplating industries use cyanide. 2  Plants containing cyanide include apricot pits and a type of potato called cassava. 3  Fortunately, only chronic or massive ingestion of any of these plants or pits can lead to serious cyanide poisoning. Patient Comments Share Your Story. Common sources of cyanide poisoning include: 1  Fires: Smoke inhalation during the burning of common substances such as rubber, plastic, and silk can create cyanide fumes. 2  Photography, chemical research, synthetic plastics, metal processing, and electroplating industries use cyanide.
In 1998, approximately70% of gold recovered from cyanide use was from vat-leaching operations, about 30% fromheap-leaching operations. 3 All in all, cyanide leaching is now used to process over 90% ofgold ores (by weight) mined in the United States. 4 The use of cyanide in mining is becoming more and more controversial. 