The selective heating effect of the ultrasound stimulates your body’s own collagen production and over several months, results in a face, brow, jawline, and neck that is visibly lifted. The treatment takes only 30 to 60 minutes and there is no downtime after treatment. Ultherapy is an ultrasound treatment, approved by the FDA, for counteracting the effects of time and gravity on your face. It is a 30-60 minute treatment that uses your body’s own regenerative response to gently and gradually restore memory to the skin and underlying tissue. 
Ultherapy is a new ultrasound treatment, recently approved by the FDA, for counteracting the effects of time and gravity on your face. It is a 1-2 hour treatment that uses your body’s own regenerative response to gently and gradually restore memory to the skin and underlying tissue. The selective heating effect of the ultrasound stimulates your body’s own collagen production and over several months, results in a face and brow that is visibly lifted. The treatment takes between 1-3 hours depending on number of areas treated, and there is no downtime after treatment.
Ultherapy is an entirely non-invasive procedure and as such, there is no downtime. You are able to return to your normal activities right away, and there are no special measures you need to take. 
One of the major benefits of Ultherapy is that there is no downtime following the procedure. Patients are able to return to normal daily activities immediately after treatment. Minor swelling and bruising, tenderness, tingling, and numbness may occur but only lasts for a few days. Because of the deep tightening that is possible with Ultherapy, patients can achieve a more defined jawline, a tighter neck, lifted eyebrows, and a more open look to the eyes. Treatments take about 30-60 minutes, and there is no downtime.
One treatment naturally rejuvenates and strengthens the collagen in the skin. Because of the deep tightening that is possible with Ultherapy, patients can achieve a more defined jawline, a tighter neck, lifted eyebrows, and a more open look to the eyes. Treatments take about 30-60 minutes, and there is no downtime. While Ultherapy does not duplicate the results of a facelift, it is a groundbreaking alternative for patients who want a lift but are not interested in surgery. Ultherapy is also a great option for patients with beginning signs of skin laxity
The first thing you will want to do is schedule a one-on-one consultation with an Ultherapy provider. During this session, your practitioner will address your concerns, assess your skin and determine if you are a candidate for the treatment. Once you book your Ultherapy® procedure, you won’t need to follow any special preparations or skincare regimens in advance of the treatment. To enhance your comfort, your practitioner may recommend that you take an over-the-counter or prescribed medication before the treatment. Treatment Overview FAQs.
After Your Treatment. With Ultherapy, there is no downtime! You can return to your normal activities immediately after your procedure without any post-treatment restrictions or requirements. Your skin might appear flushed at first, but the redness should disappear within a few hours. Once you book your Ultherapy® procedure, you won’t need to follow any special preparations or skincare regimens in advance of the treatment. To enhance your comfort, your practitioner may recommend that you take an over-the-counter or prescribed medication before the treatment. Treatment Overview FAQs.
With Ultherapy, there is no downtime, no foreign substances, no radical change – just a healthy revving-up on the inside for a natural, noticeable effect on the outside. You can immediately continue your daily routine and activities after a single in-office treatment. Ultherapy is the ONLY non-invasive treatment cleared by the FDA for lifting the skin on the neck, chin and brow. Ultherapy is a “focused ultrasound” treatment that counteracts the effects of time and gravity on your skin. Ultherapy is a non-surgical procedure for the face, neck and recently now your Decolletage (décolletage cleavage) area that uses ultrasound and the’body s own natural healing process to, lift, tone and tighten lax. skin
Ultherapy treats the deep foundational layer addressed in cosmetic surgery, but won't duplicate the results of a facelift. Ultherapy is a great alternative, however, especially for those not ready for surgery or for patients looking to extend the effects of cosmetic surgery. Ultherapy is offered by thousands of cosmetic medical practices around the world. Call 1-844-4-ULTHERAPY or visit our Doctor Locator to find and connect with a practice near you.