In 1822, a group of Austin's colonists went up the Brazos River, stopping near present day Richmond where they built a fort called Fort Bend. Named after Richmond, England, the town was among the 19 cities first incorporated by the short-lived Republic of Texas, in 1837. On August 16, 1889, the town was the site of the Battle of Richmond, an armed fight culminating the Jaybird-Woodpecker War, a violent feud over post-Reconstruction political control of Fort Bend County.
1 View all Fort Bend County, TX jobs in Richmond, TX-Richmond jobs. 2  Salary Search: Administrative Secretary salaries in Richmond, TX. 3  Related forums: Fort Bend County, TX-Richmond, Texas - -. 1 View all Fort Bend County jobs in Richmond, TX-Richmond jobs. 2  Salary Search: Volunteer Reserve Deputy Constable salaries in Richmond, TX. 3  Learn more about working at Fort Bend County. 4  Related forums: Fort Bend County
Rosenberg is a city in the U.S. state of Texas, within Houston–The Woodlands–Sugar Land metropolitan area and Fort Bend County. The population was 31,676 at the 2010 census. The community holds the Fort Bend County fair in October. Rosenberg sits adjacent to the city of Richmond, TX. The municipal limits of the two cities border one another, and the two share the same area code.
Richmond, the county seat of Fort Bend County, is on the Brazos River fifteen miles southwest of Houston. The city's transportation links include U.S. highways 90A and 59, the Southern Pacific Railroad, and the Atchison, Topeka, and Santa Fe Railway. Historic points of interest in Richmond include the Morton Cemetery established in 1825, the 1908 Historic County Courthouse, the 1883 Home of Congressman John M. Moore and the Long-Smith Cottage on the grounds of the Fort Bend Museum, and many more beautiful and historic homes.
Richmond is a city in the U.S. state of Texas and the seat of Fort Bend County, within Houston–The Woodlands–Sugar Land metropolitan area. As of the 2010 U.S. Census, the city population was 11,679. Richmond city boundaries are joined on one hand with Sugar Land and with the city of Rosenberg on the other hand. On August 16, 1889, the town was the site of the Battle of Richmond, an armed fight culminating the Jaybird-Woodpecker War, a violent feud over post-Reconstruction political control of Fort Bend County.
1 View all Fort Bend County jobs in Richmond, TX-Richmond jobs. 2  Salary Search: Equipment Operator salaries in Richmond, TX. 3  Learn more about working at Fort Bend County. 4  Related forums: Fort Bend County-Richmond, Texas - -. 1 View all Fort Bend County jobs in Richmond, TX-Richmond jobs. 2  Salary Search: Volunteer Reserve Deputy Constable
1 View all Fort Bend County jobs in Richmond, TX-Richmond jobs. 2  Salary Search: Administrative Deputy salaries in Richmond, TX. 3  Learn more about working at Fort Bend County. 4  Related forums: Fort Bend County-Richmond, Texas - -. 1 View all Fort Bend County jobs in Richmond, TX-Richmond jobs. 2  Salary Search: Volunteer Reserve Deputy Constable
Notable locations in Richmond: Richmond Fire Department Station 1 (A) , Fort Bend County Courthouse (B) , Fort Bend County Sheriff's Office (C) , Richmond Police Department (D) , Fort Bend Museum (E) . Display/hide their locations on the map. According to our research of Texas and other state lists there were 86 registered sex offenders living in Richmond, Texas as of October 14, 2015.
About Fort Bend Country Club. Escape to the serenity of majestic oaks, tall pines, and mature native Texas trees to Fort Bend Country Club in Richmond, Texas conveniently located just minutes south of Sugar Land off U.S. Highway 59. Founded in 1950, the club offers golfing, swimming and socializing in a friendly, country atmosphere.