Small business expert Rieva Lesonsky suggests you keep employment records for a minimum of two years and for up to seven years. She says that most states have a two-year statute of limitations on lawsuit filings by former employees, so you want to make sure you have documents at hand if this occurs.
Since employees may come and go, you may wonder how long you should hang on to the employee records. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) weighs in on records pertaining to employee taxes, such as payroll, but the other records depend on what types of records you have for employees.
Effective January 1, 2013, California law provides that current and former employees (or a representative) have the right to inspect and receive a copy of the personnel files and records that relate to the employee s performance or to any grievance concerning the employee.
Learn how long you should keep personnel records for your business. Hospital Files image by PinkSony from Fotolia.com. When you own and run a business with employees, you have to establish and maintain employee records and personnel files.
When an employment relationship ends, employers have an obligation to store employee personnel files in a secure location. The length of time employee records must be kept varies, according to federal and some state laws concerning employer record keeping.
Employee Contracts. If you have employment contracts with your employees, then you should maintain these contracts for at least 10 years. According to Financial Web, you should “err on the side of caution” and maintain employee records for a longer period than you think you may need, in case a legal issue arises.
Recordkeeping Requirements. EEOC Regulations require that employers keep all personnel or employment records for one year. If an employee is involuntarily terminated, his/her personnel records must be retained for one year from the date of termination. Under ADEA recordkeeping requirements, employers must also keep all payroll records for three ...