Under the terms of the treaty negotiated by Trist, Mexico ceded to the United States Upper California and New Mexico. This was known as the Mexican Cession and included presen … t-day Arizona and New Mexico and parts of Utah, Nevada, and Colorado (see Article V of the treaty). Mexico relinquished all claims to Texas and recognized the Rio Grande as the southern boundary with the United States (see Article V). The Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo ended the war between the U.S. and  Mexico. It was brought on by the defeat of the Mexican forces,  wherein they were forced to give up part … of their lands in exchange  for 15 million dollars.
This was known as the Mexican Cession and included present-day Arizona and New Mexico and parts of Utah, Nevada, and Colorado (see Article V of the treaty). Mexico relinquished all claims to Texas and recognized the Rio Grande as the southern boundary with the United States (see Article V). Polk chose to forward the treaty to the Senate. When the Senate reluctantly ratified the treaty (by a vote of 34 to 14) on March 10, 1848, it deleted Article X guaranteeing the protection of Mexican land grants.
The Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo ended the U.S.-Mexican War. Signed on 2 February 1848, it is the oldest treaty still in force between the United States and Mexico. As a result of the treaty, the United States acquired more than 500,000 square miles of valuable territory and emerged as a world power in the late nineteenth century. The treaty in draft form was brought to Mexico by Nicholas P. Trist, the U.S. peace commissioner, in the summer of 1847. In its basic form it called for the cession of Alta and Baja California and New Mexico, the right of transit across the Tehuantepec isthmus, and the Rio Grande as the southern border of Texas.
The treaty ended the Mexican-American War. The US took possession of lands in the southwest including the current statES OF California, Nevada, UTah, and parts of Arizona an … d New Mexico. The US gave Mexico $15 million and assumed $3.25 million in debt owed by Mexico to US citizens. 15 people found this useful. The Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo ended the war between the U.S. and  Mexico. It was brought on by the defeat of the Mexican forces,  wherein they were forced to give up part … of their lands in exchange  for 15 million dollars.
Background. The Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo (gwah-dah-loop-ay ee-dahl-go), which brought an official end to the Mexican-American War (1846-1848) was signed on February 2, 1848, at Guadalupe Hidalgo, a city north of the capital where the Mexican government had fled with the advance of U.S. forces. Polk chose to forward the treaty to the Senate. When the Senate reluctantly ratified the treaty (by a vote of 34 to 14) on March 10, 1848, it deleted Article X guaranteeing the protection of Mexican land grants.
February 2, 1848 This treaty was signed on February 2, 1848. It ended the Mexican-American war. Mexico also gave the U.S. Texas, New Mexico, and California, and Mexico agreed … that the border between Mexico and the U.S. was (and still is) the Rio Grande. The treaty ended the Mexican-American War. The US took possession of lands in the southwest including the current statES OF California, Nevada, UTah, and parts of Arizona an … d New Mexico. The US gave Mexico $15 million and assumed $3.25 million in debt owed by Mexico to US citizens. 15 people found this useful
Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo: February 2, 1848. Following the defeat of the Mexican army and the fall of Mexico City, in September 1847, the Mexican government surrendered and peace negotiations began. The war officially ended with the February 2, 1848, signing in Mexico of the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo. The treaty added an additional 525,000 square miles to United States territory, including the land that makes up all or parts of present-day Arizona, California, Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico, Utah and Wyoming.
The Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, signed on February 2, 1848, ended the Mexican-American War in favor of the United States. The war had begun almost two years earlier, in May 1846, over a territorial dispute involving Texas. The treaty added an additional 525,000 square miles to United States territory, including the land that makes up all or parts of present-day Arizona, California, Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico, Utah and Wyoming.