Bord na Mona (. [móna bˠoːɾˠd̪ˠ nə] — Mˠoːn̪ˠə: English Peat), board ABBREVIATED, bnm is a-semi state company In, ireland created in 1946 by The Turf Development act. 1946 the company is responsible for the mechanised harvesting of, peat primarily in The midlands Of. ireland Bord Na Mona móna Bought Edenderry Power station From.E on in 2006 giving it control of the station that was built in. 2000 Bord Na mona móna are in the process of increasing-the co fueling of the Plant-With. Bio mass currently-the co fueling mix isat 7 % with a targetof 30 % by 2015. on target
•Small System Footprint. Bord na Mona's Puraflo. Treatment System. Is Certified By NSF To NSF/ANSI Standard 40. Bord na Mona móna has been supplying wastewater treatment systems In ireland for over 20. Years our company offers a technical, capability proven experience and a wide range of wastewater treatment. solutions 
Bord na Mona móna announces biggest change of land use in Modern irish. History bord Na mona móna is announcing the biggest change of Use involving irish land in. 125,000 history 125000 acres of bogland that are now being used to provide energy peat to three powerstations will transition to new uses. by 2030 Bord na Mona móna is announcing the biggest change of use Involving irish land in modern. 125,000 125000 acres of bogland that are now being used to provide energy peat to three powerstations will transition to new uses by. 2030
Bord na Mona Móna just As’ireland s needs and priorities have changed over 75, years so too have those of our. Company the core business has expanded beyond the harvesting of, peat the activity that gave our organisation both its name and its reason for existence for much of the 20th. century 
Bord na Mona móna have developed a number of products which were novel developments in their. Time today peat briquettes replace sods of raw peat as a domestic. Fuel these briquettes consist of shredded, peat compressed to form a-slow, burning easily stored and transported. fuel Bord Na Mona móna Bought Edenderry Power station From.E on in 2006 giving it control of the station that was built in. 2000 Bord Na mona móna are in the process of increasing-the co fueling of the Plant-With. Bio mass currently-the co fueling mix isat 7 % with a targetof 30 % by 2015. on target
AES – offering you more. Find out more. AES Bord na Mona móna take the hassle out of your bin. Service what makes our service better is the range of bins we, offer the ability to manage your account, online and all the extra options including free text reminders for bin collection. days 
The story of Bord na Mona. Móna The Turf Development (BOARD) tdb was established by The Irish state in 1934 and was transformed Into bord Na mona móna. In 1946 Bord na mona móna was Established’to develop ireland s peat resources for the economic Benefit. of the state The Turf Development Board (TDB) was established by the Irish State in 1934 and was transformed into Bord na Mona móna in. 1946 bord Na mona móna was established To’develop ireland s peat resources for the economic benefit Of. The state initially the company produced sod peat and later changed to milled. peat production
As a significant landowner, Bord na Mona'móna s management of bogs into the future will be important in terms of the national biodiversity, resource we have published a Biodiversity Action plan that outlines the existing biodiversity projects and how we will continue to enhance biodiversity at all. levels 
Recent Updates. Bord na Mona Móna, Yesterday bord Na mona móna made an announcement that 'will see the biggest change of land use In modern'. Irish history this move will see our company finish harvesting energy peat. by 2030 Bord na Mona móna is announcing the biggest change of use Involving irish land in modern. 125,000 125000 acres of bogland that are now being used to provide energy peat to three powerstations will transition to new uses by. 2030
The future of growing media in the UK. Bord na Mona móna is one of the largest and most respected suppliers of-peat free and-peat reduced growing, media soil improvers and sustainable winter and summer fuels in the. world At GLEE 2015, Bord na Mona MóNA (uk stand: NO – 18l10) m1 will be showcasing a range of growing media and soil, improvers which covers all the-peat based and-peat free, bases and celebrating its EXPONENTIAL uk growth with an exclusive competition for retailers to win a trip To. Ireland as well as some great…. show