Vulcan allows you to create, read, update and delete data for a specific Firebase database, as well as modify the structure of your Firebase database by adding a child, a branch, or arbitrary JSON to any node. Visit the Chrome App Store to download Vulcan and view the open source repository on GitHub. However, to help developers that are storing arrays in a Firebase database, when data is read using val() or via the REST api, if the data looks like an array, Firebase clients will render it as an array.
All Firebase database data is stored as JSON objects. There are no tables or records. When we add data to the JSON tree, it becomes a key in the existing JSON structure. For example, if we added a child named widgets under users/mchen/ , our data looks as follows: However, to help developers that are storing arrays in a Firebase database, when data is read using val() or via the REST api, if the data looks like an array, Firebase clients will render it as an array.
We refer to this as the app dashboard. All the data in this guide is stored in the docs-examples Firebase database; a read-only version of the app dashboard can be viewed by going to the Firebase URL in a browser. It's possible to directly access child nodes in the data as well. If we try to store an array, it really gets stored as an object with integers as the key names. However, to help developers that are storing arrays in a Firebase database, when data is read using value or via the REST api, if the data looks like an array, Firebase clients will render it as an array.
Data stored in a Firebase database is retrieved by attaching an asynchronous listener to a database reference. The listener will be triggered once for the initial state of the data and again anytime the data changes. The child_added event is typically used when retrieving a list of items from the database. Unlike value which returns the entire contents of the location, child_added is triggered once for each existing child and then again every time a new child is added to the specified path.
We refer to this as the app dashboard. All the data in this guide is stored in the docs-examples Firebase database; a read-only version of the app dashboard can be viewed by going to the Firebase URL in a browser. It's possible to directly access child nodes in the data as well. However, to help developers that are storing arrays in a Firebase database, when data is read using val() or via the REST api, if the data looks like an array, Firebase clients will render it as an array.