Definition of Primary immunodeficiency disease. Primary immunodeficiency disease: A disorder caused by an inherited flaw in the immune system that increases the susceptibility to infections. Primary immunodeficiency diseases are unlike secondary or acquired immune deficiency diseases, which are caused by infectious, chemical or radiological agents. 
Definition. Primary immunodeficiency disorders — also called primary immune disorders or primary immunodeficiency — weaken the immune system, allowing infections and other health problems to occur more easily. 
About Primary Immunodeficiencies. Primary immunodeficiency diseases (PI) are a group of more than 250 rare, chronic disorders in which part of the body’s immune system is missing or functions improperly. Some affect a single part of the immune system; others may affect one or more components of the system. And while the diseases may differ, they all share one common feature: each results from a defect in one of the functions of the body’s normal immune system.
There are more than 200 different forms of primary immune deficiency diseases (PIDDs) affecting only about 500,000 people in the United States. These rare genetic diseases may be chronic, debilitating, and costly. 
Immunodeficiency (or immune deficiency) is a state in which the immune system 's ability to fight infectious disease is compromised or entirely absent. 
To be considered a primary immunodeficiency, the cause of the immune deficiency must not be secondary in nature (i.e., caused by other disease, drug treatment, or environmental exposure to toxins). Signs and symptoms [edit]. The precise symptoms of a primary immunodeficiency depend on the type of defect. Generally, the symptoms and signs that lead to the diagnosis of an immunodeficiency include recurrent or persistent infections or developmental delay as a result of infection.
Most primary immunodeficiencies are genetic disorders; the majority are diagnosed in children under the age of one, although milder forms may not be recognized until adulthood. About 1 in 500 people are born with a primary immunodeficiency. Signs and symptoms [edit]. The precise symptoms of a primary immunodeficiency depend on the type of defect. Generally, the symptoms and signs that lead to the diagnosis of an immunodeficiency include recurrent or persistent infections or developmental delay as a result of infection.
Primary immune deficiency (PID) is the name given to chronic illnesses caused by hereditary or genetic defects in the immune system. There are over 150 forms of PID. Some are mild, some are severe. The immune system protects our bodies from germs such as bacteria and viruses that cause infections. 
Symptoms. One of the most common signs of primary immunodeficiency is an increased susceptibility to infections. You may have infections that are more frequent, longer lasting or harder to treat than are the infections of someone with a normal immune system. Signs and symptoms of primary immunodeficiency can include: 1  Frequent and recurrent pneumonia, bronchitis, sinus infections, ear infections, meningitis or skin infections. 2  Inflammation and infection of internal organs. 3  Blood disorders, such as low platelet counts or anemia.