Clomipramine is approved for OCD treatment in children, teens, and adults. Although antidepressants, such as clomipramine, are effective for treating the symptoms of OCD, behavior therapy for OCD is often used along with medications. Ask your healthcare provider about behavior therapy for OCD. Clomipramine belongs to a class of medications called tricyclic antidepressan
Last reviewed on RxList 6/9/2015. Anafranil (clomipramine hydrochloride) is a tricyclic antidepressant used to treat symptoms of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) such as recurrent thoughts or feelings and repetitive actions. 
Clomipramine is a tricyclic antidepressant. It affects chemicals in the brain that may become unbalanced. Clomipramine is used to treat symptoms of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) such as recurrent thoughts or feelings and repetitive actions. Clomipramine may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide.
Uses. Clomipramine is used in dogs to treat behavior problems such as separation anxiety, excessive barking and destructive behavior. Clomipramine can also be used in cats to help treat certain behavior problems such as urine spraying, certain types of aggression, or compulsive behaviors like excessive grooming. This drug should be used in conjunction with behavioral modification techniques. Clomipramine is contraindicated for use in animals with a hypersensitivity to Clomipramine or related tricyclic antidepressants. Cats may be more sensitive to the drug’s side effects. Be sure to let your veterinarian know of other medications your pet is on or may be taking.
Tell your doctor immediately if any of these rare but very serious side effects occur: easy bruising/bleeding, signs of infection (e.g., fever, persistent sore throat), unusual/uncontrolled movements (especially of the tongue /face/lips), severe stomach/ abdominal pain, dark urine, yellowing of eyes / skin. Before taking clomipramine, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to other tricyclic antidepressants (e.g., imipramine, nortriptyline); or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems.
Uses. Clomipramine is used to treat obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD). It helps decrease persistent/unwanted thoughts (obsessions), and it helps reduce the urge to perform repeated tasks (compulsions such as hand-washing, counting, checking) that interfere with daily living. Before taking clomipramine, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to other tricyclic antidepressants (e.g., imipramine, nortriptyline); or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems.
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Clomipramine (Anafranil) is a psychotropic agent used to treat obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Clomipramine shares structural similarities with a class of antidepressants known as tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs). Although not approved by the FDA for these indications, clomipramine is used off-label for the treatment of major depression, panic attacks, anxiety disorders, and premature ejaculation. Medically Reviewed by a Doctor on 12/10/2014. Report Problems to the Food and Drug Administration.
Clomipramine (trademarked as Anafranil and Clofranil) is a tricyclic antidepressant (TCA). It was developed in the early 1960s by the Swiss drug manufacturer Geigy (now known as Novartis) and has been in clinical use worldwide ever since. It is the 3- chlorinated derivative of the earlier tricyclic, imipramine. Clomipramine has a number of uses in medicine including in the treatment of: 1  Obsessive–compulsive disorder (OCD) which is its only U.S. FDA-labelled indication. 2  Other regulatory agencies (such as the TGA of Australia and the MHRA of the UK) have also approved clomipramine for this indication
1 Clomipramine (Anafranil) is not usually used to treat depression. 2  It is most often used to treat OCD, panic attacks, chronic pain, bedwetting and many other problems. 3  The usual initial dose of clomipramine is 25 mg/day divided into three doses. 4  The dose is gradually increased to 150 mg/day or higher. 1 It is most often used to treat OCD, panic attacks, chronic pain, bedwetting and many other problems. 2  The usual initial dose of clomipramine is 25 mg/day divided into three doses. 3