Main article: Climate change in the United States. The United States is the second largest emitter, after China, of carbon dioxide from the burning of fossil fuels. The energy policy of the United States is widely debated; many call on the country to take a leading role in fighting global warming.
Beyond being a powerful demographic force responsible for how the country and its population became what they are today, immigration has contributed deeply to many of the economic, social, and political processes that are foundational to the United States as a nation. 
Below are the top 10 issues facing our youth today. Editor’s Note: This is one of our most popular lists of all time. While you may not agree with everything on this list you are probably here because you are concerned about the issues in our society and the problems we face to make our world a better place. 
Changing patterns of fertility and immigration have put the United States on a short road to a population diversity never before experienced by any nation—a population in which all races and ethnicities are part of minority groups that make up a complex whole. Trends in immigration and birth rates indicate that soon there will be no majority racial or ethnic group in the United States—no one group that makes up more than fifty percent of the total population. Already almost one in ten U.S. counties has a population that is more than fifty percent minority.
The Latino population is driving these transformations. While today one of every eight residents of the United States is Latino, it is projected that Latinos could account for one of every five residents by 2035, one of every four by 2055, and one of every three by 2100. 
During a time when the health care industry is undergoing a variety of changes caused by not only modern technology but an overall change in the United States health care system, today’s health care administrators are faced with new and unprecedented challenges. The United States health care system has been greatly affected by the Supreme Court’s decision to uphold the Affordable Care Act in June of 2012. The reform works to expand coverage, enhance the quality of health care in America, lower costs and hold insurance companies accountable.
Predicting future climate changes are fraught with difficultly. Some research has warned against possible problems due to American climate changes such as the spread of invasive species and possibilities of floods as well as droughts. Changes in climate in the regions of the United States appear significant. In 2012, the United States experienced its warmest year on record. As of 2012, the thirteen warmest years for the entire planet have all occurred since 1998, transcending those from 1880. From 1950 to 2009, the American government's surface temperature record shows an increase by 1 °F (0.56 °C), approximately.
Introduction. Our era is often said to be a time of rapid technological change, but the social changes occurring in this country and elsewhere are equally dramatic. In 1960, for example, 19% of women with children under the age of 6 were in the workforce in the United States; today, 57% are. The proportion of households headed by a single parent—usually the mother—also has increased sharply: from 11% to 26% of all families with children over the period 1970-1992. First, it shows how many Americans are poor, that is, do not have the financial resources to meet their basic needs. Second, it is used to establish eligibility for various programs and thus has a major effect on the flow of federal funds; programs in this category include Medicaid, Medicare, and food stamps.
The history of the United States is what happened in the past in the United States, a country in North America. Native Americans have lived there for thousands of years, long before Europeans went there. Mainly English people went. In 1607, they went to Jamestown, Virginia. After the Revolution, the United States set about becoming a new nation with George Washington becoming its first president. The leaders of the states created a constitution in 1787 and a Bill of Rights in 1791.
The face of our nation is changing, and nowhere is the change more evident than in public school classrooms. Just consider this: Compared with the last century, we are increasingly aging and white on the one hand and young and multi-hued on the other. Trends in immigration and birth rates indicate that soon there will be no majority racial or ethnic group in the United States—no one group that makes up more than fifty percent of the total population. Already almost one in ten U.S. counties has a population that is more than fifty percent minority.