Cheyanne's name origin is Native American Indian, and the meaning of Cheyanne is unintelligible speakers. Cheyanne is an alternate form of Cheyenne (Native American Indian): from the French name shaiyena. Chavanne is a conventional surname. Kreatif forms: Cheyande, Cheyanle, Cheyannea. 
Definition of CHEYENNE for Kids. 1. : a member of an American Indian people of the western plains ranging between the Arkansas and Missouri rivers. 2. : the language of the Cheyenne people. Definition of CHEYENNE. 1. : a member of an American Indian people of the western plains of the United States. 2. : the Algonquian language of the Cheyenne people. See Cheyenne defined for English-language learners. See Cheyenne defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
Cheyenne-Meaning of Cheyenne. Tweet. Cheyenne is of Dakota origin and it is predominantly used in the English language. The name is of disputed origin; it could be from shahiyena, the Dakota name of a Native American tribe of the Great Plains. 
It would have never occured to me that Cheyenne was both feminine and masculine. Though it makes sense since it's a name of an Indian Tribe. -- Tbird 7/5/2005. Some say that Cheyenne was a Korean name (because others may pronounce it as che-yin) so my classmates and friends thought I was Korean or Chinese. 
More About Chinese Name: Cheyenne. Cheyenne are a Native American nation of the Great Plains and capital city of Wyoming. The Cheyenne Nation is composed of two united tribes. The name Cheyenne derives from Dakota Sioux Sahiyena, meaning little Saha­sahã. ya 
(viewable to Premium Members only). Below is a brief analysis of the first name only. For an analysis of your full name and destiny, see our full free Name and Birth Date Report service for further details. 1  Your name of Cheyenne creates a quick, clever mind capable of grasping and assimilating new ideas. 1 Your name of Cheyenne creates a quick, clever mind capable of grasping and assimilating new ideas. 2  You are rather studious, mentally challenging each new idea before accepting it.
Login To Favorites. The Cheyenne language is a Native American language spoken by the Cheyenne people, primarily in present day Montana and Oklahoma in the United States. Cheyenne is a part of the Algonquian language family and more specifically it originated in the Great Plains region of early North America. 
What does Cheyenne mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Cheyenne is of Native American Sioux origin. The meaning of Cheyenne is people of a different speech. They call themselves Tsistsistas meaning beautiful people. It was the Sioux who named them Cheyenne meaning people of a different speech, because they did not understand the Algonquian language which they spoke. Cheyenne is the capital and most populous city in the state of Wyoming