1 The heart of a normal individual beats re-flexively about 40 million times a year. 2  During this time, over 4000 gallons, or 10 tons, of blood are circulated each day, and every night the heart's workload is equivalent to a person carrying a thirty-pound pack to the top of the 10 -story Empire State Building.
1 To find out if your are exercising in your target zone (between 60 and 80 percent of your maximum heart rate), stop exercising and check your 10-second pulse. 2  If your pulse is below your target zone, increase your rate of exercise. 3  If your pulse is above your target zone, de
1 You gain the most benefits and lessen the risks when you exercise in your target heart rate zone. 2  Usually this is when your exercise heart rate (pulse) is 60 to 80 percent of your maximum heart rate. 3  In some cases, your health care provider may decrease your target heart rate zone to begin with 50 percent.
The more intense the exercise is the longer it will take for heart rate to return to its resting rate. With low-moderate intensity aerobic fitness training (as indicated in the graph) heart rates return to normal within 10-20 minutes.
Overview. An increased heart rate, also known as tachycardia, is a heart rate that's beyond the normal range for a typical resting heart rate. Resting heart rates are the number of times per minute that your heart beats while you're at rest or sleeping.
Exercise training over long periods of time can affect your heart rate response to exercise. Someone who has low fitness will have a stronger heart rate response to exercise than someone who is physically fit. The human body has evolved to try to remain in homeostasis--or a state of equilibrium--because it saves energy.
Your pulse is your heart rate, or the number of times your heart beats in one minute. 2 Pulse rates vary from person to person. Your pulse is lower when you are at rest and increases when you exercise (more oxygen-rich blood is needed by the body when you exercise).
Physiological Influences. The main reasons for the heart rate response to exercise are physiological, meaning that they are normal functions of your organ systems. Increased activity in the nerves of your working muscles triggers an increase in activity of the sympathetic nervous system.