Aspect Ratio. This identifies the tire’s aspect ratio, which is the relationship of the tire’s sidewall height to the tire’s width. In this example, the sidewall height of the tire is 55% of its width. The lower the ratio, the smaller the sidewall height, which means better cornering, but a rougher ride. Also called Section Width, this is the width of the tire (or thickness) in millimeters, if measured from a tire’s widest point of its outer sidewall to the widest point of its inner sidewall.
The bead is the part of the tire that contacts the rim on the wheel. The bead is typically reinforced with steel wire and compounded of high strength, low flexibility rubber. The bead seats tightly against the two rims on the wheel to ensure that a tubeless tire holds air without leakage. When a wheel and tire rotate, they exert a centrifugal force on the axle that depends on the location of their center of mass and the orientation of their moment of inertia. This is referred to as balance, imbalance, or unbalance.
The first character(s) in a tire size designate the tire's class. In this example, P indicates that the tire is a passenger car tire. An LT before the tire size designates a light truck tire, and no letter before the size indicates that it is a European metric tire.
Tire rolling resistance is the amount of energy needed to keep your tires rolling at a straight and steady pace, and it can have a big impact on your car's fuel efficiency. If you're a city driver, tire rolling resistance accounts for about 15% of your car's overall resistance (25% on highway where there's less stop and go). When you hear overall resistance, it means anything and everything that inhibits forward momentum, including your car's aerodynamics.
Despite advances in longer-lasting tires, actual tread life will vary by car type, tire type (such as all season or high performance), driving aggressiveness, and even road and weather conditions. Car owners still need to replace their tires a few times or more throughout the life of a typical vehicle. Despite advances in longer-lasting tires, actual tread life will vary by car type, tire type (such as all-season or high-performance), driving aggressiveness, and even road and weather conditions. If you're looking for information about tires, Consumer Reports is your best resource.
A bicycle tire is a tire that fits on the wheel of a bicycle, unicycle, tricycle, quadracycle, bicycle trailer, or trailer bike. They may also be used on wheelchairs and handcycles, especially for racing. The net air pressure on the tire is the difference between the internal inflation pressure and the external atmospheric pressure, 1 bar (100 kPa; 15 psi), and most tire pressure gauges report this difference.
The valve stem is a tube made of metal or rubber, through which the tire is inflated, with a check valve, typically a Schrader valve on automobiles and most bicycle tires, or a Presta valve on high-performance bicycles. Valve stems usually protrude through the wheel for easy access. When a wheel and tire rotate, they exert a centrifugal force on the axle that depends on the location of their center of mass and the orientation of their moment of inertia. This is referred to as balance, imbalance, or unbalance.
Tire Width is the width of the tire measured in millimeters from sidewall to sidewall. The first three-digit number in the tire size refers to the tire width. For instance, in a size P215/65 R15 tire, the width is 215 millimeters. Aspect Ratio is the ratio of the height of the tire's cross-section to its width. The two-digit number after the slash mark in a tire size is the aspect ratio. For example, in a size P215/65 R15 tire, the 65 means that the height is equal to 65% of the tire's width. The bigger the aspect ratio, the bigger the tire's sidewall will be. Construction. The letter R in a tire size stands for Radial, which means the layers run radially across the tire. Wheel Diameter is the size of the wheel measured from one end to the other.
Synonyms: tire 1, weary, fatigue, exhaust. These verbs mean to cause or undergo depletion of energy, strength, or interest. Tire often suggests a state resulting from exertion, excess, dullness, or ennui: When a man is tired of London, he is tired of life (Samuel Johnson). 