Horse meat can be used in many recipes that call for pork, mutton, beef, or venison. It is very versatile meat. Raw hose sashimi in Japan is called sakura or sakuraniku. It is also served raw in Belgium in steak tartare, especially in the city of Vilvoorder, Belgium. Horse meat is most commonly associated with the cuisines of Kazakhstan, Mongolia, and Kyrgyzstan—countries that were traditionally nomadic horse cultures. But horse meat is eaten all over the world. In fact, Canada, for example, produces 18,000 tonnes of horse meat each year.
Horse meat is popular in several European countries and horses are raised for just that purpose in France, Viande de Cheveaux or La Viande Chevaline. Italy is … another country where it is available at markets,or prepared as Came di Cavallo and ordered at restaurants. Horse meat has been eaten in many countries for probably thousands of years. Like all of so many different food taboos in societies, in the US and other parts of the world, ho … rse meat consumption is considered a strictly taboo food.
There are currently no establishments in the United States that slaughter horses, and FSIS does not allow imports of horse meat from other countries for human consumption, said Brian Mabry, USDA's Food Safety and Inspection Service in a statement. Duquette, 47, is a horse trainer who started a group called United Horsemen in 2007, which is in favor of permitting horse slaughter and meat. The problem has gotten worse with horses that are abandoned, neglected, abused and starving to death and the direct cause is this and the economy, Duquette said.
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Here is the definition from Wikipedia: Horse meat-Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Horse meat is used in a stew called pastissada, served as horse or colt steaks, ... In Japanese cuisine, raw horse meat is called sakura (桜) or sakuraniku (桜肉, ... Source(s): 40 years of horsin around. 
Horse meat (or horse beef) is the culinary name for meat cut from a horse. It is a major meat in only a few countries, notably in Tonga and Central Asia, but it forms a significant part of the culinary traditions of many others, from Europe to South America to Asia. In 2005, the five biggest horse meat-consuming countries were China (421,000 tonnes), Mexico, Russia, Italy, and Kazakhstan (54,000 tonnes). In 2010, Mexico produced 140,000 tonnes, China - 126,000 tonnes, Kazakhstan - 114,000 tonnes.
Horse is commonly eaten in many countries in Europe and Asia. It is not a generally available food in some English-speaking countries such as the United Kingdom, Australia, Ireland, the United States, and English Canada. It is also taboo in Brazil, Israel, and among the Romani people and Jewish people the world over. In 2005, the five biggest horse meat-consuming countries were China (421,000 tonnes), Mexico, Russia, Italy, and Kazakhstan (54,000 tonnes). In 2010, Mexico produced 140,000 tonnes, China - 126,000 tonnes, Kazakhstan - 114,000 tonnes.
Horse Meat. Horse meat is a very common source of meat in many cuisines of the world, especially in Mexico and Central Asia. Horse meat is most commonly associated with the cuisines of Kazakhstan, Mongolia, and Kyrgyzstan—countries that were traditionally nomadic horse cultures. But horse meat is eaten all over the world. In fact, Canada, for example, produces 18,000 tonnes of horse meat each year.
Horse meat is the culinary name for meat cut from a horse. It is slightly sweet, tender, low in fat, and high in protein. Horse meat is eaten in Austria, Belgium, Canada … , Chile, China, France, Germany, Iceland, Indonesia, and in Italy. In Japan, Kazakhstan, Malta, Mongolia, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Slovenia, Sweden, and in Switzerland. Horse meat has been eaten in many countries for probably thousands of years. Like all of so many different food taboos in societies, in the US and other parts of the world, ho … rse meat consumption is considered a strictly taboo food.
Horse meat is used in a variety of recipes: as a stew called pastissada (typical of Verona), served as steaks, as carpaccio, or made into bresaola. Thin strips of horse meat called sfilacci are popular. Horse fat is used in recipes such as pezzetti di cavallo. In 2005, the five biggest horse meat-consuming countries were China (421,000 tonnes), Mexico, Russia, Italy, and Kazakhstan (54,000 tonnes). In 2010, Mexico produced 140,000 tonnes, China - 126,000 tonnes, Kazakhstan - 114,000 tonnes.
Answer: Horsemeat is actually called cheval. As with other meat, the names came into English with the Normans in the 11th century. Hence, beouf became beef and horse is cheval. 