Depending on whom you ask, driving for Lyft or UberX is either a gold mine or an exploitative labor practice. Uber last year infamously claimed many of its drivers made more than $90,000 per year, but it did not account for the cost of driver expenses like gas and car maintenance. I drive for Uber in the San Francisco Bay Area. My story is I don't really make that much as an Uber driver. Guess people have the misconception of Uber drivers making tons of money due to their advertising. In reality, it ranges from $3 to $35 an hour depending on the distance of the ride.
Uber Needs Partners Like You. Drive with Uber and earn great money as an independent contractor. Get paid weekly just for helping our community of riders get rides around town. Be your own boss and get paid in fares for driving on your own schedule. 
Business Insider wrote a piece called  Here's How Much Money You Can Really Earn As An Uber Driver . Uber claims $15/hour. The article states that after tolls, Uber's 20% cut, gas, car insurance, vehicle financing, and self employment taxes, the driver really only made $54.50 for 12 hours of driving. 56.5k Views. At the end of last year we did a survey on driver earnings from a subset of UberX drivers across the United States to see how much drivers were making. In addition, after rate changes this year we heard from drivers in 35 out of the 48 cities that had rate changes.
With uberX, essentially anyone with a car can sign up to be a driver. And Uber makes it pretty easy to do. The first step is to head on over to this website. If you're at least 21 years old, have a license, personal auto insurance, and a four-door car in good condition, you can sign up to be a driver. The next step is passing Uber's background check.
Ultimately, it’s up to drivers to choose whether Uber makes sense for them, and the results seem to speak for themselves. In the United States, Uber says, more than 160,000 drivers had partnered with the company by the end of 2014, and almost 40,000 new U.S. drivers provided their first trips in December of last year. Indeed, slightly more than half of Uber drivers became inactive one year after joining the service, suggesting they quit or found other work. That isn’t necessarily a bad thing. One of Uber’s major selling points is that anyone can drive a car to earn a little extra money, and it has clearly succeeded in this regard.
There is also no such thing as an Uber driver salary. As described above, drivers are paid a portion of the fare for every ride that is given. As promised, here is an example of my pay for one 10 ½ hour day: $256.30 / 10.5 hours = $24.41 an hour. This is very close to the $19 an hour the average Uber driver makes around the country. I’ve found that the more hours I drive, the more I make per hour. If I drive 30 hours a week or more I usually make closer to $25 an hour.
As I already explained, how much money an Uber driver makes depends on numerous factors. As a practical example, let’s assume you make $20 an hour after taxes and expenses, and you work 40 hours a week, like a regular full-time job: $19 x 40 hours/week= $760 a week. This is very close to the $19 an hour the average Uber driver makes around the country. I’ve found that the more hours I drive, the more I make per hour. If I drive 30 hours a week or more I usually make closer to $25 an hour.
If you want to make a living off of Uber, you're going to have to drive an insane number of hours. In order to make $75,000 a year driving for uberX in San Francisco, you'd have to work 3,000 hours per year, which is effectively a 58-hour work week, financial journalist Felix Salmon concluded. The first step is to head on over to this website. If you're at least 21 years old, have a license, personal auto insurance, and a four-door car in good condition, you can sign up to be a driver. The next step is passing Uber's background check.
Uber driver pay varies depending on where you live and how many hours you drive. I make between $20 and $25 an hour in Los Angeles. Studies across the nation show that Uber drivers make over $19 an hour on average. In New York City, the average Uber driver makes over $30 an hour. This is very close to the $19 an hour the average Uber driver makes around the country. I’ve found that the more hours I drive, the more I make per hour. If I drive 30 hours a week or more I usually make closer to $25 an hour.