There is evidence that some of the (his) plays were performed before Shakespeare wrote them (possibly no one had written them down before). Not a lot had been written down before; almost nothing about Shakespeare’s life seems to have been written down. Also, there’s evidence that Shakespeare improved some of the plays from their former condition when he wrote them.
No Elizabethan documents support the claim that Shakespeare's plays and poems were written by someone else, or that the actor Shakespeare was not the author Shakespeare. There is also no evidence to suggest that the name used by this man who crafted the plays, sonnets, and poems was a pseudonym.
But it’s especially interesting to note that for a span of more than two centuries after his death, no one even suggested that the Shakespeare of Stratford was not the author of his own plays.
I believe they were written by Wm. Shakespeare, an actor from Stratford on Avon. OH, and he did not write two different versions of his plays. The printed versions of his plays were often done by people who tried to copy down the plays while they were being performed.
Marlowe wrote Edward II, while Shakespeare wrote plays about King John, Henry IV, Henry V, Henry VI, Richard III, and Henry VIII. His first play about Henry VI was so popular that he wrote a sequel and then a prequel. Tragedies told unhappy tales which often ended in deaths, like Shakespeare’s Romeo and Juliet.
There are a number of theories surrounding the authorship of Shakespeare’s plays, but most are based on one of the following three ideas: 1  The William Shakespeare of Stratford-upon-Avon and the William Shakespeare working in London were two separate people. 2  They have been falsely connected by historians.
Because of all the contemporary evidence documenting the life of William Shakespeare of Stratford and linking him to his plays, anti-Stratfordians have to posit that Shakespeare was a front for some other secret author.
1 The William Shakespeare of Stratford-upon-Avon and the William Shakespeare working in London were two separate people. 2  They have been falsely connected by historians. 3  Someone called William Shakespeare did work with Burbage’s theater company at The Globe, but did not write the plays.