Spontaneous Chemical Processes. A chemical reaction is spontaneous when the difference between the change in its enthalpy and entropy is negative; subtracting entropy from enthalpy yields a quantity called the Gibbs free energy, a measure of work.
Entropy and the Second Law ofThermodynamics Entropy • Entropy, S, is a measure of the disorder of a system.• Spontaneous reactions proceed to lower energy or higherentropy.• In ice, the molecules are very well ordered because of theH-bonds.• Therefore, ice has a low entropy. 
1 2nd law of thermo tells us which processes in nature may or may not occur. 2  E.g. in 2 objects in thermal contact, it is spontaneous for heat to flow from the warmer to cooler object, but it is nonspontaneous to occur in the opposite direction. From 2nd law of thermo, this is impossible. E.g. K of a refrigerator = 5 or 6. Clausius form of the 2nd law of thermo: “It is impossible to use a cyclic process to transfer heat from a colder to a hotter body without doing work on the system.”. i.e. heat will not flow spontaneously from a cold to a hot object.
(b) No. δS is a state function, so it is independent of path. 19.23 (a) CH 3 OH(l) → CH 3 OH(g), entropy increases, more mol gas in products, greater motional freedom. (b) 19.25 (a) For a spontaneous process, the entropy of the universe increases; for a reversible process, the entropy of the universe does not change. (b) In a reversible process, δS system + δS surroundings = 0. If δS system is positive, δS surroundings must be negative. (c) Since δS universe must be positive for a spontaneous process, δS surroundings must be greater than –42 J/K. 19.27 Analyze. Calculate δS for the isothermal expansion of 0.100 mol He from 2.00 L to 5.00 L at 27°C. Plan
When δS is negative and δH is negative, the relative magnitudes of δS and δH determine if the reaction is spontaneous. Low temperatures make the reaction more favorable. When δS is negative and δH is positive, a process is not spontaneous at any temperature, but the reverse process is spontaneous. A spontaneous process is the time-evolution of a system in which it releases free energy (usually as heat) and moves to a lower, more thermodynamically stable energy state. A spontaneous process is capable of proceeding in a given direction, as written or described, without needing to be driven by an outside source of energy.
• For reversible adiabatic process or reversible reactions, ∆S = 0. Where ∆S = change in entropy of the system + surroundings (the universe). ∆S = ∫dS = ∫dQ r / T. For reversible adiabatic process, no heat is transferred between system and surroundings, so ∆S = 0. From 2nd law of thermo, this is impossible. E.g. K of a refrigerator = 5 or 6. Clausius form of the 2nd law of thermo: “It is impossible to use a cyclic process to transfer heat from a colder to a hotter body without doing work on the system.”. i.e. heat will not flow spontaneously from a cold to a hot object.
Such a reverse reaction is non spontaneous. A process that is spontaneous in one direction is non spontaneous in the opposite direction. Consider the following physical and chemical processes as a way of looking and identifying spontaneous processes. To show entropy is a state function we must prove that the total change in the entropy of a system is zero for any cyclic process. ∫ dV = 0. This will be done in Lesson No 2. Calculation of change in entropy in a reversible expansion of ideal gas at constant temperature.
The reaction is spontaneous because its Gibbs free energy is lower after the reaction than before; the entropy at the end of the process is greater than the enthalpy. The reaction takes heat from the water, so it is endothermic. A chemical reaction is spontaneous when the difference between the change in its enthalpy and entropy is negative; subtracting entropy from enthalpy yields a quantity called the Gibbs free energy, a measure of work.
(1.4). The entropy change for a system is accompanied by an entropy change in the surroundings. For a reversible process, these two entropy changes balance, and the total entropy change is zero. For an irreversible process (a spontaneous process) the total entropy change is positive. There are no absolute values for internal energy, U and enthalpy, H. The entropies, however, have absolute values. The third law of thermodynamics states that the entropy is equal to zero for a perfect crystal at zero Kelvin. To show entropy is a state function we must prove that the total change in the entropy of a system is zero for any cyclic process. ∫ dV = 0. This will be done in Lesson No 2. Calculation of change in entropy in a reversible expansion of ideal gas at constant temperature.
1 If a process is found to be spontaneous, the reverse process is nonspontaneous. 2  Both spontaneous and nonspontaneous processes are possible but only spontaneous process will occur naturally. 3  Non spontaneous processes require the system to be acted upon in some way. To show entropy is a state function we must prove that the total change in the entropy of a system is zero for any cyclic process. ∫ dV = 0. This will be done in Lesson No 2. Calculation of change in entropy in a reversible expansion of ideal gas at constant temperature.