Although interlanguage is not a random hodgepodge collection of unsystematic errors,it has a rule system that is different from the rule system used by native speakers of the language. In error analysis, you looked at learner language in terms of deviance from the target language rules; that deviance we call ‘error’. Interlanguage is usefully viewed as a separate transitional linguistic system (at all levels: phonology, morphology, syntax, semantics, pragmatics) that can be described in terms of evolving linguistic patterns and rules, and explained in terms of specific cognitive and sociolinguistic processes that shape it.
It is possible to apply an interlanguage perspective to an L2-user's underlying knowledge of the target language sound system (interlanguage phonology), grammar (morphology and syntax), vocabulary (lexicon), and language-use norms found among L2-users (interlanguage pragmatics). A L2-user's interlanguage preserves some features of their first language (or L1), and can also overgeneralize the target language's writing and speaking rules.
Definition: The type of language (or linguistic system) used by second-and foreign-language learners who are in the process of learning a target language. Interlanguage pragmatics is the study of the ways in which nonnative speakers acquire, comprehend, and use linguistic patterns (or speech acts) in a second language. 1 The issue, then, is whether the interlanguage representation is a possible grammar, not whether it is identical to the L2 grammar.. ( 2 Lydia White, On the Nature of Interlanguage Representation.. 3  The Handbook of Second Language Acquisition, ed. by Catherine Doughty and Michael H. Long.
According to Corder this temporary and changing grammatical system, interlanguage, which is constructed by the learner, approximates the grammatical system of the target language. Fossilization includes those items, rules, and sub-systems that second language learners tend to retain in their interlanguage, that is, all those aspects of interlanguage that become entrenched and permanent, and that the majority of second language learners can only eliminate with considerable effort.
1 Such a process results in a linguistic system known as ' interlanguage ' (Selinker, 1972), which, to varying degrees, approximates that of the target language (TL). 1 The issue, then, is whether the interlanguage representation is a possible grammar, not whether it is identical to the L2 grammar.. ( 2 Lydia White, On the Nature of Interlanguage Representation.. 3  The Handbook of Second Language Acquisition, ed. by Catherine Doughty and Michael H. Long.
Interlanguage is the type of language produced by second-and foreign-language learners who are in the process of learning a language. In language learning, learner s errors are caused by several different processes. There is a continuum from the source language through successive learning stages to the acquisition of the target language. For every stage there is an interlanguage, one for the learner's first attempts to communicate in the target language, one for his near-perfect use of it, and many more in-between.
1 The process of learning a second language (L2) is characteristically non-linear and fragmentary, marked by a mixed landscape of rapid progression in certain areas but slow movement, incubation or even permanent stagnation in others. 1 The issue, then, is whether the interlanguage representation is a possible grammar, not whether it is identical to the L2 grammar.. ( 2 Lydia White, On the Nature of Interlanguage Representation.. 3  The Handbook of Second Language Acquisition, ed. by Catherine Doughty and Michael H. Long.
To study the psychological processes involved one should compare the interlanguage utterances of the L2-user with two things: 1  Utterances in the native language to convey the same message produced by the L2-user. 2  Utterances in the target language to convey the same message, produced by a native speaker of that language. A L2-user's interlanguage preserves some features of their first language (or L1), and can also overgeneralize the target language's writing and speaking rules.
10 most extreme places on Earth. An interlanguage is a type of speech or writing developed by people during the process of learning a new language, when the learner is starting to gain proficiency in the new, or “target,” language but has not mastered it. 1 A type of speech or writing that is a distorted form of a target language that individuals are attempting to learn is referred to as an interlanguage.
Interlanguage in SLA. 1  1. Fossilization Fossilization is the phenomenon that the development of a second language seems to stop at some level. 2  It is extremely rare for the learner of an L2 to achieve full native-like competence. 