The lining paper should be hung horizontally (across the wall) if you are going to hang a top covering, as this stops the edges of the lining paper and the wallcovering falling in the same place and protruding. It also reduces the risk of the final covering upseating the first.
To achieve a good wall surface on which to hang the lining paper, fill all knock marks, holes and cracks using a filler knife and flexible filler, remove any loose plaster and re-plaster if necessary (read the wall plaster repair for detailed instructions).
This is where a lot of customers would opt for lining paper to be put on the walls. Lining paper comes in different thickness’s. A thick lining paper put on a wall well by a professional, any bumps or cracks underneath would not be noticeable. Once painted, you wouldn’t know that there was paper on the walls. This is the cheaper, faster alternative to having your walls mended, made good and skimmed.
Daddy, There is no need to apply lining paper to new plasterboard. If you have used Gyproc standard board then you should have fixed it with the ivory side outwards. This board is finished in this way in readiness for direct decoration. The darker coloured side of the board is for skimming.
To achieve a good wall surface on which to hang the lining paper, fill all knock marks, holes and cracks using a filler knife and flexible filler, remove any loose plaster and re-plaster if necessary (this post explains how to do it if you’re not sure: how to repair cracked or damaged plaster on internal walls).
I certainly can matter. If you use featheredge board (many builders merchants only stock this) and you put it up the wrong way round then you will have endless probs with nail pops. There is also a paper join on the back of the board that is not designed to have wet plaster spread all over it.
If the lining paper is so too bad you may have to remove it with a steam stripper and put up some new paper. Steam strippers are very inexpensive these days and can save you loads of time. The steam softens up the old paper ready for you to scrape off with a scraper.