The name of the note played is the fundamental frequency or the first harmonic, the second harmonic is twice the fundamental frequency, the third harmonic is thrice the fundamental frequency, and so on. This series is called the harmonic series. Harmonic. In acoustics and telecommunication, the harmonic of a wave is a component frequency of the signal that is an integral multiple of the fundamental frequency. For a sine wave, it is an integral multiple of the frequency of the wave. For example, if the frequency is f, the harmonics have frequency 2f, 3f, 4f, etc
Fundamental and Harmonics. The lowest resonant frequency of a vibrating object is called its fundamental frequency. Most vibrating objects have more than one resonant frequency and those used in musical instruments typically vibrate at harmonics of the fundamental. A harmonic is defined as an integer (whole number) multiple of the fundamental frequency. Vibrating strings, open cylindrical air columns, and conical air columns will vibrate at all harmonics of the fundamental. Cylinders with one end closed will vibrate with only odd harmonics of the fundamental. 
The term overtone is used to refer to any resonant frequency above the fundamental frequency-an overtone may or may not be a harmonic. Many of the instruments of the orchestra, those utilizing strings or air columns, produce the fundamental frequency and harmonics. 
We define harmonics as voltages or currents at frequencies that are a multiple of the fundamental frequency. In most systems, the fundamental frequency is 60 Hz. Therefore, harmonic order is 120 Hz, 180 Hz, 240 Hz and so on. (For European countries with 50 Hz systems, the harmonic order is 100 Hz, 150 Hz, 200 Hz, etc.). We usually specify these orders by their harmonic number or multiple of the fundamental frequency. For example, a harmonic with a frequency of 180 Hz is known as the third harmonic (60x3 = 180). In this case, for every cycle of the fundamental waveform, there are three complete cycles of the harmonic waveforms.
Answer by JazzHarper. Confidence votes 8.8K. The fundamental is the lowest frequency; the harmonics are all multiples of that frequency. For example, if you play a concert A (440Hz) on a trumpet, the harmonics of that tone would be at 880, 1320, 1760, 2200, 2640, 3080, 3520, 3960, 4400Hz, and so on. The first harmonic, is the fundamental frequency, or 550 Hz. The second harmonic would be twice that, or 1100 Hz. The third would be twice that, or 1650 Hz and so on...
The harmonics are multiples of the fundamental frequency. So if the fundamental frequency is 100 Hz, the harmonics will be 200 Hz, 300 Hz, 400 Hz, 500 Hz, and so on. If the fundamental frequency were 220 Hz, the harmonics would be 440 Hz, 660 Hz, 880 Hz, and so on.
In counting − harmonics are not overtones. There are integer multiples of a certain frequency (fundamental), that are called harmonics, partial tones (partials) or overtones. It is important to note that the term 'overtones' does not include the fundamental frequency. The first overtone is therefore already the second harmonic or the second partial. 
A harmonic is any of the integer multiplications of the fundamental frequency. The fundamental frequency (f) is known as the first harmonic, and 2f is known as the second harmonic, and so on. A highly useful application of harmonics is the Fourier analysis. 
A harmonic of a wave is a component frequency of the signal that is an integer multiple of the fundamental frequency, i.e. if the fundamental frequency is f, the harmonics have frequencies 2 f, 3 f, 4 f, . . . etc. The harmonics have the property that they are all periodic at the fundamental frequency, therefore the sum of harmonics is also periodic at that frequency. As multiples of the fundamental frequency, successive harmonics can be found by repeatedly adding the fundamental