Diffen › Science › Biology. Aerobic respiration, a process that uses oxygen, and anaerobic respiration, a process that doesn't use oxygen, are two forms of cellular respiration. Although some cells may engage in just one type of respiration, most cells use both types, depending on an organism's needs.
Cellular Respiration. The term cellular respiration refers to the biochemical pathway by which cells release energy from the chemical bonds of food molecules and provide that energy for the essential processes of life. All living cells must carry out cellular r
Aerobic respiration, or cell respiration in the presence of oxygen, uses the end product of glycolysis (pyruvate) in the TCA cycle to produce much more energy currency in the form of ATP than can be obtained from any anaerobic pathway.
Aerobic respiration produces 36 ATP molecules, uses oxygen, and the end products ar carbon dioxide and water. ATP production in aerobic respiration takes place across a membrane. This is done in the mitochondria of eukaryotes; it's done between the cell membrane and cell wall in prokaryotes.
Some prokaryotic organisms survive solely through anaerobic respiration pathways, never using oxygen to produce ATP. Other prokaryotes are facultative anaerobes, organisms that switch between aerobic and anaerobic pathways in response to available oxygen and food molecule concentrations.
Aerobic respiration, a process that uses oxygen, and anaerobic respiration, a process that doesn't use oxygen, are two forms of cellular respiration. Although some cells may engage in just one type of respiration, most cells use both types, depending on an organism's needs.
It can be aerobic respiration in the presence of oxygen or anaerobic respiration. Prokaryotic cells carry out cellular respiration within the cytoplasm or on the inner surfaces of the cells. More emphasis here will be placed on eukaryotic cells where the mitochondria are the site of most of the reactions.
Cellular respiration is the process that cells use to break down food to use as an energy. Aerobic cellular respiration uses oxygen and yields many more ATP molecules than anaerobic cellular respiration, which does not use oxygen and yields only two ATP molecules.