Beta-carotene Overdose. Beta-carotene overdose is mostly caused due to excessive administration of carotene in the form of supplements or food. Common symptoms of this condition include allergies, change of skin color, medication interaction, and higher risk of cancer and cardiovascular diseases.
Beta-carotene is one of the orange dyes found in most green leaves, and in carrots. When leaves lose their chlorophyll in the fall, carotene is one of the colors left over in the leaf. Beta-carotene is a member of a family of molecules known as the carotenoids. These have a basic structure made up of isoprene units.
1 Hypervitaminosis A: According to PubMed Health, high doses of beta carotene supplements may lead to too much vitamin A in the body. 2  This can cause serious and potentially dangerous side effects including visual disturbances, bone pain, dizziness, drowsiness, liver damage, skin problems, headache, nausea and vomiting.
Beta-carotene is the pigment that gives carrots, sweet potatoes, and other yellow vegetables their characteristic coloring. Beta-carotene is used in foods to provide color (margarine would look as white as shortening without it).
Carotenodermia is one more type of beta carotene toxicity. This condition mostly features with skin changes. It develops as a consequence of increased intake of beta carotene supplements. The symptoms include yellowish or pale palms and soles.
Beta carotene is a powerful antioxidant that is converted to vitamin A in the body. While it offers many health benefits, too much beta carotene is not a good thing and may cause serious health problems.
Toxicity is the result of over-intake of beta carotene, especially the supplements. Its symptoms include nausea, vomiting, blurring of vision, loss of senses, etc. These symptoms occur pretty instantly after you consume large doses of beta carotene supplements. You must immediately see a doctor during such an occasion.
Beta-carotene is one of a group of red, orange, and yellow pigments called carotenoids. Beta-carotene and other carotenoids provide approximately 50% of the vitamin A needed in the American diet. Beta-carotene can be found in fruits, vegetables, and whole grains. It can also be made in a laboratory.
Beta-carotene is a pigment found in plants that gives them their color. The name beta-carotene is derived from the Latin name for carrot. It gives yellow and orange fruits and vegetables their rich hues. Beta-carotene is also used to color foods such as margarine.