• Instability. • An inability to straighten the knee. • Pain in the back of the knee with deep squatting. Because the posterior horn of the medial meniscus absorbs most of the weight of the medial compartment, it is also by far the most frequent area that a meniscus tear occurs in.
In sports and orthopedics, a tear of a meniscus is a rupturing of one or more of the fibrocartilage strips in the knee called menisci. When doctors and patients refer to torn cartilage in the knee, they actually may be referring to an injury to a meniscus at the top of one of the tibiae. 
People can suffer tears of the meniscus because of trauma, sports injuries or the meniscus can tear simply because it wore out. By far, the most common location for a tear is in the back, and on the inner or medial side of the knee — that is the area we call the posterior horn of the medial meniscus. The meniscus is a “c”-shaped cartilage disk that’s found in the knee. We have two menisci in either knee. We have the medial meniscus on the inner side of the knee and the lateral meniscus on the outer side of the knee. The menisci serve a critical function in the knee as a shock absorber or cushion.
Longitudinal Tear of the Posterior Horn Medial Meniscus. The posterior horn of the medial meniscus is that portion of the medial meniscus in the back part of the knee. It varies from the main weightbearing portion of the meniscus up to where it attaches on the tibia at its lateral aspect, called the root attachment. Because the posterior horn of the medial meniscus absorbs most of the weight of the medial compartment, it is also by far the most frequent area that a meniscus tear occurs in.
1 When treating a Posterior Horn of your lateral or medial meniscus tear or any soft tissue injury, an effective therapy will increase blood flow to the injury while your knee is immobile. 2  This increase in blood flow will accelerate the body's own ability to heal itself. You might be suffering from a torn posterior horn of the meniscus if: 1  You are suffering from limited movement and unable to stretch out your knee. 2  You have pain and swelling to your knee. 3  You have tightness and tenderness around
Meniscus tears are a very common cause of knee pain. Tears of the meniscus can vary by location, type, size and the amount of pain they produce. The most common location for a meniscus tear in the knee is the posterior horn of the medial meniscus. The meniscus is a “c”-shaped cartilage disk that’s found in the knee. We have two menisci in either knee. We have the medial meniscus on the inner side of the knee and the lateral meniscus on the outer side of the knee. The menisci serve a critical function in the knee as a shock absorber or cushion.
1 Removing the entire medial meniscus can lead to a bow-legged deformity and medial joint arthritis. 2  Removing the entire lateral meniscus can cause a knock-kneed deformity and lateral joint arthritis. 3  Location-A tear may be located in the anterior horn, body, or posterior horn. 4  A posterior horn tear is the most common. The medial meniscus and lateral meniscus are specialized structures within the knee. These crescent-shaped shock absorbers between the tibia and femur have an important role in the function and health of the knee.
Radial tear posterior horn medial meniscus A radial tear of the posterior horn of the medial meniscus; Traumatic events in young active people suffer from the injury to the posterior horn, along with a tear to the ACL. A vertical tear at the junction of the posterior and middle thirds of the meniscus has been damaged. You might be suffering from a torn posterior horn of the meniscus if: 1  You are suffering from limited movement and unable to stretch out your knee. 2  You have pain and swelling to your knee. 3  You have tightness and tenderness around