Answer: The average cost to resurface a tennis court usually ranges from $4000 to $8000, depending on a variety of factors. Prior to resurfacing a tennis court, a tennis court contractor will perform a site visit and look for problems or issues that may need to be addressed prior to or during the resurfacing process. If an existing tennis court has not been cleaned, properly maintained, or resurfaced on a regular basis, the cost to resurface will likely be higher. If this is the case, additional cleaning like mold, moss, and fungus removal may have to be performed.
Tennis Court Resurfacing. A problem with typical asphalt tennis courts is that the surface can become inflexible or brittle due to extreme changes in temperature or inclement weather conditions. Plus, the suspended court tile system hides existing surface imperfections and cracks. With a 15-year limited warranty and 25-30 year life expectancy, a VersaCourt surface is truly a great options for resurfacing tennis courts.
Many asphalt courts develop low spots, birdbaths, or areas that hold water and do not drain properly. Birdbath patching takes extra time, expertise, and acrylic patching materials. This can definitely add to the cost of repairing and resurfacing a tennis court. If an existing tennis court has not been cleaned, properly maintained, or resurfaced on a regular basis, the cost to resurface will likely be higher. If this is the case, additional cleaning like mold, moss, and fungus removal may have to be performed.
Since tennis court coatings are applied with a soft rubber squeegee, the colored surface coatings tend to “wipe off” when the surface is old, smooth and polished. This results in thinner surface layers that won’t last as long, and definitely impacts how often the tennis court should be resurfaced. 1 This is cause faster wear of the tennis court surfaces. 2  Trim edges – Be sure to keep grass, vegetation, and dirt trimmed down around the court edges. 3  This will help to prevent back-up of water that drains off of the court.
Q: What is the difference between the terms resurfacing and recoating? A: These two terms are used interchangeably in the industry to mean a minimum of two coats of latex-acrylic paint applied to your existing tennis court or basketball court. The terms do not involve re-paving your court. 
Here are just some of the common construction problems influencing the decision of how often tennis courts should be resurfaced 1  : Improper slope = ponding water and premature breakdown of acrylic surfacing system. 2  Insufficient compaction = susceptible to deforming, moisture damage, cracking, etc. 1 This is cause faster wear of the tennis court surfaces. 2  Trim edges – Be sure to keep grass, vegetation, and dirt trimmed down around the court edges. 3  This will help to prevent back-up of water that drains off of the court.
Tennis courts should be resurfaced every 4 to 8 years. This is a standard range with quite a few variables, as you could imagine. Lets go over some reasons why the same resurfacing process would last 4 years on one court and 8, or double the amount of time, on another. 1 This is cause faster wear of the tennis court surfaces. 2  Trim edges – Be sure to keep grass, vegetation, and dirt trimmed down around the court edges. 3  This will help to prevent back-up of water that drains off of the court.
Local Tennis Court Resurfacing is a resource for learning about the processes of repairing and resurfacing tennis courts and other sport surfaces. We are here to provide helpful information and industry resources for end-users, facility managers, architects, and sport surfacing professionals. Tennis court resurfacing, also known as “painting a tennis court “, should also be explained by a qualified tennis court builder or contractor. Many contractors and court owners only focus on the cost without knowing the scope of work to be performed
Then, just grab your racquet and a can of balls. It will cost between $35,000 and $40,000 to resurface an existing full-size — 60 by 120 feet — tennis court with Flex Court tiles. The cost includes a new net and extra, adjustable lines to upgrade to a full multi-sport court. That means your tennis court can become a court for basketball, volleyball and badminton. Yes, that’s more than the $10,000 to $13,000 it would cost to resurface your court with an acrylic surface.