Lindley is known for his work as a session musician. He has contributed to recordings and live performances by Jackson Browne, Warren Zevon, Linda Ronstadt, Curtis Mayfield, James Taylor, David Crosby, Graham Nash, Terry Reid, Dolly Parton, Bob Dylan, Rod Stewart and Joe Walsh. Artist Ben Harper has credited Lindley's distinctive slide guitar style as a major influence on his own playing and in 2006 Lindley sat in on Harper's album Both Sides of the Gun. He is known in the guitar community for his use of cheap instruments sold at Sears department stores and intended for amateurs.
Upon his return to the States in 1971, Lindley teamed up with songwriter Jackson Browne, beginning a nine-year association. When David plays, it really means a lot to me--just pure meaning, Browne told Guitar Player. It always has, from the first time he ever played music on one of my songs. He may not look it, but David Lindley is the picture of good taste, stated Dan Forte in Guitar Player. He doesn't play what's expected; he plays what's needed. His playing has graced countless albums, going way beyond the standard cliches of rock guitar and entering a category of its own.
Lindley had played on Trio with Dolly Parton, Emmylou Harris, and Linda Ronstadt when the latter heard about his problem. Ronstadt secured Lindley a deal with Elektra in exchange for the opportunity to produce his LP, Very Greasy. He may not look it, but David Lindley is the picture of good taste, stated Dan Forte in Guitar Player. He doesn't play what's expected; he plays what's needed. His playing has graced countless albums, going way beyond the standard cliches of rock guitar and entering a category of its own.
Lindley joined Jackson Browne for a tour of Spain in 2006.  Love Is Strange: En Vivo Con Tino , a 2-CD set of recordings from that tour, was released May 11, 2010, with Browne and Lindley touring together starting in June of that year. The duo also won an Independent Music Award for Best Live Performance Album. Artist Ben Harper has credited Lindley's distinctive slide guitar style as a major influence on his own playing and in 2006 Lindley sat in on Harper's album Both Sides of the Gun. He is known in the guitar community for his use of cheap instruments sold at Sears department stores and intended for amateurs.
In 1981, Lindley formed his own band, El Rayo-X. Jackson Browne produced their first album. Their last show before breaking up was December 31, 1989. Since that time, he has toured as a solo artist, and as half of a duo, first with Hani Nasser, then with Wally Ingram. Artist Ben Harper has credited Lindley's distinctive slide guitar style as a major influence on his own playing and in 2006 Lindley sat in on Harper's album Both Sides of the Gun. He is known in the guitar community for his use of cheap instruments sold at Sears department stores and intended for amateurs.
Email Print. David Perry Lindley is an American musician who is notable for his work with Jackson Browne, Warren Zevon, and other rock musicians. He has worked extensively in other genres as well, performing with artists as varied as Curtis Mayfield and Dolly Parton. Lindley joined Jackson Browne for a tour of Spain in 2006. Love is Strange, a 2-CD set of recordings from that tour, was released May 11, 2010, with Browne and Lindley touring together starting in June.
Lindley has performed as a member of the pioneering eclectic 60s band Kaleidoscope, served as bandleader of his own band El Rayo-X, and has been hired to serve in that capacity for other artists on tour. Artist Ben Harper has credited Lindley's distinctive slide guitar style as a major influence on his own playing and in 2006 Lindley sat in on Harper's album Both Sides of the Gun. He is known in the guitar community for his use of cheap instruments sold at Sears department stores and intended for amateurs.
When he was on break from his duties with Browne, others began to call on Lindley for their own sessions. Artists like Leonard Cohen, Linda Ronstadt, Warren Zevon, and John Hiatt are just a few who have relied on Lindley's sound to transform their songs into something special. He may not look it, but David Lindley is the picture of good taste, stated Dan Forte in Guitar Player. He doesn't play what's expected; he plays what's needed. His playing has graced countless albums, going way beyond the standard cliches of rock guitar and entering a category of its own.