Fats contain long hydrocarbon chains, which can either be unsaturated, i.e. have double bonds, or saturated, i.e. have no double bonds. In nature, unsaturated fatty acids generally have cis as opposed to trans configurations. Only unsaturated fats can be trans or cis fat, since only a double bond can be locked to these orientations. Saturated fatty acids are never called trans fats because they have no double bonds. Therefore, all their bonds are freely rotatable.
Trans fats, or trans-unsaturated fatty acids, trans fatty acids, are a type of unsaturated fats that are uncommon in nature but became commonly produced industrially from vegetable fats for use in margarine, snack food, packaged baked goods and frying fast food starting in the 1950s. Only unsaturated fats can be trans or cis fat, since only a double bond can be locked to these orientations. Saturated fatty acids are never called trans fats because they have no double bonds. Therefore, all their bonds are freely rotatable.
Trans fatty acids (TFAs), occur both naturally in foods and can be formed or added to foods during manufacture. Naturally occurring TFAs are found in some animal products including butter, cheese and meat. 
The manufactured form of trans fat, known as partially hydrogenated oil, is found in a variety of food products, including: 1  Baked goods. 2  Most cakes, cookies, pie crusts and crackers contain shortening, which is usually made from partially hydrogenated vegetable oil. Trans fat is double trouble for your heart health. Trans fat raises your LDL (bad) cholesterol and lowers your HDL (good) (HDL) cholesterol. Find out more about trans fat and how to avoid it. Trans fat is considered by many doctors to be the worst type of fat you can eat. Unlike other dietary fats, trans fat — also called trans-fatty acids — both raises your LDL (bad) cholesterol and lowers your HDL (good) cholesterol. A high LDL cholesterol level in combination with a low HDL cholesterol level increases your risk of heart disease, the leading killer of men and women
In other countries, there are legal limits to trans fat content. Trans fats levels can be reduced or eliminated using saturated fats such as lard, palm oil or fully hydrogenated fats, or by using interesterified fat. Only unsaturated fats can be trans or cis fat, since only a double bond can be locked to these orientations. Saturated fatty acids are never called trans fats because they have no double bonds. Therefore, all their bonds are freely rotatable.
Cis fats have hydrogen atoms bound on the same side of the carbon in the fatty acids, which gives the chains a bend, and causes the fat to be liquid at room temperature. In a trans fat, the hydrogen atoms are bound on opposite sides of the carbon in the fatty acids, giving the acids a straight structure. If food manufacturers get their way, some products may still contain artificial trans fats; they're fighting to keep trans fats in a handful of products. But regardless, the ban stands to do more good than harm.
There are two sources of trans fat, also known as trans fatty acids: 1  Trans fat formed naturally – this type of trans fat is produced in the gut of some grazing animals. 2  That’s why small quantities of trans fat can be found in animal products like meat, milk, and milk products. Trans fat can be found in many of the same foods as saturated fat. These can include: 1  Coffee creamer. 2  Crackers, cookies, cakes, frozen pies, and other baked goods. 3  Fast food. 4  Frozen pizza. 5  Ready-to-use frostings. 6  Refrigerated dough products (such as biscuits and cinnamon rolls).
High intake of trans fatty acids can lead to many health problems throughout one's life. Trans fat is abundant in fast food restaurants. It is consumed in greater quantities by people who do not have access to a diet consisting of fewer hydrogenated fats, or who often consume fast food. Only unsaturated fats can be trans or cis fat, since only a double bond can be locked to these orientations. Saturated fatty acids are never called trans fats because they have no double bonds. Therefore, all their bonds are freely rotatable.