Fish and Chips. There are claims to the first ‘chippie’ (fish and chip shop) from Lancashire in the North and London in the South of England. Whoever it may have been, the trade grew to feed a rapidly expanding population, reaching a staggering 35,000 shops in the 1930’s, leveling to around 11,000 now.
The CalorieKing.com.au Food Database holds the nutritional information for over 19,000 Australian generic and brand name foods (including fast-foods). There is a wide range of information available including calories, fat, fibre, protein and much, much more! 1  Click here for great photo guides to understanding portions. 2  Click here to get this database and diet diary on your PC or Handheld.
A lot of oil is used in Chinese cooking and many dishes are deep-fried. But surprisingly, it's not main dishes like beef in oyster sauce, chicken chop suey and prawns in black bean sauce that you need to worry about-they contain a respectable 350 to 450 calories and 10 to 15g of fat per portion. Department of Health guidelines say that women should have no more than 2,000 calories and 70g of fat a day, and men no more than 2,500 calories and 95g fat in total. Here's how more savvy ordering can help you halve the fat and calorie content of your favourites.
Choose cod or haddock rather than plaice or rock as they're lower in calories and fat-a small battered haddock is 280 calories; cod, 295 calories; plaice, 385 calories; and rock, 445. Before eating, empty your fish and chips on to kitchen paper and dab to remove excess grease. Department of Health guidelines say that women should have no more than 2,000 calories and 70g of fat a day, and men no more than 2,500 calories and 95g fat in total. Here's how more savvy ordering can help you halve the fat and calorie content of your favourites.
Fish chips. Britains most traditional and the most popular takeaway, fish and chips can be lower in calories than many other types of takeaways. That doesnt make them good for you however. The fish may be a source of protein but the fact its dipped in batter makes the fat content rather high. 
But it's important to know how many calories in takeaways there are, especially if you're watching your weight. When counting calories, we believe that no foods are banned-even takeaways! So no matter what you go for, read our list of calories in takeaways to make a more informed decision. 
Fish and Chips are a great British tradition, and here you can find how many calories are in them. The high number of calories in fish and chips are due to frying most of the foods in oil, so watch out for the high fat content as well! See our list of common items and the number of calories in fish and chips below. 
Overall Summary. Fish and chips are less than 10% fat if properly cooked and an average sized portion is less than 1000 calories. Adding peas to the meal lowers fat and calories per 100 grams, but as peas contain approximately 100 calories per 100 grams, this increases the total calories consumed in the meal. 
By Angela Dowden. Top 5 healthy takeaways []. Here are the TOP 5 HEALTHY TAKEAWAYS options you can tuck in to, without feeling guilty... When we do our weekly shop we are bombarded with information on the packaging which tells us exactly how much fat, salt and sugar and how many calories each item contains. However, when we eat out, it’s not so obvious
1 Calories In Fish 'n Chips. 2  309 calories, 3g fat, 50g carbs, 27g protein, 9g fiber. 3  Calories In Fish and Chips with Tartar Sauce. 4  404 calories, 8g fat, 30g carbs, 50g protein, 2g fiber. 