The fee for a plain copy is $5, and the fee for a certified copy is $10. Copies of documents cannot be ordered through this website, by email or over the telephone. The Department of State does not provide copies of filing receipts. 
A copy of a document on file with the state (such as Articles of Incorporation/Organization) that is certified by the state as being a true and correct copy. Most states attach a cover page bearing the state seal or the signature of the Secretary of State to a copy of the articles or certificate of formation. 
Certain documents, such as birth, marriage and death certificates, can only be certified as true by the institutions that are custodians of these public records. In such cases, you must request a certified copy directly from the agency that issued or holds the original documents. The term true and certified copy is a legal term that describes a photocopy of a document that has been confirmed as a true reproduction of the original. How you go about obtaining a certified copy varies depending on state law, the type of document, and the purpose for which you need it authenticated
A certified copy is a copy (often a photocopy) of a primary document, that has on it an endorsement or certificate that it is a true copy of the primary document. It does not certify that the primary document is genuine, only that it is a true copy of the primary document. A certified copy is often used in English-speaking common law countries as a convenient way of providing a copy of documents. It is usually inexpensive to obtain. A certified copy may be required for official government or court purposes and for commercial purposes. It avoids the owner of important documents (especially identity documents) giving up possession of those documents which might mean a risk of their loss or damage.
Personal Documents Notaries may make attested copies of most any personal document if they are presented with the original document, and if the original document is not a public or vital record. Copying of Notarial Records In some states, copy attestation is limited to the notary's recordbook or journal entries. Notaries are frequently asked to make a certified or attested copy of an original document. Not all states, however, authorize notaries to perform this act. Not all documents are eligible for copy certification/attestation by a notary.
1 Plain Copies are photocopies of any document in the file. 2  Certified Copies are photocopies of a filed document in its entirety (everything within a staple) that is sworn to be a true copy by a court clerk. 3  The certified copy should not be taken apart. 1 Documents that are to be used as exhibits are usually certified individually. 2  Exemplified Copy, also called a 3-Way Certificate, is a photocopy of a pleading in its entirety with it's authenticity sworn to by the Court Administrator.
Another method for certifying a document as a true copy of the original is to allow the provider of the copy to make a sworn statement that the document is an exact copy. This is also known as a copy certification by a document custodian. The term true and certified copy is a legal term that describes a photocopy of a document that has been confirmed as a true reproduction of the original. How you go about obtaining a certified copy varies depending on state law, the type of document, and the purpose for which you need it authenticated
To obtain certified copies of a civil file or document the court must provide a copy for certification (i.e. you cannot bring in a copy from home). For cases and documents filed after November 13, 2007, all public documents may be viewed via the public access site. 
What if your authorized notarial duties do not include making certified or attested copies of documents&#63 As an alternative, the document custodian may wish to swear/affirm that a copy he made of an original document is a true copy. Notaries are frequently asked to make a certified or attested copy of an original document. Not all states, however, authorize notaries to perform this act. Not all documents are eligible for copy certification/attestation by a notary.