Trazodone dosage for insomnia. When used as hypnotic, the usual starting dose is 25-50 mg of Trazodone at bedtime. If needed, the dose can be increased up to 100 mg. But it is rarely necessary to increase the maximum dose. The sleep promoting effect starts within 1-2 hours and usually lasts about 8 hours. Important notes: 1  Take trazodone with food.
For example, the drowsiness effect of trazodone can be helpful for people who have insomnia. Trazodone is especially useful as a sleep aid in people with depression, since it is effective for both insomnia and depression. Conversely, some antidepressants are likely to cause insomnia, even when taken in the morning. Trazodone can be used to treat insomnia caused by other antidepressant medications. Trazodone is a sedating antidepressant, which means that it is likely to cause drowsiness. In fact, drowsiness is one of the most common trazodone side effects. In clinical studies, up to 40.8 percent of people reported drowsiness as a side effect.
All of the low-dose sedating antidepressants have half-lives greater than the usual sleep period. Even trazodone, the shortest-acting of these drugs and the least sedating, at a dose of 50 mg is associated with reports of daytime somnolence in 23% of patients compared with 8% for placebo. The prevalence of daytime somnolence is higher at higher doses, in elderly patients, and for tricyclic antidepressants.
Dose of Trazodone for Depression. The recommended starting trazodone dosage when treating depression is 150 mg per day (divided into two or three doses per day). Your healthcare provider may choose to increase the dose if symptoms continue, or decrease the dose if trazodone side effects occur. The maximum recommended dose of trazodone is 400 mg per day, although people who have been hospitalized due to depression may take up to 600 mg per day.
Trazodone Dosage for Insomnia. Even though trazodone is not approved to treat insomnia, it is frequently prescribed in an  off-label  fashion for this use. Usually, the dose of trazodone for insomnia is lower, starting with 25 mg or 50 mg at bedtime. The maximum recommended dose of trazodone is 400 mg per day, although people who have been hospitalized due to depression may take up to 600 mg per day.
A: Trazodone is an antidepressant medication that affects chemicals in the brain that may become unbalanced and cause depression. It is primarily used to treat depression. However, medications are often prescribed for uses that are not specifically listed in the prescribing information or patient leaflets. Trazodone is an antidepressan t drug that's prescribed to treat the symptoms of depression. Trazodone is in a class of medications called serotonin modulators, which work by moderating levels of serotonin (a neurotransmitter) in the brain.
Dosage Edit. Treatment should be started with low initial doses of 25 to 50 mg daily in divided doses or in an evening single dose. The dose may be increased slowly to a maximum of 300 mg daily in ambulatory patients and to 600 mg daily in hospitalized patients. Geriatric and emaciated patients should begin with 25 mg daily; this dose may be slowly increased to 300 mg. The duration of treatment should be at least one month. A 50 mg dose is recommended when using Trazodone as a sleep aid.
Usually, the most important consideration is managing the depression, which should be treated separately with a more effective antidepressant medication, counseling, or both. A separate drug can then be prescribed for the insomnia —either a newer sleep medication or low-dose trazodone. Studies have suggested that trazodone plus another antidepressant can improve sleep in these cases.
Trazodone (Desyrel) is an antidepressant that is used to treat depression. Some of the side effects associated with trazodone are somnolence, headache, dizziness, nausea, vomiting, blurred vision, low blood pressure, joint pain, nasal congestion, and weight changes. Trazodone is an antidepressan t drug that's prescribed to treat the symptoms of depression. Trazodone is in a class of medications called serotonin modulators, which work by moderating levels of serotonin (a neurotransmitter) in the brain.
A: Trazodone (Desyrel) is an antidepressant commonly used to treat depression and sleep disorders. Some of the common side effects associated with trazodone include drowsiness, headache, constipation, and blurred vision. Trazodone is an antidepressan t drug that's prescribed to treat the symptoms of depression. Trazodone is in a class of medications called serotonin modulators, which work by moderating levels of serotonin (a neurotransmitter) in the brain.