In 1794 the German botanist Moench, deciding that the soybean deserved a genus of its own, called it Soja hispida. Yet Linnaeus' term Dolichos soja was generally the preferred one in Europe and America until the early 1870s, when Moench's Soja hispida became the favorite. HISTORY OF SOYBEAN TAXONOMY AND SCIENTIFIC NAMES. The soybean is a legume; like all other peas and beans, lentils and peanuts, it belongs to the large botanical family Leguminosae (which includes some 500 genera and more than 12,000 species), in the subfamily Papilionideae.
Species-Glycine max. Soybeans, Glycine max, belong to the domain Eukarya because it has a true nucleus with membrane-bound organelles. It is included in the kingdom Plantae because it contains the characteristic traits of undergoing photosynthesis, having cellulose, and being multicellular. The phylum it belongs to is Magnoliophyta. Members of this phylum are also known as flowering plants, or Angiosperms. Magnoliopsida is the class soybeans belong to. Members of this class are most commonly known as dicotyledons, or dicots. A cotyledon is the embryo within the seed of the plant.
Soybeans fall under the genus Glycine because it belong s to the bean family. Finally, Glycine max is the species, or scientific name, of this organism. It is different from all other species in the Glycine genus because is the only erect plant. A ll other species in this genus either twine or climb. Members of this phylum are also known as flowering plants, or Angiosperms. Magnoliopsida is the class soybeans belong to. Members of this class are most commonly known as dicotyledons, or dicots. A cotyledon is the embryo within the seed of the plant.
Glycine max, soja, soja bean, soya, soybean plant, soybean, soy. soya, soya bean, soybean, soy-the most highly proteinaceous vegetable known; the fruit of the soybean plant is used in a variety of foods and as fodder (especially as a replacement for animal protein). legume, leguminous plant-an erect or climbing bean or pea plant of the family Leguminosae. soya bean-the most highly proteinaceous vegetable known; the fruit of the soybean plant is used in a variety of foods and as fodder (especially as a replacement for animal protein). soya
Their hybrids have high fertility. Technically these two plants could be considered to be of the same species. In the genus Glycine, the cultivated soybean, G. max, is the only erect plant; all the others twine or climb and all but G. soja are perennials. HISTORY OF SOYBEAN TAXONOMY AND SCIENTIFIC NAMES. The soybean is a legume; like all other peas and beans, lentils and peanuts, it belongs to the large botanical family Leguminosae (which includes some 500 genera and more than 12,000 species), in the subfamily Papilionideae.
The genus Glycine Willd. is divided into two subgenera (species), Glycine and Soja. The subgenus Soja(Moench) includes the cultivated soybean, G. max (L.) Merrill, and the wild soybean, G. soja Sieb.& Zucc. Both species are annual. Common forms of soy (or soya) include soy meal, soy flour, soy milk, tofu, textured vegetable protein (TVP, which is made into a wide variety of vegetarian foods, some of them intended to imitate meat), tempeh, soy lecithin and soybean oil.
The soybean in the US, also called the soya bean in Europe (Glycine max) is a species of legume native to East Asia, widely grown for its edible bean which has numerous uses. The plant is classed as an oilseed rather than a pulse by the UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). Common forms of soy (or soya) include soy meal, soy flour, soy milk, tofu, textured vegetable protein (TVP, which is made into a wide variety of vegetarian foods, some of them intended to imitate meat), tempeh, soy lecithin and soybean oil.
Traditional nonfermented food uses of soybeans include soy milk, and from the latter tofu and tofu skin. Fermented foods include soy sauce, fermented bean paste, natto, and tempeh, among others. The oil is used in many industrial applications. Common forms of soy (or soya) include soy meal, soy flour, soy milk, tofu, textured vegetable protein (TVP, which is made into a wide variety of vegetarian foods, some of them intended to imitate meat), tempeh, soy lecithin and soybean oil.
The soybean (U.S.) or soya bean (UK) (Glycine max) is a species of legume native to East Asia. It is an annual plant that may vary in growth, habit, and height. It may grow prostrate, not growing higher than 20 cm (7.8 inches), or even up to 2 meters (6.5 feet) in height. Common forms of soy (or soya) include soy meal, soy flour, soy milk, tofu, textured vegetable protein (TVP, which is made into a wide variety of vegetarian foods, some of them intended to imitate meat), tempeh, soy lecithin and soybean oil.
The genus Glycine Willd. is divided into two subgenera, Glycine and Soja. The subgenus Soja (Moench) F.J. Herm. includes the cultivated soybean, Glycine max (L.) Merr., and the wild soybean, Glycine soja Sieb. & Zucc. Common forms of soy (or soya) include soy meal, soy flour, soy milk, tofu, textured vegetable protein (TVP, which is made into a wide variety of vegetarian foods, some of them intended to imitate meat), tempeh, soy lecithin and soybean oil.