A site selling Ramie fabric talks about “100% Ramie Linen Fabric-Ramie is a fiber similar to linen. In fact, it is almost impossible to tell the difference between this fabric and the most expensive linen”. 
Ramie fiber. Ramie fiber is one of the premium vegetable fibers. The ultimate fibers are exceptionally long and are claimed to be the longest of vegetable origin, with one report claiming the fibers range up to 580 mm, averaging about 125 mm. Ramie fiber is very durable, is pure white in colour and has a silky luster. It is reported to have a tensile strength eight times that of cotton and seven times greater than silk. However, other reports claim that the tensile strengths of cotton, flax, hemp and ramie are similar. Ramie (Boehmeria nivea. The true ramie or China Grass' is also known as white ramie' and is the Chinese cultivated plant. It has large heart shaped, crenate leaves covered on the underside with white hairs that give it a silvery appearance. Boehmeria nivea var. tenacissima, is known as green ramie' or rhea'.
Ramie is most often blended (common is 55% ramie/45% cotton) with other fibers for its unique strength and absorbency, luster and dye-affinity. When blended with high-quality cotton it offers increased luster, strength and color. Ramie (Boehmeria nivea. The true ramie or China Grass' is also known as white ramie' and is the Chinese cultivated plant. It has large heart shaped, crenate leaves covered on the underside with white hairs that give it a silvery appearance. Boehmeria nivea var. tenacissima, is known as green ramie' or rhea'.
Ramie is also known as China grass, grass linen, rhea and grasscloth. Ramie fibers are one of the oldest natural vegetable fibers, used for thousands of years for fabric and clothing, including ancient Egyptian mummy wraps and shrouds. Fiber Benefits. Fiber Benefits. In order to produce fabrics with various improved characteristics, ramie is often blended with other fibers, such as cotton. By doing so, creation of fabrics from fine linens to coarse canvas gives ramie fibers almost unlimited potential. By blending with wool, the fabric is lighter and shrinking is minimized.
Ramie fibre is white and lustrous and looks like silk, but it lacks stretch and elasticity. Extremely absorbent, much more than cotton, ramie fabric breathes well and makes comfortable clothing for warm and humid summers. Ramie is one of the strongest natural fibres and it is strong even when wet. Like linen, it will break if folded repeatedly in the same place, so avoid pressing sharp creases or folding ramie fabric. Ramie fabric does not shrink and it is resistant to bacteria and mildew, which means it does not rot easily. c) Uses for Ramie fibre. Pure ramie can be spun into a fine yarn either dry or wet. You will find it very similar to spinning tussah silk, and when there is static electricity, the fibre clings to your clothes. 
1 It dissolves fabrics made of cellulose fibers, such as cotton, linen, rayon, and ramie, offering a variety of decorative options. 2  Climatex Lifecycle, made by Swiss company Rohner Textil, is fabric made of pesticide free wool and organically grown ramie (a natural linen-like fiber). 
A second type, known as green ramie or rhea, is believed to have originated in the Malay Peninsula. It has smaller leaves which are green on the underside, and it appears to be better suited to tropical conditions. It is a bast fiber, and the part used is the bark (phloem) of the vegetative stalks. Ramie is normally harvested two to three times a year but under good growing conditions can be harvested up to six times per year.
, which is discoloration of skin or other fabrics that contact the dyed ramie at stress points or wet areas. Ramie is sometimes blended with other fibers to create cloth that benefits from the properties of two or more fibers. Common combinations include cotton, polyester and wool. I recently bought a blouse made of ramie in a charity shop. This article was very helpful in explaining what the fabric is. I agree with all that is said – it is cool, comfortable to wear and has the appearance of linen. I like telling people it is my “china grass” blouse.
Ramie is a flowering plant that is native to Asia. It is harvested and processed to yield strong fibers of the same name, which are used in the production of textiles, twine, upholstery, filters, and sacking. Like flax, jute, and hemp, ramie is considered a bast fiber crop, meaning that the usable portion of the plant is found in its connective tissue structures. Post 6. The ramie shirt probably wrinkled because the fibers are so brittle. From all the processing that ramie has to go through, it doesn't seem like a very environmentally friendly fabric. However, growing cotton is very water-intensive and also uses a lot of chemicals to create the fabric.
Ramie is one of the strongest natural fibers. It exhibits even greater strength when wet. Ramie fiber is known especially for its ability to hold shape, reduce wrinkling, and introduce a silky lustre to the fabric appearance. It is not as durable as other fibers, and so is usually used as a blend with other fibers such as cotton or wool. It is a bast fiber, and the part used is the bark (phloem) of the vegetative stalks. Ramie is normally harvested two to three times a year but under good growing conditions can be harvested up to six times per year.