Ascentis HR Pros. Recruiting/Onboarding-We typically hire candidates site unseen and send them overseas to work. Ascentis allows us to capture information on the candidates from the recruiting phase all the way through the onboarding phase of the hiring process. We use ascentis for our HRIS in the HR department across all locations in the US. We use it as a means to keep track of employee information and we also have the system feed to our benefit and payroll systems.
Ascentis solutions are used by more than 1,500 clients in various industries. Our ease of use and excellent customer service have led to a high client retention rate. Read our success stories. 
Ascentis Software. Ascentis delivers a complete human capital management (HCM) suite designed to find, hire and onboard the best candidates. Built-in features include career portals, social sharing, candidate data analysis, onboarding and more. Ascentis Time works with the Ascentis HCM suite. The company serves a customer base of more than 1,500 businesses. The software is built on the Microsoft SQL Server database, and the data center is a secure facility that's SSAE16 Type II audit (formerly known as SAS70 Type II).
Ascentis HR is a web-based human resource system that offers solutions to get the most out of a company's workforce and reduce overall cost. It also happens to be one of the easiest and simplest softare to use in the market. With this tool, a company's payroll team becomes more efficient and delivers faster. Ascentis HR is a web-based human resource system that offers solutions to get the most out of a company's workforce and reduce overall cost. It also happens to be one of the easiest and simplest softare to use. Categories (4/14): 1  Applicant Sourcing. 2  Applicant Tracking.
Ascentis HRIS & Payroll Software Overview. Ascentis delivers a full-featured, highly flexible, web-based human capital management (HCM) suite of product offerings that can manage/track employee data through the entire employment cycle. Its product suite consists of: 1  Ascentis HRIS. 2  Ascentis Payroll. Ascentis software can help your company streamline and automate all of your HR tasks, simplifying data storage, management, and retrieval.
It's free! Ascentis Corporation, backed by Palm Ventures and Catalyst Investors, offers easy-to-use, human capital management HRIS, online payroll, recruiting and timekeeping solutions that support greater business efficiency and accuracy. One point of data entry means employee information is accurate, up-to-date and reportable. Electronic submission of information to insurance carriers eliminates errors and supports a paperless open enrollment process.
HR Office can be downloaded from the Ascentis website. A â you can try the system for the free for the first thirty. DAYS A â if you are unable to download the system due to (internet) connections etc you can contact the company FOR-A. cd rom A â you can try the system for the free for the first thirty. DAYS A â if you are unable to download the system due to (internet) connections etc you can contact the company FOR-A. CD Rom a â the installation process is fairly painless and if any problems are encountered the user guide. offers detailed instructions
With Ascentis HR, human resources (HR) professionals can gain insights into trends with deep analytics within employee metrics. Ascentis Self-Service is an additional module for the Ascentis HCM suite, which automates traditionally time-consuming processes such as open enrollment. Ascentis Time works with the Ascentis HCM suite. The company serves a customer base of more than 1,500 businesses. The software is built on the Microsoft SQL Server database, and the data center is a secure facility that's SSAE16 Type II audit (formerly known as SAS70 Type II).