Android means a few different things — but in the end it's all good! You see the word Android used a lot on the Internet, and it gets used interchangeably for a few different things. I'm not even talking about robots (though some Androids could be running on Android), I'm talking about the mobile platform we all love. You might have dabbled with this type of Android if you have used custom ROMs. Many third-party developers have taken AOSP and built it as-is for popular phones and tablets. It's pretty bare-bones, but does have everything you need to power and use a smartphone.
Introduction: Android is a Linux-based mobile phone operating system developed by Google. Android is unique because Google is actively developing the platform but giving a portion of it away for free to hardware manufacturers and phone carriers who want to use Android on their devices. Google only charges manufacturers if they also install the Google apps portion of the OS. Android powers the Google TV, the Samsung Galaxy Tab, Amazon Kindle, and countless other devices. Parrot even makes a digital photo frame and a car stereo system with Android. Amazon and a few other device makers opted out of the Google apps package, which is why you cannot access Google Play from those devices.
Android is a mobile operating system (OS) currently developed by Google, based on the Linux kernel and designed primarily for touchscreen mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets. Android provides the ability to run applications which change the default launcher and hence the appearance and externally visible behaviour of Android. These appearance changes include a multi-page dock or no dock, and many more changes to fundamental features of the user interface.
Android is the name of the mobile operating system made by American company; Google. It most commonly comes installed on a variety of smartphones and tablets from a host of manufacturers offering users access to Google’s own services like Search, YouTube, Maps, Gmail and more. Any handset maker is free to make an Android phone if they want to. As well as the aforementioned Motorola, HTC, Samsung and Sony, Acer, Alcatel, Asus, Huawei, LG and ZTE have all made Android phones (and tablets) too.
1. Android is the mobile operating system developed by Google. Essentially, Google produces the software that runs almost every other mobile phone besides Apple’s iPhone. There are also some popular Android tablets as well. Android is a Linux-based software system, and similar to Linux, is free and open source software. This means that other companies can use the Android operating system developed by Google and use it in their mobile devices (more on that later). Android is a Mobile Operating System. Android is the mobile operating system developed by Google. Essentially, Google produces the software that runs almost every other mobile phone besides Apple’s iPhone. There are also some popular Android tablets as well.
Variants of Android are also used on notebooks, game consoles, digital cameras, and other electronics. As of 2015, Android has the largest installed base of all operating systems. It is the second most commonly used mobile operating system in the United States, while iOS is the first. Android provides the ability to run applications which change the default launcher and hence the appearance and externally visible behaviour of Android. These appearance changes include a multi-page dock or no dock, and many more changes to fundamental features of the user interface.
Initially developed by Android, Inc., which Google bought in 2005, Android was unveiled in 2007, along with the founding of the Open Handset Alliance – a consortium of hardware, software, and telecommunication companies devoted to advancing open standards for mobile devices. Android provides the ability to run applications which change the default launcher and hence the appearance and externally visible behaviour of Android. These appearance changes include a multi-page dock or no dock, and many more changes to fundamental features of the user interface.
Android is open source, meaning that manufacturers don't have to pay Google to use it, and that they're free to modify it. This means that it's used in a wide range of hardware varying in price from small budget phones to large-screen high-end handsets. At the time of writing, mobile phones run a variant of version 2 of Android, while most new tablets run a variant of version 3. The difference between the 2.x and 3.x versions of Android is mainly in how they use the screen space provided.
Android is an OS created by Google™ for use on mobile devices, such as smartphones and tablets. It’s an OS that’s available on devices made by a variety of manufacturers, giving you more choices of device style and pricing. Also, with the Android OS, you can customize your device in many ways. 