Body odor (or B.O., bromhidrosis, osmidrosis or ozochrotia) is a perceived unpleasant smell our bodies can give off when bacteria that live on the skin break down sweat into acids-some say it is the smell of bacteria growing on the body, but it really is the result of bacteria breaking down protein into certain acids. Each person's unique body odor can be influenced by diet, gender, health, and medication. Two types of acid are commonly present when there is body odor: 1  Propionic acid (propanoic acid) is commonly found in sweat-propionibacteria break amino acids down into propionic acid.
Body odor (BO), also spelled body odour, is present in animals (including humans), and its intensity can be influenced by many factors (behavioral patterns, survival strategies). These smaller molecules smell, and give body odor its characteristic aroma. Propionic acid (propanoic acid) is present in many sweat samples. This acid is a breakdown product of some amino acids by propionibacteria, which thrive in the ducts of adolescent and adult sebaceous glands.
Body Odor. Body odor is simply defined as the unpleasant odor given off by the body. Body odor causes can vary from person to person based on a number of different factors. It is a direct result of odor compounds that are emitted through the skin and sweat. The source of these odor compounds can vary from internal to external factors
Body odor has a strong genetic basis both in animals and humans, but it can be also strongly influenced by various diseases and psychological conditions. These smaller molecules smell, and give body odor its characteristic aroma. Propionic acid (propanoic acid) is present in many sweat samples. This acid is a breakdown product of some amino acids by propionibacteria, which thrive in the ducts of adolescent and adult sebaceous glands.
Body odor can have a nice and specific smell to the individual, and can be used-especially by dogs and other animals-to identify people. Each person's unique body odor can be influenced by diet, gender, health, and medication. Two types of acid are commonly present when there is body odor: 1  Propionic acid (propanoic acid) is commonly found in sweat-propionibacteria break amino acids down into propionic acid.
Body odor is generally considered to be an unpleasant odor among many human cultures. These smaller molecules smell, and give body odor its characteristic aroma. Propionic acid (propanoic acid) is present in many sweat samples. This acid is a breakdown product of some amino acids by propionibacteria, which thrive in the ducts of adolescent and adult sebaceous glands.
Body odor: An unpleasant smell produced after perspiration. Body odor occurs when sweat contacts bacteria that normally reside on the skin. Sweat itself is almost odorless, but the combination of sweat with skin bacteria can produce an offensive odor. Good hygiene and antiperspirant or deodorant products can be used to manage the condition. In some unusually severe cases, prescription strength deodorants or antiperspirants may be required
Definition. Sweating and body odor are facts of life for most people. Heavy perspiration and body odor can happen when you exercise, when you're too warm, or when you're nervous, anxious or under stress. Your body has two main types of sweat glands, and they produce two very different types of sweat
a fetid smell associated with stale perspiration. Freshly secreted perspiration is odorless, but after exposure to the atmosphere and bacterial activity at the surface of the skin, chemical changes occur to produce the odor. Common body odor usually can be eliminated by bathing with soap and water. Body odors can also be the result of discharges from a variety of skin conditions, including cancer, fungus, hemorrhoids, leukemia, and ulcers. See also bromhidrosis. Sebaceous gland secretions from the skin contribute to these odors. Eating garlic or onions or taking certain drugs may add to the odors produced by sweat glands, but the major sources of body sweat odor are the volatile fatty acids, steroids, and amines emitted by apocrine glands.