Most other pennyroyal incidents involve the use of pennyroyal essential oil (generally used for therapeutic or homeopathic purposes or as an insect repellent), which is so potent that it should be considered a poison. In the interest of safety, never use pennyroyal essential oil for anything, not ever. 
Pennyroyal Tea  is a song by the American rock band Nirvana. It is the ninth track on the band's third and final studio album, In Utero (1993). The song was due to be released as the third single from In Utero in April 1994. However, after the death of Kurt Cobain in the same month, the planned release was cancelled. 
pennyroyal, name for two similar plants of the family Labiatae (mint family), usually distinguished as true, or European, pennyroyal (Mentha pulegium) and American, or mock, pennyroyal (Hedeoma pulegioides). Both have small bluish or purplish flowers in the leaf axils. Pennyroyal (Hedeoma pulegioides), known as American pennyroyal, and Mentha pulegium, known as English or European pennyroyal, are both members of the Lamiaceae or mint family. These two beneficial herbs, though classified in different genera, have similar chemical constituents and medicinal properties.
Pennyroyal is also known as Mentha pulegium, pulegium, American pennyroyal, run-by-the-ground, lurk-in-the-ditch, pudding grass, piliolerial, mosquito plant, squaw balm, and squawmint tickweed. 
Pennyroyal plant is a perennial herb that was once widely used but is not as common today. It has applications as an herbal remedy, culinary uses and as a decorative touch. Growing pennyroyal in the herb or perennial garden will add color with its reddish purple to lilac blooms. There are two plants called pennyroyal. One is the European pennyroyal (Mentha pulegium), which is a member of the mint family. The other is the American pennyroyal from an unrelated genus, Hedeoma pulegoides. 
Definition of PENNYROYAL. 1. : a European perennial mint (Mentha pulegium) with small aromatic leaves. 2. : an aromatic North American mint (Hedeoma pulegioides) that has blue or violet flowers borne in axillary tufts and yields an oil used in folk medicine or to drive away mosquitoes. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Pennyroyal is an herbal extract or oil derived from leaves of the plant in the mint genus (Mentha pulegium) that was used in the past as an insect repellent and an abortifacient. CASE REPORT. 
PENNYROYAL Overview Information. Pennyroyal is a plant. The oil and leaves are used to make medicine. Throughout history, both American pennyroyal and European pennyroyal have been used interchangeably as a source of oil. Despite serious safety concerns, pennyroyal is used for colds, pneumonia, and other breathing problems. It is also used for stomach pains, gas, intestinal disorders, and liver and gallbladder problems. Women use it to start or regulate their menstrual periods, or to cause an abortion
Pennyroyal (botanical name Mentha pulegium) belongs to the mint species and is a member of the Lamiaceae family. Although this herb is native to Europe and the western regions of Asia, pennyroyal has now been naturalized in North and South America. Several species and a wide variety of pennyroyal, such as apple mint, pineapple mint, orange mint, are found across the globe.