Bone or joint fusion surgery, called arthrodesis, is performed to relieve arthritis pain in the ankles, wrists, fingers, thumbs, or spine. Joint fusion of the spine is used as a treatment for severe pain caused by a variety of back problems such as a herniated disc or a tumor.
Overview Also known as Arthrodesis.Two percent of primary and 8% of revision total knee replacements are followed by knee fusion, or arthrodesis. Knee fusion is a salvage procedure performed when a total knee replacement fails, usually due to infection, or when the risk of failure of total knee replacement is high.
If you have the fusion you will not be able to move the knee out of that position (No crap hunh). Just try to do the things you are wanting to do after surgery with your knee in the position it is going to be fused. If you are ok with that, then that is great. Another option may be amputation. Best Answer: Have the knee fused ONLY if ALL ELSE has failed. Knee fusion is a LAST resort and really a poor one. You will NOT be able to drive, or walk without a limp. Sitting will be a problem and you will have one leg (the fused one) straight forever more. There is no turning back once this is done.
Joint fusion surgery is used in patients whose joints have eroded or have been destroyed by osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, or other forms of arthritis. Joint fusion of the spine is used as a treatment for severe pain caused by a variety of back problems such as a herniated disc or a tumor.
A. A. A. Bone or joint fusion surgery, called arthrodesis, is performed to relieve arthritis pain in the ankles, wrists, fingers, thumbs, or spine. In arthrodesis, two bones on each end of a joint are fused, eliminating the joint itself. Joint fusion of the spine is used as a treatment for severe pain caused by a variety of back problems such as a herniated disc or a tumor.
Midfoot fusion can involve all of the midfoot joints. More commonly just one or a few of the joints are fused. The joints of the midfoot do not bend and move like your knee or elbow. They are designed to be relatively stiff to give your foot strength and support your body. Midfoot fusion does not generally produce much noticeable loss of motion because there is fairly little motion to begin with. The most common reason for midfoot fusion is painful arthritis in the midfoot joints that has not improved with nonsurgical treatment. Other common reasons to do a midfoot fusion include too much motion of one or more of the midfoot joints or deformity of the midfoot.
Lumbar spinal fusion is surgery to join, or fuse, two or more vertebrae in the low back. Spinal fusion is major surgery, usually lasting several hours. There are different methods of spinal fusion. 1  Bone is taken from the pelvic bone or from a bone bank. 
The success of obtaining a fusion after total knee replacement differs significantly when comparing failed nonconstrained prostheses (80%) with failed hinges (35%)(3). Success rates as low as 21% have been reported for attempted fusion upon removal of hinged prostheses (7). External compression arthrodesis is the technique of choice in the majority of cases. In the presence of infection, this method clearly is preferred over internal fixation. The surgical technique of fusion following failed total knee replacement is difficult and demanding. Careful removal of the prosthesis and cement, preservation of bone stock and creation of large contact surfaces, increase the chances of a successful fusion