Fiji Time is mainly dependent on the location of Fiji in the South Pacific. The country of Fiji are a part of the continent of Oceania. It belongs to the sub region of Melanesia. The 180 degree Meridian passes through Fiji Islands. So the South Pacific islands of Fiji are often called 'The Crossroads of the Pacific'. Flora of Fiji is mainly determined by the geographical location of Fiji in the South Pacific, the topographical features dominating the country, the weather conditions and the influence of the human settlement. Fiji Islands are situated in the midst of the waters of the Pacific Ocean.
1 The Fiji Islands are an archipelago of over 330 islands located in the South Pacific region. 2  The capital city Suva, is located on the main island of Vitu Levu. 3  Nadi is the gateway to Fiji and is home to Fiji's main international airport. Coral Coast Pacific Harbor. If you prefer to stay on the main island of Viti Levu, but want the activity and resort options offered by a 45-mile, palm-tree-dotted playground, the Coral Coast is the Fiji vacation destination for you.
Fiji Facts. Fiji consists of over 320 islands many of which are not inhabited. The main island Vitu Levu contains the capital Suva in the east and Nadi (pronounced Nandi) on the west coast. Nadi is the location of the international airport where holiday visitors arrive. Many resorts and Fiji hotels are located on the largest 2 islands of Fiji, Viti Levu and Vanua Levu while others are on smaller islands that may contain a small number of resorts or even a single resort.
Fiji, officially called the Republic of the Fiji Islands, is an island group located in Oceania between Hawaii and New Zealand. Fiji is made up of 332 islands and only 110 are inhabited. Fiji is one of the most developed Pacific Islands and has a strong economy based on mineral extraction and agriculture. Geography and Climate of Fiji. The country of Fiji is spread across 332 islands in the South Pacific Ocean and is located closest to Vanuatu and the Solomon Islands. Much of Fiji's terrain is varied and its islands consist mainly of small beaches and mountains with a volcanic history.
Vanua Levu. Formerly known as Sandalwood Island, Vanua Levu is the second largest island of Fiji. Located 64 kilometres to the north of the larger Viti Levu, the island has an area of 5,587.1 km² and a population of some 130,000. Taveuni. The third largest island, near Vanua Levu, with the 180th meridian cutting the island in half. Fiji is an archipelago consisting of 333 islands of which around 100 are inhabited. The four largest islands, Viti Levu, Vanua Levu, Taveuni and Kadavu are surrounded by coral reefs and have mountains located in the central region of each island which cover a large portion of the land mass.
Geography. Located in the South Pacific Ocean, some 1,300 miles (2,000 km) northeast of New Zealand's North Island, the island nation of Fiji is comprised of more than 332 islands, of which 110 are inhabited, and an additional 500 islets. Most of Fiji's mountains are dormant or extinct volcanoes. Mount Tomanivi, located on the main island of Viti Levu, is the highest point at 4,341 feet (1,324 m), and the lowest point is the Pacific Ocean (0 m).
Fiji Islands are located on the way two-thirds from Hawaii to New Zealand in the Pacific Ocean. They are a part of the South Pacific island group collectively called Oceania. The total number of islands constituting the Fiji Islands is 332 of which only 110 are inhabited. Flora of Fiji is mainly determined by the geographical location of Fiji in the South Pacific, the topographical features dominating the country, the weather conditions and the influence of the human settlement. Fiji Islands are situated in the midst of the waters of
The Sun Coast region of the Fiji Islands is located on the northern shore of the main island of Viti Levu. The coast stretches approximately 40 kilometers from the town of Ba past Rakiraki to Nananu-i-Ra Island at the northern tip of Viti Levu. 
Fiji comprises of approximately 330 islands, about one-third are inhabited. It covers about 1.3 million square kilometers of the South Pacific Ocean. The two major islands are Viti Levu and Vanua Levu. After nearly a century as British colony, Fiji became independent in 1970. Today Fiji has one of the most developed economies of the Pacific islands.
Fiji is an archipelago of more than 332 islands, of which 110 are permanently inhabited, and more than 500 islets, amounting to a total land area of about 18,300 square kilometres (7,100 sq mi). The farthest island is Onu-i-Lau. Fiji has several popular tourism destinations. The Botanical Gardens of Thursten in Suva, Sigatoka Sand Dunes, and Colo-I-Suva Forest Park are three options on the mainland (Viti Levu). A major attraction on the outer islands is scuba diving.