According to the Alaska SeaLife Center, horned puffins live 20 years or more, and tufted puffins live 15-20 years. And according to National Geographic online, Atlantic puffin … s live 20 years or more.
This winter, when COASST’s first Horned Puffins washed ashore along the coast of Oregon and Washington, Bert and Mike weren’t the only ones surprised. Bob Paine, a marine ecologist working on Tatoosh Island, WA recently spotted a live Horned Puffin just off the Cape Flattery coast. Horned Puffin on its nest in Alaska.
Two species live in Alaskan waters: the horned puffin (Fratercula corniculata) and the tufted puffin (Fratercula cirrhata). They belong to the family alcidae, which includes auks, auklets, murres, murrelets, and guillemots. Alcids spend most of their lives on the open sea and only visit land to breed in the summer.
The horned puffin and the tufted puffin are found in the Pacific Ocean. It is estimated that there are 15 to 20 million pair of puffin in the world. Puffins resemble penguins as their white underbelly contrasts their black coat. This coloring is a form of camouflage called counter shading.
Range & Habitat. The Horned Puffin looks a lot like the Atlantic Puffin but their ranges do not cross. The Horned Puffin is found on the Pacific coast of the United States, in cold northern ocean waters, on sea cliffs covered with grass, and on rocks. It winters at sea as far south as Washington.
Natural History. Horned puffins live primarily on the open ocean, but return to coastal nesting grounds in summer, where they mate and raise their chicks. They nest in crevices on cliffs and rocky islands, often in dense, large, mixed colonies with other puffins and auks.
The horned puffin is a small, pigeon-sized bird with black uppersides and a white chest and undersides. It has a white face and cheeks with a small black horn above its eyes and a thin, dark line that runs from from its eyes to the nape of its neck. It has a large, triangular orange bill with a red tip.
The Horned Puffin looks a lot like the Atlantic Puffin but their ranges do not cross. The Horned Puffin is found on the Pacific coast of the United States, in cold northern ocean waters, on sea cliffs covered with grass, and on rocks.
For most of the year, Atlantic puffins live on the open ocean, with a range spanning from the eastern coast of Canada and the northern United States to the western coast of Europe and northern Russia. 60% of the world’s puffins live near Iceland.