The Samsung Galaxy S 6 edge S-View Flip Cover, Clear was developed with your busy lifestyle in mind. This smart case, designed to protect and enhance the Samsung Galaxy S 6 edge, is the perfect combination of style and functionality. The Samsung S-View Flip Cover, Clear protects the smartphone's screen when it is not in use and is easily flipped open for full access to your device.
Read along and check out our full review of the new S-View Flip Cover for the Galaxy Note 4. My first reaction when seeing the $50 (well, $44.95 from ShopAndroid) price tag on the S-View case was to scoff at how little value it provided for that top dollar. Actually you can get it for $25 like I did with the note 4 and my s4 s view cover. When you buy a new Samsung device and sign in to your Samsung account and register your device Samsung always sends you a coupon code for %50 off on an order from their store. I only paid 28 bucks with shipping for my s view cove
The S-View Flip Cover does NOT include Qi wireless charging. I found on Samsung sites outside the US that there is another Flip Cover with wireless charging capability that looks to run about $15 to $20 more. This wireless cover does not appear on the Samsung US store. 
Next. The Samsung Galaxy S6 edge+ S-View Flip Cover protects your screen when it is not in use and is easily flipped open for full access to the screen. When closed, the S-View cover offers instant access to critical features through a unique window interface, thanks to the Samsung ID chip. 
The Samsung Galaxy S 6 edge S-View Flip Cover, Clear protects your entire handset, including your screen, when it is not in use and is easily flipped open for full access to your device. When closed, the S-View Cover, Clear offers instant, full screen access to critical information, thanks to the Samsung ID chip. The Samsung S-View Flip Cover, Clear protects the smartphone's screen when it is not in use and is easily flipped open for full access to your device.
And in reality the s view cover is just a flip case with a cut out, and a simple software update would install the needed code for us edge users to use it. This, of course is my humble opinion. Lol ✒✒ Sent from my fantastic and feature rich Samsung Galaxy Note Edge.✒✒. I have the edge flip case now, and would love to be able to use the s view case instead in order to use the features offered to note 4 users. Sent from my fantastic and feature rich (And i'd like to point out anything but a gimmic) Samsung Galaxy Note Edge. 12-18-2014, 08:07 AM #2.
Usefulness: 4.2. With an S-View display window, this Samsung S-View flip cover provides helpful shortcuts and notifications, so you can stay apprised of your Samsung Galaxy S 5 cell phone's information and recent activity, even when the cover is closed.