Animals can have internal or external skeletons-while some do not have a skeleton at all. Insects have an external skeleton made of chitin. Sharks have an internal skeleton made of cartilage, and humans have an internal skeleton made of cartilage and bone. Hinge joints and ball and socket joints are synovial joints. The biceps and triceps muscles act as an antagonistic pair to move the arm at the elbow.
Fish muscles come in three different types, red, pink and white. Most fish have a mixture of two, or all three, types of muscle, but keep the types in discrete groupings, however in the salmonid fishes the red and white muscle types are mixed to form a mosaic type of muscle. Salmon are a particularly good fish for studying the basic shape of fish muscle because the coloration of their muscles allows you to see the edges of each myotome, as in the picture above and the photos below. The myomeres are not flat sheets of muscle, but are folded into a 3-d shape.
The skeleton of the fish is either made of cartilage (cartilaginous fishes) or bones (bony fishes). The main features of the fish, the fins, are bony fin rays and, except the caudal fin, have no direct connection with the spine. They are supported only by the muscles. The ribs attach to the spine. The bony fish lineage shows more derived anatomical traits, often with major evolutionary changes from the features of ancient fish. They have a bony skeleton, are generally laterally flattened, have five pairs of gills protected by an operculum, and a mouth at or near the tip of the snout.
The arms and legs are part of the appendicular skeleton. The upper bones of the limbs are single: humerus (arm) and femur (leg). Below a joint (elbow or knee), both limbs have a pair of bones (radius and ulna in the arms; tibia and fibula in legs) that connect to another joint (wrist or ankle). The carpals makeup the wrist joint; the tarsals are in the ankle joint. The axial skeleton consists of the skull, vertebral column, and rib cage. The appendicular skeleton contains the bones of the appendages (limbs, wings, or flippers/fins), and the pectoral and pelvic girdles. The human skull, or cranium, has a number of individual bones tightly fitted together at immovable joints.
The skeleton and muscles function together as the musculoskeletal system. This system (often treated as two separate systems, the muscular, and skeletal) plays an important homeostatic role: allowing the animal to move to more favorable external conditions. The axial skeleton consists of the skull, vertebral column, and rib cage. The appendicular skeleton contains the bones of the appendages (limbs, wings, or flippers/fins), and the pectoral and pelvic girdles. The human skull, or cranium, has a number of individual bones tightly fitted together at immovable joints.
Endoskeletons. An endoskeleton or internal skeleton is on the inside of the body. Animals such as fish, birds and mammals have endoskeletons. Your own skeleton is an internal one. The skull is part of the skeleton. Internal skeletons have advantages over external skeletons. Insects have an external skeleton made of chitin. Sharks have an internal skeleton made of cartilage, and humans have an internal skeleton made of cartilage and bone. Hinge joints and ball and socket joints are synovial joints. The biceps and triceps muscles act as an antagonistic pair to move the arm at the elbow.
Humans (like you) can move because your body is supported by an internal skeleton-that's right, you are just a bag of bones! Look at the bones that make up the human skeleton. All vertebrate animals (fish, amphibians, reptiles, birds and mammals) have internal skeletons. 
4 - Electric organs. Skeletal muscles have muscular & tendinous portions: 1  Muscle-consists of skeletal muscle cells (which, in turn, consist of myofibrils and myofilaments). 2  Tendons-extensions of a muscle's tough connective tissue sheath (fascia & epimysium) that anchor a muscle to its origin & insertion. 
Gram for gram fish have more muscle than any other vertebrate, a male salmon or tuna can be nearly 70% muscle, which is one reason why fish are so good to eat. The muscles of fish are layered rather than bundled as in the other vertebrates. Salmon are a particularly good fish for studying the basic shape of fish muscle because the coloration of their muscles allows you to see the edges of each myotome, as in the picture above and the photos below. The myomeres are not flat sheets of muscle, but are folded into a 3-d shape.
While vertebrates all have skeletons to give their bodies shape and support, invertebrates have no bones. Many of the invertebrates have an exoskeleton, or a hard outer shell, as their skin to act like bones do. When some people think of skeletons, they think of Halloween or some mad scientist's display in a laboratory. But we all have a skeleton. It is what gives our bodies shape and form. Without a skeleton, we would be a heap of skin and muscles.