Within 2 hours of cooking food or holding it hot, leftovers must be refrigerated. Throw away all perishable foods that have been left at room tempera-ture for more than 2 hours (1 hour if the temperature is over 90° F, such as at an outdoor picnic during sum-mer). After thawing, the food should be used within 3 to 4 days or can be refrozen.Cold water thawing is faster than refrigerator thaw-ing but requires more attention. The frozen leftovers should be placed in a leak-proof package or plastic bag.
“How long can I keep leftovers in the refrigerator?” “To what temperture should I reheat leftovers?” “If I thaw leftovers, can I refreeze them?” To answer these questions and others, fol-low the USDA Food Safety and Inspection Service’s recommendations for handling leftovers safely. After thawing, the food should be used within 3 to 4 days or can be refrozen.Cold water thawing is faster than refrigerator thaw-ing but requires more attention. The frozen leftovers should be placed in a leak-proof package or plastic bag.
The fact that there is air present will allow mold growth, but, if the leftovers are properly refrigerated, they should keep for several days. How long they keep depends on the vegetable, what else was in the product, and the “available” water (water not tied up with solutes like salt, sugar). If covered and properly refrigerated, they will last a week or longer. Cooked vegetables should be placed in covered containers with some airspace. Air prevents the germination of botulism spores (which requires air). These spores are not killed by boiling (212°F) temperatures.
Store Leftovers Safely. Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days or frozen for 3 to 4 months. Although safe indefinitely, frozen leftovers can lose moisture and flavor when stored for longer times in the freezer. Within 2 hours of cooking food or after it is removed from an appliance keeping it warm, leftovers must be refrigerated. Throw away all perishable foods that have been left in room temperature for more than 2 hours (1 hour if the temperature is over 90° F, such as at an outdoor picnic during summer).
As a rule of thumb, you shouldn't keep already prepared meals longer than three or four days [source: Dakss ]. That goes for pretty much all your leftovers, from salads to meatloaf. Remember, just because you put all your excess food in the fridge doesn't mean it won't go bad. 
- leftover cooked meat and meat dishes: 3-4 days. - leftover leftover poultry: (dishes and pieces) 3-4 days; pieces covered with broth: 1-2 days. - leftover carryout: 3-4 days (assuming it had been refrigerated within 2 hours of serving). Source(s): If covered and properly refrigerated, they will last a week or longer. Cooked vegetables should be placed in covered containers with some airspace. Air prevents the germination of botulism spores (which requires air). These spores are not killed by boiling (212°F) temperatures.
Leftovers can be kept for three to four days in the refrigerator. Be sure to eat them within that time. After that, the risk of food poisoning increases. If you don't think you'll be able to eat leftovers within four days, freeze them immediately. Food poisoning — also called foodborne illness — is caused by harmful organisms, such as bacteria in contaminated food. Your goal is to minimize the time a food is in the danger zone — between 40 and 140 F (4 and 60 C) — when bacteria can quickly multiply. When you're ready to eat leftovers, reheat them on the stove, in the oven or in the microwave until the internal temperature reaches 165 F (74 C).
Cooked Food: Leftover, cooked foods should be kept in the refrigerator in an airtight container and eaten within 4-5 days. Food, whether cooked or not, should not be left at room temperature for more than 4 hours otherwise the risk of food poisoning increases. You can refrigerate them for up to 5 days as long as they are stored properly — wrapped in a paper towel and then sealed inside a plastic bag. Fresh Beans/Peas: Depending on the variety, they can be kept, tightly wrapped, in the refrigerator for 3-5 days.
For every 20 minutes over two hours your food sits at room temperature, the level of bacteria doubles in quantity, so don’t procrastinate! Leftovers can safely keep for 3 to 4 days in the refrigerator, or 3 to 4 months in the freezer. Follow the following USDA guidelines for handling leftovers safely: • Throw away hot or cold food that has been left out at room temperature for more than 2 hours, or 1 hour if the temperature happened to be extremely warm, such as above 90°F (for instance at an outdoor event).
Immediately refrigerate or freeze the wrapped leftovers for rapid cooling. Store Leftovers Safely Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days or frozen (0° F or below) for 3 to 4 months. After thawing, the food should be used within 3 to 4 days or can be refrozen.Cold water thawing is faster than refrigerator thaw-ing but requires more attention. The frozen leftovers should be placed in a leak-proof package or plastic bag.