Within each fiber are myofibrils composed of thick and thin filaments made of protein. The regular arrangement of these filaments gives striated muscle its striped appearance. The basic functional unit of a muscle is the sarcomere, a section of a myofibril. One is shown here, bordered by the crooked blue lines. A sarcomere is composed of thick filaments of myosin, in red, and thin filaments of actin, in blue. 
1 The cell is the basic structural and functional unit of life. 2  Cells are independent, single-celled organisms that take in nutrients, excrete wastes, detect and respond to their environment, move, breathe, grow, and reproduce. 
The sarcomere is the contractile unit. It is the space between two Z discs that contains one group of myosin fillaments and two groups of actin fillaments, one group on … each end of the myosin fillaments. Z discs join sarcomeres together end-to-end to form myofibrils. The muscle performs many important functions for the body. It  produces movement, maintains posture and gives shape to your body,  stabilizes joints, and generates heat. Mus … cles protect your  internal organs as well. The visceral or smooth muscles assist in  the circulation of blood.
Skeletal muscle is a form of striated muscle tissue which is under the voluntary control of the somatic nervous system. It is one of three major muscle types, the others being cardiac muscle and smooth muscle. Most skeletal muscles are attached to bones by bundles of collagen fibers known as tendons. Skeletal muscle is made up of individual muscle cells or myocytes, known as muscle fibers. They are formed from the fusion of developmental myoblasts (a type of embryonic progenitor cell that gives rise to a muscle cell) in a process known as myogenesis. Muscle fibres are cylindrical, and multinucleated.
Best Answer: The basic functional unit of a muscle is the sarcomere, a section of a myofibril. Source(s): http://www.mhhe.com/biosci/esp/2001_gbio... 
Functionally one differentiates between the single-unit and multi-unit type. The smooth muscle cells of the single-unit type are electrically connected by gap junctions and contract uniformly. This type of cells is found in the wall of internal organs and blood vessels (visceral smooth musculature).
The myofibrils are composed of actin and myosin filaments, repeated in units called sarcomeres, the basic functional units of the muscle fiber. The sarcomere is responsible for the striated appearance of skeletal muscle, and forms the basic machinery necessary for muscle contraction. Skeletal muscle is made up of individual muscle cells or myocytes, known as muscle fibers. They are formed from the fusion of developmental myoblasts (a type of embryonic progenitor cell that gives rise to a muscle cell) in a process known as myogenesis. Muscle fibres are cylindrical, and multinucleated.
Near the end the collagen merges to form the tendons, which attach the muscle to the bone. It is through this connective tissue that the force generated by the individual cells is transmitted to the bone. A group of muscle cells are bundled together by collagen to form a fascicle. Since muscle cells are elongated and cylindrical, each muscle cell is usually called a muscle fiber. In skeletal muscle, the muscle fibers are very large, multinucleated, and up to several millimeters in length