Other origins for the name Christine include-English, Greek, French.The name Christine is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-A variant of Christina. In the 1950s, Christine was one of the three most common feminine names in Britain. Famous people: American tennis player Chris Lloyd was born Christine Evert. Origin-English. English name. In English, the name Christine means-A variant of Christina. In the 1950s, Christine was one of the three most common feminine names in Britain. Famous people: American tennis player Chris Lloyd was born Christine Evert..
Greek Meaning: The name Christine is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Christine is: Christian. Latin Meaning: The name Christine is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Christine is: Christian. American Meaning: The name Christine is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Christine is: Christian. In English the meaning of the name Christine is: A. In the 1950s, Christine was one of the three most common feminine names in Britain. Famous people: American tennis player Chris Lloyd was born Christine Evert.
Usage: Christine, of Latin origin, is a very popular first name. It is more often used as a girl (female) name. People having the name Christine are in general originating from Austria, Bahamas, Belgium, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Jamaica, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, United Kingdom, United States of America. Popularity of the Name. The name Christine is ranked on the 78th position of the most used names. It means that this name is very frequently used. We estimate that there are at least 5632900 persons in the world having this name which is around 0.078% of the population.
It is a name in regular usage in French, English, German, Scandinavian, Dutch and Slavic cultures, and it is often associated with the meaning follower of Christ.. Other ways to say Christine are Christina, Kristina, Kristine, Kristen, Kirsten, Hristina, Cristina (most used in Spain and Latin American countries), etc. It is a popular name; for example, in 1968, it was the 14th most frequently-given name for girls in the United States. The name Christine can be shortened to Chris or Chrissy (Crissy), with the latter form more common, especially with the younger generation.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Christine. Christine is the French form of the Medieval Latin name Christianus meaning “a Christian”. Ultimately, the Latin word for a Christian is derived from the Greek Christos from “chrio” meaning “to anoint”. 
English Meaning: The name Christine is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Christine is: A. In the 1950s, Christine was one of the three most common feminine names in Britain. Famous people: American tennis player Chris Lloyd was born Christine Evert.
Origin of the name Christina: Derived from the Ecclesiastic Late Latin christiānus which is from the Ecclesiastic Greek christianos (a Christian, a follower of Christ). Var: Christiene, Christine, Cristina, Khristina, Khristine, Kristina, Kristene. Short: Chris, Cris, Khris, Kris, Tina. Meanings and history of the name Christina : | Edit. Meaning: Follower of Christ. Christina is a female name originating from Christian.Saint Christina (3rd or 5th century AD), a saint and martyr pre-dating the Catholic and Orthodox congregational tradition. Usage: English, German, Scandinavian, Dutch.
Christine /chris-tine/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced kris-TEEN. It is of French and Latin origin, and the meaning of Christine is follower of Christ. Originally a French form of Christina used as an English name since the 19th century. Kreatif forms: Charstine, Christile. 
Origin of the name Christine: Derived from the Ecclesiastic Late Latin christiānus which is from the Ecclesiastic Greek christianos (a Christian, a follower of Christ). Var: Christiene, Christine, Cristina, Khristina, Khristine, Kristina, Kristene. Short: Chris, Cris, Khris, Kris, Tina. Meanings and history of the name Christine : | Edit. Meanings of the name Christine. Greek: Christian. Latin: Christian. American: Christian. French: Follower of Christ.
Christine is a feminine name of Greek or Latin origin. It is derived from the word Christ, which is the Greek translation of the Hebrew word “Messiah”. Popularity of the Name. The name Christine is ranked on the 78th position of the most used names. It means that this name is very frequently used. We estimate that there are at least 5632900 persons in the world having this name which is around 0.078% of the population.