Inorganic refers to a mineral that is made of compounds which are not organic. When something is inorganic, it has not arisen from natural growth. Inorganic also refers to bei … ng of a non-biological and inanimate origin. 12 people found this useful. 
An inorganic compound is a compound that is considered not  organic . Inorganic compounds are traditionally viewed as being synthesized by the agency of geological systems. In contrast, organic compounds are found in biological systems. The distinction between inorganic and organic compounds is not always clear. Organic chemists traditionally refer to any molecule containing carbon as an organic compound and by default this means that inorganic chemistry deals with molecules lacking carbon. although many minerals are of biological origin. 
The idea that cooking converts organic minerals to an inorganic form is fairly common in rawist circles--. When we apply it [fire] to our food in the process of cooking, it results in such a change as destroys the elementary plant form, and the mineral elements return to their inorganic condition. The claim is that cooking converts minerals to inorganic form, not that incineration converts minerals to inorganic form. It is true that given enough heat, carbon can be driven off and one gets an inorganic molecule.
There is much confusion and contention around the issue of organic vs. inorganic minerals and the efficacious application of one over the other. Results of supplementing with inorganic ionic minerals speak to the effectiveness of inorganic individual ionic elements (not bonded to carbon) and can therefore attest to the fact that the body does not need its minerals bonded to carbon for beneficial absorption and utilization.
They have an ionic bond which the body can break down into usable material for tissue repair and function. It is made of a plant (which draws the inorganic mineral from the soil by way of the roots and converts them into organic minerals), or living organism and the body uses it as food. There is also the spin of the electron (organic mineral's electrons spin clockwise as do the cells of the human body. Inorganic mineral's electrons spin counterclockwise.). The vibratory rate of organic minerals is comparable to tissue and cells. Inorganic minerals are not. 
There is a lot of information and there are a lot of opinions circulating as to the best sources of dietary minerals, pitting plant sourced (organic) against rock sourced (inorganic). Since opinions run the gamut, and depending what you read, you will get conflicting information. Results of supplementing with inorganic ionic minerals speak to the effectiveness of inorganic individual ionic elements (not bonded to carbon) and can therefore attest to the fact that the body does not need its minerals bonded to carbon for beneficial absorption and utilization.
A mineral is a naturally occurring substance, representable by a chemical formula, that is usually solid and inorganic, and has a crystal structure. It is different from a rock, which can be an aggregate of minerals or non-minerals and does not have a specific chemical composition. 
When addressing organic as a mineral description, it means that the element in question is bonded to a carbon atom, which is another inorganic element. Because all living creatures are carbon based, being bonded to a carbon atom theoretically makes any element more bioavailable and usable by a living organism. Results of supplementing with inorganic ionic minerals speak to the effectiveness of inorganic individual ionic elements (not bonded to carbon) and can therefore attest to the fact that the body does not need its minerals bonded to carbon for beneficial absorption and utilization.