Osprey Facts. Breeding Age at first breeding: 3-5 years Number of eggs: Usually 3 Size of eggs (mm): 62 x 46 Incubation period: 35-42 days Fledging period: 53 days. First migration By late August or early September, the young Ospreys leave their nest sites and head south on their first migration.
Related tutorials: How-To #2: The First 60 Days. General Hints. First things first-eggs should hatch in 21 days, though some may hatch a day or 2 early and some a day or 2 late, after the incubation period began.
Eggs and incubation Female Ospreys begin to lay their eggs in late April. The eggs are beautifully blotched reddish-brown and are about the same size as a large hens’ egg. They are produced at two-day intervals: Novice breeders will usually lay two eggs; experienced pairs lay three or very occasionally four. Breeding Age at first breeding: 3-5 years Number of eggs: Usually 3 Size of eggs (mm): 62 x 46 Incubation period: 35-42 days Fledging period: 53 days. First migration By late August or early September, the young Ospreys leave their nest sites and head south on their first migration.
How long does it take for a turkey egg to hatch? Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. + 158 others found this useful.
Both ospreys will tend to the eggs safety, although the female always does the majority of the incubation. In some pairs males never incubate the eggs, and in other pairs males will incubate for an hour or more whilst the female has a break to fly, toilet and eat. 
Rarely four eggs are laid, although these may not all hatch, nor all survive to fledging. Q: How far apart are the eggs laid? A: Osprey eggs are usually laid 1-3 days apart, that is with an average of two days between each, although a gap of up to 6 days has been observed, the whole clutch laid over up to 10 days. Q: How big are the eggs? A: Surprisingly, osprey eggs are only the size of a large hens or duck egg. Osprey Diary 17th April: Egg Q and A. Posted on April 17, 2014 by rangeremma. A wonderfully calm and uneventful day today on the osprey nest at Loch of the Lowes, with the two eggs being incubated in the spring sunshine by both parents.
Osprey, Pandion haliaetus, is a member of the Family Pandioninae. There is only one species of Osprey found worldwide. This fascinating raptor plunges into water for fish, the only raptor that does. Ospreys are medium-large raptor, measuring 21-24.5 inches long with a 4.5 to 6 foot wingspan. Coloration is black above and white below. The head is mostly white with a black streak through the cheeks.
Osprey incubation is 32-42 days, with an average of 38 days. Female Ospreys do most of the sitting, depending on males to provide food. However, some males handle up to 30% of incubation time. Osprey typically return to the vicinity of their hatching place when they are about two years old; breeding for the first time when three years old. Osprey eggs do not hatch all at once. Rather, the first chick emerges up to five days before the last one. 
How long does it take for a chicken egg to hatch? With optimum conditions such as temperature and humidity a chicken egg takes 21 days to hatch.    From when it was layed, about 20-28 days,depending on the breed. From th … e time when the egg first cracked, about one day. Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. + 158 others found this useful.
Ospreys are large birds of prey (55 to 58 cm long), with a wingspan from 145 to 170 cm. Their long wings have are bent at the carpal (wrist) joints. They are bright white underneath, with dark brown patches at the carpal joints and a speckled dark brown necklace. When osprey chicks hatch, they are covered in white down with brown streaks on the face, back, and wings. When the chicks are 10 days old, the white down is replaced by charcoal-colored down. Chicks begin to grow feathers when they are two weeks old.