Narcissistic rage is the uncontrollable and unexpected anger that results from a narcissistic injury – a threat to a narcissist’s self-esteem or worth. Rage comes in many forms, but all pertain to the same important thing, revenge. Narcissistic rages are based on fear and will endure even after the threat is gone.
Narcissistic rage is one of the classic defining traits of the narcissist! If you’ve ever wounded a narcissist through a casual comment, challenge to their self-esteem, or even with an innocent remark, you know exactly what a “blowup” and the resulting rage looks, feels and sounds like.
These are a threat to the narcissist's ego and his sense of control and the term used is narcissistic injury. An injury can be a real threat or a perceived threat. So even if the narcissist thinks that there is a threat, he or she may respond with rage.
Narcissistic rage – a term first coined by Heinz Kohut in 1972 – is a reaction to narcissistic injury, a perceived threat to a narcissist’s self-esteem or self-worth.
In order to define narcissistic rage, we must first determine narcissistic injury. A perceived threat to the self esteem of a narcissist is categorized as an episode of narcissistic injury. When symptoms of anger or irritation are expressed in response to a narcissistic injury, it results in narcissistic rage.
Narcissistic rage is a reaction to narcissistic injury, a perceived threat to a narcissist’s self-esteem or self-worth.
Narcissistic rage is a reaction to” narcissistic injury”, i.e., a perceived threat to their self-worth or self-esteem. Narcissistic rage can be either explosive or passive-aggressive, although most people associate the explosive type with the term ‘narcissistic rage’.
Narcissistic rage is expressed on a continuum, from aloofness and the proverbial “cold shoulder,” or an expression of mild irritation or annoyance, to worse. Most narcissistic victims have experienced serious outbursts of rage, including violent physical attacks, screaming and emotional abuse to hysteria.
Narcissistic Rage. Narcissistic rage is the response of a narcissist to anything they perceive as a threat to their ego, their control or their power. It is usually intense, out of proportion, often random and is used to manipulate. Before looking at each of these items, a bit of background.