· just now. Report Abuse. hello! yes planned parenthood is ALL free if you have no insurance. they ask for donations but it is not required to give. you can get a preggo test, std testing/treatment, pap tests, UTI test/treatment, birth control. as for abortion, this may cost you. Info on abortion if you need it. . . . If you go to a Planned Parenthood clinic that has a low-income program it can be as cheap as 100$. If you tells them you have no job, no money and no support they will likely have you pay the minimum for the procedure and get donations to cover the rest.
We accept most insurance plans and have low and no-cost options to meet everyone's needs. Eligibility for low-to no-cost services is determined by a variety of factors including income, insurance status, and programs available at your local Planned Parenthood health center. Call us to find out if you qualify. Our nonjudgmental environment allows you to get information, testing and treatment for a variety of issues in a discreet manner, and if you need a prescription after your clinic visit, our on-site pharmacy allows us to write a prescription and fill it at your visit before you leave — all in one step.
1 For patients covered by health insurance, tests sometimes are done at no charge to the patient. 2  If not, typical out-of-pocket expenses consist of a laboratory copay of $10 to $30 per test. 1 For HIV, a Home Access test kit, the only brand approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, but generally is not reimbursed by health insurance, usually costs between $45 and $60.
1 If not, typical out-of-pocket expenses consist of a laboratory copay of $10 to $30 per test. 2  For patients not covered by health insurance, STD tests done at a doctor's office usually cost $50 to $200 each, depending on the test. 1 For HIV, a Home Access test kit, the only brand approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, but generally is not reimbursed by health insurance, usually costs between $45 and $60.
The app is free to download, and users can charge the $149 STD test kit to a credit or debit card via the app. For individuals who can't afford to pay, free STD testing is still available in brick-and-mortar Planned Parenthood locations. 
It doesn't coast anything at a clinic if your insurance covers it There are some organizations and clinics that offer affordable STD testing. (Planned Parenthood)    Ot … her places offer FREE testing, but it really depends on your area. I know Los Angeles County has various free testing sites. I recommend you do a search and look up your county+ free STD testing. If you go to the health department, it is free
Discounts: 1  With HIV testing, a window period of three to six months applies. 2  A doctor's visit could add $80 to $200, or a doctor's visit copay of $10 to $30 for those covered by health insurance. 1 For HIV, a Home Access test kit, the only brand approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, but generally is not reimbursed by health insurance, usually costs between $45 and $60.
1 For patients not covered by health insurance, STD tests done at a doctor's office usually cost $50 to $200 each, depending on the test. 1 For HIV, a Home Access test kit, the only brand approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, but generally is not reimbursed by health insurance, usually costs between $45 and $60.
1 For example, Planned Parenthood in Houston charges $28 for a chlamydia test, and AnyLabTestNow.com charges $89 for a chlamydia urine test or $129 for a combined chlamydia/gonorrhea test. 2  Drugstore.com charges about $13 for a one-week course of the generic antibiotic doxycycline hyclate. 3  And. 
Many free clinics offer free or low-cost STD testing. You can check with a Planned Parenthood, women’s health clinic, or similar public health clinics funded by the city or state to see what options are available. Additionally, college students are usually able to receive free testing through the university. 