Data Entry Clerk Salary. (United States). Median pay for Data Entry Clerks in the United States lies in the neighborhood of $11.88 per hour. Compensation ranges from $9.10 per hour on the lower end to $15.66 on the higher end. Location is the biggest factor affecting pay for this group, followed by tenure. Job satisfaction for Data Entry Clerks is high. Some workers in this field — just over two-fifths — are not awarded benefits.
To determine the national average wage index for 2013 at a level that is consistent with the national average wage indexing series for prior years, we multiply the 2012 national average wage index of 44,321.67 by the percentage change in average wages from 2012 to 2013 (based on our tabulated wage data). For retirement, eligibility is at age 62. If a person reaches age 62 in 2015, for example, then 2015 is the person's year of eligibility. We always index an individual's earnings to the average wage level two years prior to the year of first
This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Data Entry Clerk I in the United States that make less than that annual salary. View Data Entry Clerk I job description. View IT -- All Jobs by Salary Range: Categories: IT -- All, Administrative, Support, and Clerical, Entry Level. Industries: Aerospace & Defense, Biotechnology, Business Services, Chemicals, Construction, Edu., Gov't.
Average Data Entry Clerk salaries for job postings nationwide are 61% lower than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
Determination of the National Average Wage Index for 2013. To determine the national average wage index for calendar year 2013, we multiplied the 2012 national average wage index of 44,321.67 by the percentage change in average wages from 2012 to 2013, as measured by annual wage data we tabulated. For retirement, eligibility is at age 62. If a person reaches age 62 in 2015, for example, then 2015 is the person's year of eligibility. We always index an individual's earnings to the average wage level two years prior to the year of first
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Data Entry Clerk I in the United States is $28,884 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Data Entry Clerk I in the United States are expected to make less than $28,884. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $28,884. 1  Salary. View Data Entry Clerk I job description. View IT -- All Jobs by Salary Range: Categories: IT -- All, Administrative, Support, and Clerical, Entry Level. Industries: Aerospace & Defense, Biotechnology, Business Services, Chemicals, Construction, Edu., Gov't.
Data Entry Clerk III Job Description The following is a full job description for Data Entry Clerk III. Here are the requirements and responsibilities for Data Entry Clerk III along with statistics. 
Data Entry Clerk Salary. (Canada). A Data Entry Clerk earns an average wage of C$14.09 per hour. Pay for this job does not change much by experience, with the most experienced earning only a bit more than the least. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this field. Popular Skills for Data Entry Clerk. This chart shows the most popular skills for this job and what effect each skill has on pay.
Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at companies of all sizes and industries to present this range of annual salaries for people with the job title Data Entry Clerk I in the United States. View Data Entry Clerk I job description. View IT -- All Jobs by Salary Range: Categories: IT -- All, Administrative, Support, and Clerical, Entry Level. Industries: Aerospace & Defense, Biotechnology, Business Services, Chemicals, Construction, Edu., Gov't.