For General Office Clerks, 10 to 20 years of experience on the job amounts to an average salary of $28K. As General Office Clerks reach more than two decades on the job, compensation remains commensurate with experience; the average pay in this group is $30K. Pay generally varies between $8.93 per hour and $16.47. Geographic location is the biggest factor affecting pay for this group, followed by years of experience and the individual firm. Job satisfaction is reported as high by the vast majority of workers.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Court Clerk in the United States is $36,351, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Court Clerk in the United States are expected to make less than $36,351. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. 3  Benefits. Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at companies of all sizes and industries to present this range of annual salaries for people with the job title Court Clerk in the United States.
General Office Clerks in the United States can expect to earn an average of $11.97 per hour. Pay generally varies between $8.93 per hour and $16.47. Geographic location is the biggest factor affecting pay for this group, followed by years of experience and the individual firm. Job satisfaction is reported as high by the vast majority of workers.
A Bank Clerk earns an average wage of $13.24 per hour. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this career. 
Average Credentialing Clerk salaries for job postings in United States are the same as average Credentialing Clerk salaries for job postings nationwide. 
Hotel, Motel, and Resort Desk Clerks have the highest salaries in Hawaii, where they can earn average pay levels of close to about $33900. People working these jobs can obtain the highest salaries in Educational Services, where they can receive average pay of $27490. The national wage distribution is shown below. To overlay local salaries for a Hotel, Motel, or Resort Desk Clerk, please select your state. 
Average Clerk salaries for job postings in United States are the same as average Clerk salaries for job postings nationwide. 
Accounting Clerk Salary. Accounting Clerk average salary is $30,104, median salary is $30,000 with a salary range from $20,000 to $52,000. Accounting Clerk salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. 
For those looking to make money, General Office Clerks in San Francisco enjoy an exceptional pay rate, 35 percent above the national average. General Office Clerks will also find cushy salaries in Washington (+30 percent), Chicago (+16 percent), Dallas (+12 percent), and Los Angeles (+10 percent). Pay generally varies between $8.93 per hour and $16.47. Geographic location is the biggest factor affecting pay for this group, followed by years of experience and the individual firm. Job satisfaction is reported as high by the vast majority of workers.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical General Clerk I in the United States is $28,993 so 50% of the people who perform the job of General Clerk I in the United States are expected to make less than $28,993. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $28,993. Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at companies of all sizes and industries to present this range of annual salaries for people with the job title General Clerk I in the United States.