Your body can only use a certain amount of protein each day. If you take in too much protein, you may gain weight. Each gram of protein has 4 calories. If you take in 100 grams of protein, but your body can only use 50 grams of it, your body will store the extra 200 calories’ worth of protein as fat. Some people believe that all foods move through the small intestines in 2–3 hours. Thus, they believe, even if you ate even the fastest type of protein that can be absorbed at a rate of 8–10 grams per hour, you could only absorb 25–30 grams of protein in one meal.
I am much harder than 3 weeks ago! The experts also say that if your body doesn't absorb the protein it will be stored as fat or wasted through urination. And I have read that the body cannot absorb more than 50 grams of protein per meal. Not in all cases. I read an article on WebMD, which stated approximately .36 grams of protein per pound of body weight is enough. I weigh 200 pounds, so my intake should be around 70 grams of protein per day. You're taking 300 grams per day. Several doctors told me too much protein is a bad thing.
3. Hey Folks, Your body can digest as much protein as you can consume, but the caveat here is that the process simply takes that much longer. There's no tried and true rule as to a given amount, though 15-20 grams is really all you need post-exercise.
A person who rarely exercises needs half that amount -- about 0.37 grams per pound of body weight per day. Regarding how much protein can be digested and absorbed in the intestine at one time, there really is no maximum amount. However, the body will only use what it needs – 0.75 grams per pound of weight for a body builder. When we eat high amounts of protein, the body (especially the kidneys) needs to work hard to get rid of all the nitrogen in proteins. Too much dietary protein can have adverse consequences.
Scientific American presents Nutrition Diva by Quick & Dirty Tips. Scientific American and Quick & Dirty Tips are both Macmillan companies. Nutrition Diva reader Thomas writes: Some people claim that the body can't absorb more than 20-30 grams of protein at a time. Others insist that your body utilizes all the protein you take in. 
Absorption Rate. Amino acids are absorbed at the rate of 1.3 grams to 10 grams an hour, according to a report in the “International Journal of Sport Nutrition and Exercise Metabolism” in April 2006. A large percentage is absorbed because partially digested food is in the small intestine for hours. Women should consume 46 grams of protein daily, and men need 56 grams, as long as they’re not involved in athletic activities. For power and endurance athletes, protein recommendations range from 84 grams to 119 grams daily for men and 66 grams to 94 grams for women, according to the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics.
As you can see, it’s impossible to put a cap on how much protein your body can absorb in one meal. It’s definitely a hell of a lot more than the 20–30 grams that some people claim. You probably also noticed that protein timing isn’t as important as some people think, either. Some people believe that all foods move through the small intestines in 2–3 hours. Thus, they believe, even if you ate even the fastest type of protein that can be absorbed at a rate of 8–10 grams per hour, you could only absorb 25–30 grams of protein in one meal.
This would suggest, at first glance, that the original “30 grams of protein per sitting” figure is close to correct. If you can only absorb, say, 7 grams of protein per hour, and the bolus of digested protein and other foods takes 4 to 5 hours to wind its way through the intestine, you’re gonna absorb maybe 28-35 grams. http://www.marksdailyapple.com/protein-amounts-in-food/. I weight 200 lb. so I need to consume at least 200 grams of protein per day. But if my body can only absorb 7 grams per hour, the most I can absorb in a day – 24 hours – is 168 grams (24*7).
Cooked steak on a cutting board. Photo Credit nvelichko/iStock/Getty Images. The optimum amount of protein per meal for muscle building -- about 30 grams, according to one study -- is sometimes quoted as the maximum amount you can absorb, but the two are not related. Women should consume 46 grams of protein daily, and men need 56 grams, as long as they’re not involved in athletic activities. For power and endurance athletes, protein recommendations range from 84 grams to 119 grams daily for men and 66 grams to 94 grams for women, according to the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics.