There is no consensus on a definition of “local” or “local food systems” in terms of the geographic distance between production and consumption. But defining “local” based on marketing arrangements, such as farmers selling directly to consumers at regional farmers’ markets or to schools, is well recognized. 
noun. The definition of local is relating to a particular space or place or serving only a small portion of something. 1  An example of local used as an adjective is a local mall which means the mall nearby where someone lives
Full Definition of LOCAL. 1. : characterized by or relating to position in space: having a definite spatial form or location. 2. a: of, relating to, or characteristic of a particular place: not general or widespread b: of, relating to, or applicable to part of a whole. 3. 
local. 1  relating to place. 2  of, characteristic of, or confined to a particular place or district: items of local interest. 3  not broad; restricted; narrow: local outlook. 4  of or for a particular part or specific area of the body; not general. The definition of local is relating to a particular space or place or serving only a small portion of something. 1  An example of local used as an adjective is a local mall which means the mall nearby where someone lives
lo·cal. adj. 1. a. Of, relating to, or characteristic of a particular place: a local custom; the local slang. [ˈləʊkəli] adv → localement. A fifth of the drugs consumed in Japan are produced locally → Un cinquieme cinquième des drogues consommees Consommées au japon sont. produites localement local → politics n la vie politique locale local → time n heure. f locale
Local food or the local food movement is a movement which aims to connect food producers and food consumers in the same geographic region; in order to develop more self-reliant and resilient food networks, improve local economies, or for health, environmental, community, or social impact in a particular place. A locavore or localvore (the term is a neologism) is a person interested in eating food that is locally produced, not moved long distances to market. One common-but not universal-definition of local food is food grown within 100 miles of its point of purchase or consumption.
/ˈloʊkəl/. noun. plural locals. Learner's definition of LOCAL. [count]. 1. : a person who lives in a particular area, city, or town: a local person — usually plural. The restaurant is popular with (the) locals. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. 2. : a train or bus that makes all of the stops along its route — compare express. 3. 
1 An example of local used as an adjective is a local mall which means the mall nearby where someone lives. 2  An example of local used as an adjective is local government meaning the government that serves a town or a few towns. The definition of local is relating to a particular space or place or serving only a small portion of something. 1  An example of local used as an adjective is a local mall which means the mall nearby where someone live
Definition of LOCALLY. 1. : with respect to a particular place or situation. 2. : nearby. 3. : in the region of origin