Q. How long can I receive Medicaid after I am approved? A. You may receive Medicaid as long as you continue to meet the requirements. Your caseworker will review your situation every 6 to 12 months depending on what type of Medicaid you receive. You must report all changes in situation to your caseworker within 10 days. 
So, I was very organized. Unfortunately mother was killed in a rehab facility the day after she was approved but the State did take the application back 6 months for me so I was able to get 6 months back of the cash I had personally paid the facility..!!!!!! It depends on each state. Most have a 45 day review cycle from the day the NH or LTC submitted the paperwork to get an approval. One real sticky is not getting in all the items requested (on the list the NH provided to you) at the same time.
To get a Medicaid application you need to contact your local Medicaid office. You can find the number to your local Medicaid office by looking in the blue pages of your phone book or contacting the Social Security office in your area. In some states you don’t even need to do a mail in application. After you have signed up for Medicaid and sent in your application Medicaid has 30 days to approve it. Most of the time the applications go through much more quickly than that. Before sending your application in go over it carefully to be sure that you have not made any errors that could delay the process.
The longer you wait to apply, then, the later your date of eligibility will be. The Medicaid agency usually has 45 days to process your application. If the application requires a disability determination, the agency can take 90 days. But, it may take longer for the state to determine your eligibility if you do not provide the required documents on time. If Medicaid thinks that you are not cooperating, it can deny your application for failing to cooperate. That means you must contact a local office in your state to apply for Medicaid. To apply for Medicaid you will have to: 1  Fill out an application form. 2  Provide documentation to verify general and financial requirements.
After completing the application, it generally takes 7 to 10 days for the Medicaid process to complete and a decision made. You’d receive 2 letters in the mail; the first letter would state that Medicaid has received your application and to expect a decision to be made in 7 to 10 days. 
When to apply for Medicaid: The best time to apply depends on your medical situation, your marital status, and the complexity of your finances. If your finances are straightforward, the state may be able to process your application faster. That means you must contact a local office in your state to apply for Medicaid. To apply for Medicaid you will have to: 1  Fill out an application form. 2  Provide documentation to verify general and financial requirements.
Most have a 45 day review cycle from the day the NH or LTC submitted the paperwork to get an approval.One real sticky is not getting in all the items requested (on the list the NH provided to you) at the same time. This makes a huge differerence for the NH to turn in the paperwork to the state caseworker. It depends on each state. Most have a 45 day review cycle from the day the NH or LTC submitted the paperwork to get an approval. 
The best way to know how long a Medicaid application takes to be approved and finding out how to apply for Medicaid. There is always a wait anytime you fill out an application for anything. Medicaid applications are no exception to this rule. Fortunately, Medicaid applications normally go through pretty fast. After you have signed up for Medicaid and sent in your application Medicaid has 30 days to approve it. Most of the time the applications go through much more quickly than that. Before sending your application in go over it carefully to be sure that you have not made any errors that could delay the process.
Longer than we'd like, but it depends on the state where you live and their backlog. Expect at least a month and maybe as long as three months. You can call for updates, however, and to make sure no more documentation is needed. It depends on each state. Most have a 45 day review cycle from the day the NH or LTC submitted the paperwork to get an approval. One real sticky is not getting in all the items requested (on the list the NH provided to you) at the same time.
Top. 0 I work in hospice. My patient applied for medicaid in August and was approved for medicaid in August. My mother's lawyer applied for medicaid on June 15th for my mother who has alzheimer's and CHF and still has not received an answer. 