Prairie dogs (genus Cynomys) are mostly herbivorous burrowing rodents native to the grasslands of North America. The five different species of prairie dogs are: black-tailed, white-tailed, Gunnison's, Utah, and Mexican prairie dogs. They are a type of ground squirrel, found in the United States, Canada and Mexico.
Highly social, prairie dogs live in large colonies or towns, and collections of prairie dog families that can span hundreds of acres. The prairie dog family groups are the most basic units of its society. Members of a family group inhabit the same territory. The five different species of prairie dogs are: black-tailed, white-tailed, Gunnison's, Utah, and Mexican prairie dogs. They are a type of ground squirrel, found in the United States, Canada and Mexico.
Prairie dogs only live in one biome, and that is the Grassland. Prairie is Grassland, so the common/slang name of these gophers should be a dead give-away. No. Prairie dogs have four teeth. Two on top and two in the back that constantly grow. They have 8 molars, 4 on top in the back and 4 on the bottom in the back. You are referring to a CANINE dog, which is NOT a PRAIRIE DOG.
The prairie dogs range from Canada to northern Mexico. The white-tailed prairie dogs are found around the prairies of southern Montana to northern Arizona. Prairie dogs live together in a system of burrows called towns. These towns are broken up into family groups called coteries. The burrows usually have two or more entrances to bring in fresh air and for quick escapes in times of trouble. Prairie dogs don't like shrubby places because they can't see predators coming. The black-tailed prairie dog becomes mature at 2 years. They will mate in the early spring, from February to March. The female is pregnant for 34 to 37 days. There are 1 to 6 babies in a litter who are born blind and hairless.
Black-tailed prairie dogs (one of five prairie dog species) still live elsewhere in the western United States and in Mexico. Prairie dogs are grassland squirrels. They eat vegetation, mostly grass, which is 70 - 90% of their diet. Black-tailed prairie dogs do not hibernate, but may stay underground in bad weather. 
The major biomes include: Rainforest, Tundra, Taiga, Deciduous Temperate forest, Desert, Chaparral, Grassland, Freshwater, and Marine. The plant and animal species that live in each biome have special adaptations that help them survive the conditions of that biome. Many species are endemic to certain biomes, meaning they only exist in that biome and nowhere else. Some species are able to adapt to a wider variety of climatic and geographic influences.
Prairie dogs live in underground burrows, extensive warrens of tunnels and chambers marked by many mounds of packed earth at their surface entrances. Burrows have defined nurseries, sleeping quarters, and even toilets. Another prairie dog species, the white-tailed prairie dog, lives in the western mountains. These rodents do not gather in large towns but maintain more scattered burrows. All species hunker down in winter and burn the reserves of fat they have stored during more plentiful seasons.
Prairie dogs only live in one biome, and that is the Grassland. Prairie is Grassland, so the common/slang name of these gophers should be a dead give-away. 
Black-tailed prairie dogs, the best known of the five prairie dog species, live in larger communities called towns, which may contain many hundreds of animals. Typically they cover less than half a square mile (1.3 square kilometers), but some have been enormous. Another prairie dog species, the white-tailed prairie dog, lives in the western mountains. These rodents do not gather in large towns but maintain more scattered burrows. All species hunker down in winter and burn the reserves of fat they have stored during more plentiful seasons.
Prairie dogs are burrowing rodents that live in large colonies in the grasslands of central and western North America. Prairie dogs are considered a “keystone” species because their colonies create islands of habitats that benefit approximately 150 other species. They are also a food source for many animals, including coyotes, eagles, badgers and critically endangered black-footed ferrets.