A person looking to be a professional poker player has to know the game they will be best at to get a good hourly rate. A real professional poker player will play the poker game that will give them the most money per hour. Discipline is needed to be a professional poker player. You are the boss and need to be motivated to put in the hours in order to make a significant living. Many professionals have at least 6 months of living expenses saved up before trying to become a professional
A combination of patience, discipline, preparation, and a decent bankroll is needed in order to be a professional poker player. Once you have these things you can look for the poker games, in whatever medium, where you can make a living playing poker. A real professional poker player will play the poker game that will give them the most money per hour. Discipline is needed to be a professional poker player. You are the boss and need to be motivated to put in the hours in order to make a significant living.
What it Takes to be a Professional Poker Player. First of all you need the technical skills to be a winner in at least one form of the game. Second of all you need to be sure about it by putting in a large sample size. Thirdly, you need to be able to deal with the financial and emotional swings. Poker is a hard way to make an easy living. It's a popular poker quote and whoever was the first to say it was one very smart man. I think very few people have the ability to become a truly successful professional poker player. Notice the emphasis on successful.
Instructions. To be a professional poker player you have to put in the time. Generally a player has logged around 500 hours of poker play before deciding to become a professional. Many professionals track their statistics of how much they make per hour when playing in cash games or online. A real professional poker player will play the poker game that will give them the most money per hour. Discipline is needed to be a professional poker player. You are the boss and need to be motivated to put in the hours in order to make a significant living.
Being a professional poker player doesn’t mean having your name in lights: it means playing poker as your job. You don’t need to travel circuits around the world to be a professional poker player – you just need to make it your main source of income. If you find a place or two you jive with, stick with those places. It’s your bread and butter. 1  You will likely develop a reputation for yourself if you stick to one or two places.
The best poker players don't share much at the table. At most, maybe a joke or jab to lighten the mood. So it was a treat when a trio of World Series of Poker veterans sat down to talk about the game and their lives during the 15th International Gambling & Risk Taking Conference this week at Caesars Palace. 
1 Try to take other opportunities that come with being a pro, like teaching, writing a book, or starting a website. 2  This way poker is your life, but it doesn't depend on you playing 40 hours a week and always winning. 3  Life, even as a professional poker player, can be stressful. You don’t need to travel circuits around the world to be a professional poker player – you just need to make it your main source of income. If you find a place or two you jive with, stick with those places. It’s your bread and butter. 1  You will likely develop a reputation for yourself if you stick to one or two places.
That is, poker was my sole source of income (not to mention my main source of annoyance and frustration, with a heaping side of anxiety). During that year, I realized that the way the profession is portrayed in all the poker shows on TV is a steaming crock pot of bullshit. No, the way to make money at poker is to check your ego and play only at the limits you know you can beat. And when you feel ready to move up, you have to make sure you've built up a strong enough bankroll -- and properly fortified your balls -- to withstand a substantial losing streak. 1  Prev. 2  Page 1 of 2. 3  Next.
I start by explaining to them that a professional poker player is a small business owner, in the business of entertaining their customers (players who arent as skilled as they are). Most every successful business has a mission statement. Since this is a one man small business lets call it a vision statement. Yes, you may become the best player in that game, but until you have proven you can be, lets assume you are still in the learning phase and shouldnt expect to jump out of the gate and be the best player at the table. Based on what Ive heard, the best players in that game may make as much as $30 an hour.