Blueberries, raspberries and blackberries are among the most nutritionally dense foods you can eat. Each berry contains a wealth of antioxidants, fiber, vitamins and minerals that improve the body's antioxidant capability and contribute to brain health.
Blueberries have more antioxidants—those magical molecules that can help prevent a host of maladies—than 40 other common fruits and vegetables tested. The antioxidant plant pigments that make blueberries blue guard against heart disease, cancer and age-related blindness and memory loss.
The following foods are superfoods in themselves, with each providing some form of nutritional benefit, including antioxidants, fiber, and protein. You don’t have to essentially eat all five foods every day, but incorporating one, some, or all of these healthy foods into your regular diet will do you good. It’s also important to note that everyone’s eating patterns vary, and depends heavily on your age, if you’re male or female, and how much you exercise.
That’s where we come in. We’ve compiled a list of 10 foods you should be eating every day. If you don’t consume anything else on a regular basis, do your best to incorporate these foods into your diet….
Web site Best Life suggests eight foods that you should eat every day to ensure you've hit all your nutritional bases. In short, the list looks like this: spinach, yogurt, tomatoes, carrots, blueberries, black beans, walnuts, and oats.
The top three foods that you should eat every day are leafy greens, clean and lean proteins and water.
Almonds are high in the heart-healthy oleic acid that is responsible for many health benefits including a better memory. Almonds are high in fiber and protein and because they are so crunchy, just one ounce will go a long way compared to other nuts. Blueberries. 10 Foods You Should Eat Every Day:
Here are five super foods that you should be having every day: 1) Water. Our bodies need water to live. Water flushes toxins out of our vital organs and carries nutrients to our cells.