The United Nations Treaty Handbook defines a MOU (Memorandum of Understanding) as follows: The term memorandum of understanding (M.O.U.) is often used to denote a less formal international instrument than a typical treaty or international agreement. It often sets out operational arrangements under a framework international agreement. It is also used for the regulation of technical or detailed matters. A document intended to become a contract but which, if meeting other criteria, can be recognized, in law, as a contract. Related Terms: Treaty, Modi Vivendi. The term memorandum of understanding (M.O.U.) is often used to denote a less formal international instrument than a typical treaty or international agreement.
A memorandum of understanding (MoU) describes a bilateral or multilateral agreement between two or more parties. It expresses a convergence of will between the parties, indicating an intended common line of action. Whether or not a document constitutes a binding contract depends only on the presence or absence of well-defined legal elements in the text proper of the document (the so-called  four corners ). The required elements are: offer and acceptance, consideration, and the intention to be legally bound (animus contrahendi).
This memorandum of understanding is drafted for use in a two party 50:50 joint venture where both parties intend to contribute existing businesses in return for shares in a joint venture company (JVC). 3.3 Upon signing this memorandum of understanding, the parties intend to appoint [NAME OF VALUER] (Valuer) to conduct an independent valuation of the X Business and the Y Business on the basis of agreed instructions, a copy of which is annexed to this memorandum of understanding.
A memorandum of understanding relating to a two-party proposed 50:50 international joint venture, where both parties intend to contribute existing businesses to a newly formed joint venture company. 3.3 Upon signing this memorandum of understanding, the parties intend to appoint [NAME OF VALUER] (Valuer) to conduct an independent valuation of the X Business and the Y Business on the basis of agreed instructions, a copy of which is annexed to this memorandum of understanding.
A memorandum of understanding relating to a two-party proposed 50:50 international joint venture, where both parties intend to contribute existing businesses to a newly formed joint venture company. This memorandum of understanding is drafted for use in a two party 50:50 joint venture where both parties intend to contribute existing businesses in return for shares in a joint venture company (JVC).
It's a memorandum of understanding, a legal term that holds major implications for both international and domestic law (and maybe even a few cocktail-stained napkins, too). A memorandum of understanding (MOU) is, concisely, a written agreement. An MOU is sometimes confused with other, similar jargon, such as letter of intent or memorandum of agreement. For most legal purposes, however, all three of these terms amount to basically the same thing.
It may be used in situations where a legally enforceable agreement is not necessary. Depending on the circumstances, a Memorandum of Understanding may not be legally binding. A Memorandum of Understanding, or MoU, may be used by private, international, or public law as well as companies and government organizations. A MoU may be used since it is easier to complete as they do not require certain approvals or formalities. It identifies all involved parties by full legal name, address and business (if applicable). It should also state that the document is a memorandum of understanding, for it to avoid being mistaken for a contract or something more serious. Intention. This should outline the purpose of the agreement.
Guidance on Non-Binding Documents. Governments frequently wish to record in writing the terms of an understanding or arrangement between them without, by so doing, creating obligations that would be binding under international law. The language, titles, and techniques used for this purpose vary considerably