The mining industry in the US directly employs over 140,000 people, with annual salaries ranging from $30,000 to +$100,000 per year. The average miner makes $49,000/year. (MSHA 2001) In industries supporting the mining industry, another 160,000 people are employed in the US. Every American uses over 47,000 pounds of mined products each year. Mined minerals and materials made from those minerals account for over $33,000,000,000 each year. The USA is the 3d largest producer of gold, and second largest producer of copper in the world. 
What we mine & why we mine. Minerals are central to our modern way of life. They are essential to producing materials for construction and manufacturing: steel and cement cannot be made without coking coal. Along with coal, NSW has deposits of metallic minerals like gold, copper, silver, lead and zinc, and industrial minerals like mineral sands, clays and limestone. These minerals are owned by the NSW Government on behalf of the people of NSW.
MINERALS. Minerals, quite simply, are the building blocks for making rocks, and a rock is made up of one or more minerals. When you look at a rock and see different colors, those colors are minerals that make up that specific rock. Igneous rocks form when magma or lava cools and hardens into a rock. Magma and lava are rocks that are so hot they move like a liquid. Magma is molten rock that is underground; lava is molten rock that is above the ground – and that is the only difference between them.
Shape – Minerals form in certain shapes based on the elements that make them up. Some minerals, such as quartz, only form in one particular shape. Others, such as calcite, can be found in multiple shapes. Sometimes shape isn’t enough and you need to use other tests to help you identify a mineral. Igneous rocks form when magma or lava cools and hardens into a rock. Magma and lava are rocks that are so hot they move like a liquid. Magma is molten rock that is underground; lava is molten rock that is above the ground – and that is the only difference between them.
Mining produces a mixture of rocks that contain ore and other rocks that do not contain ore. So, the ore must be separated from unwanted rocks. Then, the minerals need to be separated out of the ore. The work is still not done once the mineral is separated from the unwanted materials. A mineral deposit that contains enough minerals to be mined for profit is called an ore. Ores are rocks that contain concentrations of valuable minerals. The bauxite shown in the Figure 3.26 is a rock that contains minerals that are used to make aluminum.
The minerals in our diet are essential for a variety of bodily functions. They are important for building strong bones and teeth, blood, skin, hair, nerve function, muscle and for metabolic processes such as those that turn the food we eat into energy. The minerals that are needed less and in smaller amounts are known as micro-minerals or “trace elements”. Children, pregnant and breastfeeding mothers and older people may need to adjust their intake depending on the type of mineral.
Probably not. We take many everyday items that are made from minerals for granted. But, before the products can be put on store shelves, minerals have to be removed from the ground and made into the materials we need. A mineral deposit that contains enough minerals to be mined for profit is called an ore. Ores are rocks that contain concentrations of valuable minerals. The bauxite shown in the Figure 3.26 is a rock that contains minerals that are used to make aluminum.
A mineral is a naturally occurring substance, representable by a chemical formula, that is usually solid and inorganic, and has a crystal structure. It is different from a rock, which can be an aggregate of minerals or non-minerals and does not have a specific chemical composition. 
Q1. Minerals are the materials of which rocks are made. A common example is granite, which is composed of the minerals quartz, feldspar, and mica. Each type of mineral has a distinctive composition and certain chemical and physical properties. 
Some coal mined in NSW, in the Southern coalfield, is used in coke-making, which is mainly used in blast furnaces that produce steel. This type of coal is called coking or metallurgical coal and is also used to make cement. Along with coal, NSW has deposits of metallic minerals like gold, copper, silver, lead and zinc, and industrial minerals like mineral sands, clays and limestone. These minerals are owned by the NSW Government on behalf of the people of NSW.