Buckwheat is actually a fruit seed that comes from a plant that is also called beech wheat, as well as silverhull and tartary, and whose genus/species name in Latin is Fagopyrum esculentum. Buckwheat belongs to the Polygonaceae family of plants. Two other well-known members of this family are rhubarb and sorrel. Buckwheat does not contain gluten like wheat does and therefore you can truly count on it to be wheat-free in every respect! Buckwheat makes a great side dish as well as the base for a cold grain salad.
Buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum) is a plant cultivated for its grain-like seeds, and also used as a cover crop. Common buckwheat was domesticated and first cultivated in inland Southeast Asia, possibly around 6000 BCE, and from there spread to Central Asia and Tibet, and then to the Middle East and Europe. Domestication most likely took place in the western Yunnan region of China.
The name 'buckwheat' or 'beech wheat' comes from its triangular seeds, which resemble the much larger seeds of the beech nut from the beech tree, and the fact that it is used like wheat. The word may be a translation of Middle Dutch boecweite: boec (Modern Dutch beuk), beech (see PIE * bhago -) and weite (Mod. Common buckwheat was domesticated and first cultivated in inland Southeast Asia, possibly around 6000 BCE, and from there spread to Central Asia and Tibet, and then to the Middle East and Europe. Domestication most likely took place in the western Yunnan region of China.
Soba /ˈsoʊbə/ (そば or 蕎麦) is the Japanese name for buckwheat. It is synonymous with a type of thin noodle made from buckwheat flour, and in Japan can refer to any thin noodle (unlike thick wheat noodles, known as udon). Soba noodles are served either chilled with a dipping sauce, or in hot broth as a noodle soup.
Consider cream of buckwheat for a nutritious breakfast porridge. Toasted buckwheat, known as Kasha, is a popular dish in Eastern Europe, and the famous Japanese Soba noodles are made with buckwheat, however, beware, because these noodles commonly contain wheat flour. The flavor of buckwheat is robust and people tend to either love it or hate it from first taste. Buckwheat comes in the form of groats or kernels that can be used creatively in a variety of recipes ranging from soups and casseroles to desserts and entrees.
Buckwheat, which is commonly found in raw food diet recipes, has a slightly deceptive name that can easily cause confusion. Buckwheat is not wheat, nor is it related to wheat. Like many of the other so-called whole grains , buckwheat is not technically a grain nor a cereal. So where does it come from? Buckwheat is derived from the seeds of a flowering plant. Several other foods typically thought of as whole grains, including quinoa, are actually seeds and not grains as well.
First, the name. The word buckwheat is said to come from the Anglo-Saxon words boc (beech) and whoet (wheat) because the seed resembled a small beech nut and was similar in size to a wheat kernel. Second, buckwheat is listed on a few US celiac foods to avoid lists, sometimes without explanation.
Indigenous to Russia, buckwheat is not a cereal grain as one might suspect, but rather an herb plant with edible, triangular seeds. The flavor of buckwheat is robust and people tend to either love it or hate it from first taste. Buckwheat comes in the form of groats or kernels that can be used creatively in a variety of recipes ranging from soups and casseroles to desserts and entrees. Groats come in fine, medium, and course version
Despite the name, buckwheat is not related to wheat, as it is not a grass. Instead, buckwheat is related to sorrel, knotweed, and rhubarb. Because its seeds are eaten and rich in complex carbohydrates, it is referred to as a pseudocereal. Common buckwheat was domesticated and first cultivated in inland Southeast Asia, possibly around 6000 BCE, and from there spread to Central Asia and Tibet, and then to the Middle East and Europe. Domestication most likely took place in the western Yunnan region of China.
Not only is buckwheat not a type of wheat, it is not even technically a grain although in many places (including The World's Healthiest Foods book) it is referred to as a grain since it is enjoyed in a similar fashion to true grains. Two other well-known members of this family are rhubarb and sorrel. Buckwheat does not contain gluten like wheat does and therefore you can truly count on it to be wheat-free in every respect! Buckwheat makes a great side dish as well as the base for a cold grain salad.