Most microwaves have a poultry defrost setting, so use that if you have it. If not, a general rule to use is about 10 – 15 minutes per kilogram or 5 minutes per pound. Be sure to check your chicken often to ensure that it is thawing evenly and not overcooking or drying out. To thaw chicken faster, place it wrapped in a bowl of cold water in the sink. It is important that the water is cold, as warm water can encourage bacteria growth. Additionally, it’s important that the water be changed every 30 minutes to maintain the temperature of the water
The bag should be submerged in cold tap water, changing the water every 30 minutes so it continues to thaw. Small packages of meat, poultry or seafood — about a pound — may thaw in an hour or less. A 3-to 4-pound package may take 2 to 3 hours. For whole turkeys, estimate about 30 minutes per pound. 
Thawed chicken should be cooked as soon as possible. If not using the chicken immediately, store in the refrigerator and use within 24 hours of thawing. Thaw frozen chicken using one of three methods: in the refrigerator; in a cold water bath, changing the water every 30 minutes; or in the microwave. If using one of the last two quick-thaw methods, cook the chicken immediately. NEVER thaw chicken at room temperature. Cooked chicken could be good up to 4 days. Raw chicken is best used within 1 or 2 days. You should store the chicken in the coldest part of the refrigerator for best shelf life or put it in freezer if not used within that time frame.
Yes, you can thaw it in the fridge the night before, but if you need it right away, put the frozen chicken under SLOW RUNNING water (in whatever covering/ bag it was in is fine) -- sometimes I put a bowl underneath to catch some of the water and it defrosts it even faster. 
Thawing the chicken in cold water is a faster method than thawing in the refrigerator, but the proper precautions must be taken when using this thawing method. Fill the sink with enough cold tap water to cover the chicken and place the wrapped chicken in the water. The water should be changed every 30 minutes. Do not use warm water, even though it will thaw the chicken faster, it will also cause the growth of bacteria.
Store your thawed chicken in the refrigerator. Chicken that has been thawed can be safely stored in the fridge for 1-2 days. Once a chicken has been thawed it should not be refrozen. 1  Store your thawed chicken in the coldest part of your refrigerator. 2  This will keep your chicken bacteria-free for a longer amount of time. The standard rule says that 1 pound (0.453 Kg) of chicken takes 5 hours to defrost in a refrigerator. 1  Keep in mind that thawing a whole chicken in the refrigerator can take more than 24 hours.
How to Defrost Chicken. Three Methods: Thawing Chicken in the Refrigerator Thawing Chicken in the Sink Thawing Chicken in the Microwave. Chicken is a delicious addition to any meal and is among the most convenient forms of protein available. Defrosting chicken is easy, but must be done the right way. The standard rule says that 1 pound (0.453 Kg) of chicken takes 5 hours to defrost in a refrigerator. 1  Keep in mind that thawing a whole chicken in the refrigerator can take more than 24 hours.
Answer: If you thawed the chicken in the refrigerator, you don't have to cook it right away. Poultry that’s been defrosted in the fridge can be safely kept for an additional one to two days in the refrigerator before cooking, says the U.S. Department of Agriculture. You also can safely refreeze it within that same timeframe
A couple of things to keep in mind with this defrosting method: -Some areas of the fridge are colder than others, which could prolong the thawing process. -After thawing in the fridge, poultry, ground meat and stew meat will stay good in the fridge for 1-2 days. Red meat cuts will stay good for up to 3-5 days. -You can refreeze meat thawed in the fridge. You may lose quality, but it will be safe for consumption. 