Main » TERM » R ». Reimage is the process of removing all software on a computer and reinstalling everything. A reimage is necessary if your operating system becomes damaged or corrupted. You may also need to reimage if your system is plagued with spyware problems. The word reinstall is often used in place of reimage.
A: Reimage Repair is a repair utility that can help fix the Windows operating system from damages caused by viruses and malware without the user having to reinstall Windows. ___________________. Of course, your success will depend on what type of problem you’re having with your computer. 
Overview. Reimage Repair is a program developed by Reimage. The most used version is 1.8.1.4, with over 98% of all installations currently using this version. A scheduled task is added to Windows Task Scheduler in order to launch the program at various scheduled times (the schedule varies depending on the version)
Reimage (often referred to as Reimage virus or Reimageplus) is a publisher of multiple computer security programs, browser attachments, and other products including Reimage PC Repair, Reimage Smartbar, Reimage Community Smartbar, Reimage Customized Web Search, and others. Furthermore, if you notice Reimage ads while browsing the web it is likely that your computer is infected with adware. A lot of different variants of adware are known to promote products developed by this publisher.
Step 3: Remove Reimage virus with Malwarebytes. 1. Download and install the free or full edition of Malwarebytes Anti-Malware. The full edition of this program enables real-time protection to block malware and unwanted programs from infecting your computer, while the free version is only a free scan and removal tool. 2. Furthermore, if you notice Reimage ads while browsing the web it is likely that your computer is infected with adware. A lot of different variants of adware are known to promote products developed by this publisher.
The Reimage program specializes in Windows repair. It scans and diagnoses, then repairs, your damaged PC with technology that not only fixes your Windows Operating System, but also reverses the damage already done with a full database of replacement files. 
Reimage is marketed as a 'PC optimization' software program that works by cleaning the PC's registry whose purpose is to remove redundant items from the Windows registry. Reimage Express is the powerful tool that scans, diagnoses and then fixes PC problems with powerful, patented technology. More than a PC optimizer, registry fix and antivirus tool for your PC, with Reimage Express, both you and your PC benefit.
Reimage is the only repair-in-place Windows repair service, but at $69.95 per year, you should try other solutions first. By Edward Mendelson Reimage is a unique Windows repair service that performs feats which no other maintenance software even attempts. When you use it to repair your system, it phones home to its huge repository of Windows files, and downloads and replaces or installs any Windows files that are damaged or missing from your system. 