Extremely basic electrical repair. This is how I repaired The female end of my 100 foot extension cord. This would be the same process to repair the male end eccept you would use an opposte plug end. 1  Howto & Style. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
You can shower and wash and style your hair just like always. To do this, you will need 3 items: 1  A jar of L&B Silicone Copper Micro Ring / Beads the same color as your hair or darker. 2  Go here to find them. 3  An Installation Tool Kit (the L&B Deluxe or Basic Kit). 4  Go here to find them. 5  A L&B 9-Piece Extension Set. 1 The extensions have a tip called and I-Tip which is shaped like a shoe-lace tip and is threaded into the micro ring. 2  The ring is then clamped shut with the closing tool. 3  Finished! 4  Strand by Strand, the method that looks and moves more naturally than any other method.
Favored by professional Stylists. 1  Instead of gluing the extensions onto your own hair strand...the Micro Ring System simply uses small beads, or rings, to attach the extention to your own hair! 2  The extensions have a tip called and I-Tip which is shaped like a shoe-lace tip and is threaded into the micro ring. 1 The extensions have a tip called and I-Tip which is shaped like a shoe-lace tip and is threaded into the micro ring. 2  The ring is then clamped shut with the closing tool. 3  Finished! 4  Strand by Strand, the method that looks and moves more naturally than any other method.
Wood furring strips typically measure 1 x 2 or 1 x 3. They can be laid out perpendicular to studs or joists and nailed to them, or set vertically against an existing wall surface. The spacing between the strips depends on the type of finishing material. Wider spacing is typically used behind the heavy boards that support ceramic tiles.
The concept of attaching a ceiling fan extension sleeve is pretty much the same to most ceiling fans. You'll have a better understanding on how to easily attach a ceiling fan extension sleeve......once you watch this video. 
Two Methods: Preparation Glue the Hair Extensions. Not everyone inherits a head full of long, lush hair. To add length, volume or color to your natural hair, you can add natural or synthetic hair extensions. Follow this guide to glue hair extensions safely and effectively. 1 Remove your extensions every 2 to 3 weeks. 2  Use a bonding glue remover or an oil sheen to make removal easier. 3  You can reapply them and reuse them as long as they maintain their quality. 4  Wash your hair, including the extensions, about every 3 days. 5  Scrub gently and make sure to clean your scalp in between the wefts.
Vertical, metal furring is applied to the wall to create a channel and receive the siding material. In construction, furring (furring strips) are thin strips of wood or metal to level or raise surfaces of another material such as to prevent dampness. Furring refers to the process of installing the strips and to the strips themselves. They can be laid out perpendicular to studs or joists and nailed to them, or set vertically against an existing wall surface. The spacing between the strips depends on the type of finishing material. Wider spacing is typically used behind the heavy boards that support ceramic tiles.
Furfix Wall Starter. The second method is using a Furfix Wall Starter. Furfix Wall Starter is basically like a crocodile clip attaching the main house to the extension. Furfix Wall Starter is added for every three rows of bricks. If the location of the drains permits, a drain pipe is often strategically placed between the two buildings as to hide the mortar joint. Customers choosing Furfix Wall Starter over Toothing-in method is often down to budget.
Toothing-in the brick work. The first method is known in the trade as 'Toothing-in' or 'Toothing-out'. This method involves hacking away every other brick in the main building at the point you want to join the extension wall to and then make a seamless connection from the main building with the house extension. If the location of the drains permits, a drain pipe is often strategically placed between the two buildings as to hide the mortar joint. Customers choosing Furfix Wall Starter over Toothing-in method is often down to budget.
1 Instead of gluing the extensions onto your own hair strand...the Micro Ring System simply uses small beads, or rings, to attach the extention to your own hair! 2  The extensions have a tip called and I-Tip which is shaped like a shoe-lace tip and is threaded into the micro ring. 1 The extensions have a tip called and I-Tip which is shaped like a shoe-lace tip and is threaded into the micro ring. 2  The ring is then clamped shut with the closing tool. 3  Finished! 4  Strand by Strand, the method that looks and moves more naturally than any other method.