The Adriatic is the northernmost arm of the Mediterranean Sea, extending from the Strait of Otranto (where it connects to the Ionian Sea) to the northwest and the Po Valley. The countries with coasts on the Adriatic are Italy, Croatia, Albania, Montenegro, Bosnia-Herzegovina, and Slovenia. The The Adriatic Sea is a body of water separating the Italian Peninsula from the Balkan peninsula and the Apennine Mountains from the Dinaric Alps and adjacent ranges.
Adriatic Sea. The Adriatic Sea is a part of the Mediterranean Sea positioned between the eastern coastline of Italy, and countries of the Balkan Peninsula, from Slovenia, south through Croatia. Montenegro, and on to Albania. The southern boundary of the sea ends in the Strait of Otranto between Albania and Italy's Salento Peninsul
The Adriatic Sea /ˌeɪdriˈaetɨk/ ˌeɪdriˈætɨk is a body of water separating The Italian peninsula from The balkan peninsula and The Apennine mountains from The Dinaric alps and adjacent. ranges The Adriatic is the northernmost arm of the Mediterranean Sea, extending from the Strait of Otranto (where it connects to the Ionian Sea) to the northwest and the Po Valley. The countries with coasts on the Adriatic are Italy, Croatia, Albania, Montenegro, Bosnia-Herzegovina, and Slovenia.
The map of Italy looks like a boot. Four different seas surround the peninsula in the Mediterranean Sea from three sides: The Adriatic Sea in the east, the Ionian Sea in the south, and the Ligurian Sea and the Tyrrhenian Sea in the west. 
The Adriatic Sea or known as the Sea of Adrias in New Testament times was located between Italy on the West and Dalmatia, Macedonia and Achaia on the East, and on the South it extended into the central part of the Mediterranean Sea between the islands of Crete and Malta. Adriatic Sea in Smith's Bible Dictionary. Adria More properly A'drias the Adriatic Sea. Ac 27:27 The word seems to have been derived from the town of Adria, near the Po. In Paul's time it included the whole sea between Greece and Italy, reaching south from Crete to Sicily.
Italy is separated from Eastern Europe by a baylike arm of the Mediterranean Seathe Adriatic Sea. It was named for Adria, which was a flourishing port during Roman times. About 500 miles (800 kilometers) long, the Adriatic Sea has an average width of about 100 miles (160 kilometers). Its maximum ... 
Croatia shares a maritime border with Italy in the Adriatic Sea.. The map shows Croatia with cities, towns, expressways, main roads and streets. To find a location use the form below. To view just the map, click on the Map button. 
The Adriatic Sea is a semi-enclosed sea, bordered in the southwest by the Apennine or Italian Peninsula, in the northwest by the Italian regions of Veneto and Friuli-Venezia Giulia, and in the northeast by Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Montenegro, and Albania —the Balkan peninsula. The Adriatic is the northernmost arm of the Mediterranean Sea, extending from the Strait of Otranto (where it connects to the Ionian Sea) to the northwest and the Po Valley. The countries with coasts on the Adriatic are Italy, Croatia, Albania, Montenegro, Bosnia-Herzegovina, and Sloveni
Map of the Roman Empire-Sea of Adria. Sea of Adria. J-4 on the Map. Ancient Sea of Adria-The ancient Adriatic Sea and also the waters south of it. It was mentioned in the Bible in Acts 27:27. The Sea of Adria separated Italy from Illyricum, Dalmatia and Epeirus, and its southern portion is connected to the Ionian Sea. Ancient writers spoke of this sea as a place of sudden storms