What are the differences between lab-grown and mined diamonds? One is created in weeks in a precisely controlled laboratory environment and the other grows beneath the earth for centuries. Otherwise, lab-grown diamonds and mined diamonds are chemically, physically and optically identical. HPHT is sometimes used to improve the color of mined or lab-grown diamonds. Our proprietary CVD process allows us to produce stunning diamonds in color and size combinations that are seldom found in mines, such as fancy color pink diamonds that are prized for fine jewelry. SEE OUR SPECIAL GROWTH CHAMBER.
Synthetic diamond is also widely known as HPHT diamond or CVD diamond after the two common production methods (referring to the high-pressure high-temperature and chemical vapor deposition crystal formation methods, respectively). For economic reasons, the growth of most synthetic diamonds is terminated when they reach a mass of 1 carat (200 mg) to 1.5 carats (300 mg). In the 1950s, research started in the Soviet Union and the US on the growth of diamond by pyrolysis of hydrocarbon gases at the relatively low temperature of 800 °C.
Visually beautiful diamonds aren't exclusively sourced from the earth. Introducing the Lab-Grown E3 diamond. Every E3 diamond is grown in a laboratory and possesses the same exceptional color, clarity, beauty and brilliance of a quality mined diamond found in nature. With this evolutionary process, this eco-friendly diamond is environmentally responsible and guaranteed conflict free. Each E3 diamond is laser-inscribed with an IGI certificate number. Only the most exquisite lab-grown diamonds will earn the E3 name.
HPHT, used since the 1950s, puts a pure, solid carbon source under high pressure and high temperature. In the presence of a catalyst, the pressurized and heated carbon crystalizes into diamond. HPHT is sometimes used to improve the color of mined or lab-grown diamonds. Our proprietary CVD process allows us to produce stunning diamonds in color and size combinations that are seldom found in mines, such as fancy color pink diamonds that are prized for fine jewelry. SEE OUR SPECIAL GROWTH CHAMBER.
You won't be able to tell the difference between a lab-grown diamond and a mined diamond. If you go to the legitimate sources, you'll find that their gems are essentially the same as mined diamonds. The gems have the same physical and chemical properties as mined diamonds. Where to buy. Currently, the leader in the lab-grown diamond industry seems to be Gemesis. You can order diamond jewelry on its website, or you can also opt to order loose stones. To all ring shoppers, here's a basic guide to buying an engagement ring if you have no clue where to start.
cultured diamonds. Lab created diamonds, also known as cultured diamonds, are grown in highly controlled laboratory environments using advanced technological processes that duplicate the conditions under which diamonds naturally develop when they form in the mantle, beneath the Earth’s crust. 
Mined Diamonds. Lab-grown diamonds are chemically, physically and optically identical to mined diamonds. Scio Diamond’s technology offers the flexibility to produce lab-grown diamonds in size, color and quality combinations that are rare in mined diamonds. Scio Diamond creates high quality, single-crystal, Type IIa diamonds for the jewelry market and industrial applications. The company employs a patent-protected chemical vapor deposition (CVD) process in a precisely controlled laboratory setting to produce diamonds.
Editor’s note: The following is a summary of a presentation given at the 2014 JCK Show in Las Vegas. The various means of distinguishing colorless and colored synthetic gem-quality diamonds from natural diamonds is well documented in research results published over the past 30 years. A few companies sell CVD-grown synthetic diamonds in small quantities for jewelry purposes. Most CVD crystals are brownish or grayish, but if a tiny amount of nitrogen or boron is introduced into the chamber, yellow, pink-orange, or blue crystals can be created.
A newer method of creating synthetic diamonds, called chemical vapor deposition or CVD, involves growth at high temperatures in a vacuum chamber. Hydrocarbon gases, such as methane, are introduced into the chamber and broken down by means of an energy source, such as microwave plasma, to release their carbon atoms. A few companies sell CVD-grown synthetic diamonds in small quantities for jewelry purposes. Most CVD crystals are brownish or grayish, but if a tiny amount of nitrogen or boron is introduced into the chamber, yellow, pink-orange, or blue crystals can be created.
Synthetic diamonds of various colors grown by the high-pressure high-temperature technique. Synthetic diamond (also known as cultured diamond or cultivated diamond) is diamond produced in an artificial process, as opposed to natural diamonds, which are created by geological processes. For economic reasons, the growth of most synthetic diamonds is terminated when they reach a mass of 1 carat (200 mg) to 1.5 carats (300 mg). In the 1950s, research started in the Soviet Union and the US on the growth of diamond by pyrolysis of hydrocarbon gases at the relatively low temperature of 800 °C.