A Dr. Lawrence W. Gooss, DO, Family Medicine, answered on behalf of HCA Virginia. It takes about two days to get a cold after exposure to the virus. In this video, Larry Gooss, DO, a family practice doctor at Chippenham & Johnston-Willis Hospitals, explains how virus can continue to live on surfaces. You will typically begin to notice symptoms, such as a runny or stuffed-up nose, coughing or a scratchy throat about two or three days after you become infected with the virus that causes the common cold. Other symptoms of the common cold can include: sneezing, a fever, headaches, watery eyes and fatigue.
It is possible it could happen. After a dose of flu vaccine, it takes at least a week to become immune. If flu is in your community and you are exposed, it takes two or three days for symptoms to appear. So it is possible if you are exposed to flu to get sick before the vaccine has a chance to work. It gives people the impression the vaccine caused the flu.
Save. Flu symptoms can be seen as early as one day after exposure or as late as five days. Once symptoms occur, it is best to consult your doctor. The elderly and young children are more susceptible to the disease and are more likely to die from it. So early detection and treatment for them is critical. The flu is really called influenza and it is a very contagious infection of the lungs, throat and nose. Symptoms include muscle aches, fever, sore throat, runny nose, cough and headache. Because the flu has a tendency to change, it can be hard to treat and has caused pandemics in the past such as in 1918 and 1957.
There is an incubation period for most viruses and each virus may differ-but generally it takes 1-7 days or more for a flu virus to increase its load in your bloodstream to … the point where you feel sick. 
FollowingUnfollow SUCCESS! FollowingUnfollow. cspencer. 5 Answers. 85 Helpful Votes. A. It takes approximately 24-48 hours for initial symptoms to appear after exposure to the influenza virus. If you suspect you have the flu, seek medical treatment quickly. Tamiflu, if taken within the first 48 hours of symptoms occurring, can reduce the time it takes to heal and can reduce symptoms. 
Confidence votes 2.0K. There is an incubation period for most viruses and each virus may differ-but generally it takes 1-7 days or more for a flu virus to increase its load in your bloodstream to the point where you feel sick. You can get a flu shot any time, even with a cold, as long as you haven't had a high fever in the past 48 hours. However, it isn't a good idea to go out into public when you h … ave an active infection, so if you can wait until after you feel better, it will help prevent your spreading the cold to others.
Children may pass the virus for longer than 7 days. Symptoms start 1 to 4 days after the virus enters the body. Information about how long a person is contagious is available at How Flu Spreads. Fever, chills, fatigue, body aches, sore throat, and headache are common symptoms of flu. Not everyone with flu will have a fever. The flu can cause mild to severe illness, and at times can lead to death. The flu is different from a cold.
Symptoms usually appear 1 to 3 days after exposure. Influenza symptoms can include a sudden onset of fever, headache, chills, cough, sore throat, and body aches. Diarrhea is not common. Although most people are ill for less than a week, some people have complications and may need to be hospitalized. 