Daily bus services run to and from Ambala, Patiala, Delhi, Chandigarh and Jammu. Rs 450,000,000 is being spent to expand the Amritsar-Jalandhar stretch of G.T. Road to four lanes. In 2010, elevated road with four lanes connected to the National highway for better access to the Golden Temple has been started. Amritsar is situated 217 km (135 mi) northwest of state capital Chandigarh. It is near Pakistan, with the Wagah Border being only 28 km (17.4 mi) away. The nearest city is Lahore, the second largest city in Pakistan, located 50 km (31.1 mi) to the west
We tell you the approximate Car Rental with the car of your choice; for the road distance between Chandigarh and Golden Temple Amritsar!If you plan to take on Chandigarh to Golden Temple Amritsar distance on your own, you would want to know how much you will be spending on fuel. Check our Fuel Price Calculator, to estimate your trip cost. We have updated Petrol, Diesel, AutoGas and CNG prices across all major cities in India! Hence you might also want to know the Travel Time from Chandigarh to Golden Temple Amritsar Amritsar. This will help you estimate how much time you will spend travelling for the distance from Chandigarh to Golden Temple Amritsar.
Driving Direction from Delhi to Amritsar. Distance: 466 km. Driving Time: 10.00 hours. The best route to drive on from Delhi to Amritsar is NH 1, which takes around 10 hours, so it is advisable to start early morning. To drive out of Delhi, get onto GT Karnal Road and head towards NH 1
Along with this, we become aware of the Travel Time from Amritsar to Chandigarh is 4 hour(s) 5 min(s); without much hassle. The journey can be customized by adding the stop over for having food or may be staying overnight in case of long journeys. The Distance between Amritsar and Chandigarh is effortlessly accomplished when you have distancebetween.com with you, showing the detailed instructions, time and distance. The fuel cost calculator is helpful in calculating the amount of fuel that would be used while traveling from a cab or by your own car.
#14. Punjab Roadways and private buses run frequently from Chandigarh to Amritsar and the journey takes 7 hours. The Delhi Ambala Kalka rail line is well served by several day and overnight trains, including two Shatabdi services. I need to get from Chandigarh to Amritsar in as little time as possible. So naturally I looked to see if any trains were going between these cities, and was surprised to find that there are no direct trains between Chandigarh and Amritsar.
The detailed Road Map from Amritsar to Chandigarh is very compliant in the far-reaching expedition. The Distance between Amritsar and Chandigarh is effortlessly accomplished when you have distancebetween.com with you, showing the detailed instructions, time and distance. The fuel cost calculator is helpful in calculating the amount of fuel that would be used while traveling from a cab or by your own car.
The 12013/12014 Amritsar Shatabdi Express is a super fast express train of Shatabdi class belonging to Indian Railways that runs between Amritsar Junction and New Delhi in India. It is the fastest train on the Delhi – Amritsar sector. It has a sister train 12029/30 Swarna Shatabdi Express. It covers the distance of 448 kilometres in 6 hours 15 mins as 12013 Shatabdi Express (73.64 km/hr) & 6 hours 15 mins as 12014 Shatabdi Express (71.68 km/hr).
The convenience of learning about the distance between Amritsar to Chandigarh is very helpful while traveling, which is, 229 kms (142.00 miles) . The Distance between Amritsar and Chandigarh is effortlessly accomplished when you have distancebetween.com with you, showing the detailed instructions, time and distance. The fuel cost calculator is helpful in calculating the amount of fuel that would be used while traveling from a cab or by your own car.