As the frequency of stimulation increases, the force of contraction MATERIALS AND METHODS Measurement of Threshold Stimulus 1. Dependent Variable 2. Independent Variable 3. Controlled Variables Effect of Muscle Length on Contraction 1. Dependent Variable 2. How does increasing muscle fiber length affect force of muscle contraction See Table 6 Stimulation Frequency and Contraction Force See Graph Effect of Stimulation Frequency on Contraction Force 8. What was the force of contraction at a stimulation frequency of 22.5 9.
Discussion: The direct stimulation of the muscle required a higher voltage in order to get a contraction. This most likely occurs for two reasons. First is the fact that once a nerve reaches its threshold voltage, it perpetuates the action potential down the nerve to the muscle. Results: When the stimulating electrode was in contact with the sciatic nerve, the threshold voltage was 0.2 Volts. The maximal contraction was recorded at 0.6 Volts. When the muscle was directly stimulated, the threshold voltage was 0.8 Volts, and the maximal contraction was recorded at 1.7 Volts. The average latent period was .02 seconds, the average contraction lasted .05 seconds, and the average relaxation period was .085 seconds
Cells are specialized in their anatomy and physiology to perform different tasks. All cells exhibit a voltage difference across the cell membrane. Nerve cells and muscle cells are excitable. Their cell membrane can produce electrochemical impulses and conduct them along the membrane. In muscle cells, this electric phenomenon is also associated with the contraction of the cell. In other cells, such as gland cells and ciliated cells, it is believed that the membrane voltage is important to the execution of cell function. The origin of the membrane voltage is the same in nerve cells as in muscle cells. In both cell types, the membrane generates an impulse as a consequence of excitation. This impulse propagates in both cell types in the same manner. What follows is a short introduction to the anatomy and physiology of nerve cells. 
Simulation result for formation of inversion channel (electron density) and attainment of threshold voltage (IV) in a nanowire MOSFET. Note that the threshold voltage for this device lies around 0.45 V. The threshold voltage, commonly abbreviated as V th or V GS (th) , of a field-effect transistor (FET) is the minimum gate-to-source voltage differential that is needed to create a conducting path between the source and drain terminals. In a given technology node, such as the 90-nm CMOS process, the threshold voltage depends on the choice of oxide and on oxide thickness. Using the body formulas above, is directly proportional to, and, which is the parameter for oxide thickness. Thus, the thinner the oxide thickness, the lower the threshold voltage.
Aim: To determine what happens to the force of a muscle contraction as the muscle is stretched. 1 Stimulate the muscle with a pulse pattern of N=4 with a frequency of 1Hz, using a voltage determined in exercise 1 that will produce a contraction. Mark a contraction as “0mm”. 2 Use the adjusters on the ring stand to stretch the muscle 1mm using a handheld ruler and stimulate it as before. Skeletal muscle is intimately associated with the skeletal system and, combined, these muscles and bones are responsible for supporting and moving the body. While all skeletal muscle fibers (cells) have sarcomeres and the same banded appearance, different muscles can contract in different ways.
For an nMOS device at gate-to-source voltages above the threshold voltage ((V GS th) but still below saturation (less than fully on, (V GS − V th DS), the transistor is in its ' linear region ', also known as ohmic mode, where it behaves like a voltage-controlled variable resistor. In a given technology node, such as the 90-nm CMOS process, the threshold voltage depends on the choice of oxide and on oxide thickness. Using the body formulas above, is directly proportional to, and, which is the parameter for oxide thickness. Thus, the thinner the oxide thickness, the lower the threshold voltage.
What is the maximum force generated at the threshold stimulus 3. How does increasing voltage above threshold stimulus affect force development See Table 5 Muscle Length and Contraction Force See Graph Effect of Muscle Fiber Length on Contraction Force 4. What was the force of contraction at a muscle length of 7.0 mm 5. How does increasing muscle fiber length affect force of muscle contraction See Table 6 Stimulation Frequency and Contraction Force See Graph Effect of Stimulation Frequency on Contraction Force 8. What was the force of contraction at a stimulation frequency of 22.5 9.
The human nervous system consists of billions of nerve cells (or neurons)plus supporting (neuroglial) cells. Neurons are able to respond to stimuli (such as touch, sound, light, and so on), conduct impulses, and communicate with each other (and with other types of cells like muscle cells). Once the potential difference reaches a threshold voltage, the reduced voltage causes hundreds of sodium gates in that region of the membrane to open briefly. Sodium ions flood into the cell, completely depolarizing the membrane (b).
Discussion. 1  Explain why muscle contraction does not occur below threshold stimulus. 2  The maximum stimulation voltage used was 3  _____. Explain why force of contraction changes with muscle fiber length. 4  Compare the maximum force generated when stimulation frequency was increased with the maximum force generated at threshold stimulus. 5  Explain why 6  ... In 