Simon is a common name, from Hebrew שִׁמְעוֹן Šimʻôn, šimʻôn Meaning (He) god has.. Heard some authors consider it a Classical greek. Name commentators on The New testament question the origin of the, name assuming that it can be either a hellenised form of The Hebrew'shim, on or a Real greek. name
The name Simona is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Simona is: Snub-nosed. Hebrew Meaning: The name Simona is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Simona is: Loud. Italian Meaning: The name Simona is an Italian baby name. In Italian the meaning of the name Simona is: one who hears.
From σιμων (Simon) , the New Testament Greek form of the Hebrew name שִׁמְעוֹן (Shim'on) which meant he has heard. This was the name of several biblical characters, including the man who carried the cross for Jesus. However, the most important person of this name in the New Testament was the apostle Simon, also known as Peter (a name given to him by Jesus). Because of him, this name has been common in the Christian world.
English Meaning: The name Simon is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Simon is: Variant of a Hebrew name meaning 'hear; listen.' In the bible Simon was the name of two apostles including Simon Peter. Greek Meaning: 
Simon /si-mon/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced SYE-mun. It is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Simon is to hear, listen; reputation. Biblical: Simon was the name of two of the apostles, including Simon Peter.A common name from the Middle Ages through the 18th century. Orchestra conductor Simon Rattle; Latin American freedom fighter Simon Bolivar.iblical: Simon was the name of two of the apostles, including Simon Peter. 
Meaning of Simon. English name. In English, the name Simon means-Variant of a Hebrew name meaning hear; listen. In the bible Simon was the name of two apostles including Simon Peter.. Other origins for the name Simon include-English, Israeli, Hebrew.The name Simon is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-Variant of a Hebrew name meaning hear; listen. In the bible Simon was the name of two apostles including Simon Peter. Origin-English.
Simon is the English form of the Hebrew name Simeon which means ‘hearkening’. The name is borne by several characters in the Bible, in both the Old and New Testaments. Simeon was Jacob’s second-born son in Genesis, one of the eleven brothers of Joseph, and the one most responsible for selling him into slavery.
The name Simon is the Hellenized version of the name Simeon (in Greek: συμεων; in Hebrew: שמעון) and there are nine Simons mentioned in the New Testament:tymology of the name Simon. The Greek name Simon is an adjusted version of the name Simeon, and that name comes from the common Hebrew verb שמע (shama'), meaning to hear: Abarim Publications Theological Dictionary. Follow the link to learn all about: שמע.
The name Simon in the Bible. The name Simon is the Hellenized version of the name Simeon (in Greek: συμεων; in Hebrew: שמעון) and there are nine Simons mentioned in the New Testament: 1  One of the two first disciples of Jesus, later mostly known as Peter (Matthew 4:18).tymology of the name Simon. The Greek name Simon is an adjusted version of the name Simeon, and that name comes from the common Hebrew verb שמע (shama'), meaning to hear: Abarim Publications Theological Dictionary. Follow the link to learn all about: שמע.
In the Bible, Simon was the second son of Jacob and Leah and the original name of Saint Peter, as well as the name of several New Testament figures. Historically, Simon Bolivar is known as The Liberator of Latin America.