The difference between singular and plural nouns is simple once you know what to look for. Here, we take a look at singular and plural nouns, providing both singular nouns examples and plural noun examples to help you recognize plural nouns when you see them. What is a Plural Noun. The answer is a relatively easy one, as grammar goes. A plural noun is a word that indicates that there is more than one person, animal place, thing, or idea. When you talk about more than one of anything, you’re using plural nouns. When you write about more than one of anything, you usually use the same word, simply adding an s, es, or ies to the end
Most English nouns are very predictable (or regular) in the spelling of the plural form-you just add an 's' or 'es' which make 'regular' plural words. But there are always exceptions to the rule and these are referred to a 'irregular plural nouns! 1 If the noun ends with a ch, s, sh, x, or z add an 'es' to make it plural-examples: churches, boxes, witches, witnesses. 2  If the noun ends with a letter y and the letter before the y is a consonant. 3  change the letter y to a letter i then add es to make it a plural. 4  Examples: Sky to Skies & Army to Armies.
Contrast with singular. Although the English plural is commonly formed with the suffix-s or-es, the plural of some nouns (such as sheep) is identical in form to the singular (see zero plural), while some other nouns (such as dust) have no plural form. See Examples and Observations below. Also see:
An irregular plural noun is an irregular noun in the plural form. An irregular noun is a noun that becomes plural by changing its spelling in other ways than adding an “s” or “es” to the end of the word. This change can happen in a variety of ways. Below you’ll find examples and guidelines to help you. Examples of Irregular Plural Nouns. Some irregular nouns take on the plural form by first changing the last letter of the word before adding “s.” Words that end in “f” are a good example of this case. To make such a word plural, you change the “f” to “ve” and add an “s.”. Plural nouns that end in ves:
Plural of nouns typically denote a quantity other than the default quantity represented by a noun, which is generally one (the form that represents this default quantity is said to be of singular number). 
Singular Nouns. Of all the different types of nouns, learning to recognize singular nouns and understanding when to use them is hands down the easiest. There are no particular rules to follow…you don’t have to add letters to the end or change the spelling as you do with plural nouns and irregular plural nouns. Examples of Singular Nouns. If you look at one object and name it, you have an example of a singular noun. For example there is one lamp on my bookcase and one chair at my desk. In these examples the nouns lamp, bookcase, chair, and desk are all singular because they indicate only one.
Definition & Meaning. A Plural noun means more than one item. Examples of plural nouns are beds, boys, girls, books and cats. They are created by adding a letter 's' to the end of a word or by adding 'es' such as in churches, boxes or witches. 1 If the noun ends with a ch, s, sh, x, or z add an 'es' to make it plural-examples: churches, boxes, witches, witnesses. 2  If the noun ends with a letter y and the letter before the y is a consonant. 3  change the letter y to a letter i then add es to make it a plural. 4  Examples: Sky to Skies & Army to Armies.