The Victorian gold rush is also known as the Australian gold rush because it was the first major gold rush of Australia. A major find was first announced on 12 February, 1851, when prospector Edward Hargraves claimed to have discovered a goldfield in Bathurst, New South Wales. People came to Victoria from far and wide-one of the first Chinatowns in Australia, and the second in the whole western world, was found in Melbourne by the many Chinese who came to Victoria with the gold rush.
The Western Australian gold rush began with the first discovery of gold in the late 1890s. News of the gold spread as fast as the region’s wildfires and soon gold prospectors were arriving to seek their fortune and set up gold rush towns in the dusty landscapes of the Kalgoorlie, Goldfields and Murchison regions. 
Edward Hargraves did not specifically want to start a gold rush in  Australia. He was merely responding to the government's invitation  and incentives to find gold, to stem … the tide of Australians  leaving for the Californian goldrushes. Que … ensland also experienced a gold rush when gold was found in  Gympie, while Western Australia's gold rush came with the discovery  of gold in the Coolgardie and Kalgoorlie regions.
The Australian gold rushes were periods of significant immigration of workers, both more locally and from overseas, to areas which had discoveries of gold deposits. A number of gold finds occurred in Australia prior to 1851, but only the gold found from 1851 onwards created gold rushes. The Australian gold rushes changed the convict colonies into more progressive cities with the influx of free emigrants. These hopefuls, termed diggers, brought new skills and professions, contributing to a burgeoning economy.
Between 1851 and 1871, the Australian population trebled as thousands of migrants – from Britain, China, America, France, Italy, Germany and Poland – arrived in search of gold. The first discoveries of payable gold were at Ophir in New South Wales and then at Ballarat and Bendigo Creek in Victoria. 1851: Gold rushes in New South Wales and Victoria begin. In 1851, gold-seekers from around the world began pouring into the colonies, changing the course of Australian history. The gold rushes greatly expanded Australia’s population, boosted its economy, and led to the emergence of a new national identity.
The first gold rush in Australia began in May 1851 after prospector Edward Hargraves claimed to have discovered payable gold near Orange, at a site he called Ophir. Hargraves had been to the Californian goldfields and had learned new gold prospecting techniques such as panning and cradling. The Australian gold rushes changed the convict colonies into more progressive cities with the influx of free emigrants. These hopefuls, termed diggers, brought new skills and professions, contributing to a burgeoning economy.
The discovery of gold was officially announced in May 1851, and this is what started the gold rush in Australia. The first payable gold strike occurred at Ophir, not far from … Bathurst, New South Wales, when Edward Hargraves, assisted by John Lister, found Australia's first payable gold. Less than three months later, on 9 August 1851, Victoria had its first major gold strike, and this is when the gold rush really took off. Que … ensland also experienced a gold rush when gold was found in  Gympie, while Western Australia's gold rush came with the discovery  of gold in the Coolgardie and Kalgoorlie regions.
In January 1851, before Hargraves' find of gold in February 1851 at Summerhill near Bathurst in New South Wales which started the first Australian gold rush, George Hermann Bruhn had left Melbourne to explore the mineral resources of the countryside of Victoria. The Australian gold rushes changed the convict colonies into more progressive cities with the influx of free emigrants. These hopefuls, termed diggers, brought new skills and professions, contributing to a burgeoning economy.
The Australian gold rush was a large number of gold discoveries in Australia. Thousands of people came to Australia in the hope of finding a lot of gold and becoming rich. The rush started in 1851 when gold was found near Bathurst, New South Wales and ended with the last rush in 1893 to Kalgoorlie, Western Australia. At each place gold was easily found in rivers and creeks. Gold had been found in Australia before the 1851 gold rush. At first people would not believe the stories. A convict who found gold near Bathurst in 1823 was given 150 lashes with a whip as it was believed he must have stolen it.