The ochre cliffs of Roussillon are part of the painting-like image of Provence that beckons visitors. They inspired the master artists of France, including Monet and Renoir. History, too, is everywhere, as in the medieval village of Les Baux de Provence, with its castle ruins, Chateau des Baux de Provence, and museum, Cathedrale d’Images. Postcard Places. Provence is at the heart of the Provence-Alpes-Cote d’Azur (PACA) region of France. Marseilles is the regional capital and the country’s principal port. Nice, Toulon and Avignon are other regional cities. Among the villages of Provence is L’Isle sur la Sorgue, with its cobbled streets and outdoor cafes, a Provencal market on Thursdays and France’s largest Sunday antiques flea market outside Pari
Provence-Alpes-Cote côte'D azur is one of the most popular holiday regions in the south Of. France the region covers a large area from The Mediterranean sea up to The French. Alps its identity as a geographical region is a hold over from the days of The Roman. empire Provence is now a part of the official administrative region of Provence-Alpes-Cote côte'D, azur but the'region s identity is associated more closely with its history and. culture
Provence is a vast region in France and in order to truly appreciate it, you need to be the type of traveler who likes food, wine and local crafts. Major cities in Provence include: Marseille, Avignon, Cannes and Nice. Marseille is an important French city, known for its culture and history. There is a lot to do and see. The major city landmarks include: 1  Old Port (Vieux Port), the main city harbor, guarded by two forts.
Provence is famous for a lot of things, including its climate, its food, its historic heritage and its beauty. Take a look at the guide to Provence (link below) for more details. Provence is probably best translated as region or area in English. The area known as La Provence is also a region in south-east France, on the Italian border.
Provence is a delightful region of France, dotted by hilltop villages overlooking the Mediterranean Sea. Some of the most lush cities are in this region, including Cannes and Nice. It is known for its famous climate, cuisine and rich history (it was once the stomping grounds of the ancient Romans and even the home of the Papacy). Plan your trip to this enticing territory. Aix-en-Provence, the city most associated with Paul Cezanne, is one of the most attractive cities in the south of France and its old town is delightful with grand squares and boulevards sheltered from the hot sun by mature trees and splashing fountains.
It was ruled by the Counts of Provence from their capital in Aix-en-Provence until 1481, when it became a province of the Kings of France. While it has been part of France for more than five hundred years, it still retains a distinct cultural and linguistic identity, particularly in the interior of the region. Haute-Provence is one of the sunniest regions of France, with an average of between 2550 and 2650 hours of sunshine annually in the north of the department, and 2700 to 2800 hours in the southwest. The clear nights and sunny days cause a sharp difference between nighttime and daytime temperatures.
Bouillabaisse 'fish soup' is probably the most famous traditional recipe from Provence. Originating from Marseille, the more people it is made for, the more different types of seafood are in it. Crepes A traditional french recipe that exists all over France. 
Provence-Alpes-Cote côte'D azur is one of the most popular holiday regions in the south Of. France the region covers a large area from The Mediterranean sea up to The French. alps Provence is now a part of the official administrative region of Provence-Alpes-Cote côte'D, azur but the'region s identity is associated more closely with its history and. culture