NIDDM vs. IDDM. Diabetes mellitus is a disease in which the pancreas produces inadequate amounts of insulin, or in which the body’s cells fail to act appropriately to insulin. Type 1 diabetes is a disease in which the body produces too little insulin or no insulin at all. In most cases, Type 1 diabetes is considered to be an autoimmune disease, that is, a condition in which the body’s immune system goes awry and attacks the healthy tissues.
Insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM), also known as type 1 diabetes, usually starts before 15 years of age, but can occur in adults also. Diabetes involves the pancreas gland, which is located behind the stomach (Picture 1). The special cells (beta cells) of the pancreas produce a hormone called insulin. 
Type-1 diabetes is also known as Insulin-Dependent Diabetes Mellitus (IDDM), juvenile diabetes, because it is usually first diagnosed in children, teenagers, and young adults. Now it proves wrong, that type 1 diabetes does occur even during the adult age. 
Insulin Dependent Diabetes Mellitus or IDDM is an out-moded phrase meaning Type 1 Diabetes. Make your life easier by avoiding this term and use Type 1 Diabetes instead. The term is out of date because nowadays there is an increasing number of Type 2 patients who find they need to start to use insulin. 
IDDM: See also: Type 1 diabetes : » Introduction: Type 1 diabetes. » Symptoms of Type 1 diabetes. » Causes of Type 1 diabetes. IDDM: Diabetes mellitus characterized by insulin deficiency, sudden onset, severe hyperglycemia, rapid progression to ketoacidosis, and death unless treated with insulin. The disease may occur at any age, but is most common in childhood or adolescence.
IDDM may refer to: 1  Insulin-Dependent Diabetes Mellitus, now known as Diabetes mellitus type 1, an autoimmune disease resulting in the destruction of insulin-producing cells. 2  The term Insulin-Dependent Diabetes Mellitus is still widely used in Japan. 3  Integrated Diver Display Mask, an item of scuba gear. 1 Insulin-Dependent Diabetes Mellitus, now known as Diabetes mellitus type 1, an autoimmune disease resulting in the destruction of insulin-producing cells.
Diabetes mellitus type 1 (also known as type 1 diabetes, or T1D; formerly insulin-dependent diabetes or juvenile diabetes) is a form of diabetes mellitus that results from the autoimmune destruction of the insulin-producing beta cells in the pancreas. 
Report Abuse. IDDM means that the diabetic person is dependant upon injections of insulin to keep the glucose at normal (or near normal) levels. NIDDM means that the person's pancreas is still working and he or she can manage their diabetes with a controlled diet and/or oral medications. Best Answer: Persons with Type I DM formerly called IDDM do not produce an adequate supply of insulin, therefore they have to take insulin inorder to metabolise sugars.
Definition. Diabetes mellitus is a condition in which the pancreas no longer produces enough insulin or cells stop responding to the insulin that is produced, so that glucose in the blood cannot be absorbed into the cells of the body. Symptoms include frequent urination, lethargy, excessive thirst, and hunger. Insulin — A hormone or chemical produced by the pancreas, insulin is needed by cells of the body in order to use glucose (sugar), the body's main source of energy. Ketoacidosis — A condition due to starvation or uncontrolled Type I diabetes.