Teres major redirects here. For the beef cut, see shoulder tender. The teres major muscle (Latin teres meaning 'rounded') is a muscle of the upper limb and one of seven scapulohumeral muscles. It is a thick but somewhat flattened muscle, innervated by the lower subscapular nerve (C 5 and C 6). 
Freebase. Teres I. Teres I, was the first king of the Odrysian state of Thrace. Thrace had nominally been part of the Persian empire since 516 BC during the rule of Darius the Great, and was re-subjugated by Mardonius in 492 BC. 
Classified under: Nouns denoting body parts. Synonyms: teres; teres muscle. Hypernyms (teres is a kind of...): skeletal muscle; striated muscle (a muscle that is connected at either or both ends to a bone and so move parts of the skeleton; a muscle that is characterized by transverse stripes). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of teres): musculus teres major; teres major; teres major muscle (teres muscle that moves the arm and rotates it medially). musculus teres minor; teres minor; teres minor muscle (teres muscle that adducts the arm and rotates it laterally)
The teres minor is a slim, narrow muscle within the rotator cuff, located in the shoulder. It is involved in the external rotation of the shoulder joint. The other muscles composing the rotator cuff are the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and subscapularis. It connects the scapula to the humerus, along with the teres major and infraspinatus muscles, which lie on either side and overlap the teres minor. Along with the infraspinatus, the muscle keeps the head of the humerus in place where it joins with the scapula.
There are two teres muscles. The other one is the teres major muscle, a thick, flattened muscle that brings the arm toward the body and assists in extending it when the arm is in a flexed position. The teres major muscle also aids in rotating the arm but its function is just the opposite of the teres minor and other ... Click to read more below. The teres minor muscle rotates the arm laterally and assists in bringing it toward the body. As it draws the upper arm bone (humerus) up, it strengthens the shoulder joint
Anatomy and supply. The Teres major is a thick muscle of the shoulder joint. It originates at the dorsal surface of the inferior angle and the lower part of the medial border of the scapula, where you can easily palpate it. 
Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of teres muscle): musculus teres major; teres major; teres major muscle (teres muscle that moves the arm and rotates it medially). musculus teres minor; teres minor; teres minor muscle (teres muscle that adducts the arm and rotates it laterally).
Teres major. The teres major muscle is one of the six muscles within the scapulohumeral muscle group. The muscle is located on the underside of the upper arm, in the area between the shoulder and elbow. It has a flat shape and is supplied with nerves from the lower subscapular nerve
• TERES (noun). The noun TERES has 1 sense: 1. either of two muscles in the shoulder region that move the shoulders and arms. Familiarity information: TERES used as a noun is very rare. Hypernyms (teres is a kind of...): skeletal muscle; striated muscle (a muscle that is connected at either or both ends to a bone and so move parts of the skeleton; a muscle that is characterized by transverse stripes). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of teres):