Your loan doesn’t qualify. On the other hand, if you can prove that you have at least that much equity in your home, your lender should be able to drop your PMI payments, without you having to refinance your mortgage. Give your lender a call and ask what the procedure is to drop PMI. Posted on February 28, 2001 by Ilyce R. Glink. Q: I closed on my house in July, 1993. I want to know if I’m at the point at which the lender can automatically drop my private mortgage insurance (PMI). I’ve been told that if I’m at a loan-to-value ratio of 78 percent, or less, PMI can be dropped without refinancing.
Private mortgage insurance protects your lender in the event you can't make your payments and the lender forecloses your mortgage. If you've owned your home for awhile, and have accumulated enough home equity, you can ask your lender to remove the PMI coverage. If your loan to value ratio (LTV) was more than 80% when you bought your home, and you have a conventional mortgage loan, you're likely paying a monthly premium for private mortgage insurance or PMI.
How to Remove PMI From Your Mortgage. If you already have PMI on your mortgage, there are a few ways to remove it. First, you need to understand your home’s loan-to-value ratio (LTV), the difference between the amount of your loan and your home’s value. It’s easy to calculate your LTV: Simply divide your loan amount by the value.
You can ask the lender to remove the PMI from your mortgage. Purchasing a home with less than a 20 percent down payment usually means paying private mortgage insurance, or PMI. Without PMI, mortgage lenders would require larger down payments and fewer people would be able to buy their first home. Tip. 1  Another way to remove the PMI is to refinance into a loan that does not require PMI. 2  If you can remove the PMI and reduce your interest rate significantly, a refinance may be a better option. 3  Be sure to tell lenders that you want a loan without PMI when you request mortgage quotes.
1) Lenders have to give you a written statement explaining that you have PMI and when you'll be allowed to cancel it. 2) The lender must allow you to cancel PMI when your equity is 22% or more. 3) And you can ask for permission once your equity reaches 20%. There is a quick way to do this calculation: Multiply your current loan balance by 1.25. Your home has to be worth at least this much to legally get rid of the $40 to $120 premiums you pay every month. The 20% in equity can be earned by paying down the mortgage over time, appreciation, or home improvement. Or of course by refinancing your loan. Then the LTV (and PMI amount) is based solely on the appraised value and new loan amount, which makes a lot of sense if rates are lower now than your current rate, or if you PMI amount drops enough. Or you can consider re-structuring your loan so you will not have PMI
Mortgage insurance. Mortgage insurance reimburses the lender if you default on your home loan. You, the borrower, pay the premiums. Often known as private mortgage insurance, or PMI. 1 Get a new appraisal: Some lenders will consider a new appraisal instead of the original sales price or appraised value when deciding whether you meet the 20 percent equity threshold. 2  An appraisal generally costs $300 to $500.
To remove private mortgage insurance (PMI) that you pay on your mortgage loan, you must be up to date with your monthly payments. These rules apply to mortgages closed on or after July 29, 1999. Federal law generally provides two ways for you to remove PMI from your home loan: canceling PMI or PMI termination. You can also make this request earlier if you have made additional payments to reduce the principal balance of your mortgage to 80 percent of the original value of your home. There are other important criteria you must meet if you want to cancel PMI on your loan: 1  Your request must be in writing.