As a co-founder and longtime Chief Yahoo, Filo is the heart and soul of the company and in re-joining the board, he adds 19 years of deep and personal knowledge of Yahoo's business and culture to the conversation, Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer said in a statement. After Yang resigned as Yahoo CEO and from its board in 2012, Filo stayed on, serving as a key technologist directing the technical operations behind the company's network of Web properties. Shareholders will vote on the nominees at the company's annual meeting on June 25.
David Filo is an American businessman and the co-founder of Yahoo! with Jerry Yang. His Filo Server Program, written in the C programming language, was the server-side software used to dynamically serve variable web pages, called Filo Server Pages, on visits to early versions of the Yahoo! web site. … Read More. 
Yahoo co-founder David Filo nominated to return to board. The chief Yahoo is tapped to return to the board after an absence of 18 years, along with Charles Schwab and former Walmart CEO H. Lee Scott Jr. After Yang resigned as Yahoo CEO and from its board in 2012, Filo stayed on, serving as a key technologist directing the technical operations behind the company's network of Web properties. Shareholders will vote on the nominees at the company's annual meeting on June 25.
In a proxy filing Wednesday, Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) has nominated founder David Filo to the company's board of directors. The company also nominated Charles Schwab, founder of financial services firm Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW), and Lee Scott, former CEO of Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT), to its board. Filo and Jerry Yang, Yahoo's former CEO, founded the company in 1994, but Filo left the board in 1996.
He is currently on a leave of absence from Stanford's electrical engineering Ph.D. program. David Filo is a co-founder of Yahoo! . David, a native of Moss Bluff, La., co-created the Yahoo! Internet navigational guide in April 1994 with Jerry Yang and co-founded Yahoo! Inc. in April 1995
Update. David Filo is a co-founder of Yahoo!. David, a native of Moss Bluff, La., co-created the Yahoo! Internet navigational guide in April 1994 with Jerry Yang and co-founded Yahoo! Inc. in April 1995. Filo serves as a key technologist, directing the technical operations behind the company's global network of Web properties. David Filo is a co-founder of Yahoo! . David, a native of Moss Bluff, La., co-created the Yahoo! Internet navigational guide in April 1994 with Jerry Yang and co-founded Yahoo! Inc. in April 1995
Content preferences. In a proxy filing Wednesday, Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) has nominated founder David Filo to the company's board of directors. The company also nominated Charles Schwab, founder of financial services firm Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW), and Lee Scott, former CEO of Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT), to its board. Filo and Jerry Yang, Yahoo's former CEO, founded the company in 1994, but Filo left the board in 1996. He has assumed an advisory role at the company since the hiring of Marissa Meyer in 2012 as Yang's replacement
Two decades after cofounding Yahoo, David Filo is still helping to run the Web portal. As Chief Yahoo, he oversees technical operations at the Sunnyvale, Calif.-based company and rejoined the board in 2014 after an 18-year hiatus. He's also Yahoo's largest individual shareholder, with a 7.5% stake.
David Filo (born April 20, 1966) is an American businessman and the co-founder of Yahoo! with Jerry Yang. Filo was born in Wisconsin. At age six, he moved to Moss Bluff, Louisiana, a suburb of Lake Charles, Louisiana.