If current interest rates were to rise, giving newly issued bonds a yield of 10%, then the zero-coupon bond yielding 5.26% would not only be less attractive, it wouldn't be in demand at all.
Sooner or later, the Federal Reserve will have to raise interest rates, and this will affect you and every other investor in the United States. Regardless of when it happens, the Federal Reserve will begin increasing the federal funds rate from its current range of zero to 0.25%.
Understanding Yield and the Effects of Rising Interest Rates. Think of yield as the return provided by a fixed income investment. The yield of a bond is based on both the purchase price of the bond and the interest (or coupon) payments received each year. Yield is often the term used to describe long-term interest rates.
Now that we have an idea of how a bond's price moves in relation to interest-rate changes, it's easy to see why a bond's price would increase if prevailing interest rates were to drop. If rates dropped to 3%, our zero-coupon bond-with its yield of 5.26% - would suddenly look very attractive.
Currently, rising interest rates and expectations for economic recovery are impacting bond prices. As interest rates change, so do the values of all bonds in the marketplace. If you are thinking about buying bonds, or have recently bought some, you need to be aware of the effect of rising rates on your holdings.
The higher coupon payment will cushion the impact of rising rates, which means the investor takes less of a hit on price.The 4 percent coupon bond might lose 15 percent in value if rates go up 1 percent, whereas the 6 percent coupon bond might only lose 10 percent in value, Cummings says.
Now the specter of rising interest rates is looming large, even though the Fed isn't expected to actually raise the federal funds rate until 2015. Overall, bonds have shed 3.4 percent of their value, as measured by the Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index, which tracks a blend of corporate and government bonds.
So, if interest rates rise, each year a bond will mature that can then be reinvested in a bond paying a higher interest. On the other hand, if rates fall, only one bond is maturing that will have to be invested at the lower interest rate. The rest of the bonds are still paying the
Investing » Rising Interest Rates And Bonds. You've been warned -- for years -- about the impact of rising interest rates on bonds and what that might do to your portfolio. The impact is already being felt, and the Federal Reserve hasn't even done anything yet.