Hypertension, also known as high blood pressure, is a persistent elevation in blood pressure that taxes the heart. Over time, it can cause serious damage to the heart as well as other organs, such as the kidneys, brain, and eyes. 
Pulmonary hypertension means high blood pressure that is located in the lungs. Pulmonary hypertension is different from regular hypertension. In regular hyperten-sion (also known as high blood pressure), a person’s arteries throughout the body are constricted. In pulmonary hypertension, the blood vessels in the lungs become narrowed and the heart has to work harder to pump blood through them. 
High blood pressure, also known as HBP or hypertension, is a widely misunderstood medical condition. The organs in your body need oxygen to survive. Oxygen is carried through the body by the blood. When the heart beats, it creates pressure that pushes blood through a network of tube-shaped arteries and veins, also known as blood vessels and capillaries. The pressure --- blood pressure --- is the result of two forces
The correct answer is: • True. Explanation: High blood pressure, also known as hypertension, is the most common cardiovascular disease. Hypertension is the leading cause of strokes and a major cause of heart attacks. In the United States alone, approximately 73 million people have high blood pressure. 
Hypertension (HTN or HT), also known as high blood pressure or arterial hypertension, is a chronic medical condition in which the blood pressure in the arteries is persistently elevated. Hypertension is classified as either primary (essential) hypertension or secondary hypertension. About 90–95% of cases are categorized as primary hypertension, defined as high blood pressure with no obvious underlying cause.
A. Hypertension, also known as high or raised blood pressure, is a condition in which the blood vessels have persistently raised pressure, putting them under increased stress. Each time the heart beats; it pumps blood into the vessels, which carry the blood throughout the body. A. The higher the blood pressure, the higher the risk of damage to the heart and blood vessels in major organs such as the brain and kidneys. Hypertension is the most important preventable cause of heart disease and stroke worldwide.
A. High blood pressure, also known as hypertension, affects millions -- even children and teens. WebMD's High Blood Pressure Guide has all the information you need to understand and manage your blood pressure. Learn all about causes, symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention
Hypertension. WHO/C.Black. Hypertension, also known as high or raised blood pressure, is a condition in which the blood vessels have persistently raised pressure. Blood is carried from the heart to all parts of the body in the vessels. Each time the heart beats, it pumps blood into the vessels. 