Height of H.S. basketball hoops  There is no difference in the height of the hoop between high  school, college, and pro basketball. They all use the same 10-foot  height. …    Since a basketball is round, the height of the basketball would  also be its diameter. The diameter of a basketball is around 9  inches since there are minor differences in the size of basketball  used by organizations (FIBA, NBA, etc). 
Regulation Basketball Heights. The top edge of the rim stands exactly 10 feet above the playing surface. The bottom edge of a regulation backboard sits nine feet and six inches off the ground. The backboard itself measures 72 inches in width and 42 inches in height, making the total height of a regulation backboard 13 feet. A men's regulation basketball measures 29.5 inches in circumference and a women's ball measures 28.5 inches. Both genders shoot into an 18-inch diameter hoop at the regulation 10-foot height. 
It’s All in the Hoop. The basketball hoop attaches to the backboard. The NBA requires that this backboard measure 6 feet by 3.5 feet and have a 2-inch wide rectangle centered behind the ring, measuring 24 inches by 18 inches. The hoop must be 18 inches in diameter with a 15- to 18-inch white cord net. 
In most elementary schools, the gyms have hoops as of 10 ft., the regulation height of a basketball hoop for the NBA. Outside on the blacktop, the hoops usuall … y range from about 9ft. to the hoops that are too high at 11ft. Confidence votes 372. Height of H.S. basketball hoops There is no difference in the height of the hoop between high school, college, and pro basketball. They all use the same 10-foot height. Since a basketball is round, the height of the basketball would also be its diameter. The diameter of a basketball is around 9 inches since there are minor differences in the size of basketball used by organizations (FIBA, NBA, etc)
Basketball is a sport played by two teams of five players on a rectangular court. The objective is to shoot a ball through a hoop 18 inches (46 cm) in diameter and 10 feet (3.048 m) high mounted to a backboard at each end. Basketball is one of the world's most popular and widely viewed sports. The basket is a steel rim 18 inches (45.72 cm) diameter with an attached net affixed to a backboard that measures 6 feet (1.82 meters) by 3.5 feet (1.06 meters) and one basket is at each end of the court. The white outlined box on the backboard is 18 inches (45.72 cm) high and 2 feet (60.96 cm) wide.
The shock of a basket or a dunk is absorbed by the connecting part, so that the rim goes back to a horizontal position once again. The top of the hoop is 10 feet above the ground. Regulation backboards are 6 feet wide (72 inches) by 42 inches tall. All basketball rims (hoops) are 18 inches in diameter. The inner rectangle on the backboard is 24 inches wide by 18 inches tall. 
Basketball Goal Regulation Height. Basketball goals are often made with adjustable basketball hoops, which can cause some confusion over setting the appropriate rim height. Customers often ask us if there is a uniform basketball goal regulation height. Rim Height Measurements. Measuring for the correct regulation basketball goal height is straightforward: the top of the rim should be set 10' above the playing surface. The 10' rim height measurement should not be confused with the top of the backboard or the bottom of the net. First Team offers backboards in a variety of sizes, from 30 x 44 up to traditional competition size 48 x 72”tempered glass. Whatever the size of the backboard, the rim is set at the same