76. Liver function tests (LFTs) measure various chemicals in the blood made by the liver. An abnormal result indicates a problem with the liver, and may help to identify the cause. Further tests may be needed to clarify the cause of the liver problem. 
Most often, a liver test panel is ordered as a routine lab test. Many doctors check the liver in new patients or during annual physicals. Your doctor may conduct liver enzyme and liver function tests if: 1  You are taking a medication that can harm the liver. 2  You have liver disease. 3  You have symptoms of liver or bile system disease (abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting, or yellow skin). Liver tests check the blood for two main liver enzymes: 1  Aspartate aminotransferase (AST), formerly called SGOT; the AST enzyme is also found in muscles and many other tissues besides the liver. 2  Alanine aminotransferase (ALT), formerly called SGPT; ALT is almost exclusively found in
Liver function tests may be done for many reasons. Some doctors perform these tests as part of a regular checkup. Other doctors may use liver function tests to screen patients who are at risk for liver disease. Doctors also use them to monitor a person’s liver disease and to check if treatment is working. Your doctor may ask you to not eat or drink and avoid medications before your blood tests. Certain foods and medications may affect your liver function test results. Tell your doctor about all the prescription, over the counter and herbal supplements you are taking.
Blood tests for liver function. Some of the standard or routine blood tests that your doctor will order to check “liver function” are in reality only able to detect liver damage. These tests may not be sensitive enough to accurately reflect whether your liver is functioning at its optimum level.
Some of these tests measure how well the liver is performing its normal functions of producing protein and clearing bilirubin, a blood waste product. Other liver function tests measure enzymes that liver cells release in response to damage or disease. Abnormal liver function test results don't always indicate liver disease. Your doctor will explain your results and what they mean. 1  Why it's done
Doctors may order liver function tests as a way to check a person's liver for injury, infection, or disease. They're a type of blood test, and they're usually (but not always) done as a group. Your doctor may order liver function tests to help diagnose a viral infection involving the liver (like mono or hepatitis, for example) or to look for possible effects of cancer or other diseases on the liver.
Liver enzyme tests, formerly called liver function tests (LFTs), are a group of blood tests that detect inflammation and damage to the liver. They can also check how well the liver is working. Liver tests check the blood for two main liver enzymes: 1  Aspartate aminotransferase (AST), formerly called SGOT; the AST enzyme is also found in muscles and many other tissues besides the liver. 2  Alanine aminotransferase (ALT), formerly called SGPT; ALT is almost exclusively found in
Liver function tests are blood tests used to help diagnose and monitor liver disease or damage. The tests measure the levels of certain enzymes and proteins in your blood. Other liver function tests measure enzymes that liver cells release in response to damage or disease. Abnormal liver function test results don't always indicate liver disease.
Liver function tests can be used to: 1  Screen for liver infections, such as hepatitis. 2  Monitor the progression of a disease, such as viral or alcoholic hepatitis, and determine how well a treatment is working. 3  Measure the severity of a disease, particularly scarring of the liver (cirrhosis). 4  Monitor possible side effects of medications. Liver function tests check the levels of certain enzymes and proteins in your blood. Levels that are higher or lower than normal can indicate liver problems.
Liver function tests help your doctor check your liver’s health and detect liver damage. These blood tests measure the levels of certain proteins and enzymes in your blood. Proteins are large molecules that are needed for your overall health. Your doctor may ask you to not eat or drink and avoid medications before your blood tests. Certain foods and medications may affect your liver function test results. Tell your doctor about all the prescription, over the counter and herbal supplements you are taking.