Mataram in West Lombok is the largest city in Lombok and also the capital city of the island. Lombok Island is surrounded with some smaller islands are locally called Gili that mean small Island on local language. There are view Gili's are also famous for tourist destionation.
NICE HOTELS IN LOMBOK. Lombok Island has several type of altitude, but most of the nice hotels are build close to the beach. Almost all of hotels are operate on the relaxation and leisure type of service.
The Santosa Villas & Resort offers a stunning beachfront resort in Senggigi on the beautiful island of Lombok, East Indonesia. Located just 20 minutes from the Selaparang Airport, the resort features a variety of accommodation from Terrace Rooms to Family Villas. All units are roomy and come with an excellent ...
Lombok is an island in the West Nusa Tenggara province of Indonesia. It is part of the chain of the Lesser Sunda Islands, with the Lombok Strait separating it from Bali to the west and the Alas Strait between it and Sumbawa to the east.
Cycling Tours believes seeing Lombok Island and around by bicycle is the best way to see nice views of Lombok Nature and some daily activities of sasak peoples. Our tours are for all levels of cyclists. We offer our program to travelers who wish to have great holiday experience during their vacation in Lombok Island.
Lombok island width is 4,725 km² is slightly smaller than Bali with a population of 3,166,685 inhabitants (according to sensus in 2010) is located between Bali Island on the East and Sumbawa Island on the west.
Lombok Island is located in West Nusa Tenggara Province part of Lesser Sunda Islands. Lombok is one of the best turist destination, for domestic and International. Ther are so many interesting place in Lombok Island. The main turist activities are very sunbathing, sailing, surfing, fishing, scuba diving and trekking.
There is Gili Trawangan, Gili Meno, Gili Air on the North of Lombok and Gili Nangu on the South East of Lombok. Lombok Island is divided into four regency and under administration of the Governor of the province West Nusa Tenggara (Nusa Tenggara Barat), They are:
SENGGIGI BEACH. Senggigi Beach is the centre of tourism of Lombok island. Senggigi Beach resembles the idyllic Kuta Beach in its heyday many years ago when it was beautiful beach, flanked by some cottages (low-cost family-run pensions) and restaurants.