Radioactive waste contains a mixture of short-lived and long-lived nuclides, as well as non-radioactive nuclides. There was reported some 47,000 tonnes of high-level nuclear waste stored in the USA in 2002. Nuclear waste is approximately 94% Uranium, 1.3% Plutonium, 0.14% other Actinides, and 5.2% fission products. 
Also follow us on: The majority of high-level radioactive waste is the fuel from the hot core of commercial nuclear power plants. This irradiated fuel is the most intensely radioactive material on the planet, and unshielded exposure gives lethal radiation doses. Radioactive waste classification in the U.S. is misleading and needs reassessment. The regulatory definition of high-level radioactive waste includes only irradiated fuel and the liquid and sludge from reprocessing fuel to recover plutonium (including solids resulting from stabilization of reprocessing wastes).
High-level waste consists mainly of spent fuel rods from nuclear reactors. These power plants rely on nuclear fission to generate heat, and the fuel is made into rods that can be moved in and out of the reactor core to control the process. Disposal. High-level waste is generally stored on site at nuclear power plants until a proper disposal site becomes available. During this initial storage period it is kept under at least 20 feet (6 meters) of water, which absorbs the radiation.
A summary of the amounts of radioactive waste and management approaches for most developed countries are presented and reviewed periodically as part of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) Joint Convention on the Safety of Spent Fuel Management and on the Safety of Radioactive Waste Management. Long-lived radioactive waste from the back end of the fuel cycle is especially relevant when designing a complete waste management plan for spent nuclear fuel (SNF). When looking at long term radioactive decay, the actinides in the SNF have a significant influence due to their characteristically long half-lives.
An Act to provide for the development of repositories for the disposal of high-level radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel, to establish a program of research, development, and demonstration regarding the disposal of high-level radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel, and for other purposes. 
Radioactive waste is hazardous to most forms of life and the environment, and is regulated by government agencies in order to protect human health and the environment. Long-lived radioactive waste from the back end of the fuel cycle is especially relevant when designing a complete waste management plan for spent nuclear fuel (SNF). When looking at long term radioactive decay, the actinides in the SNF have a significant influence due to their characteristically long half-lives.
There are actually two classifications of the stuff; low-level and high-level radioactive wastes. Low-level nuclear waste is the trash produced from cleaning materials and plant maintenance, similar to most industrial garbage with one difference; it's detectably radioactive. All three are also to be found in the nuclear waste matrix. Numerically, about 5% of the waste elements made from splitting U-235 and Pu-239 have half lives less than one day. Another 75% of the radioactive elements we find in high level nuclear waste have half lives between one day and five years.
High-Level Waste. High-level radioactive waste primarily is uranium fuel that has been used in a nuclear power reactor and is spent, or no longer efficient in producing electricity. Spent fuel is thermally hot as well as highly radioactive and requires remote handling and shielding. During the fission process, two things happen to the uranium in the fuel. First, uranium atoms split, creating energy that is used to produce electricity. The fission creates radioactive isotopes of lighter elements such as cesium-137 and strontium-90.
Radioactivity naturally decays over time, so radioactive waste has to be isolated and confined in appropriate disposal facilities for a sufficient period until it no longer poses a threat. The time radioactive waste must be stored for depends on the type of waste and radioactive isotopes. Long-lived radioactive waste from the back end of the fuel cycle is especially relevant when designing a complete waste management plan for spent nuclear fuel (SNF). When looking at long term radioactive decay, the actinides in the SNF have a significant influence due to their characteristically long half-lives.
Radioactive (or nuclear) waste is a byproduct from nuclear reactors, fuel processing plants, hospitals and research facilities. Radioactive waste is also generated while decommissioning and dismantling nuclear reactors and other nuclear facilities. There are two broad classifications: high-level or low-level waste. During the fission process, two things happen to the uranium in the fuel. First, uranium atoms split, creating energy that is used to produce electricity. The fission creates radioactive isotopes of lighter elements such as cesium-137 and strontium-90.