Hand over your credit card to a car rental agent and you may be in for a rude shock, either at the amount you're charged or the polite I'm sorry you get if she declines your card. Even if your available balance can cover the daily rate you expect to pay for the vehicle, that's not all you're being charged.
1 Realize that you must endure a credit check and ID verification process when you rent a car without a credit card. 2  Understand that a hold will be placed on your debit card for a certain amount until the rental vehicle is returned. 3  This is typically between $200 and $500.
Present a debit card when renting a vehicle. 1  Realize that you must endure a credit check and ID verification process when you rent a car without a credit card. 2  Understand that a hold will be placed on your debit card for a certain amount until the rental vehicle is returned. 3  This is typically between $200 and $500.
Credit Card Holds Needed to Rent a Car. Most car rental companies require a credit card to secure use of the vehicle. You are not charged for use of the vehicle until it is returned, and inspected for damage and other losses. Instead of charging customers upfront, most car rental companies place a hold on the open line.
Some rental car companies may require a deposit for cash payments for the rental agency’s security. The deposit may range from $200 to $500 or more. Some rental agencies will perform a credit check at the time of rental.
Rental agencies prefer credit cards to protect their company from incidentals that may occur while the rental car is in possession of the renter. Because of the economy, nearly 1.6 million people have filed bankruptcy in the United States in 2010. This number is up 13.8% from 2009.
You can use your debit card to pay for the rental, but most places, if accepted will require you have a minimum of $1000.00 to hold on your debit/credit card until you return the vehicle and then you can pay cash when you turn it in.
Some locations require a valid credit card for you to put down the deposit for your rental and allow you to pay with a debit card later. Others allow the use of debit cards but they may check your credit score and ask you for a third form of identification. Some may not allow the use of debit cards at all.