Overview. Helathy lawn grass is lovely, but it can require a lot of work to keep it green and free of weeds. If you've grown tired of the maintenance your lawn requires and are thinking about replacing that green carpet with something that's easier to take care of, you can easily kill your lawn without herbicides. 
We’ll consider here a yard area where other types of grasses have died or are not worth saving. You have bermuda grass growing in that area and you want to kill it off before planting a new lawn with your choice of nice grasses. Anything but bermuda! The good news is that you can probably be successful in that effort.The bad news is that it will take some time. Know this: 1  Killing bermuda grass is not as easy as you hope. 2  It will take longer than you expect to kill bermuda grass, a perennial weed. 3  In some cases, your best effort to kill bermuda grass completely and permanently may NOT be successful.
How to Kill Grass Using Vinegar. Kill unwanted grass with vinegar. White or pickled vinegar is another great way to kill your grass without the use of harmful chemicals. It is safe and will not harm the environment. As with newspaper, it is often helpful to mow the grassy area first or you may want to till it and then rake the area smooth. Cover the grass with black plastic. Unlike clear plastic, black plastic blocks out light, smothering grass roots and preventing new growth. Secure the plastic with large rocks.
Instead, use the solution of salt, water and vinegar to kill grass and weeds that pop up in undesirable locations, such as sidewalks and driveways. Mix 1 cup of salt with 1 cup of boiling water and 1 cup of vinegar to create a potent weed and grass killer. Vinegar. Vinegar can kill weeds and grass when undiluted, but mixing it with boiling water brings the power of the acetic acid in the vinegar together with the heat to create an effective plant killer. Pickling vinegar contains the most acid, so use it if possible. Create a mixture that's equal parts vinegar and boiling wat
Glyphosate Sprays. The fastest and best way to kill grass, according to the University of California, is to spray the entire lawn with a glyphosate-based herbicide. Put on protective gear -- closed-toe shoes, gloves and eye goggles -- then apply the herbicide according to the manufacturer-specific instructions. Some people spend years perfecting their lawns and getting them to look just right. If you need to kill and remove grass instead, you probably want a faster time frame.
How to Kill Grass Using Vinegar Kill unwanted grass with vinegar. White or pickled vinegar is another great way to kill your grass without the use of harmful chemicals. It is safe and will not harm the environment. However, do not spray near any plants you wish to keep, as vinegar will kill them too. As with newspaper, it is often helpful to mow the grassy area first or you may want to till it and then rake the area smooth. Cover the grass with black plastic. Unlike clear plastic, black plastic blocks out light, smothering grass roots and preventing new growth. Secure the plastic with large rocks.
1. Treat with a strong herbicide. A popular option is to use glyphosate to impede the spread of Bermuda grass and eventually kill off the grass in patches. The product is available in a spray, making it easy to coat an entire section of the lawn with relative ease. 
This takes at least six weeks, which means six weeks of staring at an ugly tarp. Layering: Also known as lasagna composting, this is almost certainly the method I'll use on my lawn. Think of it as a twofer: As you kill off your grass, you'll be building rich soil. Start by covering the turf with six or more layers of newspaper or cardboard. Top that with four to six inches of organic mulch and water thoroughly. 
While there are many ways to kill unwanted grass, not all of them are safe ways to kill grass. In fact, some methods involve the use of harmful chemicals. If you’re looking for an alternative solution to kill your grass, there are natural methods that can get the job done. As with newspaper, it is often helpful to mow the grassy area first or you may want to till it and then rake the area smooth. Cover the grass with black plastic. Unlike clear plastic, black plastic blocks out light, smothering grass roots and preventing new growth. Secure the plastic with large rocks.