Glucosamine sulfate is a naturally occurring chemical found in the human body. It is in the fluid that is around joints. Glucosamine is also found in other places in nature. For example, the glucosamine sulfate that is put into dietary supplements is often harvested from the shells of shellfish. Glucosamine sulfate used in dietary supplements does not always come from natural sources. It can also be made in a laborator
For information on these different products, see the Glucosamine Hydrochloride and N-Acetyl Glucosamine listings. Glucosamine sulfate is a chemical compound found in the fluid around joints. It can also be taken from natural sources such as seashells, or it can be made in the laboratory. Don't confuse glucosamine sulfate with other forms such as glucosamine hydrochloride or N-acetyl-glucosamine. Glucosamine Sulfate Safety and Side Effects. Glucosamine sulfate seems to be safe for most people. It can cause some mild side effects including nausea, heartburn, diarrhea, and constipation. Uncommon side effects are drowsiness, skin reactions, and headache.
Glucosamine is a naturally occurring substance found in the fluid around our joints. It is naturally present in animal bones, bone marrow, shellfish and fungi. Glucosamine plays a vital role in building cartilage and is commonly consumed as a supplement by people with arthritis, especially osteoarthritis. Glucosamine, especially glucosamine sulfate, is harvested from the shells of shellfish and put into dietary supplements. It can also be made in the laboratory. 
Glucosamine sulfate is a chemical found in the human body. It is used by the body to produce a variety of other chemicals that are involved in building tendons, ligaments, cartilage, and the thick fluid that surrounds joints. Joints are cushioned by the fluid and cartilage that surround them. It is in the fluid that is around joints. Glucosamine is also found in other places in nature. For example, the glucosamine sulfate that is put into dietary supplements is often harvested from the shells of shellfish. Glucosamine sulfate used in dietary supplements does not always come from natural sources.
Background. Glucosamine is a compound that is naturally made in humans. It is involved in the creation of molecules that form cartilage. Evidence supports the use of glucosamine sulfate in the treatment of knee osteoarthritis. It is believed that the sulfate portion may help strengthen cartilage
Glucosamine and chondroitin sulfate are natural substances found in and around the cells of cartilage. Glucosamine is an amino sugar that the body produces and distributes in cartilage and other connective tissue, and chondroitin sulfate is a complex carbohydrate that helps cartilage retain water. 
For information on these different products, see the Glucosamine Hydrochloride and N-Acetyl Glucosamine listings. Glucosamine sulfate is a chemical compound found in the fluid around joints. It can also be taken from natural sources such as seashells, or it can be made in the laboratory. Don't confuse glucosamine sulfate with other forms such as glucosamine hydrochloride or N-acetyl-glucosamine. Glucosamine sulfate is often marketed in combination products that also contain chondroitin sulfate. So far, there is no evidence that the combination products work any better than glucosamine sulfate or chondroitin sulfate alone. Buying a combination product is probably not worth the extra cost.
Commonly sold forms of glucosamine are glucosamine sulfate, glucosamine hydrochloride, and N-acetylglucosamine. Glucosamine is often sold in combination with other supplements such as chondroitin sulfate and methylsulfonylmethane. Of the three commonly available forms of glucosamine, only glucosamine sulfate is given a likely effective rating for treating osteoarthritis. Glucosamine is one of the most abundant monosaccharides. It is produced commercially by the hydrolysis of crustacean exoskeletons or, less commonly, by fermentation of a grain such as corn or wheat. Glucosamine appears to be safe for use as a dietary supplement; effectiveness has not been established for any condition. In the US it is one of the most common non-vitamin, non-mineral, dietary supplements used by adult
Chondroitin sulfate is an important structural component of cartilage and provides much of its resistance to compression. Along with glucosamine, chondroitin sulfate has become a widely used dietary supplement for treatment of osteoarthritis. 