1 You are required to keep financial records for a minimum of five years after they are prepared, obtained or the transactions completed (whichever occurs later). 2  Your obligations to keep records for five years continue even if you sell, close, or retire from your business. 1 Your obligations to keep records for five years continue even if you sell, close, or retire from your business. 2  The records need to be in plain English and allow for ease of access should the tax office ever wish to see them.
Income Tax Records. The Internal Revenue Service requires companies to keep business tax returns and supporting documents for a minimum of three years from the time of filing. During this time, the return can be amended or audited. If you failed to report income, however, the IRS can come after your business for up to six years. If the business took a deduction for a worthless security or bad debt, the IRS can pursue the issue for seven years. To be safe, a business should keep tax records in its permanent files. 
Most business owners don’t know how long they should hold on to old records. According to the IRS, here’s how long you should keep those records: Permanently: 1  general ledgers and journals. 2  payroll records, including W-2s, 940s, 941s. 3  year-end financial statements. 4  tax returns and supporting documents. 5  articles of incorporation, bylaws, meeting minutes, etc. 6  retirement plan records. […] bank statement slips and leases should be kept for 10 years, according to mynewcompany.com (http://www.mynewcompany.com/blog/how-long-to-keep-business-records/).
Often swamped with paperwork, many entrepreneurs wonder how long you should keep business records. The answer depends a great deal upon whom you ask and what the record pertains to in your business. The IRS sets some basic record retention standards for tax records. Here are some basic record retention rules to think about for your business. 1  Business Income Tax Returns and Supporting Documents. 2  It makes sense to keep a final copy of your business income tax returns and related correspondence with the IRS permanently to help you prepare future or amended returns.
How long to keep records. You must normally keep records for at least 6 years from the end of the last company financial year they relate to. You may need to keep records longer if: 1  they show a transaction that covers more than one of the company’s accounting periods. 2  the company has bought something that it expects to last more than 6 years, like equipment or machinery. 3  you sent your Company Tax Return late
Records for tax deductions taken. Length of time to keep, and why: Seven years. 1  The IRS has three years from your filing date to audit your return if it suspects good-faith errors. 2  The three-year deadline also applies if you discover a mistake in your return and decide to file an amended return to claim a refund.
4. Seven Year Rule for Record Retention(general rule). The rules on how long to keep financial records varies depending on what you are saving. For up to date tax filings, 7 years is a safe rule of thumb. Some people might say that is too long, but it is easier to follow this rule than to have to keep track how long you should keep different info. We suggest you keep tax returns for the life of your company. Scan them and save them both on and off site..
1 Typically, the IRS can come after your business for failing to report income for up to 6 years after your filing if the amount is greater than 25% of your business’s gross income. 2  If you filed for a deduction for a bad debt or worthless security, the IRS suggests you keep your supporting tax records for 7 years. Here are some basic record retention rules to think about for your business. 1  Business Income Tax Returns and Supporting Documents. 2  It makes sense to keep a final copy of your business income tax returns and related correspondence with the IRS permanently to help you prepare future or amended returns.
You’ll also need to keep records of your personal income. If you’re the nominated partner in a partnership, you must also keep records for the partnership. There are different rules on keeping records for limited companies. 
Share | Subscribe. Most people hold onto boxes full of financial records, tax returns and pay stubsthey no longer need. And they don't always keep the records they do need. Here are guidelines on what you need to keep, and for how long. 1  Estate-planning documents: will, power of attorney, advance health-caredirective (living will) and health-care proxy. 2  Store them in a safe-deposit box,but don't put them there and forget it. 