In the UK, Breed Specific Legislation was introduced and owning certain dog breeds was made illegal. Under the Dangerous Dogs Act four breeds of dog are banned – the pit bull terrier, Japanese Tosa, Dogo Argentino and Fila Brasileiro. This is despite the fact that the majority of these dogs are gentle, loving, affectionate and friendly family dogs, and completely innocent of any wrong doing. On introduction of this Breed Specific Legislation, every one of these breeds in the UK was taken from it’s family and put to death. Anybody who did not give their dog up was prosecuted and their dog was taken and put to death anyway
BSL Scotland Act Facebook group now open. A new Facebook group launched about the BSL (Scotland) Act, which will be an exciting ongoing engagement with Deaf community. BSL (Scotland) Bill Stage 3 to take place-Get your tickets. Stage 3 of the BSL (Scotland) Bill will take place on Thursday 17 September 2015 at 2.30pm at The Scottish Parliament.
As with any other laws, all citizens are expected to respect and follow them. The Breed-Specific Legislation may also be in the form of specific restrictions to a particular dog breed. Owners of the restricted dogs for example may be required to have their dogs neutered if the BSL is in place or being implemented. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The BSL Fingerspelling Alphabet. British Sign Language (BSL) is the sign language used in the United Kingdom (UK), and is the first or preferred language of some deaf people in the UK; there are 125,000 deaf adults in the UK who use BSL plus an estimated 20,000 children. 
There are constantly new dogs and and their families becoming innocent victims of BSL in the UK and other countries, despite being responsible owners and their innocent dogs having done nothing wrong. This is despite the fact that the majority of these dogs are gentle, loving, affectionate and friendly family dogs, and completely innocent of any wrong doing. On introduction of this Breed Specific Legislation, every one of these breeds in the UK was taken from it’s family and put to death. Anybody who did not give their dog up was prosecuted and their dog was taken and put to death anyway
Breed-specific legislation is a law passed by a legislative body pertaining to a specific breed or breeds of domesticated animals. Another point of view is that comprehensive dog bite legislation, coupled with better consumer education and legally mandating responsible pet keeping practices, is a better solution than breed-specific legislation to the problem of dangerous dogs.
BSL File Opener. Download ». The fastest and easiest way to open your BSL file is to double-click it. This allows the intelligence of Windows to decide the correct software application to open your BSL file. 
17545 Views. “When you drive down the street and see a gang banger with all kinds of gang regalia walking along with two or three pit bulls, it’s pretty simple for the policeman to raise the dog’s tail and see whether or not it’s spayed or neutered. It’s not difficult to trace the source of breed-specific legislation. It was, and always has been, the brain child of radical animal rights groups whose stated end-goal is to eliminate all domestic animal ownership.