Plymouth Rock in Massachusetts is largely considered the site where the first Colonists arrived in the New World. This initial boatload of settlers was known as Pilgrims. Massachusetts otherwise is most well known as a key hotbed of Colonial dissension before and during the Revolutionary War. One of the most famous incidents leading up to the war takes a Massachusetts place name: the Boston Tea Party. But key figures were Massachusetts residents and politicians. Following a long history of social activism, Massachusetts paved the way for Gay Rights in 2004 when it voted to make gay marriage legal, a first in the U.S. However the current state of this issue could change; it remains a political hot button issue.
Lead Up to the Revolutionary War. For more than a decade before the outbreak of the American Revolution in 1775, tensions had been building between colonists and the British authorities. Skirmishes between British troops and colonial militiamen in Lexington and Concord in April 1775 kicked off the armed conflict, and by the following summer, the rebels were waging a full-scale war for their independence.
The largest Revolutionary War reenactment in New England takes place every August at Old Sturbridge Village in Sturbridge, Massachusetts. The event includes dozens of units and hundreds of reenactors, with large battles and skirmishes, demonstrations, and a large encampment where you can meet and learn from the reenactors. More information on Redcoats and Rebels is at http://www.thehistorylist.com/events/... .
The American Revolution (1775-83) is also known as the American Revolutionary War and the U.S. War of Independence. The conflict arose from growing tensions between residents of Great Britain’s 13 North American colonies and the colonial government, which represented the British crown. Skirmishes between British troops and colonial militiamen in Lexington and Concord in April 1775 kicked off the armed conflict, and by the following summer, the rebels were waging a full-scale war for their i
Prior to European colonization, the Nipmuck people inhabited the Quinebaug region of which OSV is a part. In the early 19th century, the land on which Old Sturbridge Village now stands was a farm owned by David Wight. The farm included a sawmill, gristmill and a millpond which survives to this day. The millpond, which still powers the mills, was dug in 1795. Old Sturbridge Village has over 40 structures, including restored buildings purchased and relocated from across New England and some authentic reconstructions. The village is divided into three main sections. The Center Village represents the center of town, with the town green as its focal point.
STURBRIDGE-For those in love with the Revolutionary War, there is walking history this weekend at Old Sturbridge Village. It has become the major Revolutionary War event in New England, said Debra L. Friedman, director of interpretation and visitor services at Old Sturbridge Village. It's one of our biggest events. It's one of our premier events for the year.. Brian Tedder photo Nathaniel J. Williams, of Northampton, N.H., and the 10th Regiment of Foot, plays the fife during a parade of the units before the mock battle at the Revolutionary War re-enactment at Old Sturbridge Village on Saturday. Charles and Polly Arneson, of Barrington, R.I., were impressed with what they saw
It is the largest living museum in New England, covering more than 200 acres (80 hectares). The Village includes 59 antique buildings, three water-powered mills, and a working farm. The museum is a popular tourist and educational field trip destination. Old Sturbridge Village has over 40 structures, including restored buildings purchased and relocated from across New England and some authentic reconstructions. The village is divided into three main sections. The Center Village represents the center of town, with the town green as its focal point.
The American Revolution was a political upheaval that took place between 1765 and 1783 during which colonists in the Thirteen American Colonies rejected the British monarchy and aristocracy, overthrew the authority of Great Britain, and founded the United States of America. A combined American–French force captured a second British army at Yorktown in 1781, effectively ending the war in the United States. A peace treaty in 1783 confirmed the new nation's complete separation from the British Empire.
(April 2010). Old Sturbridge Village (OSV) is a living museum located in Sturbridge, Massachusetts, in the United States, which re-creates life in rural New England during the 1790s through 1830s. Old Sturbridge Village has over 40 structures, including restored buildings purchased and relocated from across New England and some authentic reconstructions. The village is divided into three main sections. The Center Village represents the center of town, with the town green as its focal point.