1 If the driver refuses the testing, the driver's license will be suspended for a minimum of one year. 2  This suspension will make you ineligible for a limited driving permit if you are convicted of a first DUI. 
If you have a suspended driver’s license, your state will likely require you to: 1  Refrain from driving for a period of time. 2  Enroll in a defensive driving course or traffic school. 3  Get an SR22 from your insurance company. 4  Pay a reinstatement fee. Suspended Driver’s License. Your driver license may be suspended by your local Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV), Secretary of State (SOS), Department of Revenue (DOR), or Motor Vehicle Division (MVD). You can get a suspended license for reasons including:
There is no statute of limitations on the SR-22 requirement. The continuous three-year requirement begins from the date you reinstate your driver's license regardless of how long you have been in suspension or when you purchased the coverage. The DMV does not notify drivers of when they are eligible to remove the SR-22 filing. If you are unsure of the date, please contact us
A suspension or revocation must be cleared by the state which originated it. There is no time limit or statute of limitations on how long an active suspension or revocation remains listed and in effect. If your license is suspended or revoked in another state, you must follow that state's reinstatement procedures. The continuous three-year requirement begins from the date you reinstate your driver's license regardless of how long you have been in suspension or when you purchased the coverage. The DMV does not notify drivers of when they are eligible to remove the SR-22 filing.
Reinstate License. You can pursue license reinstatement once you’re suspension period has ended. Again, each state DMV governs suspended license reinstatements differently, but in general you will need to fulfill all or some of the following requirements: 1  Pay a license reinstatement fee.
The DMV will mail you a suspended license notice to the address on file (more reason to always alert the DMV of address changes). You can also check the status of your driver’s license by obtaining a copy of your driving record. On it will be: 1  The reason for your license suspension. 2  The length of the suspension, determined by the severity of the violation and whether you’re a repeat offender. 3  Special requirements. You can pursue license reinstatement once you’re suspension period has ended. Again, each state DMV governs suspended license reinstatements differently, but in general you will need to fulfill all or some of the following requirements: 1  Pay a license reinstatement fee.
Driver’s License Reinstatement in Your State. Our suspended license pages for your state will help you: 1  Learn how to check your driver license status. 2  Obtain a restricted/hardship driver’s license, if you’re eligible. 3  Reinstate your driver's license. Suspended Driver’s License. Your driver license may be suspended by your local Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV), Secretary of State (SOS), Department of Revenue (DOR), or Motor Vehicle Division (MVD). You can get a suspended license for reasons including:
The fee for purchasing a driving record online is $8.70. You can also go to any Kansas Driver's License Exam station. You will need to show your current driver's license for identification and make a $10 payment by check or money order payable to Driver Solutions. 
1 Pay the reinstate fee (there is a $3.00 portal charge for a credit card payment). 2  Check the status of your driving privileges including points. 3  Check how long you need to maintain SR22 filing. 4  Once your license is in a good status, you can order your license online. 
License suspension and revocation information is shared with all 50 states. If your driving privilege is suspended or revoked in another state, you must follow that state's reinstatement procedures prior to obtaining a Nevada driver license. See Links to All 50 State DMV's. The continuous three-year requirement begins from the date you reinstate your driver's license regardless of how long you have been in suspension or when you purchased the coverage. The DMV does not notify drivers of when they are eligible to remove the SR-22 filing.