You spray the tree while it is dormant-late March. You should be good until July-August. The cost of the sprayer and spray is about $50. The spray should be enough for 5 years. Unless, the bees decide to make the tree their home, I'd say don't kill them, they help with the pollination.
The cost of preventative tree spraying is only a small fraction of the thousands of dollars it will cost to remove dead and beetle infested trees. Also, properties can lose up to 10% of their value, if they are devoid of large mature, well maintained trees.
Advertisements. We just moved into our first house and got something in the mail from the previous owners tree spraying service. It outlines what the previous owner had done every year from May through September....spraying for caterpillars, inch worms, aphids, ticks, bees etc. The total cost is about $1,000.
We just moved into our first house and got something in the mail from the previous owners tree spraying service. It outlines what the previous owner had done every year from May through September....spraying for caterpillars, inch worms, aphids, ticks, bees etc. The total cost is about $1,000.
The cost of emerald ash borer treatment is about $20 to $30 per year and on a per tree basis. Depending on the size of the tree, it might take up to two years before the tree is fully protected. If the ash tree is infected too badly, it will need to be removed, which can cost up to $1,000.
EMLA 7 will make a tree about sixty percent the size of a standard tree. Space your trees 15-18 feet apart and expect your tree to get 10-12 feet tall. If you have a small backyard you may want to use a dwarfing rootstock like EMLA 9 or EMLA26. These trees will only get 7-8 feet tall and wide.
The pricing for our Residential Mosquito Control is based on the total size of your lot plus also the amount of landscaping, (bushes, shrubs, etc.), that we need to spray. We will spray all of the grass in your yard, and also your bushes, shrubs, flower beds, and the lower branches of your trees.
1 Tree Help.com offers how-to help for homeowners who want to take care of the trimming. 2  They sell hand-held pruners and loppers at $36 that can be useful on smaller branches and fruit trees. 3  A gas pole pruner runs $179 at Home Depot.com.