Adjectives can function as predicate adjectives, meaning that they can follow a linking verb and provide information that describes the subject of the sentence. A predicate adjective can be a single adjective, or it can be a phrase that includes an adjective and any modifiers. You already know that some verbs are called linking verbs, and they link the subject of the sentence to words or information that renames or describes the subject.
(with Examples). A predicate adjective is an adjective that follows a linking verb and modifies (i.e., refers back to) the subject of the linking verb. A predicate adjective contrasts with an attributive adjective, which typically sits immediately before the noun it modifies. For example: Below are some examples of predicate adjectives. In these examples, the predicate adjective is shaded and the subject being modified is in bold.
A predicate adjective (also called a subject complement) modifies the subject like other descriptive adjectives, but it follows a linking verb in a sentence. A list of linking verbs is given below. These verbs are linking verbs only if they are followed by adjectives, nouns, or pronouns that rename the subject. A predicate adjective follows a linking verb. The easy way to recognize a linking verb is that a linking verb acts as an equals sign, the object is a form of the subject, or t … he subject becomes the object. Some common linking verbs are seem, feel, and any form of be. Examples: I am sick.
A predicate adjective is a subject complement, a word or group of words that follows a linking verb or verb phrase such as is, am, were, smell, feel, taste, look, sound, have been, and did seem. 
Definition. A predicate adjective is an adjective that is used to predicate an attribute of the subject. 
(coconut … is the predicate nominative because it identifies what the object is) A predicate adjective is and adjective that follows a linking verb and modifies or describes the subject. For example: The cut flowers look dry and lifeless. A predicate adjective follows a linking verb. The easy way to recognize a linking verb is that a linking verb acts as an equals sign, the object is a form of the subject, or t … he subject becomes the object. Some common linking verbs are seem, feel, and any form of be. Examples: I am sick.
It follows a linking verb. A predicate adjective, subject complement is the adjective that follows a linking verb; it is normally an adjective or a noun that renames or defines in some way the subject. The verb 'was' can be followed by a predicate noun or a predicate adjective. For example: Noun: Mary is my sister. Adjective: Mary is very smart. A predicate adjective follows a linking verb. The easy way to recognize a linking verb is that a linking verb acts as an equals sign, the object is a form of the subject, or t … he subject becomes the object. Some common linking verbs are seem, feel, and any form of be. Examples: I am sick.