An ecosystem is a community of living organisms in conjunction with the nonliving components of their environment (things like air, water and mineral soil), interacting as a system. These biotic and abiotic components are regarded as linked together through nutrient cycles and energy flows. Ecosystems are controlled both by external and internal factors. External factors such as climate, the parent material which forms the soil and topography, control the overall structure of an ecosystem and the way things work within it, but are not themselves influenced by the ecosystem.
These changes in an ecosystem over time are called ecological succession. Ecosystems may reach a point of stability that can last for hundreds or thousands of years. If a disaster occurs, the damaged ecosystem is likely to recover in stages that eventually result in a stable system similar to the original one. Ecosystem Stability The interrelationships and interdependencies of organisms affect the development of stable ecosystems. The types of animal communities found in an ecosystem is dependent upon the kinds of plants and other producer organisms in that ecosystem.
Stability can be defined at the ecosystem level — for example, a rancher might be interested in the ability of a grassland ecosystem to maintain primary production for cattle forage across several years that may vary in their average temperature and precipitation. A wealth of research into the relationships among diversity, stability, and ecosystem functioning has been conducted in recent years (reviewed by Balvanera et al. 2006, Hooper et al. 2005).
Ecosystem. Definition. noun, plural: ecosystems. A system that includes all living organisms (biotic factors) in an area as well as its physical environment (abiotic factors) functioning together as a unit. Supplement. An ecosystem is made up of plants, animals, microorganisms, soil, rocks, minerals, water sources and the local atmosphere interacting with one another
When I talk about a stable ecosystem, the first idea that springs to mind is that I'm talking about a system that's the same all the time. Of course, there's no such thing. No ecosystem is the same even two days in a row. We do this on a larger scale for the whole ecosystem. If we can observe the ecosystem for a series of years, and things stay roughly the same (always remembering those ups and downs, and all of the unique things we're ignoring), we can safely say that we are studying a stab
Resistance and resilience: the relationship between stability and sustainability. Ecosystem stability is an important corollary of sustainability. Over time, the structure and function of a healthy ecosystem should remain relatively stable, even in the face of disturbance. If a stress or disturbance does alter the ecosystem is should be able to bounce back quickly. An ecosystem disturbance can be natural or human induced stress. An example of a natural disturbance is a hurricane or a tornado. An example of a human-induced or anthropogenic disturbance is tillage or pesticide application. Redundancy in ecosystem structure and function often infers stability on a system.
Another important thing to remember is that nothing stays stable forever. An ecosystem that is stable and has been stable for many years (or centuries) may lose its stability if, for instance, the climate changes, or if certain kinds of disasters strike which alter so many things that the ecosystem is destabilized. So stable doesn't' mean permanent, either. We do this on a larger scale for the whole ecosystem. If we can observe the ecosystem for a series of years, and things stay roughly the same (always remembering those ups and downs, and all of the unique things we're ignoring), we can safely say that we are studying a stab
While most research on the relationship between ecosystem diversity and stability has focused on species richness, it is variation in species composition that provides the mechanistic basis to explain the relationship between species richness and ecosystem functioning. A wealth of research into the relationships among diversity, stability, and ecosystem functioning has been conducted in recent years (reviewed by Balvanera et al. 2006, Hooper et al. 2005).
Full Definition of ECOSYSTEM. : the complex of a community of organisms and its environment functioning as an ecological unit. See ecosystem defined for English-language learners. See ecosystem defined for kids. 
Answers. Best Answer: Think of an ecosystem (Any) and that would be a stable ecosystem. (Include predators, and prey) Now, an unstable would be adding something new to the environment. You can put a pod Orca in a habitats of shakes for example. Source(s): 