VICTORIANS raised a record-breaking $2 million in the Herald Sun/CityLink Run for the Kids, bumping total donations to almost $9 million in eight years. The event brought in $1.95 million and with CityLink's $50,000 contribution, Run for the Kids' total donations since 2006 have been boosted to $8.7 million. About 35,000 runners converged on Melbourne's CBD in support of the Royal Children's Hospital Good Friday Appeal. For one runner, the day also came with a marriage proposal. Daniel Botros proposed to girlfriend Connie Baker just minutes after crossing the finish line. Competitors of all ages Run for the Kids. Together, we've raised more than $8 million in eight years. Your efforts-as participants, volunteers, supporters of the run or as donors to the Everyday Hero program-have enabled the Run for the Kids to maintain its place as the biggest charity fundraising fun run in Victoria.
One year later and Griffin had helped Yoa work his way into the 2008 world cross country junior team and in 2010 he made the senior side. “He ran a wonderful trial at Brimbank which Collis (Birmingham) won and that got him into the team for Poland,’’ Griffin said. But his first world title race is not a pleasant memory. “He hurt his back and pulled out after 1km and that was it,’’ Griffin said. Yoa quit running for two years after that race, moved to Adelaide and, by his own admission, did some growing up.
xxxx. A-T: Position in the All-Time Lists. Click on the event names to see the All-Time lists for that event. T-L: Position in the Annual World Top Lists. Click on the event names to see the Top List of the respective event.
The 2014 senior sportstar of the year winner finish third overall in 48:45 at the annual event which saw more than $1.8 million raised for the Royal Children’s Hospital. However, it was Sudanese-born athlete Duer Yoa who claimed gold, crossing the line in an impressive 47:07. 
New South Wales London Olympian Eloise Wellings showed her class by taking out the elite women's and Oceania championship titles in 32.55, from fellow Olympian in South Australia Jess Trengove (33.20) and Victorian Courtney Powell (33.55). Yoa and Wellings both claimed a winner's purse of $4500 for their efforts. A total of 1600 runners took part in the ninth edition of the Launceston Ten across the 2km, 5 and 10km races.
Yoa spent his early childhood in the village of Nasir, Sudan, from where his family fled the civil war, eventually, in 2002, arriving in Australia and settling in Ballarat, where Yoa attended Ballarat Secondary College. He became the first Sudanese runner to represent Australia at the IAAF World Cross Country Championships when he competed at the 2008 event in Edinburgh. Yoa came third at the Australian national under-20 championship and won the under-20 Victoria cross country and road events.
SUDANESE born runner Duer Yoa has won the 2015 Launceston Ten and Oceania 10-kilometre championship after crossing the line first in a time of 29.28.23. The start of the Launceston Ten. Picture SCOTT GELSTON. SUDANESE born runner Duer Yoa beat a strong field to win the 2015 Launceston Ten and Oceania 10-kilometre championship titles on Sunday after crossing the line first in a time of 29.28.23. Yoa and Wellings both claimed a winner's purse of $4500 for their efforts. A total of 1600 runners took part in the ninth edition of the Launceston Ten across the 2km, 5 and 10km races.
Duer Yoa is only 24 but his rollercoaster running career hit a new high on the weekend when he won the national cross country titles in Albany. Yoa, has a colourful past. Born in Sudan, his family fled the civil war to move to Melbourne in 2002 and he attended Lyndale Secondary College in Dandenong. But his first world title race is not a pleasant memory. “He hurt his back and pulled out after 1km and that was it,’’ Griffin said. Yoa quit running for two years after that race, moved to Adelaide and, by his own admission, did some growing up.
It would have been good to go home (Tasmania) and win, but maybe next year.”. While Yoa is building towards another marathon later in the year, McSweyn has just turned 20 and has gone through a major improvement curve in the past six months with a third place in the Sydney: 10 national road title last month.
Duer Yoa (Born December 26, 1989) is a Sudanese born cross country and road runner living in Ballarat, Australia. He became the first Sudanese runner to represent Australia at the IAAF World Cross Country Championships when he competed at the 2008 event in Edinburgh. Yoa came third at the Australian national under-20 championship and won the under-20 Victoria cross country and road events. He is sponsored by Adidas