Neil is a medieval given name which means Champion and evolved into an Irish, Scottish, and English surname. It is derived from the given name of Irish origin -- Niall -- and was brought to England by the Scandinavians. Neill, Neild, Neele, Neel, Neeld, Niall, Niell, Nield, Niel, Nihell, Nihill are variations. Shand is a Scottish name, Shands is the Patronymic version of the name, that is, the equivalent of son of Shand.. The origin of Shand itself is uncertain, but may be a shortened form of Alexander. It may also be a Place name from Chandai, located in Orne, and recorded in the 12th century.
Chyanne /chy-anne/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls is of Native American Indian origin, and Chyanne means unintelligible speakers. Chyanne is a variant transcription of Cheyenne (Native American Indian): from the French name shaiyena. Chann is a popular last name. Kreatif forms: Chyance, Chyanna, Chyante. 
Steny Hamilton Hoyer (/ˈstɛni ˈhɔɪ.ər/ ; born June 14, 1939) is the U.S. Representative for Maryland's 5th congressional district, serving since 1981. The district includes a large swath of rural and suburban territory southeast of Washington, D.C. . In 1966, Hoyer won a seat in the Maryland State Senate, representing Prince George's County-based 26th Senate District. In 1975, Hoyer was elected President of the Maryland State Senate, the youngest in state history.
My g/grandfather, Anguish Raynes, married Sarah Jane Alsobrooks of Scott Co. Sarah was the child of Edward G and Sarah Ann (Parker). Edward was the son of Wesley and Charlotte (Grimmer). 
The English family name Alsobrooks is classified as being of habitation origin. Habitation names are those family names which are derived from either the location of the place … of residence of the initial bearer of from the name of the town of village from whence he hailed. It is also possible that Alsobrooks is derivative form Allbrook, indicating one who came from Allbrook (old brook), the name of a place in Hampshire. Variants of the surname Alsobrooke, who was baptized in All Saints, Loughbourough, Leicestershire, in 1634.
Charles Bernard Charlie Rangel (/ˈraeŋɡəl/ ; ˈræŋɡəl Born june, 11) 1930 is The.U. S representative For New'york s 13th congressional. district Rangel graduated from New York University in 1957 and St. John's University School of Law in 1960. He then worked as a private lawyer, Assistant U.S. Attorney, and legal counsel during the early-mid-1960s.
McLucas is a Scottish patronymic form of the English, French, Spanish, Portuguese, and Flemish/Dutch patronymic name Lucas, derived from the given name Lucas, which has its origins in the Greek Loucas, meaning 'man from Loucania.' Loucania was a region of Southern Italy. Shand is a Scottish name, Shands is the Patronymic version of the name, that is, the equivalent of son of Shand.. The origin of Shand itself is uncertain, but may be a shortened form of Alexander. It may also be a Place name from Chandai, located in Orne, and recorded in the 12th century.
His father was Danish and a native of Copenhagen; Steny is a variant of his father's name, Steen, and Hoyer is an anglicized form of the fairly common Danish surname Hoeyer. høyer In 1966, Hoyer won a seat in the Maryland State Senate, representing Prince George's County-based 26th Senate District. In 1975, Hoyer was elected President of the Maryland State Senate, the youngest in state history.
The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of William Freeman, which was dated 1196, in the County Pipe Rolls of Norfolk, during the reign of King Richard 1, known as The Lionheart, 1189 - 1199. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation. The Anglo-Saxon society was divided into various classes, of which The Freeman could be described as Middle Class in 20th Century terms, although direct comparisons are not possible. Certainly to be a Free born person denoted considerable and jealously guarded status. Since most people were effectively slaves. The surname derivation is from the pre 7th Century freo meaning free born and man a servant or worker. The 1188 Pipe Rolls for Essex record one Freman Sceil, and this shows the use of the compound as a rare personal name