Medicare Part B (Medical Insurance) covers a glaucoma test once every 12 months for people at high risk for glaucoma. The screening must be done or supervised by an eye doctor who's legally allowed to do this test in your state. 
Order your free copy ». Early detection, through regular and complete eye exams, is the key to protecting your vision from damage caused by glaucoma. A complete eye exam includes five common tests to detect glaucoma. It is important to have your eyes examined regularly. Your eyes should be tested: 1  before age 40, every two to four years. 2  from age 40 to age 54, every one to three years. 3  from age 55 to 64, every one to two years
A glaucoma test is usually part of a routine eye exam. Both types of glaucoma tests measure internal pressure of the eye. One glaucoma test involves measuring what happens when a puff of air is blown across the surface of the eye. (A puff test) Another test uses a special device (in conjunction with eye-numbing drops) to touch the surface of the eye to measure eye pressure.
To detect glaucoma, your eye care professional will do the following tests: Visual acuity: This eye chart test measures how well you see at various distances. Visual Field: This test measures your side (peripheral) vision. It helps your eye care professional find out if you have lost side vision, a sign of glaucoma. But, this test alone cannot detect glaucoma. Glaucoma is found most often during an eye examination through dilated pupils. This means drops are put into the eyes during the exam to enlarge the pupils. This allows the eye care professional to see more of the inside of the eye to check for signs
1 Eye pressure. 2  Tonometry measures the pressure in the eye (intraocular pressure, or IOP). 3  Vision tests. 4  These include tests to check for visual acuity and loss of side and central vision (perimetry testing). 1 Tonometry measures the pressure in the eye (intraocular pressure, or IOP). 2  Vision tests. 3  These include tests to check for visual acuity and loss of side and central vision (perimetry testing). 4  Cornea thickness. 5  Tests such as ultrasound pachymetry measure the thickness of the clear front surface of the eye (cornea).
Tests for Glaucoma. Glaucoma is detected through a comprehensive eye exam that includes a visual acuity test, visual field test, dilated eye exam, tonometry, and pachymetry. A visual acuity test uses an eye chart test to measure how well you see at various distances. A visual field test measures your side or peripheral vision. It helps your eye care professional tell if you have lost side vision, a sign of glaucoma. Click for more information. In a dilated eye exam, drops are placed in your eyes to widen, or dilate, the pupils. In tonometry, an instrument measures the pressure inside the eye. Numbing drops may be applied to your eye for this test. With pachymetry, a numbing drop is applied to your eye. Your eye care professional uses an ultrasonic wave instrument to measure the thickness of your cornea.
Tests and diagnosis discussion for Glaucoma: Many people may know of the air puff test or other tests used to measure eye pressure in an eye examination. But, this test alone cannot detect glaucoma. Glaucoma is found most often during an eye examination through dilated pupils. This means drops are put into the eyes during the exam to enlarge the pupils. This allows the eye care professional to see more of the inside of the eye to check for signs of glaucoma.
Glaucoma is a group of eye diseases which result in damage to the optic nerve and vision loss. A major risk factor is increased pressure in the eye. The disorders can be roughly divided into two main categories:  open-angle  and  closed-angle  (or  angle closure ) glaucoma. 
Other tests determine whether you have glaucoma and how advanced your glaucoma may be. Most diagnostic tests need to be repeated on a regular basis to follow the presence or progression of glaucoma. 1  Air puff test: The air puff test is the most common. 
Glaucoma tests are designed to test your eyes for one of the key symptoms of the disease – increased eye pressure – however only a comprehensive eye exam can reveal whether or not you have glaucoma. Increased pressure inside the eye is often a key indicator of glaucoma, though not exclusively so. One glaucoma test involves measuring what happens when a puff of air is blown across the surface of the eye. (A puff test) Another test uses a special device (in conjunction with eye-numbing drops) to touch the surface of the eye to measure eye pressure.