What is the average salary for a Physical Therapist Assistant? According to the APTA (American Physical Therapy Association) the median income for a PTA is $70,000 depending on position, years of experience, degree of education, geographic location, and practice setting. 
The common requirements to become a physical therapist are a college degree in physical therapy and state licensure. Physical therapists need a strong understanding of health, anatomy, and nutrition, along with good interpersonal skills. They need strength and stamina because the job can be physically demanding. Education. In previous years, a bachelor's degree was commonly required to become a physical therapist. However, in recent times, most physical therapist degree programs have shifted to the graduate level.
Physical therapists help people recover from illnesses or physical injuries. To work as a physical therapist, you'll need to earn a graduate degree and become licensed. For more information on the education required for physical therapists, read on
Physical therapist assistant (PTA) education, obtained in a CAPTE-accredited two-year associate degree program, prepares graduates for taking the national licensure examination and entering the field of physical therapy with the required knowledge, skills, and behaviors of a PTA. 
Essential Information. Physical therapists work with patients to help them retrain injured or debilitated muscles by moving, stretching and strengthening various parts of the body. To become a physical therapist, a person must obtain a professional degree, usually a doctorate in physical therapy. Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a physical therapist. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about degree programs, job duties and licensing to find out if this is the career for you. View 10 Popular Schools ».
Education Requirements to Become a Physical Therapist. A student aspiring to become a physical therapist is required to maintain a master degree. In the majority of cases, a doctoral degree in therapy is mandatory. Coursework in colleges usually combines classroom lectures and rotations in clinical settings
All states require PTs to become licensed. Licensing requirements are set by individual states, but include passing the National Physical Therapy Examination (NPTE), which is administered by the Federation of State Boards of Physical Therapy (FSBPT). The NPTE is a computerized, multiple-choice exam. 
Physical therapist (PT) professional education refers to the didactic and clinical education that prepares graduates for entry into practice of physical therapy. Education for the advancement of practicing physical therapists is termed post-professional. Professional (entry-level) physical therapist education programs in the United States only offer the Doctor of Physical Therapy (DPT) degree to all new students who enroll.