Overview. Microsoft Project provides budgeting, collaboration, customization, issue tracking, reporting, resource management, task management, and traditional project management functionality for businesses of all sizes, from small businesses to large enterprises. Microsoft Project excels in task management. 
Project Web App for Microsoft Project Online. The release of Project Web App for Project Server 2013 is paired with the release of a new service in Office 365, Project Web App for Microsoft Project Online. 
Deliver Winning Projects. Make project management easy and collaborate from virtually anywhere with the right tools for project managers, project teams and decision makers. Learn more. Watch Video. For Project Managers. Make project management easy and engaging for Project Managers by enabling them to analyze resources, budgets and timelines. Also, Project managers can easily measure progress and anticipate resource needs with detailed and easily customizable out-of-the box reports.
The newest Microsoft Office 365 family member: Project Online. Office 365, Microsoft's Google Apps competitor, is getting a new and expected addition: A cloud-hosted version of Microsoft Project. By Mary Jo Foley for All About Microsoft |. | Topic: Cloud. 
Project Plan 365 - Create, modify, share Microsoft Project MPP files. The Housatonic Project Plan 365 is a simple to use project planning and collaboration solution that works with or in place of Microsoft Project. 1  Maintain Work Breakdown Structure(WBS) and project schedule. 
Microsoft Project is a software application sold by Microsoft that provides project management tools to manage projects. The program, which has many different versions, allows users to: 1  Understand and control project schedules and finances. 2  Communicate and present project information. 
MICROSOFT PROJECT ONLINE. Microsoft PPM (Microsoft Project Online in the cloud and Microsoft Project Server for on premise) provides the power behind PS+. It enables your organization to quickly start projects, prioritize project portfolio investments, and deliver results with the intended business value. This sophisticated Microsoft Project Online and Project server platform provides the capabilities needed to excel in successful project delivery, from real-time communication and centralized collaboration, to a 360 degree visibility of overall project and resource performance.
Microsoft Word Integration. Task lists are the foundation of every project, and ProjectManager.com gives them the star treatment they deserve. You can easily import your Word task lists into one place, then keep them updated and review status in real-time. Microsoft Project Server. Quickly import your plans from Project or Project Server, then use our web-based software to share them with team members anywhere in the world. As team members make updates, you'll be able to review their changes in real-time and quickly collaborate to stay on schedule.
how to create event handler in project online. Project. Project Online General Questions and Answers. how to create a remote event handler for project online... i want to create a event handler onprojectcreating using CSOM...need Help.. 