Toenail Falling off due to Fungus: Fungus can invade the toenails through tiny cuts or the gaps between the nail and nail bed. It thrives in warm moist conditions. The toenail fungus feeds on keratin (the protein which the nail is made off). If your toenail falls off it is important to keep the toe itself clean, to do this use lukewarm water to clean the area and keep it dry. You will most likely see a new toenail start to grow within a few months. It is also a good idea to use benzalkonium chloride once or twice in a day.
Having a toenail come loose and even go so far as to fall off can be a frightening and disturbing thing, but this information can put your mind at ease and alleviate some of the stress you feel when dealing with such a thing. Believe it or not, this is a common happenstance and is known as onychoptosis. If your toenail falls off it is important to keep the toe itself clean, to do this use lukewarm water to clean the area and keep it dry. You will most likely see a new toenail start to grow within a few months. It is also a good idea to use benzalkonium chloride once or twice in a day.
Wearing of shoes that are smaller in size, can cause injury to the toenail. Large size of the toenails hit the inner surface of the shoe repeatedly and bruises occur in them. When the injury damages the underlying nail bed, the bruised toenail tends to fall off. Home Remedies. 1  Tea tree oil is an excellent remedy for fungal infection. 2  You have to rub undiluted form of tea tree oil on the affected nail and its surrounding areas twice a day, for at least two weeks. 3  Dip your feet into warm apple cider vinegar for about 15 minutes, then dry it off.
The problem of toenail falling off is not something very serious, but still, people get scared and confused about what to do to stop it. This article can serve as a guide for you. Advertisement. Shedding of one or more toenails is a common occurrence. Home Remedies. 1  Tea tree oil is an excellent remedy for fungal infection. 2  You have to rub undiluted form of tea tree oil on the affected nail and its surrounding areas twice a day, for at least two weeks. 3  Dip your feet into warm apple cider vinegar for about 15 minutes, then dry it off.
Toenail Falling off due to Injury: When you run, jog, or play football and are wearing tight shoes, there is the possibility that your toenails can scrape or impact the side of your shoe repeatedly. Sometimes this can cause the blood vessels under the toenail to break which can in turn cause bleeding under the toenail. If your toenail falls off it is important to keep the toe itself clean, to do this use lukewarm water to clean the area and keep it dry. You will most likely see a new toenail start to grow within a few months. It is also a good idea to use benzalkonium chloride once or twice in a day.
Here are some tips to help you keep your toenails from falling off. 1  Wear shoes made of breathable materials that offer stability, protection and balance. 2  Use caution when performing in sports. 3  Wear clean socks and shoes daily. 4  Practice proper hygiene habits on a daily basis. 1 Completely dry your feet after they have come into contact with water. 2  At the first sign of breakage, bandage your toe or seek medical attention. 3  Never rip or tear at a nail that has partially torn. 4  If your toenail is partially detached, hold down the remaining nail with a loose bandage.
If infection hasn't occurred, your nail may fall off when you injure your toe through running, skating, soccer, aerobics..... Putting pressure on the nail as you work out can cause blistering and can eventually cause your nail to drop off. 
If your toenail is falling off and you are uncomfortable with self treatment, you should try to bandage the nail to the nail bed and see a doctor as soon as possible. Otherwise, you may attempt to remove the loose portion, using a nail clipper to prevent accidental tear from the nail bed. 1 Completely dry your feet after they have come into contact with water. 2  At the first sign of breakage, bandage your toe or seek medical attention. 3  Never rip or tear at a nail that has partially torn. 4  If your toenail is partially detached, hold down the remaining nail with a loose bandage.
Nails that fall off because of fungal infection will grow back, but the new nail will probably become infected, similar to the old one. Since the condition rarely goes away on its own, it's smart to talk with a health care provider about an accurate diagnosis and then possible treatments. Onychoptosis caused by fungus isn't that rare a problem — 3 to 5 percent of Americans are affected, as are up to 18 percent of people worldwide. Toenail fungus can cause toenails to do the following: 1  Turn yellow, brown, or white. 2  Become thick and overgrown. 3  Crumble and fall off.
Dear Reader, The loss of a toenail, also called onychoptosis (which literally means falling nail in Greek), can be largely blamed on two major culprits — fungus and injury. Fungus Several different types of microscopic fungi can cause onychoptosis by feeding on keratin, the tough protein that makes up toenails. Onychoptosis caused by fungus isn't that rare a problem — 3 to 5 percent of Americans are affected, as are up to 18 percent of people worldwide. Toenail fungus can cause toenails to do the following: 1  Turn yellow, brown, or white. 2  Become thick and overgrown. 3  Crumble and fall off.