1 Subsidence sinkholes are diagnostic landforms of karst, which form in unconsolidated soils or drift deposits overlying cavernous limestone. 2  The underlying limestone karst topography allows water to flow in abundant underground rivers, feeding the numerous springs, which flow into the many creeks and streams. 
An area of irregular limestone in which erosion has produced fissures, sinkholes, underground streams, and caverns. German, after the Karst, a limestone plateau near Trieste (where geologists first studied karstic landscapes) . Sentence Examples. » more... 1  Thus the scenery of a limestone country depends on the solubility and permeability of the rocks, leading to the typical Karst-formations of caverns, swallowholes and underground stream courses, with the contingent phenomena of dry valleys and natural bridges. 2  By the Karst or Carso Mountains.
Definition of KARST. : an irregular limestone region with sinkholes, underground streams, and caverns. — karst·ic \ˈkaer-ˈkär\ stik. ADJECTIVE. advertisement
Karst Topography. The degree of development of karst landforms varies greatly from region to region. Large drainage systems in karst areas are likely to have both fluvial (surface) and karst (underground) drainage components. As stated in the introduction, the term karst describes a distinctive topography that indicates dissolution of underlying rocks by surface water or ground water. The term karst describes a distinctive topography that indicates dissolution (also called chemical solution) of underlying soluble
The Karst Plateau or the Karst region (Italian: Carso; Slovene: Kras), also simply known as the Karst, is a limestone plateau region extending across the border of southwestern Slovenia and northeastern Italy. 
1 Thus the scenery of a limestone country depends on the solubility and permeability of the rocks, leading to the typical Karst-formations of caverns, swallowholes and underground stream courses, with the contingent phenomena of dry valleys and natural bridges. 2  By the Karst or Carso Mountains. Sentence Examples. » more... 1 
Karst terrain has distinctive characteristics of relief and drainage arising from the solution of soluble bedrock by natural waters. Features of karst terrains may include a variety of sinkholes, solution valleys, underground rivers, caverns, disappearing streams, towers, and distinctive conical hills. Although most karst is developed in limestone (CaCO 3) or dolomite (MgCaCO 3) it also forms in soluble evaporite deposits. 1. Soluble rock at or near the surface (limestone, dolomite, rock salt, gypsum, etc.). Karst is typically associated with carbonates. 2. Dense rock (little interstitial porosity) which is highly jointed. Solution is facilitated by the concentration of groundwater along joints.
Karst topography is a landscape formed from the dissolution of soluble rocks such as limestone, dolomite, and gypsum. It is characterized by underground drainage systems with sinkholes, dolines, and caves. It has also been documented for weathering-resistant rocks, such as quartzite, given the right conditions. Water supplies from wells in karst topography may be unsafe, as the water may have run unimpeded from a sinkhole in a cattle pasture, through a cave and to the well, bypassing the normal filtering that occurs in a porous aquifer.
However, in regions where the dissolved bedrock is covered (perhaps by debris) or confined by one or more superimposed non-soluble rock strata, distinctive karst surface developments might be totally missing. Water supplies from wells in karst topography may be unsafe, as the water may have run unimpeded from a sinkhole in a cattle pasture, through a cave and to the well, bypassing the normal filtering that occurs in a porous aquifer.
karst. an area of limestone terrane characterized by sinks, ravines, and underground streams. Karst, name of limestone plateau N of Trieste]. karst′ic, adj. 