Triceps Brachii Muscle (Lateral Head). The lateral head of the triceps brachii muscle is a muscle of the back of the arm, originating from the back of the humeral shaft and inserting at the elbow. The triceps brachii has three heads (connective immovable muscle) and is the only muscle on the back of the upper arm. Click to read more below. The lateral head of the triceps brachii muscle is a muscle of the back of the arm, originating from the back of the humeral shaft and inserting at the elbow.
Anatomy and supply. The triceps brachii (triceps) is a large, three-headed muscle of the upper arm. 1  long head: originates at the infraglenoid tubercle of the scapula. 2  From there it courses between the teres major and teres minor and divides the axillary space into two halves. 
The triceps brachii muscle (Latin for three-headed muscle of the arm) is the large muscle on the back of the upper limb of many vertebrates. It is the muscle principally responsible for extension of the elbow joint (straightening of the arm). All three heads of the triceps brachii are classically believed to be innervated by the radial nerve. However, a study conducted in 2004 determined that, in 20 cadaveric specimens and 15 surgical dissections on participants, the long head was innervated by a branch of the axillary nerve in all cases.
1. A muscle with two heads or points of origin. 2. The large muscle at the front of the upper arm that flexes and supinates the forearm. Also called the biceps brachi … i. 3. One of the large muscles at the back of the thigh that flexes the knee joint. Also called biceps femoris and a member of the hamstring group.
Triceps brachii. The triceps brachii is a major muscle of the upper arm in the human body. The triceps run along the humerus (the main bone of the upper arm) between the shoulder and the elbow. Along with the biceps, it enables extension and retraction of the forearm.
SHARE SHARE TWEET EMAIL. The triceps brachii, usually just called the triceps, is a three-headed muscle located at the back of the upper arm. These muscles primarily work to extend the elbow, and the long head helps the latissimus dorsi muscle, located on the back, to bring the arm toward the body. Strong triceps contribute to a powerful and toned upper body and can help you perform many daily functions and athletic activities with ease.
This muscle flexes the arm and forearm. Biceps femoris: located at the thigh, its origin is from the ischial tuberosity of the pelvic bone and from the linea aspera of the feumur bone, and inserts in the head of the fibula bone and lateral epicondyle of the tibia bone. A muscle with two heads or points of origin. 2. The large muscle at the front of the upper arm that flexes and supinates the forearm. Also called the biceps brachi … i. 3. One of the large muscles at the back of the thigh that flexes the knee joint. Also called biceps femoris and a member of the hamstring group.
They are the largest muscles in the upper arms. As with the Bicep muscle which has two heads and therefore two origin points, the Triceps muscles which has three heads has three different origin points. These origin attachment points are as follows; 1.
The Triceps Brachii muscles are located on the back of the humerus and more commonly referred to as the triceps. They derive their name from a Latin phrase meaning “three headed arm muscle”, due to the fact that the triceps muscles have three muscle heads and therefore have three separate origin attachment points. These three heads are called the Lateral, Medial and Long and they connect the Humerus, Scapula to the Ulna. As with the Bicep muscle which has two heads and therefore two origin points, the Triceps muscles which has three heads has three different origin points. These origin attachment points are as follows; 1.