Can anyone who has advertised on facebook describe how much it cost you overall? Also, is there anyone who can mention if facebook advertising (and the specific type of facebook ad-social ad/etc, age group) was positive or negative for them in their ventures? I'd really appreciate... Best Answer: Setting up an ad account and advertising on Facebook is easy. You can do a CPC or CPM campaign and the minimum for both is $5. Like Google Adwords, you set your own budget.
CPM (cost-per-mille): With cost-per-impression you pay when Facebook shows your ad 1000 times. (Impressions are the number of times your ad is shown to a user on Facebook). In Q3 of 2012 the average CPC was $0.62 USD. Check out the graphs below to see how the average CPC changed from Q2 2013 - Q3 2013. The report findings are based on 200 billion Facebook Ads. The default pricing option that Facebook sets for your ad is a “cost per click” (CPC) bid.
CPC vs. CPM. Facebook advertising lets users choose between CPC (Cost Per Click) and CPM (Cost Per Thousand Impressions) advertising. CPC advertising is based on the number of people who click through to your website. If no one clicks through to your site, you don't pay anything beyond the daily minimum charge of $1. While other forms of advertising can cost your company hundreds or even thousands of dollars, Facebook advertising can be purchased for as much or as little as you want to pay. If you want to drop a thousand bucks on a Facebook ad, you can.
CPM vs. CPC. CPM stands for cost per thousand impressions, which means you pay for how many times people see your ad. A CPM of 5 for example would mean you pay $5 per 1000 people your ad is shown to. CPC stands for cost per click. If your CPC is $1 then that means you are paying $1 each time someone clicks on your ad. In the next section you will be able to choose whether you want Facebook to Optimize your ad spend so you get the greatest amounts of likes, clicks (CPC) or impressions (CPM) for your ad. 
Facebook Advertising Costs Also on the Upswing. Globally, Facebook ads cost 21 cents per click in the fourth quarter of 2013 when purchased on a cost-per-click basis. The average cost-per-click for Facebook ads (when purchased on a per-click basis) increased 24% in 2013, world-wide. (this is not a surprise. Popularity always increases costs. (some of this is explained by brands chasing eyeballs due to the big drop in organic reach for Facebook posts). Costs to advertise to mobile audiences on Facebook are quite a bit higher than the norm, with costs per click at 35 cents in fourth quarter of 2013, and costs per 1,000 impressions (CPM) at $5.41.
The Minimum Spend For Facebook Advertising. The minimum daily advertising spend on Facebook is a $1.00 per day. The minimum cost per click is 1 cent, however, you are unlikely to see any clicks if you bid that low. The same report mentioned above indicated that the cost of advertising per like worked out to be in the 50 to 80 cent range per like. For more on how to get customers for your business on Facebook, see our full series on the topic here.
But the best part about Facebook advertising is the price. While other forms of advertising can cost your company hundreds or even thousands of dollars, Facebook advertising can be purchased for as much or as little as you want to pay. If you want to drop a thousand bucks on a Facebook ad, you can. But if you want to limit your spending to $25, you can do that, too. Setting Up a Facebook Ad. The process for setting up a Facebook ad is simple and convenient
In today’s article we are going to discuss how much Facebook advertising will cost your business. (If you don’t know much about Facebook advertising see our full guide on the topic here). Want $50 in free advertising on Bing! – Click Here. The same report mentioned above indicated that the cost of advertising per like worked out to be in the 50 to 80 cent range per like. For more on how to get customers for your business on Facebook, see our full series on the topic here.
When setting up your ad campaign, you can choose which option you want. In the United States, the average click costs advertisers $0.24 and the average CPM cost $0.66. However, these numbers varied greatly from advertiser to advertiser based on a number of factors. One Factor Is Type Of Business. The same report mentioned above indicated that the cost of advertising per like worked out to be in the 50 to 80 cent range per like. For more on how to get customers for your business on Facebook, see our full series on the topic here.
If you just spend $1 per day on Facebook ads, you will get in front of 4,000 people that wouldn't have seen you otherwise. If you are doing that and your competitors aren't, you win the awareness game in your niche. 