Vegetable shortening has a neutral flavor, unlike butter or lard, and can be used for applications where strong fat flavors are not desired. Some vegetable shortenings have artifical butter flavor added to them and are used as an inexpensive replacement for butter. Shortening refers to the process of a fat interfering with the formation of a gluten matrix in dough. This process is important for many baked goods, such as pie crusts, because gluten creates a gummy or chewy end product.
Shortening is any fat that is solid at room temperature and used to make crumbly pastry and other food products. Shortening is used in pastries that should not be elastic, such as cake. Although butter is solid at room temperature and is frequently used in making pastry, the term shortening seldom refers to butter, but is more closely related to margarine.
Shortening. In general, the term shortening can apply to any oil-or. -based ingredient – liquid or solid-used in baking. More specifically, recipes use the term to mean solid vegetable shortening rather than those made from animal fats (including lard, which is from pork). Vegetable-based shortening is lower in. than. . • Shortening should not be used in place of oils for salads, but it can be melted and used in many recipes. • Shortening is less liquid than oils and butter. Just add extra water to the recipe. • For increased flavor, include some butter and reduce the like amount of shortening.
Vegetable oil like soybean or cottonseed oil is used to make a solid fat, which is referred to as shortening. The name shortening is derived because when it is used along with flour, it shortens the gluten strands. Shortening is 100% fat, as compared to 80% fat in butter or lard. Butter or Margarine. These two ingredients can be used to replace shortening for any recipe. You can use around 1 cup of butter or margarine, when the recipe calls for 1 cup of shortening. It is also important to use less salt when using butter or margarine instead
Shortening is a type of solid fat that is made from vegetable oils, such as soybean and cottonseed oil. Shortening seems to get its name from the fact that it shortens gluten strands in wheat by adding fat. Since it is 100%, as opposed to the 80% fat content of butter or lard, it results in a very tender baked good. Shortening can be melted or softened and creamed into a mixture. Since it is all fat, it usually produces the most tender and crumbly results in a cake, cookie or pie crust, but it does not have the flavor of butter, nor can it impart the flakiness that butter can give to, for instance, a pie crust. Nicole.
Best Answer: fat! use butter, vegetable oil or margarine! use in equal amounts as listed for shortening! they ere referring to something like crisco shortening! I always substitute butter for shortening--always, always, always. I just can't get past the can of Crisco. Shortening is vegetable oil that has been solidified. You've probably heard of Crisco-that is a brand of shortening. You can use margarine or butter-you would use the same measurement amount.
Shortening is any type of solid fat used to prevent the formation of a gluten matrix in baked goods. Lard, hydrogenated (solidified) oils, and even butter can be used as shortening, although in the mainstream market shortening often refers solely to hydrogenated oils. Vegetable shortenings, or hydrogenated vegetable oils, are extremely shelf stable and require no refrigeration. Shortening refers to the process of a fat interfering with the formation of a gluten matrix in dough. This process is important for many baked goods, such as pie crusts, because gluten creates a gummy or chewy end product.
Shortening is another name for the fat used in making pastry, bread or in this case a cake. You may use Crisco, or other shortening, real butter, or some margarines. Shortening is vegetable oil that has been solidified. You've probably heard of Crisco-that is a brand of shortening. You can use margarine or butter-you would use the same measurement amount.
Shortening is fat used for cooking. It can be made from animal, vegetable or compound manufactured substances. Margarine and Crisco are examples of manufactured shortening products. 