Adam Armstrong's stepdad booked a flight with Ryanair for Adam but put West as his surname by mistake. The fee for changing the name back to Armstrong would have been £220. So instead of paying that, he renamed himself and fast-tracked a new passport for £103. If you can wait it costs less, as little as £72.50. Adam's stepdad got it wrong because his surname is West on Facebook but he only did that as a joke. Ryanair says the normal fee to change a name on a ticket is £110 (if booked via Ryanair's website) but his girlfriend India was on it too, which doubled the cost.
One week later we found out she was 6 months pregnant. Ryanair will not refund the cost of £350 nor will they waive the fee of £110 for each for a name change if I want to sell them. It is not as though they have to do anything as the change can be made via the website. I am seriously out of pocket. But if you are just changing the spelling of a name or from middle name to surname and vice versa, it only costs £10 or even free. However, if you are changing the name to another passenger then I’m afraid the £110 fee applies. Here are different ways to contact Ryanair Customer Service.
For example, Ryanair charges £100 to change a name and many of their flights are cheaper than this. Cancellations. Most cheap flights are non refundable and if you're flying with a low cost airline then no flights are refundable, unless it's an extreme case. The cost of changing a flight or flight date can vary from £15 per person plus fare up to £40 per person. The price for changing the name on a ticket varies from £25 per person with up to £120 and some airlines don't allow you do it at all. If you need to cancel your flight and want a refund then the charge for this vary from £15 to £40 and some airlines don't offer any refunds at all
For instance, where the cost of a single flight has increased by £50, the cost to amend a name on a booking with BmiBaby would be £90, £80 with Easyjet and £77.50 with Jet2. Over the phone with Flybe, it would cost £82.50. Added to that would be the cost to change the details on the return ticket. 
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: According to their table of fees a flight change will cost you £35.00p/€35.00 per one way flight if done on-line, or £55.00p/€55.00 per flight via the call centre. http://www.ryanair.com/en/questions/tabl... I need to change a flight,the name on the ticket will be the same, but I need to change the destination. Source(s): cost change flight ryanair: https://biturl.im/cZgWv. Pattie · 2 months ago. Thumbs up.
Changing a name with Ryanair could be costly. But if you are just changing the spelling of a name or from middle name to surname and vice versa, it only costs £10 or even free. However, if you are changing the name to another passenger then I’m afraid the £110 fee applies. Here are different ways to contact Ryanair Customer Service.
'It's simply worth being aware of these rules when booking a flight, especially if your relationship is on the rocks!'. We've put together a list airline and how much, if possible, it will cost you to change name details on a flight ticket. But it will cost you. Most airlines will charge a fee for changing the name details on flights. However, some airlines don't allow you to transfer name details. If your airline provider agrees to change the details then you will have to let them know in advance, before checking in.
Best Answer: According to their table of fees a flight change will cost you £35.00p/€35.00 per one way flight if done on-line, or £55.00p/€55.00 per flight via the call centre. I need to change a flight,the name on the ticket will be the same, but I need to change the destination. Source(s): cost change flight ryanair: https://biturl.im/cZgWv. Pattie · 2 months ago. Thumbs up.