Symptoms of Shingles: Introduction. Symptoms of shingles affect the nerves and the skin and can occur in almost any part of the body. However, shingles most often affects one side of the trunk. Symptoms generally begin with sensations of itching, tingling, and/or a severe burning pain in the affected area. The pain can be severe.
In other cases, the rash occurs on one side of the face. In rare cases (usually among people with weakened immune systems), the rash may be more widespread and look similar to a chickenpox rash. Shingles can affect the eye and cause loss of vision. Other symptoms of shingles can include. 1  Fever. 2  Headache. 3  Chills. 4  Upset stomach.
Shingles is an infection of a nerve area caused by the varicella-zoster virus. It causes pain and a rash along a band of skin supplied by the affected nerve. Symptoms usually go within 2-4 weeks. Pain sometimes persists after the rash has gone, more commonly in people over the age of 50. The virus usually affects one nerve only, on one side of the body. Symptoms occur in the area of skin that the nerve supplies. The usual symptoms are pain and a rash. Occasionally, two or three nerves next to each other are affected.
Shingles (herpes zoster) occurs when the dormant chickenpox virus (varicella-zoster) is reactivated in your nerve tissues. Early signs of shingles include tingling and localized pain. Most, but not all, people with shingles develop a blistering rash. Early symptoms of shingles may include fever and general weakness. You may also feel areas of pain, burning, or a tingling sensation. A few days later, the first signs of rash appear. You may begin to notice pink or red blotchy patches on one side of your body. These patches cluster along nerve pathways.
Shingles Symptoms: Before the Rash. The pain of shingles may develop even when there is no rash. The patient may notice several days to a week of burning pain and sensitive skin before the rash appears. In these cases it may be difficult to determine the cause of the often severe pain. The shingles rash appears as painful skin blisters that appear on only one side of the face or body along the distribution of nerves on the skin. Typically, the rash occurs along your chest, back, abdomen, or face, but it may also affect other parts of the body like the limbs, neck, or lower back.
The signs and symptoms of shingles usually affect only a small section of one side of your body. These signs and symptoms may include: 1  Pain, burning, numbness or tingling. 2  Sensitivity to touch. 3  A red rash that begins a few days after the pain. 4  Fluid-filled blisters that break open and crust over. 5  Itching. 
Shingles is a painful rash that develops on one side of the face or body. The rash forms blisters that typically scab over in 7 to 10 days and clears up within 2 to 4 weeks. Before the rash develops, people often have pain, itching, or tingling in the area where the rash will develop. In rare cases (usually among people with weakened immune systems), the rash may be more widespread and look similar to a chickenpox rash. Shingles can affect the eye and cause loss of vision. Other symptoms of shingles can include. 1  Fever. 2  Headache. 3  Chills. 4  Upset stomach.
In this type, the shingles rash appears around your eye and over your forehead and nose. Ophthalmic shingles may be accompanied by headache. Other symptoms include redness and swelling of the eye, inflammation of your cornea or iris, and drooping eyelid. Early symptoms of shingles may include fever and general weakness. You may also feel areas of pain, burning, or a tingling sensation. A few days later, the first signs of rash appear. You may begin to notice pink or red blotchy patches on one side of your body. These patches cluster along nerve pathways.
Shingles-Symptoms. When the virus that causes chickenpox reactivates, it causes shingles. Early symptoms of shingles include headache, sensitivity to light, and flu-like symptoms without a fever. You may then feel itching, tingling, or pain where a band, strip, or small area of rash may appear several days or weeks later. Shingles develops in stages: 1  Pain, burning, tickling, tingling, and/or numbness occurs in the area around the affected nerves several days or weeks before a rash appears. 2  The discomfort usually occurs on the chest or back, but it may occur on the belly, head, face, neck, or one arm or leg.