High ALT levels in fatty liver and Elevated ALT levels. High ALT levels in fatty liver or elevated ALT levels in fatty liver (also called Alanine Transaminase and SGPT) in a fatty liver blood test can be a sign of a the severity of fatty liver disease from mild to serious. If the blood test shows elevated ALT levels outside the normal range, even a small amount, fatty liver and other liver disorders might be the cause.
^ Back to top. Normally, levels of ALT in the blood are low. Very high levels of ALT (more than 10 times normal) are usually due to acute hepatitis, sometimes due to a viral infection. In acute hepatitis, ALT levels usually stay high for about 1-2 months but can take as long as 3-6 months to return to normal. The alanine aminotransferase (ALT) test is typically used to detect liver injury. It is often ordered in conjunction with aspartate aminotransferase (AST) or as part of a liver panel to screen for and/or help diagnose liver disease.
Although levels of ALT and AST can be extremely elevated (exceeding 2,000 U per L in cases of hepatocyte injury and necrosis related to drugs, toxins, ischemia, and hepatitis), elevations less than five times the upper limit of normal (i.e., about 250 U per L and below) are much more common in primary care medicine. 
Normal blood test results for typical liver function tests include: 1  ALT. 7 to 55 units per liter (U/L). 2  AST. 8 to 48 U/L. 3  ALP. 45 to 115 U/L. 4  Albumin. 5  3.5 to 5.0 grams per deciliter (g/dL). 6  Total protein. 7  6.3 to 7.9 g/dL. 8  Bilirubin. 9  0.1 to 1.2 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL). 
The normal level of ALT is the bloodstream is 5 to 45 U/L (units per liter). This range can slightly vary depending where you take the blood test. If the blood test shows elevated ALT levels outside the normal range, even a small amount, fatty liver and other liver disorders might be the cause.
191 Followers. A. The normal range of values for AST (SGOT) is from 5 to 40 units per liter of serum (the liquid part of the blood). The normal range of values for ALT (SGPT) is from 7 to 56 units per liter of serum. This answer should not be considered medical advice... This answer should not be considered medical advice and should not take the place of a doctor’s visit.
1 Read 68 Stories. 2  Share Your Story. 3  The normal range of values for AST (SGOT) is about 5 to 40 units per liter of serum (the liquid part of the blood). 4  The normal range of values for ALT (SGPT) is about 7 to 56 units per liter of serum. 1 The normal range of values for AST (SGOT) is about 5 to 40 units per liter of serum (the liquid part of the blood). 2
With heart or muscle injury, AST is often much higher than ALT (often 3-5 times as high) and levels tend to stay higher than ALT for longer than with liver injury. AST is often performed together with the ALT test or as part of a liver panel. Very high levels of AST (more than 10 times normal) are usually due to acute hepatitis, sometimes due to a viral infection. With acute hepatitis, AST levels usually stay high for about 1-2 months but can take as long as 3-6 months to return to normal.
Normal levels of AST and ALT may slightly vary depending on the individual laboratory's reference values. Typically the range for normal AST is reported between 10 to 40 units per liter and ALT between 7 to 56 units per liter. Mild elevations are generally considered to be 2-3 times higher than the normal range.