Whippets also participate in dog sports such as lure coursing, agility, and flyball. Whippets were originally greyhounds that were deemed unsuitable for hunting because of their size. They were returned to their peasant breeders after being maimed so that they could not be used to hunt and break the Forest law.
The Whippet (also English Whippet or Snap dog) is a dog breed of medium-size. They are a sighthound breed that originated in England, where they descended from greyhounds. Whippets were originally greyhounds that were deemed unsuitable for hunting because of their size. They were returned to their peasant breeders after being maimed so that they could not be used to hunt and break the Forest law.
As a breed, whippets possess many common characteristics that should be considered when you're deciding whether this is the breed for you. Dogs are, after all, not generic, and a whippet is very, very different to live with than a setter or a shepherd. 
Best Answer: Firstly, don't worry, the drug you took has no long term ill-effects! Whippet or whippets is/are a street-term for small canisters (usually used for making whipped cream at home or in restaurants) containing Nitrous oxide (N2O), or more commonly referred to as 'laughing gas'. the other night my friends were talking about a time they were doing whippets i just went along with it and pretending like i knew what they were talking about because i was too embarrassed to ask. 1 following.
A single charger. A whipped cream charger (also called whippits, whippets (from the brand name Whip-It), nossies, nangs, or chargers) is a steel cylinder or cartridge filled with nitrous oxide (N 2 O) that is used as a whipping agent in a whipped cream dispenser. 
That's why they call it laughing gas, Stratyner told HealthPop. Nitrous oxide is also found in whipped cream aerosol cans and in similar canisters that are sometimes abused. Nitrous abusers sometimes take the canister, empty the gas into a balloon and inhale it. Nitrous oxide is also used in race cars to boost engine power. Getty Images. (CBS) Whippets are in the spotlight now that actress Demi Moore was reportedly hospitalized after using the whipped cream chargers filled with nitrous oxide.
More popularly known as laughing gas, or whippets (when the gas is inhaled from a whipped cream dispenser), nitrous oxide is a colorless, sweet-smelling gas that causes giddiness, a dreamy or floating sensation, and a pain-free state. 
Report Abuse. whippets are balloons of nitrous oxide (NO2). it is usually used as a whip cream propellant and it can be used to relieve anxiety in surgeries. they get high for 30 seconds, and entirely extreme intense out of world 30 seconds, then come right back down. the other night my friends were talking about a time they were doing whippets i just went along with it and pretending like i knew what they were talking about because i was too embarrassed to ask. 1 following.