The soleus muscle acts as an agonist for the anterior cruciate ligament. Elias JJ(1), Faust AF, Chu YH, Chao EY, Cosgarea AJ. Author information: (1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery and the Orthopaedic Biomechanics Laboratory, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland 21093, USA. The average anterior and posterior tibial translations were greatest at 50 degrees of flexion. CONCLUSIONS: The soleus muscle is capable of acting as an agonist for the anterior cruciate ligament and the gastrocnemius muscle can act as an antagonist.
Agonist and Antagonist Muscles Summary. Agonist / prime mover – muscle directly responsible for the movement at a joint. Antagonist – muscle that is relaxing and has the. opposite action. to the agonist
In humans, the gastrocnemius muscle (/ˌɡaestrɒkˈniːmiəs/ ˌɡæstrɒkˈniːmiəs /or/ ; ˌɡaestrəkˈniːmiəs ˌɡæstrəkˈniːmiəs; Plural, gastrocnemii Latin from greek γαστήρ stomach (and) κνήμη; knēmē leg meaning stomach, of leg referring to the bulging shape of) the calf is a very powerful superficial bipennate muscle that is in the back part of the. lower leg The plantaris muscle and a portion of its tendon run between the two muscles, which is involved in locking the knee from the standing position. Since the anterior compartment of the leg is lateral to the tibia, the bulge of muscle medial to the tibia on the anterior side is actually the posterior compartment.
agonist muscle. Controlled movements involve two opposing muscles: the agonist muscle produces the main action, while the antagonist muscle produces the opposite action to a lesser degree. The balance between agonist and antagonist muscles allows precise control of the final action. See also: muscle. agonist muscle prime mover (see agonist). antagonist muscle muscles or muscle groups which neutralize action of another muscle or muscle group (see antagonist; muscle contraction). 
Agonist and Antagonists Below is a chart showing the main muscle group pairings in terms of Agonists (Prime Mover, Contracting) and Antagonists (Relaxing to allow movement).The Agonist is generally the muscle we are exercising, contracting and shortening to create movement. 
This study verified that the gastrocnemius muscle is an antagonist of the ACL. Since the gastrocnemius is a flexor of the knee, this finding may have important clinical ramifications in ACL rehabilitation since flexor torques are generally thought to be protective of a healing ACL graft. [PubMed-indexed for MEDLINE]. The gastrocnemius muscle is an antagonist of the anterior cruciate ligament. Fleming BC(1), Renstrom PA, Ohlen G, Johnson RJ, Peura GD, Beynnon BD, Badger GJ.
Antagonist. An antagonist is a muscle that is capable of opposing the movement of a joint by producing torque that is opposite to a certain joint action. This is usually a muscle that is located on the opposite side of the joint from the agonist. 
Answers. Best Answer: The gastrocnemius is the antagonist to tibialis anterior. That is, if the gastrocnemius (calf muscle) is short/tight, then the tibialis anterior becomes long and weak. Source(s): http://www.sherrymclaughlin.com/tag/over... 
HYPOTHESIS: The soleus muscle acts as an anterior cruciate ligament agonist and the gastrocnemius muscle acts as an anterior cruciate ligament antagonist. STUDY DESIGN: Controlled laboratory study. The average anterior and posterior tibial translations were greatest at 50 degrees of flexion. CONCLUSIONS: The soleus muscle is capable of acting as an agonist for the anterior cruciate ligament and the gastrocnemius muscle can act as an