INTRINSIC RENAL CAUSES. Intrinsic renal causes are also important sources of acute kidney injury and can be categorized by the component of the kidney that is primarily affected (i.e., tubular, glomerular, interstitial, or vascular). Acute tubular necrosis is the most common type of intrinsic acute kidney injury in hospitalized patients.
The term glomerulonephritis (GN) covers a group of conditions in which there is injury in the glomerulus, the filtering unit of the kidney. This can occur either as a primary glomerular disease, or secondary to drugs, infections or tumours (see Secondary Glomerular Disease, pp 464–466 of this issue).
The term ‘glomerulonephritis’ (GN) covers a group of conditions in which there is injury in the glomerulus, the filtering unit of the kidney. This can occur either as a primary glomerular disease, or secondary to drugs, infections or tumours (see pages 497–99).
There has been considerable recent interest in the role of intrinsic glomerular cells in the initiation and/or progression of glomerular injury. Much attention has focused on the podocyte 11 (also known as the visceral glomerular epithelial cell, Figure 1).
The two basic types of glomerular disease include nephritic and nephrotic, but with some diseases, the two types can overlap. (See Differential diagnosis and evaluation of glomerular disease .). Nephritic — The key feature of nephritic disease is blood in the urine (hematuria).
The complement system in glomerulonephritis. The association of abnormalities of the complement system with renal disease is well established. Initial observations included alterations in the serum concentration of specific complement components and/or glomerular complement deposits.
The ddx of intrinsic renal disease is: glomerular, tubular, interstitial, or vascular 3. Glomerulonephritis presents with an active sediment (RBC, protein) and nephrotic syndrome presents with a bland sediment (heavy protein, otherwise negative U/A).
Intrinsic acute renal failure is subdivided into four categories: tubular disease, glomerular disease, vascular disease and interstitial disease. In intrinsic acute renal failure, the renal parenchyma is injured. The damage to tubule cells leads to certain urine microscopic findings (Table 63 and Figures 2 and 3) .