Silvia /sil-via/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced SIL-vee-ah. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Silvia is woods, forest . Variant of Sylvia. Shakespeare used Silvia for a heroine's name in Two Gentlemen of Verona. Kreatif forms: Sievia, Silphia, Sinvia. 
Silvia is a form of the name Silvius. Variants of the name Silvia include Sylvia. The names Silvija, Sylvi, Sylvie, Sylwia, Szilvia are all forms of Silvia. Silvia falls into the tree name category. 
Latin Meaning: The name Silvia is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Silvia is: From the forest. Rhea Silvia was the mother of Rome's founders, Remus and Romulus. American Meaning: The name Silvia is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Silvia is: From the forest.
Sylvia is not a name in the Bible, so it has no Biblical meaning.  As a name it derives from the Latin Silvae meaning Forest.  Therefore, Sylvia is a person of the for … est or from the forest. Aaron McClellan. 
Sylvia is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Syl-vi-a. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 493 in baby name popularity for girls with 630 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Sylvia Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Sylvia has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Sylvia to other names. Sylvia is a variant spelling of Silvia. Sylvia falls into the tree name category. English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland.
Sylvia /syl-via/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced SIL-vee-ah. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Sylvia is woods, forest . The Latin form Silvia was more popular for centuries until recently. Rhea Silvia was an ancient nature goddess, mother to the twin founders of Rome, Romulus and Remus. Sylvia is a very prominent first name for females (#120 out of 4276, Top 3%) and also a very prominent last name for all people (#5480 out of 150436, Top 4%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Sylvia for girls.
The name Sylvia is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Sylvia is: From the forest. American Meaning: The name Sylvia is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Sylvia is: From the forest.
Name is borne from the Latin name Silvia,Which generate from the word Silva means Forest. Silvia name was borne in Roman mythology from Rhea Silvia the mother of the legendary founders of Rome the twins Romulus and Remus. Silvia is the feminine from of the German Silvius. 
Below is a charted comparison of the popularity of the girl name Sylvia and associated names. The only other popular variation form of Sylvia (#493 the previous year) is Silvia. Sylvia is a very prominent first name for females (#120 out of 4276, Top 3%) and also a very prominent last name for all people (#5480 out of 150436, Top 4%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Sylvia for girls.