BLARNEY IRELAND. Some great sights to visit include the legendary Blarney Stone at Blarney Castle. For many of the visitors to Blarney, their first priority is to kiss the famous Blarney Stone high up on the Castle battlements. Tradition holds that those who kiss the Blarney Stone will be endowed with the gift of eloquence - the gift of the gab, as the locals call it.
Blarney. Blarney, set in wooded countryside and rolling hills, is an ideal base for touring Ireland’s Southwest. Blarney Castle was originally the seat of the great McCarthy Clan of the Barony of Muskerry. On top of the castle, in the battlements, is the Blarney Stone. Tradition holds that those who kiss the Blarney Stone will be endowed with the gift of eloquence or as locals say “the gift of the gab”, the ability to tell someone go to hell in such a way that they will look forward to the journey”. One of the first things to impress the visitor to Blarney is the well preserved village green. Blarney is one of only three villages in Ireland with such an amenity and today it continues to be a focal point of village life.
Welcome to the Blarney Stone! The Blarney Stone Castle in County Cork Ireland, is famous for housing the “Blarney Stone” which gives the “gift of gab” to all who kiss it. A pub, formally known as a “Public House” in Ireland, is a place to meet and greet and is the focal point of the community. Put the two together and you have the Blarney Stone Irish Pub & Restaurant in West Chester. Here, hardworking townspeople, university students, and passersby, share in joyful conversations while enjoying fine food and spirits.
the home of the Blarney Stone. Built nearly six hundred years ago by one of Ireland's greatest chieftans, Cormac MacCarthy, and has been attracting attention ever since. Over the last few hundred years, millions have flocked to Blarney making it a world landmark and one of Ireland's greatest treasures. Now that might have something to do with the Blarney Stone, the legendary Stone of Eloquence, found at the top of our tower. Kiss it and you'll never again be lost for words.
The stone was set into a tower of the castle in 1446. The castle is a popular tourist site in Ireland, attracting visitors from all over the world to kiss the stone and tour the castle and its gardens. The word blarney has come to mean clever, flattering, or coaxing talk. For he is a pilgrim from the Blarney stone.. Echoing the supposed power of the stone, an Irish bard of the early 19th century, Francis Sylvester Mahony, added a number of (humorous) lines to Richard Alfred Millikin's . The Groves of Blarney  (right).
Explore the Castle. There are those who think that you come to Blarney Castle only to see the Stone. But most leave knowing that the Blarney Stone is only a part of our attraction. Our History Ours is a beguiling history that stretches back across the generations. Over the last few hundred years, millions have flocked to Blarney making it a world landmark and one of Ireland's greatest treasures. Now that might have something to do with the Blarney Stone, the legendary Stone of Eloquence, found at the top of our tower. Kiss it and you'll never again be lost for words.
The Blarney Stone. The Blarney Stone (Irish: Cloch na Blarnan) is a block of Carboniferous limestone built into the battlements of Blarney Castle, Blarney, about 8 kilometres (5 mi) from Cork, Ireland. For he is a pilgrim from the Blarney stone.. Echoing the supposed power of the stone, an Irish bard of the early 19th century, Francis Sylvester Mahony, added a number of (humorous) lines to Richard Alfred Millikin's . The Groves of Blarney  (right).
The ritual of kissing the Blarney Stone, according to the castle's proprietors, has been performed by millions of people, including world statesmen, literary giants [and] legends of the silver screen. The kiss, however, is not casually achieved. For he is a pilgrim from the Blarney stone.. Echoing the supposed power of the stone, an Irish bard of the early 19th century, Francis Sylvester Mahony, added a number of (humorous) lines to Richard Alfred Millikin's . The Groves of Blarney  (right).
The Stone of Eloquence. For over 200 years, world statesmen, literary giants, and legends of the silver screen have joined the millions of pilgrims climbing the steps to kiss the Blarney Stone and gain the gift of eloquence. Its powers are unquestioned but its story still creates debat
A wee bit of that gift has traveled to the Blarney Stone Pub in West Chester, Pennsylvania where hardworking townspeople, university students, and passersby, have shared in plentiful conversations while enjoying fine food and spirits. 