CNS = central nervous system (brain and spinal cord) PNS = peripheral nervous system (that part of the nervous system that extends outside the central nervous system). 12 people found this useful. Peripheral Nervous System (PNS)Contains all nerves outside of the brain & spinal cord.Somatic Nervous System (Voluntary)Two types: Sensory (or afferent) and motor (or efferent …) nerves. 
Some differences between the peripheral nervous system (PNS) and the central nervous system (CNS): 1  In the CNS, collections of neurons are called nuclei. 2  In the PNS, collections of neurons are called ganglia. 3  In the CNS, collections of axons are called tracts. 4  In the PNS, collections of axons are called nerves. 
The prime function served by the Central Nervous System is that along with the PNS it contributes a huge control on the organism’s behavior. On the other hand the main function of the Peripheral Nervous System is to connect the Central Nervous System with the various organs in the body and the limbs. Summary: 1. CNS refers to the Central Nervous System whereas PNS refers to the Peripheral Nervous System. 2. The Central Nervous System comprises of the brain and the spinal cord whereas the Peripheral Nervous System comprises of the autonomic nervous system and the somatic nervous system. 3
The main function of the PNS is to connect the central nervous system (CNS) to the limbs and organs, essentially serving as a communication relay going back and forth between the brain and the extremities. The peripheral nervous system is divided into the somatic nervous system and the autonomic nervous system; some textbooks also include sensory systems. The cranial nerves are part of the PNS with the exception of cranial nerve II, the optic nerve, along with the retina
CNS vs PNS. CNS is the Central Nervous System that functions in order to coordinate each and every activity taking place in all the parts of the body of every bilaterian organism (animals evolved to a better organic stage than sponges and jellyfish). Summary: 1. CNS refers to the Central Nervous System whereas PNS refers to the Peripheral Nervous System. 2. The Central Nervous System comprises of the brain and the spinal cord whereas the Peripheral Nervous System comprises of the autonomic nervous system and the somatic nervous system. 3
Everything else but the CNS it is known as the peripheral nervous system. The peripheral nervous system or PNS contains the nerves, which leave the brain and the spinal cord and travel to certain areas of the body. The peripheral nervous system's main job is to send information gathered by the body's sensory receptors to the CNS as quickly as possible. Once the CNS has understood the information, the PNS will relay the specific orders back out the body. These nerves which carry information in a way of nerve impulses to and from the brain are called cranial nerves. The nerves that carry impulse to and are carrying information from the spine are called spinal nerves.
PNS (peripheral nervous system): That portion of the nervous system that is outside the brain and spinal cord. The peripheral nervous system (PNS) is one of the two major divisions of the nervous system. The other is the central nervous system (CNS) which is made up of the brain and spinal cord. The nerves in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) connect the central nervous system (CNS) to sensory organs (such as the eye and ear), other organs of the body, muscles, blood vessels and glands. 
“Peripheral nerve” is a term used synonymously to describe the peripheral nervous system. The peripheral nervous system is a network of 43 pairs of motor and sensory nerves that connect the brain and spinal cord (the central nervous system) to the entire human body. These nerves control the functions of sensation, movement and motor coordination