Mucoid degeneration of the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) is a little-known entity. The clinical presentation is one of posterior pain with limited flexion. Its interstitial nature within the ACL structure contrasts with synovial cyst of the ACL. The objective of our study was to analyze the semiological context of ACL mucoid degeneration and the outcome of treatment by partial or total arthroscopic ACL resection. Our hypothesis is that partial or total ACL resection improves pain symptoms and flexion limitation, but at the expense of residual anterior laxity.
mucoid degeneration. n. The degeneration of connective tissue into a gelatinous or mucoid substance. A nonspecific term for connective tissue changes that occur in various sites (e.g., the mitral valve) where there is disruption of the stroma due to an accumulation of occidian sulfate, a glycosaminoglycan. macular degeneration. degenerative changes in the macula retinae. mucoid degeneration. degeneration with increased mucin which can be epithelial or mesenchymal in origin. mucous degeneration. degeneration with accumulation of mucus in epithelial tissues. Called also myxomat
- age related (senescent) degeneration, - congenital or acquired synovial tissue entrapment between ACL fibers. It is postulated that mucoid degeneration may be a predisposing factor to the formation of ACL ganglion cysts. On MRI the ligament is thickened, and ill-defined with a “celery stalk” appearance. It’s signal is increased on all sequences.Intact fibres are best seen on T2 weighted sequences. 
mucoid degeneration degeneration with deposit of myelin and lecithin in the cells. mucous degeneration degeneration with accumulation of mucus in epithelial tissues. myofibrillar degeneration damage to selective cardiac cells when surrounding interstitial cells, nerves, and capillaries remain viable. macular degeneration. degenerative changes in the macula retinae. mucoid degeneration. degeneration with increased mucin which can be epithelial or mesenchymal in origin. mucous degeneration. degeneration with accumulation of mucus in epithelial tissues. Called also myxomat
mucoid degeneration. n. The degeneration of connective tissue into a gelatinous or mucoid substance. A nonspecific term for connective tissue changes that occur in various sites (e.g., the mitral valve) where there is disruption of the stroma due to an accumulation of occidian sulfate, a glycosaminoglycan.
Abstract. Unlike meniscal tears and chondral defects, the mucoid degeneration of the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) is a rare cause of knee pain and there have been no case reports of mucoid degeneration of both the ACL and the posterior cruciate ligament (PCL). It was thought that this patient had knee pain due to mucoid degeneration of the PCL as well as the ACL. MRI is the most useful examination for differentiating between mucoid degeneration of the ACL and intraligamentous ganglion, as well as other lesions in the knee joint. McIntyre et al.
In conclusion, mucoid degeneration of the anterior cruciate ligament has a very characteristic appearance at MRI and seen in patients without an evidence of knee instability. Radiologists should be aware of this condition that it is often misdiagnosed as a partial or complete tear of the ACL. Introduction. Mucoid degeneration of the ACL is a rare process that has been described in a few reports (1) . With increasing use of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to evaluate the knee, a number of cases have been accumulated to date (2) . The pathogenesis of mucoid degeneration of the ACL remains unknown.
Introduction. Mucoid degeneration of the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) is a little-known pathology. This infiltrating lesion is included in the mucoid pathology of the intercondylar fossa. It contrasts with cystic lesions better known as synovial cysts or intercondylar fossa cysts. The objective of our study was to analyze the semiological context of ACL mucoid degeneration and the outcome of treatment by partial or total arthroscopic ACL resection. Our hypothesis is that partial or total ACL resection improves pain symptoms and flexion limitation, but at the expense of residual anterior laxity.
Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) mucoid degeneration, along with tears and anterior cruciate ligament ganglion cysts, is a relatively common cause of increased signal within the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL). The appearance can mimic acute or chronic interstitial partial tears of the ACL. However, in the case of mucoid degeneration secondary signs of ACL injury are usually absent. Secondary signs include bone bruising, meniscal tears, anterior subluxation of the tibia and other ligamentous injuries.
Mucoid degeneration of the ACL is a rare cause of knee pain. - This lesion of the ACL was first reported by Kumar et al. in 1999. They reported that a biopsy indicated mucoid degeneration and a relief of symptoms could be obtained through arthroscopic partial resection of the ligament. It was thought that this patient had knee pain due to mucoid degeneration of the PCL as well as the ACL. MRI is the most useful examination for differentiating between mucoid degeneration of the ACL and intraligamentous ganglion, as well as other lesions in the knee joint. McIntyre et al.