KLM Royal Dutch Airlines has 35 nonstop flights between Amsterdam, NL and Birmingham. 6,776 seats are available per week to fly direct from Amsterdam, NL to Birmingham. 2 airlines operate between Amsterdam, NL and Birmingham. 2 airlines operate between Amsterdam, NL and Birmingham. 34% of all flights from Amsterdam, NL to Birmingham leave during morning hours. The largest aircraft flying nonstop from Amsterdam, NL to Birmingham is the Boeing 737-900 (Winglets) with 178 seats. 
Cheap flights from Amsterdam to Birmingham 20 days in advance. If you have time to plan your trip from Amsterdam to Birmingham it's worth checking your dates on both low cost and traditional airlines now. Looking for last minute flights from Amsterdam to Birmingham? With eDreams you can book your flight up to 3 hours before departure with all airlines-from low cost to traditional. Below are the next flights from Amsterdam to Birmingham on various airlines. To find the best last minute flight deals from Amsterdam to Birmingham simply choose your airport for departure and arrival, and enter the dates and number of passengers in the search engine above
Cheap flights from Birmingham to Amsterdam. Know your dates, get live prices in seconds: Return One way. Return. One way. To. Direct only Direct flights only. From. We did not recognise that location. Please try again. Popular routes from Birmingham. 1  Flights from Birmingham to Eindhoven. 2  Flights Birmingham to Rotterdam. 3  Cheap flights from Birmingham to Maastricht. 4  Cheap Birmingham to Groningen flights. 5  Birmingham to Utrecht.
Book your BHX to AMS flights with Expedia and find last-minute Birmingham to Amsterdam airfare. When you book your next trip from Birmingham to Schiphol with Expedia, you can rest assured you’re getting great ticket prices and excellent service from one of the world’s most trusted travel providers.
Birmingham to Amsterdam Cheapest Fares. The lowest fare found from Birmingham (BHX) to Amsterdam (AMS) was £108 with KLM. The fares shown here are the lowest flight prices to Amsterdam obtained in actual searches by Just The Flight customers. To search and book flights to Amsterdam, please enter your travel requirements in the search form above, and click the search button.
If you were travelling in a mid range car that averaged 40 MPG and were paying £6.36 per gallon (1.40 per litre) for your petrol then the cost for this trip based on an estimated driving distance of 351.36 miles (565.34 kms) , from Birmingham to Amsterdam for your fuel would be in the region of £55.87. This page was designed to give you a good indication of the distance from Birmingham to Amsterdam. Distances from Birmingham to Amsterdam are a rough measure only showing the shortest distance as the crow flies, using longitudinal and latitudinal points.
Click here and use the Birmingham radius tool. The approx distance between Birmingham and Amsterdam in a straight line is 288 miles or 463.39 KMS See the maps and links below for additional information related to driving distances, fuel costs and estimated journey times for this trip from Birmingham to Amsterdam. This page was designed to give you a good indication of the distance from Birmingham to Amsterdam. Distances from Birmingham to Amsterdam are a rough measure only showing the shortest distance as the crow flies, using longitudinal and latitudinal points.