Travel in comfort and style from Salt Lake City, UT to Twin Falls, ID with the largest intercity bus service. New buses, premium amenities and convenient boarding make Greyhound the best bus service in UT. Save money and book your Greyhound bus tickets online today! Earn Destination Points each time you travel. Sign up now and receive 10% off your next Greyhound bus ticket purchase and earn points as you ride.
Driving distance from Twin Falls, ID to Salt Lake City, UT. The total driving distance from Twin Falls, ID to Salt Lake City, UT is 223 miles or 359 kilometers. Your trip begins in Twin Falls, Idaho. It ends in Salt Lake City, Utah. 
How many miles from St Louis to Salt Lake City?   The distance between the start location and the destination is 1,374mi, (2,212km), and will take approximately 19 hours 13 minutes of driving time. There are 7 blocks to a mile. Each block is labeled in  increments of 100, i.e. 100 East, 800 South, etc. Originally each  community had its own grid, but now the same grid … covers the entire  Salt Lake Valley.
Travel time is an important point to know with the driving distance. Hence you might also want to know the Travel Time from Salt Lake City to Twin Falls, ID. This will help you estimate how much time you will spend travelling for the distance from Salt Lake City to Twin Falls. You want to check the Map from Salt Lake City to Twin Falls, ID!Apart from the trip distance, do you need road driving directions? Refer the Directions from Salt Lake City to Twin Falls, ID!How much would be the distance if one could just fly from Salt Lake City to Twin Falls like a bird in a staight line?
I-15 passes through Idaho for 196 miles (315 km). Interstate 15 crosses the Utah state line in Oneida County. The highway runs through Pocatello, Blackfoot, and Idaho Falls, intersecting with Interstate 86. The last county in Idaho that Interstate 15 passes through is Clark County. I-15 continues through Utah for 401 miles (645 km). It is the main north–south connection for the state. The highway approximately follows the old alignment of U.S. Highway 91 from St. George to Brigham City.
Travel in comfort and style from Twin Falls, ID to Salt Lake City, UT with the largest intercity bus service. New buses, premium amenities and convenient boarding make Greyhound the best bus service in ID. Save money and book your Greyhound bus tickets online today! Earn Destination Points each time you travel. Sign up now and receive 10% off your next Greyhound bus ticket purchase and earn points as you rid
Sam's Taxi Cab offers Pick and Drop services in many South East Idaho towns and cities, including: American Falls, Idaho Falls, Blackfoot and Pocatello with service also in Twin Falls and Salt Lake City and everywhere in between. Check out our rate card now! 1  Flat rates for all surrouding airports, including Pocatello, Slat Lake, Twin Falls, Idaho Falls. 2  Flat rates for nearby areas including Blackfoot and Fort Hall Casino. 3  Need your food or any small package picked up in Pocatello, we can do that only for 5$.
I-15 begins near the Mexican border in San Diego County and stretches north to Alberta, Canada, passing through the states of California, Nevada, Arizona, Utah, Idaho, and Montana. The interstate serves the cities of San Diego, Las Vegas, St. George, Salt Lake City, Pocatello and Butte. It also passes close to the urban areas of Orange County, California, Los Angeles County, California, Ogden, Utah, and Helena, Montana. I-15 continues through Utah for 401 miles (645 km). It is the main north–south connection for the state. The highway approximately follows the old alignment of U.S. Highway 91 from St. George to Brigham City.