DONT EAT TUNA WHILE YOU'RE PREGNANT. Tuna are the big fish of the sea and because of this they end up having much more mercury in their meat. You don't want to hurt your unborn child for something as silly as enjoying a sandwich. 
Yes | No Thank you! Pregnant women can safely eat two meals per week of 6 ounces of cooked, ''low mercury'' fish: cod, salmon, shrimp, flounder, canned chunk-light tuna, haddock, trout, pollock, squid, shellfish (except lobster) and catfish. Fish sticks and ''fast-food'' sandwiches are commonly made from fish that are low in mercury. 
* Eat up to 12 ounces a week of canned light tuna and other low-mercury fish, such as salmon, shrimp, catfish, pollock, and fish sticks. * Eat up to 6 ounces of fresh or canned albacore (white) tuna. They have more mercury than light tuna. * Eat up to 6 ounces of locally caught fish. * Avoid large fish, such as shark, swordfish, king mackerel, and tilefish, which have the most mercury. Originally published in American Baby magazine, June 2004. 
Dietician and nutritionist. It is safe to eat two or three serves of canned or fresh tuna or salmon a week. While pregnant women are advised to avoid eating a lot of fish that is high in mercury, tuna is generally considered to be low in mercury. If you usually enjoy eating a lot of fish, try to balance out the types of fish you have. Combine fresh tuna, sardines, pilchards and trout, with fish that have lower levels of pollutants, such as haddock, red snapper, ling or flathead. Read our full article on eating fish during pregnancy.
June 5, 2006 -- Recommendations published in the magazine Consumer Reports this week urge women to avoid eating any canned tuna while pregnant because of uncertainties about the risk of mercury contamination to developing fetuses. “We’re not telling you not to eat tuna. But for pregnant women in particular where you are talking about potential fetal exposure -- and it’s an avoidable risk -- we’re saying go ahead and take some extra measures to reduce your Hg [mercury] exposure at all costs,” she tells WebMD.
Back in 2005 the U.S. Food & Drug Admin. said you can eat up to 6 oz/wk. of albacore (white) tuna and 12 oz. of canned LIGHT tuna as regular albacore contains more mercury than canned LIGHT. But here is another article w/research done by COnsumer Reports that may change that a bit. The ''medium mercury'' fish-striped bass, canned albacore (solid white) tuna, tuna steaks, halibut, lobster, bluefish, grouper and most freshwater fish caught locally-contain three times as much mercury as low mercury fish. One 6-ounce serving can be safely eaten once per week.
Yes | No Thank you! Pregnant women can safely eat two meals per week of 6 ounces of cooked, ''low mercury'' fish: cod, salmon, shrimp, flounder, canned chunk-light tuna, haddock, trout, pollock, squid, shellfish (except lobster) and catfish. Fish sticks and ''fast-food'' sandwiches are commonly made from fish that are low in mercury. The ''medium mercury'' fish-striped bass, canned albacore (solid white) tuna, tuna steaks, halibut, lobster, bluefish, grouper and most freshwater fish caught locally-contain three times as much mercury as low mercury fish. One 6-ounce serving can be safely eaten once per week.