1 Sodium, chloride, water, glucose and amino acids are reabsorbed (removed from the tubules). 2  Organic acids and bases like bile salts, oxalate and urate are secreted into the proximal tubule. 3  Loop of Henle. 4  Water is reabsorbed mainly in the descending limb and thin segment of the ascending limb. 1 Bowman’s capsule. 2  Collects the incoming fluid from the glomerular capillaries. 3  Proximal tubule. 4  Sodium, chloride, water, glucose and amino acids are reabsorbed (removed from the tubules). 5  Organic acids and bases like bile salts, oxalate and urate are secreted into the proximal tubule.
Tubular Reabsorption of Sodium, Chloride and Fluids. 99% of the glomerular filtrate volume (primary urine, 120 ml/min), 99% of the filtrated sodium and 99% of the filtered Chloride are reabsorbed in the renal tubules of the nephron. Potassium reabsorption of the kidney. 60–70% of the filtered potassium (K +) is reabsorbed in the proximal tubule. There are no specific K-transporter, reabsorption is managed with the absorption of water (solvent drag).
25–35% of the filtered potassium is reabsorbed in the loop of Henle with the Na-K-2Cl-cotransport mechanism. 5–15% of the filtered potassium reaches the distal nephron. Depending on the metabolism there are now possibilities of potassium reabsorption or excretion (controlled by aldosterone). Potassium reabsorption of the kidney. 60–70% of the filtered potassium (K +) is reabsorbed in the proximal tubule. There are no specific K-transporter, reabsorption is managed with the absorption of water (solvent drag).
Urea. 50% of filtered urea is reabsorbed in the proximal tubule. However the concentration of urea actually increases thanks to the reabsorption of 70% of the filtered water in the same portion of the nephron. Epithelial Transport. Sodium is the most important ion in relation to reabsorption from the proximal tubule. Water and chloride follow sodium passively and many other ions, compounds and molecules are absorbed through co-transporters with sodium.
1 Proximal tubule. 2  Sodium, chloride, water, glucose and amino acids are reabsorbed (removed from the tubules). 3  Organic acids and bases like bile salts, oxalate and urate are secreted into the proximal tubule. 1 Bowman’s capsule. 2  Collects the incoming fluid from the glomerular capillaries. 3  Proximal tubule. 4  Sodium, chloride, water, glucose and amino acids are reabsorbed (removed from the tubules). 5  Organic acids and bases like bile salts, oxalate and urate are secreted into the proximal tubule.
1 Sodium, calcium, chloride, magnesium and potassium are actively reabsorbed in the thick segment of the ascending limb. 2  Distal tubule. 3  Controls the blood flow through the glomerular capillaries and glomerular filtration of the nephron to which it belongs. 4  Sodium, potassium and chloride reabsorption. 1 Bowman’s capsule. 2  Collects the incoming fluid from the glomerular capillaries. 3  Proximal tubule. 4  Sodium, chloride, water, glucose and amino acids are reabsorbed (removed from the tubules). 5  Organic acids and bases like bile salts, oxalate and urate are secreted into the proximal tubule.
Urea is freely filtered, 50% are reabsorbed in the proximal tubule with the reabsorption of water (solvent drag). Urea is secreted in the thin ascending limb of Henle loop, so significant amounts of urea reach the distal nephron. Potassium reabsorption of the kidney. 60–70% of the filtered potassium (K +) is reabsorbed in the proximal tubule. There are no specific K-transporter, reabsorption is managed with the 
1 Collects the incoming fluid from the glomerular capillaries. 2  Proximal tubule. 3  Sodium, chloride, water, glucose and amino acids are reabsorbed (removed from the tubules). 4  Organic acids and bases like bile salts, oxalate and urate are secreted into the proximal tubule. 1 Bowman’s capsule. 2  Collects the incoming fluid from the glomerular capillaries. 3  Proximal tubule. 4  Sodium, chloride, water, glucose and amino acids are reabsorbed (removed from the tubules). 5  Organic acids and bases like bile salts, oxalate and urate are secreted into the proximal tubule.