The interior sets were partly based, not on the Timberline, but on the Ahwahnee Hotel, in Yosemite Park, California. To complicate matters further, it’s sometimes claimed that the film was made at the Stanley Hotel, 333 East Wonderview Avenue, Estes Park in Colorado. This is the hotel in which King stayed in 1973, and which inspired the original story.
Apparently the ABC miniseries, THE SHINING was filmed at the Stanley Hotel. However the movie, THE SHINING was filmed at Mt Hood Lodge in Oregon. Not filming the movie at The Stanley had, according to one site, annoyed Stephen King and this had been the part of the motivation for ABC's refilming of the story! Stephen King-the Overlook-the Stanley Hotel and Ghosts. back to historyinfo. Most folks have either seen the movie, THE SHINING or read Stephen King's book of the same title (one of King's best and scariest books!). The story takes place in a very haunted hotel named The OverLook.
Though the Stanley is often referred to as The Hotel from the Shining, this is a misnomer; Kubrick actually used exteriors from a different hotel for the film starring Jack Nicholson and Shelley Duval. The one thing people notice is we have a much lighter coloring than you'd expect, Oglesby said. 
The movie The Shining was based on the Stephen King novel of the same name, which was inspired by The Stanley Hotel in Colorado. Kubrick was asked not to depict room #217 (featured in the book) in The Shining, because future guests at the Lodge might be afraid to stay there. So a nonexistent room, #237, was substituted in the film.
The Shining is a 1980 British-American psychological horror film produced and directed by Stanley Kubrick, co-written with novelist Diane Johnson, and starring Jack Nicholson, Shelley Duvall, Danny Lloyd, and Scatman Crothers. In the film, Jack Torrance, a writer and recovering alcoholic, takes a job as an off-season caretaker at the isolated Overlook Hotel. His young son possesses psychic abilities and is able to see things from the past and future, such as the ghosts who inhabit the hotel.
The Timberline Lodge located on Mt. Hood in Oregon is the name of the hotel that was used for the front exterior shots in the film. Confidence votes 3. The Timberline Lodge located on Mt. Hood in Oregon is the name of the hotel that was used for the front exterior shots in the film. However, all the interior shots were made in specially built sets at Elstree Studios in London.
Answer by Kgneis. Confidence votes 31. The Timberline Lodge on Mt. Hood in Oregon was used for the front exterior, but all the interiors as well as the back of the hotel were specially built at Elstree Studios in London, England. 
All interior scenes were shot at Elstree Studios as well, and do not depict the interior of the Timberline Lodge. Kubrick was asked not to depict room #217 (featured in the book) in The Shining, because future guests at the Lodge might be afraid to stay there. So a nonexistent room, #237, was substituted in the film. Curiously and somewhat ironically, room #217 is requested more often than any other room at Timberlin
blog: http://kubrick-shining.blogspot.com/. The Shining is a 1980 horror film directed by Stanley Kubrick, based on Stephen King's novel of the same name. The film stars Jack Nicholson as tormented writer Jack Torrance, Shelley Duvall as his wife, Wendy, and Danny Lloyd as their son, Danny