You also might have this test to diagnose measles, mumps, or rubella. Symptoms of measles include congestion, cough, fever, and a rash all over your body. Some people don't have the classic symptoms but have measles antibodies in their blood. Symptoms of mumps include swollen parotid or salivary glands, fever, and headache. Symptoms of rubella include fever and a rash.
An MMR Titer is a blood test to check immunity for Measles, Mumps, and Rubella. Infection with any of the 3 diseases may have serious implications to a person’s health. 1 Titers are blood tests that check your immune status to vaccinations or diseases you may have received in the past. 2  If you’re titers results are positive, it means that you have adequate immunity to a particular infectious disease. 3  Therefore, you do not need to get that particular vaccine.
Measles (rubeola) and mumps are viruses that are members of the Paramyxoviridae family. They both cause infections that usually resolve within several days but can sometimes cause serious complications in certain cases. Both are preventable through vaccination. Measles and mumps testing may involve the detection of antibodies in the blood that develop in response to infection. Additionally, the virus or its genetic material (RNA) may be directly detected in a sample using culture or a molecular method such as polymerase chain reaction (PCR) . 
Antibody titer is a laboratory test that measures the level of antibodies in a blood sample. The antibody level in the blood tells your doctor whether or not you have been exposed to an antigen or something that the body thinks is foreign. The body uses antibodies to attack and remove foreign substances. 
The indirect Coombs test finds certain antibodies that are in the liquid part of your blood (serum). These antibodies can attack red blood cells but are not attached to your red blood cells. The indirect Coombs test is commonly done to find antibodies in a recipient's or donor's blood before a transfusion. A test to determine whether a woman has Rh-positive or Rh-negative blood (Rh antibody titer) is done early in pregnancy. If she is Rh-negative, steps can be taken to protect the baby.
Some blood products do not contain antibodies that interfere with vaccine replication. Palivizumab (Synagis), used for the prevention of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infection in infants and young children, contains antibody directed only at RSV. Washed red blood cells contain a negligible amount of antibody. If a live injectable vaccine (measles-mumps-rubella [MMR], varicella, or combination measles-mumps-rubella-varicella [MMRV]) must be given around the time that antibody is given, the two must be separated by enough time so that the antibody does not interfere with viral
A Titer is a blood test that checks your immune status to vaccinations or diseases you may have received in the past. There are two types of immunity a person can have: 1. 1 Titers are blood tests that check your immune status to vaccinations or diseases you may have received in the past. 2  If you’re titers results are positive, it means that you have adequate immunity to a particular infectious disease. 3  Therefore, you do not need to get that particular vaccine.
MMR Titer. An MMR Titer is a blood test to check immunity for Measles, Mumps, and Rubella. Infection with any of the 3 diseases may have serious implications to a person’s health. The vaccine for MMR has been given routinely in the United States since 1971. 1 Titers are blood tests that check your immune status to vaccinations or diseases you may have received in the past. 2  If you’re titers results are positive, it means that you have adequate immunity to a particular infectious disease. 3  Therefore, you do not need to get that particular vaccine.
Your body makes two rubella antibodies: IgM and IgG. If IgM is found in your blood, you may have had a recent infection. If IgG is present, it could mean that you had a rubella infection in the past or that you had a vaccine. These antibodies mean that you have protection you need. Some people don't have the classic symptoms but have measles antibodies in their blood. Symptoms of mumps include swollen parotid or salivary glands, fever, and headache. Symptoms of rubella include fever and a rash.
A titer is a measurement of the amount or concentration of a substance in a solution. It usually refers to the amount of medicine or antibodies found in a patient’s blood. Medication titers can tell if a person is receiving too much medication. 1  If born on or after January 1, 1957, provide proof of two immunizations for measles at least one month apart or immunity via a blood titer report. ( 2 Persons born before this date are considered immune to measles).