Fish has always had one temperature for being done. The internal temperature for a done fish should be 145 degrees. At this temperature the fish should be opaque throughout and flake easily when tested with a fork. Like you, I prefer my Salmon to be medium, so the internal temperature will not be 145. As far as the internal temperature for other fish. 
Although not all salmon is contaminated with harmful organisms, the risk still exists. Fortunately, cooking the fillets to an internal temperature of 145 degrees Fahrenheit should eliminate that risk by killing the harmful organisms. But if you undercook your salmon, these organisms might remain intact.
The United States Food and Drug Administration recommends cooking salmon to an internal temperature of 145 degrees Fahrenheit. Push the tip of the meat thermometer gently into the middle of the salmon fillet at its thickest part. Fortunately, cooking the fillets to an internal temperature of 145 degrees Fahrenheit should eliminate that risk by killing the harmful organisms. But if you undercook your salmon, these organisms might remain intact.
1 The fish is ready once it reaches an internal temperature of 140 degrees. 2  Without a thermometer you can test for doneness by seeing if the flesh flakes easily from the fish. 3  A salmon fillet will take approximately 10 minutes to poach. Fish is perfectly cooked when it reaches an internal temperature of 140 degrees. If you don’t already own one, I highly recommend picking up an instant-read thermometer next time you’re at a kitchen store. If you’re cooking fish in the oven or on the stovetop, you can use it to make sure you’re not overcooking it.
Ideally, start checking the internal temperature a few minutes before the salmon fillet should be done cooking -- this prevents you from overcooking the fish. Once your salmon is cooked, clean the meat thermometer with hot water and soap to prevent cross-contamination. Fortunately, cooking the fillets to an internal temperature of 145 degrees Fahrenheit should eliminate that risk by killing the harmful organisms. But if you undercook your salmon, these organisms might remain intact.
Note that we cook the salmon to medium-rare in this recipe. If you prefer rare salmon (with a large translucent area in the middle of each fillet), shorten the cooking time by 2 minutes, or remove the salmon when the internal temperature reaches 110 degrees. Total Cooking Time: 45. 
To Serve the Salmon Hot. Remove the pan from the heat when the center of the fillet reaches 120F. Let the salmon sit in the liquid off the heat until the internal temperature reaches 125F, then use the largest spatulas you have to gently lift the salmon from the liquid. Drain well and place on serving platter. Sprinkle with Maldon sea salt and dill and drizzle with olive oil.
To Serve the Salmon Cold (Room Temperature). Remove the pan from the heat when the center of the fillet reaches 110F, about 10 minutes. Let the salmon sit in the liquid off the heat. Allow the fish to cool in the liquid, then refrigerate in the liquid for up to one day. Let the salmon sit in the liquid off the heat until the internal temperature reaches 125F, then use the largest spatulas you have to gently lift the salmon from the liquid. Drain well and place on serving platter. Sprinkle with Maldon sea salt and dill and drizzle with olive oil.
As long as you’re checking the internal temperature, salmon can be prepared in a variety of methods. Poaching the delicate fish involves cooking it in simmering liquid, while broiling and roasting require a lengthy stay in low oven temperatures. Salmon can also be baked and grilled. Fortunately, cooking the fillets to an internal temperature of 145 degrees Fahrenheit should eliminate that risk by killing the harmful organisms. But if you undercook your salmon, these organisms might remain intact.
Reduce heat to a simmer and place salmon fillets in pan. Cover and simmer over low heat, 10 minutes per inch of thickness, measured at thickest part; or until fish flakes when tested with a fork. Remove salmon from pan; keep salmon warm. Boil remaining liquid in the skillet until it is reduced to approximately 1/4 cup. Whisk in butter and stir in capers. 