Report Abuse. Actually there are two types of cricket matches .... one is the ' one dayer' the next one is the ' test match' .... one dayers last for a day as the name suggests... it lasts for 5 to 6 hours..... test matches last for 5 days..... test matches are played only in daylight ... It depends on the type of game, and the rules it is played under. Twenty-twenty games last about two hours. One day games usually last about eight hours if they run their full length. Test matches last a maximum of five days, with seven hours play scheduled on each day.
International cricket test matches take up to a maximum of 5 days, but test matches between counties and in small competitions are sometimes played for a maximum of 4 da … ys. 4 people found this useful. Answered. In Football-American. 
8.2k Views. On international level, cricket is played in three versions. A test match has a duration of maximum of 5 days (8 hours each day including breaks). It can end early (ends as a draw if no result is obtained for 5 days). On an average, the result is usually obtained on the 4th or 5th day only. A one day match has a duration of around 8 hours including the breaks. The shortest version is 20-20 (or T20) which has a duration of about 3 hours. Test Match: Duration of 5 days (8 hrs per day in that half an hour lunch break and 15 min tea break). One Day Match (50-50 Over) : Duration of 8 Hours. With a break of 45 Min between two innings. One Day Match (20-20 Over) : Generally little more than 3 Hours.
Typically, first-class cricket matches are played over three to five days with, at least, six hours of cricket being played each day. One-day cricket matches last for six hours or more. Cricket therefore has special rules about intervals for lunch, tea and drinks as well as rules about when play starts and ends. These rules are outlined in Laws 15 (Intervals) and 16 (Start of play; cessation of play) in the laws of cricket. 1 The term last hour can be a misnomer. 2  One hour before the scheduled end of the game, the last hour starts. 3  An agreed minimum number of overs (usually 15 in Test match cricket and 20 in other first-class cricket games) is bowled.
In professional cricket, the length of a game ranges from 20 overs per side to Test cricket played over five days. The Laws of Cricket are maintained by the International Cricket Council (ICC) and the Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC) with additional Standard Playing Conditions for Test matches and One Day Internationals. 
Best Answer: Typically, two innings matches are played over three to five days with at least six hours of cricket being played each day. One innings matches are usually played over one day for six hours or more. There are formal intervals on each day for lunch and tea, and shorter breaks for drinks, where necessary. It depends on the type of game, and the rules it is played under. Twenty-twenty games last about two hours. One day games usually last about eight hours if they run their full length. Test matches last a maximum of five days, with seven hours play scheduled on each day.
While Test cricket is played for 5 days, One Day International matches are played for 50 overs each side on one day and Twenty/Twenty matches are played for 20 overs each side. It depends on the type of game, and the rules it is played under. Twenty-twenty games last about two hours. One day games usually last about eight hours if they run their full length. Test matches last a maximum of five days, with seven hours play scheduled on each day.
International cricket test matches take up to a maximum of 5 days, but test matches between counties and in small competitions are sometimes played for a maximum of 4 da … ys. 4 people found this useful. A One Day International match, having more overs, will play out over a longer period of the day (some ODI matches have run for over 8 hours, and rain can delay play into a second day). First-class cricket typically sets a maximum length of time the game can be played.
Best Answer: There are 2 types of game 1.One day game known as ODI lasts for approximately 6hrs + 45mins break. 2.Test match is for 5days where 2 teams can bat 2 times (Innings) 3.Now ICC (International Cricket Council) is trying to promote 20/20 games which last less then 1day game. Difference between these two is One Day game has 50 Overs X 6 pitches where 20/20 has 20 Overs X 6 pitches. Report Abuse. a typical one day match lasts for 3.5 hours per innings....ie, 7 hours. but a test match lasts 6 hours per day for 5 days. there are also 4 day and 3 day matches.