On average if the tempuratures are at least 34 degrees 1.25 inches of snow melts. When the tempurature reached 44, 1.5 inches of snow melted. When the temps reached 54 degrees only 1. 5 inches of snow melted. So when the snow melted completely, I added up each day where snow melted, by adding the amount of snow melted, and dividing it by the number of entries. On average snow melts about 1.25 inches every day. Brian · 7 months ago.
This method also takes about 2 hours. Like others have mentioned, it really depends on how much ice is built up ~ I usually don't defrost until I have about an inch of ice in the freezer, and 3 inches of ice on the coils in the frig. Yes~ the frig really needs to be donated to the museum, but it's a family antique :). Source(s):
Take a pan and fill it with water, get it nice and hot on the stove or use a bowl in the microwave. Place the hot water inside the freezer and close the door. After about 5 minutes remove the pan or bowl and reheat then put it back in the freezer. Continue until ice is melted. 
What food that is left is packed in coolers and set aside for the day. Next, I turn off the power to the freezer and frig compartments and leave the doors open. Depending on how much ice you have built up, it can take anywhere from 4 to 24 hours to melt. You can use a blow dryer (I've done that in the past which speeds things up to about 2 hours) OR you can try the boiling water method. Like others have mentioned, it really depends on how much ice is built up ~ I usually don't defrost until I have about an inch of ice in the freezer, and 3 inches of ice on the coils in the frig. Yes~ the frig really needs to be donated to the museum, but it's a family antique :). Source(s):
An ice cube melts in the 109 degree temperatures. It takes about 12 to 13 minutes to melt an oversized ice cube on concrete in 109 degrees. But it only takes about 6 minutes to fry an iPhone. We were going to give you the exact time it took to melt an ice cube (with video proof), but after a quarter of an hour in the sweltering heat, all we came back with was a bag full of water, a malfunctioning iPhone and a sunburn. Not long after we learned the temperature had finally peaked at 109 degrees, breaking the all-time high record for Amarillo, someone got the bright idea to see how long it would take to melt an ice cube on the sidewalk. The brilliant thought that didn’t cross our minds? Hey, 109 degrees is really hot.
Water, like all types of matter, freezes at a specific temperature. The freezing point for water is 0 degrees Celsius (32 degrees Fahrenheit). When the temperature of water falls to 0 degrees Celsius and below, it begins to change to ice. As it freezes, it releases heat to its surroundings. However, in some ways water is not like other types of matter. The ground freezes when the water in the ground becomes ice, as it did during the Ice Bowl. The ground thaws when the pore ice melts. Note that when talking about frozen ground thawing, scientists do not use the word melt.. That term refers to a solid becoming a liquid.
As with a brand new freezer, it will take several hours for the temperature to stabilize at 0 degrees Fahrenheit. Replacing frozen foods after the first 20 or 30 minutes will help lower the temperature more, similar to adding ice to a cooler. Defrosting a freezer in the middle of a sweltering summer day, for instance, will likely produce a much warmer freezer interior than doing it on a cool winter day when the air temperature is much lower. Once you plug in the freezer afterwards, it immediately begins to run and cool.
Best Answer: Snow melting depends on much more than temperature. I have seen snow melt at rates of inches per day when it is 20 degrees F out. This was in Colorado. Because the sun is more intense there, and the snow was on a hillside facing the sun, it melting when the temperature was below freezing. When the temps reached 54 degrees only 1. 5 inches of snow melted. So when the snow melted completely, I added up each day where snow melted, by adding the amount of snow melted, and dividing it by the number of entries. On average snow melts about 1.25 inches every day. Brian · 7 months ago.