A pretzel (German: Brezel or Breze) is a type of baked bread product made from dough most commonly shaped into a twisty knot. Pretzels originated in Europe, most likely among monasteries in the Early Middle Ages. The traditional pretzel shape is a distinctive symmetrical looped form, with the ends of a long strip of dough intertwined and then twisted back into itself in a certain way (a pretzel loop). Pretzels now come in different shapes. The pretzel shape is used for a variety of sweet pastries made of different types of dough (flaky, brittle, soft, crispy) with a variety of toppings (icing, nuts, seeds, cinnamon). Around Christmas they can be made of soft gingerbread ( Lebkuchen ) with chocolate coating.
1 Sprinkle yeast on lukewarm water in mixing bowl; stir to dissolve. 2  Add sugar, salt and stir to dissolve; add flour and knead dough until smooth and elastic. 3  Let rise at least 1/2 hour. 4  While dough is rising, prepare a baking soda water bath with 2 cups warm water and 2 tbsp baking soda. 5  Be certain to stir often. 1 While dough is rising, prepare a baking soda water bath with 2 cups warm water and 2 tbsp baking soda. 2  Be certain to stir often. 3  After dough has risen, pinch off bits of dough and roll into a long rope (about 1/2 inch or less thick) and shape. 4  Dip pretzel in soda solution and place on greased baking sheet.
The taste of the pretzel is a result of ingredients such as salt, sugar, and flavorings. Salt is used in the batter at about 1%. It helps to make the dough stronger in addition to improving the taste. Sugars such as sucrose or corn syrup are used for about 2% of the pretzel dough. Flour. In pretzel dough making, flour is perhaps the most important ingredient. It is primarily made up of starch and protein. When water is added, the flour protein soaks up the water rapidly and reacts with it to form a mass known as gluten. The gluten can be stretched and formed quite a distance with-out breaking
1 Add sugar, salt and stir to dissolve; add flour and knead dough until smooth and elastic. 2  Let rise at least 1/2 hour. 3  While dough is rising, prepare a baking soda water bath with 2 cups warm water and 2 tbsp baking soda. 4  Be certain to stir often. 1 While dough is rising, prepare a baking soda water bath with 2 cups warm water and 2 tbsp baking soda. 2  Be certain to stir often. 3  After dough has risen, pinch off bits of dough and roll into a long rope (about 1/2 inch or less thick) and shape. 4  Dip pretzel in soda solution and place on greased baking sheet.
Directions. 1  Sprinkle yeast on lukewarm water in mixing bowl; stir to dissolve. 2  Add sugar, salt and stir to dissolve; add flour and knead dough until smooth and elastic. 3  Let rise at least 1/2 hour. 4  While dough is rising, prepare a baking soda water bath with 2 cups warm water and 2 tbsp baking soda. 1 While dough is rising, prepare a baking soda water bath with 2 cups warm water and 2 tbsp baking soda. 2  Be certain to stir often. 3  After dough has risen, pinch off bits of dough and roll into a long rope (about 1/2 inch or less thick) and shape. 4  Dip pretzel in soda solution and place on greased baking sheet.
Instructions. 1  Make the pretzel dough: Combine the warm water and yeast in the bowl of a stand mixer (or a medium-sized bowl, if kneading by hand). 2  Let stand a few minutes, then stir to dissolve the yeast. 3  Add 2 1/2 cups of the flour, sugar, and salt. Stir with a stiff spatula to form a floury, shaggy dough. Knead the dough: Knead the dough with a stand mixer fitted with a dough hook attachment on low speed for 5 minutes. If the dough is very sticky after 1 minute, add flour a tablespoon at a time until it forms a ball. Let stand a few minutes, then stir to dissolve the yeast. Add 2 1/2 cups of the flour, sugar, and salt. Stir with a stiff spatula to form a floury, shaggy dough. Knead the dough: Knead the dough with a stand mixer fitted with a dough hook attachment on low speed for 5 minutes.