We occasionally hear from parents who wonder whether or not it is safe for their babies to drink tea – so we thought we’d post about this subject today and take a look at why tea is NOT generally recommended for infants. The simple fact is that tea hinders the body’s absorption of iron.
Tea has a way of interfering with iron absorption in babies. Babies need iron for their growth and hemoglobin in their red blood corpuscles. Then there is caffeine which is also not good for babies’ growth. Still many mothers do serve tea to their babies. Some are of opinion that mild tea or caffeine free tea can be given to babies. Some experts are against giving babies tea for the reason that it makes the baby feel full and may refuse food and malnutrition follows. Majority of experts are against tea for one reason or the other.
Herbal teas are not suitable for babies who are less than six months old. Your baby needs nothing but breastmilk or formula milk until then. If your baby is not yet six months old, and seems to be colicky, it's tempting to try herbal teas to soothe her. However, it's doubtful whether herbal teas can help with colic.
And neither tea nor coffee are suitable drinks for children. Tea and coffee and iron It's a good idea for young women not to drink tea or coffee at mealtimes or for half an hour afterwards. This is because the polyphenols in tea and coffee reduce the amount of iron that can be absorbed from food.
Whatever age your baby is, don't give her herbal teas that contain the spice star anise. Chinese star anise is a traditional treatment for colic. But Chinese star anise is sometimes contaminated with Japanese star anise, a slightly different spice, which can be poisonous. Star anise tea for babies is banned in the US.
Though many parents have concerns about serving tea – the most widely consumed drink in the world other than water – most medical experts say that the right teas can be safe for babies as young as 12 months old. In fact, some teas are considered safe starting at 6 months.