A tee time is the reserved start time for a round of golf. Tee times can be made for individuals or groups and are available anywhere from days to months in advance, depending on the course. Scheduling. Tee times can be reserved by calling the course directly or visiting its website. An employee in the pro shop can book your tee time and provide insight on ideal playing times, pace of play, course conditions and green fees. Course websites allow players to view and choose from all available times.
Definition of GREENS FEE. : a fee paid for the privilege of playing on a golf course —called also green fee. ADVERTISEMENT.
That's the green fee. An individual course's green fees typically vary depending on time of week, time of day and status of the golfer. Weekend rounds usually cost more than weekday rounds; rounds played late in the day-when there is a question about whether a full 18 can be finished-are often discounted. Juniors and seniors often receive discounts. And anyone with a club membership will pay less than a guest. Also, many courses offer 9-hole and 18-hole green fees, the 9-hole fees obviously being lower. Some courses are even starting offer 12-hole rates. There is no standard green fee for golf courses. It is up to each course to determine what price to charge, and those prices range from very low ($10 or $15 green fees can still be found in a few places) to very high (hundreds of dollars at the most-famous and most-luxurious resort courses)
30 Minutes - $8.00. 1 Hour - $13.00. Tee Time Cancellation Policy: Cancellations and/or modifications to your scheduled tee time must be made 24 hours in advance over the phone by calling the golf shop at (303) 371-3131. Failure to cancel your tee-time or reducing the number of players in your group in advance may result in a no-show fee charged for any unused portion of your tee time to your credit card. The no-show fee may be the applicable 18-Hole Green Fee Rate for the scheduled tee-time.
Play Half Price Golf at over 900 premier courses throughout the UK and Ireland. GreenFree 2 for 1 Golf Vouchers entitle two to play for the price of one at any participating golf course. It has always been our aim to offer a green fee voucher saving scheme targeted specifically at the discerning golfer.
If you call a golf course and ask the cost of its green fees, you will most likely be given the rate for 18 holes. You may also be given the player fee rate -- the green fee plus cart fee -- if the golf course requires a motorized golf car. Ask for the 9-hole rate if you only want to play a quick round. In literal terms, a green fee is the fee you must pay to be allowed to get on the green. Virtually all golf courses in North America use this term and each individual course sets the price of its fee.
Definition. A green fee is the set fee golfers must pay at the pro shop or clubhouse in order to gain access to the course. In literal terms, a green fee is the fee you must pay to be allowed to get on the green. Virtually all golf courses in North America use this term and each individual course sets the price of its fee. Some golfers use the term greens fee (plural), but the proper term is green fee.