The signs and symptoms of shingles usually affect only a small section of one side of your body. These signs and symptoms may include: 1  Pain, burning, numbness or tingling. 2  Sensitivity to touch. 3  A red rash that begins a few days after the pain. 4  Fluid-filled blisters that break open and crust over. 5  Itching. Most commonly, the shingles rash develops as a stripe of blisters that wraps around either the left or right side of your torso. Sometimes the shingles rash occurs around one eye or on one side of the neck or face.
What To Use For Shingles On Neck. Here's a taste of what TheBody.com has to offer on this topic: Get the Facts. ...itching, numbness, tingling or severe pain in a belt-like pattern on the chest, back, or around the nose and eyes. In rare cases, herpes can infect the facial or eye nerves. This can cause outbreaks around the mouth, on the face, neck, and scalp, in and around the ear, or at the tip of the nose. Shingles outbreaks are almost always on just one side of the body. Within a few days, a rash appears on the skin area related to the inflamed nerve...
Definition. Shingles is a viral infection that causes a painful rash. Although shingles can occur anywhere on your body, it most often appears as a single stripe of blisters that wraps around either the left or the right side of your torso. Shingles is caused by the varicella-zoster virus — the same virus that causes chickenpox. After you've had chickenpox, the virus lies inactive in nerve tissue near your spinal cord and brain. Years later, the virus may reactivate as shingles. While it isn't a life-threatening condition, shingles can be very painful
The shingles rash appears as painful skin blisters that appear on only one side of the face or body along the distribution of nerves on the skin. Typically, the rash occurs along your chest, back, abdomen, or face, but it may also affect other parts of the body like the limbs, neck, or lower back. 
If you have never had chickenpox, you can get a shot to help prevent infection with the chickenpox virus. Most children now get shots to prevent chickenpox. If you are 50 or older, you can get a different shot that helps prevent shingles. This shot is recommended for people 60 years of age and older. 
After an attack of chickenpox, the virus remains in the tissues in your nerves. As you get older, or if you have an illness or stress that weakens your immune system, the virus may reappear in the form of shingles. Early symptoms of shingles include headache, sensitivity to light, and flu-like symptoms without a fever.
Shingles-Symptoms. When the virus that causes chickenpox reactivates, it causes shingles. Early symptoms of shingles include headache, sensitivity to light, and flu-like symptoms without a fever. You may then feel itching, tingling, or pain where a band, strip, or small area of rash may appear several days or weeks later. 
When to see a doctor. Contact your doctor promptly if you suspect shingles, but especially in the following situations: 1  The pain and rash occur near an eye. 2  If left untreated, this infection can lead to permanent eye damage. Most commonly, the shingles rash develops as a stripe of blisters that wraps around either the left or right side of your torso. Sometimes the shingles rash occurs around one eye or on one side of the neck or face.
Shingles-What Happens. Shingles is caused by the same virus that causes chickenpox. After an attack of chickenpox, the virus remains in the tissues in your nerves. As you get older, or if you have an illness or stress that weakens your immune system, the virus may reappear in the form of shingles. You may first have a headache, flu-like symptoms (usually without a fever), and sensitivity to light, followed by itching, tingling, or pain in the area where a rash may develop.