1 Limestone cliffs or scars are produced at the edge of the area of limestone. 2  Often near vertical and highly jointed. 3  Swallow holes and sink holes are where rivers flow down into the rock. 4  Sink holes are relatively small, whilst swallow holes are larger. Uses of a carboniferous limestone area. 1  Poor, thin soils mean that the only type of farming possible in limestone areas is sheep grazing. 2  The tourist industry is a very important source of income to limestone areas. 3  Most people come to walk in the hills and see the spectacular karst sceney.
Rocks are susceptible to weathering. The type of weathering that is most effective is determined by the composition of the rock and the climate. Mechanical weathering – freeze thaw weathering and exfoliation. Chemical weathering – solution, carbonation. A case study of a quarry – and the attempts made to manage the extraction and use of the land during extraction and/or after the resource is exhausted. To include strategies used during extraction and restoration following extraction – use for farming, recreation and tourism.
Limestone pavement is a habitat with a high geological interest. Forms of limestone pavement can be found in many places in the world, especially in Alpine and Mediterranean areas, but these lack the distinctive surface patterning seen on British pavements. From the flat limestone surfaces, the characteristic features of limestone pavement have been formed by water in the glacially deposited soil exploiting cracks and fissures in the rock such as bedding planes and joints (lines of weakness in the rock generally running at 90o to bedding planes).
It is the action of water which is responsible for many of the distinctive features of upland limestone scenery. When you study upland limestone scenery remember you should describe and explain both surface and underground features. Surface features include limestone pavements, dry valleys, gorges and scars. Underground features include caverns, potholes, stalactites and stalagmites. The rock is permeable which means water can pass through the lines of weakness-the bedding planes and joints. Rainwater is a weak carbonic acid which reacts with the limestone as it passes through the rock. It dissolves the stone, enlarging joints and bedding planes. On the surface the chemical weathering widens and deepens cracks to form gryk
The water attacks the many joints and bedding planes in the rock, through the chemical weathering processes of carbonation and solution. There are a number of distinctive features seen in karst scenery areas, both on and beneath the surface. 1  Limestone pavements are large areas of exposed limestone. Uses of a carboniferous limestone area. 1  Poor, thin soils mean that the only type of farming possible in limestone areas is sheep grazing. 2  The tourist industry is a very important source of income to limestone areas. 3  Most people come to walk in the hills and see the spectacular karst sceney.
Formation of a limestone pavement [edit]. Conditions for limestone pavements are created when an advancing glacier scrapes away overburden and exposes horizontally-bedded limestone, with subsequent glacial retreat leaving behind a flat, bare surface.
Limestone Scenery 02. Limestone is a sedimentary rock composed largely of the minerals calcite and/or aragonite, which are different crystal forms of calcium carbonate (CaCO 3). Test your knowledge with this second Geography quiz on Limestone Scenery
Limestone pavements and swallow holes. The Pennines is the backbone of Northern England, running from Northumberland in the north to Derbyshire in the south. The rock is permeable which means water can pass through the lines of weakness-the bedding planes and joints. Rainwater is a weak carbonic acid which reacts with the limestone as it passes through the rock. It dissolves the stone, enlarging joints and bedding planes. On the surface the chemical weathering widens and deepens cracks to form grykes
During periods of glaciation, glacial abrasion has scraped away the topsoil to expose the bare rock underneath. Limestone is a sedimentary rock that is made up of horizontal cracks called bedding planes and vertical cracks called joints. Limestone is made of Calcium Carbonate which is dissolved by rainfall which is a weak acid. This process is called chemical weathering. As a result of these features water is able to seep down through the cracks and into the rock making it seem to disappear. Therefore limestone is said to be a permeable rock. A limestone pavement is formed when rain water seeps through the joints and dissolves the limestone on each side making the joint wider. As the processes of dissolving limestone and cavern formation continue over time then caverns get larger and larger. Eventually there will be less rock supporting the roof of the cavern and it will collapse. This forms a very steep-sided valley called a gorge.