Boardman's subject is not so much what Greek art meant to the Greeks and to foreigners but how it moved through the world. Any reader who thinks of the modern era as the transportation age will be amazed at the extent of ancient Greek art's diffusion by commerce, plunder and gift.
There is enough evidence to point out that ancient Greece had a profound influence on America and this influence is evident even today when one takes into consideration the cultural diversity, and the strides America has made in science, art, engineering, warfare and literature.
Ancient Greek Culture and Civilization. Ancient Greek Culture was the birthplace of Western civilisation about 4000 years ago. Ancient Greece produced many magnificent achievements in areas of government, science, philosophy and the arts that still influence our lives. 1  Democracy. 2  Sciences. 3  Philosophy. 4  Art. 5  Architecture.
Ancient Greece made a huge impact on America which is evident even today. The ancient Greeks helped to lay the foundations for art, literature, theater, math, science, architecture, engineering and warfare. In fact, practically every area of American lives is influenced by Ancient Greece.
Ancient Greek culture had major influences on today’s culture; some of these influences include mathematics, government, art and architecture; they even did research in the field of medicine. Many cultures and religions have adapted their ideas from the ancient Greeks.
Hence the interest of John Boardman's The Diffusion of Classical Art in Antiquity, which reprints and fully illustrates the 1993 A.W. Mellon Lectures in the Fine Arts, given at the National Gallery of Art. Boardman, an authority on the ancient world, is Lincoln Professor of Archeology and Art at Oxford.
His subject, Boardman says, is the reception of art without understanding, that is, the uses made of Greek classical art in other contemporaneous cultures, including those of the Near East and Persia, Egypt and North Africa, Central Asia and China.