Although shareholders may be the largest stakeholders because shareholders are affected directly by a company's performance, it has become more commonplace for additional groups to be considered stakeholders, too. Stakeholders could be: 1  employees who, without the company, would not have jobs. 2  bondholders who would like a solid performance from the company and, therefore, a reduced risk of default. 3  customers who may rely on the company to provide a particular good or service.
Businesses are human institutions populated by real live complex human beings. Stakeholders have names and faces and children.” Stockholder vs Stakeholder Two different Views about the purpose and aims of business Stockholder Theory Milton Friedman: The Purpose of Business is to make money for the owner or stockholders. 
OK, first it is important to differentiate between a stockholder and a stakeholder. The stockholder is provider of capital, the owner, and the profiteer of a corporation. Their role is that of financial investor, in that they lend their current capital with expectations of the return of greater capital in the future. The stakeholder is anyone who has a vested interest in the performance of the company
Examples of stakeholders are employees and staff. Shareholders can also be stakeholders because they have interest in the company in the financial aspect. To have a deeper understanding on the differences between a shareholder and a stakeholder, it is best to define them first. 2.Shareholders can be stakeholders, but stakeholders are not shareholders. 3.Shareholders are directly affected by whatever happens to the company while stakeholders are directly or indirectly affected by whatever happens to a company.
A possible answer to this question can be discussed in the stockholder vs. stakeholder debate. Although there are reasonable arguments for both – the stockholder and the stakeholder theory-I will use this paper to show that the stakeholder approach is superior and should be used for business in companies. Decisions in companies are often made by the management and influence not only the profit of a company, but also they influence the employees, many people outside of the company such as the supplier as well as the environment in the surrounding area of a company.
Employees, their families, customers, and suppliers are some of the examples of stakeholders. Shareholders are stakeholders too because they are directly affected by whatever happens to the company. Other organizations also only have stakeholders and no shareholders. 2.Shareholders can be stakeholders, but stakeholders are not shareholders. 3.Shareholders are directly affected by whatever happens to the company while stakeholders are directly or indirectly affected by whatever happens to a company.
A: Shareholders are stakeholders in a corporation, but stakeholders are not always shareholders. A shareholder owns part of a company through stock ownership, while a stakeholder is interested in the performance of a company for reasons other than just stock appreciation. Stakeholders could be: 1  employees who, without the company, would not have jobs. 2  bondholders who would like a solid performance from the company and, therefore, a reduced risk of default. 3  customers who may rely on the company to provide a particular good or service.
All shareholders in a company are stakeholders but all stakeholders are certainly not shareholders. Those having financial interest in the company are shareholders or stockholders as they are directly affected by good or poor performance of the company. Shareholders and Stakeholders. › All shareholders are stakeholders but all stakeholders are not shareholders. › Shareholders are those having financial interest in the company while stake holders can be anyone having direct or indirect interest in
by olivia. Shareholders vs Stakeholders. Shareholders and Stakeholders are people who have some interest in the company in which they have either financial or non financial stake. But to differentiate between shareholders and stakeholders, we have to understand the meanings of two words. Shareholders and Stakeholders. › All shareholders are stakeholders but all stakeholders are not shareholders. › Shareholders are those having financial interest in the company while stake holders can be anyone having direct or indirect interest in the company.