Citrobacter freundii is a species of facultative anaerobic. Gram-negative bacilli of the Enterobacteriaceae family. The bacteria are long rod-shaped with a typical length of 1–5 μm. Most C. freundii cells are surrounded by several flagella used for locomotion, but a few are not mobile. It can be found in soil, water, sewage, food, and the intestinal tracts of animals and humans.
According to the US Food and Drug Administration: “Citrobacter freundii is another opportunistic pathogen, but also is a resident of the human gastrointestinal tract. This pathogen can be isolated from various types of foods, including meats, spices, and freshwater fish. Citrobacter is a bug you’ve probably never heard of, but it’s found in the human intestine and almost everywhere else including water, wastewater, soil, etc.
CHARACTERISTICS: Citrobacter spp., of the Enterobacteriaceae family, are gram-negative, facultative anaerobic bacteria that appear as rods or coccobacilli at 0.3-1 µm in diameter and 0.6-6 µm long. Citrobacter spp. are motile using their peritrichous flagella. PHYSICAL INACTIVATION: 90% of the Citrobacter organisms may be killed after 15 minutes at 230 MPa. Citrobacter are also inactivated by UV, microwave, gamma radiation, moist heat (121°C for at least 20 min) and dry heat (165-170°C for 2 h) .
PATHOGENICITY/TOXICITY: Citrobacter are rare opportunistic nosocomial pathogens. Citrobacter normally cause urinary tract infections, blood stream infections, intra abdominal sepsis, brain abscesses, and pneumonia and other neonatal infection, such as meningitis, neonatal sepsis, joint infection or general bacteremia. PHYSICAL INACTIVATION: 90% of the Citrobacter organisms may be killed after 15 minutes at 230 MPa. Citrobacter are also inactivated by UV, microwave, gamma radiation, moist heat (121°C for at least 20 min) and dry heat (165-170°C for 2 h) .
Source: Diseases Database. Citrobacter freundii: A species of gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic, rod-shaped bacteria found in humans and other animals including MAMMALS; BIRDS; REPTILES; and AMPHIBIANS. Description of Citrobacter freundii. Citrobacter freundii: A species of gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic, rod-shaped bacteria found in humans and other animals including MAMMALS; BIRDS; REPTILES; and AMPHIBIANS.
As an opportunistic pathogen, C. freundii is responsible for a number of significant infections. It is known to be the cause of a number of nosocomial infections of the respiratory tract, urinary tract, blood, and many other normally sterile sites in patients. Gram-negative bacilli of the Enterobacteriaceae family. The bacteria are long rod-shaped with a typical length of 1–5 μm. Most C. freundii cells are surrounded by several flagella used for locomotion, but a few are not mobile. It can be found in soil, water, sewage, food, and the intestinal tracts of animals and humans.
Citrobacter is a genus of Gram-negative coliform bacteria in the Enterobacteriaceae family. The species C. amalonaticus, C. koseri, and C. freundii can use citrate as a sole carbon source. Citrobacter species are differentiated by their ability to convert tryptophan to indole, ferment lactose, and use malonate. Citrobacter shows the ability to accumulate uranium by building phosphate complexes.
As an opportunistic pathogen, Citrobacter freundii is often the cause of significant opportunistic infections, meaning that it does not generally cause disease in healthy human hosts. They only affect patients with a weak immune system, signifying that they need an opportunity to infect the person [2]. Ecology. Citrobacter freundii are commonly found in the environment, mainly in soil, water, and sewages. They are an indicator of potential contamination of water. They are also found on different organs of diseased animals, including mammals, birds, reptiles, and amphibians [1].
Photo: Pete Wardell/ CDC. The Citrobacter species, including Citrobacter freundii, are aerobic gram-negative bacilli. Citrobacter freundii are long rod-shaped bacteria typically 1-5 μm in length [1]. Most C. freundii cells are surrounded by many flagella used to move about, but a few are non-motile. Ecology. Citrobacter freundii are commonly found in the environment, mainly in soil, water, and sewages. They are an indicator of potential contamination of water. They are also found on different organs of diseased animals, including mammals, birds, reptiles, and amphibians [1].