Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: submarine (Noun). A boat that can go underwater. submarine (Noun). A kind of sandwich made in a long loaf of bread. submarine (Noun). Pitch delivered with an underhand motion. submarine (Verb). To operate or serve on a submarine. submarine (Verb). Used as an adjective in phrases such as submarine cable, submarine means under the sea. The noun submarine evolved as a shortened form of submarine boat. For reasons of naval tradition, submarines are usually referred to as boats rather than as ships, regardless of their size.
2. US: submarine sandwich. submarine /ˈsʌbməˌriːn/ adjective. submarine. /ˈsʌbməˌriːn/. adjective. Learner's definition of SUBMARINE. always used before a noun technical. : located below the surface of the water: underwater, undersea. a submarine canyon. 
noun. 1 A warship with a streamlined hull designed to operate completely submerged in the sea for long periods, equipped with a periscope and typically armed with torpedoes or missiles. Example sentences. 1  It is common now for Orthodox priests to baptize and sanctify warships, submarines, missiles, and tanks.
sub•ma•rine. 1. a vessel that can be submerged and navigated under water. 2. something situated or living under the surface of the sea, as a plant or animal. 3. Chiefly Northeastern and North Midland U.S. a hero sandwich. 4. situated, occurring, operating, or living under the surface of the sea. 5. of, pertaining to, or carried on by a submarine. In this spot there is a submarine valley worn by Humboldt's current, which skirts the coast of America as far as the Straits of Magellan.
verb. verb. 1  To attack by submarine, especially with torpedoes. 2  Sports To knock down with a blow to the legs. 3  Baseball To pitch (a ball) with a low sidearm or underhand motion.
Word Root of SUBMARINE. The Latin word mare, meaning “ sea, ” gives us the root mar. Words from Latin mare have something to do with the sea. Something mar ine, such as an animal or plant, lives in the sea. A mar ina is a dock in the sea where boats can anchor. A sub mar ine is a ship that operates underwater in the sea. : a naval ship designed to operate underwater. The Latin word mare, meaning “ sea, ” gives us the root mar. Words from Latin mare have something to do with the sea. Something mar ine, such as an animal or plant, lives in the sea.
noun. The definition of submarine is something that occurs or exists under the surface of the water. An animal that lives only below the surface of the sea is an example of a submarine animal. verb. 1  To attack by submarine, especially with torpedoes. 2  Sports To knock down with a blow to the legs. 3  Baseball To pitch (a ball) with a low sidearm or underhand motion.
(September 2015). A submarine sandwich, also known as a sub, wedge, hoagie, grinder, long sandwich, or one of the many regional naming variations, is a type of sandwich that consists of a long roll of bread split widthwise into two pieces, and filled with a variety of meats, cheeses, vegetables, seasonings, and sauces. 
Verb. 1. submarine-move forward or under in a sliding motion; The child was injured when he submarined under the safety belt of the car. slide, slew, slue, slip, skid-move obliquely or sideways, usually in an uncontrolled manner; the wheels skidded against the sidewalk. In this spot there is a submarine valley worn by Humboldt's current, which skirts the coast of America as far as the Straits of Magellan.