Over the years, farmers have developed many varieties of lettuce with many forms, textures and colors. Most fall into one of four categories -- crisphead, romaine (or cos), butterhead and loose-leaf. Crisphead lettuces include the iceberg strains, favorites in the United States. We all know why Popeye the Sailor was strong to the finish, and it wasn't weight training. It was because of spinach, one of the healthiest members of the dark green vegetable subgroup.
1 Hydroponic lettuce is not grown in soil, but in a nutrient rich liquid. 2  These small heads of lettuce have a buttery, spinach-like texture and delicate taste. 3  Unlike other types of lettuce, the outer leaves do not need to be discarded. 
Lettuce nutrition facts. Lettuce is one of poular green leafy-vegetables. Its crispy, green/crimson-red leaves are one of the incredible sources of essential nutrients that benefit health. Indeed, it is among the most sought-after greens, be it in your crunchy green salads or healthy sandwiches! Lettuce leaves exude milk-like fluid (sap) when cut, and hence its name derived from Latin lactuca for milk. Botanically this marvelous, nutrition rich leafy green belongs to the daisy family of Asteraceae. Raw, fresh-lettuce is commonly used in salads, burgers, spring rolls, and sandwiches. Chinese-lettuce is ideal for stir fries or stews and can be added to noodles as well as in fried-rice preparations. The leafy green also combines well with garden peas, green-beans as well as seafood like shrimp, prawns, etc.
Green leaf lettuce also delivers 10 percent of the recommended daily intake of vitamin C, which is twice the amount in romaine or butterhead lettuce. Iceberg has 3 to 7 percent fewer B vitamins. Iceberg only has half the amount of iron. The same serving size of green leaf, romaine or butterhead lettuce provides 3 to 5 percent of the recommended daily intake of calcium, magnesium, phosphorus and potassium.
Macronutrients. The four most common types of green lettuce -- green leaf, romaine, butterhead and iceberg -- have 13 to 17 calories in 100 grams, which is about a 1/2-cup serving of shredded lettuce. They deliver 1 gram of protein, or about 2 percent of the recommended daily intake. Iceberg only has half the amount of iron. The same serving size of green leaf, romaine or butterhead lettuce provides 3 to 5 percent of the recommended daily intake of calcium, magnesium, phosphorus and potassium.
The daily requirement for vitamin K is most commonly reached through diet, and leafy greens such as butter lettuce are rich in vitamin K. A 1-cup serving of chopped butter lettuce contains more than 56 micrograms of vitamin K. The recommended dietary intake for potassium for adults over 19 is 90 micrograms. Butter lettuce in field Photo Credit bangkokhappiness/iStock/Getty Images. Butter lettuce is a variety of butterhead lettuce, known for its smooth, loosely bunched, tender leaves. Because of its delicacy, this heading lettuce is often kept in plastic clamshell containers in grocery stores to protect it from accidental bruising
You’ll get 1 gram of iron from 100 grams of green leaf, romaine and butterhead lettuce. Since men and women have different iron needs, that’s 12 percent of the recommended daily intake for men and 5 percent for women. Iceberg only has half the amount of iron. The same serving size of green leaf, romaine or butterhead lettuce provides 3 to 5 percent of the recommended daily intake of calcium, magnesium, phosphorus and potassium.
Useful in a number of dishes, butter lettuce is rich in nutrients and can easily be added to salads, sandwiches and wraps. The delicate leaves can also be used to wrap other foods, creating a low-carbohydrate wrapper rich in nutrients. Butter lettuce in field Photo Credit bangkokhappiness/iStock/Getty Images. Butter lettuce is a variety of butterhead lettuce, known for its smooth, loosely bunched, tender leaves. Because of its delicacy, this heading lettuce is often kept in plastic clamshell containers in grocery stores to protect it from accidental bruising
With less than half a gram of fat, 3.63 grams of carbohydrate, 0.74 grams of protein, 1.53 grams of sugars and only 8 milligrams of sodium, butter lettuce is a low-fat, low-calorie, low-sodium food choice that is nonetheless rich in other nutrients. Butter lettuce in field Photo Credit bangkokhappiness/iStock/Getty Images. Butter lettuce is a variety of butterhead lettuce, known for its smooth, loosely bunched, tender leaves. Because of its delicacy, this heading lettuce is often kept in plastic clamshell containers in grocery stores to protect it from accidental bruising