Lobsters are usually caught in an underwater trap called a lobster pot, baited with dead fish. Lobsters usually feed on bottom dwellers like clams, snails, and crabs. Lobsters live in the murk and mud at the bottom of the ocean. Lobsters can grow up to four feet long and weigh as much as 40 pounds. It is believed that lobsters can live as long as 100 years. Lobsters have a crusher claw and a pincer claw; some lobsters have the crusher claw on the right side and others have it on the left.
Spiny lobsters tend to live in crevices of rocks and coral reefs, only occasionally venturing out at night to seek snails, clams, sea-hares, crabs, or sea urchins to eat. Sometimes, they migrate in very large groups in long files of lobsters across the sea floor. These lines may be more than 50 lobsters long. Spiny lobsters are found in almost all warm seas, including the Caribbean and the Mediterranean Sea, but are particularly common in Australasia, where they are referred to commonly as crayfish or sea crayfish (Jasus edwardsii), and in South Africa (Jasus lalandii).
Spiny lobsters are also, especially in Australia, New Zealand, South Africa and The Bahamas, sometimes called crayfish, sea crayfish or crawfish (kreef in South Africa), terms which elsewhere are reserved for freshwater crayfish. Spiny lobsters are found in almost all warm seas, including the Caribbean and the Mediterranean Sea, but are particularly common in Australasia, where they are referred to commonly as crayfish or sea crayfish (Jasus edwardsii), and in South Africa (Jasus lalandii).
Panulirus argus, the Caribbean spiny lobster, is a species of spiny lobster that lives on reefs and in mangrove swamps in the western Atlantic Ocean. Other common names for the species in the United States include spiny lobster, Bermuda spiny lobster, common spiny lobster, crawfish, Florida spiny lobster, West Indian langouste and West Indian spiny lobster.
Spiny Lobster—General Facts. Commonly referred to as the Florida spiny lobster, the Caribbean spiny lobster inhabits tropical and subtropical waters of the Atlantic Ocean, Caribbean Sea, and Gulf of Mexico. Spiny lobsters get their name from the forward-pointing spines that cover their bodies to help protect them from predators. 
Caribbean spiny lobsters, sometimes called Florida lobster or rock lobster, is a highly fecund species that can be long-lived, depending on the level of fishing pressure. Migration routes do make them easy to capture in large numbers. Caribbean spiny lobsters are found in the warm waters off the southeastern United States, in the Gulf of Mexico, and throughout the Caribbean to Brazil.
Caribbean spiny lobsters, Panulirus argus (Latreille, 1804), aka Florida spiny lobsters, grow to about 60 cm in length. Like the other 20 members of the genus Panulirus, such as the Australian, California, and Chinese spiny lobsters, they lack the large pinching claws of their Maine lobster relatives. Caribbean spiny lobsters, Panulirus argus, are a popular seafood and commercially fished. Since about 1970, the commercial landings of Caribbean spiny lobsters in Florida have varied without trend between 1,950,447- 3,583,379 kg per fishing season.
Caribbean spiny lobsters, Panulirus argus, inhabit tropical and subtropical waters of the Atlantic Ocean, Caribbean Sea, and Gulf of Mexico. This nocturnal species inhabits coral reefs where they hide during the day in crevices under ledges. Caribbean spiny lobsters, Panulirus argus, are a popular seafood and commercially fished. Since about 1970, the commercial landings of Caribbean spiny lobsters in Florida have varied without trend between 1,950,447- 3,583,379 kg per fishing season.
Caribbean spiny lobsters, Panulirus argus, feed primarily on gastropods, chitons, bivalves, and carrion from the ocean floor. They are also known to feed on sea urchins, worms, crustaceans, and some types of sea vegetation. Caribbean spiny lobsters, Panulirus argus, are a popular seafood and commercially fished. Since about 1970, the commercial landings of Caribbean spiny lobsters in Florida have varied without trend between 1,950,447- 3,583,379 kg per fishing season.