Gunnar. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Gunnar is a male first name of Nordic origin (Gunnarr in Old Norse), also known as 'Roland.' The name Gunnar means fighter, soldier, and attacker, but mostly is referred to by the Viking saying which means Brave and Bold warrior (gunnr war and arr warrior). 
Swedish Meaning: The name Gunner is a Swedish baby name. In Swedish the meaning of the name Gunner is: Battle strong. American Meaning: The name Gunner is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Gunner is: Battle strong. Teutonic Meaning: The name Gunner is a Teutonic baby name. In Teutonic the meaning of the name Gunner is: Bold warrior.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Gunner. Gunner is the transferred use of an English surname originating as an occupation name from the Olde English “gonne, gunne” meaning ‘cannon’ signifying a person whose job it was to load the heavy artillery and fire the cannons.
Gunner is used mostly in the English language and its language of origin is Germanic. Gunner is a derivative of the German name Guenther. Günther see also the related, form The english And Scandinavian. Gunnar gunner is a popular baby name for, boys and it is also considered. trendy Gunner is a popular baby name for boys, and it is also considered trendy. The name has been rising in popularity since the 1990s; prior to that, it was of sporadic use only. At the modest peak of its usage in 2012, 0.059% of baby boys were given the name Gunner. It ranked at #293 then.
Gunner /gun-ner/ [2 sylls.] as a name for boys is of German origin, and Gunner means battler, warrior. Gunner is a variant transcription of Gunther (German): Gunnar is a Scandinavian variant. Ganner is a conventional surname. Gunner is a rare first name for males but a very popular surname for all people (#29142 out of 150436, Top 19%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Gunner for boys. Gunner was first listed in 1994 and reached its peak rank of #235 in the U.S. in 2014. (2014 Birth Statistics).
Origin of the name Gunnar: Derived from the Old Norse Gunnarr, which is from the word gunnr (war, strife, battle). The name Gunnar was borne by several interesting characters in Norse mythology, one of whom was the son of Giuki and Grimhild. He was the brother of Gudrun and the husband of Brynhild. 
[ 2 syll. gun-ner, gu-nn-er ] The baby boy name Gunner is pronounced as G AH N-er-or G UW-N-er †. Gunner is used mostly in the English language and its language of origin is Germanic. Gunner is a derivative of the German name Guenther. Günther see also the related, form The english And Scandinavian. gunnar Gunner is a popular baby name for boys, and it is also considered trendy. The name has been rising in popularity since the 1990s; prior to that, it was of sporadic use only. At the modest peak of its usage in 2012, 0.059% of baby boys were given the name Gunner. It ranked at #293 then.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Gunner and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Gunner and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. 
Origin of the name Gunner: Derived from the Old Norse Gunnarr, which is from the word gunnr (war, strife, battle). The name Gunnar was borne by several interesting characters in Norse mythology, one of whom was the son of Giuki and Grimhild. He was the brother of Gudrun and the husband of Brynhild. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.