Several important diseases of the nervous system are associated with dysfunctions of the dopamine system. Parkinson's disease, a degenerative condition causing tremor and motor impairment, is caused by loss of dopamine-secreting neurons in a midbrain area called the substantia nigra. L-DOPA, the metabolic precursor of dopamine, does reach the brain and is the most widely used treatment for Parkinson's disease. Dopaminergic stimulants can be addictive in high doses, but some are used at lower doses to treat ADHD.
Dopamine is an organic chemical of the catecholamine and phenethylamine families that plays several important roles in the human brain and body, as well as elsewhere in biology. Its name derives from its chemical structure: it is an amine formed by removing a carboxyl group from a molecule of L-DOPA. In the brain, dopamine functions as a neurotransmitter —a chemical released by nerve cells to send signals to other nerve cells. L-DOPA, the metabolic precursor of dopamine, does reach the brain and is the most widely used treatment for Parkinson's disease. Dopaminergic stimulants can be addictive in high doses, but some are used at lower doses to treat ADHD.
One of the catecholamine neurotransmitters in the brain. It is derived from tyrosine and is the precursor to norepinephrine and epinephrine. Dopamine is a major transmitter in the extrapyramidal system of the brain, and important in regulating movement. A family of receptors (receptors, dopamine) mediate its action. 
The tissue from which the neurotransmitter/hormone is derived expresses a specific set, or all, of these enzymes such that only dopamine (substantia nigra) is the result, or only norepinephrine (locus coeruleus), or both norepinephrine and epinephrine (adrenal medulla). Tyrosine-Derived Neurotransmitters / Hormones. Much of the tyrosine that does not get incorporated into proteins is catabolized for energy production. Another significant fate of tyrosine is conversion to the catecholamines. The catecholamines are dopamine, norepinephrine, and epinephrine
Cells derived from the fetal midbrain can modify the course of the disease, but they are an inadequate source of dopamine-synthesizing neurons because their ability to generate these neurons is unstable. In contrast, embryonic stem (ES) cells proliferate extensively and can generate dopamine neurons. Parkinson's disease is a widespread condition caused by the loss of midbrain neurons that synthesize the neurotransmitter dopamine.
Ergot-derived dopamine agonists are a group of medicines consisting of bromocriptine, cabergoline, dihydroergocryptine, lisuride and pergolide. They have been available on the market for many years and are mainly used to treat Parkinson’s disease, either on their own or in combination with other medicines. 1 Doctors should prescribe ergot-derived dopamine agonists according to the updated prescribing information. 2  Ergot-derived dopamine agonists should not be taken by patients who have had fibrosis in the heart, lungs or abdomen. 3  The absence of fibrosis in the heart should be verified before treatment is started.
Dopamine: one of the catecholamine neurotransmitters in the brain; it is derived from tyrosine and is the precursor to norepinephrine and epinephrine; dopamine is a major transmitter in the extrapyramidal system of the brain, and important in regulating movement; dopamine receptors mediate its action. Source: CRISP. It is derived from tyrosine and is the precursor to NOREPINEPHRINE and EPINEPHRINE. Dopamine is a major transmitter in the extrapyramidal system of the brain, and important in regulating movement. A family of receptors (RECEPTORS, DOPAMINE) mediate its action. Source: MeSH 2007.
Dopamine: One of the catecholamine NEUROTRANSMITTERS in the brain. It is derived from tyrosine and is the precursor to NOREPINEPHRINE and EPINEPHRINE. Dopamine is a major transmitter in the extrapyramidal system of the brain, and important in regulating movement. A family of receptors (RECEPTORS, DOPAMINE) mediate its action. Source: MeSH 2007.