In some body locales, friction and other forces dictate a lining epithelium be more durable for protection. Stratified epithelia consist of two or more layers of epithelial cells cemented together. In the most severe environments, epithelia consist of multiple layers to provide maximum
Definition of EPITHELIUM. 1. : a membranous cellular tissue that covers a free surface or lines a tube or cavity of an animal body and serves especially to enclose and protect the other parts of the body, to produce secretions and excretions, and to function in assimilation. 2.
Epithelia Cells that line surfaces: Epithelium is the name given to the cells that line a surface. The outer surface of the body is lined by an epithelium called the epidermis. The inside of the body cavity is also lined by an epithelium, as is the outer surface of many internal organs.
Medical Definition of EPITHELIUM. : a membranous cellular tissue that covers a free surface or lines a tube or cavity of an animal body and serves especially to enclose and protect the other parts of the body, to produce secretions and excretions, and to function in assimilation.
The term epithelium refers to layers of cells that line hollow organs and glands. It is also those cells that make up the outer surface of the body. Epithelial cells help to protect or enclose organs.
Types of non-keratinized epithelium include tissue that lines the esophagus. Skin is made up of epithelial tissue. Transitional epithelium is found only in the urinary system structures of the renal pelvis, bladder ureter and urethra. The urothelium is tissue found in the bladder that helps prevent previously filtered wastes from getting back into the bloodstream.
There are three principal shapes of epithelial cells: squamous, columnar, and cuboidal. These can be arranged in a single layer of cells as simple epithelium, either squamous, columnar or cuboidal, or in layers of two or more cells deep as stratified (layered), either squamous, columnar or cuboidal.