Arabica is a variety of coffee plant from which coffee beans are harvested; in the same way that Shiraz is a variety of vine from which grapes are harvested for producing wine. There are several varieties of coffee plant, but only two varieties are grown commercially: Arabica and Robusta. 
Robusta is a sturdy species of coffee bean with low acidity and high bitterness; it is used primarily in instant coffee, espresso, and as a filler in ground coffee blends. Roasted robusta beans produce a strong, full-bodied coffee with a distinctive earthy flavour, but usually with more bitterness than arabica due to its pyrazine content.
Robusta is grown exclusively in the Eastern Hemisphere, primarily in Africa and Indonesia. Arabica is also grown in Africa and Papua New Guinea, but it's grown dominantly in Latin America. Colombia only produces Arabica beans. Some countries, like Brazil and India, produce both. Arabica, then, ends up being pricier, of course. Most supermarket coffee is exclusively robusta, and instant and cheap ground coffees are certainly robusta. You can still find Arabica in the grocery store, but just because it's labeled Arabica does not mean it's of high quality.
Robusta Coffee refers to coffee that has been brewed using robusta coffee beans instead of arabica beans, which are the most common beans used to make coffee. Robusta coffee beans have on average 83% more caffeine than arabica beans, so making coffee with these beans will produce a cup of coffee with 83% more caffeine. According to CoffeeChemistry.com a robusta bean is 2.2% caffeine, while an arabica bean is 1.2% caffeine. There are many factors that can influence the exact caffeine content of robusta coffee including: growing conditions, bean quality, and brewing method. Our amounts are an average of what one could expect.
Robusta coffee beans come from a resilient plant that is able to be grown in low altitudes of 200-800 meters. Robusta beans aren’t very susceptible to damage done by pests. Additionally, they produce more finished product per acre and require fairly low production costs. Because Robusta is more a resilient plant than the delicate Arabica, it can be grown in more places. Large coffee companies buy huge amounts of rainforest, clear-cut the land and plant Robusta beans. Robusta is often mixed with Arabica, allowing the coffee companies to save a pretty penny and serve you a crappy cup.
Arabica beans and robusta beans are two different species of coffee grown commercially for consumption as coffee. The general differences are those of taste, the conditions under which the two species grow and economic differences. Taste: Arabicas have a wider taste range, between varieties. Many great espresso blends use robusta for it's strength and crema. I should also mention that Arabica does not equal quality. Over seventy percent of the coffee grown throughout the world is arabica. Much of it is garbage so do not assume that just because you are buying arabica you are getting a quality coffee.
Robusta is easy to care for, has a greater crop yield than arabica coffea, has almost double the amount of caffeine and more antioxidants than arabica coffea, and is less susceptible to disease. Roasted robusta beans produce a strong, full-bodied coffee with a distinctive earthy flavour, but usually with more bitterness than arabica due to its pyrazine content.
One common theme that both Arabica and Robusta share is that they are both under the classification of coffee. In fact, Arabica and Robusta are two of the three varieties of the coffee plant. 1 Both Arabica and Robusta are popular varieties of the coffee plant. 2  Each variety produces different kinds of beans. 3  The majority of coffee plants and beans are of the Arabica variety. 4  Arabica is known to have a wide range in taste, mild and balanced flavor.
The two varieties differ in taste, growing conditions, price. Arabica beans tend to have a sweeter, softer taste, with tones of sugar, fruit, and berries. Their acidity is higher, with that winey taste that characterizes coffee with excellent acidity. Arabica, then, ends up being pricier, of course. Most supermarket coffee is exclusively robusta, and instant and cheap ground coffees are certainly robusta. You can still find Arabica in the grocery store, but just because it's labeled Arabica does not mean it's of high quality.