Effects of the Ozone Hole. Thinning of ozone layer means getting direct in touch with ultra violet rays which can cause skin cancer or skin irritation which can lead to death. A decrease in 1% of ozone layer can cause 5% increase in cases of skin cancer. Ozone is made up of oxygen and is produced naturally in the atmosphere. As the presence of ozone gets reduced in the atmosphere, it causes the ozone layer to get thinner and thinner. The more ozone layer gets thin, the more big gets the size of ozone hole
The ozone layer prevents the harmful ultraviolet B-waves (UV-B) from reaching the earth. Increased exposure to UV-B is thought to be responsible for increases in skin cancer, eye cataracts and damage to plants and plankton. CFCs and similar man-made gases break down the ozone in the stratosphere allowing in harmful ultraviolet radiation. The ozone hole happens mostly in Antarctica where four months of winter darkness create ideal conditions for the destruction.
The deterioration of the ozone layer, caused by Cfcs, endangers the lives of humans'. Cfcs have a diminishing effect on the ozone layer. Furthermore, the deterioration of the ozone cause an increase of Ultraviolet (UV) radiation which can have a negative effect on human skin and eyes. As a writer for newsweek, I have investigated the scenario and found the following information. The type of UV rays absorbed by the ozone layer are the same ones that are most harmful to humans; skin cancer and cataracts. Furthermore, depletion of the ozone layer results in increased UV radiation exposure. One affect of UV on humans is skin cancer.
Yes. Ozone deterioration is very harmful. When the ozone deteriorates, detrimental UV rays pass through the ozone. Ozone deteriation causes respiratory problems, skin aging, sunburn, snow blindness, depression of the immune system, skin cance r, eye cataracts and blindness. 
Cfcs Cause Deterioration of the Ozone Layer. The deterioration of the ozone layer, caused by Cfcs, endangers the lives of humans'. Cfcs have a diminishing effect on the ozone layer. Furthermore, the deterioration of the ozone cause an increase of Ultraviolet (UV) radiation which can have a negative effect on human skin and eyes. As a writer for newsweek, I have investigated the scenario and found the following information. 
This results in a thinning of the ozone layer, and in polar regions, a hole. The holes occur at the poles, and usually in Antarctica because of the extreme cold. During the winter polar stratospheric clouds form which are able to convert gases in the atmosphere into Cl (chlorine) and ClO (chlorine monoxide). CFCs and similar man-made gases break down the ozone in the stratosphere allowing in harmful ultraviolet radiation. The ozone hole happens mostly in Antarctica where four months of winter darkness create ideal conditions for the destruction.
Today, there is widespread concern that the ozone layer is deteriorating due to the release of pollution containing the chemicals chlorine and bromine. Such deterioration allows large amounts of ultraviolet B rays to reach Earth, which can cause skin cancer and cataracts in humans and harm animals as well. Photograph by Stephen G. St. John. The ozone layer is a belt of naturally occurring ozone gas that sits 9.3 to 18.6 miles (15 to 30 kilometers) above Earth and serves as a shield from the harmful ultraviolet B radiation emitted by the sun. Ozone is a highly reactive molecule that contains three oxygen atoms.
What is Ozone Depletion? Ozone layer depletion, is simply the wearing out (reduction) of the amount of ozone in the stratosphere. Unlike pollution, which has many types and causes, Ozone depletion has been pinned down to one major human activity. 