Guide. A urine culture is a test to find and identify germs (usually bacteria) that may be causing a urinary tract infection (UTI) . Urine in the bladder normally is sterile-it does not contain any bacteria or other organisms (such as fungi). But bacteria can enter the urethra and cause an infection. A urine sample is kept under conditions that allow bacteria and other organisms to grow. If few or no organisms grow, the test is negative. If organisms grow in numbers large enough to indicate an infection, the culture is positive.
A culture that is reported as no growth in 24 or 48 hours usually indicates that there is no infection. If the symptoms persist, however, a urine culture may be repeated on another sample to look for the presence of bacteria at lower colony counts or other microorganisms that may cause these symptoms. Pregnant women without any symptoms may be screened for bacteria in their urine, which could affect the health and development of the fetus. A urine culture may be ordered with a urinalysis or as follow up to abnormal results on a urinalysis.
Guide. A blood culture is a test to find an infection in the blood. The blood does not normally have any bacteria or fungi in it. A blood culture can show what bacteria or fungi are in the blood. 1 A culture can also show what type of bacteria is causing the infection. 2  Find a fungal infection, such as yeast, in the blood. 3  Check for endocarditis, which is an infection of the valves of the heart. 4  Find the best antibiotics to kill the bacteria or fungi.
A blood culture is a laboratory test to check for bacteria or other microorganisms in a blood sample. Most cultures check for bacteria. A culture may be done using a sample of blood, tissue, stool, urine, or other fluid from the body. See also: 1  Bronchoscopic culture. 2  CSF culture. 3  Endocervix culture. 4  Fecal culture. 
Blood cultures are used to detect the presence of bacteria or fungi in the blood, to identify the type present, and to guide treatment. Testing is used to identify a blood infection (septicemia) that can lead to sepsis, a serious and life-threatening complication. If one blood culture set is positive and one set is negative, it may mean that an infection or skin contaminant is present. The health practitioner will consider the person's clinical status and the type of bacteria or fungi found before making a diagnosis.
What is a Culture Test. A culture is a sample of tissue or fluid taken from the body that can be evaluated in the laboratory to detect and identify infections, as well as determine sensitivity to antibiotics. Cultures are obtained to assist the provider in determining the type of infection and in directing the antibiotic choice. Sputum Culture. Sputum is produced in the lungs and in the airways leading to the lungs. Sputum culture testing helps detect and identify bacteria or fungi that are infecting the lungs or breathing passages like bronchitis or pneumonia.
A urine culture may be ordered when symptoms indicate the possibility of a urinary tract infection, such as pain and burning when urinating and frequent urge to urinate. Pregnant women without any symptoms may be screened for bacteria in their urine, which could affect the health and development of the fetus. A urine culture may be ordered with a urinalysis or as follow up to abnormal results on a urinalysis.
A throat culture test can help indicate whether the infection is: Candida albicans (a fungus that causes thrush in the throat or mouth), Group A streptococcus (which causes strep throat, scarlet fever, and rheumatic fever), or Neisseria meningitides (a bacteria that can cause meningitis). Sputum Culture. Sputum is produced in the lungs and in the airways leading to the lungs. Sputum culture testing helps detect and identify bacteria or fungi that are infecting the lungs or breathing passages like bronchitis or pneumonia.
Skin and Wound Culture. Skin and/or wound cultures are taken and used to detect and identify germs (such as a bacteria, fungus, or virus) that may be growing on or within the tissue and skin. These samples help find the cause of an infection in a sore, burn, or surgical wound. Sputum Culture. Sputum is produced in the lungs and in the airways leading to the lungs. Sputum culture testing helps detect and identify bacteria or fungi that are infecting the lungs or breathing passages like bronchitis or pneumonia.