Fava beans (also known as broad beans) are the king of all beans; their flavor is smoother, sweeter and richer than most other beans. 
Definition of BROAD BEAN. : the large flat edible seed of an Old World upright vetch (Vicia faba); also: this plant widely grown for its seeds and as fodder —called also fava bean — compare favism. See broad bean defined for English-language learners. See broad bean defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 1783. 
Fava beans are dense with vitamins and minerals. Fava beans are dense with nutrition. Also known as broad beans, fava beans have no saturated fat or cholesterol and contain a high concentration of thiamin, vitamin K, vitamin B-6, potassium, copper, selenium, zinc and magnesium. They are also an inexpensive source of lean protein. 
The broad bean (Vicia faba), an annual legume, has origins in the Mediterranean and North Africa where it is an important culinary ingredient. The broad bean has many popular names including the fava bean, Windsor bean, English bean, horse bean and field bean. It has a protein content second only to the soya bean. The broad bean is a favorite vegetable in Spain, France, Italy, Australia and the U.K. In Egypt and the Middle East, broad beans replace chick peas as the basis for making hummus. In Ethiopia and other parts of North Africa a kind of flavored broad bean paste similar to hummus is eaten with flatbreads.
Fava beans. Fava beans are a broad green legume that grow in long pods and are popular in many Mediterranean and Middle Eastern cuisines. Fava beans are almost always removed from the pods before preparing them, although it is possible to braise whole fava bean pods. 
The broad bean, also known as the fava bean, faba bean and horse bean, is the original and only bean of the Old World. A vetch, related to the pea families, and a legume, it has been used as a human food source for more than 8,000 years and has made a lasting mark on European, Middle Eastern and Indian cultures. Agricultural Information. The broad bean is a cool weather crop, grown in late fall, winter and spring, but seldom in the summer in any but the coolest of regions. It tolerates most soils, though alkaline soil can reduce the amount of nitrogen the plant is able to fix into the soil.
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. Fava beans are one of the oldest plants under cultivation, and they were eaten in ancient Greece and Rome. Despite the name, fava beans are a member of the pea family, though they are also known as broad beans, pigeon beans, horse beans, and windsor beans. They are popular in Mediterranean cuisine, with many summer dishes celebrating the seasonal bean, although they are also dried for winter use. 
Vicia faba, also known as the broad bean, fava bean, faba bean, field bean, bell bean, or tic bean, is a species of flowering plant in the pea and bean family Fabaceae. It is native to North Africa southwest and south Asia, and extensively cultivated elsewhere. A variety Vicia faba var. Faba bean rust is a fungal pathogen commonly affecting broad bean plants at maturity, causing small orange dots with yellow halos on the leaves, which may merge to form an orange lawn on both leaf surfaces.
The term bean originally referred to the seed of the broad or fava bean, but was later expanded to include members of the New World genus Phaseolus, such as the common bean and the runner bean, and the related genus Vigna. 