Obtuse Triangle. An obtuse triangle is a triangle in which one of the angles is an obtuse angle. (Obviously, only a single angle in a triangle can be obtuse or it wouldn't be a triangle .) A triangle must be either obtuse, acute, or right. From the law of cosines, for a triangle with side lengths, , and, (1). with the angle opposite side. 
Right Triangles. A right triangle is a triangle where one of its angles is a right angle (i.e. 90°). The other two angles are acute angles. You may have noticed that the side opposite the right angle is always the triangle's longest side. It is called the hypotenuse of the triangle. The other two sides are called the legs. For example, in trigonometry and also in the Pythagorean Theorem. The lengths of the sides of a right triangle are related by the Pythagorean Theorem. There are also special right triangles where the sides are of certain fixed ratios. A right triangle can be isosceles if the two legs are equal in length. A right isosceles triangle will have a 90º angle and two 45º angle
1 A triangle with all interior angles measuring less than 90° is an acute triangle or acute-angled triangle. 2  If c is the length of the longest side, then, where a and b are the lengths of the other sides. 3  A triangle with one interior angle measuring more than 90° is an obtuse triangle or obtuse-angled triangle. 1 If the legs of a right triangle have the same length, then the angles opposite those legs have the same measure. 2  Since these angles are complementary, it follows that each measures 45 degrees. 3  By the Pythagorean theorem, the length of the hypotenuse is the length of a leg times √2.
An acute triangle is a triangle with all three angles acute (less than 90°). An obtuse triangle is one with one obtuse angle (greater than 90°) and two acute angles. Since a triangle's angles must sum to 180°, no triangle can have more than one obtuse angle. Acute and obtuse triangles are the two different types of oblique triangles —triangles that are not right triangles because they have no 90° angle. 
1 A triangle with one interior angle measuring more than 90° is an obtuse triangle or obtuse-angled triangle. 2  If c is the length of the longest side, then, where a and b are the lengths of the other sides. 1 If the legs of a right triangle have the same length, then the angles opposite those legs have the same measure. 2  Since these angles are complementary, it follows that each measures 45 degrees. 3  By the Pythagorean theorem, the length of the hypotenuse is the length of a leg times √2.
The lengths of the sides of a triangle are given. The lengths of the sides of a triangle are given. Classify each triangle as acute, obtuse, or right. 1. Lengths are 7, 8, and 9. 2. Lengths are 15, 36, and 39. 3. Lengths are 10, 12, and 16. 4. A square has a 40-cm diagonal. Round your answer to the nearest tenth of... show more The lengths of the sides of a triangle are given. Classify each triangle as acute, obtuse, or right. 1. Lengths are 7, 8, and 9. 2. Lengths are 15, 36, and 39. 3. Lengths are 10, 12, and 16.
Given 3 possible side lengths for a triangle, this video shows you how to figure out if you have a right triangle, acute triangle, obtuse triangle, or no triangle at all. 
Pythagorean Thereom converse: If the square of one side of a triangle is equal to the sum of the squares of the other two sides, then the triangle is a right triangle. Write the Converse Theorem and complete the proof in your Journal. Given: ABC with. Prove: ABC is a right triangle. 