Mouse (murine) DNA is more similar to human DNA. The genomes are roughly the same size with a similar number of genes. Dog (canine) DNA has fewer genes than both human and mou … se DNA and have fewer similarities. The homology of humans to mice genes is approximately 99% while the homology of humans to dog genes is around 94%.
The DNA structure shows important information on how DNA replication occurs. The pairing pattern of the nitrogen bases is the key to understanding how it occurs. The four nitr … ogen bases are adenine, thymine, guanine, and cytosine. Only adenine and thymine pair together and only guanine and cytosine pair together. Dog (canine) DNA has fewer genes than both human and mou … se DNA and have fewer similarities. The homology of humans to mice genes is approximately 99% while the homology of humans to dog genes is around 94%.
The amounts of adenine and thymine in the DNA of a human, cat, and  eucalyptus tree are all very similar. Also the adenine and guanine  amounts will always equal the thymine … and cytosine amounts. Dog (canine) DNA has fewer genes than both human and mou … se DNA and have fewer similarities. The homology of humans to mice genes is approximately 99% while the homology of humans to dog genes is around 94%.
Report Abuse. Plant DNA and animal DNA is completely different. The difference between a tree and a human is exponentially different. Notice how trees don't have the sense of touch, sight, smell, or taste. Also, they have no nervous system. It really is quite apparent. 
For example, the human chromosomes are very similar to the chromosomes of the great apes. The difference lies in human chromosome number 2. Instead of a single chromosome 2 the great apes have two smaller ones which contain the equal gene sequences. 
In the human genome (total genetic information in the nucleus of the cell), there are roughly three billion base pairs of DNA with about 20,000 genes (regions that code for proteins). Surprisingly, only about 1 percent of the DNA actually codes for proteins. The rest is non-coding DNA. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The amounts of adenine and thymine in the DNA of a human, cat, and eucalyptus tree are all very similar. Also the adenine and guanine amounts will always equal the thymine and cytosine amounts. All DNA is made up of the same building blocks arranged on the same double helix. The difference is how the nucleotides (A,T,C,G) are arranged and how many chromosomes there a … re.
Genes are sections of DNA. A single gene is marked in Figure 1.1.6. Each chromosome can have over 1000 genes. The difference between one gene and the next is the:• order of bases along the DNA strand• length of the DNA strand.The order of the bases along the DNA strand is the genetic code. 1.1 DNA the molecule Organisms on Earth have many differences. Not many people would confuse an elephant with an earthworm, a tree with a tarantula or a penguin with a python. However, at one level the differences between organisms are not as great as you might think.
The eucalyptus tree is a genus of flowering trees and shrubs in the myrtle family, Myrtaceae, common in Australia, to which it is native. There are over 700 species of Eucalyp … tus, and beside Australia, around 15 species are found in their native state in parts of New Guinea and Indonesia. All DNA is made up of the same building blocks arranged on the same double helix. The difference is how the nucleotides (A,T,C,G) are arranged and how many chromosomes there a … re.