The 2 types of computer memory are ROM and RAM. These stand for Read Only Memory and Random Access Memory, respectively. Read Only memory is the type of memory that is non-volatile, which means that the data contained here is never lost, even when the computer is shut down.
Software components of a computer system have no physical presence, they are stored in digital form within computer memory. There are different categories of software, including system software, utilities and applications software. Software can also be described as being either generic or bespoke.
Software is basically a collection of programs or a single program that allows you to perform some functions. John Turkey is 1958 was the first person to ever use this term. Types of computer software basically refers to the language or codes that are involved in various operations of a computer system. Different types of computer software of your choice are available in the market. The three main types of software are programming, system and application software.
Personal Computer or PC – A PC is a computer that is used by someone for his personal use. It is a complete system in itself and its convenient size, price and simple functions make it easy for the end-user to work on it without any intervention from computer operators.
Types of Computers & Their Functions. Computers are used for a variety of applications---from scientific data recording to engineering to everyday personal...
As technology continues to progress by leaps and bounds, it is not surprising that the computer has been modified into different shapes, with varied features and a wide range of purposes. Let us take a look at the different types of computers which will help us understand their functions and what they are used for.
The Different Types of Computers. October 10, 2014 Type Lister Science and Technology 3. A computer is one of the greatest inventions of man and it has seen many changes in functions, memory space, size and portability.
As a result, computer functions and the models themselves vary based on usage and application. Several types of computers exist with functions ranging from complex scientific calculations such as weather monitoring and tracking to processing simple tasks such as surfing the Internet and checking email.