Gastroschisis is a defect in the abdominal wall, usually to the right of the umbilical cord, through which the large and small intestines protrude (although other organs may sometimes bulge out). There is no membrane covering the exposed organs in gastroschisis. No genetic mutations are known to cause an abdominal wall defect. Multiple genetic and environmental factors likely influence the development of this disorder. Omphalocele and gastroschisis are caused by different errors in fetal development. Omphalocele occurs during an error in digestive tract
Omphalocele: A birth defect in which part of the intestine, covered only by a thin transparent membrane, protrudes outside the abdomen at the umbilicus. An omphalocele occurs due to a failure during embryonic development for a section of the intestines (the midgut) to return from outside the abdomen and reenter the abdomen as it should. The opening in the abdominal wall cannot close because to do so would pinch off part of the intestines.
Baby with a giant omphalocele, in which the liver assumes an ectopic position in the epigastrium. Gastroschisis complicated by jejunal atresia and loss of the entire distal small bowel = the grey tissue. Prophylactic antibiotics may be given preoperatively if an associated intestinal anomaly is suspected. Closure of a small or moderate-sized omphalocele is accomplished without difficulty. A baby with a ruptured omphalocele is treated the same way as a baby with gastroschisis.
Omphalocele. Omphalocele is a type of abdominal wall defect in which the bowel, liver and other abdominal organs protrude out of the abdomen and into the base of the umbilical cord, covered by a clear, thin membrane or sac. Surgical repair is performed primarily in stages. 
When the intestines do not return from the umbilical cord, this is what causes an Omphalocele. The omphalocele will not have skin on top of it, only the umbilical membrane. An umbilical herniation is a weakening of the muscles/fascia around the umbilicus and protrudes tissue/organs through that area. Skin will be covering the herniation. It is not covered w/skin. An umbilical hernia may present itself @ birth, but you're more likely to see it later in infancy, childhood, or (if female) not even til pregnancy--it's actually sort of an umbilical rupture then. Skin does cover the defect, and it is no where near as large as an o
Omphalocele occurs when the intestines do not recede back into the abdomen, but remain in the umbilical cord. Other abdominal organs can also protrude through this opening, resulting in the varied organ involvement that occurs in omphalocele. No genetic mutations are known to cause an abdominal wall defect. Multiple genetic and environmental factors likely influence the development of this disorder. Omphalocele and gastroschisis are caused by different errors in fetal development. Omphalocele occurs during an error in digestive tract
The noun OMPHALOCELE has 1 sense: 1. protrusion of the intestine and omentum through a hernia in the abdominal wall near the navel; usually self correcting after birth. Familiarity information: OMPHALOCELE used as a noun is very rare. Don't mend what ain't broken. (English proverb). There is no man nor thing without his defect, and often they have two or three of them (Breton proverb).
An omphalocele is an [usually large] abdominal wall defect; it is a surgical emergency, and the baby usually goes to the OR w/in the 1st 24 hrs of life. It is not covered w/skin. An umbilical hernia may present itself @ birth, but you're more likely to see it later in infancy, childhood, or (if female) not even til pregnancy--it's actually sort of an umbilical rupture then. Skin does cover the defect, and it is no where near as large as an omphalocele.
Finally, doctors told her the news: Baby Hayes' organs were developing on the outside of his body. The condition, known as an omphalocele, is a birth defect in which the fetus' intestines and other abdominal organs stick out from the belly button. Once we heard the word, 'omphalocele,' it was our world, said Davis, 29, of Texas. A thin membrane that keeps the organs in tact usually covers the omphalocele. While the condition can range in size and severity, the intestines, and sometimes the liver and spleen, protrude outside the baby's body.