A normal resting heart rate for adults ranges from 60 to 100 beats a minute. Generally, a lower heart rate at rest implies more efficient heart function and better cardiovascular fitness. For example, a well-trained athlete might have a normal resting heart rate closer to 40 beats a minute. To measure your heart rate, simply check your pulse. Place your index and third fingers on your neck to the side of your windpipe.
When someone refers to resting pulse rate, it often means the rate at which the heart beats when the body is at rest. Resting pulse rates within a normal range is an indication of good health, asserts the National Institutes of Health. For women, a normal resting heart rate isn't different than in a man. The National Institutes of Health state that 60 to 100 beats per minute is considered normal for a resting pulse rate. Any female over 10 years of age should fall within this resting pulse rate range, unless they are well-trained athletically. Resting Pulse Rate. The National Institutes of Health state that 60 to 100 beats per minute is considered normal for a resting pulse rate. Any female over 10 years of age should fall within this resting pulse rate range, unless they are well-trained athletically.
Thus, a normal heart rate for women is between 70 to 80 beats per minute. For women that are into health and fitness and exercise regularly this range may go down and be between 45 to 60 beats per minute. Your heart rate is affected by factors such as: 
Feb. 3, 2009 -- A woman's resting pulse rate is a good predictor of her heart attack risk regardless of other risk factors, such as smoking and alcohol consumption, researchers say. A team of scientists analyzed records of 129,135 postmenopausal women who had no history of heart problems. 
Most adults have a resting heart rate of 60-100 beats per minute (bpm). The fitter you are, the lower your resting heart rate is likely to be. For example, athletes may have a resting heart rate of 40-60 bpm or lower. You should contact your GP if you think your heart rate is continuously above 120 bpm or below 40 bpm, although this could just be normal for you.
Normal Pulse Rates for Women. A pulse is the measurement of how many times your heart beats per minute. The normal pulse for a healthy adult is between 60 and 100 beats per minute. A number of factors determine where your pulse should range. First, women over 13 generally have a higher pulse than do men. Pulse Rates At Rest. At rest, a woman's pulse should always be lower. A normal pulse for a woman not currently involved in a strenuous activity is between 60 to 70 beats per minute. It is not uncommon for a woman's pulse to be slightly higher or lower depending on other factors
For adults 18 and older, a normal resting heart rate is between 60 and 100 beats per minute (bpm), depending on the person’s physical condition and age. For children ages 6 to 15, the normal resting heart rate is between 70 and 100 bpm, according to the AHA. Heart rate, also known as pulse, is the number of times a person's heart beats per minute. A normal heart rate depends on the individual, age, body size, heart conditions, whether the person is sitting or moving, medication use and even air temperature. Even emotions can have an impact on heart rate.
Normal Pulse Rates for Women. A pulse is the measurement of how many times your heart beats per minute. The normal pulse for a healthy adult is between 60 and 100 beats per minute. A number of factors determine where your pulse should range. First, women over 13 generally have a higher pulse than do 