Call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects: 1  easy bruising or bleeding, unusual weakness; 2  fever, sore throat, and headache with a severe blistering, peeling, and red skin rash; or. 3  fever with chills, body aches, or flu-like symptoms. It has the following chemical structure: Albendazole is a white to yellowish powder. It is freely soluble in anhydrous formic acid and very slightly soluble in ether and in methylene chloride. Albendazole is practically insoluble in alcohol and in water.
How to use albendazole. Take this medication by mouth with meals, usually 1 to 2 times daily or as directed by your doctor. If you or your child have trouble swallowing tablets, you may crush or chew your dose and take it with water. Dosage is based on your weight, medical condition, and response to treatment. OTHER USES: This section contains uses of this drug that are not listed in the approved professional labeling for the drug but that may be prescribed by your health care professional. Use this drug for a condition that is listed in this section only if it has been so
Albendazole is an anthelmintic (an-thel-MIN-tik) or anti-worm medication. It prevents newly hatched insect larvae (worms) from growing or multiplying in your body. Albendazole is used to treat certain infections caused by worms such as pork tapeworm and dog tapeworm. Albendazole may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Albendazole should not be used during pregnancy, unless there is no alternate treatment. You may need to have a negative pregnancy test before starting this treatment. You should not use this medicine if you are allergic to albendazole, or to similar drugs such as mebendazole (Vermox).
Albendazole is a type of medication that is also called a broad spectrum vermifuge or anthelmintic. This means it can treat many types of infections with worms, such as pinworms, flatworms, some roundworms, and hookworms. Nausea and vomiting may occur as a side effect of albendazole. Albendazole can cause severe symptoms like a reduction in urination. Side effects of albendazole include stomach discomfort. Ibuprofen may interfere with other medications, such as
Descriptions. Albendazole is used to treat neurocysticercosis, an infection of the nervous system caused by pork tapeworms. This medicine is also used to treat cystic hydatid disease of the liver, lung, and peritoneum, an infection caused by dog tapeworms. Albendazole is used to treat infections caused by worms. Although these uses are not included in product labeling in the U.S., albendazole is used in certain patients with the following infections: 1  Capillariasis. 2  Cutaneous larva migrans. 3  Common roundworms (ascariasis). 4  Hookworms (ancylostomiasis and necatoriasis). 5  Pinworms (enterobiasis or oxyuriasis). 6  Strongyloidiasis.
Albendazole, marketed as Albenza among others, is medication used for the treatment of a variety of parasitic worm infestations. It is useful for giardiasis, trichuriasis, filariasis, neurocysticercosis, hydatid disease, pinworm disease, and ascariasis, among others. It is taken by mouth. Albendazole is a broad-spectrum antihelminthic agent of the benzimidazole type. Albendazole came into use in 1971. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, the most important medications needed in a basic health system.
Albendazole is an anthelmintic (an-thel-MIN-tik) or anti-worm medication. It prevents newly hatched insect larvae (worms) from growing or multiplying in your body. Albendazole is used to treat certain infections caused by worms such as pork tapeworm and dog tapeworm. You should not use this medication if you are allergic to albendazole, or to similar medications such as mebendazole (Vermox). Before using albendazole, tell your doctor if you are allergic to any drugs, or if you have liver disease or have ever had abnormal liver function tests.
In Africa, albendazole is being used to treat lymphatic filariasis as part of efforts to stop transmission of the disease. In sub-Saharan Africa, albendazole is used in conjunction with ivermectin, and elsewhere in the world, the medicine is used in combination with diethylcarbamazine. Albendazole is a broad-spectrum antihelminthic agent of the benzimidazole type. Albendazole came into use in 1971. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, the most important medications needed in a basic health system.