Anyone aged between 18 and 75 years and listed on the electoral roll within each jury district is eligible to receive a jury summons. Once you reach the age of 75 years old you are no longer eligible for jury duty. 
The Court of Appeal of the Supreme Court of Queensland has recently held that a mortgagee in possession is liable to pay the reasonable recovery costs incurred by the body corporate. There are still however a number of unresolved issues. 
They bring to the task a wealth of experience, common sense and insight.So serving on a jury is a public duty for any citizen of our society—one that you are only rarely asked to perform.This handbook will tell you what to expect from the moment you receive your summons until you give your verdict. 8 9 You can apply for a partial excusal, which means that you can be excused for a period of time during your service. For example, you may have to go interstate for business for a few days in the middle of
Jurors who are unemployed remain on $104.75 per day. Pay that you receive for doing jury duty is considered taxable income and must be declared. You will also receive a travel allowance of 30 cents for every kilometre you have to travel to the courthouse. Rates of pay are higher in NSW than any other state for jury service but with no requirement for employers to make up the difference, jurors can end up coming out disadvantaged, especially if they are employed on a casual basis.
Jurors are paid $40 a day, or $200 a week, for the first six days and $80 a day, or $400 a week, from day seven. Victorians who are in full-time, part-time and casual (over 12 months) employment will get their normal earnings with employers to make up the difference between jury duty payments and their wage. Nice. Queensland. Jurors receive $113 a day, or $565 a week, up to 19 days. From day four onwards, unemployed jurors get paid $20 a day. South Australia. South Australian jurors are paid $20 a day. If you can prove you’ve lost wages as a result of jury duty, you can claim up to an additional $128 a day, for a total of $148 a day, or $740 a week.
Juries listen to the evidence in court cases and decide whether or not the defendant is guilty or not guilty (or, in civil cases, who is at fault). A jury is usually made up of 12 men and women selected at random. The process for jury selection is as follows: Juries are an integral part of our legal system and are used in most criminal cases and some civil cases in both the Supreme and District Courts in Queensland. Jurors are ordinary citizens aged between 18 and 70 years who: 1  come from all walks of life. 2  may not have any legal knowledge.
In South Australia, jurors are paid $20 a day unless they can demonstrate lost wages. In Queensland, jurors receive a maximum of $150.75 per day for cases that go on over 20 days. Some states also provide a meal allowance for jurors who have to be at the courthouse for lunch. Rates of pay are higher in NSW than any other state for jury service but with no requirement for employers to make up the difference, jurors can end up coming out disadvantaged, especially if they are employed on a casual basis.
Some cases may take many days, or even weeks to complete; however, an average trial in the District Court lasts for 3-4 days while trials in the Supreme Court last for 5-7 days; you could be required to serve on a jury in either. You should go to the court each day in good time for the start of the day’s proceedings. 1  starts around 9am. 2  breaks for morning tea around 11.15am. 3  takes lunch between 1pm and 2.30pm. 4  finishes for the day at 5.00pm.
Supreme and District Court. Juries are an integral part of our legal system and are used in most criminal cases and some civil cases in both the Supreme and District Courts in Queensland. Jurors are ordinary citizens aged between 18 and 70 years who: 1  come from all walks of life. 2  may not have any legal knowledge.