In home care can cost anywhere from $1,500 a month to $4,500 each month; and dementia care can cost even more. Cost can also vary depending on room privacy. According to Genworth.com, a residential care home typically runs $2,200 a month for a shared bedroom and $3,400 a month for a private bedroom. Most residential care homes have private rooms available for their residents, as well, as shared rooms
With the number of people over the age of 85 expected to double from 1.4m to 3.5m over 25 years, there is clearly a growing demand for care home services. Meanwhile, the number of residents staying in independent-sector care homes is set to rise to 459,000 by 2019, according to the Laing & Buisson consultancy. Franchises such as Home Instead are at the forefront of a new wave of private providers.
Rent or buy a suitable property that has enough space for the facility you plan to open. In a residential board and care facility you can host between six and 15 residents in shared rooms, and a former family home may be ideal for this kind of business. A maximum of two people may share a single bedroom, so you will need at least a three-bedroom house or larger. 
Also called board and care homes, adult family homes, and residential care facilities for the elderly, this is a live-in housing and care option for people who do not have skilled medical needs, such as a feeding tube or daily injections. Generally, a residential care home provides the following: 1  A room, either private or shared. 2  Meals. 3  Varying levels of assistance with daily living activities, such as toileting, bathing, and even money and health care management. 4  Custodial care, such as laundry, housekeeping, and transportation to doctor appointments.
Costs of Residential Care. Residential care is very cost effective as well, on the average about half the cost of nursing home care. The cost of residential care for an elderly person can range from $1500 to $4,500 a month, depending on the care needs, the quality of the accommodations and the location of the facility. The average cost in a six bed home is $2500 a month for a shared bedroom and $3500 a month for a private bedroom. At that time homes for the elderly were known as Board and Care Homes and the name still persists as a common term to describe a licensed residential care home. In the vernacular of the State, these homes are also known as RCFE's (Residential Care Facilities for the Elderly).
Jupiterimages/Brand X Pictures/Getty Images. Starting a residential care home business can be highly rewarding and lucrative. According to Entrepreneur.com, 13 percent of the population (baby boomers) will be over the age of 65 by 2010. By 2030, the figure will jump to 19.6 percent.. The non-medical home care industry is booming and residential facilities are needed to accommodate seniors' daily living assistance and companionship. 
Residential Care Facilities for the Elderly (RCFEs) serve persons 60 years of age and older. This level of care and supervision is for people who are unable to live by themselves but who do not need 24 hour nursing care. 
Before starting a residential care facility you should be aware that there are a variety of residential care facilities, ranging from child foster care to taking care of the elderly to the mentally ill, to taking care of adults with various disabilities. When starting a residential care facility you can locate in your house or some other location. The area must have zoning laws which allow for a residential care facilities. You can also decide to care for a patient individually at their own home.
Cost: As with assisted living facilities, the cost of personal care homes (aka “care homes”) varies from location to location. On average the cost ranges between $1500 and $3000 per month for room and board. This often includes three meals a day, but each facility designates its own costs. In some areas, in some states, residential care homes are the last resort for finding placement for residents who don’t quite meet the criteria for nursing home placement, but may not have the funds for assisted living.