Dizziness. Dizziness has been reported by people with high blood pressure, depression, osteoporosis, multiple sclerosis, high blood cholesterol. (latest reports from 162,575 Dizziness patients). On Oct, 15, 2015: 22,771 people reported to have side effects when taking Claritin. Summary: Dizziness is found among people who take Claritin, especially for people who are female, 60+ old, have been taking the drug for. Personalized health information: on eHealthMe you can find out what patients like me (same gender, age) reported their drugs and conditions on FDA and social media since 1977
Claritin (loratadine) is an antihistamine medication that is used to treat allergy symptoms. Claritin is available as a generic drug, called loratadine. Claritin blocks the action of histamine, a substance in the body that initiates allergic symptoms like itching, sneezing, runny nose, and allergic skin rashes.
The symptoms include dizziness, nausea, and loss of hearing. Vertigo, another symptom, is a type of dizziness marked by the sensation that you’re moving, even though you aren’t. It can interfere with driving, working, and other activities. Medications and self-help techniques can lessen the severity of your vertigo. This condition doesn’t usually cause pain. Symptoms can include: 1  dizziness. 2  vertigo. 3  loss of balance. 4  nausea and vomiting. 5  tinnitus, which is characterized by a ringing or buzzing in your ear. 6  loss of hearing in the high-frequency range in one ear.
More questions for: Claritin, Dizziness. You may be interested at these reviews (Write a review): 1  Surprise after taking l-glutamine several hours after taking 300mg pregabalin. 2  Took a 300mg Pregabalin around about 18:00, then had dinner with a freind. Summary: Dizziness is found among people who take Claritin, especially for people who are female, 60+ old, have been taking the drug for. Personalized health information: on eHealthMe you can find out what patients like me (same gender, age) reported their drugs and conditions on FDA and social media since 1977
Symptoms can be relieved with medications, including: 1  prescription antihistamines, such as desloratadine (Clarinex). 2  over-the-counter antihistamines, such as fexofenadine (Allegra), diphenhydramine (Benadryl), or loratadine (Claritin). 3  medications that can reduce dizziness and nausea, such as meclozine (Antivert). This condition doesn’t usually cause pain. Symptoms can include: 1  dizziness. 2  vertigo. 3  loss of balance. 4  nausea and vomiting. 5  tinnitus, which is characterized by a ringing or buzzing in your ear. 6  loss of hearing in the high-frequency range in one ear.
Loratadine (Claritin) is indicated to treat allergies and hives and is not typically used to treat dizziness. It may be a good idea to follow up with your doctor to find out what to expect from loratadine and how long it will take to until your see some relief from your symptoms. 
Last reviewed on RxList 5/15/2015. Claritin D (loratadine and pseudoephedrine) is a combination antihistamine and decongestant used to treat allergies, nasal congestion, and sinus pressure. Claritin D is available over-the-counter and in generic versions. Claritin D is available in 12-hour and 24-hour dosing. Do not use if you are taking an MAOI or have taken an MAOI in the past 2 weeks. Claritin D should not be used by patients with severe high blood pressure (hypertension), glaucoma or severe coronary artery disease without physician supervision.