To make the sauce, heat the remaining 1 1/2 tablespoons of oil in a large saucepan over medium-high heat until very hot. Add the tomato puree and cook for 2 minutes, stirring frequently. Add the cup of reserved mole paste and the remaining 1 to 1 1/2 cups of chicken stock and stir to combine well. Cook for 3 to 4 minutes, until the mixture is a nice sauce consistency.
Instructions. Heat a 12 skillet over medium-high heat. Working in batches, add mulato, ancho, and pasilla chiles, and cook, turning once, until toasted, about 2 minutes. Transfer all chiles to a large bowl; pour over 5 cups boiling water and let sit until chiles are soft, about 30 minutes. Set seeds aside, and transfer chiles to a food processor; add 1 cup soaking liquid, and process until smooth. Set chile puree purée and remaining soaking liquid. Aside bring chicken and 8 cups water to a boil in a-4. qt saucepan over high, heat reduce heat to-medium, low and cook until, tender about 45. minutes
In a large saucepan over medium high meat add 2 tbsp olive oil. Add onion and a pinch of salt. Cook until soft, about 4 minutes. Add garlic and cook another 2 minutes, being careful not to burn garlic. In a blender with tortillas add onion, garlic, chiles, peanut butter, chicken stock, cumin and oregano. Season with salt and pepper. Return blended mix to large saucepan and simmer for 10 minutes on medium high. Reduce heat and add chocolate. Cover and simmer 10 minutes. Allow to cool and store in fridge for up to 1 week. Mole can be frozen for up to 3 three months. Mole sauce is a staple of Mexican cuisine.
Mole sauce is a rich, deep, pepper and spice based sauce often poured over chicken in Mexican cooking. Traditional mole sauce is made completely from scratch with homemade chicken stock and reconstituted dried peppers. The ingredients simmer for several hours and deepen in both color and flavor over time. 
[ˈmole] ; from Nahuatl mōlli, sauce) is the generic name for a number of sauces originally used in Mexican cuisine, as well as for dishes based on these sauces. Outside Mexico, it often refers specifically to mole poblano. 
1 1/4 cup brown sugar. 2  Place the chicken, onion, garlic and salt in a large pot, cover in water and boil until the chicken is cooked, about 30 minutes. 3  Remove the chicken, set it aside to cool and strain the water that it was cooked in. 4  Heat the oil in a pan over medium high heat. 1 Heat the oil in a pan over medium high heat. 2  Fry the chilies until they start to change colour, about 20-30 seconds and let drain on paper towels. 3  Bring the chilies and 2 cups of the reserved chicken water to a boil in a large sauce pan, reduce the heat and simmer until very soft, about 30-40 minutes.
Directions. 1  Heat oil in a large saucepan over med. 2  low heat. 3  Add onion, garlic, oregano, cumin and cinnamon. 4  Cover and cook until onion is almost tender, stirring occasionally, about 10 minutes. 5  Mix in chili powder and flour, stir for 3 minutes. 6  Gradually whisk in chicken broth. 7  Increase heat to med. high. 8  Boil until reduced, about 35 minutes, ... 1 Heat oil in a large saucepan over med. 2  low heat. 3  Add onion, garlic, oregano, cumin and cinnamon. 4  Cover and cook until onion is almost tender, stirring occasionally, about 10 minutes. 5  Mix in chili powder and flour, stir for 3 minutes. 6  Gradually whisk in chicken broth. 7  Increase heat to med. high
Puree to make a smooth paste. Add in the onions and garlic and puree again. Finally, add chiles to blender to puree into a smooth paste. Add the chicken broth to the pot and add the pureed ingredients. Make a roux, by mixing the masa with a 1/4 cup of the chicken broth. Mix the roux into the broth and whisk until mixture is smooth. Add the pureed ingredients and simmer for 1 hour, covered and then simmer uncovered until sauce has thickened. 
1 Heat the oil in a medium saucepan over medium heat, and cook the onion until tender. 2  Mix in cocoa powder, cumin, cilantro, and garlic. 3  Stir in the tomato soup and green chile peppers. 4  Bring to a boil, reduce heat to low, cover, and simmer 10 minutes. 5  Transfer to a gravy boat or pour directly over food to serve. Prep. Cook. Ready In. 1 