Roman /ro-man/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced roh-MAHN, ROH-mun. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Roman is citizen of Rome. Variant of Romanus; the name of several obscure saints and a pope. Rome was the center of the Roman Catholic faith. In the ancient world, Roman citizenship represented an ideal standard of rectitude and courage. 
AELIA f Ancient Roman. Feminine form of AELIUS. AELIANA f Ancient Roman. Feminine form of AELIANUS. AELIANUS m Ancient Roman. Roman cognomen which was a derivative of AELIUS. AELIUS m Ancient Roman. Roman family name which was possibly derived from the Greek word ‘ηλιος (helios) meaning sun ... Roman family name which was derived either from MARS, the name of the Roman god of War, or else from the Latin root mas, maris meaning male ...
Roman family name which was probably derived from Latin domitus meaning having been tamed. DRUSUS m Ancient Roman. Roman family name, also sometimes used as a praenomen, or given name, by the Claudius family ... Roman family name, which was itself derived from the Roman name MARIUS ... [more]. MARINUS m Ancient Roman, Dutch. From the Roman family name Marinus, which derives either from the name MARIUS or from the Latin word marinus of the sea.
Origin of the name Roman: Derived from the Latin Romanus (a Roman), which is from Roma, the name of the capital city of Italy. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
Feminine form of CLAUDIUS ... [more]. CLAUDIUS m Ancient Roman. From a Roman family name which was possibly derived from Latin claudus meaning lame, crippled ... [more]. CLOELIA f Ancient Roman. Feminine form of CLOELIUS ... [more]. CLOELIUS m Ancient Roman. Roman family name of unknown meaning. Roman family name which was derived either from MARS, the name of the Roman god of War, or else from the Latin root mas, maris meaning male ...
Spanish Meaning: The name Roman is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Roman is: From Rome. American Meaning: The name Roman is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Roman is: From Rome. The name Roman is a Russian baby name. In Russian the meaning of the name Roman is: A Roman. Biblical Meaning: The name Roman is a Biblical baby name. In Biblical the meaning of the name Roman is: Strong; powerful. Latin Meaning: The name Roman is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Roman is: Man of
Roman name which was possibly of unknown Etruscan origin, but could also be derived from the name of the god HERMES ... [more]. HILARIUS m Ancient Roman. Roman name which was derived from Latin hilaris meaning cheerful ... [more]. HORATIUS m Ancient Roman. Roman family name which was possibly derived from Latin hora hour, time, season, though the name may actually be of Etruscan origin ... Roman family name, which was itself derived from the Roman name MARIUS ... [more]. MARINUS m Ancient Roman, Dutch. From the Roman family name Marinus, which derives either from the name MARIUS or from the Latin word marinus of the sea.
Roman is a male first name. It has distant origins dating back to the Roman Empire and the Latin language. It comes from the Latin word romanus, which means of Rome. In this initial sense, the title Roman means a citizen of the Roman Empire, a man of Roman (or Byzantine) culture, Latin or Greek. Derived from the Latin Romanus (a Roman), which is from Roma, the name of the capital city of Italy. Rome is the name of the capital city of Italy, roman is the man of the rome.