Melothria scabra is a vine grown for its edible fruit. Fruit are about the size of grapes and taste like cucumbers with a tinge of sourness. Vernacular names include mouse melon, Mexican sour gherkin, cucamelon, Mexican miniature watermelon and Mexican sour cucumber. This plant is native to Mexico and Central America, where it is called sandiita (little watermelon). It is believed to have been a domesticated crop before western contact began.
They are the size of grapes, look like miniature watermelons and taste of cucumbers and lime. But the bizarre-looking ‘cucamelon’ is not some genetically-modified hybrid grown in a laboratory. It’s a central American delicacy that’s been eaten in Mexico for centuries. Exotic Mexican plant which tastes of cucumber and lime called cucamelon is launched in Britain for the first time. 1  Odd-looking fruit can be pickled, made into salsa or eaten on its own. 2  Seeds of cucamelon will be sold by a company in Devon.
We might have stumbled across the cutest fruit ever. It is a “ savory fruit ” known as the cucamelon. The little melon that could is the size of a grape but looks like a miniature watermelon. Even more mind-blowing, the cucamelon doesn’t taste what you would expect and actually has the flavors of a cucumber and a lime. The bizarre fruit is native to Mexico and Central America and not a genetically-modified hybrid that is grown in a cucamelon laboratory. 
An interesting cucurbit bearing grape-sized fruits with the flavor of a cucumber. Native to portions of Mexico, the fruit is also notable for looking much like a miniature watermelon. Fruits can be eaten fresh and have a sour aftertaste. Once found in cultivation, but has become uncommon in recent years. They are good added to salads or can be pickled. They have a cucumber-like taste with a touch of lemon. The ornamental vines have tiny leaves and flowers and are perfect for the cottage garden. Very unique and fun for kids. Huge yields.
It tastes like a cucumber soaked in lime juice. It has a tangy flavor that is refreshing. The cucamelons can be pickled, similar to a cucumber. When flavored with dill and mint in the pickling process it is really good. The fruit can be eaten right off the vine as well. You don’t have to peel the cucamelon like you would a cucumber. You can toss the cucamelons in a salad whole or sliced, similar to what you would do with a grape tomato. Tossing the cucamelons in a little olive oil and serving with sliced peppers is also a tasty treat. If you like a martini at night, use a cucamelon instead of an olive for your drink. 
Cucamelon: This odd-looking fruit looks like a tiny watermelon but tastes like a cucumber. Serving suggestion: The small fruits can be eaten on their own like an olive or other snack. Now British gardeners will be able to taste it for themselves after Suttons Seeds included the plant in their new range. Exotic Mexican plant which tastes of cucumber and lime called cucamelon is launched in Britain for the first time. 1  Odd-looking fruit can be pickled, made into salsa or eaten on its own. 2  Seeds of cucamelon will be sold by a company in Devon.
The Cucamelon: The cute, tiny and tangy fruit that looks like a mini watermelon is about to take off in the UK. Tasty and easy to grow, they are something a bit different to add to your normal allotment crop. Photo by Poppet with a Camera. Things Not So Great About Them. 1  They may be a bit sour for most UK palates. 2  They don’t like being planted in damp, wet conditions. 3  They are an exotic fruit, so (at the moment) cannot be bought everywhere. 4  Most seed packets do not seem to put on the growing instructions.
Detailed Description. Cucamelon is also known as the Mexican Sour Gherkin, mouse melon or Sandita (little watermelon in Spanish). These tiny, 1 x 1/2 in. light-green fruits with darker mottling look like watermelons for a doll house. The flesh is white, crisp, and crunchy with a slight lemony tartness. The flavor is closer to a cucumber than a melon.
They come from central America and they are a delicacy there. They taste like a lime and a cucumber combined. Cucamelons are also so tiny only about the size of your average grape or the end of your finger. Believe it or not they have also been popular since pre Columbian times. Things Not So Great About Them. 1  They may be a bit sour for most UK palates. 2  They don’t like being planted in damp, wet conditions. 3  They are an exotic fruit, so (at the moment) cannot be bought everywhere. 4  Most seed packets do not seem to put on the growing instructions.