Yucca is LIKELY SAFE when consumed in the amounts normally found in foods. Yucca is POSSIBLY SAFE when taken by mouth short-term. It can cause side effects such as stomach upset, bitter taste, nausea, and vomiting. Not enough is known about the safety of taking yucca by mouth long-term or applying it to the skin. Some people apply yucca directly to the skin for sores, skin diseases, bleeding, sprains, joint pain, baldness, and dandruff. In manufacturing, yucca extract is used as a foaming and flavoring agent in carbonated beverages. Many compounds from yucca have been used in the manufacture of new drugs.
Yuca root goes by many names. The yuca is often called cassava or manioc and is a woody shrub type plant. This plant is native to South America and can be found in many subtropical and tropical regions. Although the plant is not native to North America, it is grown in the Southwestern parts of the United States. 
For human use, the most important species is the spineless yucca (Yucca elephantipes). The leaves are up to 1 m (3.3 ft) long, while the chubby woody stem, with a fibrous structure, gray-brown colored, looks like the front feet of an elephant. 
The roots of yucca plants are loaded with nutrients. The tuberous roots of plants in the yucca family – more than 40 species strong – have long provided a carbohydrate-rich food source for indigenous peoples in arid areas of the Americas. The starchy root of the yucca is not only rich in carbohydrates but also contains a healthy mix of vitamins, minerals and plant-based nutrients. Researchers are finding that yucca root’s phytonutrients, including steroidal saponins and resveratrol, endow it with significant health benefit
Yucca is the common name for the more than 40 species of plants in the Yucca genus. The root of the non-flowering plant is used to make medicine. Yucca is used for osteoarthritis, high blood pressure, migraine headaches, inflammation of the intestine (colitis), high cholesterol, stomach disorders, diabetes, poor circulation, and liver and gallbladder disorders. Some people apply yucca directly to the skin for sores, skin diseases, bleeding, sprains, joint pain, baldness, and dandruff. In manufacturing, yucca extract is used as a foaming and flavoring agent in carbonated beverages. Many compounds from yucca have been used in the manufacture of new drugs.
Yucca. Yucca. A yucca in bloom is a showstopper. It produces imposing spires of large, bird-attracting white flowers in summer and fall. The evergreen rosettes of stiff, sharply pointed leaves, often variegated with cream or white, are striking. 
Full Definition of YUCCA. 1. : any of a genus (Yucca) of sometimes arborescent plants of the agave family that occur in warm regions chiefly of western North America and have long sword-shaped often stiff fibrous-margined leaves on a usually woody base and bear a large panicle of white blossoms. 2. : cassava. 
Yucca is a genus of perennial shrubs and trees in the family Asparagaceae, subfamily Agavoideae. Its 40-50 species are notable for their rosettes of evergreen, tough, sword-shaped leaves and large terminal panicles of white or whitish flowers. The natural distribution range of the genus Yucca (49 species and 24 subspecies) covers a vast area of North and Central America. From Baja California in the west, northwards into the southwestern United States, through the drier central states as far north as Alberta in Canada (Yucca glauca ssp. albertana).