Rich tea is a type of sweet biscuit; the ingredients generally include wheat flour, sugar, vegetable oil and malt extract. Originally called Tea Biscuits, they were developed in the 17th century in Yorkshire, England for the upper classes as a light snack between full-course meals. A Cadbury's variant of the Rich tea is coated in chocolate, similar to a digestive. They are also sold as a finger variety and, as Rich Tea Creams, a long thin rectangular version with vanilla cream sandwiched between two biscuits (made by Fox's).
Rich tea is a variety of sweet biscuit whose ingredients in general include wheat flour, vegetable oil, sugar and malt extract. Possibly the best-known maker in the United Kingdom is McVitie’s; though, all main supermarkets now do sell their own-brand of the same biscuits. These biscuits are as well sold as Rich Tea Creams and a finger variety with vanilla cream sandwiched between 2 biscuits. That there is room in this world for some dry plain biscuits that one can dunk in tea without getting all messy is proved by Rich tea. Being made from wheat flour, sugar, milk, shortening and a pinch of barley malt, the rich tea biscuit does impart a splendid flavor while consumed with a sip of tea or even coffee.
In 2004, Terry Wogan, a radio presenter for the BBC, described Rich tea as the Lord of all Biscuits on his Radio 2 breakfast show. McVitie's is the best-known manufacturer in the UK; however, all major supermarkets now sell an own-brand version of the biscuits. A Cadbury's variant of the Rich tea is coated in chocolate, similar to a digestive. They are also sold as a finger variety and, as Rich Tea Creams, a long thin rectangular version with vanilla cream sandwiched between two biscuits (made by Fox's).
The How-To: Preheat the oven to 190c. Add the caster sugar, flour, baking powder and butter into a large bowl and rub together with your fingers until you create a breadcrumb texture. Add the 1tbsp of milk and 0.5tsp of vanilla extract. Knead into a firm dough. Roll out to aprox 3-4mm thickness
1 recipe for Rich Tea Biscuits. 1/3 c. orange marmalade. Make rich biscuit dough, using 1/3 cup milk instead of 1/2 cup. Add orange marmalade to egg and milk mixture, then add to dry ingredients. Roll out and cut as for biscuits. Top each with a little marmalade; bake in hot 425 degree oven, about 15 minutes. Makes 16
Makes 22 to 24 biscuits. 1  280 grams white flour. 2  1 tablespoon baking powder. 3  3 heaping teaspoons cane sugar. 4  4 1/12 tablespoons cold unsalted butter. 5  2/3 cup cold, full-fat milk. 6  Preheat your oven to 410° F (210° C) and prepare a baking tray with parchment paper. 7  Combine the dry ingredients in a bowl, mix well. 8  Cut the butter into small cubes, ... 9  P 1 Place in the center rack of your oven and bake for 10 minutes, or until slightly golden but not browned. 2  Cool on a baking tray. 3  Optional: Boil fresh water, place tea in your favorite cup, pour hot water over it, and wait. 4  Break a Rich Tea biscuit in 2 and dunk. 5  Enjoy.
Preparation. 1. Preheat oven to 450~. In medium bow, mix flour, baking powder, and 1 teaspoon salt. With pastry blender or two knives, cut in shortening until mixture resembles coarse crumbs. With fork, stir in milk just until mixture forms a soft dough and leaves side of bowl. 2. On lightly floured surface with floured hands, knead dough 10 times.
As one of the pioneers in the biscuit world, the McVities Rich Tea biscuit is the standard British tea drinker’s biscuit, being especially suitable for the much loved dunking. Rich Tea Biscuits are quite light, sweet, crunchy and a much healthier than a lot of their biscuit contemporaries. That there is room in this world for some dry plain biscuits that one can dunk in tea without getting all messy is proved by Rich tea. Being made from wheat flour, sugar, milk, shortening and a pinch of barley malt, the rich tea biscuit does impart a splendid flavor while consumed with a sip of tea or even coffee.