Ischial tuberosity bursitis is located deep and below the buttocks. The Pyriformis muscle is located deep and in the middle of the buttocks. Either is a potential cause of your description of your pain. Unfortunately, I cannot tell from your description, nor can I do the required diagnostic tests to differentiate between the two.
Muscles of the gluteal and posterior femoral regions. Gluteus minimus and the origins and insertions of medius and maximus labeled. The gluteal muscles are a group of three muscles which make up the buttocks: the gluteus maximus, gluteus medius and gluteus minimus. The three muscles originate from the ilium and sacrum and insert on the femur. The gluteus maximus is the largest of the gluteal muscles and one of the strongest muscles in the human body. It inserts at the iliotibial band and the gluteal tuberosity of the femur. Its action is to extend and to laterally rotate the hip, and also to extend the trunk
SHARE SHARE TWEET EMAIL. The back of the thigh is made up of the gluteal muscles superiorly and the muscles of the hamstrings -- semitendinous, semimembranous and biceps femoris -- inferiorly. The junction between the buttocks and the thigh is called the gluteal fold or sulcus. In order to tone the area just below the buttocks, you have to exercise both the glutes and the hamstrings with compound or multi-muscle exercises. Engage your core muscles to stabilize your body. Step 2. Inhale as you sink your hips and buttocks back as if you were sitting down in a chair. Continue to lower your body toward the ground until your thighs are parallel to the floor. Keep your back in a straight line from your head to your tailbone.
The pain feels like its on the backside of my groin, just kind of below my butt. I don't think it is a muscle strain because I cannot stretch it, when just sitting down or walking it doesn't hurt but whenever I need to... show more Hi, for the past month or two I've had an on and off pain when I extend my leg. The Pyriformis muscle is located deep and in the middle of the buttocks. Either is a potential cause of your description of your pain. Unfortunately, I cannot tell from your description, nor can I do the required diagnostic tests to differentiate between the two.
Pain Where my Butt meets Back of thigh. This is really embarrassing but I'll suck it up and here goes. For the past year and a half, I've had this pain in the back of my LEFT leg... It is exactly where my butt cheek meets my back thigh (the crease under my butt i guess). It is constantly getting worse. I have this sharp pain over my butt that extends down the back of my right leg. It gets really bad when I have been driving for a while. I don't know what is causing it or what it is or what to do about it and I don't have enough health insurance to be able to seek medical attention for it.
Toning and firming exercises can take your butt to new heights. No buts about it – it’s possible to firm and tone the area right below your butt by performing exercises targeting gluteus maximus and hamstring muscles.
The pain feels like its on the backside of my groin, just kind of below my butt. I don't think it is a muscle strain because I cannot stretch it, when just sitting down or walking it doesn't hurt but whenever I need to extend my leg to kick a ball or run it begins to hurt. The Pyriformis muscle is located deep and in the middle of the buttocks. Either is a potential cause of your description of your pain. Unfortunately, I cannot tell from your description, nor can I do the required diagnostic tests to differentiate between the two.
Piriformis syndrome occurs when the piriformis muscle in the buttock tightens or goes into spasm putting pressure on the sciatic nerve. Symptoms include tenderness and pain in the buttock muscles usually on one side which radiates down into the back the the thigh. Symptoms include pain in either the left or right of the lower back which can vary from a dull ache to a sharp stabbing pain. The pain may radiate into the buttocks and low back and often into the groin.
Get help from a doctor now ›. Piriformis muscle: This could be piriformis muscle syndrome and you can stretch your gluteus muscle by pulling you flexed right knee to the left side of your body. The sacitic nerve is positioned right below the piriformis muscle which could explain the right sciatic symptoms you describe. Leg pain.: Shooting pain from buttocks to legs could be a result of sciatica. By definition, a sciatica nerve that is located between the buttock muscles is being irritated or pressurized to cause sciatic pain. This particular pain symptom occurred typically in obese person and athletes.