EMS stands for Electrical Muscle Stimulation. EMS is predominately used by doctors and to prevent, or reduce, muscle atrophy. Atrophy is the weakening and loss of muscle tone, which is usually experienced after surgeries or injuries. EMS will have pain management attributes in regards to muscle related pain, such as a spastic muscle, sore muscles, or tight muscles. A TENS device is more suited for nerve related pain conditions (acute and chronic conditions). While using the EMS, the brain sends a nerve impulse to the motor point of your muscle
EMS: Related Diseases. EMS: EMS is listed as a type of (or associated with) the following medical conditions in our database: 1  Pain conditions. 2  Conditions involving a pathogen. 3  Muscle conditions. 4  Drug-related condition
Related condition: toxic oil syndrome. Eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome (EMS) is a rare condition. It was first described in 1989 after three patients in New Mexico were found to have an illness with marked myalgia and eosinophilia. They had all taken preparations containing L-tryptophan (L-TRP). An epidemic illness then became evident in the USA. Myalgia, severe fatigue and rash are common presenting symptoms. Early features of EMS include: 1  Myalgia-which is necessary for diagnosis. 2  It starts proximally in the shoulders, back, gluteal region and thighs and becomes incapacitating. 3  Stiffness, aches and cramps occur on exercise. 4  Respiratory symptoms-include shortness of breath, non-productive cough and pleuritic chest pain
The Marc Pro is intended for muscle conditioning by stimulating muscle in order to improve or facilitate muscle performance. * The Marc Pro is not intended to be used for therapy or treatment of medical diseases or medical conditions. 
Eosinophilia–myalgia syndrome (EMS) is an incurable and sometimes fatal flu-like neurological condition linked to the ingestion of the dietary supplement L-tryptophan. The risk of developing EMS increases with larger doses of tryptophan and increasing age. Some research suggests that certain genetic polymorphisms may be related to the development of EMS. The presence of eosinophilia is a core feature of EMS, along with unusually severe myalgia (muscle pain). The first case of Eosinophilia–myalgia syndrome was reported to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in November 1989, although some cases had occurred as early as 2–3 years before this. In total, more than 1,500 cases of EMS were reported to the CDC, as well as at least 37 EMS-associated deaths.
EMS can be used as a training, therapeutic, and cosmetic tool. In medicine, EMS is used for rehabilitation purposes, for instance in physical therapy in the prevention of disuse muscle atrophy which can occur for example after musculoskeletal injuries, such as damage to bones, joints, muscles, ligaments and tendons. 
The electrical impulses are ramped so that they closely emulate natural muscle contractions. EMS is helpful in conditions where the reduction of physiological range of motion is due to or the result of fractures with consequent immobilization, operative intervention, or arthroscopy, in shoulders, knees, and backs. EMS units are used to treat a number of medical conditions that require muscle stimulation. This is being widely used in hospitals and sports clinics for the treatment of muscular injuries and for the re-education of paralyzed muscles, to prevent atrophy in affected muscles and improving muscle tone and blood circulation. What are benefits of EMS (Electronic Muscle Stimulation).