Monoclonal antibodies can block these receptors and prevent the growth signal from getting through. Cetuximab (Erbitux), a monoclonal antibody approved to treat colon cancer and head and neck cancers, attaches to receptors on cancer cells that accept a certain growth signal (epidermal growth factor). The cancer cells then ingest the antibody, which releases a few molecules of chemotherapy. The chemotherapy only damages the cancer cells, leaving the surrounding healthy cells undamaged. A number of monoclonal antibody drugs are available to treat various types of cancer.
The term 'naked' or 'unlabeled' is used when a therapeutic antibody is not a carrier of substances such as toxins or radiation. Sometimes naked or unlabeled antibodies are used because they attach themselves to specific antigens on cancer cells, marking the cancer cell for destruction by the immune system. Other naked or unlabeled therapeutic antibodies are used because they attach to certain sites, called receptors, on cancer cells where they signal cancer cells to die (apoptosis) or they can work by blocking other molecules that stimulate the cancer cells' growth from binding to the cancer cell.
About monoclonal antibodies. Monoclonal antibodies are a type of biological therapy. They can treat some types of cancer. Monoclonal means one type. So each monoclonal antibody (MAB) drug is a lot of copies of one specific type of antibody. Monoclonal antibodies work by recognising and finding specific proteins on cancer cells. Each monoclonal antibody recognises one particular protein.
Monoclonal antibodies to treat cancer. One way the immune system attacks foreign substances in the body is by making large numbers of antibodies. An antibody is a protein that sticks to a specific protein called an antigen. Antibodies circulate throughout the body until they find and attach to the antigen. Once attached, they can recruit other parts of the immune system to destroy the cells containing the antigen.
Monoclonal antibody therapy is a form of immunotherapy that uses monoclonal antibodies (mAb) to specifically bind to specific cells or proteins. This may then stimulate the patient's immune system to attack those cells. Initial therapeutic antibodies were murine analogues (suffix-omab). These antibodies have: a short half-life in vivo (due to immune complex formation), limited penetration into tumour sites and inadequately recruit host effector functions.
Therapeutic antibodies are laboratory-engineered substances that recognize and bind onto a protein on the surface of a cell. Each therapeutic antibody recognizes a different protein, or antigen, and in general can be used alone, in combination with chemotherapy or as a carrier of substances such as toxins or radiation. Other naked or unlabeled therapeutic antibodies are used because they attach to certain sites, called receptors, on cancer cells where they signal cancer cells to die (apoptosis) or they can work by blocking other molecules that stimulate the cancer cells' growth from binding to the cancer cell.
Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) joined to a chemotherapy drug or to a radioactive particle are called conjugated monoclonal antibodies. The mAb is used as a homing device to take one of these substances directly to the cancer cells. An antibody is a protein that sticks to a specific protein called an antigen. Antibodies circulate throughout the body until they find and attach to the antigen. Once attached, they can recruit other parts of the immune system to destroy the cells containing
This is a list of therapeutic, diagnostic and preventive monoclonal antibodies, antibodies which are clones of a single parent cell. 
Abstract. The use of monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) for cancer therapy has achieved considerable success in recent years. Antibody–drug conjugates are powerful new treatment options for lymphomas and solid tumours, and immunomodulatory antibodies have also recently achieved remarkable clinical success. This Review summarizes the steps that are necessary to transform monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) into reagents for human use, the success of antibodies in the treatment of cancer patients, the challenges in target and construct selection, and the crucial role of the immune system in antibody therapy.
The immune system attacks foreign invaders in your body, but it doesn't always recognize cancer cells as enemies. A monoclonal antibody can be directed to attach to certain parts of a cancer cell. In this way, the antibody marks the cancer cell and makes it easier for the immune system to find. The cancer cells then ingest the antibody, which releases a few molecules of chemotherapy. The chemotherapy only damages the cancer cells, leaving the surrounding healthy cells undamaged. A number of monoclonal antibody drugs are available to treat various types of cancer.