A documentary in two parts that covers the life and industry on the River Tees, with footage of Middlesbrough, Stockton, the Transporter Bridge, Furness Shipyards and aerial shots of the Tees from Stockton to the river mouth. Footage includes scenes filmed at Smiths Docks on the South Bank of the Tees at Middlesbrough. The ship Arvidsjaur is pictured in dry dock, goods are unloaded at Tees Wharf, a large Head Wrightson shipbuilding component is floated out onto the river at either Stockton or Thornaby.
In 1996, Cleveland was abolished, and Middlesbrough became a unitary authority, geographically within North Yorkshire. Erimus (We shall be), in Latin, was chosen as Middlesbrough's motto in 1830, to signify the town's will to grow. Being sheltered by both the Lake District and Pennines to the west, Middlesbrough is in one of the relatively drier parts of the country, receiving on average 574 millimetres (22.6 inches) of rain a year.
The River Tees in Northern England, Middlesbrough Port is located 4 nautical miles (NM) from The Tees Turning Circle which in turn is located 2NM from the Tees Fairway Buoy. This gives the port efficient sailing times to open sea. 
Here are some facts about the River Tees. 1  The River Tees in northern England has its source in the Pennine Hills on Cross Fell and flows into the North Sea near Middlesbrough. 2  It is 85 miles long. 3  One of Britain’s most famous long distance footpaths traverses Cross Fell. 1 One of the largest towns along the Tees is Middlesbrough, which owes its existence to the river. 2  The town is the birthplace of the explorer Captain Cook and has a large collection of Picasso paintings. 3  Teesport, near the mouth of the River Tees, was built on land reclaimed from the sea
The idea of a transporter bridge across the River Tees was first mooted in 1872 when Charles Smith, Manager of the Hartlepool Iron Works, submitted a scheme to Middlesbrough Corporation. The bridge is currently owned by Middlesbrough Council and Stockton-on-Tees Borough Council. Middlesbrough Council has control of the day-to-day operations and maintenance.
Middlesbrough (/ˈmɪdəlzbrə/ MID-əlz-brə) is a large industrial town situated on the south bank of the River Tees in North Yorkshire, England. Being sheltered by both the Lake District and Pennines to the west, Middlesbrough is in one of the relatively drier parts of the country, receiving on average 574 millimetres (22.6 inches) of rain a year.
Middlesbrough was governed by the County Council of the North Riding of Yorkshire until 1889, when it was created a county borough. In 1968 the borough was merged with a number of others to form the County Borough of Teesside, which was absorbed in 1974 by the county of Cleveland. Being sheltered by both the Lake District and Pennines to the west, Middlesbrough is in one of the relatively drier parts of the country, receiving on average 574 millimetres (22.6 inches) of rain a year.
1 The River Tees in northern England has its source in the Pennine Hills on Cross Fell and flows into the North Sea near Middlesbrough. 2  It is 85 miles long. 3  One of Britain’s most famous long distance footpaths traverses Cross Fell. 4  Walkers on the Pennine Way walk a few yards from the source of the river. 1 One of the largest towns along the Tees is Middlesbrough, which owes its existence to the river. 2  The town is the birthplace of the explorer Captain Cook and has a large collection of Picasso paintings. 3  Teesport, near the mouth of the River Tees, was built on land reclaimed from the sea
The Tees Transporter Bridge, often referred to as the Middlesbrough Transporter Bridge or affectionately referred to as 'The Tranny', is the furthest downstream bridge across the River Tees, England. It connects Middlesbrough, on the south bank, to Port Clarence, on the north bank. It is a transporter bridge, carrying a travelling 'car', or 'gondola', suspended from the bridge, across the river in 90 seconds. The gondola can carry 200 people, 9 cars, or 6 cars and one minibus. It carries the A178 Middlesbrough to Hartlepool road. Locally the bridge is often referred to simply as 'the Transporter'. The bridge is currently owned by Middlesbrough Council and Stockton-on-Tees Borough Council. Middlesbrough Council has control of the day-to-day operations and maintenance.