IF USING A GRILL: Heat a gas grill to high or heat coals in a charcoal grill until they glow bright orange and ash over. Brush the burgers with the oil. Grill the burgers until golden brown and slightly charred on the first side, about 3 minutes for beef and 5 minutes for turkey. Flip over the burgers. Cook beef burgers until golden brown and slightly charred on the second side, 4 minutes for medium rare (3 minutes if topping with cheese; see step 3) or until cooked to desired degree of doneness. Cook turkey burgers until cooked throughout, about 5 minutes on the second side. Add the cheese, if using, to the tops of the burgers during the last minute of cooking and top with a basting cover, close the grill cover, or tent the burgers with aluminum foil to melt the cheese. 
Wrap each onion ring with 3 strips of bacon and secure with your toothpicks. Yes, 3 strips of bacon. I smoked these for an hour at 225 degrees (107c). Pull them off the grill and turn it up to 350 degrees (174c) for the burgers. We put the burgers on for 6 minutes a side with a quarter turn at 3 minutes. Top with cheese and bacon ring. Then, fill the bacon ring with the mushrooms.
When ready to cook, start the Traeger grill on Smoke with the lid open until the fire is established (4 to 5 minutes). Set the temperature to 275 degrees F and preheat, lid closed, for 10 to 15 minutes. Put the corned beef brisket directly on the grill grate, fat side up, and cook for 2 hours. When ready to cook, start the Traeger grill on Smoke with the lid open until the fire is established (4 to 5 minutes). Set the temperature to 400 degrees F and preheat, lid closed, for 10 to 15 minutes. Arrange the potatoes directly on the grill grate and bake until tender, about 1 to 1-1/4 hours.
1 Preheat smoker to 225°F. 2  Place burgers directly on grate over indirect heat. 3  Smoke cook for 60-90 minutes applying hickory or other wood smoke the entire time. 4  The burgers are finished when they reach 160 °F in the center or your desired level of doneness. You can smoke the burger patties plain if you want to but I love to ramp up the flavor using my rub. Make burger patties about ½ inch thick and 4-5 inches in diameter. It is best to make them flat on top and bottom or slightly concave instead of fat. Lay the burger patties on a plate or flat surface.
Grill at 450-500°F (232-260°C). Depending on the thickness of the burger and your preference for doneness, you should grill it for about 5-11 minutes per side. Cut into the thickest part to check for doneness (red-rare; pink-medium rare; barely pink – medium; brown – medium well/well). 
When ready to cook, start the Traeger grill on Smoke with the lid open until the fire is established (4 to 5 minutes). Set the temperature to 425 degrees F and preheat, lid closed, for 10 to 15 minutes. Lay the tri-tip directly on the grill grate and cook for 45 to 50 minutes. When ready to cook, start the Traeger grill on Smoke with the lid open until the fire is established (4 to 5 minutes). Set the temperature to 400 degrees F and preheat, lid closed, for 10 to 15 minutes. Arrange the potatoes directly on the grill grate and bake until tender, about 1 to 1-1/4 hours.
When ready to cook, start the Traeger grill on Smoke with the lid open until the fire is established (4 to 5 minutes). Smoke the ribs, meat-side up, for 2 hours. Set the temperature to 225 degrees F. Continue to cook the ribs for 3 to 4 hours more, or until the meat is tender. When ready to cook, start the Traeger grill on Smoke with the lid open until the fire is established (4 to 5 minutes). Set the temperature to 400 degrees F and preheat, lid closed, for 10 to 15 minutes. Arrange the potatoes directly on the grill grate and bake until tender, about 1 to 1-1/4 hours.
When ready to cook, start the Traeger grill on Smoke with the lid open until the fire is established (4 to 5 minutes). Arrange the steaks on the grill grate and smoke for 30 minutes. Set the temperature to 450 degrees F (High), and preheat, lid closed, for 10 to 15 minutes. When ready to cook, start the Traeger grill on Smoke with the lid open until the fire is established (4 to 5 minutes). Set the temperature to 400 degrees F and preheat, lid closed, for 10 to 15 minutes. Arrange the potatoes directly on the grill grate and bake until tender, about 1 to 1-1/4 hours.
Save. Traeger pellet grills allow you the luxury of using wood fuel to cook in a convenient grill setting. The results are wood smoked food without the guesswork of cooking over an open fire, but with all of the conveniences of a grill, such as grease traps, drains and easy to clean grill racks. 
Left the burgers on about 10 minutes, turned them over, and let them cook 10-15 minutes. I have a simple thermometer that says if beef is rare, medium, or well done. Checked them and they were well done. I'm new to the pellet grill, Green Mountain Daniel Boone model. Decided to try some hamburgers tonight. Turned it on, and set the heat to the highest setting at 500 degrees. Took about 15 minutes to get there from the time I turned the switch on.