There are a variety of instruments used to measure wind direction, such as the windsock and wind vane. Both of these instruments work by moving to minimize air resistance. The way a weather vane is pointed by prevailing winds indicates the direction from which the wind is blowing. The larger opening of a windsock faces the direction that the wind is blowing from; its tail, with the smaller opening, points in the direction the wind is blowing.
The Current Wind map shows the current wind speed and direction for the most recent hour. Wind direction is determined by the direction from which it originates. For example, a northerly wind blows from the north to the south. Wind is the flow of air that occurs as it is heated by the sun and thus rises. Cool air then occupies the area from which the hot air has moved, creating what could loosely be termed a convection current.
Definition of WIND DIRECTION. : the direction from which the wind blows. ADVERTISEMENT. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged
Wind is described by its direction and speed. Wind direction is the direction from which the wind blows. It is usually expressed in terms of the point of compass. Air moving from east to west is called easterly wind. Wind speed is the speed of the air flow.
Wind direction tells where the wind is blowing from. For example, a north wind is coming from the north and is blowing towards the south. There are four components of wind that are measured: direction, speed, character (i.e. whether it's a gust or a squall) and shifts.
Wind direction is reported by the direction from which it originates. For example, a northerly wind blows from the north to the south. Wind direction is usually reported in cardinal directions or in azimuth degrees. For example, a wind coming from the south is given as 180 degrees; one from the east is 90 degrees. The way a weather vane is pointed by prevailing winds indicates the direction from which the wind is blowing. The larger opening of a windsock faces the direction that the wind is blowing from; its tail, with the smaller opening, points in the direction
WIND DIRECTION COMPASS Wind Direction is indicated in terms of degrees from true north (360°). Wind Direction indicates the compass direction from which the wind is blowing. In other words, if the wind direction is 180°, the wind is from the south (blowing towards the north); if the wind direction is 315°, the wind is from the Northwest (blowing towards the Southeast). COMPUWEATHER IS A MEMBER OF THE FLEETWEATHER GROUP OF COMPANIES. 
Wind direction is typically reported in degrees, and describes the direction from which the wind emanates. A direction of 0 degrees is due North on a compass, and 180 degrees is due South. A direction of 270 degrees would indicate a wind blowing in from the west. 