Established in 2006. We are a family business and have been creating specialty chocolates for over 10 years. Our chocolates and candy are handmade in small batches, using only the finest ingredients including Guittard chocolate.
Pour syrup into melted chocolate and stir with a rubber spatula until completely blended, about 30 generous folds of the spatula. Make sure the spatula and bowl are scraped clean of white chocolate. If any white chocolate has not made contact with corn syrup, you will have lumps in your finished modeling
Strawberry, Mint Rose, Brambleberry Rose and Mocha Rose contain similar ingredients to the Rosebud Salve with some variations and additions. Brambleberry incorporates beeswax for a less oily feeling. Skin nutrients shea butter and Vitamin E are added to Mocha Rose along with chocolate, vanilla and mocha flavors.
4 cavities per mold. Approximately 30 flat suckers or 15 3D suckers can be obtained from a pound of candy coating or chocolate. Hand wash only. *This type of plastic is perfect for chocolate and coatings, but is not designed for hard candy or other hot ingredients.
Oil Blend. Aromol (which is trademarked and is a trade secret) is Smith's Rosebud Salve's secret blend of essential oils that are not named individually as ingredients. This blend does, however, have oil derived from roses. Rose oil, extracted from the flower's petals, has long been a remedy for soothing irritated skin.
2. Dust your work surface and a rolling pin with powdered sugar or cocoa powder, and roll the chocolate plastic out into a very thin layer, less than 1/8” thick. If you are working with a large amount of chocolate plastic, you might want to divide it in half and roll it out in batches.
Chocolate Roses are gorgeous, delicious lifelike flowers made out of a modeling material called chocolate plastic. Use this chocolate plastic recipe to create the chocolate plastic for the roses. Don’t miss the tutorial with step-by-step illustrations showing how to make chocolate roses !