Although carbs should make up the majority of your calorie intake, limit bad carbs — such as refined grains and added sugars — as much as possible since they provide calories but few additional nutrients. Percent of Calories. According to the Institute of Medicine, children and adults should consume 45 to 65 percent of their calorie intake as carbohydrates, and at least 130 grams of carbs per day.
To maintain weight, the chart below shows you your daily calorie limit. It's based on your age, activity level, and the BMI (body-mass index) of 21.5 for women and 22.5 for men. To lose weight -- about 1 pound a week -- reduce total calories in the chart by 500 a day. To gain weight, add 500 calories per day for each pound you want to gain per week.
This means eating 180 grams of carbs daily for a 1,600-calorie weight-loss diet, and consuming 135 grams of carbohydrates per day for a 1,200-calorie weight-loss plan. These values are generally classified as low-carb but still fall within the Institute of Medicine recommendations. Becoming familiar with carbohydrate content in foods can help you limit your carb intake by controlling portion sizes. High-carb foods to limit or avoid include sugar, sweets, pastries, honey, molasses, syrups, ice cream and refined grains such as white bread.
1. Don’t Try to Limit Fat. “Eating high-fat foods keeps you from feeling deprived,” says Dr. Westman. Bacon, cheese, heavy cream, sour cream, cream cheese, mayonnaise, butter, and oil are all healthy parts of a low-carb diet. 2. Say Goodbye to Pasta, Bread, and Rice. To lose weight, most people have to stay under 20 grams of “net” carbs per day (net carbs refers to the number of grams of carbs minus grams of fiber, because fiber doesn’t send blood sugar spiking). But you can have up to four cups daily of leafy greens such as lettuce, spinach, and collard greens. Limit broccoli, cauliflower, green peppers, okra, and Brussels sprouts to two cups per day. 4. Say No to Hidden Sugars. Fruit, that legendarily healthful food, is packed with sugar, aka carbohydrates. So are fruit juices. Other concentrated sources include soda, cakes, and candy. You may be able to keep diet sodas, light beer, dry wine, and sugar-free sweets on the menu and still lose weight
Grams of Carbs. Determine the number of grams of carbs you need each day by calculating 45 to 65 percent of your total calorie intake, and dividing by 4. For example, if you eat a 2,000-calorie diet, shoot for 225 to 325 grams of carbs per day; and if you eat 2,500 calories a day, aim for 281 to 406 grams of carbs. Percent of Calories. According to the Institute of Medicine, children and adults should consume 45 to 65 percent of their calorie intake as carbohydrates, and at least 130 grams of carbs per day.
I have been keeping my carbs just under 150 grams per day, and calories at close to 2500 or less per day, since Jan 1st 2009 and I have lost 10lbs in the last 3 weeks, so you can lose weight, especially if you are as overweight as me, (6’5, 499 lbs). As I progress I will adjust it accordingly. Since the choice of how many and what types of carbs in one’s diet depends on the context of one’s life (current weight, disease condition, activity levels, etc), I see carb intake as a “curve” ranging from “allowable” to “desirable” to “unhealthy” .
To maintain a weight-loss diet long-term and reduce negative side effects associated with very low-carb diets, such as nausea, dizziness and fatigue, aim to consume about 45 percent of your reduced-calorie diet from carbs. Becoming familiar with carbohydrate content in foods can help you limit your carb intake by controlling portion sizes. High-carb foods to limit or avoid include sugar, sweets, pastries, honey, molasses, syrups, ice cream and refined grains such as white bread.
The Truth: You CAN eat carbs — the good ones! Yes, you read that right. You CAN eat carbs and still lose weight! I know that a lot of trendy diets (like Atkins and Paleo) have popped up over the years based on the principle that a high-protein/low-carbohydrate diet is the key to weight loss. 