The  treaty also prevented Germany from uniting with Austria. It made  Germany very poor.    Here are the terms of the Treaty of Versailles:   Germany was to accept the blame for starting the war, under the  terms of 'War guilt' cause.  Germany was to reduce its army to 100,000 men.
The terms of the Treaty of Versailles were announced in June 1919. The German politicians were not consulted about the terms of the Treaty. They were shown the draft terms in May 1919. They complained bitterly, but the Allies did not take any notice of their complaints. Germany had very little choice but to sign
The American people had not wanted to go into World War One-America did not join in until 1917 - and when the war ended they rejected the Treaty of Versailles and the League of Nations. This is called 'isolationism' - the desire to keep out of foreign affairs.
The Treaty of Versailles was one of the peace treaties at the end  of World War I. It ended the war between Germany and the Allied  Powers. It was signed on June 28, 1919, e … xactly five years after  the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand, one of the events  that triggered the start of the war.
Americans were also uneasy about Wilson's scheme for a League of Nations. They were concerned that belonging to the League would drag the USA into international disputes that were not their concern. In the end, the Congress rejected the Treaty of Versailles and the
Germany was to admit guilt for the war and pay unlimited reparations. The German military was reduced to a domestic police force and its territory was truncated to benefit the new nations of Eastern Europe. The territories of Alsace and Lorraine were restored to France.
The Treaty of Versailles was the peace settlement signed after World War One had ended in 1918 and in the shadow of the Russian Revolutionand other events in Russia.
World War I officially ended with the signing of the Treaty of Versailles on June 28, 1919. Negotiated among the Allied powers with little participation by Germany, its 15 parts and 440 articles reassigned German boundaries and assigned liability for reparations.