Summary. The centrifuge is an instrument used in nearly every research lab across the globe. Centrifugation is the process by which a centrifuge is used to separate components of a complex mixture. Repetitions of centrifuging, or spinning cells, followed by aspirating cells, and resuspending in buffer, is often referred to as, washing cells. Now that you’ve seen some basics of centrifugation, its time to have a look at some of the types of centrifuges out there and the procedures you can carry out with them.
References Source: http://www.ehow.com/how_5018706_convert-centrifuge-rpm-rcf-_g_force_.html Source: https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/Centrifuge. Centrifuge. A centrifuge is a machine designed to separate heavy material from light material. When the substance is a very fine solid in a solution, separating parts of the mixture can be more difficult than a solid. In our case, we will use a centrifuge to separate DNA from a liquid so we can focus just on the DNA. http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Tabletop_centrifuge.jpgA centrifuge works by spinning the substance at high speed. 
A laboratory tabletop centrifuge. The rotating unit, called the rotor, has fixed holes drilled at an angle (to the vertical), visible inside the smooth silver rim. Sample tubes are placed in these slots and the motor is spun. There are multiple types of centrifuge, which can be classified by intended use or by rotor design: Types by rotor design: 1  Fixed-angle centrifuges are designed to hold the sample containers at a constant angle relative to the central axis.
Simply put, DNA Extraction is the removal of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) from the cells or viruses in which it normally resides. 1 The DNA will be found at the interface between the two phases. 2  DNA is the precipitated by mixing with cold ethanol or isopropanol and then centrifuging. 3  The DNA is insoluble in the alcohol and will come out of solution, and the alcohol serves as a wash to remove the salt previously added.
Laboratory Centrifuges. A centrifuge is a laboratory device that is used for the separation of fluids, gas or liquid, based on density. Separation is achieved by spinning a vessel containing material at high speed; the centrifugal force pushes heavier materials to the outside of the vessel. 
Extraction of DNA is often an early step in many diagnostic processes used to detect bacteria and viruses in the environment as well as diagnosing disease and genetic disorders. 1 The DNA will be found at the interface between the two phases. 2  DNA is the precipitated by mixing with cold ethanol or isopropanol and then centrifuging. 3  The DNA is insoluble in the alcohol and will come out of solution, and the alcohol serves as a wash to remove the salt previously added.
Centrifugation is a process which involves the use of the centrifugal force for the sedimentation of heterogeneous mixtures with a centrifuge, used in industry and in laboratory settings. The particles' settling velocity in centrifugation is a function of their size and shape, centrifugal acceleration, the volume fraction of solids present, the density difference between the particle and the liquid, and the viscosity.
1 DNA is the precipitated by mixing with cold ethanol or isopropanol and then centrifuging. 2  The DNA is insoluble in the alcohol and will come out of solution, and the alcohol serves as a wash to remove the salt previously added. 1 The DNA will be found at the interface between the two phases. 2  DNA is the precipitated by mixing with cold ethanol or isopropanol and then centrifuging. 3
1 Wash the resultant DNA pellet with cold alcohol again and centrifuge for retrieval of the pellet. 2  After pouring the alcohol off the pellet and drying, the DNA can be re-suspended in a buffer such as Tris or TE. 1 The DNA will be found at the interface between the two phases. 2  DNA is the precipitated by mixing with cold ethanol or isopropanol and then centrifuging. 3  The DNA is insoluble in the alcohol and will come out of solution, and the alcohol serves as a wash to remove the salt previously added.
In a laboratory centrifuge that uses sample tubes, the radial acceleration causes denser particles to settle to the bottom of the tube, while low-density substances rise to the top. There are 3 types of centrifuge designed for different applications. There are multiple types of centrifuge, which can be classified by intended use or by rotor design: Types by rotor design: 1  Fixed-angle centrifuges are designed to hold the sample containers at a constant angle relative to the central axis.