gas·tru·la·tion. Transformation of the blastula or blastocyst into the gastrula; the development and invagination of the embryonic germ layers. In human embryos, gastrulation is the process by which the bilaminar embryonic disk is converted into a trilaminar embryonic disk. /gas·tru·la·tion/ (gas″troo-la´shun) the process by which a blastula becomes a gastrula or, in forms without a true blastula, the process by which three germ cell layers are acquired. In humans, the conversion of a bilaminar to a trilaminar embryonic disc (ectoderm, mesoderm, endoderm).
The process of the flat neural plate folding into the cylindrical neural tube is termed primary neurulation. As a result of the cellular shape changes, the neural plate forms the medial hinge point (MHP) . Prior to neurulation, during the migration of epiblastic endoderm cells towards the hypoblastic endoderm, the notochordal process opens into an arch termed the notochordal plate and attaches overlying neuroepithelium of the neural plate.
Gastrulation takes place after cleavage and the formation of the blastula. Gastrulation is followed by organogenesis, when individual organs develop within the newly formed germ layers. Each layer gives rise to specific tissues and organs in the developing embryo. The ectoderm gives rise to epidermis, and to the neural crest and other tissues that will later form the nervous system. Following gastrulation, cells in the body are either organized into sheets of connected cells (as in epithelia), or as a mesh of isolated cells, such as mesenchyme.
Neurulation. Neurulation is the formation of the vertebrate nervous system in embryos. The notochord induces the formation of the CNS by signaling the ectoderm above it to form the thick and flat neural plate. The neural plate then folds in on itself to form the neural tube, which will then later differentiate into the spinal cord and brain.
Gastrulation is a phase early in the embryonic development of most animals, during which the single-layered blastula is reorganized into a trilaminar (three-layered) structure known as the gastrula. These three germ layers are known as the ectoderm, mesoderm, and endoderm. Following gastrulation, cells in the body are either organized into sheets of connected cells (as in epithelia), or as a mesh of isolated cells, such as mesenchyme.
Medical Definition of NEURULA. : an early vertebrate embryo which follows the gastrula and in which nervous tissue begins to differentiate and the basic pattern of the vertebrate begins to emerge. — neu·ru·lar \-lər\ adjective.
/neu·ru·la·tion/ (noor″u-la´shun) formation in the early embryo of the neural plate, followed by its closure with development of the neural tube. 
Neurulation. the embryonic process in chordates and man by which the neural plate emerges and folds to form the neural tube. The embryo undergoing neurulation is said to be in the neurula stage. During neurulation the rudiments of all the organ systems can be discerned in three germ layers. The external germ layer, or ectoderm, thickens on the dorsal side of the embryo and forms the neural plate; the neural folds arise along the edges of the neural plate.
The neural plate folds in upon itself to form the neural tube, which will later differentiate into the spinal cord and the brain, eventually forming the central nervous system. Different portions of the neural tube form by two different processes, called primary and secondary neurulation, in different species. 1  In primary neurulation, the neural plate creases inward until the edges come in contact and fuse. Prior to neurulation, during the migration of epiblastic endoderm cells towards the hypoblastic endoderm, the notochordal process opens into an arch termed the notochordal plate and attaches overlying neuroepithelium of the neural plate.
Neurulation refers to the folding process in vertebrate embryos, which includes the transformation of the neural plate into the neural tube. The embryo at this stage is termed the neurula. Prior to neurulation, during the migration of epiblastic endoderm cells towards the hypoblastic endoderm, the notochordal process opens into an arch termed the notochordal plate and attaches overlying neuroepithelium of the neural plate.