Soap (called detergent by the industry that makes it) is used as a  cleaning agent. The term soap is a somewhat general term,  and it is interchanged with the term detergent … in lots of  cases. Anyway, the key is that soaps contain chemicals that attach  themselves to dirt, oils and greases so that they can be washed off  or out of materials with water. This coupled to the way things  in soap hook themselves to stuff in material, they allow that  stuff to be carried away by the water.    There is a whole industry that manufactures and markets soaps, and  there is a great deal more to learn about this common product.
Generally speaking, soaps are often  designed to work with water, and the things in soap mitigate the  effects of water's surface tension. This coupled to the way things  in soap hook themselves to stuff in material, they allow that  stuff to be carried away by the water.    There is a whole industry that manufactures and markets soaps, and  there is a great deal more to learn about this common product.
The lota disease is very contagious, so skin contact should be avoided. Prime carriers of lota are insects. Insects transfer the disease and open the skin to receive the bacterium. With the infestation of mosquitoes and other insects in hot climates, lota is apt to be widely transmitted. Other diseases that produce the same symptoms of lota are syphilis and tinea versicolor. Skin discoloration, itching and lesions are common dermal conditions that come with these diseases. The reason for the striking similarities lies in the root cause, the Treponema pallidum bacterium, which causes syphilis.
The same medication may be used for other skin fungus symptoms as well. You can also use selsun blue for skin fungus along with other remedies. However, the best skin fungus home remedy is to keep the skin clean and dry so that the fungus does not spread to other parts of the skin. 
As far as possible, you should use cleansing agents or soaps that use natural ingredients. These ingredients should take care of. Most of the modern soaps give a clean feeling by emphasizing the fragrance aspect. This, psychologically, help you feel fresh and therefore clean. Nothing could be farther from the truth. Many of the cosmetic soaps and other skin care products contain harmful chemicals that in fact clog the pores. This results in skin irritation, rash and allergies. The petrochemical compounds and the mineral oil base that these soaps contain aggravate these conditions.
The anus and buttocks may be either washed with liquids or wiped with toilet paper or other solid materials. In Muslim and Hindu cultures, water is usually used for anal cleansing using a jet, as with a bidet, or splashed and washed with the hand. A common hand technique is fill one hand with hot soapy water and wash the anus thoroughly until a desired comfort is achieved.
The brass or copper jug or lota is a part of the alter in every Indian home. When used at the alter, the brass or copper jug is used to store water or milk offered to the pantheon of gods and goddesses worshipped. It is believed that the metal that the lota is made from infuses the liquid contained with added vigor. The brass or copper jug or lota is very versatile in use. Back in the kitchen, it is also used as a measure. Many such lotas pop up out of various containers holding grain and lentils. The jugs come in various sizes and while the smaller variations are used at the alter, the larger ones are seen in the kitchen.
Having lota skin fungus, used sulphur for eating, bathing and drinking, taking nizoral tablets. Hi I have a skin fungus since I was seven years old. We call it lota. I have tried everything to get it to go but nothing seems to work. I have drunk sulphur, eaten sulphur and bathe with sulphur soap and nothing happened. When I was a teenager, I took a course of Tisane de Durbon and it left me completely but it was back withing three months. I usually take Nizoral tablets to control it and it works until it shows back up. Now it it really bad.
In the traditional Indian kitchen, the brass or copper jug or lota is used to preserve or hole liquids like butter milk, milk or water. In many homes the jug is also used for removing water from the traditional earthen water pot that stands in one corner of the kitchen. The brass or copper jug or lota is very versatile in use. Back in the kitchen, it is also used as a measure. Many such lotas pop up out of various containers holding grain and lentils. The jugs come in various sizes and while the smaller variations are used at the alter, the larger ones are seen in