To determine if you're a good fit for a BSN program, you'll first want to consider your background. There are generally three types of BSN students. 1  An aspiring RN who attends a four-year college or university. 2  An RN looking to get their bachelor's degree and enrolls in an RN-BSN program. Completing your schooling generally takes the following amount of time: 1  Bachelor's degree: Three to four years. 2  If you already have received certification as an RN, an RN-BSN can be completed in about two years.
A: If you want to become a registered nurse you will need to have proper education for that purpose. There are several ways of becoming a nurse like a bachelor's of science in nursing degree or master's of science in nursing degree. However these programs require more than one year of study. A: To become a RN nurse you can either take ADN (Associate Degree in Nursing) or you can take BSN (Bachelors of Science in Nursing) degree. Associate's degree in nursing takes two years to complete while a BSN is more comprehensive and therefore takes four years to complete.
Report Abuse. You need a BSN(4 year nursing degree) and at least 2 years nursing experience before you could apply to an NP Masters program.NP programs are VERY difficult to get into and 2 years may not be enough experience to get you in. Lori · 5 years ago. Thumbs up. 0.
Many BSN programs offer an accelerated program for people that already have a bachelor's degree in another field. It is a great way to become a RN for those wanting to change directions. I know 3-4 people who have gone into these accelerated RN programs-usually it is 16 straight months in an accelerated BSN program. There are lots of nursing schools that have programs to get a masters in nursing or a bsn after you have a different degree. The bio degree may help in you having certain credits, like biology, anatomy, statistics, algebra, psychology, etc. Look into bs to msn programs where you would like to go to school.
To get into nursing, a profession with high demand and good potential for job growth, you could start from scratch in an associate degree or nursing diploma program, or use the credits you already have from your bachelor’s degree for an accelerated degree. 
About a bachelor's degree in nursing. A bachelor of science in nursing (BSN) degree prepares you for a job as a registered nurse. While you can work as an RN with an associate's degree, nurses with a BSN are typically given more responsibility, supervisory roles and higher salaries. Completing your schooling generally takes the following amount of time: 1  Bachelor's degree: Three to four years. 2  If you already have received certification as an RN, an RN-BSN can be completed in about two years.
If you want to become an RN, you can look into Associate Degree (ADN) programs or schools that offer Bachelor's degrees in nursing (BSN). An ADN program will take you at least two years, and a BSN will require at least four years of school, depending on whether you attend full or part time. Both routes prepare you to take the NCLEX-RN upon graduation, which is the exam you must successfully pass in order to apply for a Registered Nurse license. You can still become a Registered Nurse down the road, by going back to school for your ADN or BSN degree, as there are hundreds of LPN-to-RN degree programs that allow you to do this.
Bachelor's Degree Programs. An aspiring RN can earn a bachelor's of science in nursing (BSN) in four years at a college or university. If you're already an RN, you can enroll in an RN-to-BSN program which is geared specifically for RNs who have an associate's degree or nursing diploma. This path usually takes about two to three years
If you already have a bachelors degree, you might want to think about taking your RN program through a community college. Although, you have a bachelors degree, you will still be required to complete the non-clinical course work particular to the RN program-if you have not already done so-to include the following. 
If you go the route of getting an ADN, then going for a BSN later, there may be some disadvantages. Many ADN programs have 2-3 year waiting lists before you could start. Then it's another 2-2.5 years to get your ADN. 