Gaya derives its name from the mythological demon Gayasur (which literally means Gaya the demon). According to Vayu Purana, Gaya was the name of a demon (Asura) whose body was pious after he performed rigid penance and secured blessings from Vishnu. 
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Jiya in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Jiya in Nautical Flags page. Jiya is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Jiy-a. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 2190 in baby name popularity for girls with 86 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Jiya Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Jiya has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Jiya to other names
Your obligation in life is to hold justice and truth, and if you follow the Law, you can find the great happiness and satisfaction. Click here to see the meaning of the Number 10/1 In Tarot. The Number 1 suggests a strong sense of independence, desire to excel and to lead. The Hidden Passion Number represents your hidden talent. It shapes your personality, and guides your life. There are also the Karmic Lessons Numbers, associated with your full name (first name, middle name and last name) as it spelled in your birth certificate.
Login or Register to Contribute. Gian-Carla Gia Coppola (1987-), director of short fashion films (a granddaughter of Francis Ford Coppola and niece to Sofia). Gia Pastorelli-American child actress. Gia first made a strong impression via Gia Carangi, the ill-fated supermodel whose biopic provided Angelina Jolie 's breakout role in 1998. It entered the Top 1000 in 2000, and has been rising ever since.
You are introspective, prophetic, philosophical, and soul searching, but also can be analytical, critical and opinionated. You think deeply and clearly, have an air of mystery, can be solitary and secretive.You are intuitive and might be interested in the arts, drama or science. You find the best contentment in life when you own your own home and provide well for your family and loved ones. The Hidden Passion Number represents your hidden talent. It shapes your personality, and guides your life. There are also the Karmic Lessons Numbers, associated with your full name (first name, middle name and last name) as it spelled in your birth certificate.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Rohan. There are three possible etymologies for the masculine personal name Rohan. For one, Rohan is the Sanskrit word for “ascending” but is also used to mean “healing, medicine”. On the other hand, Rohan is a literary place name creation by J.R.R. Tolkien in his Lord of the Rings trilogy. 
Name Jiya generally means Sweet heart, is of Indian origin, Name Jiya is a Feminine (or Girl) name. Person with name Jiya are mainly Hindu by religion. Name Jiya belongs to rashi Makar (Capricorn) with dominant planet Saturn (Shani) and Nakshatra (stars) Uthra Shaada, Purva Shada. Find qualities of Capricorn (Makar) or Find Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Jiya or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday or Find compatibility of Makar (Capricorn) with other zodiac signs.