It depends on the age of the child and any medical conditions they have, but the standard for foster children in Missouri is $258 a month for birth to age 5; $355 a month for … ages 6 to 12; and $372 a month for children 13 and older. In some states, foster parents are in fact paid a perdiem for each child. An average in Texas is $30 per day per child. This is meant to cover the child's expenses (other than medical) but it isn't reimbursed.
As of June 2014, foster parents in Maryland receive a daily rate of  27.45 per child for children aged 0 to 11, and 27.94 for children  aged 12 and older. The monthly rate i … s 835.00 and 850.00,  respectively. These rates are for regular care. In some states, foster parents are in fact paid a perdiem for each child. An average in Texas is $30 per day per child. This is meant to cover the child's expenses (other than medical) but it isn't reimbursed.
1. Foster parents receive a payment to cover some of the costs associated with caring for children from the foster care system. If the child is IV-e eligible, then the payment is comprised of state and federal funds. If the child is not IV-e eligible, then the payment is comprised of state and local funds. 
Share to: It depends on the age of the child and any medical conditions they have, but the standard for foster children in Missouri is $258 a month for birth to age 5; $355 a month for … ages 6 to 12; and $372 a month for children 13 and older. 8 people found this useful. Joe Ragusa. 304,324 Contributions.
Yes, foster parents receive a tax free, monthly reimbursement depending on the age of the child. The County issues a Medi-Cal card which allows for free medical and dental care, as well as some counseling services. A clothing grant is provided for children each year. 
These needs include providing adequate and appropriate clothing and feeding of the foster child. The basic foster care rates currently range from $657 to $820 per month, depending on the age of the child. For children who have special requirements, there is a specialized care increment, ranging from $79 up to $840 per month, determined by the child’s social worker. ​ It is difficult to say when you will get your first placement.
As a relative foster parent, Sears receives $343 a month in CalWORKs benefits to care for Isabella. But if Isabella were with a non-relative foster family, they’d get at least $657 a month from the foster care system. SACRAMENTO (CBS13) — Research has shown foster children do better in a home with relatives than strangers. But relative foster parents are often given a fraction of the funding to raise those kids, than a stranger foster care parent would receive.
Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. i was a foster child in Texas, and it depends on the child's level of care. i was a 6. 7 is really bad, 1 is really good. i can't remember which earns you More money, i think it is the higher levels, but you get between $700 and $300 per child per month. sorry i wasn't more help. Some people are so quick to rush to judgment. Contact your local human services, I'm sure they will put you in touch with the foster system, where they can answer that. I know it's different in every state, and varies on how old the child is, and weather or not he/she is a special needs child.
Report Abuse. We are foster parents and the average here is $19 a day. It all goes to the kids' care: diapers, babyfood, toys, clothes, gas to the doctor appointments and court, etc... We realize that we would do it even without money for it, but when taking a very ill child with many needs, it does play a part. I am a foster parent and where we live we get paid $25.00 a day reguardless of age, disability level, etc. Money was not a deciding factor for us because we are looking to adopt from the state. So, initially we were not concerned with the money.