There are many suggestions for the origin of the word flamenco as a musical term (summarized below) but no solid evidence for any of them. The word was not recorded as a musical and dance term until the late 18th century. In recent years flamenco has become popular all over the world and is taught in many non-Hispanic countries, especially in the United States and Japan. Professional Flamenco is an artform that can take a lifetime to master
Flamenco is a folk art and culture from Spain. It is particular to the province of Andalusia in Spain. Historically, it has always been the musical outlet of the poor and oppressed. It passed on by oral tradition which the individual artist uses as the basis for his own variations. 
JUANI GARCIA-Professional Flamenco Dancer. Welcome to ComeDanceFlamenco. Flamenco is the traditional music and dance of Andalusia in the south of Spain. The roots of flamenco came from different cultures and countries such as Morocco, Egypt, and India; but the first traces of flamenco in Spain date to 1760. 
In Japan there are more flamenco academies than there are in Spain. On November 16, 2010 UNESCO declared flamenco one of the Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity. In recent years flamenco has become popular all over the world and is taught in many non-Hispanic countries, especially in the United States and Japan. Professional Flamenco is an artform that can take a lifetime to master
Flamenco history has only been documented for the past two hundred years or so, and anything before this time is open to debate and speculation. Much of what we know from before this time comes from stories and legends that have been passed down through family dynasties, in a similar way to the flamenco song itself. One thing we can be sure of is that flamenco in its original form was only voice, a primitive cry or chant accompanied only by the rhythm which would be beaten out on the floor by a wooden staff or cane. These styles are known as Palo Secos, or dry styles, and they are the oldest forms of song known today.
By Vibiana / 2004. Founder/Artistic Director. The precise origins of flamenco are lost in the mist of antiquity, but most historians agree that the seeds of flamenco are of Northern Indian or Persian origin, and came to Spain through the transcontinental migrations of Gypsies. 
The name Flamenco did not come from the Gitanos, but Spanish writings about music art, show that, at the end of the 18th century, the Gitanos were also called Flamencos. 
Tweet. Flamenco's origins are a subject of much debate because it has only been documented for the past two hundred years, and the word Flamenco, which applies to the song, the dance and the guitar, did not come into use until the 18th century. 
Flamenco is a dance performed to specific flamenco music which comes from the Andalusia region of Spain. It's not easy to describe how to perform flamenco in writing-most pe … ople who try to imitate the style will stamp their feet, but they stamp them in totally the wrong way. The flamenco is a Spanish dance that originated with the Andalusian Gypsies in southern Spain. It's a dance that expresses the dancer's emotion when he/she stomps his or her f … eet.