Apollonia /apol-lo-nia/ [5 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced ah-poh-LONE-yah. It is of Greek origin. Latin feminine form of the Greek male name Apollonios, from Apollo. Mythology: Apollo was the Greek god of sunlight, music, and poetry. Saint Apollonia was an elderly third-century Christian martyr. In art she is often portrayed with a pair of tongs and an outsized molar.
Prince's song  Take Me with U  featured vocals by Kotero, and it reached #25 on the Billboard Top 40 chart in the U.S. Kotero left Prince's camp in 1985 to appear on the CBS primetime soap opera Falcon Crest, playing Apollonia, the girlfriend of the character played by Lorenzo Lamas, for ten consecutive weeks. She performed several solo songs, including Red Light Romeo, written and composed by Jon Lind. Apollonia 6 embarked on a worldwide tour to promote their hit single,  Sex Shooter . Kotero had originally recorded a version of the song  Manic Monday  for the 1984 album Apollonia 6. Written and composed by Prince, the song would later become a worldwide hit single for girl group The Bangles.
Apollonia Kotero (born Patricia Apollonia Kotero on August 2, 1959 in Santa Monica, California) is an actress, singer, former model and talent manager of Mexican heritage. She is perhaps best known for co-starring in Prince 's 1984 film Purple Rain and for having been the lead singer in the girl group Apollonia 6. Apollonia 6 embarked on a worldwide tour to promote their hit single,  Sex Shooter . Kotero had originally recorded a version of the song  Manic Monday  for the 1984 album Apollonia 6. Written and composed by Prince, the song would later become a worldwide hit single for girl group The Bangles.
St. Apollonia of Alexandria propelled her name into great popularity in the Middle Ages; her name is invoked against toothaches. Apolonia, one 'l', is the name of a character in John Steinbeck's novel, The Pearl. 
Here are pictures of people with the name Apollonia. Help us put a face to the name by uploading your pictures to BabyNames.com!
Nationality: United States. Executive summary: Former Prince prot g. One of several female performers that were stripped down to their underpants and handed a (usually short-lived) record career by Prince in the 1980s, Patricia Kotero initially pursued fame and fortune via work as both an actress and a model. Duly re-named Apollonia 6, the new trio wasted no time in landing a crossover hit in the form of the cheeky single Sex Shooter -- although largely as a result of the still-raging media circus centered around Purple Rain.
In 1988 she released her debut album as a singer and continued to star in other movies, such as Back to Back (1989) with Bill Paxton and Black Magic Woman (1991) with Mark Hamill. In the early 1990s she went off the market because of her marriage to actor Kevin Bernhardt (from General Hospital (1963)). Apollonia 6 went on a world wide tour to promote the blockbuster single Sex Shooter.. Apollonia had originally recorded a version of the song Manic Monday for the 1984 Apollonia 6 album. Written by _Prince (I)_, the song would later become a worldwide hit single for the girl group, The Bangles.
Apolonia is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 8 letters and 5 syllables and is pronounced A-po-lo-ni-a. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 14652 in baby name popularity for girls with 6 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. Last year this name was ranked as one of the top 1000 most popular names within its gender. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name.
After winning the Miss San Pedro beauty competition and a stint cheerleader for the Los Angeles Rams in the 1980's, Kotero began acting in roles both in film and television such as CHiPs (1977), Tales of the Gold Monkey (1982), Fantasy Island (1977), Matt Houston (1982) and _Knight Rider_. Apollonia 6 went on a world wide tour to promote the blockbuster single Sex Shooter.. Apollonia had originally recorded a version of the song Manic Monday for the 1984 Apollonia 6 album. Written by _Prince (I)_, the song would later become a worldwide hit single for the girl group, The Bangles.