Discover what a diversity of citizenship case is; that in a diversity of citizenship case the proper citizenship must exist both when the action is commenced at the state level and when the petition for removal is filed at the federal level. 
Diversity is not always just what background you come from but is any unique difference between human beings. Diversity includes physical appearance, religious belief, and race but your opinions and thoughts and the impact they make on society are also part of diversity. In society today, most people view diversity as a good thing because it gives people the chance to experience different things outside of what they are normally accustomed to. Diversity in America is openly viewed as a beneficial bacterium, so many backgrounds and not knowing which ones are good and which ones are bad.
Diversity index. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A diversity index is a quantitative measure that reflects how many different types (such as species) there are in a dataset, and simultaneously takes into account how evenly the basic entities (such as individuals) are distributed among those types. The value of a diversity index increases both when the number of types increases and when evenness increases. For a given number of types, the value of a diversity index is maximized when all types are equally abundant.
Our behaviors are based upon our attitudes. And as stated earlier, training diversity is about 75% attitude. Attempting to change only the other 25% will not work. That 75% attitude is just too great of a number. 
Team Diversity is the significant uniqueness of each individual on a team. This should not only include the usual diverse selections such as religion, sex, age, and race, but also additional unique personality characteristics such as introverts and extroverts, liberals and conservatives, etc. All of these differences can affect team interactions and performance. In order to best address the issues of diversity it is important that a team sets up a process to allow safe and open communication that can be done in a respectful manner. A team contract is an excellent way to set up the rules for such discussions, especially when dealing with sensitive issues related to diversity.
by Josh Greenberg. Workplace diversity refers to the variety of differences between people in an organization. That sounds simple, but diversity encompasses race, gender, ethnic group, age, personality, cognitive style, tenure, organizational function, education, background and more. 
Discrimination is treatment or consideration of, or making a distinction in favor of or against, a person or thing based on the group, class, or category to which that person or thing is perceived to belong to rather than on individual merit. Not all discrimination is based on prejudice, however. Some religious duties, for example, need to be performed exclusively by a minister professing the religion that commands those duties.
Diverse Citizenship of the Parties. Federal courts also have subject matter jurisdiction over cases in which the parties to the lawsuit are citizens of different states, either foreign or domestic, and there is at least $75,000 at stake in the lawsuit.
TOPICS COVERED: Managing diversity vs. managing equal opportunity (EO),misunderstandings based upon communications, stereotypes, assumption, lackof common experiences, responses to physical differences, and values andbeliefs. 
More by this author. Diversity can be defined as people coming together from different races, nationalities, religions and sexes to form a group, organization or community. A diverse organization is one that values the difference in people. In society today, most people view diversity as a good thing because it gives people the chance to experience different things outside of what they are normally accustomed to. Diversity in America is openly viewed as a beneficial bacterium, so many backgrounds and not knowing which ones are good and which ones are bad.