Pralines. Pecan praline candy made in Texas! The traditional southern pecan praline is a modification of a French recipe where almonds were used instead. This creamy candy is usually made with pecans, brown sugar, butter and cream. Pralines are a popular gift item as Texans love to share this regional treat with friends and family all over the world.
A praline is a candied dessert made from nuts, sugar, and milk. The nut used and the recipe depends on the region or country where you live. Pralines are very popular in the southern United States, especially in New Orleans, Louisiana and Savannah, Georgia. Despite this, they are enjoyed by people all over the world. 1 For chocolate pralines, add a 1/2 cup chocolate to the ingredients in the saucepan. 2  If you want peanut butter pralines, add a 1/3 peanut butter in the 30 seconds before your mixture is done boiling. 3  If you are allergic to nuts, add in 1 1/2 cups of puffed rice cereal instead of pecans.
Pralines are a confection that's made with pecans and look like a cookie. However, they’re not actually cookies. Pralines are a creamy-crumble candy patty that are made from butter, cream, sugar and of course Louisiana grown pecans. Pralines are made by combining sugar, butter and cream in a pot at medium-high heat. The chef constantly has to stir the mixture to prevent it from boiling over until most of the water has evaporated and it’s become a thick texture that’s brown in color.
Praline (US /ˈpreɪliːn/ ; UK /ˈprɑːliːn/) is a form of confectionery containing at a minimum nuts and sugar; cream is a common third ingredient. There are two main types: 1  French pralines, a firm combination of almonds and caramelized sugar. 2  American pralines, a softer, creamier combination of syrup and pecans, hazelnuts or almonds with milk or cream, resembling fudge. In mainland Europe, the word praline is often used to mean either this nut powder or the chocolate paste made from it, widely used to fill chocolates, hence its use (by synecdoche) in Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium and the United Kingdom to refer to filled chocolates in general.
Pralines are a classic candy from the American South. Typically, they're made from brown sugar and pecans, and they have a very distinctive texture: they're crunchy from the nuts, slightly crumbly, but also melt in your mouth as you eat them. Pralines are typically formed into small patties, and although they most often are made with pecans, they can also be made with other nuts, and have other flavors added, like orange zest, chocolate, or coffee.
Belgian pralines consist of a chocolate shell with a softer, sometimes liquid, filling, traditionally made of different combinations of hazelnut, almonds, sugar, syrup and often milk-based pastes. In mainland Europe, the word praline is often used to mean either this nut powder or the chocolate paste made from it, widely used to fill chocolates, hence its use (by synecdoche) in Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium and the United Kingdom to refer to filled chocolates in general.