No although they are both from the Asteraceae family--which includes many plant species-- they are different species of plant. Calendula is often called pot marigold because the flower resembles the marigold flower minus the musky scent. It is also a medicinal plant and a salve made from it's flowers is good for scrapes and burns. Marigold has no medicinal value, but it is very good at keeping some bugs out of other plants. It includes the popular Pot Marigold, Calendula officinalis. But 'marigold' is a word also applied to species of Tagetes and includes the well-known African Marigolds.
Calendula. The flower petals of the calendula plant (Calendula officinalis), or pot marigold, have been used for medicinal purposes since at least the 12th century. However, it is not the same as the annual marigold plant that is often grown in gardens. Calendula has high amounts of flavonoids, plant-based antioxidants that protect cells from being damaged by unstable molecules called free radicals. Calendula appears to fight inflammation, viruses, and bacteria.
Marigold or more commonly Calendula has been used medicinally for centuries. Traditionally, it has been used to treat conjunctivitis, blepharitis, eczema, gastritis, minor burns including sunburns, warts, and minor injuries such as sprains and wounds. It has also been used to treat cramps, coughs, and snake bites. 
Calendula (/kəˈlɛndjuːlə/), or pot marigold, is a genus of about 15–20 species of annual and perennial herbaceous plants in the daisy family Asteraceae. They are native to southwestern Asia, western Europe, Macaronesia, and the Mediterranean. The petals are edible and can be used fresh in salads or dried and used to color cheese or as a replacement for saffron. A yellow dye has been extracted from the flowers. Romans and Greeks used the golden calendula in many rituals and ceremonies, sometimes wearing crowns or garlands made
Best Answer: The trouble with a word like marigold is that it means different plants to different people. Calendula is a genus of plants in the Daisy Family. It includes the popular Pot Marigold, Calendula officinalis. But 'marigold' is a word also applied to species of Tagetes and includes the well-known African Marigolds.
Overview: Although Calendula is commonly called Pot Marigold, they are not in the same genus as the common marigold, Tagetes. (They are part of the same family, Asteraceae .) Pot marigold refers to its gold flowers that bloomed during the festivals celebrating the Virgin Mary and its use in cooking, or pots. 
CALENDULA/MARIGOLD (Calendula Officinalis – Compositae). Calendula oil is distilled from the petals of the pot marigold (Calendula Officinalis), a species of flower native to southern Europe, but which grows well further north in even the poorest of soils. 
Calendula officinalis (pot marigold, ruddles, common marigold, garden marigold, English marigold, or Scottish marigold) is a plant in the genus Calendula of the family Asteraceae. 
Overview. The flower petals of the calendula plant (Calendula officinalis), or pot marigold, have been used for medicinal purposes since at least the 12th century. However, it is not the same as the annual marigold plant that is often grown in gardens. Calendula has high amounts of flavonoids, plant-based antioxidants that protect cells from being damaged by unstable molecules called free radicals. Calendula appears to fight inflammation, viruses, and bacteria.