The Visceral Mass. The visceral mass includes all of the mollusk's organs. These organs include a three-chambered heart in most mollusks and three separate hearts in cephalopods. Unlike most mollusks, cephalopods have closed circulation system. All mollusks have highly developed tubes that perform their kidney functions.
A ll modern mollusks have the same fundamental body plan. There are three distinct body zones: a head-foot, a visceral mass and a mantle. Some common features are 1  : Unsegmented soft body with bilateral symmetry.
The Foot. A mollusk has a foot, the body's muscular section, responsible for movement. The foot of some mollusks has also adapted to attaching to rocks and grasping prey. To ease movement, mollusks such as snails and slugs release secretions from their feet, then slide along the mucus, forming a trail.
A MOLLUSK'S THREE MAIN BODY PARTS. Although at first glance there's a world of difference between a slug and a clam, or a clam and an octopus, these creatures are fundamentally alike in being composed of these three main body parts: 1  A foot, on the animal's bottom, consisting mainly of muscle tissue.
2)Body has more than two cell layers, tissues and organs. 3)Body without cavity. 4)Body possesses a through gut with mouth and anus. 5)Body monomeric and highly variable in form, may possess a dorsal or lateral shells of protein and calcareous spicules.
PHYLUM MOLLUSCA. The Phylum Mollusca is one of the three major invertebrate phyla which have successfully evolved on land as well as in the sea, its members are found all over the world-in lowlands, forests, deserts, lakes, rivers and oceans.
Many species have a calcareous shell. Molluscs are bilaterally symmetrical, although some have secondarily lost the symmetry in part; they have well-developed excretory, digestive, respiratory and circulatory systems. In all molluscs except the cephalopods, the circulatory system is open.
All molluscs are characterized by having three main body regions: a head-foot, which is the sensory and locomotor part of the body; a visceral mass, containing most of the organ systems; and a mantle, which covers the visceral mass and secretes the shell, if one is present.