Even more confusing, periods and commas always, always, always go inside quotation marks (unless doing so would confuse the reader, such as in a procedure when telling users what to type), but exclamation points, question marks, and semicolons go outside.
When multiple quotation marks are used for quotations within quotations, keep the quotation marks together (put periods and commas inside both; put semi-colons, colons, etc., outside both).
When it comes to commas and periods, though, logic doesn't enter into the equation, at least not in the United States. Universal American usage places commas and periods inside the quotation marks, regardless of logic.
While you can stand by the rule that most periods and commas go inside the quotation marks if you’re writing in American English, there are different rules for other types of punctuation. Question marks produce their own questions.
1 The comma and period always go inside the closing quotation mark when there is no parenthetical reference. 2  The comma and period always go inside a quotation within another quotation when there is no parenthetical reference. 3  The period goes outside of the quotation mark when using a
One issue that comes up when you use quotation marks is where to put other punctuation like periods, commas, and question marks. Should they go outside of the quotation marks or inside? The issue is complicated because there are two different accepted answers: one for American English and another for British English.
The standard rule in American punctuation is that periods go inside quotation marks, as do most commas, even if the punctuation is not part of the quote. American English is known for its exceptions to rules, and there is one type of incidence where it would not be the case that periods go inside quotation marks.
1 The comma and period always go inside a quotation within another quotation when there is no parenthetical reference. 2  The period goes outside of the quotation mark when using a
Comma/Period. 1  The comma and period always go inside the closing quotation mark when there is no parenthetical reference. 2  The comma and period always go inside a quotation within another quotation when there is no parenthetical reference. 3  The period goes outside of the quotation mark when using a