The pleural cavity is a potential space between the parietal and visceral pleura. It contains a small volume of serous fluid, which has two major functions. It lubricates the surfaces of the pleurae, allowing them to slide over each other. Visceral Pleura. The visceral pleura covers the outer surface of the lungs, and extends into the interlobar fissures. It is continuous with the parietal pleura at the hilum of each lung (this is where structures enter and leave the lung).
there are two types of pleura: visceral pleura covers the lungs, parietal pleura lines the inner surfaces of the walls of pleural cavity; parietal pleura is sensitive to pain but visceral pleura is not sensitive to pain. pleura, cervical parietal. 
The parietal pleura is a membrane that lines the cavity in the chest that contains the lungs. Another membrane, called the visceral pleura, closely covers the lung surfaces. The narrow gap between the parietal and the visceral pleura is known as the pleural cavity or space. Within this space, pleural fluid forms a thin layer on the pleural membranes, preventing friction between the surfaces. Parietal pleura refers to a membrane that lines the chest cavity that contains the lungs. Traumatic injuries, such as a stab wound, may cause air in the pleural space, leading to an open pneumothorax. Pneumonia may cause the pleural space to become inflamed, which may lead to a condition known as pleurisy.
Within the thoracic cavity, this is known as the pleura. The visceral pleura which coats the outer surface of the lung is derived from the splanchnic mesoderm. The parietal pleura lining the thoracic cavity is derived from somatic mesoderm. The pleural cavity is a potential space between the two areas of pleural membrane, which normally are adhesed to each other. 
The two lungs and their pleural sacs are situated in the thoracic cavity (figs. 22-1 and 22-2). The pleura is a thin, glistening, slippery serous membrane, inflammation of which is called pleurisy. The pleura lines the thoracic wall and diaphragm, where it is known as the parietal pleura. It is reflected onto the lung, where it is called the visceral pleura. The visceral pleura covers the lung and dips into its fissures.
The parietal pleura is the outer membrane that attaches to and lines the inner surface of the thoracic cavity, covers the upper surface of the diaphragm and is reflected over structures within the middle of the thorax. It separates the pleural cavity from the mediastinum. The visceral pleura is a delicate serous membrane that closely covers the surfaces of the lungs and dips into the fissures that separate the lobes.
The parietal pleura, which lines the thoracic cavity, is an example of a serous membrane and the type of serous fluid it produces is known as pleural fluid. This helps the surfaces of the parietal and visceral pleurae to glide over one another when the lungs expand and relax during respiration. Parietal pleura refers to a membrane that lines the chest cavity that contains the lungs. Traumatic injuries, such as a stab wound, may cause air in the pleural space, leading to an open pneumothorax. Pneumonia may cause the pleural space to become inflamed, which may lead to a condition known as pleurisy.
The outer pleural layer is known as the parietal pleura and lines the inside of the chest cavity around the lung. The inner pleural layer is attached to the lungs and is known as the visceral pleura. The pleural cavity is the space between the two pleural layers and it contains approximately 10 to 20ml of thin serous fluid known as the pleural fluid.
Notes. pleura. serous membrane lining the pleural cavity. there are two types of pleura: visceral pleura covers the lungs, parietal pleura lines the inner surfaces of the walls of pleural cavity; parietal pleura is sensitive to pain but visceral pleura is not sensitive to pain. pleura, cervical parietal.