Discounts: 1  Patients may require additional treatments to maintain results. 2  A small number of patients experience complications such as scarring or dimpling of the skin, and a tiny percentage have loss of facial fat, which some choose to correct with cosmetic injections that can cost $500 to $1,000 per shot. 1 Although it has been compared to a surgical facelift, which can cost two to three times the price, the effects of Thermage are subtler, and patients with very loose skin might see almost no improvement. 2  If a dramatic effect is desired, surgery might be necessary.
The cost of thermage is variable and depends on the treated area but can range from one thousand to several thousand dollars. Photos Courtesy of Julio Barba, M.D.,Kim Schuchardt, P.A. (Richard Neils, M.D.), Mark Nestor, M.D. and Robert Weiss, M.D. RELATED ARTICLES. Thermage Cost. Thermage can cost from $900 - $4000, depending on area and degree of work. The old (original) protocol of one or possibly two treatments was very painful. Newer protocols entail more treatments over time with less discomfort.
1 For Thermage, which requires only one treatment, Lakeview Dermatology in Chicago, charges about $1,300 for the eyes, $2,000 for the face and $3,000 to $4,000 for the tummy or buttocks. 1 For Fraxel re:pair, which uses a different laser technology and only requires one treatment, the center charges $4,900 for the face or $6,500 for the face and neck. 2  Skin tightening is considered a cosmetic procedure, so it typically is not covered by health insurance.
1 Skin tightening treatments using radiofrequency (RF), infrared light (IR) or a combination-- for example, Thermage, ReFirme and Titan -- typically cost $1,000 to $4,000 for one to five treatments. 1 For Fraxel re:pair, which uses a different laser technology and only requires one treatment, the center charges $4,900 for the face or $6,500 for the face and neck. 2  Skin tightening is considered a cosmetic procedure, so it typically is not covered by health insurance.
1 The Dermatology and Laser Center, also in California, charges $1,200-$2,400 for three to six Fraxel re:store treatments on body parts that take a short time to treat (eyes, mouth, V of the chest, hands and elbows); and $3,000 to $5,000 for body parts requiring more time (face, arms, chest, shins or shoulders). 1 For Fraxel re:pair, which uses a different laser technology and only requires one treatment, the center charges $4,900 for the face or $6,500 for the face and neck. 2  Skin tightening is considered a cosmetic procedure, so it typically is not covered by health insurance.
Related articles: Botox Treatments, Microdermabrasion, Skin Peel. 1  Thermage, a patented procedure that has been described as a non-surgical facelift, usually costs between $1,000 and $5,000 per treatment, with an average of $2,000, according to A Board Certified Plastic Surgeon Resource. 1 Although it has been compared to a surgical facelift, which can cost two to three times the price, the effects of Thermage are subtler, and patients with very loose skin might see almost no improvement. 2  If a dramatic effect is desired, surgery might be necessary.
1 Often, only one treatment is required, but some patients will need more. 2  Since Thermage is still fairly new-it was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in 2002 - it is difficult to know how long results typically will last, but predictions range from two to 10 years. 1 Although it has been compared to a surgical facelift, which can cost two to three times the price, the effects of Thermage are subtler, and patients with very loose skin might see almost no improvement. 2  If a dramatic effect is desired, surgery might be necessary.
Thermage is a non-invasive skin rejuvenation procedure that uses pulses of radio waves to tighten and re-contour loose, wrinkled skin. It’s most often used to treat the face and neck (including sagging “turkey neck” skin under the chin), but it can also help tighten skin on the abdomen, thighs, arms, and hands. You’ll notice that your skin is tighter right after the procedure, but most results will emerge gradually, over several weeks, as new collagen forms. Generic pricing information is almost always inaccurate and can range from $100-$2000.
Thermage Cost. The cost of a Thermage treatment may range between $2,500 and $9,000 depending on where you live and other factors. This is merely a guide and may not accurately reflect the price for your treatment. Talk to your doctor to discuss your options
1 Thermage, a patented procedure that has been described as a non-surgical facelift, usually costs between $1,000 and $5,000 per treatment, with an average of $2,000, according to A Board Certified Plastic Surgeon Resource. 2  Often, only one treatment is required, but some patients will need more. 1 Although it has been compared to a surgical facelift, which can cost two to three times the price, the effects of Thermage are subtler, and patients with very loose skin might see almost no improvement. 2  If a dramatic effect is desired, surgery might be necessary.