Breathing is an active process-requiring the contraction of skeletal muscles. The primary muscles of respiration include the external intercostal muscles (located between the ribs) and the diaphragm (a sheet of muscle located between the thoracic & abdominal cavities).
Breathing is a physical process consisting of inhalation, exhalation, and relaxation. Inhalation is an active process while exhalation is passive. Breathing involves two stages known as ventilation and gas exchange. Ventilation is the movement of the air in and out of the lungs.
Exhalation-Carbon dioxide is pushed out of your body through the nose or mouth when your diaphragm contracts. At the site of the alveoli, the oxygen goes into the oxygen poor blood that is coming from all over the body. The carbon dioxide is then forced out and breathed out. + 55 others found this useful.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. O Inhalation is a process that relies on contraction of muscles while exhalation is a process that is USUALLY-not always-passive because it relies on the relaxation of muscles. However, when you speak, sing, or blow out a candle the muscles between the ribs and abs contract, making it active.
An active process if that is carried out on the expense of energy and the passive processes is that occurs spontaneously in nature. for example consider two solutions separate … d by a membrane, one side you have high concentration of glucose than other.
• Inhalation is an active process, whereas exhalation is a passive process. • Exhalation occurs followed by the inhalation. • The diaphragm and intercoastal muscle contract during the inhalation, while they relax during the exhalation.
Inhalation is an active process of which a person takes air into the body through the mouth and nose and pushes the air into the lungs. Inhalation is controlled by the brain. During the process of inhalation, the diaphragm and intercostal muscle contractions cause to enlarge the thoracic cavity. This creates a slight vacuum condition due to decreasing air pressure in lungs. Due to the pressure gradient between the atmosphere and thoracic cavity, air moves into lungs via trachea.