Plaque psoriasis is a chronic autoimmune condition that appears on the skin in patches of thick, red, scaly skin. It can affect anyone and is not contagious. Plaque psoriasis can be a very itchy and sometimes painful condition. It also can be embarrassing and does not always respond to treatment. Plaque psoriasis typically involves patches of rough, red skin and silvery-white scales. This is because the skin cells receive a signal to produce new skin cells too quickly. They build up and shed in scales and patches.
Guttate Psoriasis. Psoriasis that has small, salmon-pink colored drops on the skin is guttate psoriasis, affecting about 10% of people with psoriasis. There is usually a fine silver-white buildup (scale) on the drop-like lesion that is finer than the scale in plaque psoriasis. However it can also appear as small flat bumps, large thick plaques of raised skin, pink and mildly dry skin, or big flakes of dry skin that flake off. It most commonly affects the skin on the elbows, knees, and scalp, though it can appear anywhere on the body.
Some common signs for plaque psoriasis-the most common variety of the condition-include: 1  Plaques of red, inflamed skin, often covered with loose, silver-coloured scales. 2  These plaques may be itchy and painful and sometimes crack and bleed. Some common signs for plaque psoriasis-the most common variety of the condition-include: 1  Plaques of red, inflamed skin, often covered with loose, silver-coloured scales. 2  Disorders of the fingernails and toenails, including discolouration and pitting of the nails. 3  Plaques or crust on the scalp. 4  Small areas of bleeding where the involved skin is ...
The most common form of the disease is plaque psoriasis. It looks like areas of thick, swollen, red patches with well-defined edges. On top of these areas are the silvery-white scales. It's easy to knock them off and cause bleeding, so be gentle with yourself when you comb your hair, shampoo, or put on and take of hats. 
Different types of psoriasis cause different symptoms, The most common type, plaque psoriasis, causes thick red plaques covered with silvery scales. Psoriasis image © Interactive Medical Media, LLC. The most common areas affected are the scalp, elbows, knees, and lower back, although any skin surface may be involved. Some common signs for plaque psoriasis-the most common variety of the condition-include: 1  Plaques of red, inflamed skin, often covered with loose, silver-coloured scales. 2  Disorders of the fingernails and toenails, including discolouration and pitting of the nails. 3  Plaques or crust on the scalp. 4  Small areas of bleeding where the involved skin is ...
Psoriasis is an autoimmune disorder where rapid skin cell reproduction results in raised, red, dry, and scaly patches of skin. It is not contagious. It most commonly affects the skin on the elbows, knees, and scalp, though it can appear anywhere on the body. However it can also appear as small flat bumps, large thick plaques of raised skin, pink and mildly dry skin, or big flakes of dry skin that flake off
Psoriasis: Too Many Skin Cells. In psoriasis, new cells build up in the top layer of your skin. They grow faster than your body can remove, or shed, them. Blood vessels below become swollen. This causes thick, red patches, or plaques. What they look and feel like depends on what type of psoriasis you have. Doctors aren't sure what causes it
The thick patch of white scales is characteristic of psoriasis. Psoriasis is a chronic autoimmune condition that results in the overproduction of skin cells. The dead cells build up into silvery-white scales. The skin becomes inflamed and red, causing serious itching. Psoriasis on the hands may also include nail psoriasis, a condition in which the overactive skin cells produce too many new cells under the nails. This can look like a fungal infection that discolors the nails and even causes them to fall off.
Previous Next 1 of 8 Types of psoriasis Psoriasis occurs when the life cycle of skin cells speeds up, resulting in a rapid buildup of rough, dead skin cells. These skin cells accumulate, forming thick silvery scales and dry, red patches that are sometimes itchy or painful. In some cases, pus-filled blisters appear.