A lot of people have been commenting about cipro being taken off the market. Cipro is one of the only broad spectrum antibiotics I can take. It gives me side effects but overall it does its job, and relatively quickly. Email. 1. UTI/kidney infection. I was told to take the cipro for 7 days, but after 4 days I sprained my ankle simply walking at home (no actual twisting occurred, I simply began to feel intense pain as if I had sprained it) and discontinued use.
Common side effects of Cipro include diarrhea, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, stomach upset, abdominal pain, nausea/vomiting, blurred vision, nervousness, anxiety, agitation, sleep problems (insomnia or nightmares), and rash. Cipro is available as a generic drug and is prescribed to treat infections of the skin, lungs, airways, bones, joints, and urinary tract infections caused by susceptible bacteria.
This risk may increase if you use certain drugs (such as diuretics/water pills) or if you have conditions such as severe sweating, diarrhea, or vomiting. Talk to your doctor about using ciprofloxacin safely. This medication may rarely cause serious changes in blood sugar levels, especially if you have diabetes. Watch for symptoms of high blood sugar including increased thirst and urination. Ciprofloxacin may increase the blood sugar-lowering effects of the medication glyburide. Also watch for symptoms of low blood sugar such as sudden sweating, shaking, fast heartbeat, hunger, blurred vision, dizziness, or tingling hands/feet. 
Summary: Exhaustion, fatigue, lethargy, tiredness, weariness is found among people who take Cipro, especially for people who are 60+ old, have been taking the drug for. On Sep, 25, 2015: 5,477 people reported to have side effects when taking Cipro. Among them, 497 people (9.07%) have Exhaustion, Fatigue, Lethargy, Tiredness, Weariness.
Summary: Fatigue is found among people who take Cipro, especially for people who are 60+ old, have been taking the drug for. Personalized health information: on eHealthMe you can find out what patients like me (same gender, age) reported their drugs and conditions on FDA and social media since 1977. More questions for: Cipro, Fatigue. You may be interested at these reviews (Write a review): 1  Arimidex and its side effects. 2  Been taking this for breast cancer now for 3 months. 3  It's awful I am 48 and feel as if I am 100. 4  Need help with client. 5  Hi my name is Cece, and I need help with my client RITA
More questions for: Cipro, Exhaustion, fatigue, lethargy, tiredness, weariness. You may be interested at these reviews (Write a review): 1  Arimidex and its side effects. 2  Been taking this for breast cancer now for 3 months. On Sep, 25, 2015: 5,477 people reported to have side effects when taking Cipro. Among them, 497 people (9.07%) have Exhaustion, Fatigue, Lethargy, Tiredness, Weariness.
It has almost been four years since the 7 day course of ciprofloxacin and now diagnosed with peripheral neuropathy, fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue, hyperacusis, tinnitus, adrenal fatigue, chronic pain. Lost my job after working for same company for 20 years, extreme panic attacks and anxiety. Email. 1. UTI/kidney infection. I was told to take the cipro for 7 days, but after 4 days I sprained my ankle simply walking at home (no actual twisting occurred, I simply began to feel intense pain as if I had sprained it) and discontinued use.
Fatigue. Fatigue (feeling of tiredness) has been reported by people with multiple sclerosis, high blood pressure, depression, rheumatoid arthritis, osteoporosis. (latest reports from 201,270 Fatigue patients). On Sep, 13, 2015: 5,477 people reported to have side effects when taking Cipro. More questions for: Cipro, Fatigue. You may be interested at these reviews (Write a review): 1  Arimidex and its side effects. 2  Been taking this for breast cancer now for 3 months. 3  It's awful I am 48 and feel as if I am 100. 4  Need help with client. 5  Hi my name is Cece, and I need help with my client RITA
cipro. Off it for a week now and still really tired, various nerve pain, joint pain, muscle fatigue ...seems to cycle, weak and dizzy, some blurred vision but it's all better than it had been just seems it should be gone since the meds are out of my system. Read More. Symptoms 1) September 18th I was treated with Zithromax and Ciprofloxacin for a UTI at Urgent Care. I had a small pain when urinating with no discharge. 2)September 26th pain in my on both sides and top of groin developed.