Best Answer: They speak English! Although the city is multicultural and there are many foreign languages spoken, the de facto language is English, just like the lower 48. And yes, if you graduated from Youngstown State University with a Bachelor of Music Education you could get a job in Alaska as a teacher. 
The Inuit languages are a closely related group of Native American languages traditionally spoken across the North American Arctic and to some extent in the subarctic in Labrador. The Inuit languages have a few hundred speakers in Russia. In addition, an estimated 7,000 Greenlandic Inuit live in European Denmark, the largest group outside of Greenland, Canada and Alaska.
At the time of statehood in 1959 there were twenty indigenous languages spoken within the boundaries of the state of Alaska. Within Alaska today these languages are generally referred to as Native languages. Most of these languages belong to one of two large language families: Eskimo-Aleut and Athabaskan-Eyak-Tlingit (Na-Dene). The last speaker of Eyak died in 2008. Though not included as a modern Alaska Native language, Tsetsaut was still spoken in the region of the Portland Canal in southern Alaska at the time of Alaska purchase in 1867.
The language of the Inuit is an Eskimo–Aleut language. It is fairly closely related to the Yupik languages, and more remotely to the Aleut language. These cousin languages are all spoken in Western Alaska and Eastern Chukotka, Russia. The Inuit languages have a few hundred speakers in Russia. In addition, an estimated 7,000 Greenlandic Inuit live in European Denmark, the largest group outside of Greenland, Canada and Alaska.
Alaska is home to at least twenty distinct indigenous languages. More than just dialectal variants, these different languages reflect the diverse cultural heritage of Alaska's Native peoples. For more information about particular languages, click on one of the language names on the left. Also: Lists of common expressions and dog names in several languages.
Alaska passed a bill in 1998 designating English as the official state language. In 2014 the official language act was amended, adding 20 Alaskan native languages as co-official languages with English. 
Alaska-Languages. From the Tlingit, Haida, and Tsimshian groups of lower Alaska almost no language influence has been felt, save for hooch (from Tlingit hoochino); but some native words have escaped into general usage, notably Eskimo mukluk and Aleut parka.
About 3.5% speak Spanish. A total of 5.2% of Alaskans speak one of the state's 22 indigenous languages, known locally as native languag … es. The rest speak other European or Asian languages at home, but may also speak English as a second language. There is not only 1 language but there are many other more languages so the question should be what ARE the languages spoken in Alaska. Or what is the the language the is wide … ly spoken in Alaska.The widely spoken language in Alaska is English. Mark Swarthout. 775,633 Contributions. Contract attorney. When not working I teach karate, collect stamps, write books, and play the ukulel
Of these twenty languages, one is now extinct. The last speaker of Eyak died in 2008. Though not included as a modern Alaska Native language, Tsetsaut was still spoken in the region of the Portland Canal in southern Alaska at the time of Alaska purchase in 1867. The last speaker likely died in the 1930s or 1940's