A pharmacy technician, sometimes known as a pharmaceutical technician, is a health care provider who performs pharmacy-related functions, generally working under the direct supervision of a licensed pharmacist. In the National Health Service (NHS) Pharmacy Technicians work under the direct supervision of a Senior/ Specialist Pharmacy Technician and is accountable to the Chief Pharmacy Technician/ Lead Pharmacist even if not in a dispensary and work mainly in one of two areas, hospital pharmacy and community pharmacy.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a technician is a person whose job or training involves a specific technical process, or is someone skilled or trained in a specific art or craft. An example of a technician is a person who works in a lab and who runs a machine that separates bacteria from blood samples in order to test for illness. 
Generally, Technician roles are based in the subjects of Science, Engineering or Technology, and involve the practical application of knowledge, proven techniques and procedures. Around two million people are employed in the UK as Technicians and Skilled Operatives, playing a vital role in the UK economy. There are currently different technician registration schemes in Science, Engineering and IT, and work is underway to create a technician registration framework across all STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths) sectors.
technician. a person skilled in the performance of the technical or procedural aspects of a profession. Generally, the minimum preparation for this role is a course of training of 2 years full time or the equivalent. The technician carries out the routine work of the profession under the supervision of a veterinar
noun tech·ni·cian \tek-ˈni-shən\. Tweet. : a person whose job relates to the practical use of machines or science in industry, medicine, etc. : someone who has mastered the basic techniques or skills in a sport, an art, etc. Full Definition of TECHNICIAN. 1. 2. See technician defined for English-language learners. See technician defined for kids.
A technician is a worker in a field of technology who is proficient in the relevant skills and techniques, with a relatively practical understanding of the theoretical principles. Thus a 'stage technician' is a worker who provides technical support for putting on a play, while a 'medical technician' is an employee who provides technical support in the medical industry or to the medical profession.
Practical training, such as completing an internship in a pharmacy, is also often required as part of training for employment as a pharmacy technician. Many employers favor pharmacy technicians to be certified with a national or local pharmacy board, such as by passing a standard exam and/or paying a fee. In the National Health Service (NHS) Pharmacy Technicians work under the direct supervision of a Senior/ Specialist Pharmacy Technician and is accountable to the Chief Pharmacy Technician/ Lead Pharmacist even if not in a dispensary and work mainly in one of two areas, hospital pharmacy and community pharmacy.
In Canada, according to a 2007 profile of the pharmacy technician workforce, 43% of technicians work in hospitals and other related facilities, 37% in chain or franchise community pharmacies, and 16% in independent community pharmacies. In the National Health Service (NHS) Pharmacy Technicians work under the direct supervision of a Senior/ Specialist Pharmacy Technician and is accountable to the Chief Pharmacy Technician/ Lead Pharmacist even if not in a dispensary and work mainly in one of two areas, hospital pharmacy and community pharmacy.
The word Technician may bring to mind the image of someone in a white lab coat, helping set up practical work in school Science lessons, but the roles now covered by this term span a range of sectors and specialist skills. There are currently different technician registration schemes in Science, Engineering and IT, and work is underway to create a technician registration framework across all STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths) sectors.
tech•ni•cian. 1. a person who is trained or skilled in the technicalities of a field, esp. one engaged in mechanical or in applied scientific work. 2. a person skilled in the technique of an art, as music or painting. n. An expert in a technique, as: a. One whose occupation requires training in a specific technical process: an electronics technician; an automotive technician.