As part of your prenatal care, you will have blood tests to find out your blood type. If your blood lacks the Rh antigen, it is called Rh-negative. If it has the antigen, it is called Rh-positive. When the mother is Rh-negative and the father is Rh-positive, the fetus can inherit the Rh factor from the father. This makes the fetus Rh-positive too. Problems can arise when the fetus’s blood has the Rh factor and the mother’s blood does not. Rh Factor. Each person’s blood is one of four major types: A, B, AB, or O. Blood types are determined by the types of antigens on the blood cells. Antigens are proteins on the surface of blood cells that can cause a response from the immune system. The Rh factor is a type of protein on the surface of red blood cells. Most people who have the Rh factor are Rh-positive
Rh is short for Rhesus factor. Rhesus factor is a type of antigen present on the surface of red blood cells. If you have have this particular antigen, you are Rh positive. If you don’t, you’re Rh negative. The Rh factor is important in determining blood type for transfusions. Normally Your immune system protects against potentially harmful substances (antigens). When foreign antigens enter your body, your immune system makes antibodies to help destroy them.
What the Test Does. The Rh factor is a type of protein that's usually on blood cells. When you have this protein, you are considered Rh positive. About 85% of people are Rh-positive. The rest are Rh-negative -- they don't have the protein. Normally, being Rh-negative has no risks. 
If you are Rh negative and you’re exposed to Rh-positive blood your body may make antibodies to Rh-positive blood on your next exposure to it. If a mother is Rh negative and a father is Rh positive, the child will likely be Rh-positive. This can create problems with pregnancy. If you don’t, you’re Rh negative. The Rh factor is important in determining blood type for transfusions. Normally Your immune system protects against potentially harmful substances (antigens). When foreign antigens enter your body, your immune system makes antibodies to help destroy them.
In addition to the A and B antigens, there is a third antigen called the Rh factor, which can be either present (+) or absent (–). In general, Rh negative blood is given to Rh-negative patients, and Rh positive blood or Rh negative blood may be given to Rh positive patients. 1  The universal red cell donor has Type O negative blood type. 2  The universal plasma donor has Type AB blood type
Rh system. The Rh system classifies blood as Rh-positive or Rh-negative, based on the presence or absence of Rh antibodies in the blood. People with Rh-positive blood can receive Rh-negative blood, but people with Rh-negative blood will have a transfusion reaction if they receive Rh-positive blood. 
If the Rh protein is present on the red blood cells, a person's blood type is Rh+ (positive); if it is absent, the person's blood is type Rh- (negative). Our bodies naturally produce antibodies against the A and B antigens that we do not have on our red blood cells. 
If the antigen is present, it is called Rh-positive. When the mother is Rh-negative and the father is Rh-positive, the fetus can inherit the Rh factor from the father. This makes the fetus Rh-positive too. Problems can arise when the fetus’s blood has the Rh factor and the mother’s blood does not. It is the most important blood group system after ABO. At present, the Rh blood group system consists of 50 defined blood-group antigens, among which the five antigens D, C, c, E, and e are the most important. The commonly used terms Rh factor, Rh positive and Rh negative refer to the D antigen only.
Rhesus (Rh) factor is an inherited protein found on the surface of red blood cells. If your blood has the protein, you're Rh positive. If your blood lacks the protein, you're Rh negative. Rh positive is the most common blood type. Having an Rh negative blood type is not an illness and usually does not affect your health. However, it can affect your pregnancy. Your pregnancy needs special care if you're Rh negative and your baby's father is Rh positive