Researchers realized that they had seen goblin sharks before -- not swimming in the seas, but in fossil remains. Shark fossils from the Scapanorhynchus species dating back more than 100 million years bore striking resemblance to the goblin shark [source: Bright ]. The last goblin shark sighting occurred in 2007 in Tokyo Bay, Japan [source: Mehta ]. After one day in captivity, the living fossil fish died. Since opportunities like that one are few and far between, it may be a long time before we decode all the mysteries of the goblin shark.
The prehistoric goblin shark (Mitsukurina owstoni) is the only species in its genus. According to scientists from the Sapphire Coast Marine Discovery Center in New South Wales, the species hasn’t evolved in the last 70 million years, which explains why many people call them “living fossils”. According to GrindTv.com …. 
Goblin Shark. 3,579 pages on this wiki. The Goblin shark, (Mitsukurina owstoni), is a rare, poorly known species of deep-sea shark. Sometimes called a  living fossil , it is the only extant representative of the family Mitsukurinidae, a lineage some 125 million years old. 
The goblin shark (Mitsukurina owstoni) is a rare species of deep-sea shark. Sometimes called a  living fossil , it is the only extant representative of the family Mitsukurinidae, a lineage some 125 million years old. This pink-skinned animal has a distinctive profile with an elongated, flattened snout, and highly protrusible jaws containing prominent nail-like teeth. It is usually between 3 and 4 m (10 and 13 ft) long when mature, though it can grow considerably larger. Goblin sharks inhabit upper continental slopes, submarine canyons, and seamounts throughout the world at depths greater than 100 m (330 ft), with adults found deeper than juveniles.
The goblin shark -- a rarely seen species often called a living fossil -- was caught alive in Tokyo Bay but died after being put on display. TOKYO, Japan -- A goblin shark -- a rarely seen species often called a living fossil -- was caught alive in Tokyo Bay but died after being put on display, an aquarium said. The grey, long-nosed shark was caught in fishermen's nets around 150 to 200 metres (500 to 650 feet) deep. We were able to bring it to the aquarium alive and show it to the public, said an official at the park. But the shark died on the morning of January 27. Dead goblin sharks are caught from time to time, but it is rarely seen alive.
The rare goblin shark was caught by fishermen on the NSW south coast. A rare and very unusual shark was caught by fishermen trawling off Green Cape, south of Eden on the NSW south coast last Thursday. The creepy looking fish, known as a goblin shark (Mitsukurina owstoni), was accidentally caught by local fisherman in a net along with a load of crayfish. The shark is sometimes called a living fossil and is usually found near the sea floor at depths of about 1200 metres. 
Various anatomical features of the goblin shark, such as its flabby body and small fins, suggest that it is sluggish in nature. This species hunts for teleost fishes, cephalopods, and crustaceans both near the sea floor and in the middle of the water column. It is usually between 3 and 4 m (10 and 13 ft) long when mature, though it can grow considerably larger. Goblin sharks inhabit upper continental slopes, submarine canyons, and seamounts throughout the world at depths greater than 100 m (330 ft), with adults found deeper than juveniles.
The Goblin shark (Mitsukurina owstoni) is a rare, poorly-known species of deep-sea shark. Sometimes called a  living fossil , it is the only living species in the family Mitsukurinidae. The Goblin shark can be easily identified by its long, flattened snout. Males can reach up to lengths of 12.6 feet (3.8 metres), and females can reach up to lengths of 12.2 feet (3.7 metres). 
Sometimes referred to as “living fossils,” goblin sharks are an exceedingly rare species that make their home near the sea floor, according to the Sydney Morning Herald. The anglers were pulling in their nets off Green Cape, south of Eden, when they spied the unusual shark amid their expected catch. 
Blast from the Past: Living Fossils. When the goblin shark species was first discovered off the coast of Japan in 1898, it set off a case of scientific deja déjà. Vu researchers realized that they had seen goblin sharks -- before not swimming in the, seas but in fossil. remains The last goblin shark sighting occurred in 2007 in Tokyo Bay, Japan [source: Mehta ]. After one day in captivity, the living fossil fish died. Since opportunities like that one are few and far between, it may be a long time before we decode all the mysteries of the goblin shark.