If you have an IQ between 85 and 110, you may not qualify for Mensa, but you’re still in good company; 68 percent of the population scores within this range. And we bet you’re smart enough to see that neither you nor your quality of life is defined by a number. 
An intelligence quotient (IQ) is a score derived from one of several standardized tests designed to assess human intelligence. The abbreviation IQ was coined by the psychologist William Stern for the German term Intelligenz-quotient, his term for a scoring method for intelligence tests he advocated in a 1912 book. By this definition, approximately two-thirds of the population scores between IQ 85 and IQ 115, and about 5 percent of the population scores above 125. IQ scores have been shown to be associated with such factors as morbidity and mortality, parental social status, and, to a substantial degree, biological parental IQ.
I.Q. (intelligence quotient) in general, is an assessment of your ability to think and reason. IQ score is a standardized way of comparing this ability with the majority of people the same age as you are. A score of 100 means that compared to these people in your general age group that you have basically an average intelligence.
IQ classification is the practice by IQ test publishers of labeling IQ score ranges with (somewhat subjective) category names such as superior or average. There are several publishers of tests of cognitive abilities. Like all current IQ tests, the Wechsler tests report a deviation IQ as the standard score for the full-scale IQ, with the norming sample median raw score defined as IQ 100 and a score one standard deviation higher defined as IQ 115 (and one deviation lower defined as IQ 85).
This score has been further adjusted to account for the differences in capabilities among various age groups. Last 10 results of this IQ Test : The bell curve (also called a normal curve or normal distribution) is a graph that shows approximately how much of the population falls into each IQ range. In theory, if we tested everyone in the world with a traditional IQ test, most people would score in the  Average range. A smaller number would score moderately below average and moderately above average. Very high and very low scores are rare.
The current scoring method for all IQ tests is the deviation IQ. In this method, an IQ score of 100 means that the test-taker's performance on the test is at the median level of performance in the sample of test-takers of about the same age used to norm the test. Like all current IQ tests, the Wechsler tests report a deviation IQ as the standard score for the full-scale IQ, with the norming sample median raw score defined as IQ 100 and a score one standard deviation higher defined as IQ 115 (and one deviation lower defined as IQ 85).
Einstein was considered to only have an IQ of about 160. Mensa is a society for people with high IQ, in the top 2% (1 in 50). In 1926, psychologist Catherine Morris Cox published a study of the most eminent men and women who had lived between 1450 and 1850 to estimate what their IQs might have been. Go to Estimated IQs of the Greatest Geniuses. Low IQ & Mental Retardation. 5% of people have an IQ under 70 and this is generally considered as the benchmark for mental retardation, a condition of limited mental ability in that it produces difficulty in adapting to the demands of life.
An ‘ average IQ score’ or ‘normal IQ score’ can be defined as a score between 85 and 115. 68% of people score between 85 and 115. The Mensa qualifying IQ score is a score that puts you in the top 2% of the population in a bell curve like this one. The Mensa qualifying score is 130 or higher, as shown below. This table indicates how IQ levels can be classified. One strategy for measuring your true IQ level and assessing your chance of joining Mensa is to take a Mensa supervised test – $40.00 in the US / £17.50 in the UK. This fee includes: 1  A reserved place at the centre of your choice.
All IQ tests show variation in scores even when the same person takes the same test over and over again. IQ scores also differ for a test-taker taking tests from more than one publisher at the same age. The various test publishers do not use uniform names or definitions for IQ score classifications. Like all current IQ tests, the Wechsler tests report a deviation IQ as the standard score for the full-scale IQ, with the norming sample median raw score defined as IQ 100 and a score one standard deviation higher defined as IQ 115 (and one deviation lower defined as IQ 85).