Of course, it speaks volumes that the same fish can be caught time and time again, after all, a dog that gets hit when it pees on the carpt will learn eventually that that action will bring about a negative reaction. Fish dont seem to have this response, so it would seem that pain is meaningless to them.
Second is to use a wet hand or a wet towel when you handle a fish. They have a slime on them that is an insulation. It protects them not only thermally but it protects them from germs and such. If you do gut hook them just cut the line. The hook will quickly dissolve and it will not hurt the fish.
They say fish do not have a brain system or enough sensory receptors in the nerve cells to experience suffering. In the clear: Anglers may be off the hook after a research team discovered fish don't feel pain. While fish may struggle to get free, the scientists say this does not mean they are in pain. Instead, they show ‘little effect’ from injuries and toxins that would leave humans in agony.
Yes fish hooks will hurt the animal. Many places are making it only legal to fish with barbless hooks which can be removed easier with less damage to the fish (for catch and release fishing) than a traditional hook.
They believe that getting a nasty-looking hook stuck in the mouth doesn't hurt fish. Fishing enthusiasts insist the nervous system of the aquatic creatures is far too primitive for them to feel real pain. After they bite, fish often put up an impressive fight.
Re:Does fishing with a hook hurt the fish? Get him used to fishing with catch and release. When he is old enough to understand the circle of life hide them in the cooler so he doesn't have to watch them flop if he doesn't want to.
If fishing hooks were painful, then a fish on a hook wouldn't fight, but rather follow the pull of the line as willingly as a bull that can be easily led with a nose ring, argues Viennese fisherman Johann Brabenetz in the trade journal Der Fliegenfischer (The Fly Fisherman).
Another reason a fish can get injured is from the hook. Ideally, you hook the fish in the mouth -- it's called shallow hooking. Shallow hooking also includes the cheek and jaw. Deep hooking refers to a fish being hung on its belly, through the gills or deep into the throat near internal organs.