From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Corporate blog is a blog that is published and used by an organization, corporation, etc. to reach its organizational goals. The advantage of blogs is that posts and comments are easy to reach and follow due to centralized hosting and generally structured conversation threads. 
A good place to start for some background on the terminology of blogs and the blogosphere is Wikipedia (http://en.wikipedia.org). There, blogs are described as: “The term blog is a shortened form of weblog or web log. Authoring a blog, maintaining a blog or adding an article to an existing blog is called “blogging”. Individual articles on a blog are called “blog posts,” “posts” or “entries”. A person who posts these entries is called a “blogger”. 
Blog can also be used as a verb, meaning to maintain or add content to a blog. The emergence and growth of blogs in the late 1990s coincided with the advent of web publishing tools that facilitated the posting of content by non-technical users. By media type. A blog comprising videos is called a vlog, one comprising links is called a linklog, a site containing a portfolio of sketches is called a sketchblog or one comprising photos is called a photoblog. Blogs with shorter posts and mixed media types are called tumblelogs.
Several blog search engines have been used to search blog contents, such as Bloglines, BlogScope, and Technorati. Technorati was one of the more popular blog search engines, but the website stopped indexing blogs and assigning authority scores in May 2014. Blogscope shut down early in 2012. By media type. A blog comprising videos is called a vlog, one comprising links is called a linklog, a site containing a portfolio of sketches is called a sketchblog or one comprising photos is called a photoblog. Blogs with shorter posts and mixed media types are called tumblelogs.
In that aspect blog is an online diary, notebook or a page, where a person can enter … all that he/she wishes to. A blog can be related to any topic and can have many readers. The more number of readers and interactions is an indication of the blog's popularity and its reach. There are many blogging sites where free accounts area available-Blogger, Blog spot, WordPress, Hub pages, Tumblr etc. 
This book demonstrates the take-up of blogs and blogging for a number uses in industrial and social contexts. This is a broad, but deep look at the social, political, business, and academic effects that blogging is having on our society. Blogs and Blogging. This is a broad, but deep look at the social, political, business, and academic effects that blogging is having on our society. Highly recommended!-- Robert Scoble, Corporate Blogger, Microsoft Corporation We blog, therefore we are players in our own future.
A blog (a truncation of the expression weblog) is a discussion or informational site published on the World Wide Web and consisting of discrete entries (posts) typically displayed in reverse chronological order (the most recent post appears first). By media type. A blog comprising videos is called a vlog, one comprising links is called a linklog, a site containing a portfolio of sketches is called a sketchblog or one comprising photos is called a photoblog. Blogs with shorter posts and mixed media types are called tumblelogs.
A typical blog combines text, images, and links to other blogs, Web pages, and other media related to its topic. The ability of readers to leave comments in an interactive format is an important contribution to the popularity of many blogs. By media type. A blog comprising videos is called a vlog, one comprising links is called a linklog, a site containing a portfolio of sketches is called a sketchblog or one comprising photos is called a photoblog. Blogs with shorter posts and mixed media types are called tumblelogs.
Because there are a variety of styles of blogging-from de facto news sites to marketing blogs, blogs as learning tools, writers' drafting blogs, corporate dark blogs and fictional blogs, to name a few-it can be difficult to imagine how blogs might be used in particular environments. Blogs and Blogging. This is a broad, but deep look at the social, political, business, and academic effects that blogging is having on our society. Highly recommended!-- Robert Scoble, Corporate Blogger, Microsoft Corporation We blog, therefore we are players in our own future.