You may take 1 Dulcolax ® Laxative Suppository a day for up to 7 days. If you need to use a laxative for more than 7 days, consult a doctor. Adults and children over 12 years can take 1 Dulcolax ® Laxative Suppository a day. Children 6 to under 12 years of age can take a ½ suppository a day. For children under 6 years of age, consult a doctor. Remove the suppository from the plastic wrapping and insert the suppository, pointed end first, into the rectum.
1 There are a few things you can try if you are REALLY in trouble. 2  You can try glycerine suppositories from the local drug store. 3  You can try Fleet enemas from the drug store; use the child size or half of the adult size. 4  You can try Dulcolax suppositories from the drug store. 
Dulcolax bisacodyl 5mg pediatric suppository. When my son was only a few weeks old, he had constipation and no bowel movement for more than two days. Alarmed, I decided to increase his fluid intake to give him softer stools. 
He recommended that I try Dulcolax, and I was at first afraid to try a straight-up stimulant laxative because I had heard they are destructive to the bowels. My doctor told me that in fact I could take it the rest of my life without trouble. I wasn't sure if I believed that, but I gave it a try. On reading through the reviews of Dulcolax, I notice that it is always taken in tablet form. I am in my 80s and I have had IBS-C for at least 10 years. After considerable time spent at gastroenterologists' clinics it was eventually recommended that I take Dulcolax in the liquid form. This works for me.
Bisacodyl is a laxative that stimulates bowel movements. Bisacodyl is used to treat constipation or to empty the bowels before surgery, colonoscopy, x-rays, or other intestinal medical procedure. Bisacodyl may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide. You should not use this medication if you are allergic to bisacodyl, or if you have: 1  severe stomach pain, nausea, or vomiting; 2  a perforated bowel; 3  a blockage in your intestines; 4  fructose or galactose intolerance; 5  an allergy to yellow food dye; 6  severe constipation or dehydration;
Dulcolax is a stimulant laxative which contains bisacodyl in tablet form. A stimulant laxative means that it stimulates the muscles of the bowel wall to make them contract and so push food along faster. Dulcolax suppositories are also available, again containing bisacodyl. Dulcolax tablets are swallowed with water and the suppositories are inserted into the rectum. There is also a liquid form of Dulcolax available. On reading through the reviews of Dulcolax, I notice that it is always taken in tablet form. I am in my 80s and I have had IBS-C for at least 10 years. After considerable time spent at gastroenterologists' clinics it was eventually recommended that I take Dulcolax in the liquid form. This works for me.
Do not give this medication to a child without the advice of a doctor. When used to treat constipation, bisacodyl is only part of a complete program of treatment that may also include diet and exercise. Follow your doctor's instructions very closely. You should not use this medication if you are allergic to bisacodyl, or if you have: 1  severe stomach pain, nausea, or vomiting; 2  a perforated bowel; 3  a blockage in your intestines; 4  fructose or galactose intolerance; 5  an allergy to yellow food dye; 6  severe constipation or dehydration;
Do not take a bisacodyl rectal (enema or suppository) by mouth. It is for use only in your rectum. Try to use the rectal form of this medicine at a time when you can lie down afterward and hold the medicine in. Avoid using the bathroom during this time. You should not use this medication if you are allergic to bisacodyl, or if you have: 1  severe stomach pain, nausea, or vomiting; 2  a perforated bowel; 3  a blockage in your intestines; 4  fructose or galactose intolerance; 5  an allergy to yellow food dye; 6  severe constipation or dehydration;
Pedia-Lax Liquid Glycerin Suppositories are a gentle, safe way to relieve your child's discomfort from occasional constipation. The unique applicator delivers doctor-recommended glycerin with no mess. Just insert, squeeze, remove and discard. 
Rectal bleeding or failure to have a bowel movement after use of a laxative may indicate a more serious condition. Stop using bisacodyl and contact your healthcare provider. You should not use this medication if you are allergic to bisacodyl, or if you have: 1  severe stomach pain, nausea, or vomiting; 2  a perforated bowel; 3  a blockage in your intestines; 4  fructose or galactose intolerance; 5  an allergy to yellow food dye; 6  severe constipation or dehydration;