Bacteria won't multiply in the colder temperatures of a refrigerator or freezer, or at temperatures hotter than 141°F. Where they thrive is between 41°F and 140°F, a region known as the Temperature Danger Zone.. In short, you want to keep cold foods cold, and keep hot foods hot. Here are some basic food handling techniques to help you do just that. And here's a table showing the key temperatures of
Temperature: the danger zone. An important part of food safety is food temperature and storage. Bacteria can grow on food that isn’t kept at the proper temperature. The ideal temperature zone for bacteria to multiply in high-risk food is known as the ‘temperature danger zone.’ When handling food, always make sure that you keep high risk food in the temperature danger zone for as short a time as possible. 
The Danger Zone is the temperature range between 40 °F (4.4 ºC) and 140 °F (60 ºC) in which bacteria can grow rapidly. To keep food out of the Danger Zone, keep cold food cold, at or below 40 °F (4.4 ºC) , and hot food hot, at or above 140 °F (60 ºC). Keep cold food in the refrigerator, in coolers, or in containers on ice.
The longer food is in the temperature danger zone, the more time pathogens have to grow. The goal is to reduce the amount of time TCS food spends in the temperature danger zone. If food is held in this range for four or more hours, you must throw it out. A leading cause of foodborne illness is time and temperature abuse of TCS (food requiring time and temperature control for safety) foods. TCS foods are time and temperature abused any time they’re in the temperature danger zone, 41°F to 140°F.
The temperature range in which food-borne bacteria can grow is known as the danger zone. Food safety agencies, such as the United States' Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS), define the danger zone as roughly 4–5 to 60 °C (39–41 to 140 °F). Time and temperature control plays a critical role in food safety. To prevent time-temperature abuse, the amount of time food spends in the danger zone must be minimized.
Bacteria grow most rapidly in the range of temperatures between 40 °F and 140 °F, doubling in number in as little as 20 minutes. This range of temperatures is often called the “Danger Zone.” Keep Food Out of the “Danger Zone” Never leave food out of refrigeration over 2 hours. 
There are many steps during the process of preparing and serving food in which time and temperature must be controlled. Harmful microorganisms grow well in foods held between temperatures of 41 degrees Fahrenheit and 135 degrees Fahrenheit. This temperature range is also known as the Temperature Danger Zone (TDZ). The less time foods spend in the TDZ, the less time harmful microorganisms have to grow.
Note: In order to avoid food poisoning, make sure to keep your foods out of the danger zone. Refrigerate all foods within two hours or one hour if it is over 90°F outside, and before eating reheat to a safe minimum internal temperature. In order to substantially decrease your risk of food poisoning you must keep your foods at a safe temperature and out of the infamous danger zone..
Food-borne bacteria, in large enough numbers, can cause so-called food poisoning, symptoms similar to gastroenteritis or stomach flu (a misnomer, as true influenza primarily affects the respiratory system). Some of the symptoms include stomach cramps, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and fever. Time and temperature control plays a critical role in food safety. To prevent time-temperature abuse, the amount of time food spends in the danger zone must be minimized.