body awareness: a dance element that comprises focus on body shapes, body base, body part, locomotor and non-locomotor movements. body base: the part of the body supporting a dancer in a balanced position (such as two feet, or one hand and one foot). body shape: curved, straight, open, closed, symmetrical, asymmetrical. form: the choreographic structure or structures that shape a dance work; or a broad term that refers to a specific type of dance (for example, theatre dance, folk dance); or a particular practice, style, or genre of dance.
general space: space in the overall dance area that is shared by all dancers. genre: a specific category of dance that has a tradition or history and is identifiable by specific characteristics, social functions, and cultural contexts (for example, romantic ballet, hip-hop, kapahaka). form: the choreographic structure or structures that shape a dance work; or a broad term that refers to a specific type of dance (for example, theatre dance, folk dance); or a particular practice, style, or genre of dance.
Abstraction: when applied to dance, this word refers to choreography that does not have a narrative character. In other words, an abstract dance does not tell a story, nor is related to symbolic contents or any kind of associations with feelings, ideas or other elements than movement itself. Dance steps: this is an expression that we use to refer to codified movements, which make part of a dancing vocabulary. A dance step is not necessarily a common step (with a leg), but can be any movement of the body that is already recognized as part of a dance type or style.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Dance: In dance space is used by a dancer that moves in and through space. When you dance the movement takes up space, and when you are performing it is in a space. You also need personal space to do tricks, flips and cartwheels. When you dance everyone need their own space. Space in dance is associated with amount of area a dancer takes up  when dancing. This is very important when a person plans a dance  routine for competition. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: Starr Luteri. 26,142 Contributions. Owner of Starrdreams.com, I take a Jungian psychological approach to dreams.
- Brainly.com;what does space mean in dance???????\tConsumer_Product_Consumer_Product_Platform\tplatform\thttp://schema.org/Question^0|0|1|what does space mean in dance???????... - Brainly.com;what does space mean in dance???????\tEmpty_Attr\t\twhat does space mean in dance???????... 
Shape. Shape is an aspect of the element of space. Shape is perhaps the strongest visual component in dance. The term shape may refer to individual body shapes (the way in which 3-dimensional space is used by the body) and group shapes. Body shapes are present in all actions in dance. Shapes in dance convey meaning
Dance: In dance space is used by a dancer that moves in and through space. When you dance the movement takes up space, and when you are performing it is in a space. You also n … eed personal space to do tricks, flips and cartwheels. When you dance everyone need their own space. Space lets you move freely
When referring to dance, it expresses the same but in choreographic terms: two (or more) choreographic fragments with different use of space, time and/or body are executed together and make part of a choreographic unity. Dance steps: this is an expression that we use to refer to codified movements, which make part of a dancing vocabulary. A dance step is not necessarily a common step (with a leg), but can be any movement of the body that is already recognized as part of a dance type or style.
elements of dance: the key components of movement (for example, space, time, energy, relationships, body awareness). embellishment: a choreographic device where detail is added to a move, such as a hand gesture or an arm movement. form: the choreographic structure or structures that shape a dance work; or a broad term that refers to a specific type of dance (for example, theatre dance, folk dance); or a particular practice, style, or genre of dance.