Authorities say Ralston, who gained widespread attention when he cut off his forearm to free himself after becoming trapped by a dislodged boulder in a Utah canyon, was arrested Sunday, Dec. 8, 2013 in Denver for domestic violence.
127 Hours is the true story of mountain climber Aron Ralston's remarkable adventure to save himself after a fallen boulder crashes on his arm and traps him in an isolated canyon in Utah.
Danny Boyle's new film, 127 Hours, tells how climber Aron Ralston found himself trapped alone in a canyon and had to perform DIY surgery to save his life. Patrick Barkham talks to him. Aron Ralston prepares to chop off his own arm to free himself, 48 hours into his ordeal in a Utah canyon.
Aron Ralston, the hiker who cut off his forearm in order to free himself after becoming trapped by a dislodged boulder, was arrested by Denver police for domestic violence. Ralston, 38, was arrested Saturday night and is being held in the Denver City Jail facing one count of assault and one count of wrongs to minors.
The hiker who cut off his own hand to free himself from a Utah canyon and inspired the blockbuster film '127 Hours' has been arrested on domestic violence charges. Aron Ralston, 38, was booked into the Denver County jail Saturday after police arrested him on suspicion of assault and 'wrongs to minors.'.
Update 4:30 p.m. ET: The domestic violence case against Ralston has been dismissed “at the request of the city attorney,” per the AP. The hiker who cut off his own arm after a boulder pinned him in a Utah canyon and inspired the movie 127 Hours was arrested in Denver on domestic violence charges Sunday.
DENVER (TheBlaze/AP) — A man who cut off his forearm to free himself from a dislodged boulder in a Utah canyon was arrested in Denver on allegations of domestic violence.
comments. Booked: Aron Ralston, whose story of amputating his own hand was turned into the film '127 Hours,' had domestic violence charges dropped. The hiker who cut off his own hand to free himself from a Utah canyon and inspired the blockbuster film '127 Hours' has been arrested on domestic violence charges. Aron Ralston, 38, was booked into the Denver County jail Saturday after police arrested him on suspicion of assault and 'wrongs to minors.'.