Rhinoplasty Costs. In Toronto, first time or primary rhinoplasty tends to cost anywhere from $3000-$12,000. It depends on the complexity of the procedure and experience of the surgeon in this field. Rhinoplasty can only be performed by surgeons who have been approved for either facial plastic surgery or head and neck surgery by the Royal College of Surgeons of Canada. But the certification alone does not mean that the surgeon is an expert in doing this type of surgery.
The average cost of rhinoplasty is $4,694, according to 2014 statistics from the American Society of Plastic Surgeons. Rhinoplasty surgery costs can vary widely. The average fee referenced above does not include anesthesia, operating room facilities or other related expenses. 
Montreal Rhinoplasty Montreal Guide to Nose Jobs inlcuding rhinoplasty costs and issues beyond nose job prices. Dr. Mark Samaha is a Montreal cosmetic surgeon and plastic surgery specialist in rhinoplasty procedures. Montreal's Best Cosmetic Surgeon. Laval Plastic Surgery Specialist. 
What is the cost of rhinoplasty? The cost of rhinoplasty depends on several factors including the complexity of the case, surgical fees, and facility costs. The cost of a primary rhinoplasty surgery varies from $3,000 to $12,000, and revision procedures generally cost more. The average cost of rhinoplasty at our clinic is $5,500. Surgeons who are qualified to perform rhinoplasty in Canada are usually board certified in either: 1  Facial plastic surgery, which focuses specifically on the face. 2  Otolaryngology (head and neck surgery), which focuses on treatment of the ears, nose, and throat.
Rhinoplasty can cost between $3,000 and $15,000 depending on your surgeon's reputation and level of expertise, the complexity of your surgery, the geographic location of your surgeon's practice, and many other factors. Ambulatory surgical center fees are usually around $3,000 or more for a single rhinoplasty procedure. Hospitals are the most expensive choice of facility. In Manhattan, fees can reach $6,000 and beyond for a single
The Cost of Rhinoplasty. The cost of rhinoplasty includes two main components: the surgery fee and a facility fee. The latter includes operating room and other associated expenses. There are multiple factors that can vary the cost of surgery: First, the operating room or facility expenses, which include utilities, operating room staff, equipment, sterilization, and medications; Second, the extent and complexity of the surgery.
Dr. Zakhary makes Rhinoplasty a large focus of her practice in Calgary and Edmonton. Rhinoplasty surgery, which is commonly referred to as a Nose Job, is one of the most common plastic surgery procedures performed by facial plastic Surgeons. 
Your plastic surgeon's experience and reputation make the greatest difference in the cost of rhinoplasty. Here in Manhattan, it is possible to undergo the procedure for as little as $3,000 when it is performed by surgeons-in-training, supervised by senior surgeons. Ambulatory surgical center fees are usually around $3,000 or more for a single rhinoplasty procedure. Hospitals are the most expensive choice of facility. In Manhattan, fees can reach $6,000 and beyond for a single
Q: How much does rhinoplasty cost? A: In most cases, primary rhinoplasty (that is, first time surgery) costs $4799.00. If you have had failed surgery by another surgeon, the price is $5699.00 as these cases usually demand significantly more time and have less predictable outcomes. We accept all forms of payment. A: At the Toronto Rhinoplasty Clinic, we will not consider rhinoplasty on anyone under 16 years of age except in exceptional circumstances such as in cases of trauma or severe nasal airway obstruction.