Upper Back Spasm Causes. Most back spasms are the result of one of 2 possible processes: The first and most obvious is traumatic injury to the area. Injury can cause pinched nerves and general inflammation, which can bring on back muscle spasm throughout the surrounding anatomy. Upper Back Spasm Treatment. Upper back muscle spasms generally make use of the arms and head virtually impossible. These sudden attacks can put anyone into a state of panic in seconds.
The most common causes of back muscle spasms include strain on muscles, and injury to the back during sports or due to an accident. Multiple sclerosis, formation of tumors near the spastic muscles, infections, and nerve irritation are known to be the less common causes of this condition. 
Causes of muscle spasm. The first step to getting to the bottom of what your back is telling you and to feeling better is to determine the cause of your back muscle spasm. Muscles spasms occur: 1  As a result of the muscles trying to protect themselves from a muscle strain or sprain or. 2  In response to an underlying condition
Back spasms can be the result of injuries to the muscles, tendons, and ligaments in the back or it can be related to more serious medical conditions. Heavy lifting is a common cause of back spasms. Any activity that puts excessive strain on the muscles and ligaments in the lower back can cause an injury. Back spasms may occur if you have arthritis or a ruptured disk in your spine. Arthritis in the lower back can put pressure on the spinal cord, which may cause pain in the back and the legs.
A back spasm is a sudden and involuntary contraction, or uncontrollable tightening, of a muscle in response to strain, overuse, weakness, or muscle pain related to injury or a disorder. Back spasms often occur near the spinal cord or near the nerve roots that lead in and out of the spinal cord. 
A strain causes pain in the upper back between your shoulder blade and your spine. A spasm feels like a knot or tightness in the muscle. You may have pain when you move your shoulders or when you breathe. View image. The rhomboid muscles in your upper back connect the inner edges of your shoulder blades to your spine. A rhomboid strain is a stretch or tear of these muscles. A rhomboid spasm is a sudden tightening of the muscle that you cannot control.
Video Transcript. In discussing back muscle spasms, it's important to remember that sometimes spasms of the muscle in the back is just a spasm of the muscle. When I say that, what I mean is muscles have their own intrinsic protective mechanisms. 
Unfamiliar exercise activities can also cause muscle spasms to occur. Abdominal spasms can occur when a person decides to begin working their abdominal muscles by doing sit-ups and does too many too quickly. Writer's cramps of the hand and fingers are similarly caused by prolonged use of the small muscles in the hand. Chronic neck and back pain can lead to recurrent muscles spasms. Large muscle groups make up the trunk, including the neck, chest wall, upper back, and lower back. Spasms in these muscles can be a result of an injury or they may develop over time because of arthritic changes in the spine.