Lockheed Martin UK, headquartered in London, is the UK-based arm of Lockheed Martin Corporation, a global security & aerospace company. Lockheed Martin UK specialises in the development, integration & sustainment of advanced technology systems, products & services. The Lockheed Martin team at Royal Air Force Brize Norton is part of Lockheed Martin's Integrated Systems business, a leading provider of systems engineering, software development and complex programme management for global security, civil and commercial markets.
Headquartered in Bethesda, Md., Lockheed Martin is a global security and aerospace company that employs about 112,000 people worldwide and is principally engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture, integration and sustainment of advanced technology systems, products and services. In fact, Lockheed Martin is the largest provider of IT services, systems integration, and training to the U.S. Government. The remaining portion of Lockheed Martin's business is comprised of international government and some commercial sales of our products, services and platforms.
1 London Lockheed Martin UK, headquartered in London, is the UK-based arm of Lockheed Martin Corporation, a global security & aerospace company. 2  Lockheed Martin UK specialises in the development, integration & sustainment of advanced technology systems, products & services. The Lockheed Martin team at Royal Air Force Brize Norton is part of Lockheed Martin's Integrated Systems business, a leading provider of systems engineering, software development and complex programme management for global security, civil and commercial markets.
Who We Are. Lockheed Martin UK, headquartered in London, is the UK-based arm of Lockheed Martin Corporation. Lockheed Martin UK specialises in the development, integration and sustainment of advanced technology systems, products and services. Learn more about what we do and the people who work for us. 
The Lockheed Martin is an aerospace, security, defense, as well as advanced Technology firm, which operates globally. It was formed after the merger of Martin Marietta and Lockheed Corporation in 1995, and it is headquarters is located in Bethesda, Maryland. The company has approx 123, 000 employees worldwide. 
Lockheed Martin (NYSE: LMT) is an American global aerospace, defense, security and advanced technologies company with worldwide interests. It was formed by the merger of Lockheed Corporation with Martin Marietta in March 1995. It is headquartered in Bethesda, Maryland, in the Washington, DC, area. Lockheed Martin employs 116,000 people worldwide.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Lockheed Martin Space Systems Company is one of the four major business divisions of Lockheed Martin. It has its headquarters in Denver, Colorado with additional sites in Sunnyvale, California; Santa Cruz, California; Huntsville, Alabama; and elsewhere in the US and UK. Lockheed Martin Space Systems is now headquartered in Denver, but still does considerable operations from Sunnyvale. Also located near Sunnyvale is Space Technology Advanced Research and Development Laboratories (STAR Laboratories), which is located in Palo Alto.
CUSTOMER BASE: As a global security, aerospace, and information technology company, the majority of Lockheed Martin's business is with the U.S. Department of Defense and the U.S. federal government agencies. In fact, Lockheed Martin is the largest provider of IT services, systems integration, and training to the U.S. Government. The remaining portion of Lockheed Martin's business is comprised of international government and some commercial sales of our products, services and platforms.