Costs of liquidation. The costs of a liquidation varies depending on the complexity of the case, and the extent of the work required to liquidate the company, however as a rough guide an insolvency practitioner will usually charge around £4000 to £7000 to liquidate a company. 
The Fees charged must be approved by the creditors. If the company has assets that can be sold, the Liquidator’s fee will be charged against those funds, as a cost of the Liquidation. If the company has no assets, then the Liquidation costs are payable in advance. Generally speaking, the bigger the Company, the higher the fee is a rough rule of thumb. InsolvencyDirect offers extremely competitive fixed fee prices starting from £2,000 including VAT and disbursements, rising in relation to the size of the company’s business.
The cost of liquidation varies according to the size of the insolvent company and the type of liquidation procedure involved: • Compulsory Liquidation. • Creditors’ Voluntary Liquidation (CVL). • Members’ Voluntary Liquidation (MVL). In general, if the company has assets that can be sold, the liquidator’s fee will be charged as a cost of the liquidation – payable out of the proceeds realised. However, if there are no assets, then the liquidation costs must be paid in advance.
To determine the value of a business in forced liquidation, an appraiser estimates what the likely price would be for each asset the business owns if it were sold at auction after only 60 to 90 days of advertising. He then adds the prices of all assets together to determine the business's forced liquidation value. 
Typical Compulsory Liquidation costs are £2,000 to £3,000, which should include all court costs and disbursements. It’s worth noting that this amount of money would cover the cost of Creditors’ Voluntary Liquidation, which is a less aggressive way to close a business properly. • Members’ Voluntary Liquidation (MVL). In general, if the company has assets that can be sold, the liquidator’s fee will be charged as a cost of the liquidation – payable out of the proceeds realised. However, if there are no assets, then the liquidation costs must be paid in advance.
DEFINITION of 'Liquidation'. 1. When a business or firm is terminated or bankrupt, its assets are sold and the proceeds pay creditors. Any leftovers are distributed to shareholders. 2. Any transaction that offsets or closes out a long or short position. 
In law and business, liquidation is the process by which a company (or part of a company) is brought to an end, and the assets and property of the company are redistributed. Liquidation is also sometimes referred to as winding-up or dissolution, although dissolution technically refers to the last stage of liquidation. 
In a voluntary liquidation, these expenses, along with the cost of appointing an insolvency practitioner, are all covered by the directors. The up front cost of a typical CVL usually ranges from £3000 to £7000, depending on the insolvency practitioner’s rates and the amount of work involved. There are two main types of liquidations for insolvent companies– compulsory liquidation and creditor’s voluntary liquidation (CVL). In a compulsory liquidation the company is wound up by one of its creditors or HMRC after failing to pay a debt of more than £750.
4. Establish the liquidation value of your assets. The liquidation value is how much you make in a forced sale situation, and is generally at least 20% less than retail value. Work with a qualified appraiser to establish the liquidation value of your assets. Once you obtain a written copy, study it before entertaining any offers. 5. Make sure that a sale is worthwhile.
There is no simple way to estimate how much liquidating your company will cost; this depends on a variety of factors. The first step in liquidation is to seek out a legitimate and reputable business liquidator. You can do this by checking around websites of these service providers and soliciting possible referrals from trusted colleagues. The average quote offered is $6,500. However, liquidating companies are open to fee negotiations and the final cost often depends on the complexity of the situation, nature of the business, the number of creditors, value of debt, and time when company ceased its operation