Bermondsey (/ˈbɜrməndzi/) is a district in south London, and a part of the London Borough of Southwark. To the west of Bermondsey lies Southwark / Borough, to the east Rotherhithe and Deptford, and to the south, Walworth and Peckham. To the north is the City of London and Whitechapel in the London Borough of Tower Hamlets
Bermondsey. The church of St Mary Magdalen in Bermondsey Street. First of all we should note that only part of Bermondsey is in SE1; much of the area lies within the SE16 postal area. The 'Bermondsey Village' area centred on Bermondsey Street has seen an upsurge in artistic and commercial activity in recent years.
Bermondsey is within LB of Southwark and bordered by Wapping, Peckham, Southwark, City of London, Walworth, Rotherhithe, and LB of Tower Hamlets. The London Eye: 15 minutes on the tube. 
The parish of St. Mary Magdalene, Bermondsey, is bounded by Southwark on the west, by Rotherhithe on the east and by Camberwell on the south. The river frontage extends only from St. Saviour's Dock, of which it comprehends the eastern half, to Cherry Garden Pier. It comprises an area of 620 acres. (fn. The parish comprehended the Snows Fields on the west of Bermondsey Street, the Court Yard and Grange Yard, and the road from Bermondsey Street to West Lane. (fn. 8) The latter is now Grange Road and Southwark Park Road, and was called Blue Anchor Road in the middle of the 18th century (fn. 9) and in 1871. (fn.
The Bermondsey Yard Cafe. From the Co founders of The RoofTop Cafe, one of London's most iconic rooftop restaurants comes The Bermondsey Yard Cafe, a new dining concept situated on the energetic and vibrant Bermondsey Street. The Bermondsey Yard Cafe is an exciting new project offering something totally uniqu
Welcome to our guide for the area around Bermondsey Street in Southwark. Below we present a selection of upcoming events, local attractions and great places to eat and shop. The nearest station to Bermondsey Street is London Bridge Railway Station which is about 3 minutes to the North West. Bermondsey Street is in the London area of Bankside.
Bermondsey is a London Underground station. It is situated in the eastern part of Bermondsey in the London Borough of Southwark, and so also serves the western part of Rotherhithe. The station itself was designed by Ian Ritchie Architects and was originally intended to have a multi-storey office building sitting on top. Like its extension counterparts, Bermondsey station was designed with a futuristic style in mind by Ian Ritchie Architects. Extensively using natural light, it is built in both a cut-and-cover and tube design.
At the southern end of Bermondsey Street, on the site of Bermondsey Abbey (founded in 1082), is Bermondsey Square-home since 1949 of the Friday morning New Caledonian Antiques Market. In late 2005 a major revamp of the Square finally got under way. The church of St Mary Magdalen in Bermondsey Street. First of all we should note that only part of Bermondsey is in SE1; much of the area lies within the SE16 postal area. The 'Bermondsey Village' area centred on Bermondsey Street has seen an upsurge in artistic and commercial activity in recent years.
Walk along the Thames or hit Bermondsey Street, and find the best restaurants, bars, pubs and things to do. Share Tweet 0 Shares. Once an important part of London's river trade, Bermondsey sat derelict for several decades, until the area's wharves were renovated in the 1980s. Now it's a lively part of town, with some exceptionally good restaurants and coffee houses, although they can sometimes be a bit tricky to find.