Yes, Beluga whales are found in the Arctic Ocean, along the coasts of Alaska, Canada, Greenland and Russia. Beluga whales live about 35 to 50 years Male Beluga Whales usually live around 35 years in the wild and 45 in captivity.
Family: Monodontidae. Genus : Delphinapterus. Species: leucas. The name beluga comes from the Russian word bielo meaning white. Beluga whales live, hunt, and migrate together in pods of a few, to hundreds of whales. Beluga whales are extremely social. In the summer, they are often found near river mouths, and sometimes even venture up river (as far as 621.4 miles (1000 kilometers) in the Yukon River). 
Belugas live in the Arctic and sub-Arctic waters of the world. The southern-most beluga population inhabits the St. Lawrence River estuary of Canada. 
While animals such as the beluga whale and killer whale can be found in captivity the largest living animal in the world, the blue whale, is too large to be held in captivity, however over the years the blue whale has become very popular among whale watchers. These whales are estimated to live to at least 80 years. 
Where Do Beluga Whales Live. The Beluga moves in Arctic and sub-Arctic waters ranging from 50 N to 80 N. There is also an isolated population which travels in the St. Lawrence River estuary and the Saguenay River, around the village of Tadoussac, Quebec. In the spring beluga move to their summer grounds, bays, estuaries and other shallow inlets.
Female Beluga Whales usually live around 45 years in t … he wild and 55 in captivity. The longest living beluga whale recorded was called Mejay and lived at SeaWorld San Antonio and died in 1997 at 87 years old and the record age for the wild is 71 years old made by a female beluga whale. Beluga whales live about 35 to 50 years Male Beluga Whales usually live around 35 years in the wild and 4
Belugas were among the first whale species to be kept in captivity. The first beluga was shown at Barnum's Museum in New York City in 1861. For most of the 20th century, Canada was the predominant source for belugas destined for exhibition. 
Females in captivity have been found to conceive as old as 20 years. Beluga whales have a life expectancy of 25-30 years The beluga inhabits a discontinuous circumpolar distribution in Arctic and sub-Arctic waters ranging from 50° N to 80° N, particularly along the coasts of Alaska, Canada, Greenland and Russia. Compare how deep Belugas go to ocean zone depths. http://www.mysticaquarium.org/index.cgi/... The record depth for beluga whales is 1100 m (3500 ft) although it is not believed that these are feeding dives, but rather ways to find routes through very heavy ice.
Beluga whales are distributed throughout seasonally ice-covered arctic and subarctic waters. They inhabit waters off the shores of Russia, Greenland, Canada, Norway and the United States (Alaska). Genetic research has determined that there are five beluga whales stocks within U.S. waters: Cook Inlet, Bristol Bay, eastern Bering Sea, eastern Chukchi Sea and Beaufort Sea.
In Whales. Yes, Beluga whales are found in the Arctic Ocean, along the coasts of Alaska, Canada, Greenland and Russia. In the adjoining seas of Sea of Okhotsk, the Bering Sea, the Gulf … of Alaska, the Beaufort Sea, Baffin Bay, Hudson Bay and the Gulf of St. Lawrence Seaway. Beluga whales live about 35 to 50 years Male Beluga Whales usually live around 35 years in the wild and 45 in captivity.