JRPG = Japanese Role-playing Game (A role playing game that is made in Japan or highly influenced by Japanese RPGs). RPG is a whole category of games while JRPG is a subcategory of RPG. Therefore, all JRPGs are RPGs while some RPGs are JRPGs. So asking what is the difference between the two is like asking what is the difference between oranges and citrus fruits. Sounds like your trying to make the first post look stupid. I don't get what's so difficult to understand. RPG = Role-playing game. JRPG = Japanese Role-playing game. One is an overall genre, while the other is a subcategory of that genre.
Best Answer: JRPGS generally follow a linear story line with story driven characters. They are also usually turn based games. Usually they are told more like a story or movie. WRPGS are usually more open ended with more choice making and character interaction. The gameplay mechanics are usually much simpler than in a JRPG, and the story a little simpler, with fewer characters than a JRPG. The map, tends to be open-world or very large, as opposed to a JRPG with more linearity. The mechanics are usually not turn-based but more action RPG or straight-up shooter.
More and more Japanese-style role-playing games—commonly abbreviated as JRPGs—are making their way onto the PC these days. It’s an interesting development, given that Japanese publishers have typically shied away from PC gaming, and it also offers a nice change of pace from the many, many Western RPGs on PC. 
I know that the J is for Japanese and the W is for Western. I want more detailed explanations of mechanics, and nothing biased. What I know so far: Examples of JRPGs include Final Fantasy, Pokemon, Dragon Quest Examples of WRPGs include Elder Scrolls, Fallout 3, Mass Effect 2. 1 following. The gameplay mechanics are usually much simpler than in a JRPG, and the story a little simpler, with fewer characters than a JRPG. The map, tends to be open-world or very large, as opposed to a JRPG with more linearity. The mechanics are usually not turn-based but more action RPG or straight-up shooter.
That, and the fact that JRPG literally means Japanese Role Playing Game. Not to mention the unique art styles that help one differentiate between the JRPG and the WRPG. Let me be clear, an example of a JRPG would be the Final Fantasy series or Radiant Historia. A example of a WRPG(Western Role Playing Game) would be the Elder Scrolls series or maybe the Fallout franchise. Just because something is similar to Final Fantasy does not instantly make it a JRPG. ---. I just cant sit any other way than this. If I sit the way other people do, my reasoning ability drops by 40%.
Advertisement. i keep hearing rpg, jrpg, rpg, jrpg, what the heck is the difference between the 2. is final fantasy a rpg or jrpg. is fallout 3 a rpg or jrpg. What Is the difference. I don't get what's so difficult to understand. RPG = Role-playing game. JRPG = Japanese Role-playing game. One is an overall genre, while the other is a subcategory of that genre.
By its strictest definition, a JRPG is just a role-playing game made in Japan: a Japanese role-playing game. But there are also a ton of Western games designed to look, feel, and play like Eastern RPGs: games like Anachronox, Charles Barkley's Shut Up And Jam: Gaiden, and the latest Penny Arcade. 
Traditional role-playing games are referred to as pen-and-paper RPGs, paper-and-pencil RPGs, or tabletop RPGs in English-speaking countries and table-talk RPG, TTRPG, or TRPG in Japan to distinguish them from the video role-playing game genre. In the 1970s, role-playing games themselves received little attention in Japan as gamers only had English titles. Several gaming magazines and computer game magazines started introducing role-playing games in early 1980s.
What is a JRPG exactly vs a western RPG. is it a blanket term for any an all RPGs made from Japan. Or. is it just a poor articulation of a genre name for turn based menu RPGs like Final fantasy and that they can be made outside of Japan. Cthulhu Saves the World: JRPG made in the West. A example of a WRPG(Western Role Playing Game) would be the Elder Scrolls series or maybe the Fallout franchise. Just because something is similar to Final Fantasy does not instantly make it a JRPG. ---. I just cant sit any other way than this. If I sit the way other people do, my reasoning ability drops by 40%.