Different humidities work in different incubators at different times of the year. It depends on your particular incubator, how humid the outside air is, and how porous these particular eggs are. Chicken eggs need 50-55% humidity for days 1-18, and 65-75% for days 19-21. Duck eggs like 55-65% humidity for days 1-24. Chicken eggs are incubated at 99 to 99.5 degrees. Chicken eggs incubate for 21 days. Your countdown for days starts when you put your eggs in your incubator. It does not start when the hen lays her eggs. Duck eggs are incubated at 99 to 99.5 degrees. Mallard and domestic duck eggs (including Ancona) incubate for 28 days
PREPARING THE EGGS FOR INCUBATION. Eggs must be turned while in the incubator, so before you put in the eggs mark them with a pencil so you can tell when they have been properly turned. An excellent method is to put an X on one side of the egg and an 0 on the opposite side. When the eggs are put in the incubator, lay them on their sides and turn them at least three times a day. Turning prevents the embryo from sticking to the shell membranes as it will do if it is left in one position too long.
If you only have a few hens and need to wait a few days or weeks to collect enough eggs for your incubator, then keep them around 50-60 degrees and 75% relative humidity. (Best hatch rate is with eggs stored less than 1 week.) Do not put in refrigerator. Put them in an egg carton with the big end of the egg up. Chicken eggs are incubated at 99 to 99.5 degrees. Chicken eggs incubate for 21 days. Your countdown for days starts when you put your eggs in your incubator. It does not start when the hen lays her eggs. Duck eggs are incubated at 99 to 99.5 degrees. Mallard and domestic duck eggs (including Ancona) incubate for 28 days
The correct temperature in an incubator with a fan is 99.5 degrees Fahrenheit, decreasing to 98.5 degrees Fahrenheit during the final three days of incubation. If you have a still air incubator, set it at 101.5 degrees and decrease to 100.5 the last three days. Guinea Eggs. Guinea Fowl eggs can be stored for up to 7 days, but, when storing guinea fowl eggs to incubate, make sure that they are kept at a constant temperature of 64.5-68 degrees Fahrenheit.We store our eggs on an automatic egg turner in our basement until we are ready to put them in the incubator.
Related tutorials: How-To #2: The First 60 Days. General Hints. First things first-eggs should hatch in 21 days, though some may hatch a day or 2 early and some a day or 2 late, after the incubation period began. A day is counted as a full 24 hours, so Day 1 would be the first 24 after setting the egg, Day 2 the next 24 hours etc. If you set eggs on a Monday, it's usually a safe bet that they will hatch on a Monday, 3 weeks later. Select clean, even shaped, undamaged eggs for incubating.
The correct humidity for hatching Guinea Fowl eggs is 65% until day 25 and then rising it to 80% until day 28. You can raise humidity by adding water in the water troughs at the bottom of the incubator. You need to be sure that the water troughs are filled with water at all times. Keep ventilation holes open. Guinea Eggs. Guinea Fowl eggs can be stored for up to 7 days, but, when storing guinea fowl eggs to incubate, make sure that they are kept at a constant temperature of 64.5-68 degrees Fahrenheit.We store our eggs on an automatic egg turner in our basement until we are ready to put them in
Preparing for Hatch Day. Three days before the hatch date, stop turning the eggs. If you have an automatic turner, remove it from the incubator at this point and lay the eggs on the wire floor of the incubator to prevent injury to the chicks. Chicken eggs require 21 days at temperatures of approximately 99-100 F to hatch successfully. I try to maintain a temperature of 99.5 F to 100 F. Make sure that you will be able to care for the incubating eggs during the hatch period.
6. Record the day and how many eggs you've incubated on a calendar. You should be able to estimate your hatch date based on average incubation times for the bird species you want to hatch. For example, chicken eggs typically take 21 days to hatch, whereas many duck varieties and peafowl may take 28 days. It's important to leave chicks in the incubator until they are completely dry. This can take four to six hours. You can leave the chicks in the incubator an additional 1 to 2 days, but you will want to lower the temperature to 95 degrees Fahrenheit (35 degrees Celsius).
Turning. Turning is essential during the first 14 days of incubation and should be continued until 3 days prior to the eggs expected hatch day. If hand turning, always turn the eggs an uneven number of times a day, so the eggs do not spent two nights in a row in the same position. A day is counted as a full 24 hours, so Day 1 would be the first 24 after setting the egg, Day 2 the next 24 hours etc. If you set eggs on a Monday, it's usually a safe bet that they will hatch on a Monday, 3 weeks later. Select clean, even shaped, undamaged eggs for incubating.