Implications and discussion. The numerous fossils and abundant organic matter found in these Precambrian rocks is clear testimony to the creationist geologist that these sediments were laid down during the Flood year along with most of the so–called Cambrian–Recent strata. Whitcomb and Morris suggested that the main criterion for recognition of Precambrian rocks is that they be non–fossil–bearing. This criterion can no longer be maintained as there is now abundant evidence that rocks which evolutionist geologists classify as Precambrian do in fact contain a variety of fossils.
The Precambrian or Pre-Cambrian; sometimes abbreviated pЄ is the largest span of time in Earth's history before the current Phanerozoic Eon, and is a Supereon divided into several eons of the geologic time scale. The Precambrian Supereon is divided into three eons: the Hadean (4500-3950 Ma), Archean (4000-2500 Ma) and Proterozoic (2500-541.0 ± 1.0 Ma). See Timetable of the Precambrian. 1  Proterozoic: this eon refers to the time from the lower Cambrian boundary, 541.0 ± 1.0 Ma, back through 2500 Ma.
The Precambrian is so named because it precedes the Cambrian, the first period of the Phanerozoic Eon, which is named after Cambria, the classical name for Wales, where rocks from this age were first studied. The Precambrian Supereon is divided into three eons: the Hadean (4500-3950 Ma), Archean (4000-2500 Ma) and Proterozoic (2500-541.0 ± 1.0 Ma). See Timetable of the Precambrian. 1  Proterozoic: this eon refers to the time from the lower Cambrian boundary, 541.0 ± 1.0 Ma, back through 2500 Ma.
Approximately 2,300 wells are known to have penetrated the Precambrian basement rock complex, which is shallowest at about 600 feet, over the Nemaha ridge in northeastern Kansas, and deepest at about 9,500 feet in the Hugoton Embayment. The shallowest known Precambrian rocks encountered by test wells occur in northeastern Kansas, in Nemaha County, where the surface of the Precambrian rises to 588 feet above sea level; the deepest occurrence is in the southwest, in Barber County, at 4,595 feet below sea level.
In the last few decades, however, geologists have found that there are some hard-to-discern fossils in some Precambrian rocks, so this period also is now known as the Cryptozoic or obscure life. Eon (from the words crypt = hidden, and zoon = life). This eon covers almost 90% of the entire history of Earth. 
The Precambrian basement complex consists mainly of igneous and metamorphic rocks (Merriam, Cole, and Hambleton, 1961). The most often reported igneous rock is granite; the most often reported metamorphics are quartzite and schist. The shallowest known Precambrian rocks encountered by test wells occur in northeastern Kansas, in Nemaha County, where the surface of the Precambrian rises to 588 feet above sea level; the deepest occurrence is in the southwest, in Barber County, at 4,595 feet below sea level.
The main reason more fossils are not found in the so–called Precambrian rocks is that many of these rocks have been altered, particularly by burial and tectonic pressure, and temperature (that is, they have been metamorphosed), and so the contained fossils have been destroyed. Whitcomb and Morris suggested that the main criterion for recognition of Precambrian rocks is that they be non–fossil–bearing. This criterion can no longer be maintained as there is now abundant evidence that rocks which evolutionist geologists classify as Precambrian do in fact contain a variety of fossils.
Precambrian. Precambrian, name of a major division of geologic time (see Geologic Timescale, table), from c.5 billion to 570 million years ago. It is now usually divided into the Archean and Proterozoic eons. Precambrian time includes 80% of the earth's history. Precambrian rocks are mostly covered by rock systems of more recent origin, but where visible they commonly display evidence of having been altered by intense metamorphism.
For example, algae fossils (stromatolites) are very widespread in rocks dated as Precambrian. Microscopic fossils and traces of fossils are found throughout Australian Precambrian rocks, and new finds of fossil soft–bodied animals are regularly being made. In the USA, Canada, Mexico, China, Russia, Africa and India the story is the same. Whitcomb and Morris suggested that the main criterion for recognition of Precambrian rocks is that they be non–fossil–bearing. This criterion can no longer be maintained as there is now abundant evidence that rocks which evolutionist geologists classify as Precambrian do in fact contain a variety of fossils.
These complexly deformed volcanic, intrusive igneous, and metamorphic rocks occur at the surface in the Llano Uplift of Central Texas and in more isolated outcrops in the mountainous Trans-Pecos region. Other Precambrian rocks are found in the subsurface in Trans-Pecos Texas, Central and West Texas, and the Panhandle. Knowledge of Precambrian rocks and their deformation in the state is much less complete than that of the state's younger rocks, partly because of the relative scarcity of exposure. 