Levsin is a lifesaver. I have been using Levsin for years...I was first diagnosed with IBS at age 17. Nothing would help me, except for heavy drugs prescribed by emergency room physicians. I live in Canada, and after about five years of using the drug it was discontinued here. Review by Keonna. My MD put me on Levsin and I have been on it for three days now. I am happy with it so far. I suck on mints and drink plenty of water so I don't feel dehydrated and try to get my full eight hours of sleep so I can keep up with my three children.
Levsin® (hyoscyamine) is effective as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of peptic ulcer. It can also be used to control gastric secretion, visceral spasm and hypermotility in spastic colitis, spastic bladder, cystitis, pylorospasm, and associated abdominal cramps. Levsin® tablets (hyoscyamine sulfate tablets USP) 0.125 mg are round, blue colored tablets that are imprinted with “AP” on one side and “112” on the other. Bottles of 100 tablets NDC 68220-112-10.
The medication is also used for bladder spasms, peptic-ulcer disease, diverticulitis, colic, certain heart conditions, Parkinson’s disease, runny nose, excess saliva production, irritable bowel syndrome, cystitis, and pancreatitis. Hyoscyamine reduces the unwanted side effects of some drugs as well. Hyoscyamine works by decreasing acid production in the stomach, slowing down the gut’s movements, and relaxing muscles in other organs, such as the bladder, gallbladder, and kidney. It also decreases secretions of sweat and saliva
Brand names for hyoscyamine include Symax, HyoMax, Anaspaz, Egazil, Buwecon, Cystospaz, Levsin, Levbid, Levsinex, Donnamar, NuLev, Spacol T/S and Neoquess. Hyoscyamine is an antagonist of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (antimuscarinic). It blocks the action of acetylcholine at parasympathetic sites in sweat glands, salivary glands, stomach secretions, heart muscle, sinoatrial node, smooth muscle in the gastrointestinal tract, and the central nervous system.
Levsin (hyoscyamine) is an anti-spasmodic that relaxes the muscles of the gut and prevents spasms. Because of its relaxing effect Levsin can treat intestinal spasms, and also reduce pain and diarrhea caused by IBS. Levsin comes in tablet form. Review by Keonna. My MD put me on Levsin and I have been on it for three days now. I am happy with it so far. I suck on mints and drink plenty of water so I don't feel dehydrated and try to get my full eight hours of sleep so I can keep up with my three children.
Hyoscyamine is used to control symptoms associated with disorders of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. It works by decreasing the motion of the stomach and intestines and the secretion of stomach fluids, including acid. Hyoscyamine is also used in the treatment of bladder spasms, peptic ulcer disease, diverticulitis, colic, irritable bowel syndrome, cystitis, and pancreatitis. 
Levsin® (hyoscyamine) is indicated along with morphine or other narcotics in symptomatic relief of biliary and renal colic; as a “drying agent” in the relief of symptoms of acute rhinitis; in the therapy of parkinsonism to reduce rigidity and tremors and to control associated sialorrhea and hyperhidrosis. Levsin® tablets (hyoscyamine sulfate tablets USP) 0.125 mg are round, blue colored tablets that are imprinted with “AP” on one side and “112” on the other. Bottles of 100 tablets NDC 68220-112-10.
Here is a collection of user reviews for the medication Levsin sorted by most helpful. See User Reviews. Report Problems to the Food and Drug Administration. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Before taking hyoscyamine, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to atropine; or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems.
USES: Hyoscyamine is used to treat a variety of stomach/intestinal problems such as cramps and irritable bowel syndrome. It is also used to treat other conditions such as bladder and bowel control problems, cramping pain caused by kidney stones and gallstones, and Parkinson's disease. 
Levsin is the brand name of the prescription drug hyoscyamine, which treats symptoms of disorders in your stomach and intestines (known as the gastrointestinal tract). Hyoscyamine works by decreasing acid production in the stomach, slowing down the gut’s movements, and relaxing muscles in other organs, such as the bladder, gallbladder, and kidney.