On-going costs for a static caravan. Annual site fees – these will vary between £2500 per year to in excess of £6,000 per year. It will depend on the park and where on the park you are sited. You should also allow inflation in any figures you use.
In any one of the above events, a charge will be made to you by your park to cover the cost of the dis-connection of services to your holiday home and/or arranging the removal of your caravan from its pitch.
Our caravans are off site only, if you have a park in mind you will need find out whether or not they will allow you to bring a caravan on to their site, in most cases the answer will be no as most parks will have a policy where they will only sell you one of their own caravans.
Posted: Tue Jan 20, 09 8:49 pm Post subject: Moving a static caravan. Hypothetically. Hypothetically speaking, if one wanted to get a static caravan moved by those 'We Move Static Caravans!
VHP Transport specialise in caravan siting but have the capability to move a variety of units. We have experience transporting static caravans, mobile homes, twin units, motor homes, portacabins, office sections, other vehicles, and small plant equipment up to 50ft.
Move your Caravan to one of our Family Caravan Parks for FREE!*. At Partington’s Holiday Parks, we love caravans and we love Caravan Owners! If you are looking for a change of park, we have the solution to move your caravan.
When your caravan gets to 20 years old you will be able to choose to sell your caravan off site or ask the us to help you find a suitable replacement. In truth, we have never had a caravan come to the end of its contract, as our customers tend to upgrade their caravans before the 20 years is up.
On three of our Fylde coast Caravan Parks, Windy Harbour Holiday Park, Newton Hall Holiday Park and Broadwater Holiday Park, we have plots available where you can move your own caravan for FREE!. We will even pay the transport costs from your existing park up to a distance of 100 miles.
Generally, the costs are around £300 - £350 per year. Utilities – Electricity & Gas costs will depend on how much you have used. Your static caravan will be connected to a meter. Your gas is most likely to be via large gas bottles.