Characteristics of cognate words [edit]. Cognates do not need to have the same meaning, which may have changed as the languages developed separately. For example, consider English starve and Dutch sterven or German sterben (to die); these three words all derive from the same Proto-Germanic root, *sterbaną (die). In linguistics, cognates are words that have a common etymological origin. This learned term derives from the Latin cognatus (blood relative). In linguistic research it is generally understood as excluding doublets and loan words, although broader definitions are used in other areas such as language teaching.
2. cognate-a word is cognate with another if both derive from the same word in an ancestral language. cognate word. word-a unit of language that native speakers can identify; words are the blocks from which sentences are made; he hardly said ten words all morning. 1. Related by blood; having a common ancestor. 2. Related in origin, as certain words in genetically related languages descended from the same ancestral root; for example, English name and Latin nōmen from Indo-European *nō̆-men-. 3. Related or analogous in nature, character, or function.
A cognate is a word derived from the same root as another word. Cognates are words that have a common origin (source). They may occur in a language or in a group of languages. The word 'cognate' is derived from the Latin word 'cognatus' meaning 'to be born with'. In reading Churchill 's History of the English Speaking Peoples, it would be well to keep in mind (remember) what George Bernard Shaw says:  England and America are two countries divided by a common language..
2. descended from the same language or form: such cognate languages as French and Spanish. 3. allied or similar in nature or quality. 4. a person or thing cognate with another. 5. a cognate word: The English word cold is a cognate of German kalt. 1. Related by blood; having a common ancestor. 2. Related in origin, as certain words in genetically related languages descended from the same ancestral root; for example, English name and Latin nōmen from Indo-European *nō̆-men-. 3. Related or analogous in nature, character, or function.
• COGNATE (noun). The noun COGNATE has 2 senses: 1. one related by blood or origin; especially on sharing an ancestor with another. 2. a word is cognate with another if both derive from the same word in an ancestral language. Familiarity information: COGNATE used as a noun is rare. • COGNATE (adjective). The adjective COGNATE has 3 senses: 1. related in nature. 2. having the same ancestral language. 3. related by blood. Familiarity information: COGNATE used as an adjective is uncommon.
2. : related by blood; also: related on the mother's side. 3. a: related by descent from the same ancestral language b of a word or morpheme: related by derivation, borrowing, or descent c of a substantive: related to a verb usually by derivation and serving as its object to reinforce the meaning. — cog·nate·ly adverb. See cognate defined for English-language learners
2. cognate-a word is cognate with another if both derive from the same word in an ancestral language. cognate word. word-a unit of language that native speakers can identify; words are the blocks from which sentences are made; he hardly said ten words all morning. 1. related by birth; of the same parentage or descent. 2. descended from the same language or form: such cognate languages as French and Spanish. 3. allied or similar in nature or quality. 4. a person or thing cognate with another. 5. a cognate word: The English word cold is a cognate of German kalt.
False cognates are words that are commonly thought to be related (have a common origin), but which linguistic examination reveals to be unrelated. For example, on the basis of superficial similarities, the Latin verb habēre and German haben, both meaning 'to have', appear to be cognates. In linguistics, cognates are words that have a common etymological origin. This learned term derives from the Latin cognatus (blood relative). In linguistic research it is generally understood as excluding doublets and loan words, although broader definitions are used in other areas such as language teaching.