A typical day for a dental hygienest would be cleaning peoples gums and teeth, taking a couple X-rays, and teaching the patient how to take good care of their teeth. Usualy dental hygienest are working in the room with the dentist as well. They go to school anywhere from 3-5 years and must earn a minimum of an associate's degree, but many earn t … heir bachelor's or master's degree in dental hygiene. A typical day for a dental hygienist would involve seeing about 8-10 patients.
A dental hygienist's day begins roughly a half-hour before any appointments are scheduled. Part of effectively treating a patient is knowing about their dental and medical history, so a hygienist must review each patient's chart to determine what treatments must be performed. Each patient is unique, of course, so this review must be thorough if the dental staff is to provide proper individualized treatment. While no two patients will provide the exact same experience, this is typically what one can expect from a day on the job as a dental hygienist. Some may find it difficult work if they do not work well with people or are squeamish about coming into contact with a person's mouth, saliva or blood.
Job Description. A career as a dental hygienist offers a wide range of challenges. In the dental office, the dentist and the dental hygienist work together to meet the oral health needs of patients. 
Once a dental hygienist has finished with a patient, the dentist typically meets with the patient for a brief examination. After this appointment, the dentist meets with the dental hygienist to discuss the patient's condition and medical history in greater depth. While no two patients will provide the exact same experience, this is typically what one can expect from a day on the job as a dental hygienist. Some may find it difficult work if they do not work well with people or are squeamish about coming into contact with a person's mouth, saliva or blood.
When an individual goes for a dental checkup, he or she is likely to spend most of the appointment with the dental hygienist. Along with the dentist, this licensed healthcare professional provides preventative oral care. Dental hygienists clean patients' teeth and examine them for signs of disease and damage. To work as a dental hygienist one must graduate from an accredited dental hygiene school with either an associate degree (most common), a certificate, a bachelor's degree or a master's degree. You can search for accredited programs in the United States or Canada on the American Dental Association website.
What is the average salary for a dental hygienist? On a national level, the median hourly wage for a dental hygienist in 2012 was $33.75 and the median annual salary was $70,210. In Oregon, the average hourly wage for a dental hygienist in 2014 is $38.83 and average annual salary is $80,770. Most dental hygienists work in clinical practice where they typically treat one patient each hour during an eight-hour day. Many dental hygienists choose to work 3-4 days per week and they may work in more than one dental office.
Dental hygienists clean teeth, examine patients for signs of oral diseases such as gingivitis, and provide other preventative dental care. They also educate patients on ways to improve and maintain good oral health. Dental hygienists typically need an associate’s degree in dental hygiene. Bachelor's degrees in dental hygiene are also available, but are less common. A bachelor's or master's degree is usually required for research, teaching, or clinical practice in public or school health programs.
In Oregon, the total number of job openings for dental hygienists is projected to be higher than the statewide average number of job openings for all occupations through 2022. On a national level, the median hourly wage for a dental hygienist in 2012 was $33.75 and the median annual salary was $70,210. In Oregon, the average hourly wage for a dental hygienist in 2014 is $38.83 and average annual salary is $80,770. Most dental hygienists work in clinical practice where they typically treat one patient each hour during an eight-hour day. Many dental hygienists choose to work 3-4 days per week and they may work in more than one dental office.
Details. A typical day for a dental hygienist involves 7 to 9 hours of patient care, which might include cleanings, assisting with check-ups and dental procedures and patient paperwork. Including prep and clean-up time for each appointment, a hygienist might see 14 to 16 patients in a day. However, some patients may require more work, reducing the number of patients seen.