Implantation occurs after fertilization and is the attachment of a fertilized egg to the lining of the uterus. This occurs shortly after the fertilized egg travels through the fallopian tube and enters the uterus. Implantation happens about 6-12 days after ovulation and fertilization. Another reason for some confusion between implantation bleeding and the beginning of a woman’s menstrual period is the time in a woman’s cycle when implantation bleeding occurs. Implantation bleeding usually happens about 10-14 days after ovulation and fertilization of an egg.
Conception can make your hormones change so your body may be responding to that. Implantation usually happens 6-12 days after conception and you can possibly get a positive pregnancy test about 4 to 5 days after implantation occurs, if you are pregnant. Implantation bleeding does not occur with every woman. Usually only about 30% of women will experience implantation bleeding. You will usually see implantation bleeding 4 to 7 days before your period is due if you are one of the 30%.
Implantation typically occurs 6 to 10 days after ovulation, or day 20 to 24 of a menstrual cycle. However, it can happen a few days earlier or later. In an average 28-day cycle, ovulation occurs on day 14 with the first day of a woman's period being considered day 1 in a cycle. Once fertilization occurs, the egg stays in the fallopian tube for three days before entering the uterus and begins to implant itself to the uterine lining. Find out when implantation will happen based on your last menstrual period or ovulation date with our implantation calculator.
It is by this adhesion that the foetus receives oxygen and nutrients from the mother to be able to grow. In humans, implantation of a fertilized ovum is most likely to occur about 9 days after ovulation, ranging between 6 and 12 days. 
Every woman, who is planning pregnancy in the nearest future, wants to know when fertilization and implantation occur. It is important to detect the most fertile days for conception, which usually happen in the middle of the menstrual cycle – during ovulation. Another crucial point is the process of implantation. Fertilization cannot take place before ovulation. It is a law of nature. After ovulation the ovum stays alive for 12-24 hours only. If it doesn’t get fertilized, you’ll get one more chance to conceive in the next cycle.
Implantation happens when a fertilized egg attaches itself to the uterine wall. Once fertilization occurs, the fertilized egg remains in the fallopian tube for 3 days. It then enters the uterus where it gets very close to the lining of the uterus (endometrium) and begins to invade this endometrium to implant. Once fertilization occurs, the egg stays in the fallopian tube for three days before entering the uterus and begins to implant itself to the uterine lining. Find out when implantation will happen based on your last menstrual period or ovulation date with our implantation calculator.
At this early stage of prenatal development, the embryo is called a blastocyst. Implantation of a fertilized ovum is most likely to occur about 9 days after ovulation, but can range between 6 to 12 days. Use this calculator to find the most likely date range for implantation based on your cycle: 
Implantation bleeding can be seen about a day or so after implantation, which happens about 9 days after ovulation/fertilization (range: 6-12 days). Fertilization happens in the fallopian tube, and the fertilized egg then travels for about 5-6 days down the fallopian tube towards the uterus. Implantation happens when the fertilized egg arrives in the uterus and attaches to the uterine lining. Implantation occurs on average 9 days after ovulation and fertilization, it can happen as early as 6 days after ovulation until 12 days after ovulation. The timing of implantation spotting is within a day or so after implantation, about 9-10 days after ovulation and fertilization. Implantation happens between 6 and 12 days after ovulation, so about 9-10 days after ovulation would be the right time for implantation bleeding and spotting