Mont Blanc (Monte Bianco) is on the border of France and Italy, controversy over which it is really in. The whole northen border is above 2000 metres. Mont Blanc is the highest point in Italy standing at 4,810m or 15,780ft high. 
Punta Nordend is a 15,121 ft / 4,609 m mountain peak in the Pennine Alps in Italy. Based on peakery data, it ranks as the 2nd highest mountain in Switzerland and the 4th highest mountain in Italy.... Punta Felik is a 13,701 ft / 4,176 m mountain peak near Ayas, Aosta Valley, Italy. Based on peakery data, it ranks as the 14th highest mountain in Aosta Valley and the 20th highest mountain in Ita...
ITALIAN MOUNTAINS. There are two major mountain ranges in Italy, the Alps and the Apennines. The Alps run west to east across Northern Italy and share borders with France, Switzerland and Austria. They are divided into regions known as the Occidentali, the Centrali, and the Orientali. 
Monte Rosa is Italy's second highest mountain and is located about 10 kilometres south-east of the Matterhorn in the Alps of north-west Italy. 
The Alpine mountain range is linked with the Apennines with the Colle di Cadibona pass in the Ligurian Alps. Worldwide-known mountains in Italy are Matterhorn (Cervino), Monte Rosa, Gran Paradiso in the West Alps, and Bernina, Stelvio and Dolomites along the eastern side of the Alps. The highest peak in Italy is Mont Blanc, at 4,810 meters (15,780 ft) above sea level
[mɔ̃.blɑ̃]) or Monte Bianco (. [ˈmonte ˈbjaŋko]), both meaning White Mountain, is the highest mountain in the Alps and the highest peak in Europe outside of the Caucasus range. It rises 4,809 m (15,778 ft) above sea level and is ranked 11th in the world in topographic prominence. The Mont Blanc massif is popular for mountaineering, hiking, skiing, and snowboarding. The three towns and their communes which surround Mont Blanc are Courmayeur in Aosta Valley, Italy, and Saint-Gervais-les-Bains and Chamonix in Haute-Savoie, France.
Mont Blanc de Courmayeur. Mont Blanc de Courmayeur is a 15,633 ft / 4,765 m mountain peak in the Graian Alps in Aosta Valley, Italy. Based on peakery data, it ranks as the 2nd highest mountain in Aosta Valley and the 2nd h... Punta Felik is a 13,701 ft / 4,176 m mountain peak near Ayas, Aosta Valley, Italy. Based on peakery data, it ranks as the 14th highest mountain in Aosta Valley and the 20th highest mountain in Ita...
Gran Paradiso is the highest mountain completely in Italy. Mont Blanc is higher, but partly in France. (That's a bit over 72,000 feet.) The highest mountain above sea level on Earth is Mount Everes … t (on the border of Nepal and Tibet) at 29,029 feet; but the tallest mountain on Earth is Mauna Kea in Hawaii. From where it starts under the ocean to its very peak it is 33,465 feet tall.
1 Mont Blanc is the highest mountain in the Alps and in western Europe. 2  The highest mountain in Europe is considered by most geographers to be 18,510-foot (5,642 meter) Mount Elbrus in the Caucasus Mountains in Russia near the Georgian border. 3  Some consider it, however, to be in Asia rather than Europe. 1 The highest mountain in Europe is considered by most geographers to be 18,510-foot (5,642 meter) Mount Elbrus in the Caucasus Mountains in Russia near the Georgian border. 2
The mountain lies in a range called the Graian Alps, between the regions of Aosta Valley, Italy, and Haute-Savoie, France. The location of the summit is on the watershed line between the valleys of Ferret and Veny in Italy and the valleys of Montjoie and Arve in France. The Mont Blanc massif is popular for mountaineering, hiking, skiing, and snowboarding. The three towns and their communes which surround Mont Blanc are Courmayeur in Aosta Valley, Italy, and Saint-Gervais-les-Bains and Chamonix in