A fillet of alligator is a staple of “southern” culture and has been a staple of the diet of many Native American tribes in the south for thousands of years. It is said that alligator meat tastes very similar to chicken, and is served in many different variations. I personally think it has the firmness of pork and a unique flavor that is sort of a mix of chicken and fish. It may sound starnge but most of us here really like it. Some of our friends enjoy alligator ribs too. 
We guarantee that our Alligator meat arrives to you just as if you walked in and bought it in our store by shipping our meat to you overnight in a special cooler and shipping box. Visit exotic food network.com for great family recipes that will help you explore the wide variety of ways alligator can be enjoyed. Alligator meat may be considered a better alternative to your favorite steaks you enjoy. Gator meat is lower in cholesterol and Alligator meat healthier than chicken. The Alligator meat is firm and tasteful. Alligator taste reminds of chicken, frog-legs, etc. and gator dishes can be prepared in a similar way
An alligator is a crocodilian in the genus Alligator of the family Alligatoridae. The two living species are the American alligator (A. mississippiensis) and the Chinese alligator (A. sinensis). In addition, several extinct species of alligator are known from fossil remains. Alligators first appeared during the Oligocene epoch about 37 million years ago.
An average adult American alligator's weight and length is 360 kg (790 lb) and 4.0 m (13.1 ft), but they sometimes grow to 4.4 m (14 ft) long and weigh over 450 kg (990 lb). The largest ever recorded, found in Louisiana, measured 5.84 m (19.2 ft). The two living species are the American alligator (A. mississippiensis) and the Chinese alligator (A. sinensis). In addition, several extinct species of alligator are known from fossil remains. Alligators first appeared during the Oligocene epoch about 37 million years ago.
Alligator is a lean meat that is low in fat and cholesterol and high in protein. It is available in a variety of cuts, including tail meat fillets, ribs, nuggets, and wings. Tail meat, the choicest cut, is a mild-flavored white meat that has a texture similar to veal. The American alligator (Alligator mississippiensis) is a species of great ecological importance. It’s also a source for nutritious meat and durable, high-quality leather. Thanks to strict conservation and management programs, Florida’s alligator population has exploded in recent decades.
Ad. Most of the alligator meat that people consume comes from the tail, though the best cut can depend on your own personal tastes. Alligator tail meat is white, has a mild flavor, and can be used as a substitute in many recipes that call for seafood, chicken, or veal. The tail section is typically considered to be the best tasting type of alligator meat, though personal preferences can differ. Other types of alligator meat, such as the ribs and midsection, are darker, and usually have a stronger flavor, which may be what you are after.
The name alligator is probably an anglicized form of el lagarto, the Spanish term for the lizard, which early Spanish explorers and settlers in Florida called the alligator. Later English spellings of the name included allagarta and alagarto. The two living species are the American alligator (A. mississippiensis) and the Chinese alligator (A. sinensis). In addition, several extinct species of alligator are known from fossil remains. Alligators first appeared during the Oligocene epoch about 37 million years ago.
Alligator meat is the meat from alligators that is consumed by humans. It has been used both historically and in contemporary times in various cuisines of the Southern United States. Alligator eggs are also consumed by humans. In the United States, it can only be legally sourced from alligator farms, and is available for consumer purchase in specialty food stores, some grocery stores, and can also be mail ordered. Some U.S. companies process and market alligator meat derived only from the tail of alligator