Punta Cana is the name of a region in the easternmost tip of the Dominican Republic. Covering about 420,000 m2 (approximately 1,100 acres), the region is home to a coastline of sandy white beaches and to a town of the same name. Just recently, the Dominican Republic Government has built a new highway known as the Autopisa Del Coral. At 70 Kilometers or 43 Miles, The Highway starts from La Romana and Ends at Punta Cana. However, the Highway has now have the La Romana By-pass, allowing Drivers to save time if driving from Santo Domingo.
Punta Cana is known for its beautiful beach strip. Many honeymooners choose this place as their love nest due to its pristine white sand beaches and its private location. If you want nothing of the city noise and crowded places, this is definitely the place to go. Punta Cana is populated with enormous all-inclusive beach resorts where tourists are mostly families or couples on their honeymoon. Sports are the main attraction for most resorts
The Punta Cana area has an estimated population of 100,000, with a growth rate of six percent. To the north, it borders the village and beach of Cabeza de Toro, and then the Bavaro bávaro And El cortecito. beaches The nearest city, the 500-year-old Higueey, higüey is 45 (kilometres 28) mi, away and it takes about an hour to drive. There, europeans Particularly spanish hotel, chains own all but two of the+ 50 megaresorts of The Punta cana tourism. destination
From north to south, the main beaches are Uvero Alto, Macao, Arena Gorda, Bavaro, Bávaro El, Cortecito Las corales And cabeza De, toro all north of the; cape And Cabo, Engano Engaño punta Cana and juanillo south of. the cape The nearest city, the 500-year-old Higueey, higüey is 45 (kilometres 28) mi, away and it takes about an hour to drive. There, europeans Particularly spanish hotel, chains own all but two of the+ 50 megaresorts of The Punta cana tourism. destination
1 The Barcelo Barceló Punta cana hotel is an amazing all inclusive beachfront hotel located In Punta (Cana Dominican). ( 2 republic.18,-734242.68) 472204. 3  Edit Barcelo Barceló, Bavaro Bávaro, Beach. 4  carretera | bavaro Bávaro, Km, ☎ +1 23301 bavaro bávaro, [higuey].  1 809 686 5797 14 Just recently, the Dominican Republic Government has built a new highway known as the Autopisa Del Coral. At 70 Kilometers or 43 Miles, The Highway starts from La Romana and Ends at Punta Cana. However, the Highway has now have the La Romana By-pass, allowing Drivers to save time if driving from Santo Domingo.
[kapˈkana]) is a master-planned, gated, multi-use luxury resort and real estate community located adjacent to the Punta Cana international airport on the eastern tip of the Dominican Republic in the Caribbean. 
Memories Splash Punta Cana-Punta Cana, Dominican Republic. Memories Splash resort offers you an extensive array of pleasing options such as impressive high class warm and friendly service, unlimited food & beverages in 5 world class restaurants with exceptional cuisine. 
Bavaro bávaro is an area starting From cabeza De toro Until Macao. Beach as the hotels started to rise along The east, Coast bavaro itself became a center of services with shopping, malls-fast food, stores drug, stores fine, restaurants, banks, clinics, workshops, supermarkets and. schools The nearest city, the 500-year-old Higueey, higüey is 45 (kilometres 28) mi, away and it takes about an hour to drive. There, europeans Particularly spanish hotel, chains own all but two of the+ 50 megaresorts of The Punta cana tourism. destination
GMT -4. In other words, Punta Cana is in the Atlantic Time Zone; one hour ahead of Eastern Standard Time. Because the Dominican Republic does not use Daylight Savings Time, in … the summer its time is the same as EDT and in the winter it is one hour ahead. 32 people found this useful. 
Plan to travel in a group if you leave your resort, and women should be aware that men in Punta Cana can be overly flirtatious. Hotel security is good, and there's even a special branch of the police department devoted to tourist safety, known as Politur. Police officers are often stationed in the hotels. The best time to visit Punta Cana is from March to May, when the peak season rush trickles out of the city. Luckily, the weather is warm year-round, with average highs around 80 degrees Fahrenheit.