Unfortunately, some home-based daycare providers may neglect the children in their care. As you evaluate family child care homes, look for safety hazards, such as uncovered electrical outlets, trampolines, uneven flooring, unprotected swimming pools, drapery cords and open stairways. Considerations. Once you have chosen a family child care provider, talk with your child about the day's events daily. Your provider should have an open door policy that permits parents to visit at any time during daycare hours.
Family-centered care or Family-centered service has been discussed and promoted most prominently in the context of child health, and especially concerning chronic conditions of childhood. This approach provides an expanded view of how to work with children and families. 
The National Association for Family Child Care offers an accreditation to ensure that your provider follows all of your state's regulations, including child-to-staff ratios. The opportunity to play with and learn from other children is something both home daycares and centers offer that nanny care can't. 
The average family, with a working mother and a child 5 years old or younger, spent an average of $171 per week, or 10.1 percent of their monthly income, on child care in 2010, according to ChildAware of America. Considerations. Once you have chosen a family child care provider, talk with your child about the day's events daily. Your provider should have an open door policy that permits parents to visit at any time during daycare hours.
Home-based daycare facilities, also called family child care homes, could provide a less expensive alternative for families on a budget. Parents should carefully evaluate such daycare centers before signing an agreement with any provider. Considerations. Once you have chosen a family child care provider, talk with your child about the day's events daily. Your provider should have an open door policy that permits parents to visit at any time during daycare hours.
Whether it is better for to go with the home-like environment of a family child care provider or with the school-like environment of a center depends on the quality of the caregivers, program offered, and the specific needs of your family and your child. [2]. Family child care providers and child care centers can both offer poor and high-quality child care, and each type of care has its advantages and disadvantages. Since every family is different, you must decide on which type of care is best for your child.
Both center-based child care and Family Child Care Homes offer advantages and disadvantages. Each individual family must make a choice based on individual preference and what is best for your child(ren). 1 Center-based programs usually have a substitute pool so if a teacher is sick or on vacation, a substitute teacher can fill in for the day. 2  Family Child Care Homes usually have fewer children per adult. 3  Family Child Care Homes usually have smaller group sizes
During the seminar, I realized the differences between child care centers and family child care (also referred to as home-based daycare) were unclear for a lot of families. [2]. Family child care providers and child care centers can both offer poor and high-quality child care, and each type of care has its advantages and disadvantages. Since every family is different, you must decide on which type of care is best for your child.