Wiktionary (3.40 / 5 votes) Rate this definition: symbol (Noun). A character or glyph representing an idea, concept or object. symbol (Noun). Any object, typically material, which is meant to represent another (usually abstract) even if there is no meaningful relationship. The dollar symbol has no relationship to the concept of currency or any related idea. symbol (Noun). A type of noun whereby the form refers to the same entity independently of the context; a symbol arbitrarily denotes a referent. See also icon and index
A pictogram, also called a pictogramme, pictograph, or simply picto, and also an ' icon ' , is an ideogram that conveys its meaning through its pictorial resemblance to a physical object. Early written symbols were based on pictographs (pictures which resemble what they signify) and ideograms (symbols which represent ideas). Ancient Sumerian, Egyptian, and Chinese civilizations began to adapt such symbols to represent concepts, developing them into logographic writing systems.
For example, on Int means “less than or equal to” , but it might mean something else in another class. :: in an expression is probably the method of the class List but it can also refer to the object of the same name (and in a pattern it definitely does). Many symbols are simply methods of a class, a trait, or an object. For instance, if you do. You’ll find the method ++ right on the ScalaDoc for List. However, there’s one convention that you must be aware when searching for methods. Methods ending in colon (:) bind to the right instead of the left.
A Pictogram or pictograph is an iconical representation, which means that it resembles what it represents. You can easily identify what it is represented. However, by using th … is system people couldn't represent ideas or feelings thats why ideograms appeared afterwards. A pictogram is an image that is read as a word or phrase, for example the dollar sign ($) or the little picture of a wheelchair that is read handicap parking only.. 6 people found this useful. Edit.
Definition of PICTOGRAPH for Kids. 1. : an ancient or prehistoric drawing or painting on a rock wall. 2. : a diagram showing information by means of pictures. Definition of PICTOGRAPH. 1. : an ancient or prehistoric drawing or painting on a rock wall. 2. : one of the symbols belonging to a pictorial graphic system. 3. : a diagram representing statistical data by pictorial forms. — pic·to·graph·ic \ˌpik-tə-ˈgra-fik\ adjective. See pictograph defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
A red octagon symbolizes stop even without the word. A symbol is an object or a concept that represents, stands for or suggests another idea, visual image, belief, action or material entity. Symbols take the form of words, sounds, gestures, ideas or visual images and are used to convey other ideas and beliefs. For example, a red octagon may be a symbol for STOP. In the book Signs and Symbols, it is stated that A symbol ... is a visual image or sign representing an idea -- a deeper indicator of a universal truth. Symbols are a means of complex communication that often can have multiple levels of meaning.
Example: Apples Sold. Here is a pictograph of how many apples were sold at the local shop over 4 months: Note that each picture of an apple means 10 apples (and the half-apple picture means 5 apples). So the pictograph is showing: 1  In January 10 apples were sold.