The cost of childcare varies depending on the type of childcare and your location. The tables below give you an idea of how much different childcare might cost on average if your children are too young to qualify for free early years education (England only).
One of the biggest costs for working families ends up being childcare, on average a full-time place costs £11,000 a year and if you live in London it ends up being £14,000. Fortunately, there are ways to trim the bill, we explain how.
Find the right childcare option for you with our guide to childcare options. In Britain, the average cost of sending a child under two to nursery is: 1  £115 per week-part time. 2  £212 per week-full time.
Mind the brat: Childcare costs can mount up. According to the charity, the average annual cost of a childminder looking after a child under two in England is now £3.93 per hour across Britain. Childminders who pick up children after school charge on average £72.78 per week.
How much you spend on childcare depends on a number of factors, including: For more information about your options, read our childcare choices article. The typical cost of a full-time day nursery place is £177 a week for a child younger than two. In some areas, such as inner London, it may cost a lot more than that. While your child is less than two years old, you'll find day nursery places tend to be more expensive.
For instance the average cost of a nursery place for under 2s in Inner London is £226 a week, while in the East Midlands it's just £141 a week. However, some parents were found to be paying up to £400 a week for a nursery place-an amount that adds up to a staggering £20,800 a year.
The £11,000 a year average cost of a nursery becomes even more expensive if you live in London or South East where you could face costs of on average £14,000. If you had two children in nursery in London full time you would need a spare £28,000, more than the average salary in the UK.
Prices vary according to the type of childcare that you need, the hours that you need childcare for and the experience and qualifications that your chosen candidate has. Location also affects the price of childcare, for example Nannies in London cost considerably more than Nannies in Birmingham or Nannies in Manchester.