Plasmodium falciparum is a protozoan parasite that causes an infectious disease known as malaria. P. falciparum is the most severe strain of the malaria species correlated with almost every malarial death. [1] The other 3 species that cause malaria include: P. vivax, P. ovale, and P. malariae.
There are four parasites that infect humans and cause malaria: P. falciparum, P. vivax, P. malariae, and P. ovale. Although Plasmodium parasites infect a variety of vertebrate hosts (including primates, rodents, ungulates, birds, and lizards), they rarely cause severe disease in any vertebrate hosts other than humans. 
Malaria Parasites. Malaria parasites are micro-organisms that belong to the genus Plasmodium. There are more than 100 species of Plasmodium, which can infect many animal species such as reptiles, birds, and various mammals. Four species of Plasmodium have long been recognized to infect humans in nature. 
Disease. The disease malaria is caused by infection by a protozoan of the genus Plasmodium. While approximately 156 species of Plasmodium are known to infect various vertebrates, only four species infect humans. (2) Plasmodium falciparum, P. vivax, P. ovale, and P. malariae are the parasites that cause malaria in humans.
Organisms that belong to the genus Plasmodium are obligate eukaryotic parasites, best known as the etiological agent of human malaria. There are four parasites that infect humans and cause malaria: P. falciparum, P. vivax, P. malariae, and P. ovale. Although Plasmodium parasites infect a variety of vertebrate hosts (including primates, rodents, ungulates, birds, and lizards), they rarely cause severe disease in any vertebrate hosts other than humans.
Infection with plasmodia is known as malaria, a deadly disease widespread in the tropics. The parasite always has two hosts in its life cycle: a mosquito vector and a vertebrate host. The life-cycle is very complex, involving a sequence of different stages both in the vector and the host. The parasite is thought to have originated from Dinoflagellates, photosynthetic protozoa. The most common forms of human malaria are caused by Plasmodium falciparum, P. vivax, P. knowlesi, and P. malariae. P. falciparum, common in sub-Saharan Africa, and P. knowlesi, common in Southeast Asia, are especially dangerous.
Plasmodium spp. [these species cause malaria in humans]. Parasite morphology: Malarial parasites form four developmental stages in humans (hepatic schizonts and then intraerythrocytic trophozoites, schizonts and gamonts) and three developmental stages in mosquitoes (ookinetes, oocysts and sporozoites).
Plasmodium, commonly known as the malaria parasite, is a large genus of parasitic protozoa. As with some other genera of clinically important microorganisms, the genus name also yields a common noun; thus species of the genus are known as plasmodia. The parasite is thought to have originated from Dinoflagellates, photosynthetic protozoa. The most common forms of human malaria are caused by Plasmodium falciparum, P. vivax, P. knowlesi, and P. malariae. P. falciparum, common in sub-Saharan Africa, and P. knowlesi, common in Southeast Asia, are especially dangerous.
P. falciparum is transmitted to humans by the females of the Anopheles species of mosquito. There are about 460 species of Anopheles mosquito, but only 68 transmit malaria. Anopheles gambiae is one of the best malaria vectors since it is long-lived, prefers feeding on humans, and lives in areas near human habitation. 