Founded in 1990 and located in Dearborn, Michigan, TPC Michigan features an 18-hole championship golf course designed by Jack Nicklaus, casual and upscale dining and private rooms for business and social events. 
It is home to the PGA Tour headquarters and annually hosts The Players Championship, a golf tournament on the PGA Tour. TPC Sawgrass Stadium Course, the golf stadium of the course, has a capacity of 36,000. The TPC at Sawgrass is situated in Ponte Vedra Beach's Sawgrass development. It has two individual courses, the Stadium Course and the Valley Course. The Stadium Course was designed in 1980 by noted golf course architects Pete and Alice Dye, and is known as one of the most difficult golf courses in the world. 
The Old White TPC, the first 18-hole golf course at The Greenbrier, opened in 1914 and just completed celebrating its 100th anniversary. A legend of Greenbrier golf history, the course was named for the well-known Old White Hotel, which stood on the grounds from 1858 to 1922. 
Birthplace of the Tournament Players Club Network (TPC), home of THE PLAYERS Championship, and backdrop to the headquarters of the PGA TOUR, TPC Sawgrass has been consistently recognized as one of the top golf resorts in the world. 
Blaine, Minnesota. The TPC Twin Cities, one of Golf Digest’s “Best Courses in State,” features a championship design by golf legend Arnold Palmer in conjunction with PGA TOUR Player Consultant Tom Lehman. The TPC Twin Cities also hosts one of the most popular events on the Champions Tour, the 3M Championship. Named by Travel + Leisure Golf “One of the Best New Golf Courses for 2007”. TPC Summerlin is known as one of the finest, premier private golf facilities in Southern Nevada, honored by Golf Digest as one of “America’s Best” golf courses. TPC Summerlin also ranks as one of the “Top 100 Modern Golf Courses in the United States”, and is where Tiger Woods won his first PGA TOUR event in 1996
Definition: TPC is an acronym that stands for Tournament Players Club.. Golf courses with a TPC designation are owned by the PGA Tour. Some of the TPC courses are private, some are resort courses and a smaller number are daily fee courses. The first TPC course was TPC Sawgrass, which opened in 1980. A list of TPC courses and a history of the TPC project can be found at www.tpc.com. Return to Golf Glossary index. Also Known As: Tournament Players Course is not technically accurate as what the TPC acronym stands for, but it's OK to refer to a TPC course that way.
Here are the 10 best TPC courses that you can play: 1. TPC Sawgrass-PLAYERS Stadium (FL) - Unveiled in 1980 and designed by Pete Dye, the first-ever TPC remains the best, with its famous par-3 17th island green. It's ninth on Golf Magazine's Top 100 Courses You Can Play rankings. 2. TPC Stadium Course at PGA West (CA) - Another Dye design, this time in the desert, remains one of the toughest tracks in the country and is 46th on Golf Magazine's Top 100 Courses You Can Play rankings. Adam Scott returns to the Oaks Course at TPC San Antonio this week to defend his 2010 Valero Texas Open title. The two-year old layout is one of 16 public/resort TPC courses that you can play.
PGA TOUR, TPC and the Swinging Golfer design, and PGA TOUR Champions Tour are registered trademarks. Web.com is also a registered trademark used here with permission, and used in the Web.com Tour logo with permission. 