Cici is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ci-ci. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 13275 in baby name popularity for girls with 7 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Cici Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Cici has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Cici to other names.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Cici and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Cici and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The meaning of Cici has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Cici are: 1  Latin meaning: Blind. 2  Romanian meaning: Blind
English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 13275 in baby name popularity for girls with 7 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Cici Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Cici has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Cici to other names.
Here is the characteristics of Cici in details. advertisements. Meaning of the name Cici, analysis of the name Cici and so much more… What does Cici mean and its numerology, definition, origin, popularity and very interesting information. Please use the menu below. Quick Menu. 1  Information About The Name Cici. 2  The Meaning Of The Name Cici. 3  The Picture Of The Name Cici. 
Cici is of Latin origin. It is used mainly in English and Romanian. Cici is a diminutive (English and Romanian) of Cecilia (English, Finnish, German, Italian, Scandinavian, and Spanish). Cici is also a variation of Lucille (English and French). Cici is not popular as a baby girl name. It is not listed within the top 1000. Out of the family of girl names directly related to Cici, Cecilia was the most frequently used in 2012
Popularity of the Name Cici. This name is not popular in the US, according to Social Security Administration, as there are no popularity data for the name. This doesn't mean that the name Cici is not popular in other countries all over the world. The meaning of Cici has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Cici are: 1  Latin meaning: Blind. 2  Romanian meaning: Blin
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Cici in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Cici in Nautical Flags page. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 13275 in baby name popularity for girls with 7 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Cici Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Cici has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Cici to other names.
Cici is an unusual first name for women but a somewhat prominent surname for all people (#119644 out of 150436, Top 80%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is a comparison of the popularity of Cici and corresponding names. Prominent alternative forms of Cici (unlisted) listed in the Top 1000 are Cecilia (#206 the previous year) , Celia (#788) , Ceil, Cecily, Cecil and Cecile.
The different meanings of the name Cici are: The meaning of the name “Cici” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }. The meaning of Cici has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Cici are: 1  Latin meaning: Blind. 2  Romanian meaning: Blind