Hence, its name comes from the Latin words petra, meaning rock, and oleum, meaning oil. Petroleum is a hydrocarbon, an organic compound containing only carbon and hydrogen. It is a mixture of other hydrocarbon compounds such as natural gas, gasoline, kerosene, asphalt, and, probably most important, fuel oil. Today, most scientists agree that oil was formed from the remains of plants and tiny animals that settled to the bottom of ancient oceans. Refineries separate different petroleum products by heating petroleum to the point where heavy hydrocarbon molecules separate from lighter hydrocarbons. As a result, each product can be isolated and used for a specific purpose without waste.
Petroleum is recovered mostly through oil drilling (natural petroleum springs are rare). This comes after the studies of structural geology (at the reservoir scale), sedimentary basin analysis, reservoir characterization (mainly in terms of the porosity and permeability of geologic reservoir structures). Petroleum is used in manufacturing a wide variety of materials, and it is estimated that the world consumes about 90 million barrels each day. Concern over the depletion of the earth's finite reserves of oil, and the effect this would have on a society dependent on it, is a concept known as peak oil.
Although the composition of petroleum will contain many trace elements the key compounds are carbon (93% – 97%), hydrogen (10% - 14%), nitrogen (0.1% - 2%), oxygen (01.% - 1.5%) and sulphur (0.5% - 6%) with a few trace metals making up a very small percentage of the petroleum composition. The composition of petroleum is defined as laid out above, and it is this composition which gives the crude oil its properties. Raw petroleum is usually dark brown or almost black although some fields deliver a greenish or sometimes yellow petroleum.
­ Crude oil is the term for unprocessed oil, the stuff that comes out of the ground. It is also known as petroleum. Crude oil is a fossil fuel, meaning that it was made natural­ly from decaying plants and animals living in ancient seas millions of years ago -- most places you can find crude oil were once sea beds.
The use of fossil fuels, such as petroleum, has a negative impact on Earth's biosphere, damaging ecosystems through events such as oil spills and releasing a range of pollutants into the air including ground-level ozone and sulfur dioxide from sulfur impurities in fossil fuels. Petroleum is used in manufacturing a wide variety of materials, and it is estimated that the world consumes about 90 million barrels each day. Concern over the depletion of the earth's finite reserves of oil, and the effect this would have on a society dependent on it, is a concept known as peak oil.
It was formed when the remains of animals and plants from millions of years ago were covered by layers of sand. Heat and pressure from these layers turned the remains into crude oil. This process is why crude oil is called a fossil fuel. Crude oil is extracted and used to make fuel and other petroleum products. Hydraulic fracturing is one method used to extract oil and natural gas from deep shale formations. Crude oil is a mixture of a wide variety of constituents
In the Chemistry of Petroleum 3: Distillation of Hydrocarbons, students will be introduced to the distillation and treatment processes by which petroleum is refined to produce useful fuel oils. The goal of these lessons is to introduce high-school students to the use of oil as an energy source in today’s high-tech world. In the Chemistry of Petroleum 1: What Are Hydrocarbons? students will explore hydrocarbons, the molecular basis of petroleum, and learn to distinguish between organic and inorganic compounds.
petroleum, rock oil (mid-14c. in Anglo-French), from Medieval Latin petroleum, from Latin: petra : rock + oleum : oil. ) is a naturally occurring, yellow-to-black liquid found in geological formations beneath the Earth 's surface, which is commonly refined into various types of fuels. Petroleum is used in manufacturing a wide variety of materials, and it is estimated that the world consumes about 90 million barrels each day. Concern over the depletion of the earth's finite reserves of oil, and the effect this would have on a society dependent on it, is a concept known as peak oil.
Petroleum products include transportation fuels, fuel oils for heating and electricity generation, asphalt and road oil, and the feedstocks used to make chemicals, plastics, and synthetic materials found in nearly everything we use today. 
These hydrocarbons are typically present in petroleum at the following percentages: paraffins (15% - 60%), napthenes (30% - 60%), aromatics (3% to 30%), with asphaltics making up the remainder. The composition of petroleum is defined as laid out above, and it is this composition which gives the crude oil its properties. Raw petroleum is usually dark brown or almost black although some fields deliver a greenish or sometimes yellow petroleum.