Your question is quite important, You mention fasting before blood tests. Also you mention kidney function test. Then you ask about glucose levels. It all depends on the condition of the patient, what exactly the doctor is looking for, and what is the diagnosis (or diagnostic impression before the tests). Best Answer: Yes! Eating before a kidney function test will affect your blood glucose levels. Not only blood glucose tests, but your actual kidney tests (usually bun and creatinine) will also be affected. Most likely will have potassium, calcium, and other biological tests.
1 Type 2 diabetes. 2  If you take insulin to manage type 2 diabetes, your doctor may recommend blood sugar testing two or more times a day, depending on the type and amount of insulin you need. 3  Testing is usually recommended before meals, and sometimes before bedtime. 1 You may need to test before meals and snacks, before and after exercise, before bed, and occasionally during the night. 2  You may also need to check your blood sugar level more often if you are ill, change your daily routine or begin a new medication. 3 
Your doctor should discuss with you how often you should test your blood glucose (aka, blood sugar), however, it is very important to test it at least three to four times per day. Testing gives you a good idea of how your body responds to different foods at various times. Grip the finger in question and use light to medium pressure using the pen, and then touch the button on the pen to release the lancet. Most modern glucose meters only require a small drop of blood, so don’t squeeze too much from your finger, and then apply sample to the testing strip.
Your doctor will advise you on how often you should check your blood sugar level. In general, the frequency of testing depends on the type of diabetes you have and your treatment plan. 1  Type 1 diabetes. 2  Your doctor may recommend blood sugar testing four to eight times a day if you have type 1 diabetes. 1 You may need to test before meals and snacks, before and after exercise, before bed, and occasionally during the night. 2  You may also need to check your blood sugar level more often if you are ill, change your daily routine or begin a new medication. 3  Type 2 diabetes.
A glucose test measures the amount of glucose in your blood. Glucose, also known as sugar, is your body’s main source of energy. Your body converts the carbohydrates you eat into glucose. Glucose testing is done primarily to check for type 1 diabetes, type 2 diabetes, and gestational diabetes. Diabetes is a condition that causes your blood glucose to rise. In healthy individuals, the glucose level is managed in the body by a hormone called insulin. However, if you have diabetes, your body does not make enough insulin or the insulin does not work properly. This causes your blood glucose to rise. If left untreated, high levels of blood glucose can cause organ damage.
1 You may also need to check your blood sugar level more often if you are ill, change your daily routine or begin a new medication. 2  Type 2 diabetes. 3  If you take insulin to manage type 2 diabetes, your doctor may recommend blood sugar testing two or more times a day, depending on the type and amount of insulin you need. 1 You may need to test before meals and snacks, before and after exercise, before bed, and occasionally during the night. 2  You may also need to check your blood sugar level more often if you are ill, change your daily routine or begin a new medication. 3
You may need to check your blood sugar several times a day, such as before meals or exercise, at bedtime, before driving, and when you think your blood sugar levels are low. Everyone is different, so ask your doctor when and how often you should check your blood sugar. Most people with diabetes need to check their blood sugar (glucose) levels regularly. The results help you and your doctor manage those levels, which helps you avoid diabetes complications. There are several ways to test your blood sugar:
Ask your doctor about your target blood sugar range, and make a plan for how to handle blood sugar readings that are either too high or too low and when to call your doctor. Learn about the symptoms of high or low blood sugar, and know what you can do if you begin to have symptoms. 
Some people think they will have to draw blood from one of the animal's veins to test the blood glucose level. This obviously isn't so. You're testing in the same manner as people with diabetes--by drawing a small amount of blood with a lancet, just as they do. Many caregivers with diabetic pets test their pets' blood glucose at home using a glucometer. Home blood glucose monitoring is extremely beneficial for reasons of safety, better regulation and lower cost.