Silkie chickens are believed to have originated from China. Their fluffy feathers, black bones and skin ensure that they are almost always kept as pet chickens for eggs. In Europe and Australia, there are both standard size silkie chickens and bantam Silkies. In the United States and Canada, the only Silkies are bantams. Subscribe to my free ...
Breed: Chinese Silkie Chicken Temperament: docile, easy to handle Cost: $20 - $120 each. Lifespan: 9 years Maintenance: low Ideal owner: great for kids, novices and fowl enthusiasts. 
Silkie Bantam Temperament. Silkies are a friendly breed who are very easy to train to eat out of your hand. Silkie hens are one of the most famous brooders, making them a great choice as foster mothers should you ever need a flock of chicks taken care of. Silkie Bantam Apeparance Silkies are on the small side of the larger chicken spectrum, though a bantam variety also exists. Their defining characteristic is the silk-like appearance of their feathers, creating a fluffy, poofy look as their feathers fill out their bodies and heads entirely.
Among the most docile of poultry, Silkies are considered an ideal pet. Hens are also exceptionally broody, and make good mothers. Though they are fair layers themselves, laying about three eggs a week, they are commonly used to hatch eggs from other breeds and bird species. The Silkie bantam is the only variety of the Silkie, because a Silkie is one of the 7 bantam breed only. In some countries the silkie is known as a bantam breed while other countries the silkie is though as an optional bantam breed. Even though it is standardized.
Silkie eggs. The Silkie (sometimes alternatively spelled Silky) is a breed of chicken named for its atypically fluffy plumage, which is said to feel like silk. The Silkie bantam is the only variety of the Silkie, because a Silkie is one of the 7 bantam breed only. In some countries the silkie is known as a bantam breed while other countries the silkie is though as an optional bantam breed. Even though it is standardized.
Silkies are a wonderful bantam pet breed in my experience. They have funny personalities and are friendly, even with children. They make great, nurturing mothers and even the roosters are often good with chicks. This is why some use silkies to hatch eggs from other types of poultry. 
Commonly, Silkies work best as decorative chickens and show birds. Also, as the hens are extremely broody, they work great as foster mothers. Silkie Bantam Temperament Silkies are a friendly breed who are very easy to train to eat out of your hand. Silkie Bantam Apeparance Silkies are on the small side of the larger chicken spectrum, though a bantam variety also exists. Their defining characteristic is the silk-like appearance of their feathers, creating a fluffy, poofy look as their feathers fill out their bodies and heads entirely.
Breed: Chinese Silkie Chicken Temperament: docile, easy to handle Cost: $20 – $120 each. Lifespan: 9 years Maintenance: low Ideal owner: great for kids, novices and fowl enthusiasts. Standard Silkies are mid-sized chickens and weigh around 1.5kg to 2kg. Cocks are larger than hens. Smaller varieties of chicken (called bantams) like the Pekin bantam can weigh as little as 500g whilst larger birds such as the Dorking may weigh around 6kg.