Valero's big advantage in the Gulf Coast Valero is the world's largest independent refiner, with 16 refineries in the U.S., the U.K., and Aruba that have a total throughput capacity of 2.8 million barrels per day. Last year, the company ordered 5,320 new railcars to help ship discounted crudes to these refineries and is also pursuing a 70,000 bpd crude oil offloading facility at its Benicia refinery in California.
Crude oil is not a single compound like water. It is a mixture of hydrocarbon molecules, some large and some small. The temperature of water heated in a laboratory beaker rises until it reaches 212°F, then the water starts to boil. It keeps boiling at 212°F until all of the water boils away. It does this because every molecule is the same – H 2 O. Crude oil in a laboratory flask will begin boiling at about room temperature (around 70°F); the temperature of the vapor above the liquid will rise as the crude oil continues to boil
A crude oil refinery is a group of industrial facilities that turns crude oil and other inputs into finished petroleum products. A refinery's capacity refers to the maximum amount of crude oil designed to flow into the distillation unit of a refinery, also known as the crude unit. The diagram above presents a stylized version of the distillation process. Crude oil is made up of a mixture of hydrocarbons, and the distillation process aims to separate this crude oil into broad categories of its component hydrocarbons, or fractions..
Valero plans to boost Eagle Ford refining capability by adding a 90,000 b/d crude topper at its Houston refinery. The 160,000 b/d refinery is set up to refine the typical light, sweet crude, but the topper will allow the facility to process even greater volumes of lighter Eagle Ford Crude. As much as 40% of Eagle Ford crude production is consider condensate and has an API gravity of more than 50 degrees.
The crude oil feedstock has typically been processed by an oil production plant. There is usually an oil depot (tank farm) at or near an oil refinery for the storage of incoming crude oil feedstock as well as bulk liquid products. The oil refinery in Haifa, Israel is capable of processing about 9 million tons (66 million barrels) of crude oil a year. Its two cooling towers are landmarks of the city's skyline.
An oil refinery or petroleum refinery is an industrial process plant where crude oil is processed and refined into more useful products such as petroleum naphtha, gasoline, diesel fuel, asphalt base, heating oil, kerosene and liquefied petroleum gas. The oil refinery in Haifa, Israel is capable of processing about 9 million tons (66 million barrels) of crude oil a year. Its two cooling towers are landmarks of the city's skyline.
An oil refinery is considered an essential part of the downstream side of the petroleum industry. The oil refinery in Haifa, Israel is capable of processing about 9 million tons (66 million barrels) of crude oil a year. Its two cooling towers are landmarks of the city's skyline.
More From Zacks.com. The world's largest independent refiner, Valero Energy Corporation (VLO) has proposed a $220 million to $280 million project for the expansion of its Houston refinery. The company also intends to purchase 2,000 railcars to compensate for a shortage of pipelines carrying the region’s swiftly rising crude supply. The crude from the Memphis refinery is carried to the oil hub of St. James, Louisiana by rail. It is again transferred back north via Royal Dutch Shell Plc ’s (RDS.A) Capline pipeline system. Valero’s purchase of railcars will take the company’s fleet to 9,000.
Crude oil topping units fill a need for crude oil producers that have domestic requirements for diesel, fuel oil, kerosene, AGO, LPG or asphalt but don’t have total refining capacity. Essentially they are atmospheric distillation units that produce hydrocarbon boiling point cuts from resid to LPG. A topping unit is an inexpensive, technically simple means to enhance the value of crude oil near the source of production. Crude oil distillation is an energy intensive process that requires crude oil heaters with cross heat exchangers.