Most applications of COD determine the amount of organic pollutants found in surface water (e.g. lakes and rivers) or wastewater, making COD a useful measure of water quality. It is expressed in milligrams per liter (mg / L), which indicates the mass of oxygen consumed per liter of solution. Overview [edit]. The basis for the COD test is that nearly all organic compounds can be fully oxidized to carbon dioxide with a strong oxidizing agent under acidic conditions.
Cod is the common name for the genus Gadus of demersal fishes, belonging to the family Gadidae. Cod is also used as part of the common name for a number of other fish species, and there are species suggested to belong to genus Gadus that are not called cod (the Alaska pollock). (However, G. morhua callarias, a low-salinity, non-migratory race restricted to parts of the Baltic, was originally described as Gadus callarias by Linnaeus.). Cod is popular as a food with a mild flavour and a dense, flaky white flesh. Cod livers are processed to make cod liver oil, an important source of vitamin A, vitamin D, vitamin E and omega-3 fatty acids (EPA and DHA). Young Atlantic cod or haddock prepared in strips for cooking is called scrod
Cod is popular as a food with a mild flavor and a dense, flaky white flesh. Cod livers are processed to make cod liver oil, an important source of vitamin A, vitamin D, vitamin E and omega-3 fatty acids (EPA and DHA). (However, G. morhua callarias, a low-salinity, non-migratory race restricted to parts of the Baltic, was originally described as Gadus callarias by Linnaeus.). Cod is popular as a food with a mild flavour and a dense, flaky white flesh. Cod livers are processed to make cod liver oil, an important source of vitamin A, vitamin D, vitamin E and omega-3 fatty acids (EPA and DHA). Young Atlantic cod or haddock prepared in strips for cooking is called scrod
BREAKING DOWN 'Cash On Delivery-COD'. This type of transaction is usually done through a shipping company and allows both the seller and the buyer of the product to minimize the risk of fraud or default. COD allows the purchaser to pay at the time of delivery instead of having to pay upfront. Payment is made to the shipping company, and the shipping company then relays the payment back to the seller.
DEFINITION of 'Cash On Delivery-COD'. A type of transaction in which payment for a good is made at the time of delivery. If the purchaser does not make payment when the good is delivered, then the good will be returned to the seller. COD allows the purchaser to pay at the time of delivery instead of having to pay upfront. Payment is made to the shipping company, and the shipping company then relays the payment back
In environmental chemistry, the chemical oxygen demand (COD) test is commonly used to indirectly measure the amount of organic compounds in water. Overview [edit]. The basis for the COD test is that nearly all organic compounds can be fully oxidized to carbon dioxide with a strong oxidizing agent under acidic conditions.
Medical Definition of COD. : any of various bottom-dwelling fishes (family Gadidae, the cod family) that usually occur in cold marine waters and often have barbels and three dorsal fins: as a: one (Gadus morhua) of the North Atlantic that is an important food fish b: one (Gadus macrocephalus) of the Pacific Ocean. 1. : any of various bottom-dwelling fishes (family Gadidae, the cod family) that usually occur in cold marine waters and often have barbels and three dorsal fins: as a: one (Gadus morhua) of the North Atlantic that is an important food fish b: one (Gadus macrocephalus) of the Pacific Ocean. 2.
Definition of COD. 1. : any of various bottom-dwelling fishes (family Gadidae, the cod family) that usually occur in cold marine waters and often have barbels and three dorsal fins: as a: one (Gadus morhua) of the North Atlantic that is an important food fish b: one (Gadus macrocephalus) of the Pacific Ocean. 2. : any of various bony fishes ...
Cash on delivery, also referred to as COD, is a method of shipping goods to buyers who do not have credit terms with the seller. COD allows the purchaser to pay at the time of delivery instead of having to pay upfront. Payment is made to the shipping company, and the shipping company then relays the payment back to