Geography. Saudi Arabia occupies most of the Arabian Peninsula, with the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aqaba to the west and the Persian Gulf to the east. Neighboring countries are Jordan, Iraq, Kuwait, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, the Sultanate of Oman, Yemen, and Bahrain, connected to the Saudi mainland by a causewa
The given Saudi Arabia location map shows that Saudi Arabia is located in south-western Asia. Saudi Arabia map also shows that Saudi Arabia is the largest country of the Middle East. It shares its international boundaries with Yemen in the south, Kuwait, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates in the east, and Jordan and Iraq in the north and northeast. 
Saudi Arabia, and the Arabian peninsula, are considered part of Asia, to which the peninsula is directly connected. Being the southwest section, it is the closest part of the Asian continent to Africa. Saudi Arabia is a country in the middle east located on the Arabian peninsula. So Saudi Arabia is the country and Arabia is just the peninsula. Sort of like how America is loc … ated on the continent of North America (and no, Arabia is NOT a continent).
Saudi Arabia is a country with a medium population which is located in the continent/region of Asia. Countries near Saudi Arabia include Bahrain, Qatar, Kuwait and United Arab Emirates. 
LOCATION AND SIZE. Saudi Arabia is located in the Middle East between the Persian Gulf and the Red Sea. It borders Jordan, Iraq, and Kuwait to the north, Yemen to the south, and Oman, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), and Qatar to the east. The country, which is divided into 13 provinces, is composed primarily of desert. 
Saudi Arabia is located in the Middle East which is the area of southwest Asia. Saudi Arabia occupies most of the Arabian Peninsula. It is in extreme southwest Asia, on the A … rabian Peninsula along with Iraq, Jordan, Yemen, Oman, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Kuwait. + 42 others found this useful. Saudi Arabia is a country in the middle east located on the Arabian peninsula. So Saudi Arabia is the country and Arabia is just the peninsula. Sort of like how America is loc … ated on the continent of North America (and no, Arabia is NOT a continent).
Saudi Arabia, and the Arabian peninsula, are considered part of Asia, to which the peninsula is directly connected. Being the southwest section, it is the closest part of the … Asian continent to Africa. The countries around Saudi Arabia are known as the Middle East and share a geopolitical history with Egypt and the Mediterranean Sea. + 31 others found this useful.
Saudi Arabia is bordered by Jordan and Iraq to the north, Kuwait to the northeast, Qatar, Bahrain, and the United Arab Emirates to the east, Oman to the southeast, and Yemen to the south. 
Report Abuse. Saudi Arabia; Location: Asia Middle East, bordering the Persian Gulf and the Red Sea, north of Yemen Geographic coordinates: 25 00 N, 45 00 E Map references: Middle East Area: total: 2,149,690 sq km land: 2,149,690 sq km water: 0 sq km. Paladin · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. Saudi Arabia is in the Middle East. It is in Asia. Wikipedia is an excellent resource for questions such as this. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saudi_arabi... http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asia#Politi...