 Nonvascular plants which lack vascular tissue.  Seedless vascular plants which have vascular tissue but do not make seeds. Instead, they make spores that are carried by wind to a new habitat.  Seed plants which have vascular tissue and produce seeds. During this lab we will investigate the microanatomy of nonvascular and vascular plants (including both seedless and seed plants). In the following 2 labs, you will investigate the macro-anatomy of these organisms in the field. Unlike other land plants, the nonvascular plants are characterized by a dominant gametophyte and a small, short-lived sporophyte that is dependent on the gametophyte (figures 5 and 6). Since the gametophyte produces sperm (male gametophyte) or egg (female gametophyte), self-fertilization does not occur.
Plagiochila. deltoidea. = liverwort. two plant forms in the bryophyte life cycle 1. Gametophyte 2. Sporophyte sporophyte – bears spore-producing structures called sporangia (singular = sporangium) gametophyte – bears gamete-producing structures called gametangia (singular = gametangium) two kinds of gametangia 1. Archegonium (female) – makes an egg 2. 
• Some ferns have sporophytes that are as large as trees. • The gametophytes of ferns are thin, green, heart-shaped plants that are less than 1 cm across.  The sporophytes produce spores in sporangia. • In horsetails and club mosses, sporangia develop in cone-like structures. Reproductive Structures of Seed Plants  Reproduction in seed plants (gymnosperms and angiosperms) is very different from reproduction in seedless plants.  You need a microscope to see the gametophytes of seed plants.  Spores are not released from
In mosses, liverworts and hornworts, an unbranched sporophyte produces a single sporangium, which may be quite complex morphologically. Most non-vascular plants, as well as many lycophytes and most ferns, are homosporous (only one kind of spore is produced). All plants, fungi, and many other lineages form sporangia at some point in their life cycle. Sporangia can produce spores by mitosis, but in nearly all land plants and many fungi, sporangia are the site of meiosis and produce genetically distinct haploid spores.
The lycopods, selaginellas, horsetails, and ferns are vascular plants that reproduce by spores, not by seeds. Both diploid and haploid phases of the life cycle form vegetative structures in these plants. The haploid stage (gametophyte; 1n) is reduced, while the diploid stage (sporophyte; 2n) is large and visible. 
The gametophyte is the gamete-producing plant that produces male reproductive structures called antheridia, which produce sperm, and female reproductive structures called archegonia, which produce eggs. When a sperm cell fertilizes an egg inside the archegonium, a diploid zygote is formed. As the spore germinates, it develops into a thin, filamentous stage called a protonema. As the protonema grows, it develops into a mature gametophyte with root-like rhizoids that anchor the plant and an erect, stem-like structure with whorls of leaf-like photosynthetic tissues.
Reproduction in Nonvascular Plants  Nonvascular plants have a life cycle called alternation of generations. • A gamete-producing stage (gametophyte) alternates with a spore-producing stage (sporophyte). • Gametophytes produce gametes (eggs and sperm) in separate multicellular structures. Reproductive Structures of Seed Plants  Reproduction in seed plants (gymnosperms and angiosperms) is very different from reproduction in seedless plants.  You need a microscope to see the gametophytes of seed plants.  Spores are not released from
Microspores (produced in a microsporangium) can develop into male gametophytes that produce sperm within antheridia. Because the gametophytes develop within the spores, they are not free-living as the gametophytes of other seedless vascular plants. As the spore germinates, it develops into a thin, filamentous stage called a protonema. As the protonema grows, it develops into a mature gametophyte with root-like rhizoids that anchor the plant and an erect, stem-like structure with whorls of leaf-like photosynthetic tissues.