And with the use of a zip-seal bag and a permanent marker, you can avoid wasting your good food. Before you put meat in the freezer, you should always write the date on it -- that way you don't have to question how long it's been frozen. And, believe it or not, some meats can last in the freezer for up to one year. 1  Cooked poultry -- 4 months. 2  Uncooked poultry parts -- 9 months. 3  Uncooked whole poultry -- 12 months. 
Raw pork chops can be safely frozen for up to six months. Raw pork roasts can stay in the freezer for as long as one year. Cooked pork products can be frozen for up to four months. Wrap Pork for the Freezer. If the pork is cooked, pack it in a rigid container, like a plastic storage container with a tight lid meant to be used in the freezer. Leave some head room.
Whether your pork is fresh or already cooked, make sure your freezer is set to 0 degrees Fahrenheit or below. Keep in mind the meat will last longer if it's properly wrapped before you put it in the freezer. Wrap Pork for the Freezer. If the pork is cooked, pack it in a rigid container, like a plastic storage container with a tight lid meant to be used in the freezer. Leave some head room.
For best quality, fresh pork roast, steaks, chops or ribs should be used within 4 - 6 months; fresh ground pork, pork liver or variety meats should be used within 3 - 4 months; and home cooked pork; soups, stews or casseroles within 2 - 3 months. 
What length of time can I keep pork in the freezer? Generally, fresh cuts of pork, like roasts, chops and tenderloin can be kept well-wrapped in the freezer up to six months. Well-wrapped ground pork can be kept for about three months in the freezer. The best way to defrost pork is in the refrigerator in its wrapping. Follow these guidelines for defrosting pork in the refrigerator: 1  Small roast will take 3-5 hours per pound. 2  Large roast will take 4-7
Pork may be cooked frozen or defrosted. Defrosted pork should be cooked as a fresh cut; but allow additional cooking time. Frozen roasts require 1/3 to 1/2 more time for cooking. Cooking time for frozen steaks and patties varies according to surface area, thickness, and broiling temperature. Freezing Fresh Cut Hogs at Home. The best way to freeze fresh cut and wrapped pork at home is by flash freezing.Flash Freezing can be done at -15 F on your home freezer upon some prior preparation.Most chest-style freezer have the capability of reaching -15 F,but some upright freezers may not.
Frozen Pork Storage. Raw pork chops can be safely frozen for up to six months. Raw pork roasts can stay in the freezer for as long as one year. Cooked pork products can be frozen for up to four months. After this time, the meat might be dry and it will have less flavor, although it will still be safe to eat. Wrap Pork for the Freezer. If the pork is cooked, pack it in a rigid container, like a plastic storage container with a tight lid meant to be used in the freezer. Leave some head room.
Sealed, prepackaged, fresh pork cuts can be kept in the refrigerator 2 to 4 days; sealed ground pork will keep in the refrigerator for 1 to 2 days. If you do plan on keeping fresh pork longer than 2 to 3 days before cooking it, store it well-wrapped in the freezer. Generally, fresh cuts of pork, like roasts, chops and tenderloin, can be kept well-wrapped in the freezer for up to 6 months. Well-wrapped ground pork can be kept for about 3 months
Sealed, pre-packed fresh pork cuts can be kept in the refrigerator 2 to 4 days; sealed ground pork will keep in the refrigerator for 1 to 2 days. If you do plan on keeping the raw, fresh pork longer than 2 to 3 days before cooking it, store it well-wrapped in the freezer. How long can I store ham or other smoked products in the refrigerator? Whole smoked ham and whole ham slices can be stored in the refrigerator for 3-4 days or the use by date on the label. The best way to defrost pork is in the refrigerator in its wrapping. Follow these guidelines for defrosting pork in the refrigerator: 1  Small roast will take 3-5 hours per pound. 2  Large roast will take 4-7