There are three types of muscle tissues: skeletal, cardiac and smooth muscles. a. skeletal muscle: multinucleated, striated; attached to bones producing locomotion, general support and posture; producing heat. Contraction is voluntary, and not long-sustained. I. FUNCTION AND TYPES OF MUSCLE. Locomotion: One of the most obvious functions of muscle tissue is locomotion. When muscles contract, the fibers pull or relax bones to which they are attached, thus causing locomotion. Muscle contraction is also the primary means of moving lymph in the lymphatic vessel.
In biology, tissue is a cellular organizational level intermediate between cells and a complete organ. A tissue is an ensemble of similar cells from the same origin that together carry out a specific function. Organs are then formed by the functional grouping together of multiple tissues. The study of tissue is known as histology or, in connection with disease, histopathology.
However, cardiac and smooth muscle may be additionally regulated by the endocrine system. Skeletal Muscle Tissue Structure Skeletal muscle tissue is formed from skeletal muscle fibers (cells). The fibers are characterized by being (1) long, (2) parallel, (3) cylindrical, and (4) multinucleate. (5) The nuclei of the fiber are located at the fiber’s periphery. • Locations • Skeletal muscle tissue forms the muscles of the body that are used for the body’s movements. Cardiac muscle tissue forms the muscle of the heart. Smooth muscle tissue lines hollow organs such as the stomach, urinary bladder, uterus, blood vessels, etc. MUSCLE TISSUE • Functions • Muscle fibers contract by the interaction of the contractile proteins actin and myosin
Unlike most tissues, skeletal muscle does not consist of individual cells. Rather it is formed from huge, multinucleate muscle fibers, which develop by fusion of many individual embryonic cells called myoblasts. Muscle fibers can grow by continued nuclear division within the fibers. 
The muscle tissues are formed by the cells in the muscle clinging to one another to form the muscle tissue. Cardiac muscle is found in the heart. The other two types of muscle are smooth and striated (skeletal) muscle. Cardiac muscle, the third kind of muscle (the other two being sk … eletal and smooth muscle.
1 Smooth muscle, neither striated in structure nor under voluntary control, is found within the walls of organs and structures such as the esophagus, stomach, intestines, bronchi, uterus, urethra, bladder, blood vessels, and the arrector pili in the skin (in which it controls erection of body hair). Muscle tissue is a soft tissue that composes muscles in animal bodies, and gives rise to muscles' ability to contract. This is opposed to other components or tissues in muscle such as tendons or perimysium. It is formed during embryonic development through a process known as myogenesis. Muscle tissue varies with function and location in the body. In mammals the three types are: skeletal or striated muscle; smooth or non-striated muscle; and cardiac muscle, which is sometimes known as semi-striated
Muscle is a soft tissue found in most animals. Muscle cells contain protein filaments of actin and myosin that slide past one another, producing a contraction that changes both the length and the shape of the cell. Muscle tissues are derived from the mesodermal layer of embryonic germ cells in a process known as myogenesis. There are three types of muscle, skeletal or striated, cardiac, and smooth. Muscle action can be classified as being either voluntary or involuntary