When growing multiple plants you will often find a sizable variation in height of your plant. To maximize light exposure and therefore yield, it is ideal to flower plants of uniform height. Several methods can be used to help create an even canopy of tops before you switch to the flowering cycle. If an indica plant is switched to flowering when it is 12 inches tall it can be expected to finish flowering at about 18 inches, give or take. That math is pretty consistent, so a 2 foot tall indica will likely finish flowering around 3 feet tall. Here is the equation for indica strains.
If you want your marijuana plants to start pre-flowering just change the light cycle to 12 hours on and 12 hours of complete darkness. Why does this work, well let’s think about how plants are in their natural environment. 
Basically you (the grower) are in complete control of how tall your cannabis plants grow. This is especially true for indoor growers, where you are in charge of nearly everything. When growing outdoors, you still have a bit of control over plant height, but you are also at the mercy of the sun and the elements. So even though you can force plants to grow into any size and shape, it's often easier to start with a strain that naturally grows the way you want. That way your plant is working with you instead of against you. Learn how to find the right strain for your needs.
A 12 inch plant switched to the 12/12 light cycle could end up as tall as 36 inches, sometimes even taller. This additional vertical growth can quickly become a problem in a normal grow room. I’ve seen growers flower sativas at 2 feet tall only to end up with 6 foot plants at harvest. If an indica plant is switched to flowering when it is 12 inches tall it can be expected to finish flowering at about 18 inches, give or take. That math is pretty consistent, so a 2 foot tall indica will likely finish flowering around 3 feet tall. Here is the equation for indica strains.
For me it's not so much the height but more how many sets of leaves can the plant grow before I have to flower it. For me I am set by the size of my veg box which isn't that big so the more sets of leaves I can get in before I reach that height the more bud I should get. They still end up 2-4ft tall by the end of flower and that is flowering from 6 inches tall. I'm just trying to grasp the ideal hight to switch my plants to 12/12, I'm in a 1x1x2 tent 7.5 litre pots, coco, canna nuts, 600w MH for veg 600w hps for flower.
Obviously you would need to have enough lighting to support the size of your plants aswell. I turn my plants when they are at the height I want them to be so sometimes that could take 5 weeks and other times it could take 8 weeks depending on the plant and the care it has been given. Ata boy Blaze,,,I taught you well..lol. Mr.O. When you turn your plants its all about size and how big you intend to grow them
If you start the flowering when the plant is very small say 6 inches the height of the plant will continue to increase for about two to four weeks after flowering has been started, after that all the plants energy will be used for flower production. Once flowering begins, the height of the plants will taper off as the plant energy is used in the flowering process itself. You can start flowering when the plants are a minimum of about 6 inches high and have at least 4 sets of leaves. This will take 2 weeks to a month of vegetative growth in most hydroponic gardens. When you want to start flowering cut the light back to 12 hours a day
Outdoors, you plant in the spring, and harvest in late fall, taking 5-6 months or more. Indoors you have more control over the plant and can choose how long you want your plants to grow before harvest, and can get to harvest in just a few months. So even though you can force plants to grow into any size and shape, it's often easier to start with a strain that naturally grows the way you want. That way your plant is working with you instead of against you. Learn how to find the right strain for your needs.
My present grow is in flower for 10 days and some are showing serious flowering already. These plants were about 2-3 weeks from seed when I put them into flowering. Some of the other plants were from 1-2 weeks of veg time. I usually go eight full weeks but this is a SOG sativa grow so I need many plants in a small space. These sativas will go from 10 weeks up to 14 weeks in flower