As DNA polymerase moves along the template strand, each new nucleotide provides a 5’ hydroxyl group for the next reaction to occur. Primers are short sequences that allow the initiation of DNA synthesis. DNA polymerase adds dNTP monomers in the 3’ to 5’ direction. They are synthesized in the 3’ to 5’ direction. They are sealed together by the action of helicase. Correct. While DNA is synthesized continuously on the leading strand, Okazaki fragments are formed on the lagging strand because DNA synthesis always proceeds in the 5’ to 3
DNA helicase an enzyme that unwinds the DNA double helix during DNA replication 7. DNA polymerase an enzyme that catalyzes the formation of the DNA molecule 8. double helix Spiral-staircase structure characteristic of the DNA molecule 9. guanine Nitrogen base found in DNA and RNA: pairs with cystosine. 10
- eukaryote DNA polymerase-primase: synthesizes an RNA primer at initiation sites for leading and lagging strand synthesis to provide a 3' OH for elongation with DNA nt. - contribute to processivity by forming a sliding clamp around DNA, helping the DNA maintain contact with its template-inner face of clamp enables DNA to be threaded through it-once polymerase reaches the end of the template or detects dsDNA, sliding clamp undergoes conformational change and releases DNA pol.   .
On the leading strand DNA replication proceeds continuously along the DNA molecule as the parent double-stranded DNA is unwound, but on the lagging strand the new DNA is made in installments, which are later joined together by a DNA ligase enzyme. DNA polymerase δ [edit]. Following creation of RNA primers by Primase on the lagging strand, DNA polymerase δ synthesizes Okazaki fragments. DNA polymerase δ also carries out a 3’ to 5’ exonuclease role, proofreading newly synthesized DNA strands during DNA replication.
Proteins of DNA Replication. 1  DNA Helicases-These proteins bind to the double stranded DNA and stimulate the separation of the two strands. 2  DNA single-stranded binding proteins-These proteins bind to the DNA as a tetramer and stabilize the single-stranded structure that is generated by the action of the helicases. In addition to these proteins, several other enzymes are involved in bacterial DNA replication. 1  DNA Polymerase-DNA Polymerase I (Pol I) was the first enzyme discovered with polymerase activity, and it is the best characterized enzyme. 2  5' to 3' elongation (polymerase activity). 3  3' to 5' exonuclease (proof-reading activity). 4  5' to 3' exonuclease ....
An enzyme that catalyzes the elongation of new DNA at a replication fork by the addition of nucleotides to the existing chain. 764961054. semi-conservative replication. in each new DNA double helix, one strand is from the original molecule, and one is a new strand. 
DNA is composed of nucleotides that are joined by phosphodiester bonds. DNA synthesis, which takes place in the nucleus, is a semiconservative process, which means that the resulting DNA molecule contains an original strand from the parent structure and a new strand. DNA synthesis is initiated by the RNA polymerase primase, which makes an RNA primer with a free 3’OH. This primer is attached to the single-stranded DNA template, and DNA polymerase elongates the chain by incorporating nucleotides; DNA polymerase also proofreads the newly synthesized DNA strand.
The enzyme that catalyzes DNA replication is known as DNA  polymerase. Helicase is another enzyme that is used in the process  of DNA replication. 
A linking enzyme essential for DNA replication; catalyzes the covalent bonding of the 3' end of a new DNA fragment to the 5' end of a growing chain. 445666814. DNA Polymerase. An enzyme that catalyzes the elongation of new DNA at a replication fork by the addition of nucleotides to the existing chain. Anticodon. Group of three bases on a tRNA molecule that are complementary to an mRNA codon. 445666822. Base-Pair Substitution. A type of point mutation; the replacement of one nucleotide and its partner in the complementary DNA strand by another pair of nucleotides.
One, a 3 to 5 exonuclease, is intimately involved in the accuracy of replication. Nucleases are enzymes that catalyze the breakdown of DNA or RNA into smaller fragments and/or nucleotides. An exonuclease catalyzes cleavage of nucleotides from the end of a DNA or RNA polymer. The enzyme primase catalyzes the synthesis of the primers from which DNA polymerases can begin synthesis (Figure 5.21). Primers are short oligonucleotides, ranging from 6 to 60 nucleotides long. They can be made of ribonucleotides or a mixture of deoxyribonucleotides and ribo