Lemongrass is a perennial plant with thin, long leaves and is indigenous to India and other areas of the Asian continent including Cambodia, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand and Vietnam. It is also common in Ceylon, Central America, China, Guatemala, India, Java, Madagascar, Sri Lanka, the West Indian islands and Zambia. There are more than fifty varieties of lemongrass but not all are suitable for consumption or medical use.
Lemongrass (cymbopogon) is a perennial tropical grass that is native to the Philippines, and is now found in warm temperate and tropical climates around the world. It is one of about 55 species of grass. Lemongrass is used in teas, soups, and curries. I often use it raw, finely slicing a small piece of lemongrass and feeding the pulp into my slow juicer. Watch out-large pieces are quite hard, and will damage your juicer.
Lemongrass, sometimes written lemon grass is a genus (Cymbopogon sp. ) of species of grass used as an herb. Native to India, lemongrass is widely grown throughout south and southeast Asia, the middle east, and central America. Lemongrass has a strong aroma resembling lemon. There is significant evidence pointing to anti-cancer, antiviral, and antifungal activity of the essential oil of lemongrass. There is also some evidence of analgesic (pain-relieving) effects. However, as with many herbal teas, human studies of the health effects of lemongrass are sparse.
LEMONGRASS Overview Information. Lemongrass is a plant. The leaves and the oil are used to make medicine. Lemongrass is used for treating digestive tract spasms, stomachache, high blood pressure, convulsions, pain, vomiting, cough, achy joints (rheumatism), fever, the common cold, and exhaustion. It is also used to kill germs and as a mild astringent. 
By using disk diffusion assay, we evaluated the antifungal activity of lemongrass oil and citral against yeasts of Candida species (Candida albicans, C. glabrata, C. krusei, C. parapsilosis and C. tropicalis). This study showed that lemongrass oil and citral have a potent in vitro activity against Candida spp. These results demonstrated the potentiality of using the lemongrass oil instead of the citral in pharmaceuticals preparations, because of its similar antifungal activity, the minor cost and toxicity. Citral is a widely used fragrance and flavor material with a strong lemon-like odor.
Results. In this work, the antifungal activity against other Candida species was also studied, and the results obtained showed the important antifungal activity of lemongrass oil and citral. Candida albicans is an important pathogen of human infections; moreover, other species can be associated with some infections. These results demonstrated the potentiality of using the lemongrass oil instead of the citral in pharmaceuticals preparations, because of its similar antifungal activity, the minor cost and toxicity. Citral is a widely used fragrance and flavor material with a strong lemon-like odor.
By using disk diffusion assay, we evaluated the antifungal activity of lemongrass oil and citral against yeasts of Candida species (Candida albicans, C. glabrata, C. krusei, C. parapsilosis and C. tropicalis). This study showed that lemongrass oil and citral have a potent in vitro activity against Candida spp. Superficial mycoses of the skin are among the most common dermatological infections, and causative organisms include dermatophytic, yeasts, and non-dermatophytic filamentous fungi. The treatment is limited, for many reasons, and new drugs are necessary.
Antifungal activity of the lemongrass oil and citral against Candida spp. Silva Cde B(1), Guterres SS, Weisheimer V, Schapoval EE. Author information: (1)Pos-Graduation program in Pharmaceuthical Sciences, Pharmaceutical School, Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil. Superficial mycoses of the skin are among the most common dermatological infections, and causative organisms include dermatophytic, yeasts, and non-dermatophytic filamentous fungi. The treatment is limited, for many reasons, and new drugs are necessary.