Overview of USB Ports: A USB port is a standard cable connection interface on personal computers and consumer electronics. USB ports allow stand-alone electronic devices to be connected via cables to a computer (or to each other). USB stands for Universal Serial Bus, an industry standard for short-distance digital data communications. If using a USB hub, plug a separate cable into each device and connect them to the hub individually. You may plug cables into a USB port at any time regardless of whether the devices involved are powered on or off.
USB (Universal Serial Bus) is the most popular connection used to connect a computer to devices such as digital cameras, printers, scanners, and external hard drives. USB is a cross-platform technology that is supported by most of the major operating systems. On Windows, it can be used with Windows 98 and higher. USB is a hot-swappable technology, meaning that USB devices can be added and removed without having to restart the computer. USB is also “plug and play”. When you connect a USB device to your PC, Windows should detect the device and even install the drivers needed to use it. There are two versions of USB.
Most USB cables that connect a device to a computer will have a Standard-A plug on one end and another type of plug on the other. Ad. Beyond connector types, compliant USB cables are not proprietary. A standard cable can connect a device to a Macintosh or a Windows PC, for example. A variety of USB cables, including micro-USB, mini-USB, and standard USB. USB cables are used to connect devices -- such as printers, keyboards and music players -- to computers. USB cables allow computers to connect to peripheral devices
USB, short for Universal Serial Bus, is a standard type of connection for many different kinds of devices. Generally, USB refers to the types of cables and connectors used to connect these many types of external devices to computers. 
USB, short for Universal Serial Bus, is an industry standard developed in the mid-1990s that defines the cables, connectors and communications protocols used in a bus for connection, communication, and power supply between computers and electronic devices. 
A USB hub is a device that expands a single Universal Serial Bus (USB) port into several so that there are more ports available to connect devices to a host system. USB hubs are often built into equipment such as computers, keyboards, monitors, or printers. 
Connect two devices directly with one USB cable by plugging each end into a USB port. If using a USB hub, plug a separate cable into each device and connect them to the hub individually. You may plug cables into a USB port at any time regardless of whether the devices involved are powered on or off.
USB cable. A variety of USB cables, including micro-USB, mini-USB, and standard USB. USB cables are used to connect devices -- such as printers, keyboards and music players -- to computers. USB cables allow computers to connect to peripheral devices
A Universal Serial Bus (USB) Cable is primarily used to connect a USB device to a host. Common hosts include computers and video game consoles. While there are multiple USB standards, cables that are fully compliant with USB 1.1 specifications will work with USB 2.0 technology and vice versa. A variety of USB cables, including micro-USB, mini-USB, and standard USB. USB cables are used to connect devices -- such as printers, keyboards and music players -- to computers. USB cables allow computers to connect to peripheral devices