A pun is a joke that makes a play on words. A pun, also called paronomasia, uses words that have several meanings or words that sound similar but have different meanings. 
A pun, or paronomasia, is a play on words. It plays with the multiple meanings of a word or the different meanings of similar sounding words. 
Definition. A pun is a play on words, either on different senses of the same word or on the similar sense or sound of different words. Known in rhetoric as paronomasia. Puns are figures of speech based on the inherent ambiguities of language. A pun is a play on words, either on different senses of the same word or on the similar sense or sound of different words. Known in rhetoric as paronomasia
pun. 1. the humorous use of a word or phrase so as to emphasize or suggest its different meanings or applications, or the use of words that are alike or nearly alike in sound but different in meaning; a play on words. 2. a word or phrase used in this way. 3. to make puns. pun. n. A play on words, sometimes on different senses of the same word and sometimes on the similar sense or sound of different words. intr.v. punned, pun·ning, puns.
The pun is a form of word play which puts forward two or more meanings. Funny pun jokes exploit several meanings of words, or of similar-sounding words, with an intention to induce humor. It is a play on words that takes benefit of similarities between words or phrases.
Pun Examples. Paronomasia or pun is a word play, exploiting different meanings of the same word or a string of words, or similar-sounding words. This article gives you different examples of puns. Advertisement. A type of word play wherein one word has two meanings or where similar-sounding words are exploited, is known as pun. This gives an ambiguity to the sentence, which is purposely added for a humorous or rhetorical effect. According to Ambrose Bierce, pun is A form of wit, to which wise men stoop and fools aspire.
The pun, also called paronomasia, is a form of word play that suggests two or more meanings, by exploiting multiple meanings of words, or of similar-sounding words, for an intended humorous or rhetorical effect. A recursive pun is one in which the second aspect of a pun relies on the understanding of an element in the first. For example, the statement  π is only half a pie. (π radians is 180 degrees, or half a circle, and a pie is a complete circle).
Funny Puns. Enjoy our funny puns with a list of examples that are sure to make you laugh. Puns are a form of word play which take advantage of words, or similar sounding words, with multiple meanings, often to create a humorous situation or joke. Puns can sometimes be created unintentionally, in which case the saying ‘no pun intended’ is used
Pun Definition. A pun is a play on words in which a humorous effect is produced by using a word that suggests two or more meanings or by exploiting similar sounding words having different meanings. Humorous effects created by puns depend upon the ambiguities words entail. The ambiguities arise mostly in homophones and homonyms. 