Coffee is a brewed drink prepared from roasted coffee beans, which are the seeds of berries from the Coffea plant. Coffee plants are cultivated in over 70 countries, primarily in the equatorial regions of the Americas, Southeast Asia, India, and Africa. The first reference to coffee in the English language is in the form chaona, dated to 1598 and understood to be a misprint of chaoua (equivalent, in the orthography of the time, to chaova). This term and coffee both derive from the Ottoman Turkish kahve (قهوه), by way of the Italian caffe. caffè
Coffee is a beverage made by grinding roasted coffee beans and allowing hot water to flow through them. 1 6 If the coffee is to be decaffeinated, it is now processed using either a solvent or a water method. 2  In the first process, the coffee beans are treated with a solvent (usually methylene chloride) that leaches out the caffeine.
A coffee bean is a seed of the coffee plant, and is the source for coffee. It is the pit inside the red or purple fruit often referred to as a cherry. Just like cherries, the coffee fruit is also a so called stone fruit. 
Decaf coffee is a delight -- perfect for an after-dinner treat, minus the jittery shakes. But we've never quite wrapped our heads around exactly how it's made. After all, as this video from Craig Benzine of Mental Floss points out, the caffeine is actually in the coffee bean. 
Coffee is slightly acidic (pH 5.0–5.1) and can have a stimulating effect on humans because of its caffeine content. Coffee is one of the most popular drinks in the world. It can be prepared and presented in a variety of ways (e.g., espresso, cappuccino, cafe latte, etc.). It is usually served hot, although iced coffee is also served. The first reference to coffee in the English language is in the form chaona, dated to 1598 and understood to be a misprint of chaoua (equivalent, in the orthography of the time, to chaova). This term and coffee both derive from the Ottoman Turkish kahve (قهوه), by way of the Italian caffe. caffè
Coffee is a plant and the name of the drink that is made from this plant. The coffee plant is a bush or tree that can grow up to ten meters (about 32 feet) high, but is usually cut shorter. Coffee plants originally grew in Africa, and now also grow in South America, Central America and Southeast Asia. Before the coffee is made into a drink, it is ground in a small grinding machine called a coffee mill . The coffee mill breaks the beans into very small pieces. Coffee is turned into a drink in several different ways.
1 Boiling: The coffee and the water are put into a pot on top of the stove and boiled slowly together. 2  This way of making coffee has been used for hundreds of years. 3  It is the way that coffee is usually made in the Middle East, North Africa, Turkey and Greece. Before the coffee is made into a drink, it is ground in a small grinding machine called a coffee mill . The coffee mill breaks the beans into very small pieces. Coffee is turned into a drink in several different ways.
Background. Coffee is a beverage made by grinding roasted coffee beans and allowing hot water to flow through them. Dark, flavorful, and aromatic, the resulting liquid is usually served hot, when its full flavor can best be appreciated. 1 6 If the coffee is to be decaffeinated, it is now processed using either a solvent or a water method. 2  In the first process, the coffee beans are treated with a solvent (usually methylene chloride) that leaches out the caffeine.
Instant coffee, also called soluble coffee, coffee crystals and coffee powder, is a beverage derived from brewed coffee beans. Instant coffee is commercially prepared by either freeze-drying or spray drying, after which it can be rehydrated. Instant coffee in a concentrated liquid form is also manufactured. Instant coffee is available in powder or granulated form contained in glass jars, sachets, or tins. The user controls the strength of the resulting product, by adding less or more powder to the water, ranging from thin coffee water to very strong and almost syrupy coffee.
Coffee Production Today. Coffee grows in around eighty countries in South and Central America, the Caribbean, Africa and Asia. Arabica coffee accounts for about three-quarters of coffee cultivated worldwide. It is grown throughout Latin America, Central and East Africa, India and, to some extent, Indonesia. Robusta coffee is grown in West and Central Africa, throughout South-East Asia and, to some extent. in Brazil. Brazil is the largest coffee exporting nation, but Vietnam tripled its exports between 1995 and 1999, and became a major producer of Robusta beans. 