pederasty-sexual relations between a man and a boy (usually anal intercourse with the boy as a passive partner). paederasty. paraphilia-abnormal sexual activity. gayness, homoeroticism, homosexualism, homosexuality, queerness-a sexual attraction to (or sexual relations with) persons of the same sex. 
Pederasty in ancient Greece was a socially acknowledged erotic relationship between an adult male (the erastes) and a younger male (the eromenos) usually in his teens. The historian's job is to present pederasty and all, to make sure that … we come face to face with the way the glory that was Greece was part of a world in which many of our own core values find themselves challenged rather than reinforced. Contents.
Pederasty or paederasty (US /ˈpɛdəraesti/ ˈpɛdəræsti OR /uk/) ˈpiːdəraesti ˈpiːdəræsti (is a) usually erotic homosexual relationship between an adult male and a pubescent or. adolescent male Pederasty is the archetypal example of male age-structured homosexuality. Geoffrey Gorer and others distinguish pederasty from pedophilia, which he defined as a separate, fourth type that he described as grossly pathological in all societies of which we have record..
pederast. A word derived from the combination of pais (greek for boy) and erastis (Greek for lover; often times sexual). Used incorrectly in the media as another word for pedophilia, pederasty is commonly confused for the obsession or desire for child pornography. Pederasty is defined as generally anal intercourse between a man of undetermined older age and a male who is underage, as the restrictions apply in his area. Pederasty was used as a moral and educational institution in ancient Greece. In more recent times it has been brought down to ideas of demorilization and mental dysfunction. Lack of information on said subject often time brings fear of the unknown.
The word pederasty derives from Greek (paiderastia) love of boys, a compound derived from παῖς (pais) child, boy and ἐραστής (erastēs) lover. In French, however, pederastie pédérastie has been used as a synonym for homosexuality between adult (males See histoire du mot). pederastie pédérastie Pederasty is the archetypal example of male age-structured homosexuality. Geoffrey Gorer and others distinguish pederasty from pedophilia, which he defined as a separate, fourth type that he described as grossly pathological in all societies of which we have record..
), in the sense of sexual relations between men and boys. In modern academic parlance, pederasty is used as a generic term to describe the cultural phenomenon of erotic relationships between men and adolescent boys, wherever encountered. In Roman times, pederasty largely lost its status as a ritual part of education — a process already begun by the increasingly sophisticated and cosmopolitan Greeks — and was instead seen as an activity primarily driven by one's sexual desires and competing with desire for women.
Pederasty or paederasty (US /ˈpɛdəraesti/ ˈpɛdəræsti OR /uk/) ˈpiːdəraesti ˈpiːdəræsti (is a) usually erotic homosexual relationship between an adult male and a pubescent or. Adolescent male the word pederasty Derives (from) greek paiderastia love, of boys a compound derived (from) παῖς, pais child boy (and) ἐραστής. erastēs lover Pederasty is the archetypal example of male age-structured homosexuality. Geoffrey Gorer and others distinguish pederasty from pedophilia, which he defined as a separate, fourth type that he described as grossly pathological in all societies of which we have record..
The legal status of pederasty in most countries is determined by whether or not the boy has reached the local age of consent, and as to whether such contact is considered abusive to the child. Pederasty is the archetypal example of male age-structured homosexuality. Geoffrey Gorer and others distinguish pederasty from pedophilia, which he defined as a separate, fourth type that he described as grossly pathological in all societies of which we have record..