I marinated this flank steak overnight. It needs about 12–18 hours to soak in the flavors from the marinade, so leave enough time. If you decide to skip the marinade, season the steak per your preference. Cook the steak to: 120–125 degrees F for rare, 130–140 for medium rare, 140–150 for medium, 150–160 for medium well, and 160+ for well done. Of course, anything past medium may end up being chewy. 4. Let the broiled flank steak rest. Once the flank steak is to the desired temperature, which shouldn't take long since it is so thin, let it rest for 8–10 minutes. There may be some juices coming out, so put it on something to collect them
The next step is to put the flank steak on the grill. It’s recommended that you then grill the steak for approximately 10 minutes over coals that are medium-hot. While a grilling time of 10 minutes will give you a medium-rare steak, you may allow it to grill for a bit longer until the beef reaches the desired doneness. However long you decide to grill your flank steak, remember to turn it over as soon as the grilling time is halfway done.
1 Combine all ingrediants with flank steak in shallow container or zip lock and refrigerate for 4 hours or more. 2  Broil steak without onions for about 4 minutes (so onions do not burn). 3  Turn steak after 4 minutes and cover steak with onion mixture. 4  Broil to desired temperature. 5  Let steak cool for about 4 minutes. 1 Broil steak without onions for about 4 minutes (so onions do not burn). 2  Turn steak after 4 minutes and cover steak with onion mixture. 3  Broil to desired temperature. 4  Let steak cool for about 4 minutes. 5  Slice steak thinly across the grain.
4 When the steak has cooked to your preferred level of doneness, remove from the grill and place on a cutting board. Cover with aluminum foil to hold in the heat while the steak rests for 10 to 15 minutes. 5 Notice the direction of the muscle fibers of the steak; this is called the grain of the meat. Flank steak is a very lean cut that will be tough and chewy unless you cut it in a way that breaks up the muscle fibers. (You can also place the steak and marinade in a freezer bag and place it in a bowl.) Chill and marinate for at least 2 hours and up to overnight. 2 Prepare your grill for high, direct heat with one part of the grill for lower, indirect heat.
Prepare your oven and pan. Once your steak is ready to cook, set it aside. Adjust your oven rack so that the top of the steak will be about 4 inches (10cm) from the broiler heating element. Then turn the oven on to broil and preheat at 350f. 1. Broil your steak. Place your steak into the oven on the rack closest to the broiler. Cooking times will vary greatly based on the cut of steak, cooking altitude, type of oven you're using, and how hot the broiler runs; cooking times can range from 3 to 18 minutes.
1 Place the steak in a shallow dish or bowl, cover it in the marinade, and cover the dish with a lid or plastic wrap. 2  If you choose to marinate your steak,you should do so in the fridge (40°F (4.5°C) or below) to prevent foodborne illness if you are marinating for more than 30 minutes. 1. Broil your steak. Place your steak into the oven on the rack closest to the broiler. Cooking times will vary greatly based on the cut of steak, cooking altitude, type of oven you're using, and how hot the broiler runs; cooking times can range from 3 to 18 minutes.
3. Broil the flank steak. Lay the meat on the broiling pan so that it will be directly under the heat and positioned to get an even distribution. After 3–4 minutes, flip the flank steak over and broil the other side. Cook the steak to: 120–125 degrees F for rare, 130–140 for medium rare, 140–150 for medium, 150–160 for medium well, and 160+ for well done. Of course, anything past medium may end up being chewy. 4. Let the broiled flank steak rest. Once the flank steak is to the desired temperature, which shouldn't take long since it is so thin, let it rest for 8–10 minutes. There may be some juices coming out, so put it on something to collect them
Directions. Preheat oven broiler. Marinate flank steak in lime juice, salt and pepper. Do this right on the paper the steak comes wrapped in for easy clean up. Place on broiler pan and cook, turning once until medium rare, about 4 to 5 minutes per side. Remove to a cutting board to rest