Choose from 50 Liver Transplant Clinics in India and compare prices, patient reviews, and availability. Find the Best Price for Liver Transplant in India. Compare how much Liver Transplant cost at all 50 clinics and save money on your treatment. 
The cost of Liver Transplant Surgery in India varies between 10 to 30 Lacs Rupees (INR) which is about 1/6th of the cost of Liver Transplant Surgery abroad. A new Liver gives a new life and a well informed decision gives a successful Liver Transplant and complete satisfaction to the patient. 1 (3) Those who need Liver Transplant and come to India after detailed Video consultation. 2  Their Liver Transplant is successful, low cost, affordable, by the best surgeons, in the best hospital and their experience is positive and smooth.
1 For patients covered by health insurance, out-of-pocket costs for a liver transplant typically consist of doctor visit, lab and prescription drug copays as well as coinsurance of 10%-50% for surgery and other procedures, which can easily reach the yearly out-of-pocket maximum. 1 For patients not covered by health insurance, a liver transplant typically costs up to $575,000 or more for the procedure, including follow-up care and medications for the first six months after the procedure.
The Cost of Liver Transplant in India varies from Rs.12 Lac to Rs.30 Lac. The Cost of Liver Transplant depends on Hospital, Surgeon and many other factors and variables. Proper knowledge of the process of Liver Transplant can reduce this cost effectively. In addition, there is a recurring expenditure after transplant of around Rs. 20,000 pm for the first 4-6 months, Rs. 12-15,000 pm for the next 6 months and Rs. 8-12,000 pm thereafter. Some of the factors which increase the cost of Liver Transplant in India and China are:
The Cost of Liver Transplant in India varies from Rs.10 Lac to Rs.30 Lac. The Cost of Liver Transplant depends on Hospital, Surgeon and many other variables. Some of the factors which increase the cost of Liver Transplant are: 
1 If a transplanted liver begins to fail, it is sometimes possible for the patient to live long enough to get a second transplant. 2  Studies show that about 32% of livers from deceased donors fail within five years, and about 46% within 10 years. 1 For patients not covered by health insurance, a liver transplant typically costs up to $575,000 or more for the procedure, including follow-up care and medications for the first six months after the procedure.
As of 2002, the cost of a liver transplant in the United States averaged about $250,000 for immediate hospital and doctor expenses. Necessary pre-and post-operative expenses brought the total to about $314,500. In some cases Medicare provides coverage for liver transplants for some causes of liver failure. The length of time a person may wait for a liver transplant varies, depending on the availability of a compatible donor. The time may be as short as several months to a year or as long as four years. As of September 2003, there were 17,327 candidates on the national waiting list, waiting for a liver transplant.
Time and Cost. You need to come to India 2-3 weeks prior the scheduled transplant to complete the pre-operative requirements and after the surgery about 7-8 weeks are required. So a total stay of 10-11 weeks is required for kidney transplant in India. 
1 According to TransplantLiving.org, total costs for a kidney transplant from the month before the transplant through the six months of anti-rejection drugs typically reach more than $575,000, including more than $20,000 for the medications. 1 For patients not covered by health insurance, a liver transplant typically costs up to $575,000 or more for the procedure, including follow-up care and medications for the first six months after the procedure.
The patient needs to take medicines for the rest of his life to prevent rejection of the new liver. The cost of medicines and the investigations in the first year is approximately Rs 10-15000/-. The number of medicines and the frequency of blood investigations are much less after the first year of liver transplantation. The cost of liver transplantation in India is one twentieth when compared to USA, UK and other European Countries