noun determination, resolution, pluck, stamina, grit, endurance, tenacity, diligence, perseverance, constancy, steadfastness, doggedness, pertinacity, indefatigability, tirelessness Skill comes only with practice, patience and persistence.n. 1. the quality of persisting; tenacity. 2. the act of persisting; continued effort or existence. 3. the continuance of an effect after the cause of it has stopped: persistence of vision.ee Also: 1  As headstrong as an allegory on the banks of the Nile —Richard Brinsley Sheridan. ( 2 Sorrow) as nagging as envy —Karl Shapiro. ( 3 The name was becoming) a teasing obsession, like a tune —Wilfrid Sheed.
noun. Persistence is continuing to try, an effect that continues even after the cause has been removed or something that sticks around for a long time. 1  An example of persistence is when you try and try to learn a new skill, never giving up. (1) In a CRT, the time a phosphor dot remains illuminated after being energized. Long-persistence phosphors reduce flicker, but generate ghost-like images that linger on screen for a fraction of a second. (2) In object technology, the storage of an object on a disk or other permanent storage device.
1. : the quality that allows someone to continue doing something or trying to do something even though it is difficult or opposed by other people. He admired her dogged persistence in pursuing the job. His persistence in asking for a raise was finally rewarded. She has shown a lot of persistence.
noun per·sis·tence \pər-ˈsis-tən(t)s, -ˈzis-\. Tweet. : the quality that allows someone to continue doing something or trying to do something even though it is difficult or opposed by other people. : the state of occurring or existing beyond the usual, expected, or normal time. Full Definition of PERSISTENCE. 1. : the action or fact of persisting. 2. : the quality or state of being persistent; especially: perseverance. See persistence defined for English-language learners. See persistence defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
1 An example of persistence is when you try and try to learn a new skill, never giving up. 2  An example of persistence is when a marital problem doesn't go away even after the divorce is finalized.1) In a CRT, the time a phosphor dot remains illuminated after being energized. Long-persistence phosphors reduce flicker, but generate ghost-like images that linger on screen for a fraction of a second. (2) In object technology, the storage of an object on a disk or other permanent storage device.
persistence-Computer Definition. (1) In a CRT, the time a phosphor dot remains illuminated after being energized. Long-persistence phosphors reduce flicker, but generate ghost-like images that linger on screen for a fraction of a second. (2) In object technology, the storage of an object on a disk or other permanent storage device.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: persistence (Noun). The property of being persistent. You've got to admire his persistence, he's asked her out every day for a month even though she keeps turning him down. persistence (Noun). Of data, continuing to exist after the execution of the program. Once written to a disk file the data has persistence, it will still be there tomorrow when we run the next program
In computer science, persistence refers to the characteristic of state that outlives the process that created it. This is achieved in practice by storing the state as data in computer data storage.ersistence is said to be  orthogonal  or transparent when it is implemented as an intrinsic property of the execution environment of a program.
persistence-the act of persisting or persevering; continuing or repeating behavior; his perseveration continued to the point where it was no longer appropriate. perseverance, perseveration. continuance, continuation-the act of continuing an activity without interruption.ee Also: 1  As headstrong as an allegory on the banks of the Nile —Richard Brinsley Sheridan. ( 2 Sorrow) as nagging as envy —Karl Shapiro. ( 3 The name was becoming) a teasing obsession, like a tune —Wilfrid Sheed.