Whey is absorbed at a rate of about 8 grams to 10 grams per hour, according to Kollias. This is a much higher rate compared to casein protein, which may absorb at a rate of less than 5 grams per hour. However, this doesn’t factor in protein used by the body for energy or proteins simply not absorbed by your body. So, 20 grams to 25 grams of whey protein following each workout may be optimal.
Egg (medium-absorbing). Egg protein is found in [you guessed it] eggs. These proteins take about one and a half to three hours to absorb into your body (medium absorption rate). As a side note, careful nutritional inspection will reveal that egg yolks are quite good for you too. Here is a comparison between egg white and egg yolk. 1 Egg protein take longer to absorb than whey protein. 2  Eggs also contain several B vitamins required for energy production (good way to start your day full of energy). 3  I don’t want to drink protein powders all day. 4  Eggs is one of the best fat burning foods.
Kollias states that you can absorb a maximum of 8 to 10 grams of whey protein per hour, and it takes about an hour and a half for whey to become absorbed within the digestive tract. Your body can partially digest whey within 15 to 30 minutes of drinking it. One reason whey protein is one of the most sought-after supplements on the market is because it works fast.
The next step in protein metabolism occurs once the amino acids make it into the blood stream. Your body does various things with them, such as tissue growth and repair, and it can temporarily store (up to about 24 hours or so) excess amino acids in muscle for future needs. As you can see, it’s impossible to put a cap on how much protein your body can absorb in one meal. It’s definitely a hell of a lot more than the 20–30 grams that some people claim. You probably also noticed that protein timing isn’t as important as some people think, either.
This would suggest, at first glance, that the original “30 grams of protein per sitting” figure is close to correct. If you can only absorb, say, 7 grams of protein per hour, and the bolus of digested protein and other foods takes 4 to 5 hours to wind its way through the intestine, you’re gonna absorb maybe 28-35 grams. 
We’ve already learned that it takes time for whey to be absorbed. But whey and enzymes together had much higher amino acid levels after 4 hours. Remember that without any enzymes there was only a paltry 30% increase in amino acid levels. With 2.5 grams of enzymes, amino acid levels were 110% higher after 4 hours. Turns out that it takes 1.5 hours for viscous liquids (e.g. a whey protein shake) to pass through the section of the gut that can actually absorb it. But that’s not the breaking news. Here’s the big story. The maximum rate that whey protein can be absorbed is about 8-10 grams per hour
Furthermore, if we look at the amount of protein used in the above study relative to body weight, it comes out to about 1.17g/kg. Apply that to a man weighing 80 kilograms (176 pounds), and you get about 94 grams of protein in one sitting. While this isn’t definitive scientific proof, it’s food for thought. As you can see, it’s impossible to put a cap on how much protein your body can absorb in one meal. It’s definitely a hell of a lot more than the 20–30 grams that some people claim. You probably also noticed that protein timing isn’t as important as some people think, either.
Whey Protein-takes about 20 minutes to absord maybe less Casein Protein-this is a slow burning protein so it takes between 6 and 8 hours to absorb Chicken Breast may take 2 or 3 hours give or take an hour or so and to your tuna and baked potato question the protein should be absorbed fully. ...... · 5 years ago. My blood sugar level is stabilized through the proteins in these vegetarian sources of protein. I'm not sure about animal protein, however, I encourage you to reconsider eating these foods. Chicken is particularly risky because of the handling of chickens, bacteria, viruses, and hormones.
Amount. Based on the research of Dr. Kollias, 15 grams of whey protein per serving is the ideal amount to consume. It maximizes the amount of the whey your body can digest and absorb in a 1.5 hour period. However, this doesn’t factor in protein used by the body for energy or proteins simply not absorbed by your body. So, 20 grams to 25 grams of whey protein following each workout may be optimal.