Armor in the shoulders, elbows, and knees of your riding gear helps protect you, but not just any armor. The CE standard for protective motorcycle gear was created by a broad group of industry and medical consultants in Europe.
If the pads in your gear are marked with the CE logo, but not with EN1621-1 or -2, they might be approved for some other purpose like skateboarding or bicycling, and probably won’t protect you as well as the right armor. If they don’t have any markings at all, get your hands on some real CE-approved armor.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Tpmath. Confidence votes 12.4K. I don't recognise this, but if ce is actually CE then it means that the armour meets standards set by the European Community.
CE approved motorbike body armour. Every biker knows that protection is key and our vast range of motorcycle body armour gives you a choice of just about every brand on the market. As well as armour from all of the major clothing brands, we also work with the specialists in protection, Forcefield and Knox.
It is an abbrevation for Common Era and is an alternative to the  naming of the calendar era of AD. BCE (Before Common Era) and CE  are the numerical equivalents of the ca … lendar eras of BC (Before  Christ) and AD ('Anno Domini'). 632 CE means the same as 632 AD.
Common Era (also known as Christian Era and Current Era; abbreviated CE) is a designation for the period of time beginning with year 1 of the proleptic Gregorian calendar. An … earlier date is then designated BCE, described as Before the Common, Christian, or Current Era.
What does ce mean in ce approved armor? already exists. already exists as an alternate of this question. exists and is an alternate of. What surprised you most about the field? In 632 CE what does the CE mean? What does CE mean? What is the meaning of 499 CE? What does ce mean in history? What is CE mean? What does qu'est-ce-qu'on fait ce soir ...
CE armor is a type of padding required by European specifications. It is usually found in the knees, elbows, shoulders and sometimes the spine area of motorcycle jackets. It is designed to crush on impact and to provide padding in the same way that a helmet protects the head.