£15,000 + per year. As an accounting technician, you would deal with accounting and finance matters in all types of businesses. In larger companies you would work as part of an accounts team. In a smaller firm you might be responsible for dealing with all wages and invoices
Fantastic new job opportunity for a Senior Accounting Technician in Rathcoole in Dublin. Duties include: 1. Preparation of monthly financial accounts to trial balance. Produce P&L and Balance Sheet to deadline. Preparation of Monthly packs e.g. aged debtors, bank rec, foreign payments, customer sales etc. 2. Accounting Technicians Ireland. September 18 at 8:58am ·. ...
Accounting Technicians Ireland. ... See More. Superb new job opportunity for an Accounting Technician in Dublin 24. Accounting Technicians Ireland. September 18 at 8:58am ·. ...
(Ireland). An Accounting Technician earns an average salary of €26,047 per year. For the first five to ten years in this position, pay increases modestly, but any additional experience does not have a big effect on pay. A skill in Accounting is associated with high pay for this job. €19,614 - €35,293
Average Accounting Technician salaries for job postings nationwide are 31% lower than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
Pay by Experience Level for Accounting Technician. Median of all compensation (including tips, bonus, and overtime) by years of experience. People who have worked for fewer than five years bring home $34K on average. Median compensation in the five-to-10 year group, however, is higher at approximately $37K. (United States). Median pay for Accounting Technicians in the United States lies in the neighborhood of $16.71 per hour. The pay spectrum stretches from $12.34 per hour to $22.18.
Accounting Technicians Ireland. September 15 at 9:35am ·. ... See More. Great job opportunity for a Trainee Accounting Technician as an Accounts / Data Entry Assistant. Accounting Technicians Ireland. September 18 at 8:58am ·. ...
They may also assist a certified public accountant (CPA) with preparation of a business's yearly or quarterly taxes. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), accounting clerks, along with auditing and bookkeeping clerks, earned a median salary of $35,730 as of 2013. The postal service was the highest-paying industry for accounting clerks at that time, offering an average annual salary of $59,280. 
Exclusive new job opportunity for an Accounting Technician in Kildare! Our client in Maynooth draws on a heritage of over 200 years commitment to education and scholarship. The last two decades have seen the University grow rapidly in scale, strength and stature. Accounting Technicians Ireland. September 18 at 8:58am ·. ...