For this reason, capillaries are known as exchange vessels. Groups of capillaries within a tissue reunite to form small veins called venules. Venules collect blood from capillaries and drain into veins. Veins are the blood vessels that carry blood back to the heart. They may contain valves which stop blood flowing away from the heart. A blood vessel's main function is to transport blood around the body. Blood vessels also play a role in controlling your blood pressure. Blood vessels are found throughout the body. There are five main types of blood vessels: arteries, arterioles, capillaries, venules and veins.
Veins are blood vessels that transport blood to the heart. With the exception of the pulmonary vein, they carry deoxygenated blood. They have three layers in their walls as well. The main difference is that there is less smooth muscle in the middle layer and less connective tissue in the outer layer. Describe the 4 functions of the cardiovascular system. 1. Contractions of the heart generate blood pressure which moves blood through the blood vessels. 2. Blood vessels transport blood from the heart to the arteries, capillaries, and veins. Blood then returns to the heart. 3. Gas exchange occurs in the capillaries.
They connect the tiny muscular branches of arteries, called ... Click to read more below. The blood capillaries are where the important functions of the circulation take place: the exchange of material between circulation and cells. Capillaries are the smallest of the body's blood vessels. 
It is here where molecules are exchanged between the blood and the interstitial fluid. The interstitial fluid is the liquid that has been forced by pressure from the capillaries, has gathered in the tissue spaces, and surrounds the cells of the tissues of the body. Most of the bodies cells are within 0.02 mm (a very short distance) of a capillary.
1 Arteries-transport blood away from the heart. 2  Veins-transport blood to the heart. 3  Capillary-transport blood from arteries to the veins. 4  Sinusoids-vessels found in certain organs including the liver, spleen, and bone marrow. Blood Vessels. 1 
Capillaries (/ˈkaepɨlɛriz/ ˈkæpɨlɛriz IN; /us/ kəˈpɪləriz IN) uk are the smallest of a'body s blood (vessels and lymph) vessels that make up the. microcirculation Blood flows from the heart through arteries, which branch and narrow into arterioles, and then branch further into capillaries where nutrients and wastes are exchanged.
The flow of blood in the capillaries is controlled by structures called precapillary sphincters. These structures are located between arterioles and capillaries and contain muscle fibers that allow them to contract. When the sphincters are open, blood flows freely to the capillary beds of body tissue. Blood Vessels. 1  Arteries-transport blood away from the heart. 2  Veins-transport blood to the heart. 3  Capillary-transport blood from arteries to the veins. 4  Sinusoids-vessels found in certain organs including the liver, spleen, and bone marrow.
Capillaries are where fluids, gasses, nutrients, and wastes are exchanged between the blood and body tissues by diffusion. Capillary walls contain small pores that allow certain substances to pass into and out of the blood vessel. Blood Vessels. 1  Arteries-transport blood away from the heart. 2  Veins-transport blood to the heart. 3  Capillary-transport blood from arteries to the veins. 4  Sinusoids-vessels found in certain organs including the liver, spleen, and bone marrow.
A capillary is an extremely small blood vessel located within the tissues of the body, that transports blood from arteries to veins. Capillaries are most abundant in tissues and organs that are metabolically active. Blood Vessels. 1  Arteries-transport blood away from the heart. 2  Veins-transport blood to the heart. 3  Capillary-transport blood from arteries to the veins. 4  Sinusoids-vessels found in certain organs including the liver, spleen, and bone marrow.