Administrative law encompasses laws and legal principles governing the administration and regulation of government agencies (both Federal and state). Such agencies are delegated power by Congress (or in the case of a state agency, the state legislature) to act as agents for the executive. Branch of law governing the creation and operation of administrative agencies. Of special importance are the powers granted to administrative agencies, the substantive rules that such agencies make, and the legal relationships between such agencies, other government bodies, and the public at large.
DragonImages/iStock/Getty Images. An executive administrator, often called an executive assistant, is an administrative professional who provides clerical, operational and personal support to an executive level manager. Candidates for the role of executive administrator must possess a high school diploma or its equivalent. Additionally, many employers give preference to those who possess a four-year degree.
A secretary, personal assistant, or administrative assistant is a person whose work consists of supporting management, including executives, using a variety of project management, communication, or organizational skills. An executive assistant differs from an administrative assistant (a job which is often part of the career path of an executive assistant) in that they are expected to possess a higher degree of business acumen, be able to manage projects, as well as have the ability to influence others on behalf of the executive.
Full Definition of EXECUTIVE. 1. : the executive branch of a government; also: the person or persons who constitute the executive magistracy of a state. 2. : a directing or controlling office of an organization. 3. : one that exercises administrative or managerial control. : relating to the job of managing or directing other people in a company or organizaton. : of, relating to, or used by the people who manage or direct a company or organization. : responsible for making sure laws are carried out and for managing the affairs of a nation.
For U.S. military staff title, see Chief of staff. Administrative Assistant is a broad job category that designates an individual who provides various kinds of administrative support to people and groups in business enterprises. Documentation Administrative assistants may also help office members with documentation. Aside from storing, organizing and managing files, assistants may need to type, edit and proofread documents. Some assistants may need to take dictation or record the minutes of meetings.
Full Definition of ADMINISTRATIVE. : of or relating to administration or an administration: executive. — ad·min·is·tra·tive·ly adverb. See administrative defined for English-language learners. Learn More About ADMINISTRATIVE. Thesaurus: All synonyms and antonyms for administrative. Spanish Central: Spanish translation of administrative. Nglish: Translation of administrative for Spanish speakers. Britannica English: Translation of administrative for Arabic speakers.
Relating to the running of a business, organization, etc. administrative problems administrative staff. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  His tactical skill was matched by administrative and organizational ability. 2  The final part of the administrative organization is the Head of Division or Unit. 
In addition, the executive assistant will also perform similar responsibilities as an administrative assistant, involving research, communications, correspondence, and office management. In some organizations, the executive assistant will attend meetings or conferences in place of the executive. The executive assistant was very helpful in administering the training materials needed for the group of new hires this week. 7 people found this helpful. The difference between a competent administrative assistant and a stellar executive assistant has been said to be approximately a three inch higher skirt hemline.