According to the image below, ' racist is a made up word by Leon Trotsky in 1927'. I searched in Online Etymology Dictionary and found that. racist 1932 as a noun, 1938 as an adjective, from race (n.2); racism is first attested 1936 (from French racisme, 1935), originally in the context of Nazi theories. The term as used in the picture you show seems to have a different connotation from the more common one: The Oxford English Dictionary's first recorded utterance of the word racism was by a man named Richard Henry Pratt in 1902. Pratt was railing against the evils of racial segregation.
Racism, thus defined, is a modern conception, for prior to the XVIth century there was virtually nothing in the life and thought of the West that can be described as racist. To prevent misunderstanding a clear distinction must be made between racism and ethnocentrism ... In the 19th century, some scientists subscribed to the belief that the human population is divided into races, that some races were inferior to others, and that differential treatment of races was consequently justified. Such theories are generally termed scientific racism.
For somebody trying to win a popularity contest in the short term, rather than inform and educate for the long term, it makes perfect sense to try to keep one's own positions obscure.) The legend that Leon Trotsky coined the word racist offers a basis for that kind of rhetoric. Trotsky is not responsible for the fact that the word racist has been given a negative connotation in the English language. Anti-racists, especially in mass-media, are responsible for that.
The second usage of the term in English that the OED records is in the title of a book originally written in German in 1933 and 1934 but translated into English and first published in 1938 – Racism by Magnus Hirschfeld, translated by Eden and Cedar Paul. The range of the erudition in the OED is often astounding, but for. readers, one of its most interesting entries is for the word “racism.”. According to the second edition (1989) of the OED, the earliest known usage of the word “racism” in English occurred in a 1936 book by the American “fascist,” Lawrence Dennis, .
Meaning of the term. There is great disagreement as to what the term racism means. Disputed positions on the term include: 1  Racism requires prejudice plus power, and thus racial minorities cannot be racist. 2  Racism includes any recognition of race, even without any belief in superiority. 3  Racism includes desire for racial separation.
In his History of the Russian Revolution Trotsky applied the word racist to Slavophiles, who opposed Communism. Just from the word's etymology (the word race with a suffix added) it is not immediately apparent why this word is supposed to be inherently derogatory. Trotsky is not responsible for the fact that the word racist has been given a negative connotation in the English language. Anti-racists, especially in mass-media, are responsible for that.
Racism is a word coined by a notorious homosexual activist. CofCC.org News Team. The following is about the origin of the word “racism” and how it was coined by a homosexual activist who admired Joseph Stalin. The article is written by the late Sam Francis, who was editor of the CofCC newspaper and a member of the CofCC Board of Directors before his untimely death. The Origins of “Racism” – the curious beginnings of a useless word. by Dr. Sam Francis. The Oxford English Dictionary is a multivolume reference work that is one of Western scholarship’s most remarkable achievements — the standard dictionary of the English language on what are known as “historical principles”.
Library of Congress. Richard Henry Pratt was the first person the Oxford English Dictionary records using the word racism, in a speech decrying it. But his own legacy on race is checkered. The Oxford English Dictionary 's first recorded utterance of the word racism was by a man named Richard Henry Pratt in 1902. Pratt was railing against the evils of racial segregation.
A piece for National Public Radio (Gene Demby, The Ugly, Fascinating History of the Word 'Racism', 6 January 2014) cites the Oxford English Dictionary to the effect that the first use of the word racism (in English) was by Richard Pratt in 1902, five years after Malato's use of raciste and racisme in French. Trotsky is not responsible for the fact that the word racist has been given a negative connotation in the English language. Anti-racists, especially in mass-media, are responsible for that.
Origin of the term racism. An urban legend has developed in certain quarters that the term racism was coined by Leon Trotsky, which proves that talking about racism is a Communist strategy to destroy America and freedom. Disputed positions on the term include: 1  Racism requires prejudice plus power, and thus racial minorities cannot be racist. 2  Racism includes any recognition of race, even without any belief in superiority. 3  Racism includes desire for racial separation.