Becoming a medical biller is often a good first step into an accounting career. The billing expertise developed in a hospital or medical office is also transferable to other fields that have complicated billing procedures, like law, shipping, or wholesale distribution. But of all these industries, fully one third of all billers are medical billers.
Salary Information for a Dental Biller. According to Payscale.com, most dental insurance billers working in September 2014 earned salaries between $22,200 and $52,041 a year, or $11.09 and $21.21 an hour. People who pursue this career must have a good eye for detail because dental billers write and review individual patient's billing information and procedure data. Communication is essential; workers must be able to explain insurance claims and billing information to patients.
How to become a Medical Biller. To become a medical biller, the most basic requirement is a high school degree. However, more and more companies look for employees to have some college education related to either health or to general accounting practices. Medical billers are responsible for processing and outputting medical bills. The billing expertise developed in a hospital or medical office is also transferable to other fields that have complicated billing procedures, like law, shipping, or wholesale distribution. But of all these industries, fully one third of all billers are medical billers.
To qualify for the CDC-S™ Exam you will be required to have the following 1  : Current ADCA Membership in good standing. 2  High School Diploma or Equalivent. 3  Proof of three years experience in Facility or Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery billing and coding. Certified Dental Billing Specialist (CDBS™) Examination Guidelines. To qualify for the CDBS™ Exam you will be required to have the following 1  : Current ADCA Membership in good standing. 2  High School Diploma or Equalivent. 3  2 year experience in dental billing. 4  Successful completion of the 12 week online course may substitute for the 2 years experience
Employers of dental billers also seek those who have experience in the dental industry in positions such as dental assistant, clerical assistant in a dentist's office or other related jobs. A career in dental billing requires the employee to spend the majority of the day working on the computer and making phone calls. People who pursue this career must have a good eye for detail because dental billers write and review individual patient's billing information and procedure data. Communication is essential; workers must be able to explain insurance claims and billing information to patients.
After you receive your Medical Billing diploma, you will be prepared to work in any medical or office setting. The Medical Biller profession is listed as one of the U.S. Department of Labor's Bright Outlook occupations.
Educational and Career Requirements. Many employers require that prospective dental billers have a minimum of a high school diploma to be eligible this type of position. There are also training programs available in medical billing, such as a medical billing and coding specialist certificate program. People who pursue this career must have a good eye for detail because dental billers write and review individual patient's billing information and procedure data. Communication is essential; workers must be able to explain insurance claims and billing information to patients.
Receive the best training you need to become a successful Medical Biller and get certified to work in any medical setting. Jannette A. Personal Fitness Trainer. What I like about this class is that it is very interactive. I originally wanted to take this course online, but I am happy to have chosen this program instead. The Medical Biller profession is listed as one of the U.S. Department of Labor's Bright Outlook occupations.