Sometimes men with gonorrhea get painful or swollen testicles. Overview: Neisseria gonorrhoeae is a Gram-negative, aerobic, non-motile, non-spore-forming diplococcus bacterium and a member of the family Neisseriaceae of the β subclass of the class Proteobacteria (Figure 1). There are three main types of outer membrane proteins found in N. gonorrhoeae, namely, porins or protein I (denoted Por), outer membrane opacity proteins (denoted Opa), and reduction modifiable protein (denote Rmp).
Neisseria gonorrhoeae, also known as gonococci (plural), or gonococcus (singular), is a species of Gram-negative coffee bean-shaped diplococci bacteria responsible for the sexually transmitted infection gonorrhea. To be specific, they grow on chocolate agar with carbon dioxide. These cocci are facultatively intracellular and typically appear in pairs (diplococci), in the shape of coffee beans. Of the eleven species of Neisseria that colonize humans, only two are pathogens.
Neisseria is a large genus of bacteria that colonize the mucosal surfaces of many animals. Of the 11 species that colonize humans, only two are pathogens, N. meningitidis and N. gonorrhoeae systemic disease. Neisseria species are Gram-negative bacteria included among the proteobacteria, a large group of Gram-negative forms. Neisseria diplococci resemble coffee beans when viewed microscopically.
Neisseria gonorrhoeae does not thrive in the environment and grows in a CO 2 environment, therefore, the urethra, cervix, rectum, and throat are the main sites of infection. Once the gonococci gain entrance into the mucous membranes of these areas, they target columnar non-ciliated epithelial cells. Neisseria gonorrhoeae. by Yen Lemire. Introduction. Neisseria gonorrhoeae is the obligate human pathogen that causes the sexually transmitted disease (STD) gonorrhea. This Gram-negative diplococci/gonococci does not infect other animals or experimental animals and does not survive freely in the environment
Neisseria are fastidious Gram-negative cocci that require nutrient supplementation to grow in laboratory cultures. To be specific, they grow on chocolate agar with carbon dioxide. These cocci are facultatively intracellular and typically appear in pairs (diplococci), in the shape of coffee beans. Of the eleven species of Neisseria that colonize humans, only two are pathogens.
Neisseria gonorrhoeae is a gram-negative coccus, or bacteria whose overall shape is spherical. It is usually seen in pairs with adjacent sides flattened. Ecology. Neisseria gonorrhoeae is the cause of the sexually transmitted disease gonorrhea. It natural environment is in the human body and it only known for its pathogenic characteristic. Neisseria gonorrhoeae is not used for any known biotechnology.
Sometimes Neisseria gonorrhoeae can enter the bloodstream causing a Gram-negative bacteremia which may lead to a disseminated bacterial infection. Strains of N. gonorrhoeae that cause disseminated infections are usually resistant to complement and the serum bactericidal reaction. Ecology. Neisseria gonorrhoeae is the cause of the sexually transmitted disease gonorrhea. It natural environment is in the human body and it only known for its pathogenic characteristic. Neisseria gonorrhoeae is not used for any known biotechnology.
Introduction. Neisseria gonorrhoeae, also known as gonococcus (GC), is a gram-negative diplococcus which is one of the most common sexually transmitted microorganisms, and causes gonorrhea. Gonorrhea cervicitis, courtesy of CDC PHIL #4087. Humans are the only natural reservoir of N. gonorrhoeae, and transmission is primarily sexual
Gonorrhea is a very common infectious bacterium, a Gram negative, fastidious, diplococci, that can grow and rapidly multiply in the mucous membranes, especially the mouth, throat, and anus of males and females, and the cervix, fallopian tubes, and uterus of the female reproductive tract. 