Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Cut off the brown ends of the Brussels sprouts and pull off any yellow outer leaves. Mix them in a bowl with the olive oil, salt and pepper. Pour them on a sheet pan and roast for 35 to 40 minutes, until crisp on the outside and tender on the inside. Shake the pan from time to time to brown the sprouts evenly.
Directions. Preheat oven to 450 degrees. Bring a medium saucepan of salted water to a boil over high heat. Add Brussels sprouts and cook for 2 minutes. Drain and transfer to a bowl lined with a clean kitchen towel; pat dry to remove any excess moisture. Remove towel and season Brussels sprouts with salt and pepper. Drizzle with olive oil and toss to coat
1 Preheat oven to 400 ° F. 2  Toss together Brussels sprouts, garlic cloves, olive oil, lemon pepper, and salt; spread on a baking sheet. 3  Roast for 20-25 minutes or until garlic and Brussels sprouts are tender. 4  Toss with Parmesan cheese and serve. Directions. 1 
Preparation. 1  Heat oven to 450 degrees. 2  Trim bottom of brussels sprouts, and slice each in half top to bottom. 3  Heat oil in cast-iron pan over medium-high heat until it shimmers; put sprouts cut side down in one layer in pan. 4  Put in garlic, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. 1 Put in garlic, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. 2  Cook, undisturbed, until sprouts begin to brown on bottom, and transfer to oven. 3  Cook, shaking pan occasionally, until sprouts are quite brown and tender, about 1/2 hour. 4  Taste, and add more salt and pepper if necessary. 5  Stir in balsamic vinegar, and serve hot or warm.
Roasted Garlic Brussels Sprouts. Heat 2 tablespoons olive oil in a small skillet over medium heat; add 2 chopped garlic cloves and 1/2 teaspoon each cumin seeds and kosher salt and cook 2 minutes. Stir in 1 tablespoon brown sugar, the juice of 1/2 lemon and a pinch of red pepper flakes. Toss with 1 1/4 pounds halved Brussels sprouts on a baking sheet. Roast at 450 degrees F until tender, 18 to 24 minutes. Toss with torn cilantro. 
1 Trim bottom of brussels sprouts, and slice each in half top to bottom. 2  Heat oil in cast-iron pan over medium-high heat until it shimmers; put sprouts cut side down in one layer in pan. 3  Put in garlic, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. 4  Cook, undisturbed, until sprouts begin to brown on bottom, and transfer to oven. 1 Put in garlic, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. 2  Cook, undisturbed, until sprouts begin to brown on bottom, and transfer to oven. 3  Cook, shaking pan occasionally, until sprouts are quite brown and tender, about 1/2 hour. 4  Taste, and add more salt and pepper if necessary. 5  Stir in balsamic vinegar, and serve hot or warm.
1 Heat oven to 450 degrees. 2  Trim bottom of brussels sprouts, and slice each in half top to bottom. 3  Heat oil in cast-iron pan over medium-high heat until it shimmers; put sprouts cut side down in one layer in pan. 4  Put in garlic, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. 1 Put in garlic, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. 2  Cook, undisturbed, until sprouts begin to brown on bottom, and transfer to oven. 3  Cook, shaking pan occasionally, until sprouts are quite brown and tender, about 1/2 hour. 4  Taste, and add more salt and pepper if necessary. 5  Stir in balsamic vinegar, and serve hot or warm.
1 Heat 1 teaspoon butter and olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat; cook and stir garlic until golden brown, 3 to 5 minutes. 2  Add Brussels sprouts; toss to coat. 3  Stir in broth, salt, and black pepper; cover and cook until Brussels sprouts are tender, 12 to 14 minutes. 4  Drain liquid from pan. 1 Set sprouts aside. 2  Place bacon in a large skillet and cook over medium-high heat, turning occasionally, until evenly browned, about 10 minutes; drain and cool on paper towels. 3  Crumble. 4 
Method: Preheat oven to 400°F. Toss Brussels sprouts with oil, salt and pepper on a rimmed baking sheet and roast, stirring once or twice, until deep golden brown, crisp outside and tender inside, 30 to 35 minutes. The leaves that are loose will be especially brown and crispy. Transfer to a bowl and serve