The least violent type of volcanic eruption would be Strombolian  eruptions. Although the lava is sometimes thrown high into the air,  the eruptions are usually short lived. Aci … d-lava and composite volcanoes also cause the most violent eruptions as the lava is viscous and the opening of the volcano is sometimes blocked by hardened lava, causing a huge massive explosion during the eruption. 5 people found this useful
The most violent type of volcanic eruption is a Plinian eruption.  This is also one of the largest types of eruptions. This was the  type of eruption of the famed Mount Vesu … vius in 79 AD. 80% of the world's active volcanoes are found occur along destructive boundaries. Aci … d-lava and composite volcanoes also cause the most violent eruptions as the lava is viscous and the opening of the volcano is sometimes blocked by hardened lava, causing a huge massive explosion during the eruption.
The most common type of volcanic eruption occurs when magma (the term for lava when it is below the Earth's surface) is released from a volcanic vent. Eruptions can be effusive, where lava flows like a thick, sticky liquid, or explosive, where fragmented lava explodes out of a vent. Volcanologists classify eruptions into several different types. Some are named for particular volcanoes where the type of eruption is common; others concern the resulting shape of the eruptive products or the place where the eruptions occur. Here are some of the most common types of eruptions:
Hawaiian eruptions are a type of volcanic eruption, named after the Hawaiian volcanoes with which this eruptive type is hallmark. Hawaiian eruptions are the calmest types of volcanic events, characterized by the effusive eruption of very fluid basalt-type lavas with low gaseous content. There are two types of eruptions in terms of activity, explosive eruptions and effusive eruptions. Explosive eruptions are characterized by gas-driven explosions that propels magma and tephra. Effusive eruptions, meanwhile, are characterized by the outpouring of lava without significant explosive eruption.
The least violent type of volcanic eruption would be Strombolian  eruptions. Although the lava is sometimes thrown high into the air,  the eruptions are usually short lived. …. 80% of the world's active volcanoes are found occur along destructive boundaries. Aci … d-lava and composite volcanoes also cause the most violent eruptions as the lava is viscous and the opening of the volcano is sometimes blocked by hardened lava, causing a huge massive explosion during the eruption.
Best Answer: Strato-volcanoes, also known as composite cones, are the most violent types of volcanoes, and they can erupt unexpectedly and be very deadly. The pressure builds-up to an extent that there is literally an explosion, and lava and gases and incandescent bombs flow from the cone. 
Most Hawaiian eruptions would be a examples of this type of eruption. At the other extreme is the explosive ejection of ash from a vent. The May 18, 1980 Mount St. Helens eruption would be an example of this type of eruption. The two main factors that influence how a volcano will erupt are viscosity and gas content. 
A Vulcanian eruption is a short, violent, relatively small explosion of viscous magma (usually andesite, dacite, or rhyolite). This type of eruption results from the fragmentation and explosion of a plug of lava in a volcanic conduit, or from the rupture of a lava dome (viscous lava that piles up over a vent). Volcanologists classify eruptions into several different types. Some are named for particular volcanoes where the type of eruption is common; others concern the resulting shape of the eruptive products or the place where the eruptions occur. Here are some of the most common types of eruptions:
Several types of volcanic eruptions —during which lava, tephra (ash, lapilli, volcanic bombs and blocks), and assorted gases are expelled from a volcanic vent or fissure —have been distinguished by volcanologists. These are often named after famous volcanoes where that type of behavior has been observed. There are two types of eruptions in terms of activity, explosive eruptions and effusive eruptions. Explosive eruptions are characterized by gas-driven explosions that propels magma and tephra. Effusive eruptions, meanwhile, are characterized by the outpouring of lava without significant explosive eruption.