3. Hide your number through your device's settings. Many phones allow you to block your Caller ID information by changing the phone's settings. If your phone does not have the option to do this, then it is not allowed by your carrier, and you will have to try one of the previous steps. Steps. 1. Use a caller ID blocking prefix. In many countries, you can enter a code before you dial a number and your phone number will be blocked from appearing on the recipient's caller ID. The code varies depending on your country and your service provider, and it is not possible to block in all countries.
Usually, phone carriers offer unique codes that can be used to block your Caller ID on a Per-Call basis. So if for example you want to call the number 212-555-5555, all you need to do is find your “disabler” code and add it before the number you want to call, so it should look like this #31# 555-5555. There you will see the option Show My Caller ID. Switch it OFF and all your outgoing calls will have your number blocked until you re-enable the option to show it. Note: Some countries do not allow blocking your Caller ID. If the option is disabled on your iPhone, then most likely your country does not allow it.
Just like the iPhone, you can turn off Caller ID for all calls on Android if your carrier allows it. To disable it, go to Settings Phone Call Settings Additional Settings Caller ID. And, of course, if you want an easier option, there's an app for that. To block your number permanently from your iPhone's settings, go to Settings Phone Show My Caller ID and toggle the switch to OFF.
It is very possible for you to hide your phone number thorough your iPhone, thanks to the advancing technology. You can now hide your phone number, and make anonymous calls to as many people as you want, and never leave footprints of having called them in any way. This is the safest, and fastest way of hiding your caller id, especially if you doubt a number you are about to call. The other ways in which you can hide your caller id with your iPhone, is paying a visit to your phone service provider, and ask them for the service.
So, without further ado, let’s get to it. Step 1. First and foremost, you’ll want to fire up the Settings app from your iPhone’s home page. Step 2: Scroll down the Settings menu until you find Phone, which also has the phone icon logo alongside it. Step 3: Next, select the Show My Caller ID option. From here, all you need to do is hit the small toggle, and your caller ID will not be shown once you make any outgoing calls. But if, for example, you wish to make an enquiry with a company that you’re not familiar with or sure about, and don’t want to risk the chance of your digits being added to a spam calling list, then it’s also useful to be able to hide your number when making contact.
To block your Caller ID for all outgoing calls, on your iPhone, tap on Settings Phone. There you will see the option Show My Caller ID. Switch it OFF and all your outgoing calls will have your number blocked until you re-enable the option to show it. Note: Some countries do not allow blocking your Caller ID. If the option is disabled on your iPhone, then most likely your country does not allow it.
1 iPhone-Open the Settings app, tap Phone, tap Show My Caller ID, and then toggle the slider to ON. 2  Android 4.0 and earlier-Open the Settings app, tap Call, tap Additional settings, tap Caller ID, and then tap Hide number. Steps. 1. Use a caller ID blocking prefix. In many countries, you can enter a code before you dial a number and your phone number will be blocked from appearing on the recipient's caller ID. The code varies depending on your country and your service provider, and it is not possible to block in all countries.
If you want to use the setting in your iPhone to hide your caller identity, then here is how you can go about the same. The first thing you need to do, is browse through the phones call settings, and see if you can locate caller id notification. This is the safest, and fastest way of hiding your caller id, especially if you doubt a number you are about to call. The other ways in which you can hide your caller id with your iPhone, is paying a visit to your phone service provider, and ask them for the service.
You can block your Caller ID information so that your number does not appear on the recipient's phone. You can do this by using a special prefix, contacting your carrier, or by using the features on your device. See Step 1 below to learn how. Ad. Steps. 1. Use a caller ID blocking prefix. In many countries, you can enter a code before you dial a number and your phone number will be blocked from appearing on the recipient's caller ID. The code varies depending on your country and your service provider, and it is not possible to block in all countries.