Granite differs from granodiorite in that at least 35% of the feldspar in granite is alkali feldspar as opposed to plagioclase; it is the potassium feldspar that gives many granites a distinctive pink color. Granites can be predominantly white, pink, or gray in color, depending on their mineralogy. The word granite comes from the Latin granum, a grain, in reference to the coarse-grained structure of such a holocrystalline rock. By definition, granite is an igneous rock with at least 20% quartz and up to 65% alkali feldspar by volume
Classification of granites according their magmatic origin results in the formation of two contrasting groups, S-types and I-types. S-types result from the partial melting of metasedimentary source rocks, a process called anatexis or ultrametamorphism. S-type granites com from a source which has been subjected to this sedimentary fractionation. Hine et al (1978) used the Kosciusko Batholith to illustrate chemical differences between S-type and I-type granites. A Na2O/K2O plot of the Kosciusko batholith illustrates the fundamental chemical difference
Granite /ˈɡraenɨt/ ˈɡrænɨt is a common type of felsic intrusive igneous rock that is granular and phaneritic in. Texture granites can be predominantly, white, pink or gray in, color depending on their. mineralogy Granites can be predominantly white, pink, or gray in color, depending on their mineralogy. The word granite comes from the Latin granum, a grain, in reference to the coarse-grained structure of such a holocrystalline rock. By definition, granite is an igneous rock with at least 20% quartz and up to 65% alkali feldspar by volume.
A-type granites: magma sources and their contribution to the growth of the continental crust Eby, G.N. A-type granites are emplaced in either within plate anorogenic settings or in the final stages of an orogenic event (sometimes referred to as post-orogenic). Loiselle and Wones (1979) added the last letter, A, of the alphabet soup. The A-type (the A denoting anorogenic and/or anhydrous) granitoids occurred along rift zones and within stable continental blocks. The identification of A-type granitoids was based on both tectonic setting and chemical characteristics.
1 I-type Granites. 2  I-type granites are granites considered to have formed by melting of an original igneous type source. 3  These are generally metaluminous granites, expressed mineralogically by the absence of peraluminous minerals and the absence of peralkaline minerals, as discussed below. A wide variety of igneous rocks occur in the continental lithosphere, a reflection of its heterogeneous nature compared to oceanic lithosphere. In addition, because the continents are not subducted and are subject to uplift and erosion, older plutonic rocks are both preserved and accessible to study.
Chappell and White distinguish S-type and I-type granites using numerous chemical parameters. I-types have relatively high sodium, Na2O greater than 3.2% , in felsic varieties, decreasing to more than 2.2% in mafic types. S-type granites com from a source which has been subjected to this sedimentary fractionation. Hine et al (1978) used the Kosciusko Batholith to illustrate chemical differences between S-type and I-type granites. A Na2O/K2O plot of the Kosciusko batholith illustrates the fundamental chemical difference
The term granitic means granite-like and is applied to granite and a group of intrusive igneous rocks with similar textures and slight variations on composition and origin. Granites can be predominantly white, pink, or gray in color, depending on their mineralogy. The word granite comes from the Latin granum, a grain, in reference to the coarse-grained structure of such a holocrystalline rock. By definition, granite is an igneous rock with at least 20% quartz and up to 65% alkali feldspar by volume
It has been shown that the crustal S-type granites are compositionally restricted and the mantle I-type granites are compositionally expanded (Chappell and White, 1974). This is reflected by marked differences in geochemical parameters. S-type granites com from a source which has been subjected to this sedimentary fractionation. Hine et al (1978) used the Kosciusko Batholith to illustrate chemical differences between S-type and I-type granites. A Na2O/K2O plot of the Kosciusko batholith illustrates the fundamental chemical difference