So to have a hotspot, you only need to have a wireless router connected to a broadband Internet line. The router will generate the WiFi signals in a sphere and any WiFi-enabled computer or device in that sphere, which is finally the region of the hotspot, can connect while being inside it. Read more on WiFi. Definition: A hotspot, also commonly called a WiFi hotspot, is a small area in which one can get connection to the Internet or a LAN without wires, through WiFi. WiFi (also written Wi-Fi) is a wireless technology that allows LAN s to be set up without wires between devices
For users of portable computers equipped for wireless, a hot spot (or hotspot) is a wireless LAN (local area network) node that provides Internet connection and virtual private network (VPN) access from a given location. 
Novatel MiFi mobile hotspot. Pricegrabber. Definition: Mobile hotspots (a.k.a. portable hotspot or portable hot spot) are portable devices or features on smartphones that provide wireless Internet access on many devices (your laptop, smartphone, MP3 player, tablet, portable gaming device, etc.). Examples: The MiFi is a mobile hotspot that provides wireless Internet access from Verizon and other cellular providers on up to 5 devices.
WiFi Hotspots. A WiFi hotspot is simply an area with an accessible wireless network. The term is most often used to refer to wireless networks in public areas like airports and coffee shops. Some are free and some require fees for use, but in either case they can be handy when you are on the go.
Definition: A hotspot is any location where Wi-Fi network access (usually Internet access) is made publicly available. You can often find hotspots in airports, hotels, coffee shops, and other places where business people tend to congregate. 
Hotspots typically use Wi-Fi technology. Hotspots may be found in coffee shops and various other public establishments in many developed urban areas throughout the world. A hotspot is differentiated from a wireless access point, which is the hardware device used to provide the wireless network service. Hotspot 2.0 is based on the IEEE 802.11u standard, which is a set of protocols published in 2011 to enable cellular-like roaming. If the device supports 802.11u and is subscribed to a Hotspot 2.0 service it will automatically connect and roam.
Also Known As: mobile wi-fi hotspot, wi-fi hotspot, portable hotspot. Alternate Spellings: mobile hot spot. Examples: The MiFi is a mobile hotspot that provides wireless Internet access from Verizon and other cellular providers on up to 5 devices.
Definition: Wireless (or wi-fi) hotspots are essentially wireless access points providing network and/or Internet access to mobile devices like your laptop or smartphone, typically in public locations. 1 Wi-Fi Hotspot Security-Before You Connect to a Wi-Fi Hotspot. 2  International Wireless Internet Service: Wi-Fi Internet Access On the Go. 3  Mobile Internet Access Comparison: 3G, Wi-Fi, & Other Internet on the Go Options.