0 Hey Everyone. So I took my NCLEX-PN exam on March 25th, 2010 here in CALIFORNIA and found out through the Pearson Vue Trick that I failed. I'm waiting for my results, so that will say it all. But my questions at this point are: 
How to take the NCLEX-VN in California. Los Angeles, Fresno, San Diego, Sacramento, San Jose, Oakland, San Francisco, Santa Ana, Long Beach, Anaheim and more... 1) Register with the California Board of Nursing: California Board of Vocational Nursing and Psychiatric Technicians. 4) The California Nursing Board that you applied to will send you confirmation of your eligibility to take the test (this must be done within 365 days from your original registration). 5) Pearson Vue will send you an Authorization To Test (ATT). The exam must be taken in appx.
If you hold an Interim Permit, return it to this office IMMEDIATELY. Interim Permits are no longer valid once you receive the letter stating you did not pass your initial NCLEX-RN examination. 3. The National Council State Boards of Nursing has a 45-day retake provision for the NCLEX-RN exam. For information regarding the 45-day retake provision please visit their website at www.ncsbn.org. 4. Once found eligible, you will receive instructions on how to register with the NCLEX testing service.
Website: www.bvnpt.ca.gov. 2) Register to take the NCLEX test with Pearson Vue. Registration can be done by telephone, on the web, or by snail mail. 3) Pearson Vue will send you a confirmation of registration. 4) The California Nursing Board that you applied to will send you confirmation of your eligibility to take the test (this must be done within 365 days from your original registration). 5) Pearson Vue will send you an Authorization To Test (ATT). The exam must be taken in appx.
1 You will receive instructions on how to register to take the NCLEX-RN examination. 2  Basically, there are three eligibility requirements for taking the NCLEX exam: 3  Register with the Board of Nursing in the state for which you wish to be licensed. 1 The NCLEX exam itself costs approximately $200.00; this is paid to Pearson Vue at the time you register. 2  Each state has its own fee for licensure; this fee is due at the time of application. ( 3 In North Carolina, it is around $75.00 + $38.00 for Criminal Background Check through Live Scan.).
Pearson Vue will be notified by your State Board of Nursing when your application for licensure in that state has been received, and you are eligible to take the NCLEX exam. As with the State Board of Nursing application process, you can register with Pearson Vue at any time during your final semester of study. How much does it cost to take the exam? Answer: There is an application fee payable to the appropriate State Board of Nursing (the NY State Board of Nursing fee is currently $143.00) as well as a fee to Pearson VUE (currently $200.00).
Once your state board of nursing has verified your eligibility to take the NCLEX examination, you will receive an Authorization to Take the Test (ATT), along with a list of testing centers and instructions for how to schedule an appointment to take the examination. The cost to take the NCLEX is $200. NCLEX Eligibility & Registration. In order to take the NCLEX examination, you must apply for nursing license from your state board of nursing. That board will determine whether or not you meet its criteria for NCLEX examination-eligibility. You must then register to take the exam
5. How much does it cost to take the exam? Answer: There is an application fee payable to the appropriate State Board of Nursing (the NY State Board of Nursing fee is currently $143.00) as well as a fee to Pearson VUE (currently $200.00). 6
1 The NCLEX exam is administered by Pearson Vue. 2  There are over 200 locations in the U.S. and 18 locations internationally. 3  You can take the test at any Pearson Vue testing center, regardless of the state in which you will be licensed. 1 The NCLEX exam itself costs approximately $200.00; this is paid to Pearson Vue at the time you register. 2  Each state has its own fee for licensure; this fee is due at the time of application. ( 3 In North Carolina, it is around $75.00 + $38.00 for Criminal Background Check through Live Scan.).