There are also 'no quinine' brands of tonic water available if you are one of those who cannot tolerate quinine. Tonic water with quinine may be unsafe if you are on some kind of medication. It is likely that the quinine may interact with the other drugs and result in some very dangerous side effects. For instance, those on blood thinning medication should avoid the consumption of tonic water.
People who drink large quantities of tonic water or who have health problems that could be potentiated by quinine should be aware of possible side effects, including visual disturbances. Quinine can also cause hypoglycemia, confusion, rash, seizures, nausea, hearing disturbances, vision changes, chest pain or bleeding.
Considerations. Quinine has a number of potentially life-threatening side effects. Even though tonic water and flavored drinks containing tonic water contain only a fraction of the quinine found in prescription medications, they can cause problems.
Quinine is only approved for the treatment of malaria. Tonic water contains quinine but it does not have enough quinine to help with leg cramps. Common side effects associated with quinine can include headache, nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, hives, fever, ringing in the ears, vision problems, and bleeding problems.
Common Side Effects. Excessively drinking tonic water may cause diarrhea, nausea, stomach cramps, vomiting, and restlessness. These side effects may be made worse when tonic water is paired with alcohol.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking quinine, check with your doctor immediately: 1  Diarrhea. 2  nausea. 3  stomach cramps or pain. 4  vomiting. 5  Anxiety. 6  behavior change, similar to drunkenness. 7  black, tarry stools. 8  blood in the urine or stools. 9  blurred vision or change in vision.
Although quinine has been used for hundreds of years to control symptoms of malaria, some people are very sensitive to side effects, even in the low doses found in a glass of tonic water (about 20 mg). Another reader reported: “I have been suffering with leg cramps for years and years.