Writers tend to agree that authenticity is something to be pursued as a goal intrinsic to the good life.. And yet it is often described as an intrinsically difficult state to achieve, due in part to social pressures to live inauthentically, and in part due to a person's own character. Authenticity, according to Kierkegaard, is reliant on an individual finding authentic faith and becoming true to oneself. Kierkegaard develops the idea that news media and the bourgeois church-Christianity present challenges for an individual in society trying to live authentically.
Besides being a topic in philosophical debates, authenticity is also a pervasive ideal that impacts social and political thinking. In fact, one distinctive feature of recent Western intellectual developments has been a shift to what is called the “age of authenticity” (Taylor 2007; Ferrarra 1998). The growing appeal of the idea of authenticity has led to the emergence of a highly influential modern “ethic of authenticity” (Ferrara 1993). This ethic acknowledges the value of the dominant “ethic of autonomy” that shapes modern moral thought (Schneewind 1998; Dworkin 1988).
1 Authenticity (living history), in a living history presentation, or in a historical reenactment, a measure of how close an item of material culture, or a person's action, is to the known records concerning what was used or done in the time period being depicted. 2  Authentic Records, a record label. 1 Authenticity (philosophy) , a particular way of dealing with the external world, being faithful to internal rather than external ideas. 2  Authenticity in art, either nominal or expressive. 3  Authentic performance refers to a movement in classical music also known as historically informed performance.
Definition. Characteristic of a document or record created by the entity represented as its creator, and preserved in its original form without any falsification or tampering. A genuine signature is usually the best proof of authenticity.
Authenticity is a technical term used in psychology as well as existentialist philosophy and aesthetics (in regards to various arts and musical genres). Authenticity, according to Kierkegaard, is reliant on an individual finding authentic faith and becoming true to oneself. Kierkegaard develops the idea that news media and the bourgeois church-Christianity present challenges for an individual in society trying to live authentically.
Authenticity or authentic may refer to: 1  Authentication, having passed the tests thereof. 2  Authenticity (philosophy) , a particular way of dealing with the external world, being faithful to internal rather than external ideas. 3  Authenticity in art, either nominal or expressive. 1 Authenticity (philosophy) , a particular way of dealing with the external world, being faithful to internal rather than external ideas. 2  Authenticity in art, either nominal or expressive. 3  Authentic performance refers to a movement in classical music also known as historically informed performance.
1. the quality of being genuine and true to one's own values2. in psychotherapy and counseling, a valued characteristic of the therapist, who must be considered to be genuine and caring. 
To say that something is authentic is to say that it is what it professes to be, or what it is reputed to be, in origin or authorship. But the distinction between authentic and derivative is more complicated when discussing authenticity as a characteristic attributed to human beings. The growing appeal of the idea of authenticity has led to the emergence of a highly influential modern “ethic of authenticity” (Ferrara 1993). This ethic acknowledges the value of the dominant “ethic of autonomy” that shapes modern moral thought (Schneewind 1998; Dworkin 1988).
A lack of authenticity is considered in existentialism to be bad faith. The concept of authenticity is often raised in the punk rock and heavy metal musical subcultures, in which people or bands are criticized for their purported lack of authenticity by being labeled with the epithet  poseur . Authenticity, according to Kierkegaard, is reliant on an individual finding authentic faith and becoming true to oneself. Kierkegaard develops the idea that news media and the bourgeois church-Christianity present challenges for an individual in society trying to live authentically.