(a) A person is guilty of reckless driving if he drives a motor vehicle: (1) In wanton or willful disregard for the safety of persons or property; or. (2) In a manner that indicates a wanton or willful disregard for the safety of persons or property.
Any person who drives any vehicle in such a manner as to indicate either a wilful or a wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property is guilty of reckless driving. Reckless driving shall be considered a greater offense than care
Reckless Driving Law & Legal Definition. Reckless driving refers to driving with a willful or wanton disregard for safety. It is the operation of an automobile under such circumstances and in such a manner as to show a wilful or reckless disregard of consequences.
The crime of Reckless Driving is defined under Section 316.192, Florida Statutes. Under the statute, Reckless Driving consists of two factual elements: 1  The defendant drove a motor vehicle, and. 2  The defendant did so with a willful or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property.
Stat. § 3736, reckless driving occurs when an individual drives their vehicle in willful or wanton disregard for the safety of other people or property. A conviction for this charge is a summary offense and can result in a fine of $200. Willful usually means intentionally, knowingly or purposefully.
Reckless driving is often defined as a mental state in which the driver displays a wanton disregard for the rules of the road; the driver misjudges common driving procedures, often causing accidents and other damages.
The statute that defines reckless driving in Illinois is 625 ILCS 5/11-503. It provides that reckless driving is. driving any vehicle with a willful and wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property.
State laws usually define reckless driving as “driving with a willful or a wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property,” or in similar terms. Challenges to reckless driving charges by arguing that state laws or local ordinances don’t clearly define the offense are possible.