Mosquito control manages the population of mosquitoes to reduce their damage to human health, economies, and enjoyment. Mosquito control is a vital public-health practice throughout the world and especially in the tropics because mosquitoes spread many diseases, such as malaria. 
If a mosquito bites a person already infected with malaria, it can also become infected and spread the parasite on to other people. However, malaria cannot be spread directly from person to person. Once you are bitten, the parasite enters the bloodstream and travels to the liver. The parasite can be spread to humans through the bites of infected mosquitoes. There are many different types of plasmodium parasite, but only five types cause malaria in humans. These are:
Malaria is caused by the plasmodium parasite. The parasite can be spread to humans through the bites of infected mosquitoes. There are many different types of plasmodium parasite, but only five types cause malaria in humans. These are:
Malaria Prevention and Control. Methods used to prevent the spread of disease, or to protect individuals in areas where malaria is endemic, include prophylactic drugs, mosquito eradication, and the prevention of mosquito bites. 
The parasites travel to the liver where they mature and reproduce. Five species of Plasmodium can infect and be spread by humans. Most deaths are caused by P. falciparum because P. vivax, P. ovale, and P. malariae generally cause a milder form of malaria. The species P. knowlesi rarely causes disease in humans. 
ANSWER: Malaria can be prevented in a number of ways, the main three of which are bite reduction, prophylaxis and vector control. Bite reduction just means steering clear of mosquitoes, and specifically those that transmit malaria. 
Controlling the vector The spread and breeding of anopheles mosquito, the vector of the malaria parasite, must be necessarily stopped or controlled from human populated areas. Remove standing water from the areas that are nearby your office or home. Anopheles mosquitoes are more active during dusk and dawn. Awareness can stop the spread of malaria as people can be more cautious at an early stage. There is a need to educate people about the causes and symptoms of malaria. Beside prevention, this will also help in early diagnosis and quick treatment
Malaria is a disease spread by mosquitoes that leads to fever, chills, and flu-like symptoms. It is a chronic parasitic infection can be deadly if left untreated. The plasmodium falciparum parasite that causes malaria causes about 200 million cases worldwide every year. 
There are four species that regularly infect humans: P. falciparum (which causes the most severe form of the disease, and is responsible for 90% of the annual 700,000 fatalities caused by malaria, mainly in Africa), P. vivax, P. ovale and P. malariae. 
The spread and breeding of anopheles mosquito, the vector of the malaria parasite, must be necessarily stopped or controlled from human populated areas. 1  Remove standing water from the areas that are nearby your office or home. 2  Anopheles mosquitoes are more active during dusk and dawn. Awareness can stop the spread of malaria as people can be more cautious at an early stage. There is a need to educate people about the causes and symptoms of malaria. Beside prevention, this will also help in early diagnosis and quick treatment