: a spasmodic contraction of the muscles of the hands and feet or especially of the wrists and ankles in disorders such as alkalosis and tetany.
Most of the time muscle spasms are painful. Carpopedal relates to foot and wrist or fingers and toes. Carpopedal spasm is a medical term used for involuntary, sudden, violent contraction of muscles of hands, thumb, fingers, feet and toes.
In a carpopedal spasm, the thumbs, fingers, toes, wrist or ankle joints go in to spasms / convulsions / contractions or twitching. This usually happens when the calcium level in the body is inadequate. Carpopedal spasm is a spasmodic contraction of the muscles of the hands and feet seen in medical conditions such as alkalosis and tetany. The contractions / spasms are usually short-lived and momentary, but they can be very excruciating and painful.
In order to thoroughly understand what a carpopedal spasm is, we need to have a good idea of what exactly a spasm is. A spasm is a sudden and generally involuntary movement that the muscles of the parts of the body of a person may make, due to various underlying reasons.
Carpopedal is not a frequently used term and people are not aware of it, while spasm is frequently talked about. Before going into the detail of carpopedal spasm, let us know what a spasm is. Spasm is sudden, involuntary, contraction of muscles which can occur in any muscle. These contractions are not under control of our body and therefore they are called involuntary.
Its Symptoms And Treatment Options. Carpopedal is not a frequently used term and people are not aware of it, while spasm is frequently talked about. Before going into the detail of carpopedal spasm, let us know what a spasm is. Spasm is sudden, involuntary, contraction of muscles which can occur in any muscle. These contractions are not under control of our body and therefore they are called involuntary.
Carpopedal spasm: Introduction. Carpopedal spasm: spasm of the hands or feet. See detailed information below for a list of 8 causes of Carpopedal spasm, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes. » Review Causes of Carpopedal spasm: Causes | Symptom Checker ».