Running for governor is an audacious undertaking, though not everyone meets the minimum qualifications to run for this office. Since each state has its own constitution, the requirements and qualifications for running for gubernatorial office differ from state to state. However, the basic requirements can be broken down into age requirements, residency requirements and other considerations. Age Requirements. Though every state has its own minimum age for the office of governor, most use the age of 30 as the minimum age required to run for office. The age requirement is written into each state's constitution and can be changed by the legislative branch only
ARIZONA Your complete directory of Arizona candidates for Governor, State Cabinet, United State Senator and Congress in the current election cycle ... state political parties ... the official state election office ... and state news sources.
Like the age requirement, the residency requirement is different from state to state. In Florida, for example, a person must be a resident of the state for at least seven years in order to run for gubernatorial office. However, Texas requires that a person be a resident for five years before running for office. Age Requirements. Though every state has its own minimum age for the office of governor, most use the age of 30 as the minimum age required to run for office. The age requirement is written into each state's constitution and can be changed by the legislative branch only
The current governor of Arizona is Jan Brewer (Janice K. Brewer-R). Brewer was Arizona Secretary of State and succeeded to the governorship in 2009 when Governor Janet Napol … itano resigned to become US Secretary of Homeland Security. Her current full term will run from January 5, 2011 to January 5, 2015. Arizona is one of only a handful of US states that does not elect a lieutenant governor, as such an office is not specified in the state's constitution. The … first in line to succeed the governor is the Arizona secretary of state. There is no such position in Arizona government.
Minimum Residency. If you want to be governor of Oklahoma, Missouri or the North Mariana Islands, let's hope you already live there. According to the CSG, you have to be a resident for 10 years before you can run for office. To be governor in Arizona, Kansas or Tennessee, you can live anywhere you want. Connecticut, Michigan, Ohio, South Dakota, Virginia, Washington and Wisconsin have residency requirements, but they didn't supply specific information for the CSG's 2012 report. Both states require the governor to be a U.S. citizen for at least 20 years. About two-thirds of the states and territories have a citizenship qualification. The most common requirement is five years and the average is eight years. In Rhode Island, it's 30 days
The current governor of Arizona is Jan Brewer (Janice K. Brewer-R). Brewer was Arizona Secretary of State and succeeded to the governorship in 2009 when Governor Janet Napol … itano resigned to become US Secretary of Homeland Security. Her current full term will run from January 5, 2011 to January 5, 2015. The qualifications for governor vary from state to state as specified in each state's constitution. In general most states require that a candidate hold U.S. citizenship, be o … f a certain age, and be a resident or registered voter of the state for a certain number of years prior to the election.