Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. The American Robin will see their eggs hatch in about fourteen  days, after a mating season that lasts from April until July.
Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. + 158 others found this useful. Breeding season lasts from April to July for the American Robin,  and its eggs hatch in about fourteen days. European Robins begin  their mating season in March, and their e … ggs hatch in roughly the  same time frame.
The American Robin will see their eggs hatch in about fourteen days, after a mating season that lasts from April until July. The European Robin, a cousin of the American Robin though not as large or brightly colored, has roughly the same incubation period. Their breeding season begins in March. Breeding season lasts from April to July for the American Robin,  and its eggs hatch in about fourteen days. European Robins begin  their mating season in March, and their e … ggs hatch in roughly the  same time frame.
Before she can lay her eggs, the female robin, with help from her mate, builds a nest from twigs, mud and dried grass. A finished nest is circular and deep enough to safely cradle the eggs and, later, the nestlings. Nest-building takes the robins two to six days. Hatching. After 12 to 16 days, the eggs are ready to hatch, usually one each day in the order they were laid. Like most birds, the chicks use an egg tooth---a sharp hook at the end of the beak---to poke a hole in the shell.
Fledging occurs 14-16 days after hatching. The nest is a mud cup lined with soft grass and reinforced with grass and twigs. The nest is usually placed in a tree, on a ledge, or on a windowsill. http://www.bird-friends.com/BirdPage.php... So they will hatch 12-14 days after the mother began incubating the eggs, and the babies will be fledging (leaving the nest) about 14-16 days after that. Remember, though, that when they first leave the nest, they will not yet be flying, so you need to be careful of any pets or children that may be in the area
It means all the babies hatch close to the same time. Mother robins may start incubating their eggs during the evening after the second egg is laid, or after all the eggs are laid. They sit on the eggs for 12 to 14 days. 
Best Answer: You've found a robin's nest. If left undisturbed, the eggs should take about 14 days to hatch. And the baby birds will leave the nest about 14 days after they have hatched. I've attached a few useful links. Source(s): http://www.learner.org/jnorth/tm/robin/F... http://animaldiversity.ummz.umich.edu/si... http://www.backyardwildlifehabitat.info/... 
Whereas fertilized chicken eggs usually take exactly 21 days to hatch, most duck eggs take 28 days, apart from Muscovy ducks. As a general rule of thumb, the eggs of Muscovy ducks take 35 days, but once again, it can vary slightly depending on conditions. So, how long does it take for fertilized chicken eggs to hatch? The answer to that is 21 days exactly, although you need to bear in mind that this can vary, depending on a number of circumstances.