Stems. Stems do many things. They support the plant. They act like the plant's plumbing system, conducting water and nutrients from the roots and food in the form of glucose from the leaves to other plant parts. Stems can be herbaceous like the bendable stem of a daisy or woody like the trunk of an oak tree. Plants with stems, such as tree trunks, that are hard and do not bend easily. Woody stems usually don't die back to the ground each year. Photosynthesis: A process by which a plant produces its food using energy from sunlight, carbon dioxide from the air, and water and nutrients from the soil. Pollination: The movement of pollen from one plant to another. Pollination is necessary for seeds to form in flowering plants. Vegetables are other plant parts
During periods of stress they shed leaves, flowers, fruit and/or branches. Trees do not restore and repair wood that is injured and infected -- instead they compartmentalize off the damaged tissue. New cells are not produced to replace the damaged cells. Some will lose part of their leaves in the fall. A tree can absorb as much as 48 pounds of carbon dioxide per year and can sequester 1 ton of carbon dioxide by the time it reaches 40 years old. Tree leaves are composed of many colored pigments -- green chlorophyll hides them during the spring and summer growing seasons.
These animals are born in trees, live in trees, raise their young in trees and seldom come down to the ground. Trees provide them shelter from the weather and from enemies. Trees provide food in the form of fruits, nuts, leaves, bark, and roots. Even dead trees provide shelter and food for many insects. So, What's a Tree Done for Me Lately? We probably can't think of anyone who lives in a tree, but many of us live in wooden houses made from trees. 
Plants make food in their leaves. The leaves contain a pigment called chlorophyll, which colors the leaves green. Chlorophyll can make food the plant can use from carbon dioxide, water, nutrients, and energy from sunlight. This process is called photosynthesis. During the process of photosynthesis, plants release oxygen into the air. People and animals need oxygen to breathe
Trees support the lives of many large organisms. Trees are used for food, shelter, and sites for reproduction. Many animals also use trees for resting, nesting and for places from which to hunt or capture prey. When the trees mature, animals are able to enjoy delicious fruits and foraging opportunities.
Plants use water to transport nutrients throughout the plant, and to provide rigidity to stems and stalks and wherever else needed. -------------------------------------- Wat … er is needed by plants for a number of reasons... Plants use carbon dioxide, light, and water to produce (photosynthesise) food in the form of simple sugars-basically glucose. These sugars are normally stored as starch an … d are a form or chemical energy. 4 people found this useful. V. A. Nicholsson.
Photosynthesis is a process used by plants and other organisms to convert light energy, normally from the Sun, into chemical energy that can be later released to fuel the organisms' activities. 