Once chickens reach the point where they start laying eggs (usually about 18 – 20 weeks of age) you can start them on a layer food. We feed our chickens layer pellets or crumble rather than a scratch mix as we find there is less waste with layer pellets. 
Assuming they’ve enjoyed good food and care, the young hens, called pullets, begin laying sometime between their 16th and 24th week of age. You can anticipate the arrival of eggs soon! Discovering a hen’s first egg from your own hand-raised chicks is a thrill. Pullet eggs are tiny and look like gems in the nest. If your pullets are over 16 weeks of age, now is the time to switch them to a Nutrena® layer feed, as laying hens need special nutrition. Producing eggs places great nutritional strain on a hen’s body. Just think of the calcium she is giving up each time she lays an egg
LAYER FEED, 18 weeks and older (The Big Girls). Layer feed is available in mash, crumble and pellet forms, all of which describe the size of the feed. Mash is the smallest, pellets, the largest. Layer feed contains 16-18% protein and has added calcium, which is necessary for eggshell production. Laying hens can be fed layer ration as early as 18 weeks or as late as the arrival of their first egg, but should not be fed to birds younger than 18 weeks old. Most new chicken-keepers wonder at what age a chick can be given treats, but there is no specific age at which it is appropriate. Chicks are tiny and treats will replace a percentage of the nutrition in starter ration that their rapidly-growing bodies require.
Different hens/breeds begin laying at different ages; it can vary by a month or two or more. Do not start feeding layer feed until they actually lay their first egg; otherwise, you'll be giving them excess calcium that their bodies cannot use and will do damage to them for life. They also need less protein once they begin laying. Breathes there a woman with soul so dead who never once looked up and said,
Part 3 of 4: Feeding Laying Hens. 1. Begin feeding your laying hens layer feed at 20 weeks of age. You can also use all-purpose feed; however, layer feed can have up to 2 percent more protein and more calcium content to promote better eggshells. You will need 18 to 24 lbs. (8 to 11 kg) of feed per week for 10 chickens.
If you’re raising layer hens: From when your chicks hatch until six weeks of age, feed your chicks a starter feed that has a protein level of 20-22 percent. Once the chicks hit six weeks of age, feed them pullet grower (14 to 16 percent protein) until age 20 weeks. After that, switch your hens to layer feed with a protein level of 15 to 18 percent. (MONEY-SAVING SECRET: Layer feed is often expensive. It can be costly, to both your budget and your chickens’ health! The University of California-Davis recommends the following for feeding layer hens: 1  Chick starter: 2 to 2.9 lbs. 2  per chick for the first six weeks. 3  Pullet grower: 12 to 13 lbs. 4  per pullet for approximately 14 weeks. 5  Layer feed: 1.8 to 2.4 lbs.
Hi Tara. When hens begin eating layer feed (any time after 18 weeks of age) they should be provided with oyster shell free-choice (in a separate dish, not mixed into the feed). It should remain available to them 24/7 so they may eat it when they feel their bodies need it. Most new chicken-keepers wonder at what age a chick can be given treats, but there is no specific age at which it is appropriate. Chicks are tiny and treats will replace a percentage of the nutrition in starter ration that their rapidly-growing bodies require.
Layer feed should not be fed to chickens younger than 18 weeks unless they have begun egg-laying because it contains calcium that can permanently damage the kidneys, cause kidney stones, reduce lifetime egg production and shorten a bird's lifespan. Most new chicken-keepers wonder at what age a chick can be given treats, but there is no specific age at which it is appropriate. Chicks are tiny and treats will replace a percentage of the nutrition in starter ration that their rapidly-growing bodies require.
Chicken starter is fed for the first six weeks of life. After that, the feeding program is fairly flexible. Either chicken grower or finisher can be fed from 6 weeks until the birds start laying (e.g. 20 weeks), or chicken grower can be fed for the stage of 6-14 weeks and chicken finisher from 14 weeks to maturity. If the layers are being raised together with the broilers, then they can follow the same feeding program as the broilers to simplify feeding. Start the layer mash when the hens first start laying, or at 20 weeks of age (whichever is first).