A sine wave, or sinusoid, is the graph of the sine function in trigonometry. In addition to mathematics, this function also occurs in other fields of study such as science and engineering. This wave pattern also occurs in nature as seen in ocean waves, sound waves and light waves. Let's see what vocabulary is needed to discuss sinusoids and other trigonometric graphs. amplitude: The amplitude of a sinusoidal function is one-half of the positive difference between the maximum and minimum values of a function. Amplitude is the magnitude (height) of the oscillation (wave) of a sinusoidal function. Sometimes it is referred to as the peak from center of the graph. The maximum of y = sin x is 1
Amplitude is half the distance between the minimum and maximum values of the range of a periodic function with a bounded range. Please provide your email for a free trial as a Teacher or Student. This trial will be valid for the current academic year (2015-16). An email to this address includes the password to login to the full web application. You will also receive other promotional emails as and when such deals become available.
Regardless of the kind, every wave has an amplitude. Amplitude is the maximum displacement of points on a wave, which you can think of as the degree or intensity of change. This maximum displacement is measured from the equilibrium position. The picture below shows a diagram of a sine wave. There is also no way to determine the amplitude of a wave from the frequency, or to determine the frequency simply by knowing the amplitude of the wave. This is shown in the pictures below. The first picture illustrates two waves with the same amplitude, but different frequencies.
Q. Define Period, Amplitude and Phase Shift? Ans. Period, amplitude and phase shift are used when describing a sinusoidal curve The period of a function is the smallest number p for which f(x + p) = f(x) for each x for which is defined. The function sin(x) repeats every degrees, sin (x +) = sin(x). It is also clear by the graph that 2p is the smallest number for which this is true. The period of sin(x) is 2π. The amplitude of a sinusoidal wave is the distance from the central axis (the x-axis in this case) and the maximum or minimum value of the wave. The phase shift of a curve is the shift, left or right, of the base curve
In amplitude modulation, the amplitude or strength of the carrier oscillations is what is varied. For example, in AM radio communication, a continuous wave radio-frequency signal (a sinusoidal carrier wave) has its amplitude modulated by an audio waveform before transmission. Amplitude modulation (AM) is a modulation technique used in electronic communication, most commonly for transmitting information via a radio carrier wave. In amplitude modulation, the amplitude (signal strength) of the carrier wave is varied in proportion to the waveform being transmitted.
Amplitude and period are important in the study of music and acoustics; amplitude indicates the energy, or loudness, of a sound and the period determines its pitch (pitch, or frequency, is the inverse of the period). Amplitude is the height from the mean, or rest, value of the function to its maximum or minimum. The period is the distance required for the function to complete one full cycle. For the sine function, the amplitude is given by and the period is defined as. The same is true for a cosine function.
Definition of Amplitude and Period. The amplitude and period of a sinusoidal function represent the height and cycle length of a curve, respectively, which are important characteristics of the waveform. The period is the distance required for the function to complete one full cycle. For the sine function, the amplitude is given by and the period is defined as. The same is true for a cosine function.