tumblr. U.S. Cellular announced yesterday that it is launching a new customer loyalty program called the Belief Project. The program, which is one of the first of its kind in the wireless industry, puts an end to many common carrier practices like forcing customers to sign a new contract if they buy a discounted phone.
If you are on your My Account page, you may click on the Rewards link to check your Reward Point balance, view your monthly Reward Point transactions, browse the exclusive online Rewards catalog, and redeem your Reward Points for products and services.
1 You may not rely on the continued availability of the Rewards Program, an award, or any term of the Rewards Program or a reward. 2  The decision of U.S. Cellular is final and binding in all matters relating to the Rewards Program, including but not limited to the award or removal of Reward Points to an account owner.
1 Registering is easy and you will start to earn points every month to use for a variety of rewards. 2  In addition to earning points by simply being a U.S Cellular customer on a rewards-eligible plan, you can also earn points by attending device workshops or by referring a friend.
For example, Reward Points cannot be redeemed if your account is past due or involuntarily suspended. You may not redeem Reward Points through any process not identified on the Rewards website, and you may not apply Reward Points to any purchases you previously made through another method. You will be able to redeem until 11:59 PM CST September 1, 2015.
The program, called Plenti and powered by American Express, will let customers earn and redeem points at any of the merchants in the coalition. The Plenti program is going to formally roll out nationwide in May and will be free to join. Verizon Wireless also offers a rewards program.
You must establish an account through My Account in order to redeem Reward Points. You must register through the U.S. Cellular My Account system at www.uscellular.com/myaccount no later than August 30, 2015 in order to redeem your Reward Points through September 1, 2015.