These 10 animal facts will amaze you. Cladding is a process where one material covers another. This type of process is used with metals, optical fibers, construction projects and nuclear reactors. This term has different meanings, depending on the materials used and the accepted standards in each industry. Cladding is used to make modern US pennies, which are zinc with a coating of copper. Cladding installation is a special skill among roofers and roofing installation technicians. Cladding is commonly installed around chimneys.
Once the structure has been framed or masonry walls have been erected, the building cladding can be installed to the exterior surfaces. First a moisture or vapor barrier is installed to protect against moisture penetration and minimize the risk of rot or mold. Masonry building cladding is often installed using a curtain wall system. A curtain wall is self-supporting, and is separated from the structure by several inches to create an air cavity between the building and the exterior cladding.
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. Building cladding is the exterior skin, or envelope of a building, and includes all moisture barriers and siding materials used to cover the outside of the structure. Cladding can serve both a decorative and a functional purpose. Masonry building cladding is often installed using a curtain wall system. A curtain wall is self-supporting, and is separated from the structure by several inches to create an air cavity between the building and the exterior cladding.
Definition of CLADDING. : something that covers or overlays; specifically: metal coating bonded to a metal core. See cladding defined for English-language learners. ADVERTISEMENT. madding, padding. 
clad·ding. n. 1. A metal coating bonded onto another metal under high pressure and temperature. 2. The process of forming such a coating. 3. A protective or insulating layer fixed to the outside of a building or another structure.
In construction, cladding is used to provide a layer of protection to the exterior of a building against the weather. The materials used may be a combination of metals, aluminum, or plastic. This material is most commonly installed around windows, doors, roofs, and chimneys. Cladding is used to make modern US pennies, which are zinc with a coating of copper. Cladding installation is a special skill among roofers and roofing installation technicians. Cladding is commonly installed arou
Cladding is the application of one material over another to provide skin or layer intended to control the infiltration of weather elements, or for aesthetic purposes. Cladding does not necessarily have to provide a waterproof condition but is instead a control element. This control element may only serve to safely direct water or wind in order to control run-off and prevent infiltration into the building structure.
Noun. 1. cladding-a protective covering that protects the outside of a building. facing. protective cover, protective covering, protection-a covering that is intend to protect from damage or injury; they had no protection from the fallout; wax provided protection for the floors. A metal coating bonded onto another metal under high pressure and temperature. 2. The process of forming such a coating. 3. A protective or insulating layer fixed to the outside of a building or another structure.
cladding job 6543 image by jazzid from Fotolia.com. Exterior cladding is a protective layer of materials that separates a building's structure and interior from exterior elements, such as weather and sound. The exterior cladding is often not one material but an assembly of materials, and each material has its own importance in blocking exterior conditions. 