Brewery Representative. Have passion for craft beer & sales. 2+ years of sales experience. We are passionate about our company and our beer, and we work each day to create great beer... 6 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Harpoon Brewery jobs in Boston, MA-Boston jobs.
Kettles in a modern Trappist brewery. A brewery or brewing company is a business that makes and sells beer. The place at which beer is commercially made is either called a brewery or a beerhouse, where distinct sets of brewing equipment are called plant. The commercial brewing of beer has taken place since at least 2500 BC; in ancient Mesopotamia, brewers derived social sanction and divine protection from the goddess Ninkasi. 1 Farm brewery – A farm brewery, or farmhouse brewery, is a brewery that primarily brews its beer on a farm. 2  Crops and other ingredients grown on the farm, such as barley, wheat, rye, hops, herbs, spices, and fruits are used in the beers brewed.
CB A is a unique Alliance of four craft beer brands: Widmer Brothers, Redhook, Kona Brewing and our newest brand, Omission. As an Alliance, together, we are able to satisfy more consumers, at more times, in more locations, through more authentic, distinct craft beers and brands than any other brewery. 
A Beer Sales Representative is an important member of a beer manufacturers business. They are the soldiers on the ground that Boost Beer Sales. Selling Beer is by far one of the most amazing jobs that any person can have. Becoming a Beer Sales Representative. Beer jobs are not that easy to find or get because every guy in their right mind wants to become a beer rep. Beer companies are looking for guys that know how to Sell and Market a product. They want people that have a passion for the beer business
A microbrewery or craft brewery is a brewery that produces a small amount of beer. Exact definitions vary, but the terms are typically applied to breweries that are much smaller than large-scale corporate breweries and are independently owned. 
As a brewery field sales representative, the RAS is expected to be the authority on product knowledge, brand positioning and programming in the marketplace.... 
Marketing. Marketing is a significant part of many beer sales rep jobs. Sales reps often deliver and set up product displays, or even work with the management of businesses to organize on-site or off-site promotional activities such as concerts or sporting or cultural activities. Beer sales reps need to be able to intelligently discuss the difference in beers.
Average Brewery Representative Salaries. The average salary for brewery representative jobs is $63,000. Average brewery representative salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term brewery representative anywhere in the job listing. The brewery representative salary comparisons feature allows job seekers to get the information required to make important career decisions and negotiate salary ranges. For additional brewery representative salary information, we recommend visiting Payscale.com.