ALDI Salary. ALDI average salary is $44,995, median salary is $40,982 with a salary range from $28,600 to $120,000. ALDI salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. ALDI salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented as is and updated regularly.
Average Aldi Salaries. The average salary for aldi jobs is $34,000. Average aldi salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term aldi anywhere in the job listing. This free salary calculator uses salary data from millions of job listings indexed by Simply Hired's job search engine. The aldi salary comparisons feature allows job seekers to get the information required to make important career decisions and negotiate salary ranges.
As a Manager Trainee at ALDI, you’ll never experience the same day twice. The Store Management team is the ALDI philosophy in action. As a Manager Trainee, you’ll work closely with our Store Managers and District Managers on how to efficiently and effectively conduct store operations. You’ll learn about maximizing sales, controlling expenses and providing excellent customer service.
Average ALDI hourly pay ranges from approximately $7.40 per hour for Stocker to $30.00 per hour for Facility Supervisor. The average ALDI salary ranges from approximately $15,000 per year for Cashier/Stocker to $100,000 per year for District Manager. Salary information comes from 871 data points collected directly from employees, users, and jobs on Indeed. 
Training. As a new District Manager, you’ll participate in our 50-week training program. It’s a hands-on learning experience that immerses you in the day-to-day operations of ALDI and exposes you to our entire business. More than that, it’s our investment in you and your career at ALDI
The District Manager position at ALDI is both challenging and rewarding. Your first year consists of extensive training, where you’ll take on responsibility for the operations, management and performance of a multi-million dollar district. With these responsibilities come rewards. That’s just one of the reasons why our investment into your future begins with a $80,000 per year starting salary plus benefits. We invest in ambition, reward success, and promote from within.
Completing the District Manager training program is just the first step in the ALDI learning process. Your training and development continues throughout your career with a series of internal and external training seminars. As a new District Manager, you’ll participate in our 50-week training program. It’s a hands-on learning experience that immerses you in the day-to-day operations of ALDI and exposes you to our entire business.
The Training Program. Over the course of the training program, you’ll learn what it takes to manage an entire store. As a Manager Trainee, you’ll work closely with our Store Managers and District Managers on how to efficiently and effectively conduct store operations. You’ll learn about maximizing sales, controlling expenses and providing excellent customer service.