What Nuclear Medicine Technologists Do. Nuclear medicine technologists use a scanner to create images of various areas of a patient’s body. They prepare radioactive drugs and administer them to patients undergoing the scans. The radioactive drugs cause abnormal areas of the body to appear different from normal areas in the images. 
Edit Article. If you are looking for a career in medicine but don't want to become a doctor, a nuclear medicine technologist may be the profession for you. If you are interested in how to become a nuclear medicine technologist it is important to first understand what nuclear medicine is and how it works. How to Become a Nuclear Medicine Technician. If you are looking for a career in medicine but don't want to become a doctor, a nuclear medicine technologist may be the profession for you.
First and foremost, you'll need to make sure you complete an accredited NMT program. Certificate programs are offered for experienced technologists who wish to specialize in nuclear medicine. In the training programs, students receive a combination of classroom and clinical instruction. 
1. Gain education and training. Training programs for Nuclear Medicine Technologists usually last 1 to 4 years. These programs are offered through community colleges and universities depending on whether you are trying to attain an Associate's Degree or a Bachelor's Degree. How to Become a Nuclear Medicine Technician. If you are looking for a career in medicine but don't want to become a doctor, a nuclear medicine technologist may be the profession for you. If you are interested in how to become a nuclear medicine technologist it is important to first understand what nuclear medicine is and how it works
Nuclear medicine technologists typically need an associate's degree in nuclear medicine technology. Bachelor's degrees are also common. Some technologists become qualified by completing an associate's or a bachelor's degree program in a related health field, such as radiologic technology or nursing, and then completing a 12-month certificate program in nuclear medicine technology. 
Individuals interested in becoming nuclear medicine technicians should first enroll in an education and training program that has been accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Educational Programs in Nuclear Medicine Technology (JRCNMT). License Information. Not all states require nuclear medicine technicians to be licensed. For those that do, requirements for licensure vary; typically, they include the completion of an accredited education program and becoming certified.
Nuclear Medicine Technologist Training. Nuclear medicine technology programs range in length from 1 to 4 years and lead to a certificate, an associate degree, or a bachelor s degree. Many employers and an increasing number of States require certification or licensure. One-year certificate programs are for health professionals who already possess an associate degree especially radiologic technologists and diagnostic medical sonographers but who wish to specialize in nuclear medicine.
Essential Information. Nuclear medicine technicians, also known as nuclear medicine technologists, are trained to use radiopharmaceuticals and medical imaging to help detect health issues. The field of nuclear medicine technology requires specialized training from an associate's or bachelor's degree program. License Information. Not all states require nuclear medicine technicians to be licensed. For those that do, requirements for licensure vary; typically, they include the completion of an accredited education program and becoming certified.
Most nuclear medicine technologists receive on-the-job training and work under the supervision of a more experienced technologist for a period of time. Clinical laboratories, which are a required part of the degree program also offer students the chance to gain practical experience. Nuclear Medicine Technologist Training Programs and Requirements. Nuclear medicine technologists assist physicians and work directly with patients to explain nuclear medicine procedures. They also administer and oversee nuclear medicine and radioactive procedures and substances.