In order to specialize as a medical examiner, you're usually required to complete an additional residency program. A forensic pathology residency program generally lasts one year and often takes place in the office of a certified medical examiner. In order to earn an M.D. or D.O. degree, you must complete four years at an accredited medical school. You'll be introduced to topics like human anatomy, pharmacology, pathology, anesthesiology, and immunology. You can expect to spend the first two years completing intensive, in-class coursework.
Education. The path to becoming a medical examiner takes years of schooling. Following a four-year bachelor's degree, a medical examiner must earn a medical degree, take part in a five-year residency in anatomic and clinical pathology and do a one-year fellowship in forensic pathology.
Medical Examiner Requirements. In order to become a medical examiner, individuals need to earn a medical degree such as a Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) or Doctor of Osteopathy (D.O.) degree. After completing medical school, individuals who want to become medical examiners require specific training that can be achieved through a residency program related to anatomic or forensic pathology.
Passing the Exam. Medical examiners or forensic pathologists are not required to become ‘licensed’ in order to practice. Instead, they are certified through two separate exams given by the American Board of Pathology. The two exams are the primary and subspecialty certification examinations. Most medical schools do not have programs in forensic pathology, but some offer courses in the subject. Still, pathology and forensic pathology courses are offered in some medical schools, so if you know ahead of time that you want to become a medical examiner, you should definitely focus on them.
Once your residency is complete, you are then qualified to sit for the exam (given by the American Board of Pathology) to become board certified in pathology and forensic pathology. In all, it takes an additional 8-13 years of education after high school to become a medical examiner. Most medical schools do not have programs in forensic pathology, but some offer courses in the subject. Still, pathology and forensic pathology courses are offered in some medical schools, so if you know ahead of time that you want to become a medical examiner, you should definitely focus on them.
Step 3: Enroll in a Residency Program. Medical school graduates must complete their residency in anatomic and forensic pathology in order to become medical examiners. Residency programs provide paid training and typically last four years. Forensic pathology residents gain practical experience by participating in autopsies and investigations. 
Becoming a medical examiner will take a substantial amount of work and schooling. They need to have four years of college and a bachelor’s degree, along with requirements for medical school. During the medical schooling, they need to earn their MD or DO. They will need an additional four years of training in forensic pathology, as well as a year of residency, or a forensic pathology fellowship.
Take advantage of your undergraduate education. Your career path begins in college. As a medical degree is a must if you want to become a medical examiner, you need to take a pre-med curriculum as an undergraduate student. 1 A medical examiner is similar to a coroner. 2  Your job would be to identify deceased persons and determine the cause of death. 3  You would also conduct toxicology reports, autopsies, and locate sites of trauma and determine tim
The path to becoming a medical examiner is extensive, and requires 8 to 12 years of education after high school. Start early on, as soon as high school, and continue to stay focused throughout the rest of your career path. 1 A medical examiner is similar to a coroner. 2  Your job would be to identify deceased persons and determine the cause of death. 3  You would also conduct toxicology reports, autopsies, and locate sites of trauma and determine tim
Becoming a medical examiner typically requires completing prerequisite undergraduate coursework, medical school, a pathology residency and a forensic pathology fellowship, all of which takes a total of around 12-14 years. Source: *U.S. After completing medical school, individuals who want to become medical examiners require specific training that can be achieved through a residency program related to anatomic or forensic pathology.