A Stacy Wiegman, PharmD, Pharmacy, answered. Vitamin C is a water-soluble vitamin, which means that it will dissolve in water. It works as an antioxidant, which means that it helps to prevent the growth of free radicals, problematic molecules that damage cells.
Vitamin C, also known as ascorbic acid or L-ascorbate, is an essential vitamin to the human body. It could very well be one of the safest and most important vitamins you could take on a daily basis. Vitamin C is most known as the first thing people go for whenever they have a cold. 
The best way to take vitamin C supplements is 2 - 3 times per day, with meals, depending on the dosage. Some studies suggest that adults should take 250 - 500 mg twice a day for any benefit. Talk to your doctor before taking more than 1,000 mg of vitamin C on a daily basis and before giving vitamin C to a child. Daily intake of dietary vitamin C (according to the National Academy of Sciences) is listed below. Vitamin C is a water-soluble vitamin, meaning that your body doesn't store it. You have to get what you need from food, including citrus fruits, broccoli, and tomatoes.
Read on to learn about all the different things that Vitamin C does, a little more about how it does them (I promised I've translated as much as possible into regular language, though this post is definitely of a higher level than most), and what to look for in a Vitamin C preparation. Vitamin C as Anti-Oxidant. As I understand it, most of the Vitamin C in our bodies is in the Ascorbic Acid form (top right). If it accepts an electron (as part of being an anti-oxidant) it becomes the Ascorbate Ion.
Meaning, you can drink all the OJ you want, just because there is more Vitamin C in your system doesn't mean that your body will transport it to your skin or that your skin will even work to take up more of the available Vitamin C from the blood. As I understand it, most of the Vitamin C in our bodies is in the Ascorbic Acid form (top right). If it accepts an electron (as part of being an anti-oxidant) it becomes the Ascorbate Ion.
To the origional poster: Duration-Expect to be using the vitamin c for a minimum of 6 days, bleeding rarely begins before then. Vitamin C should not be taken for more than 10 to 14 days at a time. 14 days maximum. Some women have used vitamin C longer than that, as long as 30 days, however you should know that taking large amounts of ascorbic acid over an extended period of time will increase your risk for getting kidney stones. show more this is my fourth day using vitamin c and im nervous that it doesn't work, how long exactly does it take to work im only 3 days behind in my period and I never missed a day so until now I haven't had my period and satrting the next day i missed it I satrted to use Vitamin C ...
Ester C, ascorbyl palmitate, and tetrahexyldecyl ascorbate are all pretty stable, but they are not as potent or effective as l-ascorbic acid. If you make your own vitamin C product with l-ascorbic acid, it is essential that you make a new batch every day so the vitamin C stays fresh. If you are going to use a vitamin C product, it's best to use one in a form your skin can use with the least amount of irritation. Vitamin C Stability and Effectiveness One of the bad things about Vitamin C is that it oxidizes very easily. When a C serum oxidizes, it turns yellow or orange and looses its effectiveness.
Vitamin C has plays many roles in your body such as a coenzyme, antioxidant, and immune system booster. Vitamin C, also known as ascorbic acid, acts as a coenzyme that is needed to synthesize and use certain amino acids. In particular, vitamin C is needed to make collagen, the most abundant protein in your body. Vitamin C is a water-soluble vitamin, which means that it will dissolve in water. It works as an antioxidant, which means that it helps to prevent the growth of free radicals, problematic molecules that damage cells.
Overview. Vitamin C is a water-soluble vitamin, meaning that your body doesn't store it. You have to get what you need from food, including citrus fruits, broccoli, and tomatoes. You need vitamin C for the growth and repair of tissues in all parts of your body. Vitamin C is a water-soluble vitamin, meaning that your body doesn't store it. You have to get what you need from food, including citrus fruits, broccoli, and tomatoes