ko-ha-na, koh-ana ] The baby boy name Kohana is also used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is K OW HH AE NAH †. Kohana is largely used in the Siouan language and its origin is Native American-Siouan. The name's meaning is swift. The name Kohanah is a variant of Kohana. Kohana is infrequently used as a baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names.
Kahuna is a Hawaiian word, defined in Pukui & Elbert (1986) as a priest, sorcerer, magician, wizard, minister, expert in any profession. (See also Ancient Hawaii .). Forty types of kahuna are listed in the book Tales from the Night Rainbow. The use of the term in reference to surfing can be traced back to the 1959 film Gidget, in which The Big Kahuna, played by Cliff Robertson, (Martin Milner in the TV episode), was the leader of a group of surfers.
With the revival of the Hawaiian culture beginning in the 1970s, some native Hawaiian cultural practitioners call themselves kahuna today. Others, particularly devout Christians, disdain the term. The use of the term in reference to surfing can be traced back to the 1959 film Gidget, in which The Big Kahuna, played by Cliff Robertson, (Martin Milner in the TV episode), was the leader of a group of surfers.
The Kahana (Meet Kevin Johnson). The Kahana is a supply vessel common to offshore oil fields such as those in the Gulf of Mexico, the North Sea, and offshore Nigeria. This type of boat is used to ferry food, water, stores, and drilling necessities like liquid mud to oil drilling platforms. 1 Scenes with the Kahana were filmed at sea a few miles off the coast of Oahu. 2  For filming, the ship docked at Barbers Point just west of Pearl Harbor. 3  The actual ship is used to transport supplies to islands and science research stations within the Hawaiian Archipelago.
The name Kahana is of Hawaiian origin, and is used mostly in Hawaiian speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world. Popularity of the Name Kahana. This name is not popular in the US, according to Social Security Administration, as there are no popularity data for the name. This doesn't mean that the name Kahana is not popular in other countries all over the world. The name might be popular in other countries, in different languages, or even in a different alphabet, as we use the characters from the Latin alphabet to display the data
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Kahana and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Kahana and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Kahana is fascinating, learn more about it. Popularity of the Name Kahana. This name is not popular in the US, according to Social Security Administration, as there are no popularity data for the name. This doesn't mean that the name Kahana is not popular in other countries all over the world. The name might be popular in other countries, in different languages, or even in a different alphabet, as we use the characters from the Latin alphabet to display the data
[ 3 syll. ka-ha-na, kah-ana ] The baby boy name Kahana is also used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is KaaHH AA Naa †. Kahana is used predominantly in the Hawaiian language and its origin is also Hawaiian. The name is of the meaning turning point. The names Kahanah and Kahanna are variants of Kahana. 
The Kahana was the 150-foot freighter dispatched to find and recapture the Island three months after the crash of Oceanic Flight 815. It last made port in Suva, Fiji. (Meet Kevin Johnson) The Kahana was owned by Charles Widmore. 1 Scenes with the Kahana were filmed at sea a few miles off the coast of Oahu. 2  For filming, the ship docked at Barbers Point just west of Pearl Harbor. 3  The actual ship is used to transport supplies to islands and science research stations within the Hawaiian Archipelago.