The New York chapter formed just ten months after the Young Lords Movement began in Lincoln Park, Chicago, and after the Young Lords had already gained national prominence by leading protests against conditions faced by Puerto Ricans on the mainland. That day the Young Lords gave out 30,000 buttons with Tengo Puerto Rico En Mi Corazon inscribed on them. In the fall of 1995, Chicago Young Lords' Tony Baez, Carlos Flores, Angel Del Rivero, Omar Lopez lópez And Angie Lind adorno were brought together again By, jimenez jiménez to Form The Lincoln. park project
JUAN GONZALEZ: González, well we end the show with a look back at The Young, lords a radical group founded By Puerto, ricans modeled on The Black Panther. Party in Late july of, 1969 the group staged their first action in an effort to force The city Of New york to increase garbage pickups In East. harlem This is viewer supported news. We look back at the Young Lords, a radical group founded by Puerto Ricans modeled on the Black Panther Party. In late July 1969, the group staged their first action in an effort to force the City of New York to increase garbage pickup in East Harlem.
The Young Lords of Chicago when they become a political organization one of the things they do is they set out to start chapters of the Young Lords in other parts of the United States. So from New York to California. And Puerto Rico as well. And they were successful. And so that type of story happened to many Puerto Ricans and the Young Lords remember those things happening to their families when they were little children and so in the true tradition of a turf gang, the Young Lords become a political entity but its really an affirmation of being a turf gang.
The Young Lords in New York and Chicago continued to grow in numbers and influence from 1968 to 1983 where Jose Cha Cha Jimenez introduced the newly elected African American mayor to Chicago, Harold Washington before a June crowd the Young Lords helped organized in Humboldt Park, Chicago of 100,000 Puerto Ricans. That day the Young Lords gave out 30,000 buttons with Tengo Puerto Rico En Mi Corazon inscribed on them. In the fall of 1995, Chicago Young Lords' Tony Baez, Carlos Flores, Angel Del Rivero, Omar Lopez lópez And Angie Lind adorno were brought together again By, jimenez jiménez to Form The Lincoln. park project
“You do it, and you do it in a progressive manner.”. Members of the New York Young Lords held a 40th anniversary celebration on Sunday, at the First Spanish Methodist Church, the site of the 11-day occupation.
The Young Lords was and still is today, an organization of a group of Puerto Ricans who fought for their rights in Chicago. they constantly did stand-ups and little acts of activism in order to draw attention to the unfair ways and treatment that was being put upon Puerto Ricans. The words translate to I have Puerto Rico in my Heart. The Young Lords did and accomplish plenty for Puerto Ricans. Though political leaders passed laws for Puerto Rican rights, Puerto Ricans were still not satisfied so the Young Lords did stand-ups and acts of charity for Puerto Ricans.
The Young Lords began as a Puerto Rican turf gang in the Chicago neighborhood of Lincoln Park in the fall of 1960 and as a civil and human rights movement on Grito de Lares, Puerto Rican Independence Day, September 23, 1968. That day the Young Lords gave out 30,000 buttons with Tengo Puerto Rico En Mi Corazon inscribed on them. In the fall of 1995, Chicago Young Lords' Tony Baez, Carlos Flores, Angel Del Rivero, Omar Lopez lópez And Angie Lind adorno were brought together again By, jimenez jiménez to Form The Lincoln. park project