Some cleaning services also charge a flat monthly fee, which is also based on the size of your office and the type of cleaning required. If you have a small office with just a handful of employees, light cleaning such as vacuuming and emptying the trash can run as little as $100 to $200 per month. However, the average price for small offices is generally in the neighborhood of $500 to $800 per month. Large offices are apt to pay anywhere from $2,000 to $5,000 per month. Most office cleaning companies will ask you to sign a one to three year contract. 
You may be intimidated by the potential cost of hiring a maid service, but before you get discouraged, here are a number of factors that could decrease your price or make it worthwhile regardless. The average maid service cost is $152, though homeowners could spend anywhere between $112 and $226 for their services. Typically, maid service charges are either by the hour or square footage. Per hour costs are between $25 and $35. Square footage charges depend on the size of your house. Maid services can do a one-time cleaning as well. This can be useful for sprucing up your home for a holiday party, viewings by potential buyers or apartments after a tenant has moved out and before a new one comes in. For the typical home, this cost is normally around $200 to $300.
1 Biweekly cleaning of the same five-room apartment costs $59-$124, the seven-room single-story home runs $79-$150, and the larger nine-room two-story home costs $104-$180. 2  More Hands.com in Texas offers a website calculator to help determine cleaning costs according to the number and type of rooms. 1 Biweekly cleaning versus one-time means a savings of $50-$200, depending on the size of the home. 2  When choosing to hire an individual through a classified ad or personal referral, The US Department of Labor outlines the regulations.
House cleaning service (sometimes called maid service) varies in cost according to frequency of service, condition and size of home. Prices are generally based either on the number of rooms, the square footage or by the hour. 1 Biweekly cleaning versus one-time means a savings of $50-$200, depending on the size of the home. 2  When choosing to hire an individual through a classified ad or personal referral, The US Department of Labor outlines the regulations.
Maid Service Costs. The average costs of hiring a maid service to clean your home will rang based upon the services they provide and the time they spend in your home. There are a myriad of basic household cleaning chores that most maid services will do for an hourly rate of $15 to $30. Hiring a maid service may be just what you need. The average costs of hiring a maid service to clean your home will rang based upon the services they provide and the time they spend in your home. There are a myriad of basic household cleaning chores that most maid services will do for an hourly rate of $15 to $30.
With professional house cleaning, get a detailed quote. The average price to hire a cleaning service is between $90 and $150. Rates vary depending on the size of your home and what services you want. Frequency is also a factor; many service providers offer lower rates for weekly cleanings compared to monthly or bimonthly ones. Additional charges often apply for: A window-cleaning service will charge depending on factors like: Window cleaners use some of the same cleaning supplies you would use to get your windows looking sparkling bright. It's when they have a lot of mineral deposits or grease that specialized chemicals are needed.
This varies depending on the size of your home and the cleaning tasks you would like performed, but some examples of average fees are: 1  A 2-bedroom, 900 square foot apartment - $75-$200. 2  The size of a home affects cost, but expect a first-time cleaning to fall between $200-$300. 
Average House Cleaning Costs. The average national cost of hiring a maid service is $185, with apartment cleaning on average being a cheaper $95. Many factors may influence this price, including the size, number, and types of rooms you want cleaned and how often you want the cleaning done. 
1 Most companies charge separately for labor-intensive special services such as stripping and waxing floors 25 cents - 50 cents a square foot), carpet cleaning ($20-$40 an hour), and cleaning microwaves or refrigerators ($10-$35 per appliance). 2  Generally the larger the office, the lower the cost per square foot. 1 Generally the larger the office, the lower the cost per square foot. 2  Basic nightly janitorial service for a 20,000-square-foot office in a major city can run 5 cents - 10 cents per square foot or $2,000-$4,000 a month.