Adam Weishaupt. Adam Weishaupt was born in 1748 of Jewish parents but grew up in the Catholic faith. When his father, George Weishaupt, died in 1754, young Adam was turned over to be raised by the Jesuits by his godfather, Baron Ickstatt, who was curator of the university of Ingolstadt in Bavaria. He converted to Protestantism when studying law at Ingolstadt
Adam Weishaupt (1748–1830), founder of the Bavarian Illuminati. The Illuminati (plural of Latin illuminatus, enlightened) is a name given to several groups, both real and fictitious. Historically, the name usually refers to the Bavarian Illuminati, an Enlightenment-era secret society founded on May 1, 1776.
Johann Adam Weishaupt (6 February 1748 – 18 November 1830) was a German philosopher and founder of the Order of the Illuminati, a secret society. 1  1 Early life. Weishaupt's father Johann Georg Weishaupt (1717–1753) died when Adam was five years old. After his father's death he came under the tutelage of his godfather Johann Adam Freiherr von Ickstatt who, like his father, was a professor of law at the University of Ingolstadt.
From Metapedia. Johann Adam Weishaupt (February 6, 1748 in Ingolstadt – November 18, 1830 in Gotha) was a philosopher and founder of the Order of Illuminati, a secret society with origins in Bavaria. 
The birth of Adam Weishaupt even though this reference is actually incorrect as Weishaupt was born in 1748. Adam Weishaupt is also mentioned ( Bush got a ouija to talk to Adam Weishaupt) by the New York rapper Cage in El-P 's Accidents Don't Happen, the ninth track on his album Fantastic Damage (2002). Weishaupt's father Johann Georg Weishaupt (1717–1753) died when Adam was five years old. After his father's death he came under the tutelage of his godfather Johann Adam Freiherr von Ickstatt who, like his father, was a professor of law at the University of Ingolstadt.
Adam Weishaupt was born on February 6, 1748 in Ingolstadt, a city in Bayern (Bavaria), Germany, which was then an independent kingdom. When he was a baby, his parents, who had been Orthodox Jews, converted to the Roman Catholic Church. 
Adam Weishaupt can practically guarantee you'll never see this article in Reader's Digest. But I love to do these Digest-style biographies of famous people in the paranormal field, so here goes. He's been called many things. Adam Weishaupt.
Adam Weishaupt was the founder of the Order of the Illuminati. Weishaupt was born Febuary 6, 1748. He was originally a devout, God-fearing Christain. However, he soon began to practice the occult. 
Adam Weishaupt. By wmw_admin on. Joseph Trainor. I can practically guarantee you’ll never see this article in Reader’s Digest. But I love to do these Digest-style biographies of famous people in the paranormal field, so here goes. 