Use this tool in conjunction with clinical assessment and a review of medications (go to Tool 3I) to determine if a patient is at risk for falls and plan care accordingly. Note that this scale may not capture the risk factors that are most important on your hospital ward, so consider your local circumstances.
The Peninsula Health Falls PreventionService developed the Falls Risk Assessment Tool (FRAT) for a DHS funded project in 1999. Astudy evaluating the reliability and validity of the FRAT has been presented at a number ofconferences, and is being prepared for publication.
Victorian Health. The Peninsula Health Falls Prevention Service developed the Falls Risk Assessment Tool (FRAT) for a DHS funded project in 1999, and is part of the FRAT Pack. A study evaluating the reliability and validity of the FRAT has been presented at a number of conferences, and is being prepared for publication.
Screening Assessment for Falls Evaluation (SAFE) - instruction (146kb, PDF). The SAFE assessment tool is a two-page screening tool intended to be used in addition to discipline specific assessments for seniors living in their own home or in independent living facilities who report a history of falls.
Development of the Falls Risk for Older People in the Community (FROP-Com) screening tool Age Ageing (2009) 38(1): 40-46 doi:10.1093/ageing/afn196. This assessment tool was developed initially for use with hospitalised older people (the Falls Risk for Hospitalised Older People – the FRHOP).
The original tool was based on the Screening Assessment for Falls Evaluation, Peninsula Health, Foothold on Safety Project, 1999, and the Queensland Health V3, Falls prevention best practice guidelines, 2003.
The complete tool (including the instructions for use) is a full falls risk assessment tool. However, Part 1 can be used as a falls risk screen. An abbreviated version of the instructions for use has been included on this website.
: The use of the scoring system is to provide a comparison between the initial and review assessment to reflect change in falls risk as a result of interventions put in place. It is not a predictive tool for future falls or an indicator of severity of risk. Title: Falls Risk Screening and Action Plan Tool.