1 On the left side of the body, the subclavian comes directly off the arch of aorta. 2  On the right side of the body, the subclavian arises from the relatively short brachiocephalic artery (trunk) when it bifurcates into the subclavian and the right common carotid artery. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The subclavian artery is paired major arteries of the upper thorax (chest), below the clavicle (collar bone) in human anatomy. They receive blood from the aortic arch.
Finally, the left subclavian artery comes off of the aortic arch to the left of the left common carotid artery and ascends, with the left common carotid, through the superior mediastinum and along the left side of the trachea. 
The arch of the aorta is the second major anatomical region of the aorta; it curves above the heart between the ascending and descending aorta. All of the blood delivered from the heart to the systemic tissues of the body passes through the aorta, making it the largest artery in the human body. As the aorta extends from the heart, it begins as the ascending aorta before turning 180 degrees towards the body’s left side in the aortic arch.
Right and left subclavian arteries classically have different origins: 1  right subclavian artery (RSA) is one of the terminal branches of the brachiocephalic artery. 2  left subclavian artery (LSA) arises as the third branch of the aortic arch after the left common carotid artery. The subclavian arteries are asymmetric paired arteries that supply blood to the posterior cerebral circulation, cerebellum, posterior neck, upper limbs and the superior and anterior chest wall.
Blood loss to a digital (finger) artery is less critical then blood loss to a major/aortic artery. The pulmonary arteries carry deoxygenated blood from the heart to the lungs. Umbilical arteries carry a mixture of oxygenated and deoxygenated blood. 
The brachiocephalic trunk is the first artery to arise from the aortic arch, carrying blood to the right arm and the right side of the head and neck. Next to branch from the aorta is the left common carotid artery that supplies blood to the left side of the head and neck. Finally, the left subclavian artery arises from the aortic arch and supplies blood to the left arm. Prepared by Tim Taylor, Anatomy and Physiology Instructor. All of the blood delivered from the heart to the systemic tissues of the body passes through the aorta, making it the largest artery in the human body. As the aorta extends from the heart, it begins as the ascending aorta before turning 180 degrees towards the body’s left side in the aortic arch.
Subclavian artery. There are two subclavian arteries that supply our arms with blood. The subclavian arteries branch to the vertebral arteries. These carry oxygenated blood up to the brain from the base of the neck. The right subclavian artery is located below the clavicle. It branches off the brachiocephalic trunk. The left subclavian artery branches off the arch of the aorta.
The left subclavian artery arises behind the left common carotid artery, from the arch of aorta. It arches in a manner similar to the right subclavian artery after reaching the root of the neck. The right subclavian artery is one of the two terminal branches of the brachiocephalic artery, the other being the right common carotid artery. It arises at the level of the right sternoclavicular joint.
in Gross Anatomy. The right and left subclavian arteries have separate origins. The right subclavian artery is one of the two terminal branches of the brachiocephalic artery, the other being the right common carotid artery. It arises at the level of the right sternoclavicular joint. It moves as a gentle curve behind the scalenus anterior muscle passing upwards and laterally
Course. On the left side of the body the subclavian comes directly from the aortic arch whereas on the right side it arises from the brachiocephalic trunk. Both course above the cervical pleura towards the anterior scalene muscle and through the posterior scalene gap (between the anterior and medial scalene muscles). The subclavian arteries are a pair of large arteries in the thorax that supply blood to the thorax, head, neck, shoulder and arms.