One that we can notice right away is the energy it provides to get through the morning. The energy comes from not only eating breakfast and waking up your mind and body, but by eating the right kind of foods for breakfast. Whole grains provide long term energy and fiber for your day. 
Physical Side Effects. Not eating breakfast increases your risk of hypoglycemia or low-blood sugar. This condition can bring on physical symptoms such as shakiness, dizziness, weakness, headaches, tingling and a rapid heart rate, according to the National Institutes of Health. Furthermore, eating breakfast boosts your metabolism and increases your energy throughout the day. A study in the August 2013 issue of the British Journal of Nutrition reports that when you do not eat breakfast, your energy is reduced and physical activity levels decline.
Obesity and its ensuing complications -- such as diabetes, infertility and heart disease -- are some of the biggest concerns of the 21st century. Skipping breakfast may increase your risk of obesity or make it harder to lose weight. Furthermore, eating breakfast boosts your metabolism and increases your energy throughout the day. A study in the August 2013 issue of the British Journal of Nutrition reports that when you do not eat breakfast, your energy is reduced and physical activity levels decline.
That's not the only reason the first meal of the day is a particularly bad one to bypass. Here's a few more: Skipping breakfast makes you fat. Breakfast-skippers have a higher risk of obesity, according to a 2003 study published in the journal of Epidemiology. Eating earlier in the day prevents people from overeating later in the day. 
Why Breakfast Is the Most Important Meal of the Day. Reviewed by Kathleen M. Zelman, MPH, RD, LD on September 05, 2014. Some people skip breakfast in an effort to lose weight, but that's not a good idea. It can backfire. Skipping meals, especially breakfast, can actually make weight control more difficult.
The side effects of not eating breakfast negatively impact weight, hormonal health, memory, cognition and mood. Furthermore, eating breakfast boosts your metabolism and increases your energy throughout the day. A study in the August 2013 issue of the British Journal of Nutrition reports that when you do not eat breakfast, your energy is reduced and physical activity levels decline.
Consequences of Not Eating a Healthy Breakfast. By not eating a healthy breakfast, you cheat yourself all day. Several detrimental consequences affect your work performance and ability to focus. This is in addition to consequences that affect your health. Bagels, English muffins and other rolls aren't bad for you and are much better than croissants or doughnuts. You have choices that can lead to a healthy life and deter those unwanted consequences of not eating a healthy breakfast. .
1 In addition, the prolonged fasting that occurs when you skip breakfast can increase your body's insulin response, which in turn increases fat storage and weight gain. 2  Healthy choices. 3  Eating breakfast may get you on track to make healthy choices all day. 1 Eating breakfast may get you on track to make healthy choices all day. 2  People who eat breakfast tend to eat a healthier overall diet, one that is more nutritious and lower in fat. 3  In contrast, people who skip breakfast are more likely to skip fruits and vegetables the rest of the day, too. 4  More energy.
Skipping meals can have negative consequences. This is an excerpt from Eating on the Run, Third Edition, by Evelyn Tribole. Let’s look at the problems of skipping meals or going so long without eating that it’s like a mini-fast. One of the biggest consequences is what I call primal hunger. That’s when your body gets so hungry that anything goes: all honorable intentions about health fly out the window. Your body is hardwired for survival, and if you go too long without eating, it goes into survival mode by sending you on a food quest