Origin of the name Kathleen: Anglicized form of the Irish Caitlin, caitlín which is A gaelic form Of (katherine, pure), unsullied derived via The Old French. Catheline From A world Of Baby names By Teresa. norman Meanings and history of the name Kathleen : | Edit. My name is Kathleen. I have always liked my name, and never thought of myself as anything but Kathleen. I was born in 1957, and always knew several Kathys, and when I was an adolescent I tried to get everyone to call me Kate but it never caught on.
The name Kathleen is of Irish origin, and it means Pure . It's a name commonly given to girls. 
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Kathleen and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Kathleen and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. Kathleen Name Meaning. The meaning of Kathleen is “Pure, Virginal”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant.
Kathleen /kath-leen/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced kath-LEEN. It is of Irish and Greek origin, and the meaning of Kathleen is pure. Variant of Katherine. First used outside of Ireland in the 1840s. Actress Kathleen Turner. Kathleen is a very popular first name for females (#36 out of 4276, Top 1%) and a slightly less popular surname for both adults and children (#109328 out of 150436, Top 73%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Kathleen for girls.
Hello, Guest. Kathleen is the early Irish import version that came between Katherine and Kaitlin, and which hasn't been used in so long it's almost beginning to sound fresh again. It was a surprise pick by one of the hip Dixie Chicks, Martie Maguire. But on the US popularity list, it's in decline, plummeting 100 places since 2009. 
Kathleen is a given name, used in English and Irish-language communities. Sometimes spelled Cathleen, it is an Anglicized form of Caitlin, caitlín The irish form Of, cateline which was The Old french form Of. Catherine it ultimately derives from The greek Name, aikaterine the meaning of which is highly (debated See). katherine 
Baby names meanings search results: The name Kathleen is a baby girl name. The name Kathleen comes from the Irish origin. In Irish The meaning of the name Kathleen is: Variant of Katherine: Pure. Clear. Innocent. From the Gaelic form Caitlin
In Greek the meaning of the name Kathleen is: Pure. SoulUrge Number: 11. Expression Number: 4. People with this name have a deep inner desire to inspire others in a higher cause, and to share their own strongly held views on spiritual matters. 