It is not possible to prevent all back injuries, but some steps can be taken to help lower the risk of a sprain or strain: 1  Eat a healthy, well-balanced diet to keep your bones and muscles strong. 2  Maintain a healthy weight. 3  Exercise regularly, including stretching, to keep your joints flexible and your muscles in good condition. 4  Practice safety ... 
Treating Sprains and Strains. For these types of injuries, you will need to follow the RICE treatment (rest, ice, compression, and elevation). Over-the-counter pain medication can also be used to alleviate pain and reduce inflammation. 
Muscle Strain Overview. Muscle strain is injury to muscle as a result of strenuous activity. Almost anyone can put undue tension on muscles during the course of normal daily activities, with sudden, quick heavy lifting, during sports, or while performing work tasks. Muscle strain is sometimes referred to as muscle pull. 
How muscles work. The purpose of muscles is to allow the body to move. A muscle attaches to bone, either directly or by way of a tendon, on each side of a joint. When the muscle contracts, the joint moves through its range of motion. Muscle sprains and strains facts. 1  A sprain is abnormal stretching or tearing of a ligament that supports a joint. 2  A strain is abnormal stretching or tearing of a muscle or tendon. 3  Sprains and strains may be caused by repetitive activities or by a single event. 4  The diagnosis of a sprain or strain usually can be made after the healthcare 5  ... RICE ...
An injury to a ligament as a result of abnormal or excessive forces applied to a joint, but without dislocation or fracture. 2. To cause a sprain of a joint. (sprān) a joint injury in which some of the fibers of a supporting ligament are ruptured but the continuity of the ligament remains intact. sprain. 1. An injury to a ligament when the joint is carried through a range of motion greater than normal, but without dislocation or fracture. 2. To cause a sprain of a joint.
All of these can cause a minor to major ankle sprain. [frame_right alt=”Sprained Ankle” title=”Sprained Ankle”]http://www.pulled-muscle.com/images/ankle-sprain.jpg[/frame_right]A sprained ankle can be extremely common in all sports, such as: 1  football. 2  fitness walking. 3  hockey. 4  gymnastics. 5  volleyball. 6  basketball. 7  baseball. 8  running. 9  track and field events. 10  rugby. 11  tennis. 12  field hockey. 13  soccer.
Lower back strain is caused by damage to the muscles and ligaments of the back. Learn about muscle anatomy and the symptoms of lower back strain. Back Strains and Sprains Video. A muscle strain or a muscle sprain in the back is the most common cause of back pain. 
sprain, a traumatic injury to the tendons, muscles, or ligaments around a joint, characterized by pain, swelling, and discoloration of the skin over the joint. The duration and severity of the symptoms vary with the extent of damage to the tissues. Treatment includes support, rest, and alternating cold and heat. sprain. 1. An injury to a ligament when the joint is carried through a range of motion greater than normal, but without dislocation or fracture. 2. To cause a sprain of a joint.