The BAM fabric for socks, however, is made with 78% bamboo plus 20% polyamide and 2% elastane, to ensure just enough stretch and strength. 
Bamboo fabric is very soft and can be worn directly next to the skin. Many people who experience allergic reactions to other natural fibers, such as wool or hemp, do not complain of this issue with bamboo. Using bamboo for fabric will not lead to the endangerment of Pandas. Bamboo is an incredibly hearty plant, growing almost three meters a day. It is not harvested from the root, but from the ground up.
Bamboo Jersey. Naturally bacteria and odor resistant, bamboo is the practical, yet eco-friendly choice. True to a natural fiber, bamboo jersey is already absorbent and breathable, but the addition of elastane ensures a comfortability that is unmatched. The strength of bamboo adds to the durability of the fabric and is found to work well for those who are allergic to other natural fibers. 1  All. 
It is 60 wide and weighs in at a heavy 16 ounces per yard. You might try our bamboo stretch french terry if we are out of this, it is a great alternative. One side of our bamboo stretch fleece is a silky soft knit and the other side may remind you of fine cashmere. It is so soft, both sides are a delight to touch
Bamboo Jersey. Bamboo fabrics have taken the sewing world by storm, and with good reason. This fabric is sound ecologically, has reputed microbial properties, and it is comfortable to wear. Bamboo is also easy to sew, and travels beautifully. This is truly a wonder fabric! Bamboo jersey is similar in weight to matte jersey, and with similar drape. Some bamboo jersey is blended with a bit of lycra, which gives it a more springy quality and 4-way stretch. If you have a serger, a 4-thread overlock stitch is recommended. Seams do not require finishes in this fabric; it does not ravel. Hem your bamboo jersey with a stretch twin needle (size 4.0/75) or use your coverstitch machine for hems.
Bamboo fabric is a natural textile made from the pulp of the bamboo grass. Bamboo fabric has been growing in popularity because it has many unique properties and is more sustainable than most textile fibers. Bamboo fabric is light and strong, has excellent wicking properties, and is to some extent antibacterial. Using bamboo for fabric will not lead to the endangerment of Pandas. Bamboo is an incredibly hearty plant, growing almost three meters a day. It is not harvested from the root, but from the ground up.
only stretch (a tiny bit) along the bias (45 degrees) to the weave, and you can pull weaves apart easily. Our bamboo fabric is loop-knitted together with fibers approximately .005 inch diameter in a dense pattern that, when stretched, opens up to allow resin through the voids for a highly fiber-dense composite.
Bamboo fabric is a natural textile made from the pulp of the bamboo grass. Bamboo fabric has been growing in popularity because it has many unique properties and is more sustainable than most textile fibers. Bamboo fabric is light and strong, has excellent wicking properties, and is to some extent antibacterial. The use of bamboo fiber for clothing was a 20th century development, pioneered by several Chinese corporations. Bamboo fiber resembles cotton in its unspun form, a puffball of light, airy fibers. Many companies use extensive bleaching processes to turn bamboo fiber white, although companies producing organic bamboo fabric leave the bamboo fiber unbleached.
Other than the bio-degradable, sustainable, and pollution free manufacturing factors, our bamboo fabric is knit as opposed to woven. So it exhibits elasticity and strength in all directions. Woven fiberglass, carbon fiber, etc. Our bamboo fabric is loop-knitted together with fibers approximately .005 inch diameter in a dense pattern that, when stretched, opens up to allow resin through the voids for a highly fiber-dense composite.