Arabic is the one of the most widely spoken language in Africa at large. However, its use is concentrated in North Africa and Sub-Saharan Africa. Examples of countries include North Sudan, Egypt, Algeria, Chad, Djibouti, Libya and Tunisia.
gbogboti: Swahili is most widely spoken African language. Swahili is spoken in these countries: Tanzania 99%, Kenya 87%, Uganda 85%, Burundi 55%, Democratic Republic of the Congo 48%, Rwanda 28%, Swahili is also spoken in southern Somalia, Ethiopia and Sudan and northern Mozambique and the Comoros Islands.
Sesotho sa Leboa is the fourth most common language in South Africa, spoken as a home language by 9.1% of the population, or 4.6-million people. It is one of South Africa's three Sotho languages, with different dialect clusters found in the area where it is spoken.
Answer. Swahili is most widely spoken African language. Swahili is spoken in these countries: Tanzania 99%, Kenya 87%, Uganda 85%, Burundi 55%, Democratic Republic of the Congo 48%, Rwanda 28%, Swahili is also spoken in southern Somalia, Ethiopia and Sudan and northern Mozambique and the Comoros Islands.
Africa is second largest and second most populous continent in the world with a total population of 1.111 billion. African languages belong to one of the four language families: Afroasiatic, Nilo-Saharan, Niger-Congo and Khoisan. Around 2,000 languages are spoken in Africa.
Answer Swahili is most widely spoken African language. Swahili is spoken in these countries: Tanzania 99%, Kenya 87%, Ugan … da 85%, Burundi 55%, Democratic Republic of the Congo 48%, Rwanda 28%, Swahili is also spoken in southern Somalia, Ethiopia and Sudan and northern Mozambique and the Comoros Islands.
Afrikaans. Afrikaans is the third most common language in South Africa. It is spoken by 13.5% of the population, or 6 855 082 people mainly coloured and white South Africans. The language has its roots in 17th century Dutch, with influences from English, Malay, German, Portuguese, French, and some African languages.