The millipede has a long and narrow body which is made up of segments. The millipede is from the same family as the centipede, but the millipede generally has more legs for it's body length than the centipede. The average millipede has between 80 and 400 legs, not a thousand as the name suggests. Each time the baby millipedes shed their skin they develop more body segments and leg
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The lifespan of a centipede is approximately 5-7 years. A house centipede can live around 5 years, and a centipede in captivity can live up to 7 years. The average is around 6 years. Lifespan is how old the average female or male will live in years for example the average lifespan in china for females is 74.5 years but of course you might live longer than … that but its just an average.
For example, Scutigera coleoptrata, the American house centipede, hatches with only 4 pairs of legs and in successive moults has 5, 7, 9, 11, 15, 15, 15 and 15 before becoming a sexually mature adult. Life stages with fewer than 15 pairs of legs are called larval stadia (~5 stages). They are elongated metameric creatures with one pair of legs per body segment. Despite the name, centipedes can have a varying number of legs, ranging from 30 to 354. Centipedes always have an odd number of pairs of legs.
Appearance. Centipedes belong to class of Chilopoda. The name centipede, which means “100 legs,” can be somewhat misleading: centipedes may have anywhere from 15 to 177 pairs of legs. Centipedes are elongated, with flat, segmented bodies that contain a pair of legs per segment. Centipedes occur in several colors and patterns but most common are brown and reddish orange. They range in size from 4 to 152 mm, depending on the species. The heads of centipedes have a pair of long and sensitive antennae.
Despite their name, and the common conception that a centipede has 100 legs, this is in fact not true. The centipede has pairs of legs that run the length of the body of the centipede, which are normally between 15 and 30 pairs of legs in total and not 50. 
Centipedes (from Latin prefix centi- , hundred, and pes, pedis, foot) are arthropods belonging to the class Chilopoda of the subphylum Myriapoda. They are elongated metameric creatures with one pair of legs per body segment. Despite the name, centipedes can have a varying number of legs, ranging from 30 to 354. Centipedes always have an odd number of pairs of legs. Therefore, there is no centipede with exactly 100 legs
The house centipede has a lifespan of about 3 to 7 years of age. The females begin to lay eggs at around the age of 3. The average female house centipede can lay between 60 to 150 eggs at a time! 
Houseflies   the average lifespan of a housefly is 20 to 30 days in which time it can reproduse thousands more. Most Lizards have life span of around 2-3 years.   The life span of lizards varies depending on the species. But in  general, the larger the species of the lizard, the lo … nger it is  likely to live.
Answer   The lifespan of a centipede is approximately 5-7 years. A house centipede can live around 5 years, and a centipede in captivity can live up to 7 years. T … he average is around 6 years. 29 people found this useful. Most Lizards have life span of around 2-3 years.   The life span of lizards varies depending on the species. But in  general, the larger the species of the lizard, the lo … nger it is  likely to live.