Functions: Works as a hydrating agent. Making up for of 50% of our skin's natural protective barrier, ceramides retain moisture levels in the skin and help regulate cell activity. Some studies have shown that adding ceramides to skincare products effectively replenishes the skin's reduced ceramide levels. 
A lightweight, silky-smooth -- yet non-greasy -- serum for your face, neck and decolletage décolletage that instantly infuses your skin with-youth Restoring. Ceramides absorbs quickly to strengthen and repair the appearance of skin for a visible improvement in overall appearance and a noticeably more youthful. complexion As Seen On The Today Show. Fine lines happen when skin loses its ability to make the moisture-magnet lipids called Ceramides. This serum helps replenish your natural Ceramide levels and instantly retexturizes your skin for a firmer, smoother look and fewer wrinkles.
The researchers analyzed serum levels of ceramide, total sphingomyelin, and a variety of other lipids in 99 non-demented women aged 70-79, who had been followed in the WHAS II trial for up to nine years. During that time, 27 of the women developed dementia. Of those, 18 were diagnosed with probable AD. 
A luxurious serum that is also backed up by the science. Yes, this means I did indeed start being a skincare nerd and was trawling PubMed, ScienceDirect and the like to look up the key advertised ingredients.In the Elizabeth Arden Ceramide Capsules Daily Youth Restoring Serum, this is ceramide.
The first few ingredients in the Elizabeth Arden Ceramide Capsules Daily Youth Restoring Serum are the silicones dimethicone, cyclohexasiloxane and cyclopentasiloxane, which function as emollients and are used to spread the product out on skin and give it a better texture. Yes, this means I did indeed start being a skincare nerd and was trawling PubMed, ScienceDirect and the like to look up the key advertised ingredients.In the Elizabeth Arden Ceramide Capsules Daily Youth Restoring Serum, this is ceramide.
It is great for wrinkles, broken veins and skin tone. As well as ceramide (a favorite Osmotics ingredient), this anti-aging treatment attacks free radicals that damage skin cells in three different ways, with carnosine and aldenine. Read the full review. Skinfinite Platimum 1% Retinol ($63 in the shop). Yes, this has ceramide, but it also has a 1% retinol. It is one of the few retinol creams that get my vote. It doesn’t seem to irritate and there are good results within two months. Skin is hydrated with ceramide-2, shea butter and sodium hyaluronate, so unlike many retinols, Skinfinite Platinum is not drying
Serum ceramides increase the risk of Alzheimer disease: the Women's Health and Aging Study II. Mielke MM(1), Bandaru VV, Haughey NJ, Xia J, Fried LP, Yasar S, Albert M, Varma V, Harris G, Schneider EB, Rabins PV, Bandeen-Roche K, Lyketsos CG, Carlson MC. Author information: 
In this population-based sample of older women, high serum ceramide levels were associated with an increased risk of all-cause dementia independent of age, blood glucose and body mass index, the study authors concluded. The relationship between the biomarker and Alzheimer’s was stronger than for all-cause dementia. 
Ceramides are a family of waxy lipid molecules. A ceramide is composed of sphingosine and a fatty acid. Ceramides are found in high concentrations within the cell membrane of cells. They are one of the component lipids that make up sphingomyelin, one of the major lipids in the lipid bilayer. De novo synthesis of ceramide begins with the condensation of palmitate and serine to form 3-keto-dihydrosphingosine. This reaction is catalyzed by the enzyme serine palmitoyl transferase and is the rate-limiting step of the pathway.