Reiki is a spiritual, vibrational healing practice used to promote balance throughout the human system. Reiki does not involve physical manipulation or the ingestion or application of any substances, but works with the subtle vibrational field thought to surround and penetrate the body. 
Reiki means universal life energy and is an ancient healing method that manipulates energy flow in the body. Reiki practitioners believe there is an energy force in and around the body. They believe that there is a flow of energy between the reiki practitioner and the receiver of the treatment. It is thought that reiki releases energy flows and allows the body's own natural healing ability to work. Reiki focuses on seven main energy centers, called chakras, in your
A Brief Overview. Reiki is a Japanese technique for stress reduction and relaxation that also promotes healing. It is administered by laying on hands and is based on the idea that an unseen life force energy flows through us and is what causes us to be alive.
Reiki is a form of spiritual healing using universal life energy channelled through the practitioner to the recipient. Reiki helps to harmonize body, mind and spirit for yourself or anyone you want to help. Reiki treatment You relax, fully clothed, on a couch or seated while the healer holds his hands on or above you. 
Reiki (/ˈreɪkiː/) is a form of alternative medicine developed in 1922 by Japanese Buddhist Mikao Usui. Since its beginning in Japan, Reiki has been adapted across varying cultural traditions. It uses a technique commonly called palm healing or hands-on-healing. Through the use of this technique, practitioners believe that they are transferring universal energy through the palms of the practitioner, which they believe encourages healing. Reiki is considered pseudoscience. It is based on qi (chi), which practitioners say is a universal life force, although there is no empirical evidence that such a life force exists. Surveys of the clinical research do not show Reiki to be effective as a medical treatment
Reiki is a spiritual healing art with its roots in Japanese origin. The word Reiki comes from the Japanese word (Rei) which means “Universal Life” and (Ki) which means “Energy”. Reiki is not affiliated with any particular religion or religious practice. It is not massage nor is it based on belief or suggestion. It is a subtle and effective form of energywork using spiritually guided life force energy. Reiki is the life energy that flows through all living things. Reiki Practitioners understand that everyone has the ability to connect with their own healing energy and use it to strengthen energy in themselves and help others.
Reiki is a. in which practitioners place their hands lightly on or just above a person, with the goal of facilitating the person’s own healing response. 1  Reiki is based on an Eastern belief in an energy that supports the body’s innate or natural healing abilities. 1 Reiki is based on an Eastern belief in an energy that supports the body’s innate or natural healing abilities. 2  However, there isn’t any scientific evidence that such an energy exists. 3  Reiki has been studied for a variety of conditions, including pain, anxiety, fatigue, and depression.
Reiki is a very specific form of energy healing, in which hands are placed just off the body or lightly touching the body, as in “laying on of hands.” Reiki can also be done “long-distance,” as a form of prayer. 
View full size image. Reiki is a therapy often described as palm healing or hands-on-body healing in which a practitioner places hands lightly on or over a patient's body to facilitate the patient's process of healing. Reiki combines the Japanese and Chinese word-characters of rei (spiritual or supernatural) and ki (vital energy). 
Many Reiki practitioners assume Reiki energy is a distinct entity. It’s possible, however, that Usui was referring not to something distinct, but rather to all subtle bio-energies, a group of putative biofield energies that includes qi* (or the Japanese ki) and prana (which is very different from qi/ki). 