The Harlem Renaissance took place in the Manhattan neighborhood of Harlem, in the 1920s through the early 1930s. There are actually two Harlems, West Harlem and East Harlem. 1 4 Famous Women Of the Harlem Renaissance Around the 1920s in Harlem, New York, a new movement which celebrated African American art and culture was thriving. 2  The New Negro Movement, as it was called at the time, g….
West Harlem is where the Harlem Renaissance mostly took place, and has traditionally been a black neighborhood (although in recent years it has seen a big increase in its white population). East Harlem (also known as Spanish Harlem) is a predominantly Latino neighborhood. But generally speaking, West Harlem runs south to north from West 110th Street to West 145th Street, and west to east from the Hudson River to Lexington Avenue. Spanish Harlem runs south to north from East 96th Street to East 145th Street, and west to east from Lexington Avenue to the East River.
QUESTION. *Renaissance means: rebirth of music, arts, poetry, and creativity. *Harlem Renaissance was an African American Cultural Movement that took place in Harlem New York. *Was primarily a literacy movement, but had a tremendous effect on poetry, and music. 
The Harlem Renaissance was the name given to the cultural, social, and artistic explosion that took place in Harlem between the end of World War I and the middle of the 1930s. During this period Harlem was a cultural center, drawing black writers, artists, musicians, photographers, poets, and scholars. 
The Harlem Renaissance took place in the Manhattan neighborhood of Harlem, in the 1920s through the early 1930s. But generally speaking, West Harlem runs south to north from West 110th Street to West 145th Street, and west to east from the Hudson River to Lexington Avenue. Spanish Harlem runs south to north from East 96th Street to East 145th Street, and west to east from Lexington Avenue to the East River.
The Harlem Renaissance, also referred to as The New Negro Movement, has been described in a multitude of ways. It has been called a blossoming of African American culture especially in the creative arts, a flowering of African American intellectual life, andthe efflorescence of African-American cultural production. When we refer to the ‘Who’s of the Harlem Renaissance, there are three groups we must consider. The first group is the millions of African Americans that participated in one of the main catalysts to the Harlem Renaissance – The Great Migration.
The Harlem Renaissance was a movement that spanned the 1920s. The Harlem Renaissance was the name given to the cultural, social, and artistic explosion that took place in Harlem, New York. During the time, it was known as the  New Negro Movement , named after the 1925 anthology by Alain Locke. Though it was centered in the Harlem neighborhood of the borough of Manhattan in New York City, in addition, many francophone black writers from African and Caribbean colonies who lived in Paris were also influenced by the Harlem Renaissance.
/   B. Cities throughout the South copied the events taking place in  Harlem. C. Harlem became the wealthiest neighborhood in New York  City. D. Jazz venues, s … uch as the Cotton Club, welcomed an  integrated audience. But generally speaking, West Harlem runs south to north from West 110th Street to West 145th Street, and west to east from the Hudson River to Lexington Avenue. Spanish Harlem runs south to north from East 96th Street to East 145th Street, and west to east from Lexington Avenue to the East River.
The Harlem Renaissance is usually defined as a time during the 1920s where there was a big boom in the amount and quality of black cultural work. This boom was largely centered in New York City. When I say cultural. I mean literature, art and music. 