1 Feline tooth resorption, also commonly called FORLs (feline odontoclastic resorptive lesions), is a very common oral disease, affecting from 30 to 40 percent of adult kitties. Tooth resorption is the gradual destruction of a tooth or teeth caused by cells called odontoclasts. Tooth resorption usually starts on the outside of a tooth at the gum line. The condition is most common in premolars in the lower jaw, but can occur in any tooth.
Print. Tooth resorption (TR) is one of the more common oral abnormalities seen in cats. In the past, tooth resorption was referred to as feline oral resorptive lesions, odontoclastic resorptions, cavities, caries, cervical neck lesions, external or internal root resorptions, and cervical line erosions
Feline Dental Disease. As in dogs, is very common in cats. In addition, there are oral conditions that are more common in cats than in dogs. Fig 1. Periodontal disease surrounding teeth of a cat. The most common is tooth resorption. Fig 2. Tooth resorption affecting the maxillary canine tooth in a cat. Fig 3. Tooth resorption affecting a mandibular premolar tooth in a cat. Tooth Resorption. Feline tooth resorption typically originates in the cementum, may progress into root dentin, and then either progress through the root, into the crown, or both.
Processing .... Tooth Resorption in cats Feline tooth resorption is a common and painful condition in domestic cats. Studies have shown well over 50% of adult cats develop tooth resorption. The teeth become functionally destroyed as a result of tooth (dental) resorption. 
Email Article. Cats are prone to a serious and very painful dental disease called 'tooth resorption.' This condition was previously referred to as 'feline oral resorptive lesions' (FORLs). Various studies have found 28-67% of cats have tooth resorption. 
Feline Tooth Resorption (TR) is a syndrome in cats characterized by resorption of the tooth by odontoclasts, cells similar to osteoclasts. TR has also been called feline odontoclastic resorption lesion (FORL), neck lesion, cervical neck lesion, cervical line erosion, feline caries, or feline cavity. TRs have been seen more recently in the history of feline medicine due to the advancing ages of cats, but 800-year-old cat skeletons have shown evidence of this disease. Purebred cats, especially Siamese and Persians, may be more susceptible.
As low as $3.19. Cats are prone to a serious dental disease called 'external odontoclastic resorption lesions' (EORLs), 'cervical line lesions,' or 'neck lesions.' This is the most common disease in feline dentistry. Various studies have found 28-67% of cats have resorption lesions. 
Feline Tooth Resorption (FTR) is a disease of the teeth and periodontium of cats. Feline Odontoclastic Resorptive Lesion (FORL) is the term used to describe the lesions present. 
Story at-a-glance 1  +. Feline tooth resorption, also commonly called FORLs (feline odontoclastic resorptive lesions), is a very common oral disease, affecting from 30 to 40 percent of adult kitties. Tooth resorption is the gradual destruction of a tooth or teeth caused by cells called odontoclasts. Tooth resorption usually starts on the outside of a tooth at the gum line. The condition is most common in premolars in the lower jaw, but can occur in any tooth.
Of the four major feline oral diseases, tooth resorption is the most common. Estimates are the condition affects between about 30 to 40 percent of healthy adult cats, and from 60 to 80 percent of kitties who visit the vet for treatment of dental disease. Tooth resorption is the gradual destruction of a tooth or teeth caused by cells called odontoclasts. Tooth resorption usually starts on the outside of a tooth at the gum line. The condition is most common in premolars in the lower jaw, but can occur in any tooth.