bronchial tree, an anatomic complex of the trachea and bronchi. The bronchi branch from the trachea. The right bronchus is wider and shorter than the left bronchus and branches into three secondary bronchi, one passing to each of the three lobes of the right lung. 1. an anatomical structure with branches resembling a tree. 2. in information science, a decision tree. bronchial tree. the trachea, bronchi and successive branching generations of the respiratory passages.
an anatomic structure with branches resembling a tree. bronchial tree the bronchi and their branching structures; see color plates. tracheobronchial tree the trachea, bronchi, and their branching structures; see color plates. 1. an anatomical structure with branches resembling a tree. 2. in information science, a decision tree. bronchial tree. the trachea, bronchi and successive branching generations of the respiratory passages.
Tracheobronchial injury (TBI) is damage to the tracheobronchial tree (the airway structure involving the trachea and bronchi). It can result from blunt or penetrating trauma to the neck or chest, inhalation of harmful fumes or smoke, or aspiration of liquids or objects. Early diagnosis is important to prevent complications, which include stenosis (narrowing) of the airway, respiratory tract infection, and damage to the lung tissue. Diagnosis involves procedures such as bronchoscopy, radiography, and x-ray computed tomography to visualize the tracheobronchial tree.
http://www.anatomyzone.com. 3D anatomy tutorial providing a basic introduction to respiratory anatomy using the Zygote Body Browser (http://www.zygotebody.com). This is the second part of the tutorial and covers the bronchial tree and lungs. Join the Facebook page for updates: http://www.facebook.com/anatomyzone.
The trachea and bronchi form the tracheobronchial tree. The trachea is situated between the lower end of the larynx and the center of the chest, where it splits into the two bronchi at a ridge called the carina. Early diagnosis is important to prevent complications, which include stenosis (narrowing) of the airway, respiratory tract infection, and damage to the lung tissue. Diagnosis involves procedures such as bronchoscopy, radiography, and x-ray computed tomography to visualize
The trachea, bronchi and bronchioles form the tracheobronchial tree – a system of airways that allow passage of air into the lungs, where gas exchange occurs. The trachea marks the beginning of the tracheobronchial tree. It arises at the lower border of cricoid cartilage in the neck, as a continuation of the larynx. By Bibi Saint-Pol [CC BY-SA 3.0], via Wikimedia Commons. Fig 1.0 – Overview
Bronchi. At the level of the sternal angle, the trachea bifurcates into the right and left main bronchi. They undergo further branching to produce the secondary bronchi. Each secondary bronchi supplies a lobe of the lung, and gives rise to several segmental bronchi. The trachea marks the beginning of the tracheobronchial tree. It arises at the lower border of cricoid cartilage in the neck, as a continuation of the larynx. By Bibi Saint-Pol [CC BY-SA 3.0], via Wikimedia Commons. Fig 1.0 – Overview
Tweet. This follows the page describing the basic anatomy of the lower respiratory tract. The term  tracheobronchial tree  or  respiratory tree  refers to the structures of bronchi and bronchioles that terminate with the alveolar ducts, sacs, and, finally, alveoli-that are contained within the lungs. Therefore these structures are also referred to as  airways . This pages includes two diagrams of the airways-the main structure of the tracheobroncial tree being shown immediately below, and a second diagram showing the alveoli in further detail further down the page.
Med., PhD, MRCVS The tracheobronchial tree delivers and distributes air within the lung. Normally it provides a lowresistance to airﬂow. Airway smooth muscle, the mucociliary system, the bronchial circulation, andcough provide neurally mediated protection of the lung from environmental challenges. This airway obstruction causes difficultbreathing, impairs gas exchange, and reduces thehorse’s performance. 2. Functional Anatomy of the Airways The equine tracheobronchial tree branches in amonopodial manner. In each region of lung corre-sponding to a lobe, there is one major bronchus,which divides multiple times.
tree. an anatomic structure with branches resembling a tree. bronchial tree the bronchi and their branching structures; see color plates. tracheobronchial tree the trachea, bronchi, and their branching structures; see color plates. 