We offer the below test prep classes for the corresponding NCCER Certification. Click here for class schedule. 1  1 Day Basic Rigging Test Prep-This course reviews all items of knowledge needed to take the Basic Exam. 2  1 Day Intermediate Rigging Test Prep – Primary focus is on rigging selection and sling tension. 
NCCER Craft Written Certifications and Performance Verifications. Nationally recognized Craft Certifications are now a part of the requirements to work in most of the Plant Facilities, for Maintenance and New Construction. This is not only true for the plant employees but the contractor s employees that work at those sites.
One of the major services that NCCER provides is its National Registry. The National Registry is maintained and updated by NCCER and is a secure database which tracks the credentials of all the craftsmen who participate in NCCER’s training and assessment programs. NCCER then reimburses 13 cents for all expenditures that are for approved training or workforce development. The remaining 2 cents goes to NCCER to help support its workforce development, training, and advancement activities.
Associated Builders and Contractors, Inc. (ABC) has been partners with NCCER as it relates to the training curriculum. Since 1989, ABC’s Pelican Chapter in Baton Rouge, La. is the primary institute that ISC has utilized for its craft training needs. NCCER is a 501(C)(3) non-profit organization and is a nationally recognized organization especially with regards to craft training and certification. For more information visit their website at www.NCCER.org.
To help accomplish its mission, NCCER is partnered with 40 different national associations and organizations across the country that share the same goals and objectives. NCCER is funded in part by the National Training Service Agreement (NTSA). NCCER then reimburses 13 cents for all expenditures that are for approved training or workforce development. The remaining 2 cents goes to NCCER to help support its workforce development, training, and advancement activities.
NCCER, an acronym for The National Center for Construction Education and Research, is a not-for-profit education foundation that was founded in 1996. NCCER then reimburses 13 cents for all expenditures that are for approved training or workforce development. The remaining 2 cents goes to NCCER to help support its workforce development, training, and advancement activities.
Master Trainer. A Master Trainer is an individual who has been certified in accordance with NCCER’s Instructor Certification Training Program (ICTP) for Master Trainers and is authorized to train craft instructors. Master trainers are trained and certified directly by NCCER. This program ensures the uniform and consistent delivery of training. Through this program, NCCER certifies the Master Trainer, who in turn certifies the local Craft Instructor. This network of certified instructors assures that NCCER training programs meet the standards of instruction set by the industry.
An NCCER wallet card is not representation of certification but rather proof that the card holder has been entered into NCCER s National Registry. It is the responsibility of the employer to verify a person's credentials using. Online Verification. 
NCCER Certified Craft. ISC is affiliated with the National Center for Construction and Education Research (NCCER) which developed the Contren Learning Series Curriculum for craft training. NCCER is a 501(C)(3) non-profit organization and is a nationally recognized organization especially with regards to craft training and certification. For more information visit their website at www.NCCER.org.
A Master Trainer is an individual certified in accordance with NCCER's Instructor Certification Training Program (ICTP) for Master Trainers. A Master Trainer is the only person authorized to teach ... 