Put eggs in a pot and cover with cold water. Bring to a boil. Boil for 5 minutes. Turn off heat, cover pot, and set a timer for 10 minutes. Done! Heidi says. That is how Rachael Ray does it. But I could never the time you boil for and set for. 1 Bring water to a boil then turn down the heat and simmer for 15 to 20 minutes (depending on how “hard” you want them.). 2  Allow the eggs to cool enough to be able to handle and then peel them.
Rinse your eggs in warm water (you can use eggs you just collected that morning, if you want) and place them in the top of the steamer. Steam for 20 minutes and then plunge the eggs into a bowl of ice water until they are cool enough to peel. :) I used to boil my eggs for 5+ minutes to get hard boiled eggs, but recently learned of this method which is I bring the water to a boil, put a cover on, turn off the heat and let them sit for 15 minutes, then into the ice cold water. It's not really steaming and not really boiling either, but somewhere in the middle.
This method works best if the eggs are in a single layer, but you can double them up as well, you'll just need to add more time to the steaming time. 3 Set your timer for 6 minutes for soft boiled, 10 minutes for hard boiled with a still translucent and bright yolk, or 12-15 minutes for cooked-through hard boiled. A steamer basket is convenient, but not necessary. 1 If you are using a steamer basket, fill a saucepan with as much water as needed to reach the bottom of the steamer basket (about 1 inch or so). If you are not using a steamer basket, just fill the bottom of a saucepan with 1/2 inch of water. 2 Heat the water on high heat until it is boiling and producing steam. Turn off the heat and gently place the eggs at the bottom of the steamer basket or the bottom of the pan
Directions. 1. If serving eggs cold, add 1 tray of ice cubes to a large bowl and fill with water. Fill a large pot with 1 inch of water. Place steamer insert inside, cover, and bring to a boil over high heat. Add eggs to steamer basket, cover, and continue cooking 6 minutes for soft boiled or 12 minute for hard. Serve immediately if serving hot.
I learned this tip from a foodie friends of mine. She heard about steaming eggs rather than boiling them to make them easier to peel. I experimented with steaming them also and will never go back to boiling eggs. Just steam the eggs in a vegetable steamer set over boiling water for 10 minutes. I cooled and peeled mine right away, my friend took hers off the heat and let them set for an additional 10 minutes before peeling. Both ways worked a treat.
Depending on how cooked you like your hard boiled eggs, the eggs should be done perfectly in 10-12 minutes. That said, depending on your altitude, the shape of the pan, the size of the eggs, the ratio of water to eggs, it can take a few minutes more. Older eggs are easier to peel than fresh eggs. If you are planning to make hard boiled eggs for Easter and want to make sure that the eggs are easy to peel, buy your eggs at least a week ahead of time (two weeks even better, they'll keep). If you need easy-to-peel eggs and you have fresh eggs, you might want to try steaming the eggs for 15 minutes. Pour an inch of water into a pot and insert a steamer basket.Bring to a boil. Place the eggs in the steamer basket, cover and steam for 15 minutes (more or less, check!)
1 (You want enough water in the pan so that you can boil for 15 to 20 minutes.). 2  Add eggs to basket and cover the pan with a lid. 3  Bring water to a boil then turn down the heat and simmer for 15 to 20 minutes (depending on how “hard” you want them.). 4  Allow the eggs to cool enough to be able to handle and then peel them. 1 Bring water to a boil then turn down the heat and simmer for 15 to 20 minutes (depending on how “hard” you want them.). 2
up vote 0 down vote. Bring the water to a boil first then cover and reduce the heat to med-high, not low then set timer for 10 to 15 minutes depending on size of eggs and how done you want the center. I like them slightly soft and do extra large eggs at 11 minutes. Another source implies 7 minutes. http://whatscookingwithkids.com/2011/05/27/forget-hard-boiling-eggs-steamed-eggs-are-easy-to-peel/ (In the comments.). And then there is the usual time for hard-boiling, which is 10 minutes.