Super Volcanoes are the most dangerous because of their enormous eruption therefore their destructive nature. Super Volcanoes such as Yellowstone and Taupo, New Zealand are good examples. Both are Ryolite volcanoes with gaseous magma which results in aerated rock such as pumice. I want to know what the most dangerous type of volcano is and why it is the most dangerous. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel. I think this question violates the Community Guidelines. I think this question violates the Terms of Service.
Shield Cone Volcano. Shield Cone Volcanoes are volcanoes with gradual sloping sides, wide bases, and flat craters. They are volcanoes that are created by freely flowing lava, or quiet eruptions. Mauna Loa Volcano, Hawaii. Photograph by D. Little. Cinder Cone Volcano. Cinder Cone Volcanoes are volcanoes with steep sides, and bowl shaped craters. These volcanoes are created by a buildup of cinder and ash. The Cinder Cone Volcano is usually the most dangerous type of volcano because it tends to explode when it erupts.hese volcanoes are formed by lava flows and volcanic rocks. Another name for Composite-Cone Volcanoes are Stratovolcano. Composite-Cone Volcanoes are know to have two kinds of eruptions, free-flowing, or slow moving, and violent erupts.
The most dangerous types of volcanoes are Dormant Volcanoes because  they erupt frequently. Additionally, volcanoes that haven't erupted  in over one hundred years can be ve … ry dangerous. The most dangerous New Zealand volcanoes would be listed by the damage done. The Taupo volcano would top the list, and in recent times, White Island, Mt Tarawera, and Ruapehu … would be on the list. All essentially part of the Taupo Volcanic Zone.
Confidence votes 3. The most dangerous types of volcanoes are Dormant Volcanoes because they erupt frequently. Additionally, volcanoes that haven't erupted in over one hundred years can be very dangerous. What is the least dangerous type of volcano? there are a few types of volcanoes that are not dangerous,the types with a low level of lava,magma and ash.the soil near THOSE volcanoes are good for farming.most people live … next to volcanoes that are not active or already have erupted.
They are the most dangerous type of volcano. Examples include: Yellowstone Caldera in Yellowstone National Park and Valles Caldera in New Mexico (both western United States); Lake Taupo in New Zealand; Lake Toba in Sumatra, Indonesia; and Ngorongoro Crater in Tanzania. The most common perception of a volcano is of a conical mountain, spewing lava and poisonous gases from a crater at its summit; however, this describes just one of the many types of volcano. The features of volcanoes are much more complicated and their structure and behavior depends on a number of factors.
In Volcanoes. there are a few types of volcanoes that are not dangerous,the types with a low level of lava,magma and ash.the soil near THOSE volcanoes are good for farming.most people live … next to volcanoes that are not active or already have erupted. What is the least dangerous type of volcano? there are a few types of volcanoes that are not dangerous,the types with a low level of lava,magma and ash.the soil near THOSE volcanoes are good for farming.most people live … next to volcanoes that are not active or already have erupted.
The most dangerous New Zealand volcanoes would be listed by the damage done. The Taupo volcano would top the list, and in recent times, White Island, Mt Tarawera, and Ruapehu … would be on the list. All essentially part of the Taupo Volcanic Zone. What is the least dangerous type of volcano? there are a few types of volcanoes that are not dangerous,the types with a low level of lava,magma and ash.the soil near THOSE volcanoes are good for farming.most people live … next to volcanoes that are not active or already have erupted.
2. Mount Vesuvius in Campagnia, Italy has a history of activity that makes it one of the world’s most dangerous volcanoes. It last erupted in 1944, but it usually has an eruption cycle of just 20 years. Moreover, 3 million people live relatively close to the crater, as it sits just 5 miles east of Naples.ount Vesuvius (Photo credit: Wikipedia). Mt. Vesuvius is the only volcano to have erupted on the European mainland within the last hundred years, and is probably most famous for its massive eruption in 79 AD, when it buried the cities of Herculaneum and Pompeii.