It is used to weave some of the popular quilting fabrics which have a silk-like hand. Pique. Piqué a-medium weight cotton or cotton blend fabric with a pebbly weave that looks almost like a. Check suitable for, vests jackets and fitted. blouses A thick, soft fabric with a long nap. It is usually made of wool, such as mohair or alpaca, but can also be made from the hair of other animals, such as camels. Zibeline can also refer to either the sable (Martes zibellina) or its pelt, which zibeline was originally made from.
For example, on one side you'd see a white cat on a blue background facing left, and on the back side you'd see a blue cat on a white background facing right. So a ribbed jacquard double knit fabric is one that encompasses all of those features in one fabric. Without the ribbing it's not that hard to do. In all honesty, I suspect few knitters would tackle it ribbed on top of everything else.
Rib & Baby Rib. rib [rihb]: Rib knit is a double-knit fabric that knits the fabric in vertical ridged pattern called ribbing and highly stretched in crosswise direction. 
Faille is a type of fabric which is woven with a faintly ribbed pattern, creating a distinctive textured feel. This fabric is often used on formal dresses and gowns, and it can also be used to make jackets, vests, skirts and other garments. 
That's a mouthful. Ribbed means that it is worked with alternating knit and purl stitches with the knit stitches arranged in columns and the purl stitches in alternating c … olumns. Jacquard means it is a two color pattern, also called Fair Isle. So a ribbed jacquard double knit fabric is one that encompasses all of those features in one fabric. Without the ribbing it's not that hard to do. In all honesty, I suspect few knitters would tackle it ribbed on top of everything else.
Moire ribbons. In textiles, a moire (/ˈmwɑr/ or /ˈmɔr/), less often moire, moiré is a fabric with a (wavy) watered appearance produced mainly from, silk but also, wool cotton and. Rayon the watered appearance is usually created by the finishing technique called. calendering Changeable moire is a term for fabric with a warp of one color and a weft of another, which gives different effects in different lights. Moire fabric is more delicate than fabric of the same type that has not gone through the calendering process.
A ribbed fabric is a fabric with intervening raised lines or ribs. Ribbed fabrics may come in a variety of compositions including cotton, wool and silk. So a ribbed jacquard double knit fabric is one that encompasses all of those features in one fabric. Without the ribbing it's not that hard to do. In all honesty, I suspect few knitters would tackle it ribbed on top of everything else.
Knit fabrics are made of a combination of knit and purl stitches. The basic difference between those is whether the yarn is carried from stitch to stitch on the right or wrong side of the fabric. For knit stitches the yarn is carried on the back side. With purl stitches the yarn is carried on the front side. In the picture below, you can see the horizontal yarn carried on the wrong side of the fabric. This fabric is formed by knit stitches on the right side and purl stitches on the wrong side
That's a mouthful. Ribbed means that it is worked with alternating knit and purl stitches with the knit stitches arranged in columns and the purl stitches in alternating c … olumns. Jacquard means it is a two color pattern, also called Fair Isle. Basically it's two pieces of fabric with the private sides (insides) touching each other, but both sides of the fabric are knit at the same time. Each time a color changes, the two fabrics are joined together. The resulting effect is that one side is a mirrored negative of the other side.
Confidence votes 261K. Ribbed fabrics are any fabrics with a ribbed surface, especially corduroy. These fabrics are highly popular and can be sold at a variety of different stores including fabric organisations, John Lewis, Debenhams, Fabric-dreams. Basically it's two pieces of fabric with the private sides (insides) touching each other, but both sides of the fabric are knit at the same time. Each time a color changes, the two fabrics are joined together. The resulting effect is that one side is a mirrored negative of the other side.