50 facts about Redditch on its 50th birthday. Kingfisher Shopping Centre, Redditch. The New Town of Redditch in Worcestershire is officially 50 years old this week. It's now famous for its roads and roundabouts and for being something of a pioneer in new town development. But there's much more to Redditch than that. It's history is incredible, and it played a major role in manufacturing and developing technologies around the world. Our correspondent Keith Wilkinson has compiled a list of 50 facts about Redditch on this 50th anniversary year. 1 Rapid population growth in Redditch is not new. 2  It first happened to find enough people to make needles. 3  Harry Styles of One Direction was born in Redditch - 30 years after the New Town was born. 4  Redditch is known the world over for its manufacture of fishing tackle and hooks.
3D map of Redditch in United Kingdom. You can also dive right into Redditch on unique 3D satellite map provided by Google Earth. With new GoogLe Earth plugin you can enjoy the interactive Redditch 3D map within your web browser. The location of each Redditch hotel listed is shown on the detailed zoomable map. Moreover, Redditch hotel map is available where all hotels in Redditch are marked. You can easily choose your hotel by location.
Since the constituency's creation in 1997 it has consisted of the Borough of Redditch, and the District of Wychavon ward of Inkberrow. Redditch was created in 1997 following major changes to the Mid Worcestershire constituency.
Redditch is a constituency in East Worcestershire and in the south of the West Midlands (region) represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2010 by Karen Lumley, a Conservative. Redditch was created in 1997 following major changes to the Mid Worcestershire constituency.
The community of Redditch began at the time of the Bordesley Abbey, the charter was granted to the Cistercian Order in 1140. However, the history of the town is much related to the Industrial Revolution in England and its products were known throughout the world. Today, Redditch is a dynamic 21st Century town with an advanced transport network, a modern indoor shopping centre in the heart of the town and a robust local sense of community. However, the town has not lost its heritage and it is still at heart the attractive small town created 900 years ago.
Redditch, is a town and local government district in north-east Worcestershire, England, approximately 15 miles (24 km) south of Birmingham. The district had a population of 84,300 in 2011. The first recorded mention of Redditch ( Red-Ditch , thought to be a reference to the red clay of the nearby River Arrow) is in 1348, the year of the outbreak of the Black Death.
Redditch is a city/town with a small population in the state/region of Worcestershire, England which is located in the continent/region of Europe. Cities, towns and places near Redditch include Alvechurch, Astwood Bank, Barnt Green and Blackwell. 
Redditch is in Worcestershire, just south of the West Midlands urban area. It is 15 miles (24 km) north of Evesham on the A435, which skirts it to the east. The main access routes are the A441 via junction 2 of the M42 Motorway, the A435 from junction 3 of the M42 and the A448 via junctions 4 or 5 of the M5. The first recorded mention of Redditch ( Red-Ditch , thought to be a reference to the red clay of the nearby River Arrow) is in 1348, the year of the outbreak of the Black Death.
Welcome to the Redditch google satellite map! This place is situated in Worcestershire County, West Midlands, England, United Kingdom, its geographical coordinates are 52° 18' 0 North, 1° 56' 0 West and its original name (with diacritics) is Redditch. The location of each Redditch hotel listed is shown on the detailed zoomable map. Moreover, Redditch hotel map is available where all hotels in Redditch are marked. You can easily choose your hotel by location.