The amount of energy you'll get from carbohydrate, protein and fat is measured in calories per gram. Fats have the most energy and proteins have the same amount as carbohydrates, but their value as a source of energy is determined by more than the calories gained from one gram. Other factors, such as your activity level and diet, impact which macronutrient is used for energy
The macronutrients of proteins, carbohydrates, and lipids can be metabolized, or broken down, for ATP production within the human body. ATP, which stands for adenosine triphos … phate, is the process of converting energy back to its original source, in this case, the human body. Answered. There are three things that can produce ATP: chloroplast, cytoplasm, and mitochondria. There are three ways that ATP can be produced: photophosphorylation, substrate level p … hosphorylation, and oxidative phosphorylation. Most of ATP molecules are made from cellular respiration in the cell
Mitochondria are the main site for ATP synthesis in mammals, although some ATP is also synthesized in the cytoplasm. Lipids are broken down into fatty acids, proteins into amino acids, and carbohydrates into glucose. In general, the energy to synthesize ATP molecules must be obtained from rather complex fuel molecules. The human body uses three types of molecules to yield the necessary energy to drive ATP synthesis: fats, proteins, and carbohydrates.
The macronutrients of proteins, carbohydrates, and lipids can be metabolized, or broken down, for ATP production within the human body. ATP, which stands for adenosine triphos … phate, is the process of converting energy back to its original source, in this case, the human body. Answered. In Biology. It is produced in the mitochondria during cellular respiration, and a little is produ … ced in the light dependent reactions of photosynthesis, but this is later used up in the light independent reactions. ATP is used as an energy source for cells to carry out functions like active transport.
Like carbohydrates and lipids, proteins are one of the macronutrients. Though protein provides your body with 4 kcals per gram, giving you energy is not its primary role. Rather, it’s got way too many other things going on. In fact, your body contains thousands of different proteins, each with a unique function. 
Carbohydrates. Carbohydrates have four calories per gram. Sugars and starches get digested to produce glucose, which is the form of energy preferred by every cell in your body. They also have the advantage of being converted into energy faster than fats and protein. Fats have the most energy and proteins have the same amount as carbohydrates, but their value as a source of energy is determined by more than the calories gained from one gram.
One role of fatty acids within animal metabolism is energy production in the form of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) synthesis. When compared to other macronutrient classes (carbohydrates and protein), fatty acids yield the most ATP on an energy per gram basis by a pathway called β-oxidation. In addition, fatty acids are important for energy storage, phospholipid membrane formation, and signaling pathway
Nutrients are substances needed for growth, metabolism, and for other body functions. Macronutrients are nutrients that provide calories or energy. The prefix makro is from the Greek and means big or large, used because macronutrients are required in large amounts. There are three broad classes of macro-nutrients: proteins, carbohydrates, and fats. 