Women with postpartum depression will have symptoms that include loss of interest in activities, loss of appetite, low energy, a hard time falling asleep and staying asleep, frequent crying, and feelings of sadness, worthlessness, and hopelessness. A woman may also experience thoughts of harming herself.
Postpartum period is distinct in three phases. The third phase is the delayed postpartum period, which can last up to 6 months. Some changes to the genitourinary system are much longer in resolving, and some may never fully revert to the prepregnant state.
What type of mood disorders occur in the postpartum period?  Postpartum depression  10-20% of women affected  Greatest risk is first 12 weeks after delivery, but risk persists for one year  Symptoms last more than 14 days.
Postpartum patients should be carefully monitored for signs and symptoms of infection during this period. Common infections that may occur during the postpartum period include mastitis, endometritis, wound infections, and urinary tract infections.
My first postpartum period was at 15 months. The premenstrual symptoms were pretty much the same as for pre-pregnancy periods, but my periods were much lighter and quite irregular for several months.
Symptoms of postpartum depression are similar to what happens normally following childbirth. They include difficulty sleeping, appetite changes, excessive fatigue, decreased libido, and frequent mood changes.
The initial or acute period involves the first 6–12 hours postpartum. This is a time of rapid change with a potential for immediate crises such as postpartum hemorrhage, uterine inversion, amniotic fluid embolism, and eclampsia.
The Postpartum Period. During the postpartum period, about 85% of women experience some type of mood disturbance. For most the symptoms are mild and short-lived; however, 10 to 15% of women develop more significant symptoms of depression or anxiety.
The second phase is the subacute postpartum period, which lasts 2–6 weeks. During this phase, the body is undergoing major changes in terms of hemodynamics, genitourinary recovery, metabolism, and emotional status.