Freons are colorless, odorless, nonflammable, noncorrosive gases or liquids. Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) are highly stable compounds that were used as propellents in spray cans and in refrigeration units. They are several organic compounds composed of carbon, fluorine, chlorine, and hydrogen. CFCs Chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) is an organic compound that contains carbon, chlorine, and fluorine, produced as a volatile derivative of methane and ethane. A common subclass is the hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs), which contain hydrogen, as well. Freon is DuPont's brand name for CFCs, HCFCs and related compounds.
Commercial refrigerator and freezer units, which go by many other names, were in use for almost 40 years prior to the common home models. They used gas systems such as ammonia (R-717) or sulfur dioxide (R-764), which occasionally leaked, making them unsafe for home use. Commercial refrigerator and freezer units were in use for almost 40 years prior to the common home models. Most households use the freezer-on-top-and-refrigerator-on-bottom style, which has been the basic style since the 1940s.
CFCs Are used not just in fridges but in Freezers and air conditioners as well. The are used as a refrigerant. CFC's are not the only Refrigerants. the other two are Hydro chlorofluorocarbons or HCFCs, such as R-22 or R-123 Hydro fluorocarbons or HFCs, such as R-134a. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Actually new refrigerators do not use CFCs but other compounds that do not have chlorine. CFCs such as Freon were first used because they had the right properties to act as a refrigerant.
Today's Refrigerators. Modern refrigerators don't use CFC because CFCs are harmful to the atmosphere if released. Instead they use another type of gas called HFC-134a, also called tetrafluoroethane. HFC turns into a liquid when it is cooled to -15.9 degrees Fahrenheit (-26.6 degrees Celsius). When you pass the compressed gas through the coils on the back or bottom of a modern refrigerator, the warmer gas can lose its heat to the air in the room. Remember the law of thermodynamics. As it cools, the HFC can change into a liquid because it is under a high pressure.
A chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) is an organic compound that contains only carbon, chlorine, and fluorine, produced as a volatile derivative of methane, ethane, and propane. They are also commonly known by the DuPont brand name Freon. The most common representative is dichlorodifluoromethane (R-12 or Freon-12). 
Freezer units are used in households and in industry and commerce. Commercial refrigerator and freezer units were in use for almost 40 years prior to the common home models. Most households use the freezer-on-top-and-refrigerator-on-bottom style, which has been the basic style since the 1940s. A vapor compression cycle is used in most household refrigerators, refrigerator–freezers and freezers
Freon represents several different chlorofluorocarbons, or CFCs, which are used in commerce and industry. The CFCs are a group of aliphatic organic compounds containing the elements carbon and fluorine, and, in many cases, other halogens (especially chlorine) and hydrogen. CFCs Chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) is an organic compound that contains carbon, chlorine, and fluorine, produced as a volatile derivative of methane and ethane. A common subclass is the hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs), which contain hydrogen, as well. Freon is DuPont's brand name for CFCs, HCFCs and related compounds.
Refrigerant gas is a chemical product used in refrigerators, freezers, air conditioners and heating, ventilating and air conditioning units (HVAC). These gases, which have very low evaporation points, are condensed under pressure to chill the air. 
Best Answer: Chlorofluro carbons are very stable. They are used as the propellant in inhalers. They do not interact with our body. They are a problem for the ozone layer. The gases in refrigerators and air conditioners needs to be recycled properly. It is now being replaced with a less harmful gas to the ozone. If you were to breath a lot of cfcs and it displaced all the oxygen from the room then you could suffocate, but that can happen with any gas in large enough quantities (well apart from oxygen). It is the stability of cfcs which helps make them bad for ozone.