The large intestine is the final section of the gastrointestinal tract that performs the vital task of absorbing water and vitamins while converting digested food into feces. Although shorter than the small intestine in length, the large intestine is considerably thicker in diameter, thus giving it its name. The large intestine performs the vital functions of converting food into feces, absorbing essential vitamins produced by gut bacteria, and reclaiming water from feces. A slurry of digested food, known as chyme, enters the large intestine from the small intestine via the ileocecal sphincter.
The large intestine (or large bowel) is the part of the digestive system where waste products from the food you eat are collected and processed into faeces. The large intestine is about 1.5 m long and consists of the caecum, appendix, colon and rectum-which are distributed in the abdominal cavity. The large intestine performs the following functions:
Your large intestine is the final part of your digestive tract. Undigested food enters your large intestine from your small intestine. It then reabsorbs water that is used in digestion and eliminates undigested food and fibre. This causes food waste products to harden and form faeces, which are then excreted. 
Confidence votes 129. The large intestine is about 1.5 m long and consists of the caecum, appendix, colon and rectum-which are distributed in the abdominal cavity. The large intestine is the part of the digestive system where waste products from the food you eat are collected and processed into feces. A major function of the large intestine is to recover water used in processing the food, reducing the waste to a drier form. It also absorbs certain vitamins, some of which are released by the activity of helpful bacteria.
Small Intestine. The small intestine is a long, highly convoluted tube in the digestive system that absorbs about 90% of the nutrients from the food we eat. It is given the name “small intestine” because it is only 1 inch in diameter, making it less than half the diameter of the large intestine. 
The large intestine is about 5 feet (1.5 m) in length and 2.5 inches (6-7 cm) in diameter in the living body, but becomes much larger postmortem as the smooth muscle tissue of the intestinal wall relaxes. The large intestine performs the vital functions of converting food into feces, absorbing essential vitamins produced by gut bacteria, and reclaiming water from feces. A slurry of digested food, known as chyme, enters the large intestine from the small intestine via the ileocecal sphincter.
The small intestine is a tubular structure within the abdominal cavity that carries the food in continuation with the stomach up to the colon from where the large intestine carries it to the rectum and out of the body via the anus. The main function of this organ is to aid in digestion. 
Structure of the large intestine. The large intestine is made up of the colon and the rectum. The colon is a tubular structure that is around 1.5 m, about one quarter of the length of the small bowel. Its largest diameter is at the cecum (7.5 cm) and narrowest in the sigmoid (2.5 cm). The large intestine comprises of the second part of the alimentary canal. The large intestine consists of the cecum and colon. It begins at the right iliac region of the pelvis (the region just at or below the right waist) where is continues from the small intestine and continues up the abdomen.
The large intestine, also called the colon or the large bowel, is the last part of the digestive system in vertebrates. Water is absorbed here and the remaining waste material is stored as feces before being removed by defecation. 
The small intestine is divided into the duodenum, jejunum, and ileum. The small intestine follows the general structure of the digestive tract in that the wall has a mucosa with simple columnar epithelium, submucosa, smooth muscle with inner circular and outer longitudinal layers, and serosa. The large intestine consists of the colon, rectum, and anal canal. The wall of the large intestine has the same types of tissue that are found in other parts of the digestive tract but there are some distinguishing characteristics. The mucosa has a large number of goblet cells but does not have any villi.