It accounts for about 90 percent of children with nephrotic syndrome. Idiopathic means that a disease occurs with no known cause. The most common type of idiopathic nephrotic syndrome is called minimal-change nephrotic syndrome (MCNS). Idiopathic nephrotic syndrome is more common in boys than girls. With MCNS, the child usually has relapses of the illness, but the disease can usually be managed and prognosis is good. 
Nephrotic syndrome may be caused by primary (idiopathic) renal disease or by a variety of secondary causes. Patients present with marked edema, proteinuria, hypoalbuminemia, and often hyperlipidemia. 
The type of nephrotic syndrome that is most common in children is called idiopathic nephrotic syndrome. It accounts for about 90 percent of children with nephrotic syndrome. Idiopathic means that a disease occurs with no known cause. The most common type of idiopathic nephrotic syndrome is called minimal-change nephrotic syndrome (MCNS). Idiopathic nephrotic syndrome is more common in boys than girls. With MCNS, the child usually has relapses of the illness, but the disease can usually be managed and prognosis is good. Nephrotic syndrome is characterized by the following symptoms that result from changes that occur to the small, functional structures in the kidneys, such as: Very high levels of protein in the urine. Low levels of protein in the blood due to its loss in the urine.
1 Minimal change disease. 2  The most common cause of nephrotic syndrome in children, this disorder results in abnormal kidney function, but when the kidney tissue is examined under a microscope, it appears normal or nearly normal. 3  The cause of the abnormal function typically can't be determined. 1 The most common cause of nephrotic syndrome in children, this disorder results in abnormal kidney function, but when the kidney tissue is examined under a microscope, it appears normal or nearly normal. 2  The cause of the abnormal function typically can't be determined. 3  Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis.
Weight gain from excess fluid. The type of nephrotic syndrome that is most common in children is called idiopathic nephrotic syndrome. It accounts for about 90 percent of children with nephrotic syndrome. Idiopathic means that a disease occurs with no known cause. The most common type of idiopathic nephrotic syndrome is called minimal-change nephrotic syndrome (MCNS). Idiopathic nephrotic syndrome is more common in boys than girls. With MCNS, the child usually has relapses of the illness, but the disease can usually be managed and prognosis is good. 
The type of nephrotic syndrome that is most common in children is called idiopathic nephrotic syndrome. It accounts for about 90% of children with nephrotic syndrome. Idiopathic means that a disease occurs with no known cause. The most common type is called minimal-change nephrotic syndrome (MCNS). Idiopathic nephrotic syndrome is more common in boys than girls. With MCNS, the child usually has relapses of the illness, but the disease can usually be managed and the outlook is good.
The nephrotic syndrome is defined by edema, hypoalbuminemia, proteinuria, and hyperlipemia with elevated cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations in serum or plasma. It may be primary or secondary to systemic disorders. 
As a result, fluid builds up in the tissues and causes swelling. Nephrotic syndrome is often caused by: 1  A type of kidney disease called minimal change disease (or nil disease). 2  This is the main cause of nephrotic syndrome in children. 3  Doctors don't know what causes minimal change disease. 4  Diabetes. 5  This is the most common cause of nephrotic syndrome in adults. 
Nephrotic syndrome is a nonspecific kidney disorder characterized by three signs of disease: large proteinuria, hypoalbuminemia and edema. Essentially, loss of protein through the kidneys (proteinuria) leads to low protein levels in the blood (hypoalbuminemia), which causes water to be drawn into soft tissues (edema). Nephrotic syndrome is characterized by large proteinuria 2), hypoalbuminemia hyperlipidaemia, and edema (which is generalized and also known as anasarca or dropsy) that begins in the face. Lipiduria (lipids in urine) can also occur, but is not essential for the diagnosis of nephrotic syndrome.