You can get Social Security retirement benefits and work at the same time. However, if you are younger than full retirement age and make more than the yearly earnings limit, we will reduce your benefit. Starting with the month you reach full retirement age, we will not reduce your benefits no matter how much you earn. Starting with the month you reach full retirement age, you can get your benefits with no limit on your earnings. The earnings limits amounts for 2016 are not yet available. We will post the 2016 information on our website when we receive it.
In this sense, Social Security disability insurance (SSDI) can be thought of as a retirement benefit for those who are forced to retire early. If you do collect SSDI disability benefits, they will be converted to retirement benefits when you reach full retirement age. You can't receive Social Security retirement benefits and disability benefits at the same time (with one small exception, which we'll discuss below).
7 benefits. The disability benefit amount is the same as a full, unreduced retirement benefit. If you’re getting Social Security disability benefits when you reach full retirement age, we convert those benefits to retirement benefits. For more information, read Disability Benefits (Publication No. 05-10029). If you’re full retirement age, however, you can apply for retirement benefits and then request to have payments suspended. That way, your spouse can receive a spouse’s benefit and you can earn delayed retirement credits until age 70. For a married couple, only one person can apply for “spouse’s only” benefits.
You will not be able to collect the full amount of your Social Security as listed on your statement. The Social Security calculator will take into consideration the amount of your TRS pension and then decrease the amount of your Social Security by a factor. You can find the calculator for this here. 
If you will reach full retirement age in 2015, the limit on your earnings for the months before full retirement age is $41,880. Starting with the month you reach full retirement age, you can get your benefits with no limit on your earnings. The earnings limits amounts for 2016 are not yet available. We will post the 2016 information on our website when we receive it.
When you retire, you'll get your public pension, but don't count on getting your full Social Security benefit. Under federal law, any Social Security benefits you earned will be reduced if you were a federal, state or local government employee who earned a pension on wages that were not covered by Social Security. Reductions also apply to Social Security spousal or survivor benefits that are claimed by government pensioners. The windfall provision does not apply to government pensioners who paid into the Social Security system for 30 years or longer. Nor does it apply to workers who receive a military pension or a private pension. You can use a WEP calculator at www.socialsecurity.gov to figure your benefit.
However, if your spouse is eligible for a Social Security pension, you might be eligible for a spousal or widow/er benefit. Typically, spousal benefits are equal to 37 percent to 50 percent of the spouse’s Social Security benefit and are paid to the dependent spouse while the other spouse is still living. To be eligible for a Social Security pension benefit, you must be at least 62 years old and have a minimum of 40 Social Security credits. A credit is equal to a designated amount of earnings that increases from year to year based on national earnings averages.
You may be able to settle into retirement with no pension reductions -- depending on whom you worked for. If you worked only for private employers, you have no worries. You will get your full pension and Social Security benefits. 
But if the government pension offset applies, your Social Security spousal or survivor benefit will be reduced by two-thirds of your government pension. Let's look at Patricia Kohlen, the retired schoolteacher. The earliest a survivor can apply for a benefit is age 60, six years before full retirement. The windfall provision does not apply to government pensioners who paid into the Social Security system for 30 years or longer. Nor does it apply to workers who receive a military pension or a private pension. You can use a WEP calculator at www.socialsecurity.gov to figure your benefit.
Find out if you can collect Social Security benefits along with your pension. By the Editors of Kiplinger’s Personal Finance Magazine. My wife is a retired California teacher receiving a State Teachers’ Retirement System (STRS) pension. She has not paid into Social Security. I am eligible to collect Social Security. 