On October 21, 2014, it was announced that ABC bought the original concept for a drama series about a gutsy female forensic accountant, based on a treatment written by novelist Kate Atkinson. The script was written by Jennifer Schuur. The Catch is produced by Shonda Rhimes, Betsy Beers, Julie Anne Robinson and Schuur. ABC ordered the pilot on January 26, 2015 for 2015–16 television season. The pilot episode was filmed in Austin, Texas, and was directed by Julie Anne Robinson. On May 7, 2015, ABC picked up the pilot to series. The Catch is an upcoming American thriller television series that set to air on ABC. It is about Alice Vaughan (Mireille Enos), a fraud investigator who is poised to be the victim of a fraud by her fiance. fiancé
There had been speculation about differences in opinions on the direction of the show as early as the pilot stage, with the series landing a series order in large part based on the formidable track record of Shonda Rhimes and Betsy Beers’ Shondaland, the company behind ABC’s hot Thursday drama lineup. The series made a major casting change after the upfronts, with Krause replacing original male lead Damon Dayoub. Additionally, the show recast the role of the con man’s wife/partner in crime, with Sonya Walger replacing Bethany Joy Lenz.
The creator and co-showrunners of ABC ’s “ The Catch ” are exiting the show amid creative differences with ABC and Shondaland on the direction of the midseason drama. Execs figure that making a change before launch is easier than when a show is already up and running. “Catch” has yet to begin filming as it is slated to alternate with Shondaland’s “How to Get Away With Murder” and “Scandal” in the plum Thursday 10 p.m. slot.
From Shondaland’s Shonda Rhimes and Betsy Beers, this thriller centers on the strong, successful Alice Martin. She’s a fraud investigator who’s about to be the victim of fraud by her fiance. fiancé about the show. From Shondaland’s Shonda Rhimes and Betsy Beers, this thriller centers on the strong, successful Alice Martin. She’s a fraud investigator who’s about to be the victim of fraud by her fiance. Fiancé between her, cases she is determined to find him before it ruins her. career
There is a behind-the-scenes shakeup on ABC ’s midseason drama series The Catch. Executive producer/co-showrunner Jennifer Schuur, who created the series for ABC Studios and Shondaland, and Josh Reims, who joined after the pilot as executive producer/co-showrunner, have left over creative differences. The series made a major casting change after the upfronts, with Krause replacing original male lead Damon Dayoub. Additionally, the show recast the role of the con man’s wife/partner in crime, with Sonya Walger replacing Bethany Joy Lenz.
Yes, we will watch Shonda Rhimes' new show, The Catch. | Rich Fury/Invision/AP. Yes, we will watch Shonda Rhimes' new show, The Catch. | Rich Fury/Invision/AP. SO thrilled about Seasons 12 (#GreysAnatomy), 5 (#Scandal), 2 (#HTGAWM) plus the new show!— shonda rhimes (@shondarhimes) May 8, 2015. ABC has given Shonda Rhimes yet another vote of confidence by picking up her new show, The Catch, for the 2015-2016 season. 
Jennifer Schuur, who created “The Catch,” and Josh Reims, who was to serve as exec producer and co-showrunner alongside Schuur, have exited the ABC Studios midseason drama. Sources said producers are eyeing “Scandal” alum Allan Heinberg to take the reins as showrunner and exec producer. ABC declined comment. Execs figure that making a change before launch is easier than when a show is already up and running. “Catch” has yet to begin filming as it is slated to alternate with Shondaland’s “How to Get Away With Murder” and “Scandal” in the plum Thursday 10 p.m. slot.
In June 2015, it was announced The Catch will take over How to Get Away With Murder ' s Thursday 10 ET/9 CT slot and form part of Shondaland's mid-season #TGIT block. On August 18, 2015, it was announced that the series creator Jennifer Schuur exited the series as showrunner due to creative differences. The Catch is an upcoming American thriller television series that set to air on ABC. It is about Alice Vaughan (Mireille Enos), a fraud investigator who is poised to be the victim of a fraud by her fiance. fiancé