Damage is one of the primary factors in reducing the lifespan of a smartphone. Smartphones are complex and fragile pieces of equipment, and even a relatively light impact can have grave consequences for their internal workings. 
Re: Average battery life. I normally get 8 to 11 hours with gps on and 10 to 13 hours with off, I know it sounds to good to believe but I first discharged the battery by allowing it to cut itself off through lack of power, after that I started to get this incredible battery usage. Re: Average battery life. I typically get 16 hours or so on my phone with moderate use. Wifi on, GPS on, 4G off, 3G on. I disable notifications for all apps except gmail and don't use google now.
Shop ▾. While the average price for an Android smartphone continues to plummet every year, Apple is still refusing to participate in the mid-range battle. Based on data gathered by Statista, the average Android phone was priced at just $276 in 2013, down from $441 in 2010. The average iPhone, on the other hand, still costs $650, a measly $52 drop in the same timespan. This explains why Apple’s profit margins remain astronomically high even while its market share sinks.
Not long ago, smart device manufacturer HTC estimated the average shelf life of a smartphone to be three years. Now, they figure it’s only six to nine months. I’ve had a jar of jelly in my refrigerator for longer than that. 
Speaking of demographics, most of the Android users were between 18 to 24 years of age while 29% of the iPhone users are more likely to be over 35 years. iPhone users represent the richer spectrum of the society with 67% users having an annual household income of $200K or more. 
So, it looks like the average life of an Android phone at that point was less than one year (i.e. more phones were sold in the year than were in use at the end of it), compared to a two year average in the phone industry. Next, in June 2013 there were 538m MAUs (+315m), and 900m cumulative activations by May. So, a bit over 500m activations in the year, and roughly a 1 year life span. The first Android phone, the HTC G1, went on sale at the end of 2008, two and a half years earlier, but sales didn't really pick up until 2010: in February Google announced a 60k daily activation rate, which equates to 22m a year, and if you model it out it's very clear almost all the sales were after that.
Hence, half of the Android phones activated in the 2.5 years or so after Android went on sale remained active at the end of that period, but arguably, half of those sold in the last 18 months (i.e. from the beginning of 2010). Now, let's look at the next year. The first Android phone, the HTC G1, went on sale at the end of 2008, two and a half years earlier, but sales didn't really pick up until 2010: in February Google announced a 60k daily activation rate, which equates to 22m a year, and if you model it out it's very clear almost all the sales were after that.
The study combines primary, secondary and field research in Delhi, Mumbai and Pune. The average lifespan of a mobile phone in India is significantly longer: six to eight years, compared with 22 months in Western countries. India has a reputation for a well-established grey market in second-hand phones and electronic waste. The average life of a mobile device in India is eight years, perhaps the longest compared with anywhere in the world. Osama Manzar. Share. First Published: Mon, Oct 07 2013. 12 23 AM IST. Photo: Mint
Re: Average battery life. Well I've read that some people get 15 to 20 hours. So I'm like how in the world can you get that out of this phone. Some have said that they get with moderate use. I guess they are full of it lol. I would love to get that out of a smart phone. Re: Average battery life. I typically get 16 hours or so on my phone with moderate use. Wifi on, GPS on, 4G off, 3G on. I disable notifications for all apps except gmail and don't use google now.