Edamame Nutrition Facts. Edamame Nutrition. Edamame are edible, green, immature soybeans. They're one of my favorite foods to recommend eating. That's because they're a good source of complete protein, high in fiber, a source of essential omega 3 fat, and rich in calcium, iron, zinc and B vitamins. Plus they taste good! You can buy green soybeans three ways: 1  out of the pod (shelled). 2  in the pod (unshelled). 3  dry roasted
Basic Nutritional Information. Each cup of edamame beans contains 189 calories, which come from a combination of proteins, carbohydrates and fats. The 8 grams of fat in a serving of edamame provide energy, while its 17 grams of protein help you maintain your immune system and support lean muscle tissue. Each serving of edamame also contains 15 grams of carbohydrates. A cup of edamame provides 482 micrograms of folate -- all the folate you need in a day -- as well as 9.5 milligrams of vitamin C, which is 11 percent of the recommended daily vitamin C intake for men and 13 percent for women. Edamame's mild flavor works well in a variety of dishes.
The beans are tender, soft, high in nutritional value, and they have a delicate flavor which some consumers find quite enjoyable. As a general rule, a field of soybeans will be used to produce either shell beans or edamame, but not both. The beans may be shelled and added to salads, sandwiches, and soups as well. The cooked edamame can be eaten hot or cold, and some consumers pack it into lunches as an easily consumed snack food. The fresh soybeans may also be seasoned with salt, soy sauce, and other ingredients.
These are some of the main edamame health benefits. Edamame is a healthy and delicious food that can be enjoyed in various ways. For example, edamame can be boiled, steamed, roasted or added to soups. You can also add steamed edamame to vegetable salads, or just serve it with spicy sauces. To sum up, you can incorporate this food in several ways in your diet to derive its numerous health benefits. The beans may be shelled and added to salads, sandwiches, and soups as well. The cooked edamame can be eaten hot or cold, and some consumers pack it into lunches as an easily consumed snack food. The fresh soybeans may also be seasoned with salt, soy sauce, and other ingredients.
Edamame (枝豆) /ˌɛdəˈmɑːmeɪ/ or edamame bean is a preparation of immature soybeans in the pod, found in the cuisine of China, Japan, Korea and Hawaii. The pods are boiled or steamed and served with salt. In Japan, it is usually blanched in 4% salt water and not served with salt. Outside East Asia, the dish is most often found in Japanese restaurants, some Chinese restaurants, and health food restaurants.
100 grams of frozen, unprepared Edamame contain 10.25 grams protein, 110 calories and 4.8 grams dietary fiber. 
The balance of fatty acids in 100 grams of edamame is 361 mg of omega-3 fatty acids to 1794 mg of omega-6 fatty acids. As a significant source of plant protein, edamame beans are under research to establish whether a relationship exists for soy consumption with reduction of disease risk. The pods are boiled or steamed and served with salt. In Japan, it is usually blanched in 4% salt water and not served with salt. Outside East Asia, the dish is most often found in Japanese restaurants, some Chinese restaurants, and health food restaurants.
A Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics answered. Edamame is fresh soybeans that have been harvested before the seed has hardened. In addition to soy's vitamins, minerals, potassium and fiber, it's the only food with a plant protein equal in protein quality to that of meat and eggs. A Amy Jamieson-Petonic, Nutrition & Dietetics, answered on behalf of Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. Edename is a shelled soybean that has a number of health benefits. When substituted for animal products, soy can help reduce heart disease and may positively impact cancer.
Edamame, or soybeans, are nutrient dense. Edamame, or soybeans, have been popular in China and Japan for thousands of years and are now available in most grocery stores throughout the United States. They’re low in fat and calories and high in protein, fiber and almost every other essential vitamin and mineral. While soybeans have great health benefits, they also contain active ingredients similar to estrogen. If you have hormone-sensitive health concerns, talk to your health care provider before eating edamame.