Platelets are the smallest of the three major types of blood cells. 1  are only about 20% of the diameter of red blood cells. 2  The normal platelet count is 150,000-350,000 per microliter of blood, but since platelets are so small, they make up just a tiny fraction of the blood volume. Platelets are the smallest of the three major types of blood cells. 1  are only about 20% of the diameter of red blood cells. 2  Red. 3  are the most numerous blood cell, about 5,000,000 per microliter. 4  are the largest of the blood cells but also the fewest.
functions. when a foreign organism invades the body, the overall number of white blood cell increases, and depending upon the nature of the infectious agent, the relative percentage of types changes-we get this information from total white blood cell count and differential count.
White blood cells protect the body from infection. They are much fewer in number than red blood cells, accounting for about 1 percent of your blood. The most common type of white blood cell is the neutrophil, which is the immediate response cell and accounts for 55 to 70 percent of the total white blood cell count. The blood that runs through the veins, arteries, and capillaries is known as whole blood, a mixture of about 55 percent plasma and 45 percent blood cells. About 7 to 8 percent of your total body weight is blood. An average-sized man has about 12 pints of blood in his body, and an average-sized woman has about 9 pints.
The primary function of red blood cells is to transport oxygen to body cells and deliver carbon dioxide to the lungs. A red blood cell has what is known as a biconcave shape. Both sides of the cell's surface curve inward like the interior of a sphere. This shape aids in a red blood cell's ability to maneuver through tiny blood vessels to deliver oxygen to organs and tissues. Red blood cells are also important in determining human blood type. Blood type is determined by the presence or absence of certain identifiers on the surface of red blood cells. These identifiers, also called antigens, help the body's immune system to recognize it's own red blood cell ty
It is generally accepted that a blood-forming cell in the bone marrow—which is called a hematopoietic stem cell —cannot give rise to the cells of a very different tissue, such as nerve cells in the brain. Stem cells differ from other kinds of cells in the body. All stem cells—regardless of their source—have three general properties: they are capable of dividing and renewing themselves for long periods; they are unspecialized; and they can give rise to specialized cell types.
Red blood is red because the color of oxyhemoglobin is red because there is iron in oxyhemoglobin, causing that blood red color. Red blood cells are red because the iron in the heme group of the four hemoglobin proteins react with oxygen (think what color rust is) to produce a red color. + 117 others found this useful.
Population and size.   The red blood cells are used to carry oxygen to all parts of the body.   So, the size of the blood cells and the number or population of the … blood cells help carry the MOST oxygen possible to all parts of the body. Red blood cells are red because the iron in the heme group of the four hemoglobin proteins react with oxygen (think what color rust is) to produce a red color. + 117 others found this useful. Lynn Kinsey.
The red blood cells are used to carry oxygen to all parts of the body.   So, the size of the blood cells and the number or population of the … blood cells help carry the MOST oxygen possible to all parts of the body. Red blood cells are red because the iron in the heme group of the four hemoglobin proteins react with oxygen (think what color rust is) to produce a red color. + 117 others found this useful.
1 Erythrocytes, or red blood cells, are by far the predominant cell type in the blood smear. 2  They are anucleate, non-granulated, eosinophilic cells that are uniform in shape (biconcave discs) and size (7.2 microns). 3  Red blood cells have a central concavity that appears pale under the light microscope. 