With his many talents in western and ethnic music, he is now a regular member of a large number of successful musical groups in Israel and has participated in many festivals in Israel and around the world. About the Instruments The Israeli Ethnic Ensemble plays a variety of instruments from all over the world. The ensemble’s unique performances represent the diverse and colorful cultural characters of Israeli music – the Sephardic traditional music, Mediterranean influences, the music of Yemenite Jews – and some original music as well. The ensemble was established in 2004 by leading figures in the vibrant Israeli music scene.
We are in the midst of creating a culture, says Nahum Heyman, one of Israel's leading music composers and music historians. Jewish immigrants from Europe, Asia, the Middle East and elsewhere brought with them their musical traditions, melding and molding them into a new Israeli sound. For almost 150 years, musicians have sought original stylistic elements that would define the emerging national spirit. In addition to creating an Israeli style and sound, Israel's musicians have made significant contributions to classical, jazz, pop rock and other international music genres.
Gilad Ephrat (Double Bass) Gilad Ephrat was born in Sweden but his family immigrated to Israel when he was still very young. After serving in the Israeli Defense Force as a bassist in the air force orchestra, Gilad completed his music studies at the Rimon School of Jazz and Contemporary Music. The ensemble’s unique performances represent the diverse and colorful cultural characters of Israeli music – the Sephardic traditional music, Mediterranean influences, the music of Yemenite Jews – and some original music as well. The ensemble was established in 2004 by leading figures in the vibrant Israeli music scene.
Musical Instruments in Biblical Israel There is a sense in which the Bible is part of every person's heritage. The Bible contains deep insights into the human condition and moral guidance which have stood the test of time. It is also replete with songs which were always accompanied by musical instruments. However, in spite of their frequent mention in the Bible, the instruments were hardly ever described. by Norman A. Rubin For the choir director; on the Gittith.
Jupiterimages/liquidlibrary/Getty Images. Original Jewish music was often performed with singing and dancing, and most songs used various musical instruments. As early as the establishment of the Hebrew nation, musicians used instruments for religious worship, entertainment and festivities. Percussion, string and wind instruments were all used
The joyful music of the kinnōr was heard in the temple (1 Chronicles 15:16; 2 Chronicles 5:12), as well as during festivities and banquets (Isaiah 5:12). David used this instrument to calm Saul's spirit (1 Samuel 16:23). It was played by itself (1 Samuel 16:16) or with other musical instruments (1 Samuel 10:5). 
Music in Israel is an integral part of national identity. Beginning in the days of the pioneers, Hebrew songs and public singalongs (Shira beTsibur) were encouraged and supported by the establishment. For almost 150 years, musicians have sought original stylistic elements that would define the emerging national spirit. In addition to creating an Israeli style and sound, Israel's musicians have made significant contributions to classical, jazz, pop rock and other international music genres.
Wind Instruments. The shofar also has a shrill sound and was used to commence feasts and other celebrations. It was often made from the horn of the ram and is still often played during Yom Kippur, a Jewish holiday. Among other wind instruments are trumpets, flutes and cornets. Original Jewish music was often performed with singing and dancing, and most songs used various musical instruments. As early as the establishment of the Hebrew nation, musicians used instruments for religious worship, entertainment and festivities. Percussion, string and wind instruments were all used
The music of Israel is a combination of Jewish and non-Jewish music traditions that have come together over the course of a century to create a distinctive musical culture. For almost 150 years, musicians have sought original stylistic elements that would define the emerging national spirit. In addition to creating an Israeli style and sound, Israel's musicians have made significant contributions to classical, jazz, pop rock and other international music genres.