Diamond. Diamond is the only mineral on this list. Granite is an intrusive igneous rock, meaning that it formed beneath the surface of the earth. Marble is a metamorphic roc … k, which means that it formed from another type of rock, or parent rock, through subjection to intense heat and/or pressure.
1) Limestone and Marble begin as the same material. Marble is simply changed limestone, or to use the technical term, metamorphic limestone. Limestone is the result of millions of years of sea shells and bones of sea creatures settling as sediment on an ocean floor (hence it is called a sedimentary stone).
5.Limestone is more porous than marble while marble is harder than limestone. 6.Limestone has gray, white, or black colors while marble, although most commonly white in color, has more diverse colors such as green and light-colored marble.
Marble, on the other hand, is a rock formed when limestone recrystallizes into marble during the mountain-building process. When rocks are formed, limestone is heated and squeezed which causes the grains to recrystallize. It is metamorphic and is usually used as building material and in sculptures.
Limestone is softer than marble because of how they are formed inside. Marble consists of tightly interlocked crystals, which makes it stronger than limestone. Limestone consi … sts of small fossil fragments and smaller crystals, which makes it weaker than marble.
Granite, limestone and marble are used as construction materials. Cement, which is made from limestone, is used to make concrete. But reinforced concrete has better properties for construction work than concrete alone.
Additionally, marble and limestone can be scratched more easily than harder stones such as granite. Marble is, however, sometimes used in the kitchen as a pastry slab; its perfectly smooth, cool surface is ideal for rolling out dough and piecrusts.
1.Limestone is a type of rock which is formed when mud, sand, and shells are deposited in oceans and lakes while marble is a type of rock which is formed by the recrystallization of limestone during the mountain-building process. 2.Both come in many colors and are used as building materials and other industrial uses.