The cytoplasm is the region that is inclosed within the cell membrane. The cytoplasm contains enzymes that control chemical reactions inside cells. It also is the site where most of the cell's cellular activities take place such as the metabolic pathways. It also makes helps the animal by making its eyes bluer at night.
The cytoplasm is the cytosol and all the organelles (minus the nucleus) in the cell. Its main function is suspension of the organelles, their nutrients, and products. The cyt … oplasm function in a plant cell is almost similar to the cytoplasm function in an animal cell.
Basically cytoplasm is the substance that fills the cell. It is a jelly-like substance and it is made up of eighty percent water and is usually clear and colorless.Cytoplasm is a thick gel-like substance. It liq ue f ies when it is agitated or stirred.
Definition: The cytoplasm consists of all of the contents outside of the nucleus and enclosed within the cell membrane of a cell. This includes the cytosol and in euckaryotic cells, organelles such as mitochondria and ribosomes.
It is mainly composed of water, salts, and proteins. In eukaryotic cells, the cytoplasm includes all of the material inside the cell and outside of the nucleus. All of the organelles in eukaryotic cells, such as the nucleus, endoplasmic reticulum, and mitochondria, are located in the cytoplasm. The portion of the cytoplasm that is not contained in the organelles is called the cytosol. Although cytoplasm may appear to have no form or structure, it is actually highly organized.
The cytoplasm of the animal cell is a gel-like material made of water. It fills the cells and contains proteins and important molecules that are necessary for the cell. The cytoplasm is made of proteins, carbohydrates, salts, sugars, amino acids and nucleotides. Cytoplasm holds all the cellular organelles.
The cytoplasm is the region that is inclosed within the cell membrane. The cytoplasm contains enzymes that control chemical reactions inside cells. It also is the site where m … ost of the cell's cellular activities take place such as the metabolic pathways.