Toning is an important part of your day to day beauty care regime .After cleansing your face properly, it is of utmost importance to tone your face to absorb the excess oil from the surface of your skin and remove the leftover traces of dirt and cleansers, settled on the face.all these can be heavy on your pocket.
It is recommended to include toner in your skin care regime. However, you should choose right toner for your skin type in order to see results and have a smooth, clean, and nourished skin. Toner is beneficial for your skin and it should not be skipped.
You might throw on some lotion if your face is really dry. But that's just not enough. Maybe your skin still feels oily after you wash it, or you wish your skin and pores could be a little tighter. Adding a skin toner to your daily regimen might be the perfect solution.
With all these choices, you might be asking yourself, “What does toner do for your skin type, and can it help me improve my skin’s texture?” In order to answer that, you must first understand your own skin type in order to choose a toner that will be a beneficial addition to your daily skin care regimen.
In case you have not used toner before you should definitely include it in your skin care regime. Moreover, here is why: 1  It shrinks the pores on your face – enlarged pores are unappealing, but regular usage of toner removes excess oil from your skin, and the pores will appear smaller.
It is mostly used for cleaning sensitive skin on person’s face. It is usually applied with the help of a cotton pad, but some toners can be sprayed onto your face or applied in a form of facial mask. Toner should be included into regular skin care regime in order to have a healthy and protected skin, especially face.
Dos and Don’t’s for Toner. 1  DO use toner regularly in order to clean your face. 2  DON’T use expired toners. 3  DON’T apply creamy toner with your fingers. 4  DON’T apply toner after makeup. 5  DO apply astringent on oily areas or blemishes only. 6  DO apply toner after cleanser in order to hydrate your skin and get a smooth texture.
6. A few minutes after cleansing, tone your face with toner and a cotton pad. Toner is used to restore your skin's natural pH levels which were probably altered during cleansing. By restoring your skin to its natural pH, you also make it more resistant against bacteria and micro-organisms.
1 People with normal skin should moisturize, cleanse, use a spot treatment, and maybe a night solution. 2  Dry Skin-If your skin feels very tight and is noticeably flaky in areas, then you have dry skin. 3  Dry skin can be caused by lack of hydration or malnutrition.