Original vs. Toluene Free. The Briwax Original formula contains the solvent Toluene and the Toluene Free formula contains the solvents Xylene and Naphtha. Solvents are necessary in the formulation of Briwax because without them Briwax would just be a hard chunk of wax, almost unusable. Toluene has a high aroma factor, a strong smell, and some people love it and some hate it. The Toluene Free formula has a much lower aroma; it smells more like a dry cleaning solvent. Briwax Original uses toluene mainly because it dissolves the beeswax 100%. So even if Briwax is liquid it will still work as intended. Toluene is also an excellent grease and grime cleaner. As Briwax is used on old antique pieces, the solvent is really at work cleaning off the old oxidized surface.
Waxes from Briwax-Online. Briwax is the premier multipurpose wax. Although originally developed for the artisan cabinet maker, it quickly became apparent that the untrained or amateur wood worker could obtain near professional results with this remarkably easy-to-use product. Briwax Liming Wax. Two hundred years ago this liming method was used to lighten the dark wood panels in various mansions of the day. Liming wax is the predecessor of the pickling method used today.
Briwax uses a much hotter solvent, toluene, that allows it to emulsify more durable waxes like carnauba to give better protection to your finished surfaces. The use of a hotter solvent results in the wax setting much more quickly, allowing a higher luster finish faster. Overview. BRIWAX is a solvent-based blend of beeswax and carnauba wax, two of of the finest wood-finishing waxes known to humankind. Most of the waxes found on the shelves today contain the solvents turpentine or mineral spirits
Toluene has a chemical formula of C7H8. Toluene is used as a solvent and to make aviation gasoline, spray and wall paints, paint thinner, medicine, dyes, explosives, detergents, fingernail polish, spot removers, lacquers, adhesives, rubber, and antifreeze. It is also used in some printing and leather tanning processes. Toluene is a volatile organic compound (VOC). You can be exposed to toluene by breathing automobile exhaust, pumping gasoline, consuming contaminated food or water, or using other products that contain toluene, such as kerosene, heating oil, paints, and lacquers.
1 - 800 - B R I W A X-X. BRIWAX is the premier multipurpose wax. Although originally developed for the artisan cabinet maker, it quickly became apparent that the untrained or amateur wood worker could obtain near professional results with this remarkably easy-to-use product. In the 1990's regulatory agencies throughout the USA have started to highlight certain groups of chemicals and the extra care needed when using them. Toluene is member of these groups, so at Henry Flack, we've answered the call and developed a toluene-free formula, using the identical beeswax/carnauba wax blend, . .
BRIWAX is a solvent based blend of beeswax and carnauba wax, two of of the finest wood finishing waxes known to man. Most of the waxes found on the shelves today contain the solvents turpentine or mineral spirits. In the 1990's regulatory agencies throughout the USA have started to highlight certain groups of chemicals and the extra care needed when using them. Toluene is member of these groups, so at Henry Flack, we've answered the call and developed a toluene-free formula, using the identical beeswax/carnauba wax blend, . .
Classic Wax is toluene-free, safe and easy to use, giving an excellent shine. It is specially formulated to achieve a professional finish to wood with a minimum amount of effort. Some paste waxes on the market today use solvents like toluene and xylene as the base. FLAG paints has answered the call and developed a toluene & xylene free formula using the finest wax blends. Except for a little extra drying time, the result is outstanding! NO PATINA LOSS...the trademark of quality paste waxes.
The Briwax toluene-free formula is a blend of Xylene and Naphtha. This formula will take the solvents longer to evaporate, approximately 15-20 minutes, and the aroma will decrease or not smell as much. Briwax Original uses toluene mainly because it dissolves the beeswax 100%. So even if Briwax is liquid it will still work as intended. Toluene is also an excellent grease and grime cleaner. As Briwax is used on old antique pieces, the solvent is really at work cleaning off the old oxidized surface.
The largest industrial use of toluene is in the production of benzene, a chemical used to make plastics and synthetic fibers. Toluene is also used to boost the octane of gasoline. Toluene is a volatile organic compound (VOC). You can be exposed to toluene by breathing automobile exhaust, pumping gasoline, consuming contaminated food or water, or using other products that contain toluene, such as kerosene, heating oil, paints, and lacquers.