And the gestation periods of chimpanzees (237 days), gorilla (257 days) and orangutan (260 days) indicate that the approximate nine-month gestation period predates the emergence of human beings as a species. Asian elephants have a gestation period of 645 days and African elephants 640 days. Dogs and other canines have a gestation period of about 60, which is also the period for cats. Even within the species of apes and monkeys gestation period seem to be a matter of size.
Elephants have one of the longest gestation period among mammals. They are pregnant for a period of around 22 months. After the 22 month gestation, they giver birth to a calf … that is approximately 250 pounds heavy and stands at around 2.5 feet tall. 1 person found this useful. For example Elephants have a gestation period of 22 months where as polar bears one of only 8 months.
Gestation is the period of time that a mammal carries her offspring, or babies, inside her body before giving birth. The length of gestation is different for each type of mammal. Larger animals usually have longer gestations than smaller animals. Human gestation, or pregnancy, lasts about nine months. An elephant's gestation lasts about 22 months.
Duration [edit]. For most species, the amount a fetus grows before birth determines the length of the gestation period. Smaller species normally have a shorter gestation period than larger animals. For example, a cat's gestation normally takes 58–65 days while an elephant's takes nearly 2 years (21 months). However, growth does not necessarily determine the length of gestation for all species, especially for those with a breeding season. 
Gestation Periods and Animal Scale. The gestation period of humans is 266 days, 8 days short of nine months. Many such biological characteristics have an explanation in terms evolutionary survival value. Even some seemingly cultural characteristics of human society have such a biological explanation. Asian elephants have a gestation period of 645 days and African elephants 640 days. Dogs and other canines have a gestation period of about 60, which is also the period for cats. Even within the species of apes and monkeys gestation period seem to be a matter of size.
Elephants have one of the longest gestation period among mammals. They are pregnant for a period of around 22 months. After the 22 month gestation, they giver birth to a calf … that is approximately 250 pounds heavy and stands at around 2.5 feet tall. 1 person found this useful. Answered. The gestation period of the animal is the time it takes between  conception and giving birth. The length of time this takes can have  great variety between the species but i … s usually associated with  the size of the animal.
Gestation Periods Chart. by Vaughn Aubuchon. Here is a pregnancy period comparison chart of human babys, selected pets and other mammals. The length of a human pregnancy is usually referred to as 9 months for a baby, which is not completely accurate. It's eight days less. The length of time in the womb for humans and other mammals varies considerably, based mostly upon size
The gestation periods of other animal reveals that the length of the gestation period is largely a matter of the animal specie's size. Asian elephants have a gestation period of 645 days and African elephants 640 days. Dogs and other canines have a gestation period of about 60, which is also the period for cats. Even within the species of apes and monkeys gestation period seem to be a matter of size.
Confidence votes 2. The gestation period for each animal is different. For example Elephants have a gestation period of 22 months where as polar bears one of only 8 months.