All about thermistors for measuring and controlling temperature, including how to use the thermistor that's in an automobile coolant temperature sensor. I talk about the difference between Positive Temperature Coefficient (PTC) thermistors and Negative Temperature Coefficient (NTC) thermistors. 
A thermistor is a thermal resistor-a resistor that changes its resistance with temperature. Technically, all resistors are thermistors-their resistance changes slightly with temperature-but the change is usually very very small and difficult to measure. There are two kinds of of thermistors, NTC (negative temperature coefficient) and PTC (positive temperature coefficient). In general, you will see NTC sensors used for temperature measurement.
NTC (negative temperature coefficient) thermistors change their effective resistance over temperature. The most common equation used to model this change is the Steinhart-Hart equation. It uses three coefficients to characterize the NTC material with great accuracy. 1 Use the thermistor and a reference resistor to make a voltage divider. 2  Take the middle of the voltage divider and feed it into an analog-to-digital converter. 3  Measure the ADC voltage in software. 4  Using your knowledge of the reference resistance, and the thermistor's R vs. T curve, convert from ADC counts to
There are two types of thermistors: Negative Temperature Coefficient (NTC) and Positive Temperature Coefficient (PTC). With an NTC thermistor, when the temperature increases, resistance decreases. Conversely, when temperature decreases, resistance increases. This type of thermistor is used the most. Thermistors, as part of a temperature control system, are the best way to measure and control heating and cooling of a Peltier device. Their ability to adjust in minute increments allows the greatest overall system stability.
Temperature Sensors. A thermistor, or thermally sensitive resistor, is a resistor which changes resistance in response to a change in temperature. There are two basic types of thermistors: NTC, or Negative Temperature Coefficient, and PTC, or Positive Temperature Coefficient. 
The NI-DAQmx driver scales the resistance of a thermistor to a temperature using the Steinhart-Hart thermistor third-order approximation: where T is the temperature in Kelvin, R is the measured resistance, and A, B, and C are constants provided by the thermistor manufacturer. Considerations. The easiest way to connect a thermistor to a measurement device is with a two-wire connection (see Figure 3). With this method, the two wires that provide the thermistor with its excitation source are also used to measure the voltage across the sensor.
Measure Temperature using Thermistor Thermistors are widely used because of their sensitivity, small size, ruggedness and low cost.Thermistors have an electrical resistance that varies non-linearly with temperature. 
Most thermistors have a negative temperature coefficient (NTC), their resistance decreases with increasing temperature. Thermistors are specified according to its nominal resistance at 25 o C and commonly available thermistors range from 250 ohms to 100 kohms. To measure temperature using the thermistor with the EMANT300 DAQ Training Kit, 1  Connect the thermistor to the Light Application Adaptor screw terminals labeled IDAC and AGND. 2  Connect a wire from IDAC to AIN3. 3  Connect a wire from AGND to AIN2.
Page 1 of 18 Using LabVIEW to Measure Temperature with a Thermistor C. Briscoe and W. Dufee, University of Minnesota November, 2009 For resources, see the LabVIEW Resources page on the UMN ME2011 course site. 