The renaissance theatre in England saw the coming of the Elizabethan drama. The renaissance theatres were those that were opened during the time between Reformation and the closing down of theatres. Queen Elizabeth ruled England from 1558 - 1603, hence the drama of this era came to be known as Elizabethan drama. 
English Renaissance theatre encompasses the period between 1562 (performance at the Inner Temple during the Christmas season of 1561 of Gorboduc, the first English play using blank verse) and 1642 (ban on theatrical plays enacted by the English Parliament). English Renaissance theatre, also known as early modern English theatre, or (commonly) as Elizabethan theatre, refers to the theatre of England between 1562 and 1642. This is the style of the plays of William Shakespeare, Christopher Marlowe and Ben Jonson
Theatrical Conditions in Elizabethan England. Shakespeare is the best known of all of the Elizabethan Playwrights. Other writers of the period include Thomas Kyd, Christopher Marlowe, Ben Jonson, John Fletcher, and John Webster. Plays were usually performed in outdoor theatres in the afternoon. The Elizabethan Age. The Elizabethan Age is remembered as the time of a great wave of English nationalism, as well as a period in which the arts flourished. The time of Shaksepeare was also the time of Elizabeth I, who is one of the more memorable monarchs.
The Renaissance in England coincided with the reign of Elizabeth I who was Queen of England and Ireland from 1558 until 1603, so it is often referred to as the Elizabethan period. The Elizabethan Age. The Elizabethan Age is remembered as the time of a great wave of English nationalism, as well as a period in which the arts flourished. The time of Shaksepeare was also the time of Elizabeth I, who is one of the more memorable monarchs.
The Elizabethan Age. Shakespeare lived during a remarkable period of English history, a time of relative political stability that followed and preceded eras of extensive upheaval. Elizabeth I became the Queen of England in 1558, six years before Shakespeare's birth. Religion in the Elizabethan Age. Religion was central to the society for which Shakespeare wrote. Queen Elizabeth made attendance at Church of England services mandatory, even though many church-goers had to travel long distances.
Marlowe, in addition to the widely-popular Shakespeare, was one of the most well-known playwrights of the Elizabethan era. A contemporary of Shakespeare's to the year (both writers were born in 1564), Marlowe is credited with writing one of the first English plays in blank verse, Tamburlaine. The reign of Queen Elizabeth lasted from 1558 until her death in 1603, during which time the arts in England thrived. Fine arts received support and encouragement from the Queen that was unparalleled by any other English monarch; and as a result, the authors and works of this time period came to be known as Elizabethan.
Shakespeare is the best known of all of the Elizabethan Playwrights. Other writers of the period include Thomas Kyd, Christopher Marlowe, Ben Jonson, John Fletcher, and John Webster. The Elizabethan Age. The Elizabethan Age is remembered as the time of a great wave of English nationalism, as well as a period in which the arts flourished. The time of Shaksepeare was also the time of Elizabeth I, who is one of the more memorable monarchs.
And indeed, writing for the theatre as a profession began before Shakespeare was established in London. The first comedy of the Elizabethan age is attributed to Ralph Roister Doister by Nicholas Udall in 1552 – this website determines it the first “regular” English comedy. 
The era called the Elizabethan England was a time of many changes and developments and was also considered as the Golden Age in English history. This era was led by Queen Elizabeth I, the sixth and last ruler of Tudor. Queen Elizabeth I was considered by many to be England’s best monarch. The term, “Elizabethan Era” refers to the English history of Queen Elizabeth I’s reign (1558–1603). Historians often depict it as the golden age in English history and it’s been widely romanticized in books, movies, plays, and TV series.