AP. FRESNO, Calif., April 30— Ken Curtis, a singer and actor who played the scruffy deputy Festus on the television series Gunsmoke, died in his sleep on Sunday at his home. He was 74 years old. His death was attributed to natural causes, said A. C. Lyle, a producer at Paramount Studios. 
Photo 1 of 20. See photos of Gunsmoke TV show cast, actors James Arness, Marshall Matt Dillion, Amanda Blake, Kitty Russell, Long Branch Saloon, Ken Curtis, Festus Haggen, Milburn Stone, Doc Adams, saloon, Dodge City, Percy Crump. Previous. 
Biography. Ken Curtis was the son of Las Animas Sheriff Dan Gates and his wife,Nelly. They lived on the second story of the jailhouse. Foreshadowing his role of Festus on Gunsmoke, Ken acted as deputy during his father's abscence. He attended college, where he studied medicine. However he gave… more.
The old Bent County jail in Las Animas in southeastern Colorado, where Ken Curtis lived as a boy. Ken Curtis (July 2, 1916 – April 28, 1991) was an American singer and actor best known for his role as Festus Haggen on the long-running CBS western television series Gunsmoke. Although he appeared on Gunsmoke in other roles he first appeared in his iconic role along in season 8 and episode 13, Us Haggens.. His next appearance was with his mule Ruth in Prairie Wolfer, season 9 and episode 16, also featuring Noah Beery, Jr. as the episode's villain.
Ken Curtis; Played 'Festus' on 'Gunsmoke'. April 30, 1991 | BURT A. FOLKART | TIMES STAFF WRITER. Ken Curtis, who as a boy helped out in his father's jail in Colorado and as a character named Festus Haggen performed similar work for Marshal Matt Dillon in Gunsmoke, is dead.
Festus Haggen. Ken Curtis, the son of a Colorado county sheriff, left his home state to seek his fortune as a singer in Los Angeles. He quickly met up with singer Jo Stafford who sent Ken's demo recording to band leader Tommy Dorsey. Dorsey signed Ken as a replacement for Frank Sinatra. Ken won the role of Gunsmoke deputy sheriff Festus Haggen in 1964. Although he was cast to fill the void left by the departing actor Dennis Weaver, Curtis' character proved extremely popular. As a result, he remained with the show for more than 10 years, until its cancellation in 1975
In The Quiet Man (1952), he played an accordion and sang tenor in the bar. Not only was Ken Curtis in Dodge City in the tv series, Gunsmoke, from 1962-1975, he also was in Dodge City in the movie Cheyenne Autumn (1964). Best remembered by the public for his role as Festus Haggen on Gunsmoke (1955). Best friend of James Arness. Although his character, Festus Haggen, was introduced to Gunsmoke (1955) in an episode called Us Haggens, in which he arrived in Dodge City to avenge the death of his twin brother, the fact that Festus had a twin was never again mentioned on the show.
Character Bio. Festus Haggen was Marshal Matt Dillon's only official deputy on the CBS television series Gunsmoke. He came to Dodge City in an episode titled Us Haggens to avenge the death of his twin brother, Fergus. Played by Ken Curtis, he first appeared in 1962 and was showcased full-time from 1964 until 1975