How to Use Meyer Lemons. Meyer lemons are, as mentioned, sweeter than regular lemons, making them great additions as fruit rather than just juice and for adding lemon flavor without the mouth-puckering sourness of other lemons. 
Question: What exactly is a Meyer lemon tree? Answer: Meyer lemon trees were discovered by Frank N. Meyer, an agricultural explorer (his real job title), for the USDA. 
Basics of Meyer Lemon Growing. Meyer lemon tree care includes finding the right location for your tree. Whether grown in a container or planted in the ground, Meyer lemon growing requires at least six hours of sunlight. In the hottest summer areas, morning sun and afternoon shade is best for growing Meyer lemons. 
Growing Meyer lemon trees in garden pots is hugely rewarding. Not only are they prolific fruit producers, the blossoms of Meyer lemon trees are incredibly fragrant and beautiful. The Meyer lemon fruit is also sweeter than the fruit of other lemons and even their thin skin is tasty and great for cooking. Though Meyer lemon trees are naturally shrub-like, they can also be pruned into tree form. When planted in the ground, they can grow up to 8-10 feet tall and up to 12 feet wide. When grown in garden pots, depending on the size of the pot, your plant will be smaller. What Meyer lemon trees like: 1  Full sun.
How to Cook Meyer Lemons. Meyer Lemons are prized for their lemonic nature without the harsh acidity. So, keep that in mind as you experiment with this hybrid. Sectioned and added to fruit salads, meyers add a uniquely gourmet twist. Health Benefits of Meyer Lemons. As a hybrid of a lemon and a mandarin, Meyers maintain many of the health-giving qualities of their citrus parents, blending the best of both worlds.
Uses for Meyer Lemons. When a recipe calls for the juice of one lemon, be very careful, because you can get about 1- 1 1/2 cups of juice from a large lemon. 
Meyer lemons, on the other hand, were first introduced to the United States from China in the early 20th century by Frank Meyer, from whom they also got their name. This sweet winter citrus is thought to be a cross between a regular lemon and a mandarin orange. And that's what really sets it apart. 1  Appearance-Meyer lemons are smaller and more round than regular lemons, with smoother, thin, deep yellow to orange skin, and dark yellow pulp. 2  The differences are very distinct, especially when you see both varieties side by sid
Meyer Lemon Tree. The Meyer lemon (Citrus × meyeri) is native to China. This hybrid citrus tree is sweeter and less acidic than true lemons, with a thinner, edible, deep yellow skin, and a notable floral scent. Meyer lemons are popular backyard citrus trees. The improved Meyer lemon tree is a virus-free version of the Meyer lemon tree imported to the United States from China. The original Meyer tree was banned from commercial production decades ago.