Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: hello Japan sought to invade Malaya because, like other nations in South-East Asia, it had valuable natural resources that could be employed in its Pacific War with the Allies. Singapore, which lay to the south, was connected to Malaya by the Johor-Singapore Causeway. 
The Battle of Singapore, also known as the Fall of Singapore, was fought in the South-East Asian theatre of the Second World War when the Empire of Japan invaded the British stronghold of Singapore. Singapore was the major British military base in South-East Asia and nicknamed the Gibraltar of the East. The fighting in Singapore lasted from 8 to 15 February 1942. It resulted in the capture of Singapore by the Japanese and the largest surrender of British-led military personnel in history. The aerial campaign for Singapore began at the outset of the invasion of Malaya. Early on 8 December 1941, Singapore was bombed for the first time by long-range Japanese aircraft, such as the Mitsubishi G3M 2 Nell and the Mitsubishi G4M 1 Betty, based in Japanese-occupied Indochina.
By clearing Commonwealth forces out of Malaya, Singapore and the Dutch East Indies, to Japanese could focus on reinforcing its two critical battle zones in the SW Pacific -- Kokoda and Guadalcanal. 7. Capturing Singapore would be a huge morale boost to the Japanese people and its armed forces. 5. Capturing Singapore denied the Allies its port facilities, its repair capacity and using it as a base to attack the Japanese in the western Pacific. It effectively pushed the Brtish entirely out of the Pacific, to Trincomalee in Ceylon.
(September 2009). The Japanese occupation of Singapore in World War II took place from 1942 to 1945, following the fall of the British colony on 15 February 1942. Military forces of the Empire of Japan occupied it after defeating the combined Australian, British, Indian, and Malayan garrison in the Battle of Singapore. 
4. Singapore was a key part of the Japanese outer defence chain for the Asian Greater Co-prosperity Sphere. 5. Capturing Singapore denied the Allies its port facilities, its repair capacity and using it as a base to attack the Japanese in the western Pacific. It effectively pushed the Brtish entirely out of the Pacific, to Trincomalee in Ceylon.
Japan invaded Singapore because it was a strategic point in South East Asia. It was a hub for the distribution of oil throughout Asia, and it was a base that they could form f … or an attack on Indonesia, the East Indies, which was one of the major producers of oil during those times. Japan wanted to invade China because China possessed the resources  that Japan did not. Japan especially wanted China's coal reserves  and labor force
Confidence votes 15. Japan invaded Singapore because it was a strategic point in South East Asia. It was a hub for the distribution of oil throughout Asia, and it was a base that they could form for an attack on Indonesia, the East Indies, which was one of the major producers of oil during those times.
2. Capturing Singapore was a crushing blow to British prestige in Asia and showed that Asian could defeat their European masters. Thus it had the potential to spark revolutionary movements across Asia which the Japanese could harness, as they did with the Indian National Army. 5. Capturing Singapore denied the Allies its port facilities, its repair capacity and using it as a base to attack the Japanese in the western Pacific. It effectively pushed the Brtish entirely out of the Pacific, to Trincomalee in Ceylon.