Florence in Italy was the birthplace of the Renaissance and from there is spread through France to Northern Europe. With the Renaissance movement came humanism which had a hug … e impact on religion in Northern Europe. It lead to the arrival of the Reformation and the turmoil that came with it. Catholicism in Italy however remained untouchable. Protestantism never really happened in Italy. With regard to art.
Geography aside, there were some significant differences between the Italian Renaissance and the Northern Renaissance. For one thing, the north held on to Gothic (or  Middle Ages ) art and architecture with a tighter, longer grip than did Italy. 
Differences between the Italian an Northern Renaissance The Renaissance was a period of great cultural and technological changes which swept Europe from the end of the 13 th century. It was integral in developing Europe into a powerhouse. Northern Renaissance The Northern Renaissance is the term used to describe the Renaissance in northern Europe, or more broadly in Europe outside Italy. Before 1450 Italian Renaissance humanism had little influence outside Italy. From the late 15th century the ideas spread around Europ
The Northern Renaissance was the Renaissance that occurred in Europe north of the Alps. Before 1497, Italian Renaissance humanism had little influence outside Italy. From the late 15th century, its ideas spread around Europe. 
Northern Renaissance was also focused on humanism that was influenced by the Italian Renaissance and had its own intellectual movement spread in universities and through the printing press. Similar to Venice, Italy, Antwerp and Bruges became big in trade and commerce in 15th to 16th century11. P. 15 TO WHAT EXTENT WAS THE NORTHERN RENAISSANCE DIFFERENT FROM THE ITALIAN RENAISSANCE? 5 Bibliography Baron, Hans. (1966). The Crisis of the Early Italian Renaissance: Civic Humanism and Republican Liberty in an Age of Classicism and Tyranny. Princeton University Press: New York Bartlett, Kenneth R. (2011).
Perhaps the greatest difference between the Italian Renaissance and the rest of the Renaissance throughout Europe was in the Northern Renaissance's close ties to the Christian church. This gave birth to christian humanism, or a mixing of the knowledge of the antiquities with the moral teachings of Jesus Christ. This lesson will focus on the Northern Renaissance. It will contrast the Renaissance of the North with the Italian Renaissance, exploring these differences in the areas of art, politics, and religion.
Answers. Best Answer: Florence in Italy was the birth-place of the Renaissance and from there is spread through France to Northern Europe. With the Renaissance movement came humanism which had a huge impact on religion in Northern Europe. It lead to the arrival of the Reformation and the turmoil that came with it. Best Answer: Florence in Italy was the birth-place of the Renaissance and from there is spread through France to Northern Europe. With the Renaissance movement came humanism which had a huge impact on religion in Northern Europe
Differences between Italian and Northern Renaissance In some areas the Northern Renaissance was distinct from the Italian Renaissance in its centralization of political power. While Italy and Germany were dominated by independent city-states, parts of central and Western Europe began emerging as nation-states. Northern Renaissance The Northern Renaissance is the term used to describe the Renaissance in northern Europe, or more broadly in Europe outside Italy. Before 1450 Italian Renaissance humanism had little influence outside Italy. From the late 15th century the ideas spread around Europe