The Redd Foxx Estate mess. There was an interesting article recently in AOL News about the Redd Foxx Estate. The successful comedian and star of Sanford and Son (whose real name was John Elroy Sanford) died October 11, 1991. Apparently, the Estate has no assets. 
Fred G. Sanford is a fictional character portrayed by actor/comedian Redd Foxx on the 1972-1977 NBC sitcom Sanford and Son. Foxx, whose real name was John Elroy Sanford, modeled the character after his real-life brother, whose name in fact was Fred Sanford. 
Synopsis. Born in 1922, Redd Foxx was the stage name of John Elroy Sanford, an American comedian and actor. He left home around the age of 13 to become a performer. Foxx performed on the chitlin circuit of black nightclubs during the 1940s and 1950s. 
John Elroy Sanford was born into poverty in St. Louis on December 9, 1922. With a ruddy complexion, Redd became a fast nickname. He derived Foxx from admirable Major League Baseball player, Jimmie Foxx. He left St. Louis for Chicago when he was 13, and supported himself by playing the washboard in a band. 
John Elroy Sanford was born on December 9, 1922 in St. Louis, and with his ruddy complexion, soon got the nickname of “Redd.” He got the name “Foxx” from Jimmie Foxx, a major league baseball player. Early Years. John Elroy Sanford was born on December 9, 1922 in St. Louis, and with his ruddy complexion, soon got the nickname of “Redd.” He got the name “Foxx” from Jimmie Foxx, a major league baseball player. He moved to Chicago at 13, and played washboard in a band to support himself.
Jon Elroy Sanford (December 9, 1922 – October 11, 1991), known professionally as Redd Foxx, was an American comedian and actor, best remembered for his explicit comedy records and his starring role on the 1970s sitcom Sanford and Son. Foxx was born in St. Louis, Missouri and raised on Chicago 's South Side. His father, Fred Sanford, an electrician and auto mechanic from Hickman, Kentucky, left his family when Foxx was four years old.
He chose Jamie because of its gender ambiguity. Foxx was his way of paying tribute to one of his favorite performers, Redd Foxx -- whose moniker was also a stage name. (Redd Foxx, best known for his role in '70s sitcom Sanford and Son, was born John Elroy Sanford.). 