Percutaneous Injection Laryngoplasty is a new method developed to improve the operating procedures using electromyogram. Without the need of anesthesia, this new process preserves major vocal membrane and vocal layer, and allows for inserting an organic prosthesis in the right place. 
Feminization laryngoplasty. Feminization laryngoplasty is a surgery designed for male-to-female transgender patients. The procedure is designed to remodel the genetic male's voice box, to make it smaller and the vocal cords shorter,in an attempt to raise the comfortable speaking pitch. In conclusion, thyroid cartilage and vocal fold reduction is an effective method for long-term alteration of voice in male-to-female transsexuals. I have performed Feminization Laryngoplasty 108 individuals (as of 1/29/2013). Eighteen of the first 40 cases were revised.
The price difference between the standing procedure and major surgery is substantial. A ventriculectomy may only cost around $700 or $800, while the price of a laryngoplasty may cost $2,000 to $2,500 with hospitalization and post-operative care. And surgery doesn’t always eliminate the noise completely. 
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to compare the reimbursement of office-based injection laryngoplasty with the reimbursement of performing the same procedure in the operating room. DESIGN: The authors conducted reimbursement and outcome analysis through retrospective office chart and hospital record review. A predictive model of potential cost savings is developed based on the results of the analysis. RESULTS: Average reimbursement was 2,505 dollars for group I (n = 108) and 496 dollars for group II (n = 50). This reimbursement differential was preserved across the various insurance types examined.
Definition. Injection medialization laryngoplasty is a procedure that provides support to a vocal fold that lacks either the bulk (such as in vocal fold bowing) or the mobility (such as in paralysis) it once had. If more injection is required, it can be done immediately. The procedure is simpler: there is much less equipment to set up. The risks are fewer. The cost is far less: no operating room fee (and this is usually the largest part of the bill for a surgery) and no anesthesia bill.
These 10 animal facts will amaze you. A thyroplasty is a surgery which is designed to address weakened vocal cords. In the surgery, the doctor changes the length or position of the vocal cords to make them stronger. 
Your case may be different. If your physician has given you specific instructions, please follow them. DEFINITION: • Thyroplasty, arytenoid adduction, and injection laryngoplasty are surgical procedures to move a paralyzed or weak vocal fold (cord) closer to the center of the larynx in order to improve the voice. Injection laryngoplasty is accomplished by injecting a substance into the vocal fold. ROUTINE INSTRUCTIONS: Activity: • Limit voice use for a week after surgery. This means use the voice only when necessary. This helps reduce swelling of the vocal folds and avoids “slippage” of the implant..
Indications. Injection medialization of the vocal cords may be used for paralysis or atrophy of the vocal cord or cords. The vocal cord may require support if it is paralyzed and/or if it is bowed. If more injection is required, it can be done immediately. The procedure is simpler: there is much less equipment to set up. The risks are fewer. The cost is far less: no operating room fee (and this is usually the largest part of the bill for a surgery) and no anesthesia bill.
The longest follow-up was 6 years. In conclusion, thyroid cartilage and vocal fold reduction is an effective method for long-term alteration of voice in male-to-female transsexuals. I have performed Feminization Laryngoplasty 108 individuals (as of 1/29/2013). Eighteen of the first 40 cases were revised.