Clear ammonia is a mixture of ammonia and water, while cloudy (or sudsy) ammonia is a mix of ammonia, soap (or detergent) and water. Clear is better where no streaking can be tolerated----such as cleaning windows, mirrors, chrome, etc.-----while cloudy or sudsy is likely a better cleaning agent. And finally, does cloudy ammonia say cloudy ammonia on the bottle or do I just get... show more I have a recipe for a spot remover that calls for cloudy ammonia, dish soap and water. I have lemon scented ammonia, and it looks clear.
A copy of the The Facts About Ammonia (Technical Information) is available in Adobe Portable Document Format (PDF, 63 KB, 3pg.). Note to reader: This fact sheet is intended to provide general awareness and education on a specific chemical agent. 1 Ammonia has alkaline properties and is corrosive. 2  Ammonia gas dissolves easily in water to form ammonium hydroxide, a caustic solution and weak base. 3  Ammonia gas is easily compressed and forms a clear liquid under pressure.
Ammonia or azane is a compound of nitrogen and hydrogen with the formula NH 3. It is a colourless gas with a characteristic pungent smell. Ammonia contributes significantly to the nutritional needs of terrestrial organisms by serving as a precursor to food and fertilizers. Ammonia is a colourless gas with a characteristic pungent smell. It is lighter than air, its density being 0.589 times that of air. It is easily liquefied due to the strong hydrogen bonding between molecules; the liquid boils at −33.3 °C (−27.94 °F), and freezes at −77.7 °C (−107.86 °F) to white crystals.
Household ammonia or ammonium hydroxide is a solution of NH 3 in water. The concentration of such solutions is measured in units of the Baume baumé (scale), density with 26 degrees (baume bauméabout (30 %) by weight ammonia.at °15 5 c.or °59) 9 f being the-typical high concentration. commercial product Ammonia is a colourless gas with a characteristic pungent smell. It is lighter than air, its density being 0.589 times that of air. It is easily liquefied due to the strong hydrogen bonding between molecules; the liquid boils at −33.3 °C (−27.94 °F), and freezes at −77.7 °C (−107.86 °F) to white crystals.
A copy of the The Facts About Ammonia (General Information) is available in Adobe Portable Document Format (PDF, 63 KB, 3pg.). Note to reader: This fact sheet is intended to provide general awareness and education on a specific chemical agent. In pure form, it is known as anhydrous ammonia. Ammonia is also produced in the human body and is commonly found in nature. It is essential in the body as a building block for making proteins and other complex molecules. In nature, ammonia occurs in soil from bacterial processes.
Ammonia in this form is also known as ammonia gas or anhydrous (without water) ammonia. Ammonia gas can also be compressed and becomes a liquid under pressure. The odor of ammonia is familiar to most people because ammonia is used in smelling salts, household cleaners, and window cleaning products. Ammonia is very important to plant, animal, and human life. It is found in water, soil, and air, and is a source of much needed nitrogen for plants and animals. Most of the ammonia in the environment comes from the natural breakdown of manure and dead
Ammonia is a common ingredient in both commercial and DIY cleaners. It is also used to produce fertilisers, plastics, synthetic fibres, dyes and pharmaceuticals. Household ammonia, bought in the cleaning section of the supermarket, is really a solution of water with 5-10% ammonium hydroxide. Cloudy ammonia is the same thing with a little soap added
Ammonia is the number one ingredient in fertilizers and has also been used as rocket fuel, drinking water purifier, and industrial food processing additive. While that makes ammonia sound like a dangerous chemical to have around, the truth is that ammonia has been used around the household for decades. 
Main article: Ammonia. Ammonia solution, also known as ammonium hydroxide, ammonia water, ammonical liquor, ammonia liquor, aqua ammonia, aqueous ammonia, or simply ammonia, is a solution of ammonia in water. Like other gases, ammonia exhibits decreasing solubility in solvent liquids as the temperature of the solvent increases. Ammonia solutions decrease in density as the concentration of dissolved ammonia