LSD (D-lysergic acid diethylamde) is a highly potent synthetic hallucinogen. It is manufactured from a lysergic acid compound found in ergot, a fungus that grows on grains. 1 Because of its high potential for abuse, LSD is currently a Schedule I drug under the Controlled Substances Act of 1970. Currently, there is no accepted medical use in the United States. 2.
LSD is a hallucinogenic drug first synthesised by Albert Hofmann. It is usually ingested either through swallowing, or by being held in the mouth, allowing the mucous glands … beneath the tongue to absorb the chemical as the medium, usually a small pill or 'tab' of blotter paper, dissolves. To explain LSD, or any trip for that matter, is a drug that induces an Epiphany, or multiple for that matter. Colors may seem brighter, or of a more contrasting shade or tone to the other colors around it, while they too are doing the same thing.
LSD is the abbreviation of the German words for lysergic acid diethylamide. It is the drug most commonly identified with the term hallucinogen and the most widely used in this class of drugs. It is considered the typical hallucinogen, and the characteristics of its action and effects apply to other hallucinogens.
Most users of LSD voluntarily decrease or stop its use over time. LSD is not considered to be an addicting drug because it does not produce compulsive drug-seeking behavior like cocaine, amphetamines, heroin, alcohol, or nicotine. Some LSD users experience flashbacks, recurrence of certain aspects of a person’s experience even if the user doesn’t take the drug again. A flashback occurs suddenly, often without warning, and may occur within a few days or more than a year after LSD use.
Nicotine is a stimulant drug most commonly found in tobacco products. Nicotine and tobacco products are regulated in most countries, and are usually only available for sale to adults: In many developed nations one is required to be 18 or 21—depending on the country—to purchase nicotine or tobacco products. Ephedrine is a sympathomimetic amine that is an adrenergic receptor agonist and is used as a stimulant. The drug is found naturally in various plants in the genus Ephedra, most commonly sourced from Ephedra sinica (also known as ma huang) and historically consumed via a medicinal preparation of the same name.
LSD Information. LSD (lysergic acid diethylamide) is one of the major drugs making up the hallucinogen class. LSD was discovered in 1938 and is one of the most potent mood-changing chemicals. It is manufactured from lysergic acid, which is found in ergot, a fungus that grows on rye and other grains. LSD, commonly referred to as “acid,” is sold on the street in tablets, capsules, and, occasionally, liquid form. It is odorless, colorless, and has a slightly bitter taste and is usually taken by mouth. 
Use of most drugs other than marijuana has stabilized over the past decade or has declined. In 2013, 6.5 million Americans aged 12 or older (or 2.5 percent) had used prescription drugs nonmedically in the past month. Prescription drugs include pain relievers, tranquilizers, stimulants, and sedatives. Next most common are prescription pain relievers, followed by inhalants (which is most common among younger teens). Drug use is highest among people in their late teens and twenties. In 2013, 22.6 percent of 18- to 20-year-olds reported using an illicit drug
LSD is usually found on “blotter” paper (paper that is perforated into small squares). The squares or “tabs” may be colored or have images printed on them. Liquid LSD is a clear liquid, usually in a small container, tube or flask. LSD can also be found in thin squares of gelatin. Some LSD users experience flashbacks, recurrence of certain aspects of a person’s experience even if the user doesn’t take the drug again. A flashback occurs suddenly, often without warning, and may occur within a few days or more than a year after LSD use.
DMT is a powerful hallucinogenic drug found in certain plants in the West Indies and South America. Its chemical structure is very similar to that of psilocybin. In Australia, most DMT bought on the street is synthetic. 
10 The most common form of LSD is as a liquid that has been transferred onto a small paper square (known as blotter) or as a microdot tablet. It is also found as a powder or crystal, dried on gelatin sheets, put into capsules or on sugar cubes, or laced with other drugs. It is manufactured from a lysergic acid compound found in ergot, a fungus that grows on grains. 1 Because of its high potential for abuse, LSD is currently a Schedule I drug under the Controlled Substances Act of 1970. Currently, there is no accepted medical use in the United States. 2.