Marker pens. Toluene; xylene. Effects of Inhalants on the Nervous System When vapors are inhaled (1), they are absorbed through the lungs (2) and enter the bloodstream (3). Once in the bloodstream, the chemicals travel to the brain (4) and other tissues throughout the body. Inhalants not only damage the nervous system, but other organs such as the lungs, liver, heart and kidney can be injured permanently. DANGER: Keep away from heat and flame.
The population attributable risk estimates for respiratory disorders due to inhalant exposure were: bronchitis, 23.6%; recurrent lung infection, 36.3%; bronchodilator use, 24.3%; and obstructive lung disease, 29.6%. CONCLUSIONS: Occupational inhalant exposure is a strong risk factor for lung disease in this population of never smokers. A significant burden of respiratory disease in this population may be attributable to occupational inhalant exposure.
The effects of any drug (including inhalants) vary from person to person. How inhalants affect a person depends on many things including their size, weight and health, also whether the person is used to taking it and whether other drugs are taken. The effects of any drug also depend on the amount taken. There is no safe level of drug use
Inhalants are used either by sniffing though the nose or inhaling fumes through the open mouth (huffing) much like a smoker breathes in cigarette smoke. Usually the open tube of glue, nail polish or marker is placed close to the nose and the fumes inhaled. Inhalant abusers often present with a wide variety of social, educational, physical and cognitive problems. There must, therefore, be an understanding of abuser characteristics to ensure that inhalant abuse information is elicited.
Using inhalants is a problem when it negatively affects our life or the lives of others. Many of us may think this refers only to people who regularly use, but even a single occasion of use can lead to a problem. For instance, we may make a poor decision that results in problems with relationships or the law. Inhalants are absorbed through the lungs and travel quickly through the bloodstream to the brain. Volatile solvents slow down activity between the nerve cells in the brain. This usually makes us feel more relaxed. But the effects of inhalants can be different for different people.
Inhaling (also called huffing or sniffing) chemicals is a problem for many people including teenagers. Inhalants are cheap and can be found everywhere-in kitchens, garages and schools. There are hundreds of different materials that can be abused by people who inhale these dangerous chemicals. Inhalants not only damage the nervous system, but other organs such as the lungs, liver, heart and kidney can be injured permanently. DANGER: Keep away from heat and flame.
This syndrome, known as sudden sniffing death, can result from a single session of inhalant use by an otherwise healthy young person. Sudden sniffing death is associated particularly with the abuse of butane, propane, and chemicals in aerosols. Inhalant abuse also can cause death by—. 1  asphyxiation — from repeated inhalations that lead to high concentrations of inhaled fumes, which displace available oxygen in the lungs; 2  suffocation — from blocking air from entering the lungs when inhaling fumes from a plastic bag placed over the head; 
A. BRAIN The chemicals abused by inhalant users affect different parts of the brain, producing a variety of sensory and psychological disorders. Many inhalants are thought to dissolve the protective myelin sheath that surrounds neurons-brain cells-resulting in cell death (see brain diagram). B. LUNGS Repeated use of spray paint as an inhalant can cause lung damage. C. HEART Abuse of inhalants can result in sudden sniffing death syndrome.. This is due to a sudden and unexpected disturbance of the heart's rhythm. All inhalants can produce sudden sniffing death syndrome.
Inhalants can be classified by the intended function. Most inhalant drugs that are used non-medically are ingredients in household or industrial chemical products that are not intended to be concentrated and inhaled. A small number of recreational inhalant drugs are pharmaceutical products that are used illicitly. The effects of inhalants range from an alcohol-like intoxication and intense euphoria to vivid hallucinations, depending on the substance and the dose. Some inhalant users are injured due to the harmful effects of the solvents or gases or due to other chemicals used in the products that they are inhaling.