A day in the life of the makeup artist is tough to pin down, because every day can be totally different for this dynamic and constantly changing profession! One day you may be doing makeup backstage at a runway fashion show, and the next day you could be doing makeup for a bride and her bridal, party. One thing the BLS cannot accurately account for, though, is tips and gratuities earned, so the lowest makeup artist salary on their scale may not be accurate. The median salary for makeup artists is $60,830 before tips – one of the highest of any of the beauty professions on this site (BLS, 2015).
In the 1920s, the movie industry in Hollywood had the most influential impact on cosmetics. Stars such as Theda Bara had a substantial effect on the makeup industry. Helena Rubinstein was Bara’s makeup artist; she created mascara for the actress, relying on her experiments with kohl. Some argue that cosmetic body art was the earliest form of ritual in human culture, dating over 100,000 years ago from the African Middle Stone Age. The evidence for this comes in the form of utilised red mineral pigments (red ochre) including crayons associated with the emergence of Homo sapiens in Africa.
History [edit]. MAC Cosmetics, Makeup Art Cosmetics, was founded in Toronto, Ontario, Canada by Frank Toskan and Frank Angelo in 1984 with the assistance of chemist Vic Casale. The first U.S MAC store opened in 1991, in New York. MAC Cosmetics (Make-up Art Cosmetics; stylized as M·A·C) is a manufacturer of cosmetics headquartered in New York City. M·A·C store in the SM Aura Premier mall in Bonifacio Global City, Metro Manila, Philippines.
Cosmetics were also used in ancient Rome, although much of Roman literature suggests that it was frowned upon. It is known that some women in ancient Rome used various substances, including lead-based formulas, to whiten the skin, and kohl was used to line the eyes. Some argue that cosmetic body art was the earliest form of ritual in human culture, dating over 100,000 years ago from the African Middle Stone Age. The evidence for this comes in the form of utilised red mineral pigments (red ochre) including crayons associated with the emergence of Homo sapiens in Africa.
Cosmetics in the 1970s were divided into a natural look for day and a more sexualized image for evening. Non-allergic makeup appeared when the bare face was in fashion as women became more interested in the chemical value of their makeup. Some argue that cosmetic body art was the earliest form of ritual in human culture, dating over 100,000 years ago from the African Middle Stone Age. The evidence for this comes in the form of utilised red mineral pigments (red ochre) including crayons associated with the emergence of Homo sapiens in Africa.
About Us. beGlammed is the leading on-demand beauty service that delivers professional hairstylists and makeup artists straight to your door. Tap the app to book a personal beauty team and get pampered on-demand in the comfort of your home, office, hotel, or any other location. 
The history of cosmetics spans at least 6000 years and is present in almost every society on earth. Some argue that cosmetic body art was the earliest form of ritual in human culture, dating over 100,000 years ago from the African Middle Stone Age. The evidence for this comes in the form of utilised red mineral pigments (red ochre) including crayons associated with the emergence of Homo sapiens in Africa.
MAC Cosmetics Inc. (Make-up Art Cosmetics) was started in Canada by Frank Toskan and Frank Angelo in 1984. Angelo was the original founder. Toskan was a make-up artist and photographer, and Angelo was the owner of a hair salon chain. 1 If you want a gift card that is redeemable at a MAC Counter, you should just get a gift card to the department store where the. 2  MAC Counter is located. 3  MAC Cosmetics offers the MAC Pro and MAC Pro Student programs to provide support to Makeup Artists and Makeup Artists in training.
38 thoughts on “ The History Behind MAC Cosmetics ”. Thankyou for you great websites full of info. I was interested in M.A.C History and all info was easy to read and find. 110/100 ;) ;). Thanxs again Robyn Barnett, Make-up Artist. 1 If you want a gift card that is redeemable at a MAC Counter, you should just get a gift card to the department store where the. 2  MAC Counter is located. 3  MAC Cosmetics offers the MAC Pro and MAC Pro Student programs to provide support to Makeup Artists and Makeup Artists in training.