Two-Hands Lateral Raise. This exercise will develop your shoulders, especially the lateral or side area. Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart. With a handle in each hand, position your hands so that they are facing inwards and your arms are in front of your hips. Overhead Downward Pull. To strengthen your latisimus dorsi muscles in your back and your lower trapezius muscles below your shoulder blades, stand with your feet shoulder-width apart and your hands by your sides.
Strong Shoulders. The spring chest expander works the deltoids as the primary muscle for the movement. There are three primary sections to your deltoids, or shoulder muscles, anterior or front, middle and posterior or back. Broad Back. The basic exercise of the spring chest expander also engages the upper back muscles. The pulling action requires the upper back to engage. To get more back flexion out of this exercise, squeeze your shoulder blades toward each other as you pull the chest expander outward.
Triceps. A simple exercise that you can carry out at home is to move one hand behind the back while holding one handle of a chest expander. Hold the other handle with the other hand at the lower back and then try to extend the upper hand as far as you can. Pectorals. When pulling a chest expander outwards, the pectorals (chest muscles) also benefit. To achieve the best results, hold this exercise equipment at the shoulder level and then pull it to the limit. This motion works the upper part of the chest creating chest flexion.
Using a chest expander, you would be able to activate and exercise all of the aforementioned muscle groups. In addition, working the chest muscle normally tends to benefit other supporting muscle groups as well, including the latissimus dorsi in the back and the triceps. Pectorals. When pulling a chest expander outwards, the pectorals (chest muscles) also benefit. To achieve the best results, hold this exercise equipment at the shoulder level and then pull it to the limit. This motion works the upper part of the chest creating chest flexion.
Structure and Function. Most of the muscles in the upper back are affected by horizontal elbow extension with the chest expander, including the trapezius, deltoid, serratus anterior, latissimus dorsi, teres major and minor, and even the triceps brachii. The expanders should begin in front of your torso. Raise your arms and forearms until they are parallel to the floor and maintain this arm height throughout the exercise. 2. Begin with your elbows pointing outward and with your palms facing each other and your hands at the level of your sternum.
To strengthen your shoulders and triceps, stand with your feet shoulder-width apart and hold the chest expander handles in your hands. Place your left hand next to your hip and your right hand at shoulder level so that the cables run across your body diagonally. Overhead Downward Pull. To strengthen your latisimus dorsi muscles in your back and your lower trapezius muscles below your shoulder blades, stand with your feet shoulder-width apart and your hands by your sides.
Another benefit of chest expander training is the relative safety of the exercise when compared to higher resistance methods of training such as free weights and exercise machines. Free weights require you to stop a significant amount of inertia when lifting, which can be hard on your joints. Chest expanders are more difficult to injure yourself with than free weights, but it's not impossible. A sudden snap of the band can cause painful slaps and pinches, and you can push yourself too far by extending the band past the limits of your muscles, especially when fatigue sets in.
Fibers of the middle (medial) segment of the trapezius cause an upward rotation of the scapula and this helps to elevate the arm. The medial fibers of the trapezius help squeeze the scapula together, and this is the region that is most active in the chest expander exercise. The expanders should begin in front of your torso. Raise your arms and forearms until they are parallel to the floor and maintain this arm height throughout the exercise. 2. Begin with your elbows pointing outward and with your palms facing each other and your hands at the level of your sternum.
The focus here will be on the upper (superior) back and shoulder musculature that's affected by the horizontal elbow extension chest expander. 1. Take a tight grip on than handles at either end of the expanders. The expanders should begin in front of your torso. Raise your arms and forearms until they are parallel to the floor and maintain this arm height throughout the exercise. 2. Begin with your elbows pointing outward and with your palms facing each other and your hands at the level of your sternum.