After working for 10 to 20 years, College Admissions Counselors make a median salary of $45K. Folks with more than two decades of experience actually report lower incomes overall; their average comes out to a mere $42K. Pay for College Admissions Counselors in the United States is very modest at just $35K annually. Pay generally varies between $28K and $49K per year. Location is the biggest factor affecting pay for this group, followed by career length. Most enjoy medical while a strong majority get dental coverage.
College Admissions Counselor Salary. College Admissions Counselor average salary is $28,369, median salary is $25,000 with a salary range from $21,000 to $45,765. College Admissions Counselor salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position
Admissions Counselor Salary. Admissions Counselor average salary is $32,234, median salary is $31,000 with a salary range from $21,000 to $62,400. Admissions Counselor salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Admissions Counselor salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented as is and updated regularly.
Average College Admissions Counselor salaries for job postings nationwide are 29% lower than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
(United States). The average pay for an Admissions Counselor is $34,973 per year. Pay for this job rises steadily for more experienced workers, but goes down significantly for the few employees with more than 20 years' experience. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 10 years' experience in this career.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Admissions Representative-Higher Ed. in the United States is $38,022 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Admissions Representative-Higher Ed. in the United States are expected to make less than $38,022. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. The annual salary for someone with the job title Admissions Representative-Higher Ed. may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education.
Average Admissions Counselor salaries for job postings nationwide are 29% lower than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
(United States). Pay for College Admissions Counselors in the United States is very modest at just $35K annually. Pay generally varies between $28K and $49K per year. Location is the biggest factor affecting pay for this group, followed by career length. Most enjoy medical while a strong majority get dental coverage.