The franc was abolished in 2002 and replaced by the Euro at the rate of €1 = 6.55957 francs. The subdivision of th … e franc was the centime, 1 franc = 100 centimes. The name 'centime' is also used in French for the subdivision of the Euro, €1 = 100 centimes.   France used the franc as its currency up till 2002.
The Euro is the official currency of France, and of most European Union member states, excluding the UK and the Czech Republic, among others. The Euro, symbolized by a €, has been in public circulation since January, 2002.
Select To Currency. NB Rates provided for information only. The Currency Converter is provided by xe.com. xe.com and its owners shall not be liable to User or any third party for any damage or loss incurred, monetary or otherwise, directly or indirectly, as a result of the use of the xe.com or the xe.com code.
The currency used in Paris is the Euro. Paris is the capital of France. If you are traveling to Paris, you will need to exchange your currency for the French Euro. You may exchange your money for the Euro at most Paris banks or at specialized stores called Foreign Exchange Bureaus.
Currency. The Euro is the official currency of France, and of most European Union member states, excluding the UK and the Czech Republic, among others. The Euro, symbolized by a €, has been in public circulation since January, 2002.
The currency of France is the Euro, as with the other countries in the Eurozone, and was launched at the beginning of 2002. The region sharing the euro as currency includes Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Portugal, Slovenia, Spain, Cyprus.
The currency used in France is the Euro (symbol €) and its the subdivision is called the 'cent' (English) or 'centime' (French).
Confidence votes 55. The currency used in France is the Euro (symbol €) and its the subdivision is called the 'cent' (English) or 'centime' (French). The Euro replaced the French franc in 2002 at the rate of €1 = 6.55957 francs, and the franc was no longer redeemable after February 2012.