An enterocutaneous fistula (ECF) is an abnormal connection that develops between the intestinal tract or stomach and the skin. As a result, contents of the stomach or intestines leak through to the skin. Most ECFs occur after bowel surgery. Other causes include infection, perforated peptic ulcer, inflammatory bowel disease, Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis.
Background. Fistulas are abnormal communications between two epithelialized surfaces. An intestinal fistula is an abnormal anatomic connection between a part (or multiple parts) of the intestinal lumen and the lumen of another epithelialized structure or the skin. Intestinal fistula includes many clinical entities.
A gastrointestinal fistula is an abnormal opening that allows the contents of the stomach or intestines to leak. 1  If it leaks through to a part of the intestines, it is called an entero-enteral fistula. 2  If it leaks to through to the skin, it is called an enterocutaneous fistula. Back to Top Causes. Most gastrointestinal fistulas occur after surgery. Other causes include: 1  Gastrointestinal obstruction. 2  Inflammatory processes, such as infection or inflammatory bowel disease (most often Crohn's disease). 3  Radiation to the abdomen (most often given as part of cancer treatment). 4  Trauma, especially penetrating wounds such as those due to a stabbing or gunshot
A gastrointestinal fistula (GIF) is an abnormal opening that allows gastric fluids to be discharged through the lining of the stomach, intestines, or colon. The discharge can leak into other organs or the skin, causing infection. There are four main types of GIFs: 
A fistula (a term derived from the Latin word for pipe) is an abnormal connection between 2 epithelialized surfaces that usually involves the gut and another hollow organ, such as the bladder, urethra, vagina, or other regions of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. 
Definition. A gastrointestinal fistula is an abnormal opening in the stomach or intestines that allows the contents to leak. 1  Leaks that go through to a part of the intestines are called entero-enteral fistulas. 2  Leaks that go through to the skin are called enterocutaneous fistulas. Causes. Most gastrointestinal fistulas occur after surgery. Other causes include: 1  Blockage in the gastrointestinal tract. 2  Infection. 3  Inflammatory bowel disease (most often Crohn's disease). 4  Radiation to the abdomen (most often given as part of cancer treatment). 5  Injury such as deep wounds from stabbing or gunshot
Background. A fistula (a term derived from the Latin word for pipe) is an abnormal connection between 2 epithelialized surfaces that usually involves the gut and another hollow organ, such as the bladder, urethra, vagina, or other regions of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract.
External intestinal fistula is connected to the SKIN (enterocutaneous fistula). Internal intestinal fistula can be connected to a number of organs, such as STOMACH (gastrocolic fistula), the BILIARY TRACT (cholecystoduodenal fistula), or the BLADDER of the URINARY TRACT (colovesical fistula). Intestinal fistula: An abnormal anatomical passage between the INTESTINE, and another segment of the intestine or other organs.