Additionally, they can send unlimited text messages for no extra charge, and they can call anywhere in the world from these countries for 20 cents per minute. Customers can easily add International Value Roaming to any Sprint domestic plan at www.sprint.com/internationalroaming or by visiting a Sprint store. Customers looking for higher data speeds can choose from three of our Sprint International Speed Data Roaming options offering up to 3G network speeds 3 for one-day, seven-day and 14-day passes, starting at just $15. Competitive Comparison\n \nAll pricing excludes taxes and fees.
Domestic data roaming occurs when you travel outside of T-Mobile's network coverage, using wireless data from another carrier. There's no added charge for the service. 
Roaming Settings. With your phone and global roaming service from Sprint Worldwide SM Wireless Service, you can make phone calls and use wireless data services around the globe on compatible CDMA and GSM/UMTS networks. Set Roam Mode. Roaming Guard. Data Roam Guard. When you are roaming off the Nationwide Sprint Network, you may not receive a notification of new voicemail messages on your phone. Callers can still leave messages, but you will need to periodically check your voicemail for new messages if you are in a roaming service area for an extended period of time.
Sprint to offer free international data roaming. Sprint hopes to attract new customers with a plan designed to give global travelers free data roaming in 15 countries. Both plans will let customers pay extra for faster connections on 3G networks. Sprint customers can pay $15 for 100MB of data downloads on a one-day pass, $25 for 200MB on a seven-day pass and $50 for 500MB on a 14-day pass.
The Sprint Unlimited Plus Plan includes unlimited data, talk, text, Unlimited International text from the U.S., International Value Roaming and a free 32GB Galaxy S6 for $80 per month after $20 credit. Customers looking for higher data speeds can choose from three of our Sprint International Speed Data Roaming options offering up to 3G network speeds 3 for one-day, seven-day and 14-day passes, starting at just $15. Competitive Comparison\n \nAll pricing excludes taxes and fees.
T-Mobile's roaming plan offers free data service in more than 120 countries. Sprint will also allow customers to make free calls using Wi-Fi hotspots while traveling overseas. Both plans will let customers pay extra for faster connections on 3G networks. Sprint customers can pay $15 for 100MB of data downloads on a one-day pass, $25 for 200MB on a seven-day pass and $50 for 500MB on a 14-day pass.
(BUSINESS WIRE), April 10, 2015 - Beginning today, Sprint (NYSE: S) is introducing International Value Roaming, giving customers the ability to travel to major areas in Latin America, Europe and Japan and roam with up to 2G speeds to read emails and surf the web at no additional charge 1. Customers looking for higher data speeds can choose from three of our Sprint International Speed Data Roaming options offering up to 3G network speeds 3 for one-day, seven-day and 14-day passes, starting at just $15. Competitive Comparison\n \nAll pricing excludes taxes and fees.
Image © Sprint Nextel Corp. U.S. wireless roaming is free on all nationwide Sprint plans. While no additional fees are incurred during Sprint roaming, these minutes are treated like your regular Sprint minutes. For example, a U.S. roaming minute at 3 p.m. on Tuesday would count as a regular anytime minute whereas a roaming minute on Saturday would count as a free night-and-weekend minute. These minutes do not pull from your regular monthly plan minutes. It can take 30 to 60 days before international roaming usage appears on your Sprint invoice. International roaming can cost up to a pricey $4.99 per minute with Sprint. Sprint lists its international roaming rates here.
& fees by area (approx. 5-20%)]. Surcharges are not taxes. See sprint.com/taxesandfees. *International countries/destinations, roaming rates and coverage are subject to change at any time without notice; please check sprint.com/international for most current information. Rates and coverage effective as of 11/13/2014. Add an international data pack to your domestic data plan for your smartphone, tablet, mobile broadband card or hotspot device and check emails and surf the web. For travel tips and even more information, be sure to visit sprint.com/travelingabroad **Monthly charges exclude taxes & Sprint Surcharges [incl.