Plants that are commonly used to repel mosquitoes are citronella, marigolds, catnip, horsemint, and ageratum, in addition to several others. Continue reading this article to learn about the many ways in which plants can be used to keep mosquitoes away from your living environment. Ad. 1 Plant citronella directly into the ground behind your other plants if you live in warm climates where frost does not occur. 2  Citronella can grow to a height of up to between 5 and 6 feet (1.52 and 1.82 meters) and forms in large, grassy clumps.
The oil found in these candles is derived from Citronella Grass (Cymbopogon nardus) , a plant native to southeast Asia and grown commercially in Sri Lanka, India, Burma, Indonesia and Java. Naturalized in tropical Asia, the plant is also grown as an ornamental in south Florida and southern California. 
Citronella oil is a natural product – a good ‘organic product’. Keep in mind that it is also 2 times more deadly than Roundup. Both products are relatively safe, but it is important to understand that this organic solution does have a risk. They did not study how the catnip extract worked on humans to repel mosquitoes. They did not determine if there are any side effects of having catnip extract on skin – does it irritate the skin, for example. I could only find one obscure product that contained catnip, and it contained 3 other active ingredients.
A: Despite the claims, citronella plants do not repel mosquitoes. Citronella grass, Cymbopogon nardus, and citrosa (scented geranium) contain citronella oil, which does repel mosquitoes. However, the plants don’t release enough oil into the air to repel insects. 
[…] Citronella plant retains mosquitoes away – garden myths Description: Citronella plant keeps mosquitoes away – a gardening fantasy you must recognize extra about. visit gardenmyths.com for extra gardening myths. They did not study how the catnip extract worked on humans to repel mosquitoes. They did not determine if there are any side effects of having catnip extract on skin – does it irritate the skin, for example. I could only find one obscure product that contained catnip, and it contained 3 other active ingredients.
The picture above shows the citronella plant; also called Pelargonium citrosum. This geranium is unrelated to the true citronella. Not only that but the scientific name of the plant is not even recognized as a valid name. It is a geranium (ie Pelargonium) and it sort of smells like citronella. They did not study how the catnip extract worked on humans to repel mosquitoes. They did not determine if there are any side effects of having catnip extract on skin – does it irritate the skin, for example. I could only find one obscure product that contained catnip, and it contained 3 other active ingredients.
Photos.com/Photos.com/Getty Images. A citronella geranium, also called mosquito geranium, is a species of plant that produces the oil used in citronella products. The plant fragrance releases when you crush or rub the leaves. A citronella geranium contains less than 1 percent citronella oil. The plant may not repel enough mosquitoes to be worth planting for this sole purpose. The citronella geranium is sensitive to frost and requires protection in cold weather
The citronella geranium is not to be confused with other mosquito plants, nor with the grass also known as citronella. Also, citronella oil does not come from P.citrosum. The above is paste from the source below. You can determine which citronella Plants you are refering to and follow the reference notes. 
This will help deter mosquitoes in areas of your home or yard that may not contain mosquito-repellent plants, in addition to keeping your skin protected away from home. 1  Apply crushed catnip, citronella, vanilla leaf, tea tree, lemon balm, clove, lavender, eucalyptus, sagebrush, or pineapple weed directly to your skin. 1 Plant citronella directly into the ground behind your other plants if you live in warm climates where frost does not occur. 2  Citronella can grow to a height of up to between 5 and 6 feet (1.52 and 1.82 meters) and forms in large, grassy clumps.
There are lots claims that fragrant plants such as catnip, citronella grass, beebalm, marigolds, lemon balm, lavender, geraniums, thyme, wormwood, rosemary and various mints, repel mosquitoes in the garden. They did not study how the catnip extract worked on humans to repel mosquitoes. They did not determine if there are any side effects of having catnip extract on skin – does it irritate the skin, for example. I could only find one obscure product that contained catnip, and it contained 3 other active ingredients.