In the US, the age of criminal responsibility is established by state law. Only 13 states have set minimum ages, which range from 6 to 12 years old. Most states rely on common law, which holds that from age 7 to age 14, children cannot be presumed to bear responsibility but can be held responsible.
Because the former head of the Youth Justice Board, Professor Rod Morgan, has called for the age at which children can be locked up –the so-called age of criminal responsibility – to be raised. The minimum age is currently 10 years in England, Wales and Northern Ireland and eight in Scotland.
At any age, you can be detained. But when you get to jail, your parents come get you. Its up to the police if you get charged or not. (IF YOU ARE CHARGED WITH A CRIME) then they will place you in handcuffs.
18.13 The age of criminal responsibility under the Crimes Act is generally consistent with standards in common law countries. In England, for example, there is a conclusive presumption that a child under 10 years of age cannot be guilty of a criminal offence.
At any age, you can be detained. But when you get to jail, your parents come get you. Its up to the police if you get charged or not. (IF YOU ARE CHARGED WITH A CRIME) then th … ey will place you in handcuffs.
There are a number of rights that apply specifically to children under the age of 17 who are arrested. Parents should be aware of these rights that begin as soon as the child is arrested. Just over 200,000 children are arrested in the UK each year, according to Home Office statistics. The average age of the children arrested is between 10 and 17 years old. Children at this age will usually not be aware of their rights when arrested.
This is how and why the term, Juvenile Delinquent fits... If a person is by themselves when committing the theft, and knowingly commits the theft, then they can be arrested-irregardless of age. If a child is unknowingly being used by another human to steal, then the other human will be arrested.
Police officers can hold someone under 12 years of age for only 6 hours. Juveniles between 12-16 years of age can be held for 12 hours if a non-violent crime is being investigated and for up to 24 hours if a violent crime is being investigated.