These studies indicate that the closest relatives to the citron, citrus medica-long-considered to have originated in India and one of the parents of the lemon-are species from New Ireland (off eastern New Guinea) and others from New Caledonia, said Mabberley. Our capacity to minimize the impact of citrus greening requires a very sound knowledge of the plants affected and their suitability as hosts of the disease and its two known insect vectors-one from Africa, the other from Asia.
Origin. The precise origin of the lemon tree (Citrus limon) is unknown, although some botanists believe it comes from Kashmir, north of India. Another possibility is that the lemon tree originated in southeast Asia, based on ancient documents that suggest a cultivation history of over 4,000 years. The Meyer Lemon Tree is named for Frank Meyer who introduced it to the United States from China in 1908. In the 1940s, the discovery that the Meyer Lemon Tree carried tristeza and tatter leaf viruses raised a red flag. In 1970, a new, virus free “Improved Meyer Lemon” was introduced.
The lemon is a small evergreen tree (Citrus limon) originally native to Asia, and is also the name of the tree's oval yellow … fruit I still like my answer of lemons better. :) just kidding. Lemons contain seeds of various sizes, and the lemon tree is particularly thorny.   A lemon is also a te … rm applied to a chronically faulty automobile, or other mechanical device.
The lemon (Citrus × limon) is a species of small evergreen tree native to Asia. The tree's ellipsoidal yellow fruit is used for culinary and non-culinary purposes throughout the world, primarily for its juice, which has both culinary and cleaning uses. The pulp and rind (zest) are also used in cooking and baking. The origin of the lemon is unknown, though lemons are thought to have first grown in Assam (a region in northeast India), northern Burma or China. A study of the genetic origin of the lemon reported it to be hybrid between bitter orange (sour orange) and citron
Lemon Tree (Fool's Garden song). From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia.  Lemon Tree  is a song by German band Fool's Garden from the album Dish of the Day, which was released as a single in 1995 and became a major international hit in 1996. The single reached number 26 in the UK charts and remained at number one for several weeks in Germany. It also reached number one in Ireland. Dustin the Turkey recorded a Christmas-parody called Christmas Tree. Taiwanese singer Tarcy Su (in both Mandarin and Cantonese) released covers of the song as did Korean singer Park Hye Kyung. In 2015, the song was sampled by Derrick Hoh in his song Lemon Tree.
10 Aug, 2012 where do 0. The lemon is a citrus fruit from the same family as the orange, lime, grapefruit and many others. Like other citrus fruits, the lemon grows on a tree of the same name. The fruit is well known for its strong sour taste, caused by a high level of citric acid, and it is used in a number of different culinary situations. The juice is used as a preservative, garnish and as a flavoring for many popular drinks. There are a number of different varieties of lemon, but most people are familiar with the Eureka lemon that is available in most grocery stores. Let’s find out where the lemon come from and where they are grown today.
The occurrence of citrus in Europe and Mideast were thought to have been natural occurring native trees and shrubs, but historians today believe that the ancestor of the citrus trees, Citrus medica L., was introduced by Alexander the Great from India into Greece, Turkey, and North Africa in the late 4th century BC. 
Properly caring for a grafted Meyer lemon tree facilitates fruit production in as little as two years. Seed grown trees fruit in four to seven years. Attractive, evergreen foliage and sporadic, fragrant flowering are among the reasons people like growing Meyer lemons. Production of the lemon fruit is an added bonus. 