Definition: The Individual Education Program Plan (IEP) is a written plan/program developed by the schools special education team with input from the parents and specifies the students academic goals and the method to obtain these goals. The plan also identifies transition arrangements. 
IEP Defined. The Individualized Educational Plan (IEP) is a plan or program developed to ensure that a child who has a disability identified under the law and is attending an elementary or secondary educational institution receives specialized instruction and related services. 
(a) General. As used in this part, the term individualized education program or IEP means a written statement for each child with a disability that is developed, reviewed, and revised in a meeting in accordance with Sec. Sec. 300.320 through 300.324, and that must include--. (1) That additional information be included in a child's IEP beyond what is explicitly required in section 614 of the Act; or. (2) The IEP Team to include information under one component of a child's IEP that is already contained under another component of the child's IEP.
The IEP, Individualized Education Program, is a written document that’s developed for each public school child who is eligible for special education. The IEP is created through a team effort and reviewed at least once a year. Before an IEP can be written, your child must be eligible for special education. By federal law, a multidisciplinary team must determine that (1) she’s a child with a disability and (2) she requires special education and related services to benefit from the general education program. Advertisement. 
A legacy resource from NICHCY. When a child receives special education services under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), he or she must have an Individualized Education Program (IEP). This is a written document listing, among other things, the special educational services that the child will receive. 
In Canada and the United Kingdom, an equivalent document is called an Individual Education Plan. An IEP defines the individualized objectives of a child who has been found with a disability, as defined by federal regulations. The IEP is intended to help children reach educational goals more easily than they otherwise would. An IEP is meant to ensure that students receive an appropriate placement, not only special education classrooms or special schools. It is meant to give the student a chance to participate in normal school culture and academics as much as is possible for that individual student.
The Individualized Education Program (IEP) is a written document required for each child who is eligible to receive special education services. It is provided to a student who has been determined first to have a disability and, second, to need special education services because of that disability. Individualized Education Programs, or IEPs as they are commonly called, are an integral part of the U.S. education system. They are the written documents that direct the provision of special education services to students with disabilities who need them.
In the U.S., an education program tailored to a particular student with a disability, the provision of which is mandated by law. Mandated by the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (q.v.), an IEP has two parts; the plan itself and the written document supporting it. 
If your child receives special education services, he must have an Individualized Education Program (IEP). That’s the law. An IEP is an important legal document. It spells out your child’s learning needs, the services the school will provide and how progress will be measured. A federal law called the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) requires that public schools create an IEP for every child receiving special education services. Kids from age 3 through high school graduation or a maximum age of 22 (whichever comes first) may be eligible for an IEP.
As used in this part, the term individualized education program or IEP means a written statement for each child with a disability that is developed, reviewed, and revised in a meeting in accordance with §§ 300.320 through 300.324, and that must include—. 