A: Ativan (lorazepam) is a benzodiazepine drug that acts as an anxiolytic (anti-anxiety drug), amnesic, sedative/hypnotic, anticonvulsant, and muscle relaxant. It's used for the short-term treatment of anxiety, insomnia, acute seizures, and sedation of hospitalized or aggressive patients. When you first start lorazepam, your doctor may slowly increase your dose to avoid side effects. The dose of lorazepam may be lower if you are elderly or debilitated. Take lorazepam with liquid such as a glass of water, with or without food.
When taking Ativan for insomnia due to anxiety, the recommended starting dose is 2 mg to 4 mg once daily at bedtime. The dose of Ativan 速 (lorazepam) that your healthcare provider recommends will vary depending on a number of factors, including: As always, do not adjust your dosage unless your healthcare provider specifically instructs you to do so. The recommended starting dose of Ativan for anxiety treatment is Ativan 1 mg two to three times daily. F
Lorazepam is used for the short-term treatment of anxiety, insomnia, acute seizures including status epilepticus, and sedation of hospitalized patients, as well as sedation of aggressive patients. Due to tolerance and dependence, lorazepam is recommended for short-term use, up to two to four weeks only. 
When taking lorazepam for insomnia due to anxiety, the recommended starting dose is lorazepam 2 mg to 4 mg once daily at bedtime. The dose of lorazepam (Ativan 速) that your healthcare provider recommends will vary depending on a number of factors, including: The recommended starting lorazepam dosage for anxiety treatment is lorazepam 1 mg two to three times daily
INDICATIONS. Ativan (lorazepam) is indicated for the management of anxiety disorders or for the short-term relief of the symptoms of anxiety or anxiety associated with depressive symptoms. Anxiety or tension associated with the stress of everyday life usually does not require treatment with an anxiolytic
The recommended starting lorazepam dose for anxiety treatment is lorazepam 1 mg two to three times daily. For insomnia due to anxiety, the recommended starting dose is lorazepam 2 mg to 4 mg once daily at bedtime. Elderly people may be more sensitive to the effects of Ativan. The recommended starting lorazepam dosage for anxiety treatment is lorazepam 1 mg two to three times daily. The dose of lorazepam (Ativan 速) that your healthcare provider recommends will vary depending on a number of factors, including:
Take lorazepam exactly as prescribed by your doctor. Lorazepam oral tablets are available in strengths of 0.5 mg, 1 mg, and 2 mg. Your doctor may prescribe lorazepam to be taken 2 to 3 times a day for conditions such as anxiety, or once daily for conditions such as insomnia. When you first start lorazepam, your doctor may slowly increase your dose to avoid side effects. The dose of lorazepam may be lower if you are elderly or debilitated. Take lorazepam with liquid such as a glass of water, with or without food.
A: Lorazepam is a medication that is used to treat anxiety, sleep disorders, and seizures. It is in the family of medications called benzodiazepines which work by enhancing the effects of GABA, a chemical in the brain, causing a calming effect. When you first start lorazepam, your doctor may slowly increase your dose to avoid side effects. The dose of lorazepam may be lower if you are elderly or debilitated. Take lorazepam with liquid such as a glass of water, with or without food.
Lorazepam Dosage for Anxiety. Elderly people may be more sensitive to the effects of Ativan. For the elderly, the recommended starting dose is lorazepam 0.5 mg to 1 mg twice daily. The recommended starting lorazepam dosage for anxiety treatment is lorazepam 1 mg two to three times daily. The dose of lorazepam (Ativan 速) that your healthcare provider recommends will vary depending on a number of factors, including: