Paramecium caudatum is a species of unicellular organisms belonging to the genus Paramecium of the phylum Ciliophora. They can reach 0.25mm in length and are covered with minute hair-like organelles called cilia. The cilia are used in locomotion and feeding. 
They move with the help of microscopic hair-like structures called cilia, which act like oars to push them through the water. They swim by rotating slowly and changing directions often. If the Paramecium comes upon an obstacle, it stops, swims backwards, and then angles itself forward on a slightly different course. the paramecium uses cilia, which are tiny hair-like structures, for locomotion. on the other hand, amoeba uses pseudopodia, which are extensions of the cell's cytoplasm, to mo … ve.
See also: Videos of Paramecium. Paramecium is a ciliate protozoan. Ciliates’ bodies are covered with fine cytoplasmic hair-like structures called cilia. Flickering movements of the cilia propel the organism through the water and also create feeding currents. Paramecium is a ciliate. In describing its structure, comparisons will be made with amoeba. It is suggested, therefore, that amoeba is studied first
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Paramecium uses cilia, which are like tiny hairs all around the organism, to pull itself through water. Sometimes, not all the cilia move in the same direction, so the cell spirals as it pulls itself through the water. 
They have a mouth in their cell; their cilia are used to sweep up the food along with some water into their cell mouth, and then the food is transferred into the oral groove. The main food items of paramecium are bacteria, algae, and yeast cells. • Amoeba and paramecium are unicellular organisms described under different genera. • Amoeba moves by using pseudopodia while the locomotion of paramecium is performed using cilia.
Cilia help the Paramecium move as well as feed. When the Paramecia feed, it does so by drawing its food into a funnel-shaped opening called the oral groove that is lined with cilia. The oral groove is like a mouth, taking food in with the help of cilia, which direct and move the food inward. the paramecium uses cilia, which are tiny hair-like structures, for locomotion. on the other hand, amoeba uses pseudopodia, which are extensions of the cell's cytoplasm, to mo … ve.
A paramecium is a small one celled (unicellular) living organism that can move, digest food, and reproduce. They belong to the kingdom of Protista, which is a group (family) of similar living micro-organisms. Micro-organism means they are a very small living cell. 
Describe the structures a Paramecium uses for movement. 4. Sketch a diagram of a Paramecium in your lab notebook. Label the cilia. 5. Clean your slide and coverslip and use them for the next section of the lab. Euglena. 1. Put a drop from the Euglena culture jar on the slide and cover the drop with the coverslip. 2. 
Paramecium (parr-ə-MEE-sh(ee-)əm, /ˌpaerəˈmiːʃⁱəm/ ˌpærəˈmiːʃⁱəm or-parr-ə-mee-see, /əm/) ˌpaerəˈmiːsiəm ˌpærəˈmiːsiəm is a genus of unicellular, ciliated protozoan commonly studied as a representative of the. ciliate group The parts are as follows: 1) food vacuoles 2) micronucleus 3) oral groove 4) gullet 5) anal pore 6) contractile vacuole 7) macronucleus 8) cilia. Species of Paramecium range in size from 50 to 330 micrometres (0.0020 to 0.0130 in) in length. Cells are typically ovoid, elongate, foot-or cigar-shaped.
Paramecia feed on microorganisms like bacteria, algae, and yeasts. To gather food, the Paramecium uses its cilia to sweep prey organisms, along with some water, through the oral groove, and into the mouth opening. The parts are as follows: 1) food vacuoles 2) micronucleus 3) oral groove 4) gullet 5) anal pore 6) contractile vacuole 7) macronucleus 8) cilia. Species of Paramecium range in size from 50 to 330 micrometres (0.0020 to 0.0130 in) in length. Cells are typically ovoid, elongate, foot-or cigar-shaped.