Horses speed varies with their stride length, body build, and other factors, but here is a basic idea of how fast-- in miles per hour-- horses move at their various gaits: Wal … k: Roughly 3-4 MPH. A pleasure show horse can go as slow as 2 mph. Gaited horses-- who do not trot-- can do a 'running walk' as fast as 15 mph. Trot: The trot is roughly 8-10 MPH. Again, a shorter striding horse could trot slower, and a horse with a long stride could move faster. Canter/Lope: 10-17 MPH
The time it takes for a horse to run a mile depends on it's speed, level of training and fitness and how much weight it is carrying. A Thoroughbred can run a mile in roughly 2 … minutes, while it usually takes other breeds 3 or more minutes. Gaited horses-- who do not trot-- can do a 'running walk' as fast as 15 mph. Trot: The trot is roughly 8-10 MPH. Again, a shorter striding horse could trot slower, and a horse with a long stride could move faster.
The common speed is 30mph. Answer 2: A horse that is not bred for racing can typically gallop at speeds of 15 to 25 mph. A horse bred for racing can typically gallop at speeds … of 25 to 45 mph. Confidence votes 30.2K. This depends upon the breed of the horse, the weight of the load carried/pulled by the horse, the condition the horse is in and the terrain the horse is running over.
In general, a warm-blooded horse in good condition with no rider can gallop across even terrain for a couple of miles; the same horse under the same conditions can canter for 4-5 miles. However, at the end of this, the horse is likely to be very tired and unable to run much anymore. Confidence votes 30.2K. This depends upon the breed of the horse, the weight of the load carried/pulled by the horse, the condition the horse is in and the terrain the horse is running over.
2 Answers. Answers 0 How far and fast a horse runs in one day really depends on the condition and breed of horse, as well as the terrain and weather conditions. That being said it is possible for some horses to travel as far as 60 miles or more in a day, but a more average distance is around 20-30 miles a day. Source(s): http://www.ultimatehorsesite.com/info/farandfast.h... Mar 2nd, 2011 at 3:51 AM Reply. ginefer 0 20 to 30 mph the top speed is 40 mph. Answers. How far and fast a horse runs in one day really depends on the condition and breed of horse, as well as the terrain and weather conditions.
They cannot sustain this pace for long, though. A horse can gallop a couple of miles at full steam, but the same horse can canter (or lope) much farther. Trotting (either a fast trot or a jog trot) isn't a bad way to travel, but you don't get very far very fast. A horse that isn't in shape is more susceptible to injury as well. That being said, distances a horse can travel vary depending on the size of the party, mounts, weather, terrain, and condition of the roads. Medieval people traveled with everything they needed following in carts behind them.
Endurance riders will ride nonstop over longer distances, but not at a run. Endurance riders do most of their riding at a brisk trot, interspersed with walking and cantering. And the horses are carefully monitored, with mandatory vet checks, and a vet can pull a horse out of the ride at any time that it shows distress. How far a horse CAN run non-stop is a moot point, because nobody in their right mind will run a horse until he can't run anymore.
How far or how long can horses actually run in a day?” The first place the Newton Falls Public Library staff checked was in the library’s collection of horse books. “I was watching a western and in it the horses seemed able to run a long time. How far or how long can horses actually run in a day?” The ...