The story of gold is as rich and complex as the metal itself. Wars have been fought for it; love has been declared with it. Ancient Egyptian hieroglyphs portray gold as the brilliance of the sun; modern astronomers use mirrors coated with gold to capture images of the heavens. 
Gold has many uses in the production of glass. The most basic use in glassmaking is that of a pigment. A small amount of gold suspended in the glass when it is annealed produces a rich ruby color. Gold is also used when making specialty glass for climate controlled buildings and cases. About 78% of the gold consumed each year is used in the manufacture of jewelry. Special properties of gold make it perfect for manufacturing jewelry. These include: very high luster; desirable yellow color; tarnish resistance; ability to be drawn into wires, hammered into sheets or cast into shapes.
Common Uses of Gold. Gold in Jewelry: Until recently, jewelry constituted nearly all the demand for gold and stood far and away as the most common use of gold. The last several years has seen a rapid rise in the demand of gold as an investment however and today jewelry represents ‘only’ 45% of total yearly demand.
Uses of Gold. 1  Some investment and collectors coins are still made from gold. 2  Gold is used in all different types of jewelry. 3  Some gold salts are used in medicine as they have anti-inflammatory properties. 4  In modern times, injectable gold has been proven to help to reduce the pain and swelling of rheumatoid arthritis and tuberculosis. 5  Colloidal ... 1 Gold use to be used to measure how much currency was worth until the world moved to finite money. 2  Gold is used in all different types of jewelry. 3  The higher the content of gold in a piece, the higher the caret rating. 4  Pure gold is not used as jewelry because it is too soft and would be damaged and misshapen too easily.
Modern uses of gold in dentistry is usually in the form of white gold or gold alloys and include areas such as bridges, fillings, crowns, and orthodontic appliances thanks to gold being a bio-compatible metal. Gold in Jewelry: Until recently, jewelry constituted nearly all the demand for gold and stood far and away as the most common use of gold. The last several years has seen a rapid rise in the demand of gold as an investment however and today jewelry represents ‘only’ 45% of total yearly demand.
Gold in Investing: The second most popular use of gold is in the form of investment through various tools such as ETFs, futures trading, and bars/coin investing with 45% of yearly demand going way of investors. Gold in Jewelry: Until recently, jewelry constituted nearly all the demand for gold and stood far and away as the most common use of gold. The last several years has seen a rapid rise in the demand of gold as an investment however and today jewelry represents ‘only’ 45% of total yearly demand.
Silver has traditionally served, with gold, as the metal used in coins. As a precious metal, silver is rare and valuable, making it a convenient store of wealth. In the past, people accumulated their wealth in the form of silver coins; today, they invest in investment-grade silver bullion. Silver, the white metal, has an illustrious reputation for its use in jewelry and coins, but today, silver's primary use is industrial. Whether in cell phones or solar panels, new innovations are constantly emerging to take advantage of silver's unique properties.
Gold has been used to make ornamental objects and jewelry for thousands of years. Gold nuggets found in a stream are very easy to work and were probably one of the first metals used by humans. Today, most of the gold that is newly mined or recycled is used in the manufacture of jewelry. About 78% of the gold consumed each year is used in the manufacture of jewelry. Special properties of gold make it perfect for manufacturing jewelry. These include: very high luster; desirable yellow color; tarnish resistance; ability to be drawn into wires, hammered into sheets or cast into shapes.
1 Pure gold is not used as jewelry because it is too soft and would be damaged and misshapen too easily. 2  Some gold salts are used in medicine as they have anti-inflammatory properties. 3  In modern times, injectable gold has been proven to help to reduce the pain and swelling of rheumatoid arthritis and tuberculosis. 1 Gold use to be used to measure how much currency was worth until the world moved to finite money. 2  Gold is used in all different types of jewelry. 3  The higher the content of gold in a piece, the higher the caret rating. 4 
1 Gold is used in all different types of jewelry. 2  The higher the content of gold in a piece, the higher the caret rating. 3  Pure gold is not used as jewelry because it is too soft and would be damaged and misshapen too easily. 4  Some gold salts are used in medicine as they have anti-inflammatory properties. 1 Gold use to be used to measure how much currency was worth until the world moved to finite money. 2  Gold is used in all different types of jewelry. 3  The higher the content of gold in a piece, the higher the caret rating. 4