Parsley. One of the most common and versatile herbs used in Western cooking, parsley has a light peppery flavor that complements other seasonings. It's most often used in sauces, salads and sprinkled over dishes at the end of cooking for a flash of green and a fresh taste. Thyme. One of the most popular herbs in American and European cooking, thyme can be paired with nearly any kind of meat, poultry, fish, or vegetable. To use fresh thyme, peel off as many of the leaves as you can from the woody stem by running your fingers along the stem.
Parsley, cilantro, and basil have all stayed nice and fresh with this method. :). Dried herbs are best when used with oil (or butter, fat) or water-this way they can infuse the oil or cooking liquid. Make sure to crush the herbs with your fingers or saute them a bit to wake them up. Crushing a bunch of them in a mortar and pestle also works very well. I tend to use more when I use a dried herb
In the vegetarian realm, it may be used to flavor vegetable stews, herb breads, and tomato soups or sauces. SAFFRON, by far the most expensive of all spices, is derived from the dried, brilliant-yellow stigma of the autumn crocus. It lends its color to any food it touches; its flavor, on the other hand, is delicate. Volumes can be written on the healing aspect of herbs (in fact see our review of the terrific book, Healing Spices), the focus here is culinary. This section will give a brief overview of those seasonings most commonly used to flavor global whole food recipes.
Most herbs can be found dried or fresh and can be used either way with ease. Herbs are considered ro be the leaves and greener parts of the plant-the seeds, bark, roots, etc. are normally considered a spice. Some plants are both. :). Fresh herbs are great for garnishes and they provide bold flavor. Dried herbs are best when used with oil (or butter, fat) or water-this way they can infuse the oil or cooking liquid. Make sure to crush the herbs with your fingers or saute them a bit to wake them up.
1 Most go a very long way and are at their optimal flavor for up to a year, after which they begin losing their potency. 2  Keep dried herbs and spices in a place in your kitchen that is away from heat and moisture. 3  When substituting fresh herbs for dry, use about three times the amount of fresh herb as the dry. Volumes can be written on the healing aspect of herbs (in fact see our review of the terrific book, Healing Spices), the focus here is culinary. This section will give a brief overview of those seasonings most commonly used to flavor global whole food recipes.
Herbs often used in Thai cooking Many herbs and spices used in Thai cuisine have beneficial medicinal properties.Here are some examples. Chili: Phrik in Thai Chili is an erect, branched, shrub-like herb with fruits used as garnishing and flavouring in Thai dishes. There are many different species. 
Herbs refer to the leafy green parts of a plant (either fresh or dried), while a  spice  is a product from another part of the plant (usually dried), including seeds, berries, bark, roots and fruits. In American botanical English the word herb is also used as a synonym of  herbaceous plant . Herbs have a variety of uses including culinary, medicinal, and in some cases spiritual usage. General usage of the term herb differs between culinary herbs and medicinal herbs. In medicinal or spiritual use any of the parts of the plant might be considered herbs, including leaves, roots, flowers, seeds, resin, root bark, inner bark (and cambium), berries and sometimes the pericarp or other portions of the plant.
A tough, woody herb with a pungent flavor, rosemary's spiky leaves can be used fresh or dried for long cooking in soups, meats, stews or sauces. Because the flavor is strong, it's best to add rosemary sparingly at first and more if needed. Thyme. One of the most popular herbs in American and European cooking, thyme can be paired with nearly any kind of meat, poultry, fish, or vegetable. To use fresh thyme, peel off as many of the leaves as you can from the woody stem by running your fingers along the stem.
In general use, herbs are any plants used for food, flavoring, medicine, or perfume. Culinary use typically distinguishes herbs from spices. In medicinal or spiritual use any of the parts of the plant might be considered herbs, including leaves, roots, flowers, seeds, resin, root bark, inner bark (and cambium), berries and sometimes the pericarp or other portions of the plant.
Culinary herbs are distinguished from vegetables in that, like spices, they are used in small amounts and provide flavor rather than substance to food. Herbs can be perennials such as thyme or lavender, biennials such as parsley, or annuals like basil. In medicinal or spiritual use any of the parts of the plant might be considered herbs, including leaves, roots, flowers, seeds, resin, root bark, inner bark (and cambium), berries and sometimes the pericarp or other portions of the plant.