Many rare or threatened plant and animal species occur within the Snowy Mountains. The Kosciuszko National Park is home to one of Australia's most threatened species (the corroboree frog). The endangered mountain pygmy possum and the more common dusky antechinus are located in the high country of the park. The Snowy Mountains, known informally as  The Snowies , is an IBRA subregion and the highest mountain range on the island country/continent of Australia. It contains the Australian mainland's highest mountain, Mount Kosciuszko, which reaches to a height of 2,228 m (7,310 ft) above sea level
The Snowy Mountains, known locally as The Snowies, are Australia'a highest mountain range and are located in southern New South Wales. The Snowy Mountains contain Australian mainland's highest mountain, Mount Kosciuszko. Snow normally falls the most during June, July and Early August. 
Like other small mammals in the alpine region, the pygmy possum survives the winter under a protective layer of snow. Among the more colourful species of the area are the endangered yellow and black corroboree frog, the red chested flame robin and the wingless grasshopper. Groups of enthusiasts introduced brown and rainbow trout to the fast flowing streams of the Snowy Mountains in the late 19th century. Most plants are long lived perennials and these are able to winter-over under the snow. The most obvious plants during winter are the native Snow Gums. Their low, broad branches are able to bend under the weight of winter snow.
Alpine plants are plants that grow in the alpine climate, which occurs at high elevation and above the tree line. Alpine plants grow together as a plant community in alpine tundra. Alpine plants are not a single taxon. Rather, many different plant species live in the alpine environment. These include perennial grasses, sedges, forbs, cushion plants, mosses, and lichens. Alpine plants must adapt to the harsh conditions of the alpine environment, which include low temperatures, dryness, ultraviolet radiation, and a short growing season. Alpine plants occur in a tundra: a type of natural region or biome that does not contain trees. Alpine tundra occurs in mountains worldwide. It transitions to subalpine forests below the tree line; stunted forests occurring at the forest-tundra ecotone are known as Krummholz.
Geography. The Snowy Mountains make up the highest Australian mountain range. They are located in southern New South Wales and are part of the larger mountain mass called the Australian Alps and the Great Dividing Range. The highest mountain in Australia, Mount Kosciuszko (2 228 metres), is part of the Snowy Mountains. Flora means the plant life of an area. Fauna means the animal life of an area. The Snowy Mountains are covered by thick vegetation. In October and November, after the snow has melted, different types of wildflowers cover the mountains slopes.
We put together a list of animals in the Smokies and decided to follow it up with a list of threatened and endangered species in the Smoky Mountains. We pulled the items on the list from the Great Smoky Mountains National Park website. The list includes plants and animals. There are so many plants and animals in the Smoky Mountains. Flowering plants in the Smokies reach a total of over 1,600 species. The Smoky Mountains also feature 100 native tree species and 100 native shrub species.
With the help of WildEarth Guardians and Center for Native Ecosystems, based in Denver, we've pulled together a list of endangered plants and animals in the Rocky Mountains and neighboring Great Plains that the federal government has either protected under the Endangered Species Act or are on the official waiting list. 
During summer, colourful wild flowers carpet the area while in the winter there is a landscape blanketed by snow. Most plants are long lived perennials and these are able to winter-over under the snow. The most obvious plants during winter are the native Snow Gums. Their low, broad branches are able to bend under the weight of winter snow. The wildflowers in summer produce a tapestry of colour in white, yellow, purple and orange
Because mountain habitats can change quickly as elevations increase, they are often home to a greater diversity of plants and animals than nearby lowlands. On some mountains, especially at medium elevations in warmer latitudes, many species are endemic, meaning that they are found nowhere else in the world. Securing mountain ecosystems within parks and other protected areas can help to preserve their valuable plants and animals for future generations. Protected areas have proved key to the preservation of some species, such as the mountain gorillas of the Virunga Mountains in the Democratic Republic of Congo.