Capabilities. Child prodigies are often very young. They are mostly gifted with abilities and are able to perform them at the level of a highly trained adult in a very demanding field of endeavor. This is either because of a latent talent within the child or inheritance of the child's family line. 
Full Definition of PRODIGY. 1. a: a portentous event: omen b: something extraordinary or inexplicable. 2. a: an extraordinary, marvelous, or unusual accomplishment, deed, or event b: a highly talented child or youth. See prodigy defined for English-language learners. See prodigy defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
On the other hand, adults we classify as creative geniuses are individuals who have invented or discovered something new, something that changes their domain. The skill of being a child prodigy is qualitatively different from the 'skill' of being an adult creative genius. Countless child prodigies lose interest in their area of talent and drop out; others become experts in their area as adults.
prod•i•gy. 1. a person, esp. a child or young person, having extraordinary talent or ability: a musical prodigy. 2. something that excites wonder or amazement. 3. something abnormal or monstrous. 4. Archaic. something regarded as of prophetic significance. 
child prodigy noun [C]. › a ​young ​child who has very ​great ​ability in something: A ​child ​prodigy, he made his first ​professional ​tour as a ​pianist at the ​age of six. (Definition of child prodigy from the Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press). 
child prodigy noun [C]. › a ​young ​child who has very ​great ​ability in something: A ​child ​prodigy, he made his first ​professional ​tour as a ​pianist at the ​age of six. (Definition of child prodigy from the Cambridge Advanced Learners Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press). 
Mozart started composing at age 3. In psychology research literature, the term child prodigy is defined as person under the age of ten who produces meaningful output in some domain to the level of an adult expert performer. Child prodigies are rare, and in some domains there are no child prodigies at all
View. comments. An 11-year-old child prodigy has started his first semester in college. Accepted when he was only 10, Carson Huey-You is attending Texas Christian University majoring in quantum physics.
Updated May 20, 2015, 6:45 AM. Joey Alexander, the most recent child prodigy to be in the news, shows us the positive side of young genius. He clearly gets joy from playing jazz. You can see it in how he moves as he plays, and how he talks. The skill of being a child prodigy is qualitatively different from the 'skill' of being an adult creative genius. Countless child prodigies lose interest in their area of talent and drop out; others become experts in their area as adults.