The number one threat preventing black professionals from standing on integrity, honesty and truthfulness is economic terrorism: I define economic terrorism as follows: Economic terrorism is defined as the perceived/verbalized or written threat of loss of income.
A broad internet literature search was performed by entering key words in widely used internet search engines such as Google and Yahoo. Key words used were “terrorism” (plus derivatives such as “terror”, “terrorist, etc)” and “definition” (plus derivatives such as “define”, “defining”, etc).
The Geneva Center for Security Policydefines economic terrorism as, “varied, coordinated and sophisticated, or massive destabilizing actions [undertaken by transnational or non-state actors] to disrupt the economic stability of a state, groups of states, or society.” […]. RSS feed for comments on this post.
Nations had to come to agreement on a definition of the term “terrorism”, for without a consensus on what constituted terrorism, nations could not unite against it. He spoke of the importance of ratifying the existing counter-terrorism treaties and reviewed his country’s participation.
Misuse of the definition of terrorism can have far-reaching social and political consequences. Political parties and religions can be outlawed and persecuted. An individual who is convincingly defined as a terrorist loses many civil rights.
Contrary to economic warfare which is undertaken by states against other states, economic terrorism would be undertaken by transnational or non-state actors.
It does not use a precise definition but calls events “terrorism” to catch the attention of the public (eg “school bullying terrorism”, “terrorism in the western suburbs of Sydney”, “economic terrorism”, “West Indies cricket pace attack terrorism”).
Terrorism can dramatically influence the world, as shown by the far-reaching and prolonged effects of the attacks in New York on 11 th September 2001. The definition of terrorism will affect communication and response to this issue and so have consequences for society and politics.
The term economic terrorism is strictly defined to indicate an attempt at economic destabilization by a group. More precisely, in 2005 the Geneva Centre for Security Policy defined economic terrorism in the following terms: Contrary to  economic warfare  which is undertaken by states against other states, economic terrorism would be undertaken by transnational or non-state actors.