Descriptions. Amyl nitrite is related to the nitrate medicines and is used by inhalation to relieve the pain of angina attacks. It works by relaxing blood vessels and increasing the supply of blood and oxygen to the heart while reducing its workload. On the street, this medicine and others like it are sometimes called poppers.. They have been used by some people to cause a high or to improve sex. Use in this way is not recommended. Amyl nitrite can cause serious harmful effects if too much is inhaled.
A Stacy Wiegman, PharmD, Pharmacy, answered. Amyl nitrite relaxes the smooth muscle that makes up your arteries and veins to allow increases in the flow of blood and oxygen to your heart. The chest pain that you feel during angina is caused by reduced blood flow to your heart. This happens if your heart does not get enough oxygen. 
Poppers is a slang term given to the chemical class called alkyl nitrites that are inhaled for recreational purposes, especially in preparation for sex. 
Amyl nitrite is classified as an inhalant and is a vasodilator which means it dilates blood vessels. It is one of the nitrite class of drugs. Others include butyl nitrite, isobutyl nitrite and the nitrates such as nitro-glycerine. Amyl nitrite is used in medicine for some cardiac medical procedures. 
Poppers. Amyl Nitrate. Refers to a small, usually brown bottle of solvents or the solvents themselves, which are sniffed, usually during homosexual sex by the bottom. Amyl Nitrate boosts blood pressure, relaxing the anus and making anal sex more comoftable. Also known as sna
Amyl Nitrate is often used to obtain an erection because it dilates the blood vessels. Signs of an overdose are bluish-colored lips, fingernails, or palms of hands; dizziness (extreme) or fainting;seizures, feeling of extreme pressure in head; shortness of breath; unusual tiredness or weakness; weak and fast heartbeat. 
Poppers is slang for a variety of alkyl nitrites, particularly amyl nitrite. Poppers are available over-the-counter and come in small bottles. Amyl nitrites are generally used in air fresheners and video head cleaners, but are used as a recreational drug to increase sexual arousal. Poppers relax muscles such as the sphincter of the anus, which can make anal sex less painful. Poppers also cause blood vessels to dilate, which drops blood pressure and increases heart rate (amyl nitrite was originally used to treat angina and cyanide poisoning).
poppers (amyl nitrite, butyl nitrate, isobutyl nitrite, TNT, liquid gold, rush etc.) Amyl/butyl nitrite (poppers) is a powerful drug that can give you an almighty burst of dizzy energy for a couple of minutes. 
Amyl Nitrate. Liquid in a small brown bottle that used to be sold at head shops for 5 bucks a pop. Now that I think about it the stuff really does smell like crushed ants. A bottle mixed with bong water will make your brain feel like it is in a vice (without the pain). Just make sure to be sitting down prior. 