Confidence votes 10.0K. Eliza is a Biblical name, not a Muslim one. Eliza is a Christian name, and comes from the Bible. Another answer: Eliza is a shortened form of Elizabeth, which is Hebrew in origin and means, oath of God.. The only Elizabeth in the Bible is the mother of John the Baptist (Luke 1:13).
English name. In English, the name Eliza means-My God is bountiful. God of plenty. A diminutive of Elizabeth frequently used as an independent name. Famous bearer: Eliza Doolittle, the Cockney heroine of George Bernard Shaws play Pygmalion, from which the musical My Fair Lady was derived.. Other origins for the name Eliza include-English, Israeli, Hebrew, French.The name Eliza is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-My God is bountiful
Hebrew Meaning: The name Eliza is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Eliza is: or Elizabeth, from Elisheba, meaning either oath of God, or God is satisfaction. Also a diminutive of Bethia (daughter or worshipper of God), and of Bethany, a New Testament village near Jerusalem. The name Eliza is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Eliza is: My God is bountiful. God of plenty. A frequently used as an independent name. Famous bearer: Eliza Doolittle, the Cockney heroine of George Bernard Shaw's play 'Pygmalion', from which the musical 'My Fair Lady' was derived.
Greek Meaning: The name Eliza is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Eliza is: From the Hebrew Elisheba, meaning either oath of God, or God is satisfaction. Famous bearer: Old Testament Elizabeth was mother of John the Baptist and one of the earliest known bearers of this name; Queen Elizabeth II. The name Eliza is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Eliza is: My God is bountiful. God of plenty. A frequently used as an independent name. Famous bearer: Eliza Doolittle, the Cockney heroine of George Bernard Shaw's play 'Pygmalion', from which the musical 'My Fair Lady' was derived.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Nazeer Malik Pakistan; The word Eliza is neither an Arabic name and nor any known word it is only derived form the Elizabeth (7 September 1533 - 24 March 1603) was Queen regnant of England and Queen regnant of Ireland from 17 November 1558 until her death. The name Naila is an Islamic name its origin is Greek and Arabic. The meaning of the name is the achiever, the winner, as well successful. The name Naila should be spelled as … Nyla because of its pronunciation.
Eliza is a female name in English, a shortened form of Elizabeth. It may also be used as or a variant of the Hebrew name Aliza, עַלִיזָה meaning joyful. Closely related variant names are Elza, Elisa and the French form Élise. élise 
Origin of the name Eliza: Short form of Elizabeth (God is my oath) that is now commonly bestowed as an independent given name. Eliza Dolittle was the name of the central character in George Bernard Shaw's play Pygmalion (1913), on which the popular musical and film My Fair Lady is based. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. One of my best friends' names is Eliza. I think it is a cute, classic name. People constantly mistake her name for just Liza, but that doesn't bother her too much. There's an old song called Little Liza Jane, and I didn't like the name Eliza when I was a kid.
Eliza /eli-za/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Eliza is God is my oath. Short form of Elizabeth, first used as an independent name in the 16th century. Literary: name of the escaping slave in Uncle Tom's Cabin, and Cockney flower girl Eliza Dolittle in My Fair Lady.