Tips For Hiring The Best Asphalt Driveway Contractor. Asphalt driveways are a very cost effective and popular choice in driveway options. However, it is very important that you hire a competent and experienced asphalt paving contractor in order to get the results you want. There are two major forms of base for an asphalt driveway. There is coarse asphalt and crushed gravel. If you opt for a crushed gravel based, it should have a 6 to 10 inch thickness.
To calculate the asphalt driveway cost, you just need to take a measurement of length x width to get the approximate square foot area, and multiply it by the average cost of $3-$4/square foot. Example: A driveway that’s 10′ wide and 60′ long equals 600 square feet. At that approximate cost, a driveway contractor will dig out 4-6 inches of whatever you already have in place, replace it with clean driveway gravel and grade it to a level and compacted surface. After that, they will put down 3-4 inches of base asphalt, and a final coating of 1-2 inches of topcoat.
Your driveway, would be roughly $1,000 of asphalt assuming 3 inches thick and $140/ton. Again, this is just an estimate, because your driveway is small, the unit price will likely be higher. Let’s say it’s $1,500 in paving and then likely another $1,000 to $2,000 in prep work. If you budget around $3,000 you’d likely be safe.
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Asphaltic Concrete Driveway Installation project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install an Asphaltic Concrete Driveway ranges between $5.08 - $6.96 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1
Tell us about your project. Use our quote calculator to get an estimate of what your asphalt driveway and/or project will cost. Please note that this calculator can only give you an indication of the cost, it should not be considered a fixed quote. 
Or, if you’d rather speak to a person, you can call Chris directly on 0425 759 358. In some cases, your asphalt area will be narrower at one end. This is often the case with driveways where it might be two car widths at the edge of a garage, or car-port, but only one car width at the street. In those cases, your driveway might be 10%-15% cheaper than quoted on this page.
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Concrete Driveway Installation project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Concrete Driveway ranges between $4.56 - $6.34 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. 
The foundation of any asphalt driveway is the base. There are two major forms of base for an asphalt driveway. There is coarse asphalt and crushed gravel. If you opt for a crushed gravel based, it should have a 6 to 10 inch thickness. The thicker your base is, the more weight the asphalt driveway will be able to hold
600 x $3-$4 = $1,800-$2,400 (estimated asphalt driveway cost). At that approximate cost, a driveway contractor will dig out 4-6 inches of whatever you already have in place, replace it with clean driveway gravel and grade it to a level and compacted surface. After that, they will put down 3-4 inches of base asphalt, and a final coating of 1-2 inches of topcoat. * Note that the any asphalt driveway cost calculators you use online are only going to be rough estimates. The only way to get an accurate cost quote, is to get quotes from local contractors
Average Cost for Asphalt Paving. The average cost of an asphalt paving project is $6,393. The final cost of a project will depend on the square footage that needs to be paved, whether or not permits are required, and whether any obstructions like trees need to be removed before the project can begin.