Eastern Screech Owl Breeding Facts. 1  Generally, they find their nests into the trees. 2  However, sometimes left out nests by other birds like woodpeckers, also becomes the habitat of eastern screech owls. 3  While mostly they build nests in the trees, these owls are very fond of inhabiting in the wooden boxes. Eastern Screech Owl Facts. 1  The length of an adult owl is about 16 – 25 cm (6.3 – 10 in). 2  These species weigh around 120 – 244 g (4.3 – 8.6 oz). 3  These birds have a brown-rusty king of a plumage with some exceptions of red color too. 4  They tend to camouflage themselves in the trees by sitting like a rock solid. 5  These birds have a very short tail; ..
Eastern screech-owls eat the most varied diet of any North American owl. Their diet includes large evening active insects, like moths and katydids, crayfish, earthworms, amphibians, reptiles, small mammals, like mice and bats, and small birds. Eastern screech-owls are found throughout much of eastern North America, from the Rocky Mountains in the West to the Atlantic coast and from Florida and southern Texas in the south as far north as southern Canada. (Gehlbach, 1995).
This is the species that gave the Screech Owls their name. Not only do Eastern Screech Owls screech, they also bark, hoot, rasp, chuckle, and whinny. Their quavering, low-pitched trill has been described as “haunting” and is often used to “set the mood” in television and movie night scenes. 
Similar to other owls, the screech owl females are larger than the males of their species. They have a compact size and shape. The screech owls are small and agile. They are about 7 to 10 inches tall and have a wingspan of about 18 to 24 inches. They have prominent, wide-set feather tufts with bright yellow eyes. 
1 The Eastern Screech-owl is slightly smaller than the Western Screech-owl. 2  This owl's color ranges from gray to brown to reddish. 3  The chicks in a nest may be different colors. 4  Dead tree snags are important to cavity nesters like these owls. 
The eastern screech owl (Megascops asio) is a small owl that is relatively common in Eastern North America, from Mexico to Canada. While eastern screech owls have lived for over 20 years in captivity, wild birds seldom, if ever, live that long. Mortality rates of young and nestling owls may be as high as 70% (usually significantly less in adult screech owls).
Eastern Screech-OwlMegascops asioThe Eastern Screech-Owl is a small, nocturnal woodland owl with ear-tufts. Its song is a distinctive trill and descending whinny that does not sound like the typical hooting of an owl. This owl has two color-morphs, reddish-brown and gray. In Tennessee the red morph outnumbers the gray by almost two to one. Eastern Screech-Owl Megascops asio. 
Eastern screech-owls are small owls, from 16 to 25 cm in length. Females are generally larger than males, which is common in owls. Eastern screech-owls are dichromatic, they come in two distinct colors. They are either gray or reddish, with darker streaking on the body. Both color variations make these owls blend in with the color of surrounding tree bark. Eastern screech-owls are found throughout much of eastern North America, from the Rocky Mountains in the West to the Atlantic coast and from Florida and southern Texas in the south as far north as southern Canada. (Gehlbach, 1995).