The seventh planet from the sun, Uranus has the coldest atmosphere of any of the planets in the solar system, even though it is not the most distant. Despite the fact that its equator faces away from the sun, the temperature distribution on Uranus is much like other planets, with a warmer equator and cooler poles. Most of the lighter gases are found in the layered atmosphere. Temperature and pressure increase farther from the insubstantial surface (like most gas giants, the surface of Uranus is set where the pressure of the gas is equal to the pressure at sea level on Earth).
The climate of Uranus is heavily influenced by both its lack of internal heat, which limits atmospheric activity, and by its extreme axial tilt, which induces intense seasonal variation. Uranus's atmosphere is remarkably bland in comparison to the other gas giants which it otherwise closely resembles. When Voyager 2 flew by Uranus in 1986, it observed a total of ten cloud features across the entire planet. In fact, Uranus's heat flux is only 0.042 ± 0.047 W/m², which is lower than the internal heat flux of Earth of about 0.075 W/m². The lowest temperature recorded in Uranus's tropopause is 49 K (−224 °C), making Uranus the coldest planet in the Solar System, colder than Neptune.
The atmosphere of Uranus is composed of 83% helium, 15% methane and 2% methane plus trace amounts of other gases such as ethane. The average temperature of the surface of Uranus is 49° Kelvin or -224° Celsius. What makes the planet so cold is that it has a low internal temperature. 
1 Uranus is the seventh planet from the sun and the third largest in the solar system. 2  Its diameter is 31,763 miles (51,118 km) which is four times larger than Earth. 3  The planet is categorized as an ice giant due to the high levels of icy elements in its composition. Uranus has the coldest atmospheric temperature of any planet in the solar system, around -224C (-371F). Temperatures in its interior are lower than those found in the other outer planets, possibly less than 4500C (8132F) .
How’s the temperature on Uranus? Cold. In fact, the temperature of Uranus makes it the coldest planet in the Solar System. The average temperature of the cloud tops on Uranus is 49 K (?224 °C). The big problem is that Uranus isn’t generating any heat. The other giant planets in the Solar System actually give off more heat than they receive from the Sun. This is because they’re slowly compacting down, and this generates high temperatures inside their cores.
The temperature would vary depending on where in the atmosphere you measured it. The upper atmosphere of Uranus is the coldest in the Solar System, with a minimum temperature of 49 K. It has a complex cloud structure with water clouds presumably being the deepest and methane clouds at the top. The highest temperature on Uranus is a chilling 57 kelvin [See related question] 57 Kelvin = -357.07 degrees Fahrenheit57 kelvin = -216.15 degrees Celsius See related link f … or more information.
Unlike most planets in the solar system, which have their equators pointed in the direction of the sun, Uranus is tipped on its side. The planet faces one pole at a time toward the sun, gradually spinning over the course of its orbit until the other pole receives light instead of darkness. Most of the lighter gases are found in the layered atmosphere. Temperature and pressure increase farther from the insubstantial surface (like most gas giants, the surface of Uranus is set where the pressure of the gas is equal to the pressure at sea level on Earth).
Uranus is the seventh planet from the Sun. It has the third-largest planetary radius and fourth-largest planetary mass in the Solar System. Uranus is similar in composition to Neptune, and both have different bulk chemical composition from that of the larger gas giants Jupiter and Saturn. Uranus's heat flux is only 0.042 ± 0.047 W/m2, which is lower than the internal heat flux of Earth of about 0.075 W/m2. The lowest temperature recorded in Uranus's tropopause is 49 K (−224 °C), making Uranus the coldest planet
But weather on Uranus functions much as it does on other gas giants. Like Jupiter and Saturn, the planet has bands of zones and belts that orbit parallel to the equator, which is warmer than the poles. The warm temperatures that drive the planet's weather come from the interior of the planet, rather than from the sun. Most of the lighter gases are found in the layered atmosphere. Temperature and pressure increase farther from the insubstantial surface (like most gas giants, the surface of Uranus is set where the pressure of the gas is equal to the pressure at sea level on Earth).
Uranus orbits the sun every 84 years at an average distance of 1.8 billion miles (2.9 billion km) and spins on its own axis every 17 hours compared to 24 hours on Earth. Uranus has the coldest atmospheric temperature of any planet in the solar system, around -224C (-371F). Temperatures in its interior are lower than those found in the other outer planets, possibly less than 4500C (8132F) .