The Boxer's most notable characteristic is his desire for human affection. Though his spirited bearing, square jaw, and cleanly muscled body suggest the well-conditioned middleweight athlete of dogdom, the Boxer is happiest when he is with people--especially children, watching protectively over their play. 
Hybrid dog breeds are a very popular trend these days. The basic idea is that just the right mix of two breeds can give you the perfect dog. The Lab-Boxer mix is one of the more popular hybrids, so let's take a look at the characteristics you can expect such a dog to display. The Boxador. Hey, we just have to give this dog a quality name and the Boxador certainly fits the bill. As the name suggests, this mix has a bit of Labrador and a bit of Boxer in it
The Boxer is a member of the Working Group. Boxers were first exhibited in a dog show for St. Bernards in Munich in 1895, the first Boxer club being founded the next year. Based on 2013 American Kennel Club statistics, Boxers held steady as the seventh most popular breed of dog in the United States for the fourth consecutive year. Boxers are brachycephalic (they have broad, short skulls), have a square muzzle, mandibular prognathism (an underbite), very strong jaws, and a powerful bite ideal for hanging on to large prey. The Boxer was bred from the Old English Bulldog and the now extinct Bullenbeisser, and is part of the Molosser group.
So are breeds with short noses, like Bulldogs or Pugs, since they can't pant as well to cool themselves off. If you want a heat-sensitive breed, the dog will need to stay indoors with you on warm or humid days, and you'll need to be extra cautious about exercising your dog in the heat. Training is essential for the Boxer. He's so big and strong that he can accidentally hurt people by knocking them over if he doesn't learn to control his actions. The Boxer's temperament plays a role in his trainability. He's happy and excitable, bouncy, and a bit of a mischief-maker.
The Boxer is a breed of medium-sized, short-haired dogs developed in Germany. Their coat is smooth and tight-fitting; colors are fawn or brindled, with or without white markings, which may cover the entire body, and white. Boxers are brachycephalic (they have broad, short skulls), have a square muzzle, mandibular prognathism (an underbite), very strong jaws, and a powerful bite ideal for hanging on to large prey. The Boxer was bred from the Old English Bulldog and the now extinct Bullenbeisser, and is part of the Molosser group.
Another distinctive characteristic of the breed is their slight underbite. The Boxer's ears are usually cropped and the tail is almost always docked. They have a short, sleek coat which comes in shades of fawn or brindle. The Boxer, a member of the Mastiff family, is a medium sized, energetic powerhouse of a dog. They have well-developed muscles which are visible underneath their tight skin. They have wide, blunt, black muzzles which are the characteristic trait of the breed
Most Boxers make vigilant watchdogs -- meaning they will bark when they see or see something out of the ordinary. Their guarding and territorial instincts, though, vary a great deal. Most Boxers react to strangers with a joyous Hi there! Come on in! (often accompanied by enthusiastic jumping and tail-wiggling). As puppies and young adults, Boxers are animated, playful (often cuckoo!) dogs who love to romp and jump. Middle-aged Boxers typically become more deliberate and dignified and make calm, loyal companions for the rest of their (unfortuntately not very long) lives.
**All dogs are individuals. Our ratings are generalizations, and they're not a guarantee of how any breed or individual dog will behave. Dogs from any breed can be good with children based on their past experiences, training on how to get along with kids, and personality. Training is essential for the Boxer. He's so big and strong that he can accidentally hurt people by knocking them over if he doesn't learn to control his actions. The Boxer's temperament plays a role in his trainability. He's happy and excitable, bouncy, and a bit of a mischief-maker.
Coat. Boxers exist in an assortment of different colors, including orange-brown, pale yellowish-beige, beige, white and reddish-brown. Boxers also commonly feature white spots throughout their coats. Their short hair has a glossy appearance and presses closely against their forms. 