One “unit” of CPE consists of 300 hours of clinical time where chaplain interns visit with patients, plus 100 hours of classroom and individual education. It’s a mix of one-on-one supervision, group process work, instruction, and writing. Here’s what students and alumni have to say about the value of their Clinical Pastoral Education experience at HealthCare Chaplaincy: “HCC's CPE program was one of the best educational experiences I've ever had.
Not only is Clinical Pastoral Education (CPE) required to become a professional Board Certified Chaplain, it is invaluable training for working with people of all ages who are coping with a life-changing situation, particularly healthwise. Here’s what students and alumni have to say about the value of their Clinical Pastoral Education experience at HealthCare Chaplaincy: “HCC's CPE program was one of the best educational experiences I've ever had.
Clinical Pastoral Education (CPE) is education and training for ministry in a variety of settings, including but not limited to chaplaincy, counseling, pastoral and lay ministries. 
Clinical Pastoral Education. A typical day in Clinical Pastoral Education is a day of administration, self-reflection, peer consultation, theological reflection, didactics on various topics and patient visitation. Baylor Health Care›Education›Health Care Career Programs›Clinical Pastoral Education›Program Information. Clinical Pastoral Education. The Clinical Pastoral Education (CPE) program includes: Clinical Experience. Baylor's CPE participants experience first-hand a variety of ministry situations.
Clinical Pastoral Education is interfaith professional education in the field of pastoral care. It is intended for theological students and ministers of all faiths who want to learn pastoral care skills and work within a pluralistic and clinical setting. CPE is offered in three levels (Level I, Level II and Supervisory), each with distinct objectives and outcomes. A single unit of CPE requires a minimum of 400 hours of training (300 clinical and 100 educational). Many faith bodies require a minimum of one unit of ACPE-accredited CPE to be considered for ordination.
The CPE center also was granted accreditation by the Association of Clinical Pastoral Education (ACPE, inc.) to conduct Supervisory Education for CPE in 2008. In 2009 Rev. Michael Doane became the Executive Director for Spiritual and Palliative Care for the CHRISTUS Spohn Health System. Website: www.acpe.edu. Clinical Pastoral Education (CPE) is interfaith professional education for ministry. CPE is experience-based theological education for seminarians, clergy, and laity of diverse faith traditions, cultures, and ethnic groups.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Clinical pastoral education (CPE) is education to teach pastoral care to clergy and others. CPE is the primary method of training hospital and hospice chaplains and spiritual care providers in the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, Australia and New Zealand. An underpinning theory of education that structures clinical pastoral education is the  Action-Reflection  mode of learning.