Definition (MEDLINEPLUS). Hyperglycemia means high blood sugar or glucose. Glucose comes from the foods you eat. Insulin is a hormone that moves glucose into your cells to give them energy. Hyperglycemia happens when your body doesn't make enough insulin or can't use it the right way. Definition (NCI). Abnormally high level of glucose in the blood. Definition (NCI_NCI-GLOSS). Higher than normal amount of glucose (a type of sugar) in the blood. Hyperglycemia can be a sign of diabetes or other conditions. Definition (NCI_CTCAE). A disorder characterized by laboratory test results that indicate an elevation in the concentration of blood sugar
The glucose level that defines hypoglycemia is variable. In people with diabetes levels below 3.9 mmol/L (70 mg/dL) is diagnostic. In adults without diabetes, symptoms related to low blood sugar, low blood sugar at the time of symptoms, and improvement when blood sugar is restored to normal confirm the diagnosis. The most common cause of hypoglycemia is medications used to treat diabetes mellitus such as insulin, sulfonylureas, and biguanides. Risk is greater in diabetics who have eaten less than usual, exercised more than usual, or drunk alcohol.
Hyperglycemia is the medical term describing an abnormally high blood glucose (blood sugar) level. Blood sugar is measured in a sample of blood taken from a vein or from a small finger stick sample of blood. Not enough insulin and the glucose levels in the blood stream start to rise; too much insulin, and they plummet. The consequences of hypoglycemia are easy to understand. No energy source, no function-and the first organ to go is the brain.
Diabetes mellitus (DM), commonly referred to as diabetes, is a group of metabolic diseases in which there are high blood sugar levels over a prolonged period. Symptoms of high blood sugar include frequent urination, increased thirst, and increased hunger. If left untreated, diabetes can cause many complications. 
Diabetic Ketoacidosis Symptoms. People with diabetes don't have the luxury of that auto-sensing. Not enough insulin and the glucose levels in the blood stream start to rise; too much insulin, and they plummet. The consequences of hypoglycemia are easy to understand. No energy source, no function-and the first organ to go is the brain.
Hyperglycemia: A high blood sugar. An elevated level specifically of the sugar glucose in the blood. Hyperglycemia is often found in diabetes mellitus. It occurs when the body does not have enough insulin or cannot use the insulin it has to turn glucose into energy. Hyperglycemia may also occur in Cushing's syndrome and other conditions. The signs of hyperglycemia are polydipsia (a great thirst), polyuria (a need to urinate often), and a dry mouth. The term hyperglycemia comes from the Greek hyper- = high, over, beyond, above + glykys = sweet + haima = blood. High sweetness (sugar) in the blood.
Diabetes drastically diminishes the effects of insulin on your body, either because your pancreas is unable to produce enough insulin (type 1 diabetes) or because your body is resistant to the effects of insulin or doesn't produce enough insulin to maintain a normal glucose level (type 2 diabetes). When the level of glucose in your blood rises, it signals your pancreas to release insulin. The insulin, in turn, unlocks your cells so that glucose can enter and provide the fuel your cells need to function properly.
Anatomy of the Pancreas. The pancreas is an organ that stretches partway across the abdomen, just below the stomach. Because its main functions are to aid digestion and produce hormones that control blood glucose levels, the pancreas is a focal point for understanding diabetes. The result is persistently high blood glucose levels (hyperglycemia) . Without treatment, hyperglycemia can lead to serious long-term complications, such as eye, kidney, and heart disease and damage to nerves.
High blood sugar (hyperglycemia) affects people who have diabetes. Several factors can contribute to hyperglycemia in people with diabetes, including food and physical activity choices, illness, nondiabetes medications, or skipping or not taking enough glucose-lowering medication. It's important to treat hyperglycemia, because if left untreated, hyperglycemia can become severe and lead to serious complications requiring emergency care, such as a diabetic coma. In the long term, persistent hyperglycemia, even if not severe, can lead to complications affecting your eyes, kidneys, nerves and heart.