In History of the Middle East. No, he believed it was his duty to protect Catholicism against the  Muslims of the Ottoman Empire, the Protestant countries of Europe  (England, Scotland, Netherlands, Switz … erland), and their allies  (France).
The Ottoman Empire was one of the greatest empires in world history, both in size and duration. The Ottoman Empire grew up in Anatolia (in modern Turkey) during the 13th and 14th centuries, and spread throughout south-western Europe, much of the Middle East and North Africa during the 14th, 15th and 16th centuries. Its extent, duration and impact made it one of the greatest empires in world history. 
The leading empires of the Islamic worlds were the Turkish Ottoman Empire that stretched from Europe into the Middle East and North Africa, the Persian Safavid Empire in the Middle East, and the Indian Mughal Empire in Asia. 
The Ottoman Empire Expands to Egypt and in Europe, 1516-71. The Ottoman Empire's Sultan from 1512 to 1520, Selim I, moved against the Mameluk rulers who had allied themselves with the Persians. In 1516 his troops moved southward and captured Damascus, Beirut, Gaza and Jerusalem. In 1517 the Ottomans defeated the Mameluk Sultan, Tuman, outside Cairo
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Ottoman Empire was at its peak during 16th and 17th century, particularly during the reign of Suleiman the Magnificent. It stretched from Southeast Europe to Western Asia and North Africa till Horn of Africa. It was a major world power in those days. The Ottoman Empire lasted from 1299 to 1923, with the height being  around the mid 1400s to mid 1500s. They were known for absorbing  surrounding cultures, and making them p … art of their own.
The Ottoman Empire lasted from 1299 to 1923, with the height being  around the mid 1400s to mid 1500s. They were known for absorbing  surrounding cultures, and making them p … art of their own. No, he believed it was his duty to protect Catholicism against the  Muslims of the Ottoman Empire, the Protestant countries of Europe  (England, Scotland, Netherlands, Switz … erland), and their allies  (France).
In the century after the death of Osman I, Ottoman rule began to extend over the Eastern Mediterranean and the Balkans. Osman's son, Orhan, captured the city of Bursa in 1324 and made it the new capital of the Ottoman state. After its defeat at the Battle of Vienna in 1683, however, the empire began a slow decline, culminating in the defeat of the empire by the Allies in World War I.
After conquests in the Balkans by Murad I between 1362 and 1389, the Ottoman sultanate was transformed into a transcontinental empire and claimant to the caliphate. The Ottomans ended the Byzantine Empire with the 1453 conquest of Constantinople by Mehmed the Conqueror. In the century after the death of Osman I, Ottoman rule began to extend over the Eastern Mediterranean and the Balkans. Osman's son, Orhan, captured the city of Bursa in 1324 and made it the new capital of the Ottoman state.
Ottoman Empire was at its peak during 16th and 17th century,  particularly during the reign of Suleiman the Magnificent. It  stretched from Southeast Europe to Western Asia … and North Africa  till Horn of Africa. No, he believed it was his duty to protect Catholicism against the  Muslims of the Ottoman Empire, the Protestant countries of Europe  (England, Scotland, Netherlands, Switz … erland), and their allies  (France).