1 Put the eggs in a pan of cold water: Place 6 cold eggs in a saucepan and fill with cold water, covering the eggs by an inch. 2  Bring the water to a rolling boil: Set the pan over high heat and bring the water to a boil, uncovered. 3  The water should come to a full, rolling boil. 4  Turn off the heat and cover the pan. Instructions. 1  Put the eggs in a pan of cold water: Place 6 cold eggs in a saucepan and fill with cold water, covering the eggs by an inch. 2  Bring the water to a rolling boil: Set the pan over high heat and bring the water to a boil, uncovered. 3  Turn off the heat and cover the pan.
Always start with eggs that are at room temperature to best predict the cooking time and minimise cracking. For a soft-boiled egg, lower the egg into gently boiling water with a slotted spoon. Allow three and a half minutes for a medium-sized egg and four minutes for a large egg. The yolk will be runny and the white just set. Cook for a further minute if you like your soft boiled eggs a little firmer. For a hard-boiled egg, start the egg in cold water and bring up to the boil. Once the water is gently boiling, set the timer for between 7-10 minutes depending on how well cooked you like your eggs. The longer you boil the egg, the firmer it will be
Method. 1  Put the eggs in a sauce pan and fill with cold water. 2  The water should cover the eggs. 3  Add a tsp of salt and bring it to a boil. 4  The salt prevents the egg from cracking and also helps in easy peeling. 5  Let the eggs boil for about 2-5 minutes (depending on the number of eggs). 6  Do not overcook the eggs. 1 Put the eggs in a sauce pan and fill with cold water. 2  The water should cover the eggs. 3  Add a tsp of salt and bring it to a boil. 4  The salt prevents the egg from cracking and also helps in easy peeling. 5  Let the eggs boil for about 2-5 minutes (depending on the number of eggs). 6  Do not overcook the eggs.
Getting started. Put the eggs in a saucepan and add enough cold water to cover them by about 1 inch. Set the pan over medium-high heat and as soon as the water reaches a brisk simmer, start timing. As the eggs cook, adjust the heat as needed to maintain a brisk simmer. For another way to hard-boil eggs, begin as directed at left with the eggs in cold water, but once the water reaches a brisk simmer, turn off the heat and let the eggs sit uncovered in the hot water for at least 10 minutes and up to 30 minutes—the water cools gradually, preventing the eggs from overcooking.
Directions. Place eggs in a large saucepan. Cover them with cool water by 1 inch. Slowly bring water to a boil over medium heat; when the water has reached a boil, cover and remove from heat. Let sit 12 minutes. Transfer eggs to a colander; place under cool running water to stop the cooking. 
Hands down the best way to cook eggs in a shell is pressure cooking them. In 4 minutes you get a soft boiled egg that is tender and extremely easy to peel EVERY single time. Saves energy and time since the pot is up to temp in minutes with a a minimum of water. Fresh or old the eggs peel flawlessly. If hard boiled they only become tough if you over cook them like any method. 
Older eggs are easier to peel than fresh eggs. If you are planning to make hard boiled eggs for Easter and want to make sure that the eggs are easy to peel, buy your eggs at least a week ahead of time (two weeks even better, they'll keep). If you need easy-to-peel eggs and you have fresh eggs, you might want to try steaming the eggs for 15 minutes. Pour an inch of water into a pot and insert a steamer basket.Bring to a boil. Place the eggs in the steamer basket, cover and steam for 15 minutes (more or less, check!). 