The audio must meet the requirements defined by the IEC 61937 standard. The interface is commonly used to connect the output of DVD and other audio players to home theater receivers which support DTS or Dolby Digital surround sound capability. The interface is also used to transport two channels of digital audio from a CD player to a receiver in uncompressed format. AES3 is the complimenting standard to S/PDIF and is primarily used in the professional music industry and for applications requiring the highest degree of sound quality possible. The standard supports PCM encoded audio that is delivered in DAT and CD format.
S/PDIF (Sony/Philips Digital Interface Format) is a type of digital audio interconnect used in consumer audio equipment to output audio over reasonably short distances. S/PDIF was developed at the same time as the main standard, AES3, used to interconnect professional audio equipment in the professional audio field.
Applications [edit]. A common use for the S/PDIF interface is to carry compressed digital audio for surround sound as defined by the standard IEC 61937. This mode is used to connect the output of a DVD player or computer, via optical or coax, to a home-theatre amplifying receiver that supports Dolby Digital or DTS. S/PDIF was developed at the same time as the main standard, AES3, used to interconnect professional audio equipment in the professional audio field.
SPDIF, also written as S/PDIF, stands for Sony/Phillips Digital Interface, and is an interface to transmit digital audio. In this tutorial, we will explain everything you need to know about this interface, including when and how to use it. Digital audio means that the audio signal is transmitted encoded in a series of 0s and 1s instead of being transmitted in analog format. This makes audio have higher fidelity, because no noise will be added to the audio signal. Therefore, it is always better to transmit audio in digital format. Currently, there are two consumer-level interfaces to transmit audio in digital format: SPDIF and HDMI (High-Definition Multimedia Interface). SPDIF transmits only audio, but HMDI also carries digital video signal
S/PDIF (Sony/Philips Digital Interface) is a standard audio transfer file format. It is usually found on digital audio equipment such as a DAT (Digital Audio Tape) machine or audio processing device. It allows the transfer of audio from one file to another without the conversion to and from an analog format, which could degrade the signal quality. The most common connector used with an S/PDIF interface is the RCA connector, the same one used for consumer audio products. An optical connector is also sometimes used
The SDIF format is a sequence of frames, similar to chunks in the IFF/ AIFF /RIFF formats, but not strictly compatible. Every frame’s length is a multiple of 8 bytes. Every SDIF file or stream must begin with a small opening frame. The body of the file or stream is a contiguous sequence of time-tagged frames, sorted in ascending temporal order, with multiple types of frames allowed in a single file or stream. The most recent version of this format, SDIF-3, is the standard multi-channel hardware connection employed in DSD recording systems.
The connectors are also known as optical audio cables and used as one of the possible connectors for SPDIF. TOSLINK is most commonly used to connect CD/DVD players, computers, video gaming consoles, DAT recorders, and MiniDisc to AV receivers for playback on a home theater system. AES3 is the complimenting standard to S/PDIF and is primarily used in the professional music industry and for applications requiring the highest degree of sound quality possible. The standard supports PCM encoded audio that is delivered in DAT and CD format.
Acronym for Sony Digital Interface Format. A professional digital audio interface utilizing BNC-type connectors, one for each audio channel, and a separate BNC-type connector for word clock synchronization, common to each channel. The body of the file or stream is a contiguous sequence of time-tagged frames, sorted in ascending temporal order, with multiple types of frames allowed in a single file or stream. The most recent version of this format, SDIF-3, is the standard multi-channel hardware connection employed in DSD recording systems.