Causes. For many years, it was commonly believed that the main cause of borderline personality disorder was poor or uninformed parenting. It now seems most likely that both environmental and biological factors, especially genetic ones, place a person at risk for developing the disorder. 
Personality disorders such as borderline personality disorder are typically diagnosed by a trained mental health professional, such as a psychologist or psychiatrist. Family physicians and general practitioners are generally not trained or well-equipped to make this type of psychological diagnosis. A personality disorder is an enduring pattern of inner experience and behavior that deviates from the norm of the individual’s culture. The pattern is seen in two or more of the following areas: cognition; affect; interpersonal functioning; or impulse control.
Borderline personality disorder (BPD) is a serious mental illness marked by unstable moods, behavior, and relationships. In 1980, the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual for Mental Disorders, Third Edition (DSM-III) listed BPD as a diagnosable illness for the first time. While mental health experts now generally agree that the name borderline personality disorder is misleading, a more accurate term does not exist yet. Most people who have BPD suffer from: 1  Problems with regulating emotions and thoughts. 2  Impulsive and reckless behavior. 3  Unstable relationships with other people.
Borderline personality disorder is a disorder characterized by pervasive instability in moods, interpersonal relationships, self-image and behavior, and can lead to suicidal behavior, substance abuse and failed relationships. Trull’s study, “Chromosome 9: linkage for borderline personality disorder” was recently published in Psychiatic Genetics and “Heritability of borderline personality disorder features is similar across three countries” was published in Psychological Medicine.
The main feature of borderline personality disorder (BPD) is a pervasive pattern of instability in interpersonal relationships, self-image and emotions. A personality disorder is an enduring pattern of inner experience and behavior that deviates from the norm of the individual’s culture. The pattern is seen in two or more of the following areas: cognition; affect; interpersonal functioning; or impulse control.
While sometimes under the radar screen, borderline personality disorder (BPD) is a condition more common than schizophrenia or bipolar disorder and is estimated to affect 2 percent of the population. Trull’s study, “Chromosome 9: linkage for borderline personality disorder” was recently published in Psychiatic Genetics and “Heritability of borderline personality disorder features is similar across three countries” was published in Psychological Medicine.
Abstract. Genetic epidemiologic studies indicate that all ten personality disorders (PDs) classified on the DSM-IV axis II are modestly to moderately heritable. Shared environmental and nonadditive genetic factors are of minor or no importance. No sex differences have been identified. 
1 Some studies of twins and families suggest that personality disorders may be inherited or strongly associated with other mental disorders among family members. 2  Brain abnormalities. 3  Some research has shown changes in certain areas of the brain involved in emotion regulation, impulsivity and aggression. Causes. As with other mental disorders, the causes of borderline personality disorder aren't fully understood. In addition to environmental factors — such as a history of child abuse or neglect — borderline personality disorder may be linked to: 1  Genetics