Some of the major micro-habitats found in the Alpine tundra are Meadows, snowbeads, talus fields, and fellfields. You can imagine that plants growing in one habitat are going will need different adaptations to grow in others. Animal Adaptations. Very few animals are found in this habitat year round. The Alpine Tundra is not a biome that traverses large expanses of terrain like other biomes. This biome is not restricted to certain latitudes. It is not determined by temperature or rainfall gradations either. Instead, this biome can be found at any latitude on earth. Its only dependent on elevation.
The biodiversity of tundra is low: 1,700 species of vascular plants and only 48 species of land mammals can be found, although millions of birds migrate there each year for the marshes. There are also a few fish species. There are few species with large populations. There are three types of tundra: arctic tundra, alpine tundra, and Antarctic tundra. In tundra, the vegetation is composed of dwarf shrubs, sedges and grasses, mosses, and lichens. Scattered trees grow in some tundra reg
Photograph by Rich Reid. Tundras are among Earth's coldest, harshest biomes. Tundra ecosystems are treeless regions found in the Arctic and on the tops of mountains, where the climate is cold and windy and rainfall is scant. Tundra lands are snow-covered for much of the year, until summer brings a burst of wildflower
Tundra Biome Flora. There are also quite a few types of plants found in the tundra biome. They include Arctic Willow, Arctic Moss, Caribou Moss, and Tufted Saxifrage. In this particular biome, the bitter cold makes it hard for most types of plants to survive. 
Tundra Animals. Tundra Animals.net, a website of The Animal Spot, is a reference to some of the animals that can be found in the tundra. Tundra is described as an area where levels of subsoil beneath the surface of the earth are permanently frozen. This soil is referred to as permafrost. 
Habitat: Tundra. These sites are about the types of climate, wildlife, and vegetation that are found in tundras. Locate tundras on maps and view photographs. Learn the difference between alpine and Arctic tundras. 
Habitats. A habitat, or biome, is the type of environment in which plant and animals live. Habitat is dictated by what kinds of plants grow there, the climate and the geography. Rainforest, coral reefs and the tundra are all habitats where particular kinds of plants and animals might be found. Terrestrial habitats include forests, grasslands, deserts and rainforests. 
Tundra. Tundra is the cold, treeless region around the poles that has permafrost as one of its defining features. Even at the height of summer, the soil a few centimetres under the surface remains frozen. The tundra therefore lacks animals that dig deep burrows and plants that require deep root systems. 