Birds cannot live by millet alone, but it can be part of a healthy diet. There are 6,000 varieties of millet, so there are many choices in the type of millet you can feed your bird. What we call spray millet is foxtail or finger millet left on the stalk and offered to birds as a treat. Proso millet, or white millet,” (Panicum miliaceum L .) is often found in seed mixes. Some varieties of proso millet vary in color, usually from white to yellow to red. Cook some warm millet that you and your bird can both enjoy by following these directions: Wash 1 cup raw millet (usually pearl millet found in a health food store). Put it in pan with 31/2 cups water. Bring to a boil and cook for 10 minutes. Some varieties of millet may need to cook longer
1 Some millet varieties, such as Golden Millet, grow to 18–24 inches (46–61 cm) in height, while other common varieties require more space and reach 5 feet (1.5 m) or more in height. 2  Your millet plant may not reach its maximum height in cool climates. 2. Plant millet in warm temperatures. Millet is sensitive to cold and should only be planted when soil temperatures at a 1 inch (2.5 cm) depth are consistently at 65ºF (18ºC) or above to ensure reliable sprouting.
You grow millet for your parakeets by planting the seed from the stalks you purchase (there are always a few in the bottom of the bag) in rich soil that is a little sandy for good drainage. Do not plant the seeds very deep, just cover them with soil slightly. Millet doesn't like to be waterlogged. 
Millet is a tall grass that has been cultivated as food for at least 3,000 years. In many Western countries, it is mostly known to bird owners as a special treat for their pets, or to farmers who are discovering its usefulness as a fast-growing emergency crop or tough, drought-resistant plant. 2. Plant millet in warm temperatures. Millet is sensitive to cold and should only be planted when soil temperatures at a 1 inch (2.5 cm) depth are consistently at 65ºF (18ºC) or above to ensure reliable sprouting.
One particular seed, millet, is lower in fat and in fact, very nutritious. Millet is a grass that has the botanical name of panicum miliaceum and is one of the most nutritious grains you can give to your bird. Millet contains high levels of proteins, carbohydrates, B-complex vitamins, calcium, phosphorus and magnesium in addition to a host of other important nutrients. The best millet you can buy is fresh spray millet, such as our Golden Sunburst Millet. Fresh millet is moist and the seeds are firmly attached; many pre-packaged millets (such as those you find in grocery stores) are stored so long that they are dry and the seeds fall to the cage floor uneaten.
Millets are some of the oldest of cultivated crops. The term millet is applied to various grass crops whose seeds are harvested for food or feed. The five millet species of commercial importance are proso, foxtail, barnyard, browntop and pearl. 
Although millet is most often associated as the main ingredient in bird seed, it is not just for the birds.. Creamy like mashed potatoes or fluffy like rice, millet is a delicious grain that can accompany many types of food. As with most grains, millet is available in markets throughout the year. 
Low in fat and high in carbohydrates with protein, millet is a healthy and nutritious snack. Hartz Millet Spray is a good treat for your bird because it offers a foraging opportunity as they have to harvest their own seed from the millet's grain heads. A naturally grown treat for all seed-eating pet birds, these millet sprays have been carefully harvested to retain nature's bounty. 1  Resealable bag.
Moldy spray millet or any seed (or any food for that matter) could make your bird sick, even sick-to-death. It would smell unpleasant---moldy. If it's webby or has moth larvae/adult moths don't panic. Your birds can still eat it since the insects are good protein. 