Fruits, vegetables, and low-fat dairy are examples of food with a higher nutrient-density, relatively fewer calories and plenty of vitamins and minerals. Sweets and heavily processed foods with a lot of added sugar and fat are generally calorie-dense without a wealth of those
Nutrient-Dense: These foods provide more nutrients and generally fewer calories per unit volume. They are loaded with the nutrients that we need to thrive (e.g. fruits, vegetables, whole grains). Energy-Dense: These foods provide more calories (energy) per unit of volume than nutrient-dense foods.
Foods that are nutrient dense have high levels of nutrients per serving. Nutrient dense refers to the amount of vitamins, minerals, and/or protein in a food. Some foods can be energy dense and provide few nutrients, while other foods can be nutrient dense but provide little energy or calories.
While all foods contain nutrients, nutrient-dense foods are more beneficial for maintaining optimal health, as they provide more nutrients than calories. Unlike nutrient-dense foods, empty-calorie foods or energy-dense foods are nutritionally poor food choices, as they contain more calories than nutrients. A high intake of empty-calorie foods may cause weight gain, especially if your intake of calories exceeds their utilization.
Choose Nutrient-dense Foods. To eat well, it's best to choose a mix of nutrient-dense foods every day. Nutrient-dense foods are foods that have a lot of nutrients but relatively few calories. Look for foods that contain vitamins, minerals, complex carbohydrates, lean protein, and healthy fats.
Although sometimes used interchangeably, calorie-dense and nutrient-dense have very different meanings. Calorie-dense foods can also provide nutrients, but nutrient-dense foods will provide high levels of nutrients other than calories. If you are trying to lose weight or maintain your weight, choose a diet high in nutrient-dense foods and avoid or restrict calorie-dense foods.
Nutrient-dense foods contain high levels of nutrients, such as protein, carbohydrates, fats, vitamins and minerals, but with few calories. These foods provide the most bang for your nutritional buck. They are high-quality and generally are minimally processed.