Foal. Help me decide: Self care vs. Full care vs. Pasture. Hey guys. We just moved my horse and my fiance's horse to the city where we bought our house, and they are now in a great boarding facility 5 minutes from our house in town. 
$175.00/month per horse. Full Boarding: Stall and cleaning, grain and hay (provided by owner) fed daily, daily turnout, fresh water, normal vet, farrier holdings, grooming, fly spray, banketing and fly masking (provided by owner). Cost will be according to type of services requested. Prices are with a 6 month renewable lease. 
Shavings will cost $5.00 per wheelbarrow and $6.00 per bale of Hay.· If unable to bring in horse(s), turnouts, or feed, please notify Shylah Farm via a phone call or text ASAP, so the care of the horse(s) can be arranged. 
There's pasture board, self-care board, full board. I pay $320/month for full board at a facility with a ring + full course of jumps, daily turnout, washstall, indoor ring, lessons available, training and showing available, the works. 
Separate self care boarding is available in our 11 stall “small” barn which features stalls with a minimum size of 12’x12′, two foaling stalls are 16’x16′. Seven (7) out of the 11 stalls features self-water systems and all the stalls have clean feed cribs, full rubber mating and are built of 2”x 6” T& G lumber. 
Boarding. Boarding a horse can cost anywhere from $100 per month for pasture board, with no inside stabling to close to $1000 per month in barns with stalls, individual turn-out, arenas and other amenities close to urban areas.
Boarding Services and Rates-. Our self-care and full-care boarding facility provides you with low cost boarding options where you are in control. Please review the following descriptions and pricing information on our self-care, partial-care, full-care, and private barn boarding options and see what Windy Hill Acres can do for you. Self-Care Partial-Care Full-Care Private Barn. Self-Care. 1  Board is $125 per month and includes:
We offer different boarding options to fit your horses needs. BOARDING PRICE LIST. 1  Stall 12 x 16 stall with 19 x 32 paddock. 2  Self care – $150 Full care – $350. 3  Suite (12 x 16 stall and 50 x 37 paddock. 4  Self care – $175 Full care – $375. 5  Paddock with a run in shelter starting at $125. 
Self care boarding is $175 per month. A one month deposit ($175) required per horse. Deposit returned if 30 day notice is given, all bills are up to date and horse has remained at Circle D Ranch for at least six months. Lessons, Training, Trimming/worming/shots and other horse services available. Deposit returned if 30 day notice is given, all bills are up to date and horse has remained at Circle D Ranch for at least six months. Self care pasture boarding is available on 38+ acres northwest of Tioga, TX.
Full care boarding cost is $355/month. Free choice hay provided as needed. A one month deposit ($355) required per horse. Deposit returned if 30 day notice is given, all bills are up to date and horse has remained at Circle D Ranch for at least six months. Self care pasture boarding is available on 38+ acres northwest of Tioga, TX.