A VGA cable is a lead used for transmitting video signals, and it is most commonly used to link computers with monitors. Some high definition televisions use this type of cable as well. VGA stands for video graphics array, and it was a graphics standard used by IBM in its early PCs sold in the 1980s. Today, all PCs support VGA, but most of them use a more advanced system depending on the actual monitor used. In most cases, the term VGA refers to the type of cable used to carry the display signals, regardless of the actual graphics system being used. It’s characterized by 15 pins on the plug in three rows of five. The plug also has two screws, one either side of the pins, that secure it into place in the socket.
Inside is no longer accessible from outside the RGA network. In order to access Inside, please follow the appropriate Secure Connect to first log into the RGA network, then continue to navigate as needed. 
A Video Graphics Array (VGA) connector is a three-row 15-pin DE-15 connector. The 15-pin VGA connector is found on many video cards, computer monitors, and high definition television sets. On laptop computers or other small devices, a mini-VGA port is sometimes used in place of the full-sized VGA connector. 
1 Plug the power cable into the back of the monitor, then connect the opposite end into a power outlet or power source. 2  Monitors do not receive power through the video signal cable, but instead need their own power connection. 3  Compare the back of your computer to the back of your monitor. 1: Compare: Physical Connections. 1 
Underwriting Connection – Portal for those teamed with RGA offering exclusive access to our underwriters, actuaries, and industry experts. Log in to RGA’s Underwriting Connection to find the most current information, as well as: 
14 REA Setup Utility Chapter 3 RGA Ethernet Adapter Status Meaning Ready for Setup REA is in IP setup mode and waiting to be configured.Available REA is ready to use with the RGA software.Out of Subnet The IP address and the subnet mask are not on thesame network as your computer. 18 REA Setup Utility Chapter 3 RGA Ethernet Adapter Configuration Test When an REA with ‘Available’ status is selected in REASetupUtility, the ‘Test’ buttonwill be active. This button tests the Ethernet connection between the PC and the selectedREA and between the PC and the RGA which is connected to the REA.1.
Best Answer: I don't know what RGA is, but you are trying to connect to component video. I'm just going to say these are not what you want to use. I would try a 15-pin VGA cable instead. · just now. Report Abuse. You must use a VGA to VGA to connect your laptop to your TV. you will then need a mini rca audio cable for sound, If you connect with a HDMI cable, assuming your laptop is capable that will suffice.
4 RGA Ethernet Adapter Unpacking Checklist • Open the box and inspect all components of the RGA Ethernet Adapter (REA).• Report any damage to Stanford Research Systems immediately.• Compare the contents of the shipping boxes against your original order and thechecklist below. 18 REA Setup Utility Chapter 3 RGA Ethernet Adapter Configuration Test When an REA with ‘Available’ status is selected in REASetupUtility, the ‘Test’ buttonwill be active. This button tests the Ethernet connection between the PC and the selectedREA and between the PC and the RGA which is connected to the REA.1.
An RCA connector, sometimes called a phono connector or cinch connector, is a type of electrical connector commonly used to carry audio and video signals. The name phono plug is sometimes confused with a phone plug which may refer to a quarter-inch  phone plug  - Tip/Sleeve (TS) or Tip/Ring/Sleeve (TRS) connector-or to a 4P4C connector used for a telephone (which is often, though incorrectly, called RJ9, RJ10, or RJ22).
In order to access RGA Connect, please follow the appropriate Secure Connect to first log into the RGA network, then continue to navigate as needed. 