Summary. By 2050, one-fifth of the total U.S. population will be elderly (that is, 65 or older), up from 12 percent in 2000 and 8 percent in 1950. The number of people age 85 or older will grow the fastest over the next few decades, constituting 4 percent of the population by 2050, or 10 times its share in 1950. The term long-term services and supports (LTSS) refers to the types of assistance provided to people with functional or cognitive limitations to help them perform routine daily activities. That assistance is provided in several different forms and venues.
In a general sense, alternative energy as it is currently conceived, is that which is produced or recovered without the undesirable consequences inherent in fossil fuel use, particularly high carbon dioxide emissions (greenhouse gas), an important factor in global warming. Biomass briquettes are being developed in the developing world as an alternative to charcoal. The technique involves the conversion of almost any plant matter into compressed briquettes that typically have about 70% the calorific value of charcoal. There are relatively few examples of large scale briquette production.
Complementary medicine is alternative medicine used together with conventional medical treatment in a belief, not established using the scientific method, that it complements (improves the efficacy of) the treatment. CAM is the abbreviation for complementary and alternative medicine. That alternative medicine has been on the rise in countries where Western science and scientific method generally are accepted as the major foundations for healthcare, and 'evidence-based' practice is the dominant paradigm was described as an  enigma  in the Medical Journal of Australia.
Remedies sought in a lawsuit in various forms or in the alternative, such as a demand for Specific Performance of a contract or monetary damages to compensate for the failure to perform the obligation, or both. Modern rules governing Pleading in courts now specifically permit a party to demand relief in the alternative. 
Alternative energy is any energy source that is an alternative to fossil fuel. These alternatives are intended to address concerns about such fossil fuels. Biomass briquettes are being developed in the developing world as an alternative to charcoal. The technique involves the conversion of almost any plant matter into compressed briquettes that typically have about 70% the calorific value of charcoal. There are relatively few examples of large scale briquette production.
Demand is a determined and often an arrogant word; one may rightfully demand what is his own or his due, when it is withheld or denied; or he may wrongfully demand that to which he has no claim but power. Synonyms: imposition. demand. One asks what he feels that he may fairly claim and reasonably expect; if a son shall ask bread of any of you that is a father, Luke xi, 11; he begs for that to which he advances no claim but pity.
By Mike Moffatt. What Demand Is: Economists have a very precise definition of demand. For them demand is the relationship between the quantity of a good or service consumers will purchase and the price charged for that good. Demand is not simply a quantity consumers wish to purchase such as '5 oranges' or '17 shares of Microsoft', because demand represents the entire relationship between quantity desired of a good and all possible prices charged for that good.
The meaning of the term alternative in the expression alternative medicine, is not that it is an actual effective alternative to medical science, although some alternative medicine promoters may use the loose terminology to give the appearance of effectiveness. That alternative medicine has been on the rise in countries where Western science and scientific method generally are accepted as the major foundations for healthcare, and 'evidence-based' practice is the dominant paradigm was described as an  enigma  in the Medical Journal of Australia.
3. Ask for a specific resolution. For example, ask for a specific amount of money to be paid by a set date, or for the other person to do something specific, such as fix a botched home repair job. 4. Make it look professional. Use a computer or typewriter to write your demand letter. 5. Threaten the alternative of court. Conclude by stating that you will file a lawsuit if your demand is not met. To learn more about demand letters and other methods of settling potential disputes, read Everybody's Guide to Small Claims Court, by Ralph Warner (Nolo).