The troposphere is the lowest layer of the Earth's atmosphere. The air is very well mixed and the temperature decreases with altitude. Air in the troposphere is heated from the ground up. The surface of the Earth absorbs energy and heats up faster than the air does. About 90% of the ozone in the Earth's atmosphere is found in the region called the stratosphere. This is the atmospheric layer between 16 and 48 kilometers (10 and 30 miles) above the Earth's surface. Ozone forms a kind of layer in the stratosphere, where it is more concentrated than anywhere else. Ozone and oxygen molecules in the stratosphere absorb ultraviolet light from the Sun, providing a shield that prevents this radiation from passing to the Earth's surface
Nope. It absorbs ultraviolet rays from the sun. Ozone is capable of absorbing infrared radiation coming from the planet and releases it during the evening hours. It is a green … house gas. The ozone in the layer around the atmosphere absorbs the UV rays from the sun, some absorbed, some scattered away, the infrared heat is emitted FROM the earth surface not the sun. Liam Frayne. 
Now, when the sun overheats the oxygen molecules, ozone gas is produced which forms up the ozone layer. One interesting fact about ozone layer is that although it protects the earth from ultra violet radiation, it is made with the help of UV rays given out by the sun. Every minute, we can see three molecules of oxygen join together to form ozone. Hence, you are saved from the harmful effects of the sun rays.
The main source of these layers is the Sun's ultraviolet light which ionizes atoms and molecules in the Earth's upper atmosphere. During this process, electrons are knocked free from molecules or particles in the atmosphere. About 90% of the ozone in the Earth's atmosphere is found in the region called the stratosphere. This is the atmospheric layer between 16 and 48 kilometers (10 and 30 miles) above the Earth's surface. Ozone forms a kind of layer in the stratosphere, where it is more concentrated than anywhere else. Ozone and oxygen molecules in the stratosphere absorb ultraviolet light from the Sun, providing a shield that prevents this radiation from passing to the Earth's surfac
Depending on where ozone resides, it can protect or harm life on Earth. Most ozone resides in the stratosphere (a layer of the atmosphere between 10 and 40 km above us), where it acts as a shield to protect Earth's surface from the sun's harmful ultraviolet radiation. With a weakening of this shield, we would be more susceptible to skin cancer, cataracts and impaired immune systems. Bombarded by the sun's ultraviolet energy, CFC molecules break up and release chlorine atoms. Free chlorine atoms then react with ozone molecules, taking one oxygen atom to form chlorine monoxide and leaving an ordinary oxygen molecule.
The ozone layer is the layer of the atmosphere that filters the  sun's rays. This layer is located in the upper atmosphere called  the stratosphere. Edit. Share to: Answered. In Atmospheric Sciences. The photosphere is the visible part of the Sun's atmosphere. The parts of the sun's atmosphere from the surface outward are the photosphere, the chromosphere, the corona, and the outer layers of the corona called the solar wind.
In the stratosphere, ozone is created primarily by ultraviolet radiation. When high-energy ultraviolet rays strike ordinary oxygen molecules (O 2), they split the molecule into two single oxygen atoms, known as atomic oxygen. A freed oxygen atom then combines with another oxygen molecule to form a molecule of ozone. There is so much oxygen in our atmosphere, that these high-energy ultraviolet rays are completely absorbed in the stratosphere. The relative heights of atmospheric layers
The ozone layer is a layer of gas molecules which is bombarded with rays from the sun. These are harmful UV rays and this ozone layer in present in the stratosphere. The photosphere is the visible part of the Sun's atmosphere. The parts of the sun's atmosphere from the surface outward are the photosphere, the chromosphere, the corona, and the outer layers of the corona called the solar wind.
Ozone is extremely valuable since it absorbs a range of ultraviolet energy. When an ozone molecule absorbs even low-energy ultraviolet radiation, it splits into an ordinary oxygen molecule and a free oxygen atom. Usually this free oxygen atom quickly re-joins with an oxygen molecule to form another ozone molecule. When high-energy ultraviolet rays strike ordinary oxygen molecules (O 2), they split the molecule into two single oxygen atoms, known as atomic oxygen. A freed oxygen atom then combines with another oxygen molecule to form a molecule of ozone.