Enrollment Specialist, Health Care Salary. (United States). Median pay for Health Care Enrollment Specialists in the United States lies in the neighborhood of $15.34 per hour. Geography is the biggest factor affecting pay for this group, followed by years of experience. The vast majority of Health Care Enrollment Specialists (84 percent) who participated in the survey are women. Experience seems to be a major factor in determining the incomes of Health Care Enrollment Specialists. Someone who has worked for fewer than five years earns around $34K on average. Individuals with five to 10 years of experience don't get much more, though; the average income in this group is $36K.
Average Enrollment Counselor salaries for job postings nationwide are 29% lower than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
Well there are a wide range of jobs in the Insurance category and their pay varies greatly. If you know the pay grade of the job you are searching for you can narrow down this list to only view Insurance jobs that pay less than $30K, $30K-$50K, $50K-$80K, $80K-$100K, or more than $100K.
Average Enrollment Coordinator Salaries. The average salary for enrollment coordinator jobs is $37,000. Average enrollment coordinator salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term enrollment coordinator anywhere in the job listing. 
Average Enrollment Specialist Salaries. The average salary for enrollment specialist jobs is $43,000. Average enrollment specialist salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term enrollment specialist anywhere in the job listing.
An Enrollment Manager earns an average salary of $54,513 per year. A skill in People Management is associated with high pay for this job. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 20 years' experience in this career. X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job. It does not include equity (stock) compensation, cash value of retirement benefits, or the value of other non-cash benefits (e.g. healthcare).
If we find your child can get CHIP, your enrollment fee and co-pays will be based on your family’s income. Enrollment fees are $50 or less per family, per year. Co-pays for doctor visits and prescriptions range from $3 to $5 for lower-income families and $20 to $35 for higher-income families. Do not remove or backspace to this line, calculator hook. See a chart that shows CHIP enrollment fees (PDF). A family of one with a monthly income of $1,530 or less. does not have to pay a yearly enrollment fee. If the monthly income is from $1,531 to $1,874, there will be a $35 one-year enrollment fee. If the monthly income is from $1,875 to $2,021, there will be a $50