Characteristics of Mollusks. Mollusks are soft-bodied invertebrates with bilateral symmetry and usually one or two shells. Their organs are in a fluid-filled cavity; the word mollusks in Latin means soft. Most of the mollusks live in water but some live on land. There are more than 110,000 species that have been identified. A theoretical, idealized mollusk would crawl on a single flat, muscular foot, and the body would have at least a suggestion of a head at one end and an anus at the other. 
Mollusks, also spelled as molluscs, are living entities characterized by the presence of a hard outer shell. This phylum encompasses some of the highly-diverse animal species in the world. Mollusks are invertebrate animals, meaning that they lack the vertebral column. More information on mollusk characteristics is given in the following paragraphs.
The circulatory system of most mollusks is an open system. In an open circulatory system, the heart moves blood out into the open spaces around the body organs. The blood contains nutrients and oxygen. the blood completely surrounds and nourishes the body organs. Body Plan. Mollusks have a thin layer of tissue called the mantle. The mantle covers the body organs, which are located in the visceral mass. Between the soft body and the mantle is a space called the mantle cavity. Mollusks contain gills.
The molluscs or mollusks /ˈmɒləsks/ compose the large phylum of invertebrate animals known as the Mollusca. Around 85,000 extant species of molluscs are recognized. Molluscs are the largest marine phylum, comprising about 23% of all the named marine organisms. 
The basic mollusk characteristics are the presence of an outer shell (except for some species), and a soft body that is bilaterally symmetrical. This article presents some amazing characteristics about the mollusk species. This phylum encompasses some of the highly-diverse animal species in the world. Mollusks are invertebrate animals, meaning that they lack the vertebral column. More information on mollusk characteristics is given in the following paragraphs.
Characteristics of molluscs. 1  unsegmented soft body. 2  most have internal or external shell. 3  have a mantle-a fold in the body wall that secretes the hard prtesctive shell. 4  muscular foot and/or tentacles. 5  have a radula-a toothed structure used to grate food. Characteristics of molluscs unsegmented soft body most have internal or external shell have a mantle-a fold in the body wall that secretes the hard prtesctive shell muscular foot and/or tentacles have a radula-a toothed structure used to grate food two pairs of gills except in polmonate snails.
This is a description of their main characteristic-all molluscs ave a soft body, which (with the exceptions of species from certain families) is generally protected by an external, calcium-containing shell. In the octopuses and sea-slugs the shells is completely absent where as in squids it is located internally. The molluscs (Americans spell it as ‘mollusks’) constitute one of the largest phyla of animals, with close to 112,000 species to be found worldwide.
Mollusks are a large group of invertebrate animals. Mollusks have soft bodies, and their bodies are not divided into rings like the segmented worms called annelids. Mollusks don't have legs, though some have flexible tentacles for sensing their environment or grabbing things. 