Cohesion. Definition. noun. The act, state or process of sticking together. (physics) The intermolecular force that holds together alike molecules in a substance. In chemistry and physics, cohesion refers to the sticking together of alike molecules, such as water molecule being attracted to another water molecule. Cohesion also causes water molecules to form drops.
Cohesion in water has to do with properties of water molecules that make them 'stick' together. To better understand water cohesion, we need to zoom in on a teaspoonful of water. In this teaspoon, there are more than a hundred drops of water. And in each individual drop, we can find millions of water molecules. Lesson Summary. Cohesion in water is a property of water that makes its molecules attracted to each other. A water molecule is made of one oxygen atom bonded to two hydrogen atoms. The molecule has an unbalanced charge, with the oxygen side being slightly more negative and the hydrogen side being more positive.
Adhesion is the force of attraction between molecules of different substances while cohesion is the force of attraction between molecules of the same substance. + 178 others found this useful. Cho Hyunjin. Cohesion is the molecular force between like particles in one body or substance that acts to unite them...while adhesion is the molecular force of attraction between unlike bo … dies that acts to hold them together. 1 person found this useful.
1 Cohesion (chemistry) , the intermolecular attraction between like-molecules. 2  Cohesion (computer science) , a measure of how well the lines of source code within a module work together. 3  Cohesion (geology) , the part of shear strength that is independent of the normal effective stress in mass movements. 1 Cohesion (computer science) , a measure of how well the lines of source code within a module work together. 2
Cohesion refers to a liquid's attraction to itself, that is, between its atoms or molecules. Adhesion is the attraction of the liquid to the container holding it. For example … , the surface of water in a glass curves upwards at the rim-also known as the meniscus, because adhesion exceeds cohesion. Cohesion in water is the water being 'sticky' or attracted to itself. Adhesion in water is when the water is 'sticky' or attacted to other surfaces. Water is cohesive and adhe … sive because of it's properties. The oxyogen and hydrogen molecules are bonded together and are polar.
Cohesion is the molecular force between like particles in one body or substance that acts to unite them...while adhesion is the molecular force of attraction between unlike bo … dies that acts to hold them together. 1 person found this useful. Cohesion in water is the water being 'sticky' or attracted to itself. Adhesion in water is when the water is 'sticky' or attacted to other surfaces. Water is cohesive and adhe … sive because of it's properties. The oxyogen and hydrogen molecules are bonded together and are polar.
Cohesion refers to a liquid's attraction to itself, that is, between its atoms or molecules. Adhesion is the attraction of the liquid to the container holding it. Cohesion is the molecular force between like particles in one body or substance that acts to unite them...while adhesion is the molecular force of attraction between unlike bo … dies that acts to hold them together. 1 person found this useful.
Diffen › Science › Chemistry. Cohesion is the property of like molecules (of the same substance) to stick to each other due to mutual attraction. Adhesion is the property of different molecules or surfaces to cling to each other. 