Wilfred /wil-fred/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is pronounced WIL-fred. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Wilfred is desiring peace. Saint Wilfred (seventh century) was an English saint. The name was revived in the 19th century. Author Wilfred Sheed. Wilfred is a very prominent first name for males (#436 out of 1220, Top 36%) and also a very prominent surname for all people (#70679 out of 150436, Top 47%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Wilfred for boys.
Origin of the name Wilfred: Wilfred is derived from the Old English Wilfrith (desire for peace), a compound name composed of the elements willa (a wish, a desire) and frith (peace). Var: Wilfrid, Willifred. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
[ 3 syll. wi -(l) fred, wil-fr-ed ] The baby boy name Wilfred is pronounced as W IH LFerahD †. Wilfred is used chiefly in the English language and it is derived from Germanic origins. The name's meaning is desiring peace. A two-element name, it is derived from the elements 'wil' meaning will, desire; ' fridu ' peace, protection, safety. Walfrid (Old English) and Wilfrith (Old English) are original forms of Wilfred. The name Wilfreda (English) is the female form of Wilfred. Wilfred has 24 variants that are used in English and other languages. Variants used in English include Wifredo, Wilferd, Wilfredo (used in Italian and Spanish too), Wilfrid (used in French too), Wilfride, Wilfryd, Willfred, Willfredo, Willfrid, and Willfryd.
English Meaning: The name Wilfred is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Wilfred is: Peace. American Meaning: The name Wilfred is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Wilfred is: Peace. German Meaning: The name Wilfred is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Wilfred is: Resolute or peaceful. Teutonic Meaning: The name Wilfred is a Teutonic baby name. In Teutonic the meaning of the name Wilfred is: Resolute peace.
Meaning & History. Means desiring peace from Old English wil will, desire and friþ peace. Saint Wilfrid was a 7th-century Anglo-Saxon bishop. The name was rarely used after the Norman conquest, but it was revived in the 19th century. Related Names
Meaning of Wilfred. English name. In English, the name Wilfred means-peaceful. Other origins for the name Wilfred include-English, German.The name Wilfred is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-peaceful. Origin-England.
Look up Wilfred, Wilfrid, Wilfrith, Wifred in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Wilfred and Wifred are masculine given names derived from Germanic roots meaning will and peace (like Old English wil and frið) . Wilfred was popular in the United Kingdom in the early twentieth century. 