According to the Salary Expert website, an executive director of a non-profit animal shelter averages between $50,000 to $60,000 a year in most U.S. markets. An operations manager might earn about $40,000 in most markets. According to the Salary Expert website, the highest compensation for such positions, about $60,000 a year, is in San Francisco. Animal shelter managers in the New York and Atlanta metro areas can expect to earn about $50,000 a year.
RE: About how much do animal shelter workers make? I&#39;m sure it varies, but about how much do they make yearly (USDs preferably)? There&#39;s a shelter in my area looking for a receptionist and it just got me curious. Front desk personnel usually don't make much more than minimum wage, which would work out to about $15,000 a year if the position is full-time. I've seen a few up to about $18,000 yearly, but wouldn't expect much, if any, more.
If you die while employed by Shelter a nominated member of your family will receive two times your annual salary. After two months employment you will receive eight weeks full pay and eight weeks half pay in the first year, on a sliding scale up to 24 weeks full pay and 24 weeks half pay after four years service. Annual leave. All Shelter employees receive 30 days annual leave in addition to 8 bank holidays per annum (pro rata for part time staff and those joining part way through the year). Shelter will make a pension contribution of 10% of your salary provided that you contribute a minimum of 2% of your salary.
Cleaner Salary. (United Kingdom). A Cleaner earns an average wage of £6.85 per hour. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 20 years' experience in this field. Pay for this job does not change much by experience, with the most experienced earning only a bit more than the least. £5,749 - £19,765
Best Answer: 1. Most animal shelters can not afford to pay employees and most workers are, therefor, volunteers. It would be cruel to ask them for money they can't afford to give you 2. How much someone is willing to pay a dog walker depends on how big the dog is and the skill of the dog walker. In my neighborhood it hovers around $5-$10 per dog. Source(s):
Average Animal Shelter Cleaner salaries for job postings in Pittsboro, NC are 9% lower than average Animal Shelter Cleaner salaries for job postings nationwide. 
Salary by Region. Salaries for animal shelter managers also vary by region. According to the Salary Expert website, the highest compensation for such positions, about $60,000 a year, is in San Francisco. Animal shelter managers in the New York and Atlanta metro areas can expect to earn about $50,000 a year.