Choose Lean Sources of Protein. Meat, poultry, seafood, dry beans or peas, eggs, nuts, and seeds are considered part of the protein foods group. These tips will help you choose the leanest protein. Start with a lean choice: 1  Boneless, skinless chicken breasts and turkey cutlets are the leanest poultry choices. 
Lean protein fish sources include smoked herring, fresh or frozen cod, flounder, haddock, halibut, salmon, trout, tuna and sardines. Lean shellfish sources include oysters, clams, crab, imitation shellfish, lobster, scallops and shrimp. Lean protein has less than 3 g of fat and around 50 calories per serving, according to both the National Heart Lung and Blood Institute and the Mayo Clinic. The Mayo Clinic recommends women have at least 46 g of protein and men 56 g of protein each day.
The first, lean protein, is defined as a source of protein that contains 2 to 3 grams of fat and 55 calories or less per serving. The second category is very lean protein.. Foods in this category are high in protein and contain no more than 1 gram of fat and 35 calories per serving. The NHLBI lists only two vegetarian sources of lean protein. The first is 1 ounce of low-fat cheese, such as cheddar, which contains 49 calories, 2 grams of fat and 6.9 grams of protein.
Meat and Poultry Sources. Lean protein meat sources include: chicken and turkey breast, or dark meat with the skin removed; lean beef; roast veal and lamb, or lean chops; pork tenderloin or fresh ham; luncheon meats with 3 g or less of fat per ounce and wild game, such as buffalo, ostrich, rabbit and venison. Lean protein has less than 3 g of fat and around 50 calories per serving, according to both the National Heart Lung and Blood Institute and the Mayo Clinic. The Mayo Clinic recommends women have at least 46 g of protein and men 56 g of protein each day.
90% (or Leaner) Ground Beef. Lean ground beef is a source of high-quality protein, and you don't need a lot to get the protein you need. Just 3 ounces delivers 22 grams of protein, along with a healthy dose of iron, zinc and vitamin B12. White meat is the leanest choice, but even dark meat can be a good choice if you skip the skin. Both chicken and turkey give you about 25 grams of high-quality protein, along with B vitamins and selenium. Roast a whole chicken for Sunday dinner, use the leftovers to top Monday’s salad and fill Tuesday’s sandwich.
Lean Proteins. The NHLBI lists only two vegetarian sources of lean protein. The first is 1 ounce of low-fat cheese, such as cheddar, which contains 49 calories, 2 grams of fat and 6.9 grams of protein. The other is 1/4 cup of large-curd, 4.5-percent cottage cheese, which provides 5.8 grams of protein, 2.3 grams of fat and 51 calorie
Fish is an extremely health lean protein. Flounder and tilapia are the best choices. Canned tuna and salmon contain fat, but it is very healthy. Fish oil supplements and foods that contain fish oil regulate metabolism and hormones, and also reduce inflammation that can lead to diseases. Save. Eating foods that are rich in protein contributes to a healthy body. Protein helps the body build muscle mass and is also vital for tissues and organs. Some people fear that too much protein will make their muscles big and bulky or make them gain too much weight.
Dairy. Dairy is another high-protein food. But be careful when eating dairy--some things are very high in fat. Choose low-fat milks such as skim or 1 percent. Cottage, feta and ricotta cheeses are good choices. Protein shakes containing whey protein are also an excellent source of dairy protein. Save. Eating foods that are rich in protein contributes to a healthy body. Protein helps the body build muscle mass and is also vital for tissues and organs. Some people fear that too much protein will make their muscles big and bulky or make them gain too much weight.
7. Fish. Fish is not only a lean source of protein, but they also carry the healthy fatty acid Omega-3. This is why the American Heart Association recommends eating at least 2 servings of fish a week. Cod can be one of the best lean protein foods as 3 ounces contains only 89 calories and .7 grams of saturated fat. 