As you continue chewing, your mouthful becomes sweet if you're eating carbohydrates because enzymes in your saliva begin to break complex carbs down into simple sugars. Later, in the stomach and intestines, proteins and fats are also broken down by enzymes. Chemical digestion refers to the work performed by enzymes throughout your digestive tract, which break the bonds that hold molecules together so that proteins, carbohydrates and fats are split into single molecules.
Bile from the gallbladder also aids in the digestion and absorption of fats in the small intestine. The small intestine is responsible for most chemical digestion of food, and absorption of nutrients including proteins, fats, and carbohydrates. Once the small intestine has extracted the nutrients, the remaining waste proceeds to the large intestine. Enzymes in the saliva start the chemical digestion of food. Amylase starts the breakdown of carbohydrates, while salivary lipase begins the breakdown of fats.
Fats are broken down and digested into fatty acids and glycerol  Proteins are digested into amino acids  Carbohydrates are digested into simple sugars • Digestion involves mechanical and chemical processes. An enzyme is a protein that speeds up a chemical reaction; digestive enzymes speed up the breakdown of a food. 
Digestion of carbs begins in the mouth with the enzyme amylase. Digestion of proteins begins in the stomach with hydrochloric acid. Digestion continues in the small intestine. … The extremely acidic sludge triggers the pancreas to produce most of the digestive enzymes, which break down both carbs and proteins. An amino acid is a building block, a constituent, the base unit of polypeptides and thus of proteins. There are 20 different amino acids (valine, lysine, … aspartate, glutamate, glycine, tryptophan, phenylalanine and so on).
The __________ is the first segment of the small intestine. Duodenum. Digestion of carbohydrates and proteins by brush border enzymes occurs within the ________ of the small intestine. Microvilli. Bile is stored and concentrated in the __________
The complex carbohydrates in whole-grain bread are broken down by enzymes during digestion. Carbohydrates, abundantly present in foods such as breads, cereals, fruits and vegetables, are the main source of energy in a diet. This enzyme acts on the remaining polysaccharides and breaks them into disaccharide units of maltose. In the final step of complex carbohydrate digestion, the enzyme maltase present in the lining of the small intestine breaks maltose into two units of glucose. Glucose is then absorbed and enters the bloodstream
Salivary glands located under the tongue, and in the back of the mouth, produce saliva in the mouth. Enzymes in the saliva start the chemical digestion of food. Amylase starts the breakdown of carbohydrates, while salivary lipase begins the breakdown of fats. Once the food arrives at the stomach, gastric glands secrete pepsinogen and hydrochloric acid. Pepsinogen helps with the digestion of protein
Salivary Amylase. Chewing breaks food into small molecules that combine with saliva secreted by the salivary glands in the mouth. Along with mucin and buffers, saliva contains the enzyme salivary amylase, which acts on the starch in food and breaks it down to maltose. This enzyme acts on the remaining polysaccharides and breaks them into disaccharide units of maltose. In the final step of complex carbohydrate digestion, the enzyme maltase present in the lining of the small intestine breaks maltose into two units of glucose. Glucose is then absorbed and enters the bloodstream
Digestion is the breakdown of carbohydrates, proteins and fats into small soluble substances to be absorbed into the blood. Amylase, proteases and lipases are enzymes that are important in digestion. 1  1. 2  2. 3  3. 4  4. 5  5. 6  6. 7  7. 