1 Licensure by Examination If you wish to apply for RN licensure by examination and are a first-time candidate. 2  Reapply for Examination If you have previously taken the National Council Licensure Examination (NCLEX-RN) in California and did not pass. 3  Examination Identification Form. 1 Reinstatement of a Lapsed RN License For information on reinstatement of a California RN license that has been lapsed eight (8) years or longer. 2  Fingerprint Information. 3  Advanced Practice Certification If you are already licensed as an RN in California, and wish to be certified in an advanced practice certification.
There are essentially 2 paths you can take to obtain your California RN license by endorsement, the long path and the short path. Under normal circumstances, the long path typically takes six to eight weeks and the short path can take as little as 24 hours. The current fee for a temporary license is $50, which is in addition to the application fee of $100. In order to obtain a temporary license, the CBRN must receive and process all of the documentation described above except your college transcripts.
1 Request for a Temporary License (optional; check the appropriate box on the APPLICATION FOR LICENSURE BY ENDORSEMENT (page 11)) if you wish to begin work pending issuance of a permanent license. All applicants must provide the following (refer to the above application packet): 1  Appropriate fees as listed on the APPLICATION FEE SCHEDULE (page 1). 2  Completed APPLICATION FOR LICENSURE BY ENDORSEMENT (pages 10 & 11), including a U.S. social security number.
You may use this system to apply online for a Registered Nurse (RN) or Licensed Practical Nurse (LPN) license, Advanced Practice Registered Nurse (APRN) license, Advanced Unlicensed Assistant (AUA) certificate, or prescriptive authority recognition. 
1 Licensure by Endorsement If you are already a licensed RN in another state or U.S. territory and wish to obtain licensure in California. 2  Reinstatement of a Lapsed RN License For information on reinstatement of a California RN license that has been lapsed eight (8) years or longer. 3  Fingerprint Information. 1 Reinstatement of a Lapsed RN License For information on reinstatement of a California RN license that has been lapsed eight (8) years or longer. 2  Fingerprint Information. 3  Advanced Practice Certification If you are already licensed as an RN in California, and wish to be certified in an advanced practice certification.
IMPORTANT: Click for additional information for applicants with criminal convictions or discipline. 1  Request for a Temporary License (optional; check the appropriate box on the APPLICATION FOR LICENSURE BY ENDORSEMENT (page 11)) if you wish to begin work pending issuance of a permanent license. All applicants must provide the following (refer to the above application packet): 1  Appropriate fees as listed on the APPLICATION FEE SCHEDULE (page 1). 2  Completed APPLICATION FOR LICENSURE BY ENDORSEMENT (pages 10 & 11), including a U.S. social security number.
The cost to apply for RN by examination is $150 (http://www.rn.ca.gov/about_us/fees.shtml#apps). An interim permit or temporary license costs an additional $50. The examination itself costs $200, payable to Pearson. As part of the application process, candidates must verify their high school education or equivalency. Applicants must pay $150 to the California Board for application processing and $200 to Pearson to take the NCLEX-PN licensing test. California must approve candidates before they can be authorized to test.
Select the type of Nursing License you are seeking: 1  I am looking for Certified Nurse Assistant Requirements in California. 2  I am looking for Vocational Nursing License Requirements in California. 3  I am looking for Registered Nursing License Requirements in California. In California, there are two separate licensing agencies for nurses. Vocational Nurses (LVNs) are licensed by the Board of Vocational Nursing and Psychiatric Technicians. Registered Nurses are licensed by the California Board of Registered Nursing. As part of the application process, candidates must verify their high school education or equivalency. Applicants must pay $150 to the California Board for application processing and $200 to Pearson to take the NCLEX-PN licensing test. California must approve candidates before they can be authorized to test.
The fastest way to obtain your California Nursing License by Endorsement is to visit the California Board of Registered Nursing in person to turn in all the required documentation and perform the LiveScan nearby. We recommend the following steps. The current fee for a temporary license is $50, which is in addition to the application fee of $100. In order to obtain a temporary license, the CBRN must receive and process all of the documentation described above except your college transcripts.