Gatorade is a recommended beverage for those with diarrhea. Photo Credit sporting drink image by Ivonne Wierink from Fotolia.com. Diarrhea is a common medical condition that results from another medical condition and is treated with diet modification. Gatorade is a recommended way to increase liquid intake and help maintain proper absorption because it contains electrolytes. Talk with your doctor before using Gatorade to treat your condition.
Eat small portions of bland foods, such as bananas, toast, boiled potatoes, white rice, cooked carrots and crackers. Avoid foods that are high in fiber, high in fat and contain spice. Do not eat or drink products that contain dairy, caffeine or alcohol. Gatorade is a recommended way to increase liquid intake and help maintain proper absorption because it contains electrolytes. Talk with your doctor before using Gatorade to treat your condition.
Report Abuse. The idea is to keep lots of fluids in your system!! I tend to not like Gatorade because it's full of sugar. And I personally wouldn't recommend anything sweetened with artificial sweeteners either. You might wish to try unsweetened Pedialyte instead. I would try drinking plenty of water. Best Answer: it will not help to stop it, but it will help you from getting dehydrated from it. it is very important to keep yourself hydrated when you have diarrhea, as it can leave your body very dehydrated, which can be dangerous.
A Stacy Wiegman, PharmD, Pharmacy, answered. Electrolytes do not necessarily help you to treat your diarrhea, but rather electrolytes help you to prevent dehydration while you are suffering from diarrhea. Electrolytes are essential to keeping hydrated while you have diarrhea, as they make up for many lost nutrients. Electrolytes do not necessarily help you to treat your diarrhea, but rather electrolytes help you to prevent dehydration while you are suffering from diarrhea
Gatorade actually replenishes the ions (electrolytes) lost during a bout with diarrhea. I don't think replacing Gatorade for soda is that much better, but it's certainly not worse and no, it doesn't cause diarrhea. Source(s): Med student and married to a doctor. TJTB · 8 years ago. Gatorade is actually good for when you have diarrhea. However, you can drink too much of it and that can be a bad thing.
A viral intestinal infection such as the stomach flu is one cause of diarrhea. It is usually accompanied with nausea, vomiting and at times a slight fever. Using antibiotics can also cause diarrhea because antibiotics kill bacteria in the gut that helps regulate your bowels. Food poisoning causes diarrhea within two to four hours after consuming food or beverages that are contaminated with viruses, parasites or bacteria, according to The Body. Gatorade is a recommended way to increase liquid intake and help maintain proper absorption because it contains electrolytes. Talk with your doctor before using Gatorade to treat your condition.
Sports Drinks. Many people with chronic diarrhea treat their dehydration with sports drinks such as Gatorade ® . Sports drinks are formulated to replace electrolytes lost in sweat during exercise. The quantities of sodium and potassium are not high enough to replace those lost by chronic diarrhea. Nevertheless, sports drinks may work for those with mild diarrhea, or if you are unable to access a better alternative. While uncommon, those with chronic diarrhea can be at risk for hyponatremia, or low blood levels of sodium, due to extra losses from the stool. Symptoms of low blood sodium include: 1  loss of energy. 2  fatigue. 3  muscle weakness or cramps. 4  confusion.