Ambergris occurs as a bile duct secretion of the intestines of the sperm whale and can be found floating upon the sea, or lying on the coast. It is also sometimes found in the abdomens of whales.
Perfumes & Colognes That Contain Ambergris. Ambergris is a solid, waxy, flammable substance of a dull grey or blackish color and is produced in the digestive system of the sperm whale. Ambergris was long thought of as whale vomit, but it is actually passed as fecal matter.
Ambergris is a waxy substance that comes from the intestines of the sperm whale and pygmy sperm whale. The exact function of ambergris is not known, but ambergris often contains the beaks of squid, leading researchers to think it helps aid digestion and protects the whale from the sharp parts of its prey.
Sources [edit]. Ambergris occurs as a bile duct secretion of the intestines of the sperm whale and can be found floating upon the sea, or lying on the coast. It is also sometimes found in the abdomens of whales.
Ambergris has been used since ancient times in perfumes, medicines and food. It is still used as a scent and fixative in perfumes, and even in drinks and delicacies. It is described as having a musky, animalistic, sweet smell.
Ambergris occurs as a biliary secretion of the intestines of the sperm whale and can be found floating upon the sea, or in the sand near the coast. It is also sometimes found in the abdomens of whales.
Ambergris, which comes from some species of sperm whale, is one of the most valuable raw materials in perfumery. It's rare, and the fragrance it exudes is just as rare. In perfumes ambergris is used as a fixative and its presence can be best described as marine, animalic and sweet.
Ambergris has been mostly known for its use in creating perfume and fragrance much like musk. Perfumes can still be found with ambergris around the world. It is collected from remains found at sea and on beaches, although its precursor originates from the sperm whale, which is a vulnerable species.