Cilantro is the leaves of the coriander plant, Coriandrum sativum. As well as the leaves, the seeds are often used in cooking. Parsley, Petroselium crispum, has two varieties: curly and flat-leaf, known popularly as Italian parsley. The first difference between cilantro and parsley is appearance. Cilantro is easily differentiated from curly parsley, which has thickly ruffled leaves. Flat-leaf parsley is a little harder to distinguish as both this type of parsley and cilantro leaves are flat, three-lobed, and serrated and appear very similar.
Chinese parsley, on the other hand, is not parsley at all! It's actually cilantro (which also is called coriander). Although cilantro is related to the parsley family and looks a lot like flat-leaf parsley, its leaves have a distinctly different smell, a deeper emerald color, and a much stronger flavor.
Coriander is also known as Chinese parsley. It is called cilantro in America. Heat diminishes the flavor of coriander leaves so is used at the end of cooking. There are two types of parsley, Curly Leaf and the Italian Flat Leaf.
For the novice cook, the difference between Italian Flat Leaf Parsley and Cilantro can be confusing at first since they are often located near each other in the produce aisle. There is one very easy rule of thumb that can help anyone (even my dad) differentiate between the two.
Coriander is actually part of the parsley family. Its leaves (technically called cilantro) have a stronger, more distinctive flavor that can dominate a dish (as opposed to plain, or Italian parsley, that is more mild). For many, it's an acquired taste -- some people feel it tastes like soap.
Apiaceae. • The plant Cilantro is an annual herb, and parsley is a biennial herb. • Parsley is native to Europe and western Asia, while the plant Coriandrum sativum is native to Mediterranean region. • The leaves of Cilantro are compound and alternatively arranged, whereas Parsley has tripinnate curly leaves.
Cilantro, which is also known as coriander, is an herb that is used in Asia, Middle East, and Latin America. Cilantro and coriander are the same things and there is hardly any difference between them. Cilantro and coriander, which are used the world over have different names in different countries.