You get the idea…it doesn’t cost much to eat in India. And even a filling meal at the rooftop restaurant of a nice hotel in a touristy town will probably only set you back around 200 – 300 Rps per person. I am talking with a guide from India and the price for a tour on Rajasthan with two meal, accomodation, transport and some some activities (elefant ride, camel ride…etc) it’s like $70,00 per day.
(0) Comment |. A fast-food meal may sound like a good deal, especially when you don’t have time to prepare breakfast or lunch. A comparison of cost vs. nutritional value, however, paints a very different picture. The average cost of a combo meal at a fast food restaurant is $4 to $7. Preparing a comparable meal at home costs about the same, but the real savings are in the calories, fat, and sodium
For example, if your overhead is $2,000 per day and you serve 250 customers daily, your overhead cost per person is $8. Include allowances for employee meals and food theft in the overhead figure, since these are not direct costs to serve a customer meal. Use your overhead costs to guide you. For example, if you sell a meal for $12 and have an $8 overhead cost, your food costs must be no more than $4 to break even. If you want a profit of $2 per plate, your sales price would then need to be $14, giving you a food-cost percentage of about 29 percent. If you feel your market will not support meals that cost more than $14, your chef will need to prepare menu items for no more than $4 each
Summary and Conclusions Food demand is an important component of the agricultural sector and much food preparation occurs in the home. As demand responds to price, it is important to understand that the ‘full price’ of food involves not only the market cost of food but also the preparation cost. However, with the debut of the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ (BLS) 2004 American Time Use Survey (ATUS) data, there is now time diary data available for the United States and this data includes time spent in food preparation. From this data the time cost of food preparation at home can be estimated.
To get an idea of how much the Thrifty Food Plan Menus may cost in terms of. preparation time, the cost per day measures in the last two rows of table 5 are based on. the average time estimates from the Thrifty Food Plan Menus for preparing a single meal. However, with the debut of the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ (BLS) 2004 American Time Use Survey (ATUS) data, there is now time diary data available for the United States and this data includes time spent in food preparation. From this data the time cost of food preparation at home can be estimated.
Step 4. Divide the menu price by the food cost to determine the percentage of the price that comes from food to begin determining if you have priced the meal correctly. For example, if you sell a meal for $18 and your food costs for that meal are $6, your food cost is 33 percent. Use your overhead costs to guide you. For example, if you sell a meal for $12 and have an $8 overhead cost, your food costs must be no more than $4 to break even. If you want a profit of $2 per plate, your sales price would then need to be $14, giving you a food-cost percentage of about 29 percent. If you feel your market will not support meals that cost more than $14, your chef will need to prepare menu items for no more than $4 each
Average cost of food in London. UK cost of Food and drink. The following list gives information about cost of supermarket food in UK. 1  Average price of a sandwich is probably £1.50 - £4.00. 2  Average price of an Indian and Chinese buffet lunch per person(eat as much as you can) is £5-00 to £7-00. 1 Average price of dinner (with drinks) per person in an Indian or Chinese restaurant is £8-00 to £25-00. 2  Average price of dinner (with drinks) per person in an Italian restaurant is £10-00 to £50-00.
Regarding cost, the cost of time in preparing a TFP recipe based meal at home is. estimated to range from $6.35 to $6.95 whereas for the same amount of time in the. market the cost of food preparation is $5.65. However, with the debut of the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ (BLS) 2004 American Time Use Survey (ATUS) data, there is now time diary data available for the United States and this data includes time spent in food preparation. From this data the time cost of food preparation at home can be estimated.
You can all varieties of food here, along with the traditional food you can also find the Chinese, Indian, French.. Though the cost is bit high, you can cook food in home, can prepare a home country food if you are not adjusted with the UK food. 1 Average price of dinner (with drinks) per person in an Indian or Chinese restaurant is £8-00 to £25-00. 2  Average price of dinner (with drinks) per person in an Italian restaurant is £10-00 to £50-00.