Trecco Bay is a large, sandy and rocky Blue Flag beach. Trecco Bay holiday park is situated alongside the beach. Sandy Bay, with the area in front of the fairground known as Coney Beach, is a large sheltered and sandy beach. There are three golf courses to the north of the town including Royal Porthcawl Golf Club, which attracts players from around the world. Porthcawl is home also home to football side Porthcawl Town Athletic F.C. which boasts a 1st, Reserve and 3rd team as well as numerous junior teams. Rugby also has a rich heritage with Rugby Union team Porthcawl RFC and Rugby League side Bridgend Blue Bulls both playing in Porthcawl
Porthcawl Primary School is a state school located in Porthcawl. The school is a mixed school for boys and girls between the ages of 3 to 11 years which includes a Foundation Phase Area admitting pupils of nursery age. There are three golf courses to the north of the town including Royal Porthcawl Golf Club, which attracts players from around the world. Porthcawl is home also home to football side Porthcawl Town Athletic F.C. which boasts a 1st, Reserve and 3rd team as well as numerous junior teams. Rugby also has a rich heritage with Rugby Union team Porthcawl RFC and Rugby League side Bridgend Blue Bulls both playing in Porthcawl
home. Whether you prefer the thrills of the funfair, a quiet walk along the promenade or a lazy day sunning yourself on one of our fine beaches, Porthcawl can provide for all your requirements. Porthcawl Tourism is what this site is about. You will be able to enjoy good food and hospitality at the many Inns, Restaurants or Hotels in the Town Centre, and in the nearby picturesque villages of Newton and Nottage. 
Porthcawl is a town and community on the south coast of Wales in the county borough of Bridgend, 25 miles (40 km) west of the capital city, Cardiff and 19 miles (31 km) southeast of Swansea. There are three golf courses to the north of the town including Royal Porthcawl Golf Club, which attracts players from around the world. Porthcawl is home also home to football side Porthcawl Town Athletic F.C. which boasts a 1st, Reserve and 3rd team as well as numerous junior teams. Rugby also has a rich heritage with Rugby Union team Porthcawl RFC and Rugby League side Bridgend Blue Bulls both playing in Porthcawl
Situated on the south coast between Cardiff and Swansea, Porthcawl is a popular destination for daytrippers, offering a sandy beachfront, a funfair and various attractions. 
Own Your Own. Find a fun time with a holiday home at Trecco Bay One of the largest holiday parks in the UK, there’s so much to do and there’s even a beautiful Blue Flag Beach right next to the park. Find out more. Fantastic choice of caravan holiday homes including brand new models with double glazing and central heating.
George, United Kingdom. Situated in the centre of Porthcawl, this hotel has its own health club, a sports bar and diner, and free Wi-Fi. The coast can be reached in 5 minutes on foot. Guests at The Porthcawl Hotel can enjoy free use of the leisure facilities, which include a fully equipped gym.
Rest Bay beach Porthcawl © Crown copyright (2013) Visit Wales. The seaside town of Porthcawl developed as a coal port in the 19th century but because of developments at other larger ports this trade declined and in line with many coastal resorts in the Victorian era the town developed its tourist trade. Balmoral Pleasure Steamer Porthcawl. © Crown copyright (2013) Visit Wales. The area around Porthcawl also has a number of interesting venues that you may be interested in, these range from the Mythyr Mawr and Kenfig Dunes National Natures Reserves and for those interested in historic buildings there is Newcastle and Ogmore Castle with all these venues being within six miles of