Snow Lotus is Kutha in Hindi. It is associated to the Asteraceae family. It is an aborigine of the Indian subcontinent. It ceases Hair complaints namely Hair fall, Baldness, Alopecia and Early Greying. It is beneficial in combating Fever and Headaches. Snow Lotus is effective in treating Joint troubles namely Gout, Synovitis, Osteoarthritis and Rheumatoid Arthritis. It is helpful in curing Menopausal troubles namely Amenorrhea and Dysmenorrhea. Being an Aphrodisiac, it works on boosting the Semen Quality and Count.
Welcome to Snow Lotus. Step into another world, another time, another place. Whether it is to pamper yourself, heal yourself or refresh yourself, the team at Snow Lotus is ready and able to meet your specific need. Our passion, simply, is the healing nature of Chinese remedial massage.
Common names include saw-wort and snow lotus, the latter used for a number of high altitude species in central Asia. They are perennial herbaceous plants, ranging in height from dwarf alpine species 5–10 cm tall, to tall thistle-like plants up to 3 m tall. Costi amari radix or costus root was an important item of Roman trade with India, and is believed to have been the dried root of Saussurea lappa. Several varieties of snow lotus are used in traditional Tibetan medicine. Saussurea lappa is used a component of the traditional Tibetan medicine Padma 28
Snow Lotus. (Saussurea laniceps and S. involucrata). The snow lotus (Saussurea laniceps) is a high altitude plant (over 12,000 feet above sea level) with brilliant white flowers appearing over dark green leaves which grow through the rocks of mountain peaks.
The Snow Lotus Plant is said to contain medicinal properties and was used for centuries by medical practitioners in China and Tibet. It remains a cure for certain diseases and health enhancement. THE REQUIREMENTS – MUST NOTE! 1  An extreme clean and dry base environment to place your preparatory utensils. 
Snow Lotus is the love child of afgooey and a x19 leaning blockhead male (no sweetooth traits present) and lets the female traits pass through in a cross while uping the size, frost, and potency. 
Snow Lotus Enzyme Enzymes are protein molecules which is responsible for all biological activities in human cells. Enzymes are organic catalysts that increase the rate at which foods are broken down and absorbed by the body and help various metabolic functions in the body take place. Enzyme can break down particular compounds. Snow Lotus Enzyme are a delicate life like substance found in all living cells whether animal or vegetable. Snow Lotus Enzyme are energized protein molecules necessary for life. They catalyze and regulate nearly all biochemical reactions that occur within the human body
Saussurea is a genus of about 300 species of flowering plants in the thistle tribe within the daisy family, native to cool temperate and arctic regions of Asia, Europe, and North America, with the highest diversity in alpine habitats in the Himalaya and central Asia. Costi amari radix or costus root was an important item of Roman trade with India, and is believed to have been the dried root of Saussurea lappa. Several varieties of snow lotus are used in traditional Tibetan medicine. Saussurea lappa is used a component of the traditional Tibetan medicine Padma 28