A mercury switch (also known as a mercury tilt switch) is a switch which opens and closes an electrical circuit through a small amount of liquid mercury. Contents. The envelope may also contain air, an inert gas, or a vacuum. Gravity is constantly pulling the drop of mercury to the lowest point in the envelope. When the switch is tilted in the appropriate direction, the mercury touches a set of contacts, thus completing the electrical circuit through those contacts.
Mercury relays consist of a vertical (usually glass) tube containing liquid mercury. They have isolated contacts at the bottom of the tube and partway up, usually in a side arm of the glass. The relay works by displacement. The mercury relay thus allows for switching of higher currents with a small control current for a large number of cycles. They are often installed into automatic controllers that required extended periods of unattended continuous switching operation.
Mercury light switches are often found in the car's hood and trunk convenience lighting. The light assembly contains a small steel canister or pellet that contains liquid mercury. For some assemblies, it is easier to leave the pellet in place and discard the entire assembly into a leakproof recycling container. The National Vehicle Mercury Switch Recovery Program (NVMSRP) estimates that 67 million of these switches are available for recovery nationwide. Mercury is a toxin that affects the nervous system and the brain. It is particularly damaging to a developing fetus and young child.
1 You must dispose of a glass-encased mercury switch at a facility that is licensed to treat, store or dispose of hazardous waste, and you must use a licensed hazardous waste transporter for the shipment. 2  Do not mix glass-encased mercury switches in the collection bucket with metal-encased mercury switches. The National Vehicle Mercury Switch Recovery Program (NVMSRP) estimates that 67 million of these switches are available for recovery nationwide. Mercury is a toxin that affects the nervous system and the brain. It is particularly damaging to a developing fetus and young child.
A mercury relay (mercury displacement relay, mercury contactor) is a relay that uses mercury as the switching element. They are used as high-current switches or contactors, where contact erosion from constant cycling would be a problem for conventional relay contacts. The mercury relay thus allows for switching of higher currents with a small control current for a large number of cycles. They are often installed into automatic controllers that required extended periods of unattended continuous switching operation.
Mercury Use in Switches and Relays summarizes the use of mercury in switches and relays sold as individual components and within final products, such as automobiles, space heaters, or pumps. 1 It does not include mercury-added switches and relays sold prior to January 1, 2001 or exported outside of the U.S. 2  Reported data includes only mercury that is used in the product, and does not include mercury emitted during mining, manufacturing, or other points in the products' life cycle.
Description [edit]. Mercury switches have one or more sets of electrical contacts in a sealed glass envelope which contains a bead of mercury. The envelope may also contain air, an inert gas, or a vacuum. Gravity is constantly pulling the drop of mercury to the lowest point in the envelope. When the switch is tilted in the appropriate direction, the mercury touches a set of contacts, thus completing the electrical circuit through those contacts.
10 most extreme places on Earth. A mercury switch consists of a sealed glass tube containing two unconnected electrodes and a small amount of liquid mercury. As long as the liquid metal remains on the opposite end of the tube, the electrodes remain disconnected and no current will flow. Because a mercury switch is motion-based, some car manufacturers use them to activate hood and trunk lights. As the lid is raised, the mercury switch becomes tilted and an electrical connection is made between the car's battery and the light bulb.
Mercury auto switches were used to control convenience lighting and anti-lock brake systems (ABS) in many vehicles manufactured prior to model year 2003. The National Vehicle Mercury Switch Recovery Program (NVMSRP) estimates that 67 million of these switches are available for recovery nationwide. Mercury is a toxin that affects the nervous system and the brain. It is particularly damaging to a developing fetus and young child.