Multitronic offers performance and economy similar to, and in some cases better than, the equivalent five-speed manual gearboxes, and superior to the traditional automatic transmission. Particular performance advantages are noticed with 'in-gear' seamless acceleration times over equivalent manual transmission cars. The transmission is monitored and regulated by Audi 's Dynamic Regulating Programme (DRP), which tracks the driver's inputs (from how the driver applies the throttle pedal), driving conditions, and engine load-to compute the optimal gear ratio for fuel efficiency or maximum performance, as mandated by the user.
Garage. S-Tronic and Multitronic are very different. Multitronic that you have on your 2.7TDI is effectively not a traditional auto box, but rather a CVT (continuously variable transmission). This is effectively 8 speeds in operation.
Multitronic is offered on front wheel drive-only versions of the Audi A4, Audi A5, Audi A6, and the SEAT Exeo with the 2.0 TSI gasoline engine. It is not compatible with the quattro four-wheel drive system, nor transverse engine installations such as in the Audi A3. The transmission is monitored and regulated by Audi 's Dynamic Regulating Programme (DRP), which tracks the driver's inputs (from how the driver applies the throttle pedal), driving conditions, and engine load-to compute the optimal gear ratio for fuel efficiency or maximum performance, as mandated by the user.
Multitronic is a stepless transmission launched by AUDI AG in late 1999, jointly developed and manufactured by LuK, a division of the Schaeffler Group The capitalization used is multitronic (spelled by Audi with a lower-case leading 'm') and is a registered trademark of AUDI AG. The transmission is monitored and regulated by Audi 's Dynamic Regulating Programme (DRP), which tracks the driver's inputs (from how the driver applies the throttle pedal), driving conditions, and engine load-to compute the optimal gear ratio for fuel efficiency or maximum performance, as mandated by the user.
The Audi A6 with Audi's newly-developed multitronic represents a radically new departure in that it: has better acceleration uses less fuel, and provides a more comfortable ride than a comparable car with a 5-speed manual gearbox. The multitronic entertains no compromises-whether in terms of dynamism, convenience or economy-in translating the driver's preferences into road performance. As matters stand, it can justifiably claim to be the concept that translates the driver's intentions with the greatest degree of accuracy.
Introduction 6000500040003000200050km/h 100km/h 150km/h 200km/h 250km/h1000 multitronic ® for maximum comfort In automatic mode, any ratio is possible within the bounds of the control map. The factors that determine rpm are driver input (accelerator pedal position and actuation rate) and traction resistance. 8. Introduction 6000500040003000200050km/h 100km/h 150km/h 200km/h 250km/h1000 multitronic ® for high fuel economy As a result of the long ratio, a large reduction in engine speed is possible in the economy driving mode.In comparison with the 5-speed manual gearbox, engine speed for example is reduced from approx.
The Multitronic system uses a link-plate chain drive, an oil-cooled multi-plate clutch (initially of six parts, later of seven to enable it to cope better with the high torque outputs of larger turbodiesel engines), and complex electronics, to overcome the traditional shortcomings of CVTs. The transmission is monitored and regulated by Audi 's Dynamic Regulating Programme (DRP), which tracks the driver's inputs (from how the driver applies the throttle pedal), driving conditions, and engine load-to compute the optimal gear ratio for fuel efficiency or maximum performance, as mandated by the user.
Report Abuse. Tiptronic/multitronic is essentially a automatic transmission with the ability to be turned into a manual without a clutch. Mainly purchased by men and women in their mid forties ... honestly audi and vw (same engines and transmissions) have shitty automatic transmissions ... they are really weak
Multitronic is a stepless transmission launched by AUDI AG in late 1999, jointly developed and manufactured by LuK. The capitalization used is multitronic and is a registered trademark of AUDI AG. 