The cheese is buried in a fossa or pit, like the one shown here. Formaggio di Fossa is a cheese from Sogliano al Rubicone in the Emilia-Romagna region of Italy. The cheese's name, which literally means cheese of the pit , is derived from the process of ripening the cheese in special underground pits. Fossa cheese is made with either sheep's milk, cow's milk, or a mixture of the two. The cheese typically matures around 30 days before being placed in the fossa, a pit dug into the ground and lined with straw. The pit is prepared by burning straw inside to remove moisture and sterilize the space.
Search also in: Web News Encyclopedia Images Context. formaggio, gi sm cheese un panino con il formaggio a cheese roll formaggi Italy produces a wide range of cheeses made from cow's, sheep's, goat's and buffalo milk, with many different regional varieties. Cheeses are classified not only according to the type of milk but also according to age, texture and fat content. formaggio. Translation Italian-English Collins Dictionary &nbsp. See also: formaggio pecorino, formaggino, foraggio, formaggiera.
Our popular tasting classes offer an opportunity to experience an exquisite selection of products and recipes. Formaggio Kitchen mongers choose cheeses that are tasting best at the time and pair them with wine, beer and classic, sometimes surprising, accompaniments. Classes usually run about 1.5-2 hours. For classes held at our Huron Avenue location, we conduct a short tour of our cheese cave at the end of each class. 
Preheat oven to 350°F. Mix ricotta cheese, 1 1/2 cups of the mozzarella cheese, eggs, garlic powder, Italian seasoning, parsley, salt and pepper in large bowl until well blended. Pour marinara sauce into medium bowl. Pour water into empty jar; cover and shake well. Add to marinara sauce; mix well. 
Formaggi sauce is a cheese-based sauce, typically served on pasta. As the name implies, it has its origins in Italian cuisine, although other cultures have variants on the sauce as well. In addition to being served on pasta, this sauce may be used as a garnish on an assortment of other dishes. Blocks of sharp cheddar cheese, which can be used in a formaggi sauce. Formaggi sauces often include ricotta cheese. Gouda cheese is often used in formaggi sauce. Many formaggi sauces begin as a basic cream sauce, and then cheese is slowly added.
The distinguishing feature of formaggi sauce is cheese, as formaggio means “cheese” in Italian. It may be made with one or many cheeses, depending on the taste of the cook and what is available. Once classic form is quattro formaggi, which is made with four cheeses. Blocks of sharp cheddar cheese, which can be used in a formaggi sauce. Formaggi sauces often include ricotta cheese. Gouda cheese is often used in formaggi sauce. Many formaggi sauces begin as a basic cream sauce, and then cheese is slowly added.
Even though Italy is a pretty small place, its regions are quite different from one another. And cheese ('formaggio ', in Italian) is one of the products that changes the most across the territories. And this even when the cheese name is indeed an adjective (for instance in the case of Parmesan which means 'from the city of Parma' - in Italian you just say Parmigiano, in English Parmesan cheese is instead more common).