Larceny, as a crime, carries a felony charge and is often distinguished from theft by the property involved in the commission of the act, as well as how the act was committed. True theft is usually centered around the acquisition of money and if force is involved, then it becomes aggravated theft or mugging.
Under New York’s criminal laws, Larceny is synonymous with Theft. If you have been charged with Larceny, Grand Larceny, Petit / Petty Larceny, it means that the State of New York alleges that you have stolen something. A shoplifting offense is charged as a larceny crime.
Larceny is a serious crime under Virginia law, and the penalties can be unusually strict. Even a first offense larceny/shoplifting charge is a felony if the item stolen is valued at over $200. Any shoplifting or larceny charge of items worth under $200 is still a serious misdemeanor criminal charge.
Overview of California Theft and Larceny Law. Theft (also called larceny) is a crime against property under the laws of California. To prove theft, a prosecutor must establish the defendant's intent to permanently take or withhold the property owner's possession or right to the property.
1 For example, if you steal a car, firearm, or motorboat, this is usually considered felony theft regardless of the property's actual value. 2  Criminal history felonies. 3  In some states, repeat criminal offenders can also face a felony theft charge even if the value of the property stolen does not exceed the felony limit.
Grand Larceny: The theft of $200 or more, $5 or more from a person, or the theft of a firearm (regardless of the value). This is a felony punishable by one to twenty years in prison. Petit Larceny: The theft of money or property valued less than $200, or less than $5 if from a person. This is a Class 1 misdemeanor punished by less than one year in jail.
Under Connecticut Criminal Laws, larceny is a charge that includes any kind of theft like shoplifting, receiving stolen property, or auto theft. It also includes embezzlement, false pretenses, and theft by fraud.