It is also called alien life, or, if it is a sentient and/or relatively complex individual, an extraterrestrial or alien (or, to avoid confusion with the legal sense of alien , a  space alien ). If extraterrestrial life was found on another body in the Solar System, it could have originated from Earth just as life on Earth may have been seeded from elsewhere (exogenesis). The first known mention of the term 'panspermia' was in the writings of the 5th century BC Greek philosopher Anaxagoras.
You have the letters E.T., The acronym for Extraterrestrials or Extra-Terra-Astrals meaning Extra beings that are on the planet TERRA (earth) that are Astral of or from the stars. When you look at the very word Planet you see Plan-E.T. So an Extraterrestrial can be any thing from a meteorite or comet to a being from another planet. There are many kinds of Extraterrestrials in your midst. They live in the waters of the ocean and on the surface of the earth and inside the earth. One type you should be aware of are the Reptilians who humans should feel threatened by.
The possibility of extraterrestrial life on the Moon was ruled out in the 1960s, and during the 1970s it became clear that most of the other bodies of the Solar System do not harbor highly developed life, although the question of primitive life on bodies in the Solar System remains an open question. If extraterrestrial life was found on another body in the Solar System, it could have originated from Earth just as life on Earth may have been seeded from elsewhere (exogenesis). The first known mention of the term 'panspermia' was in the writings of the 5th century BC Greek philosopher Anaxagoras.
The science of extraterrestrial life is known as exobiology. The science of astrobiology also considers life on Earth as well, and in the broader astronomical context. Meteorites that have fallen to Earth have sometimes been examined for signs of microscopic extraterrestrial life. The possibility of extraterrestrial life on the Moon was ruled out in the 1960s, and during the 1970s it became clear that most of the other bodies of the Solar System do not harbor highly developed life, although the question of primitive life on bodies in the Solar System remains an open question.
• EXTRATERRESTRIAL (noun). The noun EXTRATERRESTRIAL has 1 sense: 1. a form of life assumed to exist outside the Earth or its atmosphere. Familiarity information: EXTRATERRESTRIAL used as a noun is very rare. • EXTRATERRESTRIAL (adjective). The adjective EXTRATERRESTRIAL has 1 sense: 1. originating or located or occurring outside Earth or its atmosphere. Familiarity information: EXTRATERRESTRIAL used as an adjective is very rare.
Humans tend to make a savior or satan figures out of extraterrestrials or extra density beings. In doing so, they hope to negate responsibility for their misdeeds by appointing scapegoats. It is a self defeating strategy. There are many kinds of Extraterrestrials in your midst. They live in the waters of the ocean and on the surface of the earth and inside the earth. One type you should be aware of are the Reptilians who humans should feel threatened by.
Extraterrestrial life is life that does not originate from Earth. It is also called alien life, or, if it is a sentient and/or relatively complex individual, an extraterrestrial or alien (or, to avoid confusion with the legal sense of alien , a  space alien ). The possibility of extraterrestrial life on the Moon was ruled out in the 1960s, and during the 1970s it became clear that most of the other bodies of the Solar System do not harbor highly developed life, although the question of primitive life on bodies in the Solar System remains an open question.
The science of extraterrestrial life is known as exobiology. The science of astrobiology also considers life on Earth as well, and in the broader astronomical context. Meteorites that have fallen to Earth have sometimes been examined for signs of microscopic extraterrestrial life. If extraterrestrial life was found on another body in the Solar System, it could have originated from Earth just as life on Earth may have been seeded from elsewhere (exogenesis). The first known mention of the term 'panspermia' was in the writings of the 5th century BC Greek philosopher Anaxagoras.
Since the mid-20th century, there has been an ongoing search for signs of extraterrestrial intelligence, from radios used to detect possible extraterrestrial signals, to telescopes used to search for potentially habitable extrasolar planets. It has also played a major role in works of science fiction. The possibility of extraterrestrial life on the Moon was ruled out in the 1960s, and during the 1970s it became clear that most of the other bodies of the Solar System do not harbor highly developed life, although the question of primitive life on bodies in the Solar System remains an open question.
These as-yet-hypothetical life forms range from simple bacteria-like organisms to beings with civilizations far more advanced than humanity. Although many scientists expect extraterrestrial life to exist, so far no unambiguous evidence for its existence exists. If extraterrestrial life was found on another body in the Solar System, it could have originated from Earth just as life on Earth may have been seeded from elsewhere (exogenesis). The first known mention of the term 'panspermia' was in the writings of the 5th century BC Greek philosopher Anaxagoras.