Definition. Candidiasis is an infection caused by a species of the yeast Candida, usually Candida albicans. This is a common cause of vaginal infections in women. Also, Candida may cause mouth infections in people with reduced immune function, or in patients taking certain antibiotics. candidiasis. infection by fungi of the genus Candida, generally C. albicans, most commonly involving the skin, oral mucosa (thrush), respiratory tract, or vagina; occasionally there is a systemic infection or endocarditis.
Local Infection. Localized infection is a common cause of erythematous and ulcerative oral lesions. The most common organisms responsible for oral infection include viruses, fungi and yeast, and bacteria. The following sections discuss the management of the most commonly observed oral infections. Erythematous candidiasis is characterized by generalized tissue erythema and pain. When present on the tongue, the condition has been termed median rhomboid glossitis or central papillary atrophy. When generalized, it has been termed denture stomatitis or chronic atrophic candidiasis.
Erythematous = red: Erythematous simply means red. The most common reason is due to increased blood flow as part of an inflammatory process. Rectal erythematous mucosa also called a proctitis caused by sexually transmitted diseases, inflammatory bowel diseases, infections and radiation therapy. 
Oral candidiasis (also known as oral candidosis, oral thrush, oropharyngeal candidiasis, moniliasis, candidal stomatitis, muguet) is candidiasis that occurs in the mouth. That is, oral candidiasis is a mycosis (yeast/fungal infection) of Candida species on the mucous membranes of the mouth. Candida albicans is the most commonly implicated organism in this condition. It is possible for candidiasis to spread to/from the mouth, from sites such as the pharynx, esophagus, lungs, liver, anogenital region, skin or the nails. The spread of oral candidiasis to other sites is usually occurs in debilitated individuals. It is also possible that candidiasis is spread by sexual contact.
Confidence votes 50.7K. RN, FNP. Erythematous mucosa means red mucous membranes. For instance, if you had a sore throat, you might have erythematous mucosa. mucosa is a moist tissue that lines your nose, mouth, lungs and digestive tract. glands along the mucosa releases mucus that protect you from pathogens.
Many conditions can cause oral erythema, including localized trauma, infection, contact allergy, cancer, and other causes of inflammatory changes, as well as systemic diseases such as those that produce vesiculoerosive lesions or oral ulceration. Erythematous candidiasis is characterized by generalized tissue erythema and pain. When present on the tongue, the condition has been termed median rhomboid glossitis or central papillary atrophy. When generalized, it has been termed denture stomatitis or chronic atrophic candidiasis.
A mouth ulcer (also termed an oral ulcer, or a mucosal ulcer) is an ulcer that occurs on the mucous membrane of the oral cavity. Mouth ulcers are very common, occurring in association with many diseases and by many different mechanisms, but usually there is no serious underlying cause. 
atrophic candidiasis a type of oral candidiasis marked by erythematous pebbled patches on the hard or soft palate, buccal mucosa, and dorsal surface of the tongue. bronchopulmonary candidiasis bronchocandidiasis; that found in the respiratory tract. candidiasis. infection by fungi of the genus Candida, generally C. albicans, most commonly involving the skin, oral mucosa (thrush), respiratory tract, or vagina; occasionally there is a systemic infection or endocarditis.
The general rationale for dental treatment of oral erythematous lesions is to relieve symptoms, to prevent problems that arise from the disease (eg, secondary infection, tissue morbidity), and to support the patient’s general health. Erythematous candidiasis is characterized by generalized tissue erythema and pain. When present on the tongue, the condition has been termed median rhomboid glossitis or central papillary atrophy. When generalized, it has been termed denture stomatitis or chronic atrophic candidiasis.