IRIS KOTO System is more than an IBS, it is also a smart, green, high speed, energy-efficient, sustainable, fully integrated building system for commercial, high rise, upmarket and affordable housing projects. The benefits are huge – the cost savings are huge, projects can be completed faster with improved cash flow, resulting in happier house owners. This intelligent building system will reduce transport costs, carbon footprints, reduce interest payments and loan portfolio.
Please try again later. Video Produced by UP Multimedia for IRIS Corporation Berhad and KOTO Corp's collaboration on the KOTO Building System. The Video shows the building of a single storey house in 7 days, it is the ultimate green solution to keep the house cool in summer and warm in winter.
Please try again later. IRIS KOTO System is a smart, green, high-speed, energy-efficient, sustainable, fully integrated building system for commercial, high rise, upmarket and affordable housing projects. 
The poor have returned to normal lives with dignity on every Iris Koto project, where they are set to become the next generation of entrepreneurs wherever the Koto 8 Building System, Food Security and Job Creation package is used. This is a Global First completed on a large scale and the results speak for themselves. Essentially, the standard Koto 8 system is a series of light-weight, insulated permanent composite forms that remain permanently in-situ after installation, albeit walls, floors or roofs. More about the Koto 8 STRUCTURAL ENGINEERING description can be found here.
IRIS KOTO components are lightweight and made from fire-retardant, rigid cellular insulation and fibre-reinforced mineral composite. This building system requires minimal tools, unskilled labour, uses far less concrete and steel, no connections or fixing and no timber form work. The benefits are huge – the cost savings are huge, projects can be completed faster with improved cash flow, resulting in happier house owners. This intelligent building system will reduce transport costs, carbon footprints, reduce interest payments and loan portfolio.
CIDB Malaysia. Malaysian government Construction Industry Development Board (CIDB) completed training and issued certificates to their staff trainers in the installation of IRIS Koto energy efficient I.B.S. building systems. 26 Schools under the direction of Mr. Lawrence Siaw in the most remote places throughout Borneo were completed in 4 months using the
Koto Housing Kenya. Koto Kenya team is dedicated to transform the construction industry. Home owners no longer need to wait up to 3 years anymore as they can enjoy the comfort and benefits of a Koto home in just 30 days. 26 Schools under the direction of Mr. Lawrence Siaw in the most remote places throughout Borneo were completed in 4 months using the Koto energy efficient I.B.S. building systems.
IRIS KOTO Industrialised Building Systems. IRIS KOTO IBS is a high speed, fully integrated building system-with pre-fabricated lightweight panels for all parts of the building, including the foundation, walls, ceiling, roofing, columns, and beams. Yet, the system is fully flexible to accommodate third party components. Made from fire retardant, rigid cellular insulation, and fibre-reinforced mineral composite, IRIS KOTO panels provide great insulation for maintaining indoor temperatures. The IRIS KOTO panels can also be used to build fire safe pods, a modular room size vault that’s fire proof.