The cost of drug rehab programs doesn’t need to be a barrier to getting help to stop a drug addiction. When you consider how much the addict has already spent on his or her habit and the money friends and/or family members have shelled out to help the addict, the cost of getting drug treatment is a good investment. 
Figuring Out How Much You'll Pay. The cost of a rehab program depends on a number of factors, such as what kind of treatment you choose, where it's located and how long you stay. Inpatient can range from $2,000 - $25,000 for a 30-day program. Outpatient can range from free to $10,000. Detox can range from $300-$800 a day. Keep in mind that the cost of treatment will likely outweigh the cost of an addiction in the long run. A good way to look at the cost of an inpatient rehab program is in terms of the level of care: basic, standard and premium/luxury. Inpatient programs can last anywhere from 30 days to 60 days to 90 days or longer.
Some intensive rehab centers can cost up to $12,000 per month, although most centers are slightly lower in price. Most admissions to rehab centers cost $3,840 in addition to the monthly cost of treatment, room and board. If you’re interested in inpatient care but can’t afford the high price tag, there are several options available to you.
The Cost of Rehab. Rehab can be a costly proposition for many people. Even though the cost to the individual patient and his family has declined in recent years, treatment programs often reach into the thousands of dollars. In 2002, the average cost of a rehab treatment program was around $1,400. Residential treatment rates stood around $3,800, and outpatient methadone treatments cost an average of about $7,400. Some rehab facilities' inpatient treatment programs can cost into the tens of thousands of dollars. Crossroads Centre, a rehab center in Antigua, West Indies, founded by guitarist Eric Clapton, charges an average of $15,000 per month for treatment [source: Addiction Resource Guide ]
* Promises Rehab in Malibu California if a favorite among celebrities. Their inpatient program currently costs about $33,000 for one month. * Passages is also based in Malibu California and offers a non-12 Step approach to addiction recovery. The current cost of treatment there is about $45,000. * Meadows Clinic in Arizona charges approximately $1,000 per day. Cost of Drug and Alcohol Rehab in Europe. The cost of drug and alcohol rehab in Europe varies between countries. In the UK the average cost of rehab is approximately $1,000 per week.
If you are searching for a drug or alcohol treatment center, you likely want to know how much your treatment program will cost. The price that each patient pays to receive drug treatment generally depends on the location of the facility, its amenities and the treatment programs it offers. Low-Cost and Free Drug Treatment Programs. ...you can still get treatment for your drug or alcohol addiction if you have little or no money.-Rehabs.com. You'll be happy to know that you can still get treatment for your drug or alcohol addiction if you have little or no money.
The cost of luxury drug rehab programs is high because of the many additional services that these facilities offer. However, the cost of standard drug and alcohol treatment programs is much less expensive because these programs focus less on luxury and only on providing patients with drug and alcohol treatment. Standard drug treatment facilities cost between $10,000 and $20,000 per month. Low-Cost and Free Drug Treatment Programs. ...you can still get treatment for your drug or alcohol addiction if you have little or no money.-Rehabs.com. You'll be happy to know that you can still get treatment for your drug or alcohol addiction if you have little or no money.
Discussions of cost can obscure the fact that addiction treatment programs help defray the basic cost of addiction. According to an article sponsored by the National Institute on Drug Abuse, alcohol abusers and their families spent $66.8 billion in alcohol-related costs in 1992 alone. 