Gneiss is a banded or foliated metamorphic rock, of similar composition to granite. It is very hard and used where granite would be used, some gneisses are used as facing ston … e on buildings. counter tops. 11 people found this useful. 1  The Periodic Table of Elements Life is sustained by a number of chemical elements. No. Gneiss is a high-grade metamorphic rock. Even if the gneiss  formed from what was originally a fossil-containing rock, the  metamorphism will have destroyed the fossils. …. 10
Gneiss is a high grade metamorphic rock, meaning that it has been subjected to higher temperatures and pressures than schist. It is formed by the metamorphosis of granite, or sedimentary rock. Gneiss displays distinct foliation, representing alternating layers composed of different minerals. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Gneiss /ˈnaɪs/ is a common and widely distributed type of rock formed by high-grade regional metamorphic processes from pre-existing formations that were originally either igneous or sedimentary rocks. It is often foliated (composed of layers of sheet-like planar structures). Gneissic rocks are usually medium-to coarse-foliated; they are largely recrystallized but do not carry large quantities of micas, chlorite or other platy minerals. Gneisses that are metamorphosed igneous rocks or their equivalent are termed granite gneisses, diorite gneisses, etc.
Gneiss (pronounced 'nice') is a globally common type of metamorphic rock that can easily be identified by its alternating layers of minerals known as gneissic banding. It forms as a result of high-grade, regional metamorphism. Lesson Summary. Gneiss is a high-grade, metamorphic rock that forms as a result of regional metamorphism. It forms from quartz, feldspar, mica, and other clay mineral-rich rocks that are exposed to high temperature and high pressure metamorphic conditions.
Gneiss (pronounced nice) is a metamorphic rock consisting mostly of quartz and feldspar and showing distinct layering or banding. The layering of a gneiss may be weak or well-developed and consists of varying concentrations of biotite, garnet, hornblende, mica, and other minerals. 
Confidence votes 18. Gneiss is a banded or foliated metamorphic rock, of similar composition to granite. It is very hard and used where granite would be used, some gneisses are used as facing stone on buildings. counter tops. No. Gneiss is a high-grade metamorphic rock. Even if the gneiss  formed from what was originally a fossil-containing rock, the  metamorphism will have destroyed the fossils.
Gneiss and schist are the most common metamorphic rock. Gneiss is a  foliated rock usually composed of quartzand feldspar. Schist is  also foliated, but its minera compositi … on varies. No. Gneiss is a high-grade metamorphic rock. Even if the gneiss  formed from what was originally a fossil-containing rock, the  metamorphism will have destroyed the fossils.
Gneiss Facts. Gneiss (pronounced nice) is a type of metamorphic rock that forms when a sedimentary or igneous rock is exposed to extreme temperatures and pressure. When this happens, virtually no traces of the original rock remain. Gneiss rocks are characterized by their arrangement of minerals into long bands. Gneiss rock is further characterized by its alternating light and dark bands of minerals. Gneiss forms from volcanic rock, shale, or granitic. Quartz is typically abundantly found in gneiss. The bands that form on gneiss rock are due to the various rocks that are a part of its make-up.