The fovea is an important region of the retina, as it contains the highest concentration of photoreceptors in the eye. Nervous tissue in the retina is connected to the brain through the optic nerve, which passes through a hole in the choroid and sclera in the posterior of the eye. Where the optic nerve forms there are no photoreceptors, resulting in a blind spot known as the optic disk.
Glaucoma is one of the most common illnesses affecting the optic nerve. Glaucoma is caused by high intraocular pressure, or high pressure in the fluid that is inside the eye (vitreous fluid). This high pressure compresses the optic nerve and causes cells to die.
1 Cranial nerves connect your sense organs (eyes, ears, nose, mouth) to your brain. 2  Central nerves connect areas within the brain and spinal cord. 3  Peripheral nerves connect the spinal cord with your limbs. 4  Autonomic nerves connect the brain and spinal cord with your organs (heart, stomach, intestines, blood vessels, etc.).
Optic nerve: The optic nerve connects the eye to the brain. The optic nerve carries the impulses formed by the retina, the nerve layer that lines the back of the eye and senses light and creates impulses. These impulses are dispatched through the optic nerve to the brain, which interprets them as images.
Cranial Nerve 2. Cranial nerve 2 is also called the optic nerve. This nerve exits the eye through an area in the back of the eye called the optic disk and goes to the brain stem. Once it is there, some of the nerve fibers that are from the right eye will go to the left side of the brain. Likewise, some of the fibers that are from the left eye will go to the righ
The lens is the transparent structure inside the eye that focuses light rays onto the retina. The retina is, as mentioned, the nerve layer that lines the back of the eye, senses light and creates impulses that go through the optic nerve to the brain.
The optic nerve is located in the back of the eye. It is also called the second cranial nerve or cranial nerve II. It is the second of several pairs of cranial nerves. The job of the optic nerve is to transfer visual information from the retina to the vision centers of the brain via electrical impulses. The optic nerve is made of ganglionic cells or nerve cells.