Report Abuse. the sun is in the outer edge of one of the arms of the milky way galaxy. as you know, the milky way is a spiral galaxy with several arms extending from the center. the sun is a star on the outer edge of one of these arms. jepramirez · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 1. Thumbs down. 1. Comment. Add a comment. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sun says: The Sun orbits the center of the Milky Way galaxy at a distance of approximately 26,000 light-years from the galactic center, completing one revolution in about 225–250 million years.
Instead, we’re located in a minor arm of the galaxy. Our local spiral arm is sometimes Orion Arm, or sometimes the Orion Spur. It’s between the Sagittarius and Perseus Arms of the Milky Way. The image below shows it. Our sun is located the Orion Arm, or Orion Spur, of the Milky Way galaxy. It’s a minor spiral arm, located between two other arms. Image updated in 2010 by R. Hurt on Wikimedia Commons. Our local Orion Arm of the Milky Way is some 3,500 light years across. It’s approximately 10,000 light years in length. Our sun, the Earth, and all the other planets in our solar system reside within this Orion Arm. We’re located close to the inner rim of this spiral arm, about halfway along its length.
The Sun (in Greek: Helios, in Latin: Sol) is the star at the center of the Solar System and is by far the most important source of energy for life on Earth. It is a nearly perfect spherical ball of hot plasma, with internal convective motion that generates a magnetic field via a dynamo process. The solar constant is the amount of power that the Sun deposits per unit area that is directly exposed to sunlight. The solar constant is equal to approximately 7003136800000000000♠1,368 W/m2 (watts per square meter) at a distance of one astronomical unit (AU) from the Sun (that is, on or near Earth).
The azimuth angle indicates the direction of the sun in the horizontal plain from a given location. North is defined to have an azimuth of 0° and south has an azimuth of 180°. The various trajectories of the sun’s in the sky are bounded by those of the 21st day (solstice) of each month from December 21 until June 21. We plot the time, on the hour, for all hours during which the sun is in the chart.
The Sun is a G-type main-sequence star (G2V) based on spectral class and it is informally referred to as a yellow dwarf. It formed approximately 4.567 billion years ago from the gravitational collapse of matter within a region of a large molecular cloud. The solar constant is the amount of power that the Sun deposits per unit area that is directly exposed to sunlight. The solar constant is equal to approximately 7003136800000000000♠1,368 W/m2 (watts per square meter) at a distance of one astronomical unit (AU) from the Sun (that is, on or near Earth).
With this activity you can verify that the Sun appears in a different location at a specific time every day of the year with one exception. On March 21, the Vernal (spring) Equinox, and September 21, the Autumnal (fall) Equinox, you will find the Sun in exactly the same position in the sky. What You'll Need. Once the glue is dried and the stick can stand by itself, place the cardboard square on a flat surface where it will be exposed to the Sun. Take note of the time of day. Mark the point on the board where the tip of shadow is located and write the date.
Some astronomers think we might actually just have two arms, Perseus and Sagittarius. The Sun is located in the inner rim of the Orion Arm, which is thought to be an offshoot of the Sagittarius Arm. The Sun is located about 26,000 light-years away from the center of the galaxy. Before telescopes, the Milky Way just looked like a bright area in the sky, but when Galileo first turned his telescope on the region in 1610, he realized that it was actually made up of faint stars. The astronomer Harlow Shapley accurately determined where the Sun is in the MIlky Way in the early 20th century by noticing that globular clusters were uniformly located above and below the Milky Way, but they were concentrated in the sky towards the constellation Sagittarius.
Back to top Content | Data + Map | Chart Polar | Chart Cartesian | Table | Annual sun path |. Back to top Content | Data + Map | Chart Polar | Chart Cartesian | Table | Annual sun path |. Calculation of sun’s position in the sky for each location on the earth at any time of day. Azimuth, sunrise sunset noon, daylight and graphs of the solar path. North is defined to have an azimuth of 0° and south has an azimuth of 180°. The various trajectories of the sun’s in the sky are bounded by those of the 21st day (solstice) of each month from December 21 until June 21. We plot the time, on the hour, for all hours during which the sun is in the chart.
Solar Facts. The Sun is a low mass star on the outer reaches of the Milky Way galaxy. The Sun is some 30,000 light years from the center of the Milky Way and lies on one of the spiral arms.