a direct-acting cholinergic neurotransmitter agent widely distributed in body tissues, with a primary function of mediating the synaptic activity of the nervous system and skeletal muscles. Its half-life and duration of activity are short because it is rapidly destroyed by acetylcholinesterase. ACh binds to acetylcholine receptors on skeletal muscle fibres. Sodium enters the muscle fibre membrane, which leads to a depolarization of the membrane and muscle contraction.
Noun. 1. acetylcholine-a neurotransmitter that is a derivative of choline; released at the ends of nerve fibers in the somatic and parasympathetic nervous systems. neurotransmitter-a neurochemical that transmits nerve impulses across a synapse.
Acetylcholine has functions both in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) and in the central nervous system (CNS) as a neuromodulator. In the peripheral nervous system, acetylcholine activates muscles, and is a major neurotransmitter in the autonomic nervous system. Inside the brain acetylcholine functions as a neuromodulator —a chemical that alters the way other brain structures process information rather than a chemical used to transmit information from point to point. The brain contains a number of cholinergic areas, each with distinct functions.
Acetylcholine is also used as a neurotransmitter in the autonomic nervous system, both as an internal transmitter for the sympathetic nervous system and as the final product released by the parasympathetic nervous system. Inside the brain acetylcholine functions as a neuromodulator —a chemical that alters the way other brain structures process information rather than a chemical used to transmit information from point to point. The brain contains a number of cholinergic areas, each with distinct functions.
Medical Definition of ACETYLCHOLINE. : a neurotransmitter C7H17NO3 released at autonomic synapses and neuromuscular junctions, active in the transmission of nerve impulses, and formed enzymatically in the tissues from choline. — ace·tyl·cho·lin·ic \-kō-ˈlin-ik\ adjective. Definition of ACETYLCHOLINE. : a neurotransmitter [C7H16NO2]+ released at autonomic synapses and neuromuscular junctions and formed enzymatically in the tissues from choline. See acetylcholine defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
Medical Definition of ACETYLCHOLINESTERASE. : an enzyme that occurs especially in some nerve endings and in the blood and promotes the hydrolysis of acetylcholine. Nglish: Translation of acetylcholinesterase for Spanish speakers. 
Acetylcholine is the neurotransmitter used at the neuromuscular junction —in other words, it is the chemical that motor neurons of the nervous system release in order to activate muscles. This property means that drugs that affect cholinergic systems can have very dangerous effects ranging from paralysis to convulsions. Inside the brain acetylcholine functions as a neuromodulator —a chemical that alters the way other brain structures process information rather than a chemical used to transmit information from point to point. The brain contains a number of cholinergic areas, each with distinct functions.
acetylcholine (ACh). A neurotransmitter substance with special excitatory properties of all preganglionic autonomic neurons, all parasympathetic postganglionic neurons and a few postganglionic sympathetic neurons. ACh binds to acetylcholine receptors on skeletal muscle fibres. Sodium enters the muscle fibre membrane, which leads to a depolarization of the membrane and muscle contraction.