Mayra is a very prominent first name for females (#635 out of 4276, Top 15%) but an unusual surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Mayra ▼ is alike in pronunciation to Maery, Mahra, Marah, Mari ▼ , Marra, Meara, Meera, Meira, Mera, Mira ▲ , Mirra, Mora, Moyra and Myrah. Other suggested similar baby names are Madra, Maya ▲ , Mayda, Maysa and Zayra. These names tend to be less commonly used than Mayra
Meaning of Mayra. English name. In English, the name Mayra means-abbreviation of mary and miriam. Other origins for the name Mayra include-English, Irish.The name Mayra is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-abbreviation of mary and miriam. Origin-England. Alternate Origins-Irish.
Irish Meaning: The name Mayra is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Mayra is: a Gaelic form of Mary: bitter. American Meaning: The name Mayra is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Mayra is: a Gaelic form of Mary: bitter. SoulUrge Number: 2. Expression Number: 22. People with this name have a deep inner desire for love and companionship, and want to work with others to achieve peace and harmony.
The name Mayra is of Spanish origin, and it means Combination of Maya/Myra/Mara . It's a name commonly given to girls. 
Name Mayra generally means A Plant name, is of English, Indian origin, Name Mayra is a Feminine (or Girl) name. This name is shared across persons, who are either Christian or Hindu by religion. Name Mayra belongs to rashi Sinh (Leo) with dominant planet Sun (Surya) and Nakshatra (stars) Makha. Find qualities of Leo (Sinh) or Find Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Mayra or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday or Find compatibility of Sinh (Leo) with other zodiac signs.
Mayra /may-ra/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced MAY-rah, MYE-rah. It is of Irish and Latin origin, and the meaning of Mayra is star of the sea. Mayra ▼ is alike in pronunciation to Maery, Mahra, Marah, Mari ▼ , Marra, Meara, Meera, Meira, Mera, Mira ▲ , Mirra, Mora, Moyra and Myrah. Other suggested similar baby names are Madra, Maya ▲ , Mayda, Maysa and Zayra. These names tend to be less commonly used than Mayr
Personal experiences with the name Mayra: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Mayra: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Mayra: | Edit. Share what you know! Famous real-life people named Mayra: | Edit. Mayra Alejandra Rodriguez, telenovela actress. Her success in the 1980s resulted in a lot of Hispanic girls being named Mayra Alejandra and Maira Alejandra
English meaning of the name Myra for a girl: poetic invention. Sanskrit meaning of the name Myra for a girl: beloved, intoxicatingly beautiful. Greek meaning of the name Myra for a girl: fragrant from myrrh, an aromatic shrub. Latin meaning of the name Myra for a girl: variation of Miranda, admirable, extraordinary. Arabic meaning of the name Myra for a girl: Aristocratic Lady. Myra is associated with the same myrrh that, according to Matthew, was brought as a gift to the infant Jesus by the Three Kings, along with gold and frankincense