1 Tax liens. 2  Paid tax liens will typically stay on your credit report for seven years from the date released (paid), while unpaid tax liens can remain on your credit report for 15 years. 3  Bankruptcies. 4  In general, the public record of a bankruptcy can stay on your credit report for 10 years. Not all of your credit information will stay on your credit report forever, which can be good news if you are worried about how long negative information, such as late payments, bankruptcies and judgments, will impact your credit history and credit score. How long information remains on your credit report varies.
Certain state laws may also impact how long information stays on your credit report. For current New York residents, for example, paid collections will remain on your credit report for only five years, while unpaid collections will remain for the full seven years. Not all of your credit information will stay on your credit report forever, which can be good news if you are worried about how long negative information, such as late payments, bankruptcies and judgments, will impact your credit history and credit score. How long information remains on your credit report varies.
Lenders use the information in your credit report to assess your risk as a borrower, and negative information can make you look risky. Equifax Experts explain how long negative information, such as bankruptcies and collections, generally stay on your credit report. Not all of your credit information will stay on your credit report forever, which can be good news if you are worried about how long negative information, such as late payments, bankruptcies and judgments, will impact your credit history and credit score. How long information remains on your credit report varies.
How long negative information appears on your credit report depends on the type of information: 1  Late paid accounts. 2  In general, negative information will stay on your credit report for seven years from the date of last activity. Not all of your credit information will stay on your credit report forever, which can be good news if you are worried about how long negative information, such as late payments, bankruptcies and judgments, will impact your credit history and credit score. How long information remains on your credit report varies.
Collection accounts can remain on your credit report for up to 7 years. Even if you pay it in full it’s still considered a negative account and will remain on your file as a “paid collection” for 7 years. Even a paid collection account will lower your credit scores, and it will remain on your credit file for the same 7 year period. If your company has an internal collections department, you may have greater success in getting the collections removed from your account.
The debt collector then reports the debt as a new account that is added to your credit history. The original account and the collection account can stay on your credit record for up to seven years, at which time both are removed. The Nolo website says you may be able to get collections removed early as part of a payment agreement with the debt collector, or the original creditor if the debt hasn’t been sold. Alternatively, creditors can sell accounts to a debt buyer. Whichever approaches a creditor takes, collections normally stay on a credit record for seven years after the account originally became delinquent.
The injury to your credit score will lessen over time, but the item will stay on your credit report for seven years. Federal law requires negative items to drop off credit reports within that time. (The only exception is bankruptcy, which can stay on a report for 10 years.). 1  Share this story. 2  LinkedIn. 3  Delicious. 4  Reddit. Damage to credit. Any collections item, medical or not, can lower a person's FICO credit score by as much as 100 points, says Anthony Sprauve, spokesman for myFICO.com. Typically, if you have a higher credit score, a negative item will hurt more than if you had a lower credit score.
An unpaid collection account will remain on your credit report for  7 years from the date the account was reported by the collection  agency. Keep in mind that any new activ … ity regarding the account  (for example, if you decide to pay it off) will reset the time  limit. In other words, if you have an unpaid collection account  from Jan. 2000 and you decide to pay it in Apr. 2004, it will  remain on your credit report for 7 years from the date you paid  (Apr. 2004) instead of the original date it was reported (Jan.  2000).
Last Updated: June 30, 2015. Collections of any sort on your credit report don't look good, and can do long-term damage, but medical collections can be particularly harmful. The possibility of removing them isn't as straight-forward as the debt validation process, for example, that works so well for credit card collections. Once it's on your report as in collection status, medical debt is probably there to stay for a good seven years, even if you manage to pay it off before then. 
Once you’ve paid off your debt, there’s a set timeframe for how long a collection will remain on your credit report. In general, a collection will remain on your credit report for up to seven years and 180 days from the start of the delinquency that led to the collection. 