A student is usually recruited by an exchange organization that is based in his or her home country. A partner exchange program in the destination country sponsors the student, with their local coordinators identifying a host family and a school willing to host the student. There is no charge. The only expenses for your family will be the costs of including another person in your regular activities, including three meals a day. You will be eligible for a $50 per month federal tax deduction for hosting a international exchange student.
Student exchanges also increased further after the end of the Cold War. An exchange student typically stays in the host country for a period of 6 to 10 months. International students or those on study abroad programs may stay in the host country for several years. Long-term (10 to 12 month) exchange applications and interviews generally take place 10 months in advance of departure, but sometimes as little as four months. Students generally must be between the ages of 15 and 18.5. Some programs allow students older than 18 years of age in a specialized work-study program.
Students may take part in school activities, including after school sports programs. The school district and the state office in charge of deciding athletic eligibility must approve the exchange student’s participation. Students may not work part-time or full-time jobs. However, they may accept occasional work, like yard work or baby-sitting. Exchange students are not allowed to live with relatives.
Exchange students live with a host family or in a designated place such as a hostel, an apartment, or a student lodging. Costs for the program vary by the country and institution. Participants fund their participation via scholarships, loans, or self-funding. Long-term (10 to 12 month) exchange applications and interviews generally take place 10 months in advance of departure, but sometimes as little as four months. Students generally must be between the ages of 15 and 18.5. Some programs allow students older than 18 years of age in a specialized work-study program.
Program Details and FAQs. Traditional youth exchange programs--often referred to as foreign exchange student programs--bring international students, usually at the secondary school level, to live with a host family and attend secondary school in the host country for either an academic semester or year. There is no charge. The only expenses for your family will be the costs of including another person in your regular activities, including three meals a day. You will be eligible for a $50 per month federal tax deduction for hosting a international exchange student.
Applications are also assessed for qualities that result in a successful exchange. Once a student is accepted, the process of finding suitable host families and schools begins. Student applications are sent to field staff who search for a host family and school to host the student. There is no charge. The only expenses for your family will be the costs of including another person in your regular activities, including three meals a day. You will be eligible for a $50 per month federal tax deduction for hosting a international exchange student.
Hosting an exchange student with EF High School Exchange Year is rewarding in so many ways-here are three of our favorites! 1. Hosting a student brings your family closer together. You spend more time with each other because you’re sharing your life with a new family member. 2. 
1 Not have finished more than 11 years of primary and secondary school, not including kindergarten; and. 2  Not have previously participated in a secondary school student academic year or semester exchange program or attended school in the United States in either F-1 or J-1 status. The school district and the state office in charge of deciding athletic eligibility must approve the exchange student’s participation. Students may not work part-time or full-time jobs. However, they may accept occasional work, like yard work or baby-sitting. Exchange students are not allowed to live with relatives.
Applications for exchange students will be received from October and will close on 30 April. Students depart in the following January for a 12 month exchange. To participate in the RIYE Programme, applicants must: • Be aged between 15 and up to 18 years at the time of January departure. (Age requirements vary by destination country)