Only vertebrates have specific immune responses. Two types of white blood cells called lymphocytes are vital to the specific immune response. Lymphocytes are produced in the bone marrow, and mature into one of several subtypes. The two most common are T cells and B cells. An antigen is a foreign material that triggers a response from T and B cells. 
The white blood cells then produce antibodies to match the shape of the antigens. The antigens on the surface of pathogenic cells are different from those on the surface of your own cells. This enables your immune system to distinguish pathogens from cells that are part of your body. Lymphocyte. A type of white blood cell that make antibodies to fight off infections. Pathogen. A micro-organism that causes disease. Phagocyte. Phagocytes are the white blood cells that protect the body by ingesting harmful foreign particles, bacteria, and dead or dying cells.
Granulocytes, Monocytes and Lymphocytes are 3 major types of white blood cell. White blood cells are the cells that help the body fight infection. There are a number of different types and sub-types of white blood cells which each have different roles to play. The three major types of white blood cells are: 1  Granulocytes. 2  Monocytes. 3  Lymphocytes
There are five different types of white blood cells, also called leukocytes, found in the human bodies. White blood cells all help to defend the body from foreign particles in some way. All white blood cells are produced in red bone marrow, with the special type lymphocytes also being formed in lymphatic tissue. Together all these types of white blood cells coordinate a system that defends the body from infection, damage and even cancer. Neutrophils are the most numerous of the white blood cells. They are often called bacterial slayers because they're usually function is killing foreign bacteria in the body. Neutrophils are the first white blood cell at a cut or when damage is done to the body
Macrophages work with lymphocytes as antigen presenting cells. Lymphocytes are a special type of white blood cell that are capable of cell division in lymphatic organs and tissues, such as the tonsils, lymph nodes and spleen, in response to specific infections in the body. Together all these types of white blood cells coordinate a system that defends the body from infection, damage and even cancer. Neutrophils are the most numerous of the white blood cells. They are often called bacterial slayers because they're usually function is killing foreign bacteria in the body. Neutrophils are the first white blood cell at a cut or when damage is done to
T-Cells. T-cells are a type of white blood cell that works with macrophages. Unlike macrophages that can attack any invading cell or virus, each T-cell can fight only one type of virus. You might think this means macrophages are stronger than T-cells, but they aren’t. 
Types of white blood cell. There are several types of white blood cell [white blood cells: cells which fight disease by making antibodies or engulfing germs ] , each with a different function. But there are two main groups. These are phagocytes or macrophages, and lymphocytes. 
The cells of the immune system are able to distinguish between different kinds of pathogens. The immune system cells then react to each kind of pathogen with a defense target specifically at that pathogen. White blood cells that target specific pathogens are called lymphocytes. 
White blood cells (WBCs), also called leukocytes or leucocytes, are the cells of the immune system that are involved in protecting the body against both infectious disease and foreign invaders. All leukocytes are produced and derived from a multipotent cell in the bone marrow known as a hematopoietic stem cell. 