Origin of the word cancer. The origin of the word cancer is credited to the Greek physician Hippocrates (460-370 BC), who is considered the “Father of Medicine.” Hippocrates used the terms carcinos and carcinoma to describe non-ulcer forming and ulcer-forming tumors. Although the crab analogy of Hippocrates and Celsus is still used to describe malignant tumors, Galen’s term is now used as a part of the name for cancer specialists – oncologists.
Claudius Galenus, or Galen, was born in Pergamum, an old Greek city on the Aegean coast of Asia Minor, or present day Turkey, in the year 130 A.D. Pergamum was an ancient center of learning and medicine, having an Asclepion and a famous library that second only to the one in Alexandria. When Galen was 19, his father died, which sent him on the journeyman phase of his medical education. He first studied in Smyrna, or present day Izmir, Turkey, and then traveled to Alexandria, where he finished his studies.
The History of Cancer The study of cancer, called oncology, is the work of countless doctors and scientists around the world whose discoveries in anatomy, physiology, chemistry, epidemiology, and other related fields made oncology what it is today. Galen viewed cancer much as Hippocrates had, and considered the patient incurable after a diagnosis of cancer had been made. His views set the pattern for cancer management for centuries. Even though medicine progressed and flourished in some ancient civilizations, there was little progress in cancer treatment.
When Galen was just a boy, his father had a dream in which Asclepius appeared to him and told him to let his son study medicine. And so, the young Galen went to the local Asclepion to be trained by its elder physician-priests. Galen remained a lifelong devotee of Asclepius. When Galen was 19, his father died, which sent him on the journeyman phase of his medical education. He first studied in Smyrna, or present day Izmir, Turkey, and then traveled to Alexandria, where he finished his studies.
But if you’re going to talk about the history of epidemiology, you have to start with John Snow. John Snow was one of the first Epidemiologists, and he showed that cholera was water-borne, and debunked the (then-popular) Miasma theory. This Friday, organizations around the world will be marking his 200th birthday. While some may argue that there were other pioneers of Epidemiology, including John Gaunt, Hippocrates and others, John Snow, if not the first Epidemiologist, is definitely one of the fathers of the field. Note: A version of this post appeared originally on my blog at MrEpidemiology.com.
John Snow (15 March 1813 – 16 June 1858) was an English physician and a leader in the adoption of anaesthesia and medical hygiene. He is considered one of the fathers of modern epidemiology, in part because of his work in tracing the source of a cholera outbreak in Soho, London, in 1854. Snow was born 15 March 1813 in York, England. He was the first of nine children born to William and Frances Snow in their North Street home. His neighbourhood was one of the poorest in the city and was always in danger of flooding because of its proximity to the River Ouse
Galen was the greatest physician of ancient Rome. Whereas Hippocrates laid the foundation of Greek Medicine, Galen further developed its theory and practice, and carried Greco-Roman medicine to its zenith. When Galen was 19, his father died, which sent him on the journeyman phase of his medical education. He first studied in Smyrna, or present day Izmir, Turkey, and then traveled to Alexandria, where he finished his studies.
Soranus of Ephesus, a Greek gynecologist of 2nd century AD was Hippocrates's first biographer and is the source of most information on Hippocrates's person. Later biographers of Hippocrates were Suidas, John Tzetzes, and Aristotle. Soranus stated that Hippocrates's father was Heraclides, a physician; his mother was Praxitela, daughter of Phenaretis. The two sons of Hippocrates, Thessalus and Draco, and his son-in-law, Polybus, were his students. Soranus said that Hippocrates learned medicine from his father and grandfather, and other subjects from Democritus and orgias. Hippocrates was probably trained at the Healing temple of Kos, and took lessons from Herodicus. Plato, Hippocrates's only contemporary to mention him, describes him as an Asclepiad (Greek).
John Snow © Snow was a British physician who is considered one of the founders of epidemiology for his work identifying the source of a cholera outbreak in 1854. 