Definition: Agave nectar is sometimes called agave syrup or agave sweetener. Agave nectar has a taste and appearance similar to honey, making it a popular substitute for strict vegans and others who avoid honey. There are two kinds of agave nectar: dark agave nectar and light. 
Agave Nectar Is Not A Natural Sweetener. Once upon a time, I picked up a jar of “Organic Raw Blue Agave Nectar” at my grocery store. It was the first time I’d ever seen the stuff in real life, and the label looked promising. After all, words like “organic,” “raw,” and “all natural” should mean something. 
A relatively recent trend in raw food preparation is the use of agave syrup (also called agave nectar) as sweetener is called for in raw recipes. I am often asked about my views on this sweetener. When I first switched to a raw food diet in 1995, agave syrup was unknown and was NOT USED IN RAW FOODS! I first learned about agave syrup back in 1999 or 2000 at a trade show for the health food industry, which I attend regularly to keep up with the latest in the health and nutrition field.
Wholesome! Fair Trade Organic Raw Blue Agave is a natural sweetener harvested from the core of the Blue Agave plant. Fair Trade Organic Blue Agave is a mild delicious syrup that is a ideal for sweetening beverages, oatmeal, pancakes, waffles, yogurt, cereal and more.
Agave syrups are sold in light, amber, dark, and raw varieties. Light agave syrup has a mild, almost neutral flavor, and is therefore sometimes used in delicate-tasting dishes and beverages. Amber agave syrup has a medium-intensity caramel flavor and is therefore used in dishes and drinks with stronger flavors. Because agave nectar dissolves quickly, it can be used as a sweetener for cold beverages such as cocktails, smoothies, and iced tea. Agave nectar (more accurately called agave syrup) is a sweetener commercially produced from several species of agave, including Agave tequilana (blue agave) and Agave salmiana. Agave syrup is sweeter than honey and tends to be less viscou
Agave In The Raw™ is organic blue agave nectar, a delicious liquid sweetener that comes from the blue agave plant, native to Mexico. Agave In The Raw nectar is harvested from the center core of the blue agave plant. It is about 25% sweeter than refined white sugar so a little bit tends to go a long way. Agave In The Raw nectar is made from liquid harvested from the core of the Mexican blue agave, a plant resembling a cactus. The nectar is produced in Mexico and bottled in the USA.
Agave syrup (also called agave nectar) is a sweetener commercially produced in Mexico, from several species of agave, including Agave tequilana (also called Blue Agave or Tequila Agave), and the Salmiana, Green, Grey, Thorny, and Rainbow varieties.Agave syrup is sweeter than honey, though less viscous. 
One of the prime uses of agave before the rise of alternative sweeteners was in making tequila, the popular alcohol used in margaritas and other cocktails. In the process of making tequila, agave is fermented, which some see as a comparatively natural process to what happens to the agave syrup sold as a sweetener. Agave is a desert plant filled with a liquid that can be harvested and used as a sweetener. This product, commonly called agave nectar or syrup, can be used in many different food and drink preparations.
To produce agave syrup from the Agave americana and A. tequilana plants, the leaves are cut off the plant after it has aged seven to fourteen years. The juice is then extracted from the core of the agave, called the pina. piña Because agave nectar dissolves quickly, it can be used as a sweetener for cold beverages such as cocktails, smoothies, and iced tea. Agave nectar (more accurately called agave syrup) is a sweetener commercially produced from several species of agave, including Agave tequilana (blue agave) and Agave salmiana. Agave syrup is sweeter than honey and tends to be less viscous.