Microwave radiation is electromagnetic radiation (waves) in the microwave portion of the electromagnetic spectrum. (An electromagnetic wave is a moving electrostatic and magne … tic field. The fields are at right angles to each other, and they move through space in just this way-as moving fields. However, IR radiation does not have the longest wavelength in the Electromagnetic Spectrum. That would be the Radio Waves. Additionally,: The prefix Infra-suggests standing under, sub-, inferior to (IR: Standing under Red light waves) The prefix Ultra-suggests standing beyond Violet light waves.
The Electromagnetic Spectrum. The electromagnetic spectrum consists of the full range of known electromagnetic waves, including gamma rays, X-rays, ultraviolet light, visible light, infrared light, microwaves, and radio waves. All of these are produced by various forms of oscillating charges or currents. Gamma Rays Gamma rays are the most energetic known form of electromagnetic radiation, with frequencies of 3*10 19 Hz (30 EHz) or higher and wavelengths of 10 -11 m (10 pm) or lower. They are produced from the decay of excited nuclei of radioactive elements.
Microwaves are much longer, with a lower frequency, than light is. The shortest 'microwave' is in the neighborhood of 1 millimeter long (300 GHz). That's ab … out 1,540 times as long as the longest visible wave (red, 650 nm)). However, IR radiation does not have the longest wavelength in the Electromagnetic Spectrum. That would be the Radio Waves. Additionally,: The prefix Infra-suggests standing under, sub-, inferior to (IR: Standing under Red light waves) The prefix Ultra-suggests standing beyond Violet light waves.
The infrared (IR) radiation has a longer wavelength (and a lower frequency) than ultraviolet (UV) radiation. The former is below the visible spectrum, and the latter is above … that visible (sometimes called optical) spectrum. However, IR radiation does not have the longest wavelength in the Electromagnetic Spectrum. That would be the Radio Waves. Additionally,: The prefix Infra-suggests standing under, sub-, inferior to (IR: Standing under Red light waves) The prefix Ultra-suggests standing beyond Violet light waves.
The electromagnetic spectrum includes gamma rays, X-rays, ultraviolet, visible, infrared, microwaves, and radio waves. The only difference between these different types of radiation is their wavelength or frequency. Infrared radiation lies between the visible and microwave portions of the electromagnetic spectrum. Infrared waves have wavelengths longer than visible and shorter than microwaves, and have frequencies which are lower than visible and higher than microwaves.
Microwaves are a type of electromagnetic radiation, as are radio waves, ultraviolet radiation, X-rays and gamma-rays. Microwaves have a range of applications, including communications, radar and, perhaps best known by most people, cooking. 
Microwaves are a form of electromagnetic radiation with wavelengths ranging from one meter to one millimeter; with frequencies between 300 MHz (100 cm) and 300 GHz (0.1 cm). It indicates that microwaves are small, compared to waves used in typical radio broadcasting, in that they have shorter wavelengths. The boundaries between far infrared, terahertz radiation, microwaves, and ultra-high-frequency radio waves are fairly arbitrary and are used variously between different fields of study.
EM radiation with a wavelength between approximately 400 nm and 700 nm is directly detected by the human eye and perceived as visible light. Other wavelengths, especially nearby infrared (longer than 700 nm) and ultraviolet (shorter than 400 nm) are also sometimes referred to as light. Microwaves are a form of electromagnetic radiation with wavelengths ranging from as long as one meter to as short as one millimeter; with frequencies between 300 MHz (0.3 GHz) and 300 GHz.
Report Abuse. They are both electromagnetic radiation. Ultraviolet is at the high frequency end of visible light, but microwave radiation is at a much higher frequency. They are the same except for the frequencies involved and therefore their wavelengths. Google both terms. Best Answer: Well both are outside the visible spectrum of light. They have different wavelengths and frequencies. UV radiation is more intense than the microwave radiation.