Goblet cells are scattered among the absorptive cells in the epithelium of the small intestine and colon. These epithelial cells are specialized for secretion of mucus, which facilitates passage of material through the bowel. The name goblet refers to the cell's shape, narrow at the base and bulging apically. Intestinal Absorptive Cells. Absorptive cells, or enterocytes, are the predominant epithelial cell type lining the lumen of the small intestine and colon. These cells are specialized for absorption of nutrients across the apical plasma membrane and export of these same nutrients across the basal plasma membrane.
Functions of the small intestine. The small intestine is the part of the intestines where 90% of the digestion and absorption of food occurs, the other 10% taking place in the stomach and large intestine. The main function of the small intestine is absorption of nutrients and minerals from food. Digestion involves two distinct parts. The first is mechanical digestion by chewing, grinding, churning and mixing that takes place in the mouth and the stomach.
Structure [edit]. The epithelium is part of the intestinal mucosa layer. In the small intestine this takes the form of villi but these are not present in the colon. In both parts of the mammalian intestine, the mucosa is covered by a single layer of epithelial cells that is renewed every 4–5 days.
The mucosa of the small intestine is lined by a simple columnar epithelium which consists primarily of absorptive cells (enterocytes), with scattered goblet cells and occasional enteroendocrine cells. In crypts, the epithelium also includes Paneth cells and stem cells. The mucosa of the small intestine is characterized by evagination into plicae and villi, which increase the surface area for nutrient absorption, and by short tubular invaginations, the crypts, which provide a protected site for
It is the part of the digestive tract where approx 90% of the digestion and absorption of food occurs, the other 10% taking place in the stomach and large intestine. The main function of the small intestine is absorption of nutrients and minerals. That is, absorption of the nutrients and minerals in the food ingested, usually via the mouth, at an earlier stage in the digestive process. 1 Sodium ions (Na +) move from the lumen of the small intestine into epithelial cells by diffusion and active transport. 2  They are then actively transported into blood capillaries on the other side of the epithelial cells. 3  Chloride (Cl -) can passively follow Na + ions into epithelial cells, or be actively transported.
The small intestine is a tubular structure within the abdominal cavity that carries the food in continuation with the stomach up to the colon from where the large intestine carries it to the rectum and out of the body via the anus. The main function of this organ is to aid in digestion. The main function of the small intestine is absorption of nutrients and minerals from food. Digestion involves two distinct parts. The first is mechanical digestion by chewing, grinding, churning and mixing that takes place in the mouth and the stomach.
The epithelium of the villi is made up of tall columnar absorptive cells called enterocytes, and goblet cells, which secrete mucin, for lubrication of the intestinal contents, and protection of the epithelium. This shows the epithelium of part of a villus at high magnification. This is a diagram which shows the villi of the small intestine, as indicated by the arrows in the diagram above, at higher magnification. The main functions of the small intestine are digestion, absorption of food and production of gastrointestinal hormones. The small intestine is 4-6 metres long in humans. To aid in digestion and absorption: 1  the small intestine secretes enzymes and has mucous producing glands
The intestinal epithelium is the cell tissue that lines the large and small intestine. It serves primarily to take part in the digestive process, but it also takes part in the function of the immune system. The epithelium of the intestine is simple columnar, and is nonciliated. Epithelium is a tissue that is made up of a variety of types of cells. It covers the surface of the body and organs, as well as forming the inner lining of body cavities and hollow organs.
The small intestine or small bowel is the part of the gastrointestinal tract between the stomach and the large intestine, and is where much of the digestion and absorption of food takes place. The small intestine has three distinct regions – the duodenum, jejunum, and ileum. It receives bile and pancreatic juice through the pancreatic duct, controlled by the sphincter of Oddi. The primary function of the small intestine is the absorption of nutrients and minerals from food.