Under the statute of limitations, if you do not file a claim for a refund that you are entitled to, you generally have the later of three years from the date you filed the original return or two years from the date you paid the tax, to file the claim. Ed Note: If your 2012 tax return is still buried under a pile of papers next to your computer, it’s probably time to do a little organizing. To help get you set we asked Anna Sandall of the Tax Institute the best way to get on track.
4. You do not file a return: Keep records indefinitely. 5. You file a claim for credit or refund after you file your return: Keep records for three years from the date you filed your original return or two years from the date you paid the tax, whichever is later. 6. You file a claim for a loss from worthless securities or bad debt deduction: Keep records for seven years. 7
What to keep after filing your taxes and how long. Knowing what information to save and for how long can be confusing. As a general rule of thumb, keep tax returns and related documents for at least three years from the April 15 filing deadline. 1 Six years: Forms W-2, 1099, etc. because the IRS has six years to contact you if you've failed to report income. 2  Seven years: Any information regarding loss from worthless securities or bad debts.
Six Years. Keep your income tax papers for six years if you don’t report income that you should and this unreported amount exceeds 25 percent of the gross income that you did report. If you file a return and claim a loss from worthless securities or take a deduction for a bad debt, you should keep your income tax papers for seven years.
I would advise you to keep records and tax returns for the years that include out-of-the-ordinary transactions (sales or donations of property), and income from activities such as stock option exercises, trust income, etc., for six years after the filing date of the return. (MoneyWatch) Most people hold on to their statements for financial, credit and utility accounts a few years, and when the pile gets too big, it's time for the shredder. 1  12 things to keep in a safe at home, not at a bank. 2  Keeping a safe deposit box safe. 3  How long to keep bank records.
Still, you'd be surprised at how much you can safely discard. Here is what you should keep and how long you should keep it. Three Years. Keep your federal and state income tax returns and related receipts and statements for at least three years. If you may have under-reported income by 25 percent or more, then you'll need to keep tax returns and all related information for six years.
As a result, you will need to keep your 2008 tax return and related papers until April 2012. It's generally safe to shred and discard it after that (unless a situation described below applies to you). See IRS Publication 552, Recordkeeping for Individuals, for more information. Six Years. If you may have under-reported income by 25 percent or more, then you'll need to keep tax returns and all related information for six years.
The IRS recommends keeping records for “3 years from the date you filed your original return or 2 years from the date you paid the tax, whichever is later.” You should also keep records for three years if you owe additional tax and the situations described in sections 3 and 4 below don’t apply. If you file a return and claim a loss from worthless securities or take a deduction for a bad debt, you should keep your income tax papers for seven years.
In some cases, you may need to hang onto your records longer than three years. For instance, you should plan on keeping tax forms for retirement accounts such as IRAs until seven years after the account is completely wiped out. If you file a claim for a loss of worthless securities or bad debt deduction, you must keep records for seven years. Ed Note: If your 2012 tax return is still buried under a pile of papers next to your computer, it’s probably time to do a little organizing. To help get you set we asked Anna Sandall of the Tax Institute the best way to get on track.
In most cases, you should plan on keeping tax returns along with any supporting documents (e.g., W-2s, mileage logs if you itemize, etc.) for a period of at least three years following the date you filed or the due date of your tax return, whichever is later. Ed Note: If your 2012 tax return is still buried under a pile of papers next to your computer, it’s probably time to do a little organizing. To help get you set we asked Anna Sandall of the Tax Institute the best way to get on track.