How long does it take for cardboard box to decompose in a landfill? It depends on the mass of the cardboard I did an experiment and found out that in 2 weeks cardboard's mass decreased 0.04g so if a piece of cardboard has the mass of 0.40g i … t'll take 20 weeks. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. It can take up to two months for an apple core to decompose in a landfill. Banana peels will take a few days to decompose. While glass takes a very long time to decompose, a paper bag can take up to five month
Well, that little roll takes two months to decompose in a landfill. So think about it, how many rolls of toilet paper do you use in two months? Now, imagine all the people using them in a town, state, or country. It doesn’t take long to realize how quickly that little toilet paper roll can become a large mountain. 
It can take up to two months for an apple core to decompose in a landfill. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. It can take up to two months for an apple core to decompose in a landfill. Banana peels will take a few days to decompose. While glass takes a very long time to decompose, a paper bag can take up to five months
In a landfill, newspaper only takes about 2-4 weeks to decompose (source). But, it’s also the largest element in a landfill based on volume. Newspaper recycles easily, and we’d save so much space! Food Waste. Every three months, Americans through away enough aluminum cans to rebuild our entire commercial air fleet (source). Aluminum cans that buried in a landfill take around 80-200 years to decompose. But when they’re recycled, it takes as much energy to make 20 cans as it does to make one brand new one (source). Cigarette Butts. Every cigarette butt that’s thrown out the window takes one to five years to decompose. And on ocean cleanups, they’re the #1 source of litter on our beaches (source)
A message circulating on various social networking platforms like Facebook and Twitter says that it takes years of time for the commonly used consumer wastes to decompose and that it effects the global green house effect badly. How Long does it take to Decompose. Paper Towel - 2-4 weeks. Banana Peel - 3-4 weeks. Fact. Analysis: Decomposition or Biodegradation is the chemical dissolution of materials through bacteria and other biological means. It takes significant period of time for a material to decompose completely, depending upon the type of material and the method of degradation. A paper towel may decompose in 2-4 weeks, and a plastic bag takes several thousand years to degrade and decompose completely. You can find more about the decomposition process in reference section. The Wikipedia page lists the typical amount of time it takes for the decomposition of various material
Considering we know that glass bottles take 1-2 million years and plastic bags take 20-1,000 years to decompose, you’d think we’d be more responsible. After shedding light on our ‘trashy’ habits, we thought it’d be appropriate to take a look at some other items to see how long they’ll exist on the planet without us. 
How long does it take for an apple core to decompose in a landfill? It can take up to two months for an apple core to decompose in a  landfill. Banana peels will take a few days to decompose. While  glass takes a very long time to decompose, … a paper bag can take up  to five months. Joshua Polsky.