Ingeborg /in-ge-borg/ [3 sylls.] as a name for girls is of Scandinavian and Old Norse origin, and the meaning of Ingeborg is guarded by Ing. Ingeborg is a version of Inga (Scandinavian, Old Norse). Kreatif forms: Ilgeborg, Ingeborgge, Iogeborg. Presented below is the birth name popularity of Ingeborg for girls. Ingeborg was first listed in 1900-1909 and reached its top position of #859 in the U.S. then, but is not ranked currently. (2014 Birth Statistics).
Ingeborg is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 8 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced In-ge-borg. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Ingeborg Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Ingeborg has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Ingeborg to other names.
Ingeborg is largely used in German and Scandinavian. It is derived from Old Norse origins. The name Ingeborg means Ing's fort. A two-element name, it is derived from the words 'borg' which means protection, fortress, castle. Ingeburg (Germanic) and Ingiborgh (Old Norse) are original forms of the name. The first element Ing refers to a Germanic god of fertility, who was also known as Ingui or Yngvi. The first name is popular in Germany. In addition, Ingeborg is a Scandinavian variant transcription of the name Ingrid (English, German, and Scandinavian). Ingaberg, Ingaborg, Ingebjoerg (Ingebjørg), Scandinavian, Ingegerg, Ingibjorg, Ingunn, Ingunna, injerd And inngeborg are variant transcriptions Of. Ingeborg ingeborg is unusual as a baby girl. name
What does Ingeborg mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Ingeborg is of German origin. The meaning of Ingeborg is mythical fertility god's fortress. It is also of Scandinavian origin, where its meaning is mythical fertility god's fortress . Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Ingeborg Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Ingeborg has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Ingeborg to other names.
1 Ingeborg of Denmark, Queen of France, wife of Philip II of France and daughter of Valdemar I of Denmark. 2  Ingeborg of Denmark, Duchess of Mecklenburg, wife of Henry III, Duke of Mecklenburg, daughter of Valdemar IV of Denmark. 1 Ingeborg Eriksdotter of Sweden, daughter of Eric X of Sweden, wife of Birger jarl and mother of Valdemar I of Sweden.
Meaning of Ingeborg. Danish name. In Danish, the name Ingeborg means-ings protection.The name Ingeborg originated as an Danish name. The name Ingeborg is most often used as a girl name or female name. Danish Name Meaning-ings protection. Origin-Denmark
Just for fun, see the name Ingeborg in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Ingeborg in Nautical Flags page. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Ingeborg Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Ingeborg has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Ingeborg to other names.
Ingeborg is a very popular first name for females (#1709 out of 4276, Top 40%) but a rare surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Ingeborg for girls. Ingeborg was first listed in 1900-1909 and reached its top position of #859 in the U.S. then, but is not ranked currently. (2014 Birth Statistics).
Short form of Scandinavian and German names beginning with the element ing, which refers to the Germanic god ING. In Sweden and Norway this is primarily a masculine name, elsewhere it is usually feminine. 
From the Old Norse name Ingibjoerg, ingibjörg which was derived from the name of The germanic GOD ing combined with bjoerg björg, meaning, help. save rescue 