The girl's name Mila is a variant of Milagros (Spanish) and Milena (Czechoslovakian, Slavic), and the meaning of Mila is miracles; favored. Mila is a pet form of various names in eastern European languages, including the Czech Miloslava and Dobromila, the Polish Kamill and Emilia and the Russian Ludmilla. It is also used in Spanish for Emelia. Mila, is a female name of Slavic Origin. It is a diminutive of Slavic names beginning or ending with Mila which derived from the element Milmeaning gracious, dear. Name Mila generally means Gracious or Dear, is of Russian, Bulgarian, Polish origin, Name Mila is a Feminine (or Girl) name. . Mila is a pet from of various names in eastern European languages.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Mila and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Mila and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The different meanings of the name Mila are: The meaning of the name “Mila” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }.
Czechoslovakian Meaning: The name Mila is a Czechoslovakian baby name. In Czechoslovakian the meaning of the name Mila is: Industrious. Russian Meaning: The name Mila is a Russian baby name. In Russian the meaning of the name Mila is: People's love. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 8. People with this name have a deep inner desire to use their abilities in leadership, and to have personal independenc
What does Mila mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Mila is of Russian origin. The meaning of Mila is dear one. It is also of Slavic origin, where its meaning is nickname for names beginning with Mila-. 
Mila /mi-la/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls. Mila's root is Spanish, and the name Mila means miracles; favored. Mila is a version of Milagros (Spanish). Mila is also a derivative of Milena (Czechoslovakian, Slavic): popular in the Czech Republic. Kreatif forms: Maila, Maula, Misla. 
Mila is actually a pet form of other Slavic names including Milena, Milica and Milan. Mila is sometimes connected with the Spanish female name Milagros which means ‘miracles’ or it could also be considered a pet form of Camilla (meaning ‘an attendant in religious rituals’ from Old Latin). 
Mila's language of origin is Latin and Slavonic, and it is predominantly used in African, Czech, English, Polish, Russian, Slavic, Spanish, and Swahili. Slavonic origin, Czech and Slavic use: It is derived literally from the word mila which is of the meaning 'pleasant, dear'. It represents the transferred use of the vocabulary word as a given name. In addition, Mila is a contracted form (African, Czech, English, Polish, Russian, Slavic, Spanish, and Swahili) of Emilia. 
Meanings and history of the name Mila: | Edit. A short form of names like Milena and Miloslava. It coincides with the Macedonian, Serbian, Croatian and Bulgarian word mila meaning dear, pleasant. Also a South-Slavic form of the popular male name Milan.
Comments and insights on the name Mila: | Edit. Mila (мила), is a female name of Slavic Origin. It is a diminutive of Slavic names beginning or ending with Mila which derived from the element мил Mil meaning gracious, dear. Mila and Liam are anagrams of each other; they contain the same letters. A short form of names like Milena and Miloslava. It coincides with the Macedonian, Serbian, Croatian and Bulgarian word mila meaning dear, pleasant. Also a South-Slavic form of the popular male name Milan.