Energy can not be created and it is degraded when it is converted from one form to another (Chancellor and Goss 1976, Hendrickson 1996, Timmer 1975). The food system can now be viewed as a system that converts non-renewable fossil fuel energy into food (Pimentel and Giampletro 1994).
A Solar Power Bank. All the energy in oil, gas, and coal originally came from the sun, captured through photosynthesis. In the same way that we burn wood to release energy that trees capture from the sun, we burn fossil fuels to release the energy that ancient plants captured from the sun.
There are three major forms of fossil fuels: coal, oil and natural gas. All three were formed many hundreds of millions of years ago before the time of the dinosaurs – hence the name fossil fuels.
Theenergy in fossil fuels or other sources of energy is not always in the form we need. Thepurpose of energy conversion is to change energy resources into more usable forms.Fuel is matter-containing energy stored in chemical form. Food, wood, and coal are allexamples of fuels.
• Fossil fuels are a nonrenewable energy source since they take millions of years to form. • Fossil fuels ultimately get their energy from the sun. The plants that turned into fossils stored energy from the sun by photosynthesis. • 85.6% of all energy consumed in the U.S. comes from fossil fuels.
The availability of decades of cheap fossil fuel energy has allowed the food system to become dependent on finite resources that are rapidly being depleted. Due to the constraints of the first and second laws of thermodynamics this system can not be maintained in its current form.
Fuel is something that can be burned to produce energy in the form of heat or power. Fuels include coal, oil, natural gas, and wood. Humans have been burning wood for warmth, and to light homes and cook food, since civilization began.
Fossil fuels (coal, oil, gas) result from a transformation of plant and animal material over millions of years. The solar energy originally stored in the plant or animal is eventually converted into energy stored in carbon and hydrogen bonds of the fossil fuel.