Notes. pleura. serous membrane lining the pleural cavity. there are two types of pleura: visceral pleura covers the lungs, parietal pleura lines the inner surfaces of the walls of pleural cavity; parietal pleura is sensitive to pain but visceral pleura is not sensitive to pain. pleura, cervical parietal.
In human anatomy, the pleural cavity is the thin fluid-filled space between the two pulmonary pleurae (visceral and parietal) of each lung. A pleura is a serous membrane which folds back onto itself to form a two-layered membranous pleural sac. 
Pleura of the Lungs. The pleura includes two thin layers of tissue that protect and cushion the lungs. The inner layer (visceral pleura) wraps around the lungs and is stuck so tightly to the lungs that it cannot be peeled off. The outer layer (parietal pleura) lines the inside of the chest wall. The very thin space between the layers is called the pleural cavity. A liquid, called pleural fluid, lubricates the pleural cavity so that the two layers of pleural tissue can slide against each other. By Healthwise Staff.
The inner side of the lungs is lined by two layers of membrane. The outer layer of the lungs is the Parietal pleura which adhere to the chest wall. Visceral pleura, which is the inner one of the two layers, varies from Parietal pleura in a few respects. It refers to a swelling of the pleural layers. The visceral pleura, which is the inmost of the two layers, becomes inflamed due to cold weather and certain infections. This can give rise to an acute burning pain which can be experienced while breathing deeply.
there are two types of pleura: visceral pleura covers the lungs, parietal pleura lines the inner surfaces of the walls of pleural cavity; parietal pleura is sensitive to pain but visceral pleura is not sensitive to pain. pleura, cervical parietal. 
The lungs are surrounded by two membranes, the pleura. The outer pleura is attached to the chest wall and is known as the parietal pleura; the inner one is attached to the lung and other visceral tissues and is known as the visceral pleura. In between the two is a thin space known as the pleural cavity or pleural space. It is filled with pleural fluid, a serous fluid produced by the pleura. The pleural fluid lubricates the pleural surfaces and allows the layers of pleura to slide against each other easily during respiration. It also provides the surface tension that keeps the lung surface in contact with the chest wall.
The visceral pleura adheres to the surface of the lung, while the parietal pleura lines the thoracic cavity. The pleura produces lubricating serous fluid that allows its … two layers to slide against one another. The difference between these two pleura is that the parietal pleura is the outtermost covering of the lung which is adhered to the inner thoracic wall, while the visceral pleura is the lining which is directly adhered to the lung itself.
In summary, each pleural cavity is defined by a space surrounding each lung and lined by a pleural membrane. Each pleural cavity is lined by a pleural membrane that is composed of two layers. The visceral pleura surrounds the outside of the lung. The parietal pleura lines the inside of the chest wall and extends over the diaphragm. Each lung is contained within a pleural cavity, the space between the outside of the lung and inside of the chest wall. Pleural membranes cover the outside of the lungs and line the
The pulmonary pleurae are the two pleurae of the invaginated sac surrounding each lung and attaching to the thoracic cavity. The visceral pleura is the delicate serous membrane that covers the surface of each lung and dips into the fissures between the lobes. The parietal pleura is the outer membrane which is attached to the inner surface of the thoracic cavity. It also separates the pleural cavity from the mediastinum. Structure [edit]. The visceral pleura is a delicate serous membrane that closely covers the surfaces of the lungs and dips into the fissures that separate
Visceral pleura Definition. It is a thin serous membrane tissue layer that sticks to the lung surface. It is the innermost of the two pleural membrane layers investing the lungs. It is also known by the name Pulmonary pleura. In Latin, this structure is referred to as Pleura visceralis and Pleura pulmonalis. It refers to a swelling of the pleural layers. The visceral pleura, which is the inmost of the two layers, becomes inflamed due to cold weather and certain infections. This can give rise to an acute burning pain which can be experienced while breathing deeply.