Diplegic cerebral palsy (CP), also known as spastic diplegia, is a form of cerebral palsy marked by tense muscles and spasms. Leg muscles in particular tend to be extremely tight, and over time, this causes joints to stiffen, reducing the range of motion. 
Cerebral palsy is caused by abnormal development or damage to the parts of the brain that control movement, balance, and posture. Often, symptoms include poor coordination, stiff muscles, weak muscles, and tremors. There may be problems with sensation, vision, hearing, swallowing and speaking. Often babies with cerebral palsy do not roll over, sit, crawl, or walk as early as other children their age.
There are a number of types of cerebral palsy – the most common is spasticity which causes the muscles to be stiff and inflexible (in this case the muscle is described as having “high tone”). Spasticity is present in around 80% of cerebral palsy cases. Anything that changes or affects the normal development of the brain can lead to problems with the way it transmits information to the muscles, and therefore can cause cerebral palsy.
Spastic Cerebral Palsy. Spastic cerebral palsy is the most common type of cerebral palsy. The muscles of people with spastic cerebral palsy appear stiff and their movements may look stiff and jerky. Spasticity is a form of hypertonia, or increased muscle tone. When people without cerebral palsy perform a movement, some groups of muscles turn on and some groups of muscles turn off. Spastic Cerebral Palsy Spastic cerebral palsy is the most common type of cerebral palsy. The muscles of people with spastic cerebral palsy appear stiff and their movements may look stiff... https://www.cerebralpalsy.org.au/what-is-cerebral-palsy/types-of-cerebral-palsy/spastic-cerebral-palsy/.
Diazepam is a benzodiazepine, a type of muscle relaxant used for cerebral palsy treatment. Diazepam is also known by the name Valium. Diazepam works by focusing on GABA receptors in the brain, helping to release the neurotransmitter chemical called GABA. The muscle relaxants used for treating cerebral palsy work by stopping the muscles from contracting. These medications cease or lesson the severity of several major symptoms occurring in cerebral palsy patients. The three primary drugs used in treating symptoms associated with cerebral palsy are muscle relaxants.
Cerebral Palsy. Cerebral palsy—also known as CP—is a condition caused by injury to the parts of the brain that control our ability to use our muscles and bodies. Cerebral means having to do with the brain. Palsy means weakness or problems with using the muscles. Several of the causes of cerebral palsy that have been identified through research are: 1  head injury, 2  jaundice, 3  Rh incompatibility, 4  rubella (German measles). 5  conditions relating to premature birth. 6  and stroke (caused by a variety of conditions, some causes unknown).
A. Spastic cerebral palsy (CP) is a disorder that causes problems with movement and balance due to a brain injury that occurs during or near the time of labor and delivery. Sometimes cerebral palsy is noticed soon after birth, but in other children, the disorder won’t be noticed until a few years later. Hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy (a lack of oxygen in the brain that causes white matter injury) is a form of brain damage that can cause spastic cerebral palsy as well as other conditions in a baby, such as a seizure disorder and hydrocephalus.
Since cerebral palsy affects the muscular movements of its sufferers, many medications for cerebral palsy target the muscles. A large part of drug therapy for cerebral palsy involves muscle relaxants. These drugs work in different ways to inhibit the muscles and nerves of the body. The muscle relaxants used for treating cerebral palsy work by stopping the muscles from contracting. These medications cease or lesson the severity of several major symptoms occurring in cerebral palsy patients. The three primary drugs used in treating symptoms associated with cerebral palsy are muscle relaxants.
The spasms cause a range of different unwanted movements. Dystonic cerebral palsy often appears in combination with other symptoms of cerebral palsy – usually the dystonic movements appear in combination with high and/or low muscle tone. For this reason, the condition is often described as cerebral palsy with dystonia. Causes. Dystonic cerebral palsy is generally caused by damage to the basal ganglia-part of the brain involved in the recruitment of muscles of movement. Anything that changes or affects the normal development of the brain can lead to problems with the way it transmits information to the muscles, and therefore can cause cerebral palsy.
Cerebral palsy is a neurological condition which primarily causes orthopedic impairment. Cerebral palsy is caused by a brain injury or brain abnormality that interferes with the brain cells responsible for controlling muscle tone, strength, and coordination. Signs and symptoms of cerebral palsy. Signs of cerebral palsy are different from symptoms of cerebral palsy. Signs are clinically identifiable effects of brain injury or malformation that cause cerebral palsy. A doctor will discern signs of a health concern during the exam and testing.