4 to 5 hours per pound. 5 to 7 hours per pound. 12 to 14 hours. 20 to 24 hours. After thawing in the refrigerator the pork can be refrigerated safely for 3 to 5 days. If you decide to not cook the meat within this time, the meat can be refrozen. Just remember that each time the meat is frozen it loses some of its quality. 
Best Answer: Yes you can safely leave them another 24 hours in the fridge until fully defrosted, but no longer than that. Soaking them in water can also speed up the time it takes to defrost them, but remember to take them out and cook them straightaway once they're defrosted. Report Abuse. You should be able to leave them for up to two days after defrosting. Make sure you take them out of the packaging, tip away any liquid and wipe them with kitchen paper, then put on a plate on the bottom shelf (to save drips in the fridge) and cover loosely with kitchen paper.
Poultry, fish and ground meat that’s been defrosted in the fridge can be kept for an additional 1 to 2 days in the refrigerator before cooking. Beef, pork, lamb or veal (roasts, steaks or chops) will keep refrigerated for another 3 to 5 days after thawing. Another plus: If you decide not to cook the thawed food, you can safely refreeze it within these same time limits. 2
NEVER thaw meat at room temperature. Allow a 24-hour thawing period in the refrigerator. After defrosting raw pork by this method, it will be safe in the refrigerator up to five days before cooking or, if you decide not to use the pork, you can safely refreeze it without cooking it first. 
Sealed, prepackaged, fresh pork cuts can be kept in the refrigerator 2 to 4 days; sealed ground pork will keep in the refrigerator for 1 to 2 days. If you do plan on keeping fresh pork longer than 2 to 3 days before cooking it, store it well-wrapped in the freezer. 
How long can you keep pork chops in freezer? Generally, fresh cuts of pork, like roasts, chops and tenderloin can be kept well-wrapped in the freezer up to 6 months. Well-wrapped ground pork can be kept for about 3 month … s in the freezer. Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container.
How long can keep defrosted pork chops in the fridge for? I put 3 pork chops in the fridge last night to defrost but they seem a little bit frozen still. Report Abuse. You should be able to leave them for up to two days after defrosting. Make sure you take them out of the packaging, tip away any liquid and wipe them with kitchen paper, then put on a plate on the bottom shelf (to save drips in the fridge) and cover loosely with kitchen paper.
Report Abuse. yes you can leave them thawed out in the fridge but to be safe i would only leave them in their for two days max any longer you could get sick. budd_86 · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 
What length of time can I keep pork in the freezer? Generally, fresh cuts of pork, like roasts, chops and tenderloin can be kept well-wrapped in the freezer up to six months. Well-wrapped ground pork can be kept for about three months in the freezer. How long can I keep my fresh pork in the refrigerator? Sealed, pre-packed fresh pork cuts can be kept in the refrigerator 2 to 4 days; sealed ground pork will keep in the refrigerator for 1 to 2 days. If you do plan on keeping the raw, fresh pork longer than 2 to 3 days before cooking it, store it well-wrapped