Passionate about all things Australian. An archipelago is a group, chain or cluster of islands surrounded by a large body of water, usually the open sea. The Philippine archipelago is one of the countries of Southeast Asia. It is officially known as the Republic of the Philippines. The term archipelago refers to how the country … consists of 7, 107 islands. Archipelago: A group of island scattered close together.
An archipelago, such as Japan, is a cluster of islands. If volcanic activity remains fairly constant, deposition of volcanic materials may actually expand an island. The Galapagos Islands are an example of an archipelago. The Aegean Sea is known as an archipelago because of the many islands that dot its surface, including dramatic Santorini. Shifting of tectonic plates may result different land masses separating or drifting away, helping to form an archipelago. View slideshow of images above. These 10 animal facts will amaze you. An archipelago is a cluster of islands frequently formed by volcanic activity. Examples can be found in the open sea as well as close to large land masses. The former is usually more common than the latter. In some cases, an archipelago forms because it is above an ocean hotspot.
Full Definition of ARCHIPELAGO. 1. : an expanse of water with many scattered islands. 2. : a group of islands. 3. See archipelago defined for English-language learners. Archipelago Aegean Sea, from Italian Arcipelago, literally, chief sea, from arci- (from Latin archi-) + Greek pelagos sea — more at plagal.
An archipelago (/ɑrkɨˈpɛləɡoʊ/ ark-i-PEL-ə-goh), sometimes called an island group or island chain, is a chain, cluster or collection of islands. The word archipelago is derived from the Greek ἄρχι- – arkhi- (chief) and πέλαγος – pelagos (pélagos) sea through The italian. arcipelago The largest archipelagic state in the world by area and population is Indonesia. The archipelago with the most islands is the Swedish East Coast Archipelago, which contains the Stockholm Archipelago, which, in turn, connects to the world's second largest archipelago, the Archipelago Sea in Finland.
Archipelago, a chain or group of islands. The term archipelago can also refer to the region of water that contains the islands. Some familiar archipelagos are the islands of Hawaii, The Bahamas, and the Aegean Sea, between Greece and Asia Minor. A large group of islands: the Philippine archipelago. 2. A sea, such as the Aegean, containing a large number of scattered islands. archipelago: Originally meaning an island-studded sea, such as the Aegean Sea, but now referring to a group of islands, such as the Bismarck Archipelago, to the east of Papua New Guinea.
We said archipelagos. That's what we're talking about today in Wonderopolis. Archipelago is a fancy geographical term for a chain or group of islands scattered across a body of water. Although archipelagos can be found in large lakes or rivers, they're most often found in the world's oceans. Several large modern countries are actually archipelagos. 
Archipelagos may be found isolated in bodies of water or neighboring a large land mass. For example, Scotland has more than 700 islands surrounding its mainland which constitute an archipelago. The largest archipelagic state in the world by area and population is Indonesia. The archipelago with the most islands is the Swedish East Coast Archipelago, which contains the Stockholm Archipelago, which, in turn, connects to the world's second largest archipelago, the Archipelago Sea in Finland.
Report Abuse. Answer No. (4) is correct. An archipelago is a chain or cluster of islands. The word archipelago literally means chief sea, from Greek arkhon (arkhi-) (leader) and pelagos (sea). A large group of islands: the Philippine archipelago. 2. A sea, such as the Aegean, containing a large number of scattered islands. archipelago: Originally meaning an island-studded sea, such as the Aegean Sea, but now referring to a group of islands, such as the Bismarck Archipelago, to the east of Papua New Guinea.
An Archipelago is a landform that is a group of many islands. Some of the most famous. archipelagos of the world are many of the islands around Japan, Hawaii and the British Islands. Most people think this type of landform is what you see on movies but that is not necessarily so. Canada has many archipelagos that are barren because of the cold