Phloem and xylem are complex tissues that perform transportation of food and water in a plant. They are the vascular tissues of the plant and together form vascular bundles. They work together as a unit to bring about effective transportation of food, nutrients, minerals and water. 
Plants have two different types of transport tissue. Xylem transports water and solutes from the roots to the leaves, phloem transports food from the leaves to the rest of the plant. Transpiration is the process by which water evaporates from the leaves, which results in more water being drawn up from the roots. Plants have adaptations to reduce excessive water loss. Xylem. Xylem vessels xylem vessel: Vein-like tissue which transports water and minerals up a plant are involved in the movement of water through a plant from its roots to its leaves. Water: 1  Is absorbed from the soil through root hair cells. 2  Is transported through the xylem vessels up the stem to the leaves.
xylem. Xylem cells in the stem carry water from a plant's roots to its leaves. The phloem distributes food that is made in the plant's leaves to other parts of the plant. The cambium cells divide into either xylem or phloem cells. The cortex and pith, seen in the stem cross section, provide structural support
Abstract. Xylem is the specialised tissue of vascular plants that transports water and nutrients from the plant–soil interface to stems and leaves, and provides mechanical support and storage. Phloem transports products of photosynthesis, primarily sucrose, from the leaves to the stem tissues and the roots. Xylem transport through sapwood moves water and nutrients from the roots to stems and leaves. Heartwood represents xylem that is no longer involved in transport.
Xylem (pronounced zye'-lum) is a pipeline that carries water and nutrients from the roots of a plant to the leaves. The term comes from the Greek, xylos or wood. It’s part of a plant’s vascular system that also includes phloem. Unlike most plant cells, the cells that form the xylem have no end walls. Xylem sap moves from roots to the leaves. It actually flows through the xylem system. In addition to carrying water and nutrients from the roots into the leaves and stems of a plant, it also repolaces water lost through transpiration and photosynthesis. The flow system is caused by three things:
Xylem and phloem are the two types of vascular tissues found in plants. Xylem tissues transport water from the roots throughout the plant, while phloem transports food (suga … rs) from photosysnthesis throughout the plant. Xylem: tubes that brings water and minerals from the roots into the leaf.
xylem vessel is a vessel in plants that transport water and minerals from the roots to parts of the plant where it is needed, through transpiration and turgor pressure in root … s. 26 people found this useful. The xylem is responsible for the transport (translocation) of water and soluble mineral nutrients from the roots throughout the plant, this facilitates the replacement of water lost during transpiration and photosynthesis.
Xylem. Definition. noun. (1) A type of vascular tissue in terrestrial plants composed of tracheary elements, tracheids and wood vessels and of additional xylem fibers, and is primarily involved in transporting water and nutrient (from the roots to the shoot and leaves) and providing structural support. 
Key Concepts: Xylem is the tissue of vascular plants that transports water and nutrients from the soil to the stems and leaves. Xylem plays an essential ‘supporting’ role providing strength to tissues and organs, to maintain plant architecture and resistance to bending. Phloem transports products of photosynthesis, primarily sucrose, from the leaves to the stem tissues and the roots. Xylem transport through sapwood moves water and nutrients from the roots to stems and leaves. Heartwood represents xylem that is no longer involved in transport.