A mushroom (or toadstool) is the fleshy, spore-bearing fruiting body of a fungus, typically produced above ground on soil or on its food source. A mushroom develops from a nodule, or pinhead, less than two millimeters in diameter, called a primordium, which is typically found on or near the surface of the substrate. It is formed within the mycelium, the mass of threadlike hyphae that make up the fungus.
Defining mushrooms. All mushrooms are fungi, but not all fungi are mushrooms. For those fungi that produce them, the mushroom plays a similar role to a flower or a fruit in plants. Some part of each mature mushroom produces microscopic spores that are similar to pollen or seeds, sometimes numbering in the trillions [1]. The rest of the fungal organism typically lives in the soil, wood, or some other material and is composed of thread-like strands known as mycelium.
Mushrooms are the fruiting bodies produced by some fungi. Not all fruit bodies are true mushrooms. Puffballs and morels are edible fruit bodies that are sometimes called mushrooms. The function of this visible part of some fungi is to produce and disperse the largest possible number of spores in the shortest possible time. True mushrooms typically look like umbrellas. They consist of a stalk topped by a flat or cup-shaped cap. Their spores are produced on special cells called basidia, located on the underside of the cap. The class of fungi whose spores are produced by basidia are called Basidiomycetes.
Medical Definition of MUSHROOM. 1. : an enlarged complex fleshy fruiting body of a fungus (as most basidiomycetes) that arises from an underground mycelium and consists typically of a stem bearing a spore-bearing structure; especially: one that is edible—compare toadstool. 2. Full Definition of MUSHROOM. 1. a: an enlarged complex aboveground fleshy fruiting body of a fungus (as a basidiomycete) that consists typically of a stem bearing a pileus; especially: one that is edible b: fungus. 2.
Mushroom describes a variety of gilled fungi, with or without stems, and the term is used even more generally, to describe both the fleshy fruiting bodies of some Ascomycota and the woody or leathery fruiting bodies of some Basidiomycota, depending upon the context of the word. A mushroom develops from a nodule, or pinhead, less than two millimeters in diameter, called a primordium, which is typically found on or near the surface of the substrate. It is formed within the mycelium, the mass of threadlike hyphae that make up the fungus.
1 mushroom-Before it was a mushroom, it was called either toadstool or funge, from Latin fungus; small mushrooms are called buttons, medium-sized ones are cups, and the largest are flat or open mushrooms. 2  fly agaric-A mushroom with a narcotic juice that, in sufficient quantities, is poisonous. Some mushrooms are edible; others are poisonous. 1  mushroom-Before it was a mushroom, it was called either toadstool or funge, from Latin fungus; small mushrooms are called buttons, medium-sized ones are cups, and the largest are flat or open mushrooms.
Magic mushrooms are a type of illegal drug which have been in existence for many years. As the name implies, this drug is actually a type of mushroom which is chewed to achieve hallucinogenic effects. Signs/Symptoms of Magic Mushrooms. The symptoms of magic mushroom use can be very similar to effects received from the drug LSD although they do not last as long as the effects of LSD. LSD and magic mushrooms can both be very dangerous drugs.
Water Mushrooms need water for their fruit to grow. That is why a saucer and a humidity tent is included with Mushroom Kits TM. Mushrooms have no skin so they can lose water to the atmosphere very easily. That is why they grow in high humidity (lots of water vapor in the air) conditions. But at one time, Fungi, including mushrooms, were believed to be close relatives of plants so much of their nomenclature (names for parts of the mushroom) are close to the names used for plant parts. It is the fruit (like an apple) of the mushroom body and contain mushroom seeds called spores.
The standard for the name mushroom is the cultivated white button mushroom, Agaricus bisporus; hence the word mushroom is most often applied to those fungi (Basidiomycota, Agaricomycetes) that have a stem (stipe), a cap (pileus), and gills (lamellae, sing. A mushroom develops from a nodule, or pinhead, less than two millimeters in diameter, called a primordium, which is typically found on or near the surface of the substrate. It is formed within the mycelium, the mass of threadlike hyphae that make up the fungus.