A gherkin is a small early cucumber that is pickled. Gherkin is derived from the Dutch word gurkkijn and pickle is from the Dutch pickel. American gherkins are between 1 - 3 inches (3 - 8 cm) in length, while American dill pickles can be twice as long.
Gherkins vs Pickles. A gherkin is a fruit that has similar constituents to a cucumber in terms of nutritional content. Mainly in North America, gherkins refer to the young cucumber that is pickled, usually measuring about 1-3 inches long. Gherkins are usually picked when they have grown to a length of 3 inches. They will then be pickled in cans containing vinegar or brine. In North America, a pickle, or pickled cucumber, is one that has been left to ferment in brine or vinegar for a given length of time.
Summary: 1. Gherkins are a smaller kind of cucumber that have been pickled, while pickles are cucumbers that have been pickled in brine or vinegar. 2. Gherkins are pickles, whereas pickles are not gherkins, they may just be pickling cucumbers. Gherkins are usually picked when they have grown to a length of 3 inches. They will then be pickled in cans containing vinegar or brine. In North America, a pickle, or pickled cucumber, is one that has been left to ferment in brine or vinegar for a given length of time.
so cucumber is when unpickled pickle is a cucumber thats been pickled in brine etc and a gherkin is a smaller variety of cucumber thats been pickled.....wow wat a mouth full say that ten times with a mouth full of pickles hahaha. Basically, cucumber refers to an unpickled vegetable, pickle refers to a pickled one, and gherkin refers to a tiny pickled one. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cucumber http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pickled_cuc...
Full Definition of GHERKIN. 1. a: a small prickly fruit used for pickling; also: a pickle made from this fruit b: the slender annual vine (Cucumis anguria) of the gourd family that bears gherkins. 2. : the immature fruit of the cucumber especially when used for pickling.
• While a pickle can be made from a large variety of food items, in US, Canada, and Australia, it is a word used to refer to pickled cucumbers. • Gherkin is a term that is used for pickled cucumber in UK and the rest of Europe. • Both Gherkin and pickle are eaten with sandwiches, to make it tastier. • Gherkin is smaller and crunchier than pickle. • Gherkin is a type of pickle and there are many more varieties of pickles such as Cornichon.
The gherkin pickle is a cucumber that has been pickled in a brine. It is often left to ferment with sugar, herbs such as parsley of tarragon, and some fruit juices, but the un … derlying vegetable must always be a cucumber for it to be considered a gherkin. Contrary to popular believe, gherkins are not cucumbers. Gherkins and cucumbers are related but not the same plant race. This is a slight difference botanically, but quite a difference in taste and appearance.