The Maldives is an archipelagic nation of 1190 islands scattered across the Central Indian Ocean, belonging to the continent of Asia. The closest neighbours to the Maldives are India and Sri Lanka. 
Located in the continent of Asia, Maldives covers 298 square kilometers of land, making it the 214th largest nation in terms of land area. Maldives became an independent state in 1965, after gaining its sovereignty from The United Kingdom. 
The Maldives are a group of islands of the south west tip of India. 1 If you look on a map you will find the Maldives s…. 2  The Most Popular Books on Africa If you want to learn about the continent of Africa and its people, culture and heritage, then reading a few books on the topic is the next best thing to actually visiting the….
The Maldives (/ˈmɔːldaɪvz/ , /ˈmɔːldiːvz/ or /ˈmaeldaɪvz/), ˈmældaɪvz officially The republic Of (Maldives: maldivian ދިވެހިރާއްޖޭގެ ޖުމްހޫރިއްޔާ Dhivehi'raa Jeyge), jumhooriyya is an island country and archipelago in The Indian. Ocean it is located southwest Of india And Sri lanka in The Laccadive. sea The largest island of Maldives is Gan, which belongs to Laamu Atoll or Hahdhummathi Maldives. In Addu Atoll the westernmost islands are connected by roads over the reef (collectively called Link Road) and the total length of the road is 14 km (9 mi).
The Maldives (/ˈmɔːldaɪvz/ , /ˈmɔːldiːvz/ or /ˈmaeldaɪvz/), ˈmældaɪvz officially The republic Of (Maldives: maldivian ދިވެހިރާއްޖޭގެ ޖުމްހޫރިއްޔާ Dhivehi'raa Jeyge), jumhooriyya is an island country and archipelago in The Indian. ocean The largest island of Maldives is Gan, which belongs to Laamu Atoll or Hahdhummathi Maldives. In Addu Atoll the westernmost islands are connected by roads over the reef (collectively called Link Road) and the total length of the road is 14 km (9 mi).
Maldives is a country with a small population which is located in the continent/region of Asia. Countries near Maldives include Sri Lanka, India, Seychelles and Oman. Its biggest cities and towns include Male, Hithadhoo, Mahibadhoo and Hitaddu. 
The Maldives has a tropical-monsoon climate, which is affected by the large landmass of South Asia to the north. The presence of this landmass causes differential heating of land and water. These factors set off a rush of moisture-rich air from the Indian Ocean over South Asia, resulting in the southwest monsoon. The largest island of Maldives is Gan, which belongs to Laamu Atoll or Hahdhummathi Maldives. In Addu Atoll the westernmost islands are connected by roads over the reef (collectively called Link Road) and the total length of the road is 14 km (9 mi).
Maldives geography constitutes of its location, climate, landforms, vegetation and wildlife of the islands. A part of the Asian continent, the geography of Maldives is unique. Nowhere else can one find such a huge concentration of coral islands forming the atolls in the Indian Ocean as you can see in Maldives. The Maldives archipelago is on the south-southwestern region off the coast of India. Maldives climate, an important aspect of Maldives geography, is predominantly tropical in nature. The flat topography is dotted with beaches of white sand. The islands forming the Maldives archipelago have a coastline stretching for 644km. The total land area of Maldives is 300sq. km.
The Maldives is a nation made up of 1200 islands; found in the Indian Ocean, South Asia. The isles consist of a population of 350,000 and white sandy beaches. 1 If you look on a map you will find the Maldives s…. 2  The Most Popular Books on Africa If you want to learn about the continent of Africa and its people, culture and heritage, then reading a few books on the topic is the next best thing to actually visiting the….
Historically linked with the Indian subcontinent, the Maldives is a Muslim-majority country. From the mid-sixteenth century, it was dominated by colonial powers: Portugal, the Netherlands and Britain. The islands gained independence from the British Empire in 1965, becoming a republic in 1968. The largest island of Maldives is Gan, which belongs to Laamu Atoll or Hahdhummathi Maldives. In Addu Atoll the westernmost islands are connected by roads over the reef (collectively called Link Road) and the total length of the road is 14 km (9 mi).