Step by step: 1  Set your camera on a tripod. 2  Set the camera to M (manual mode). 3  Set focus to manual with focus set to infinity. 4  Set focal length to 16mm or use the 35mm prime. 5  Set aperture to f/3.5 or f/1.8 depending on which lens. 6  Set shutter speed to 20 or 10 depending on lens. 7  Set ISO to 3200. 1
Shooting with a Point-and-Shoot: Time-Settings. Some point-and-shoot cameras have an interval setting buried deep in their menu somewhere, but most don’t, which means that, unless you want to sit there holding your camera however long and manually take the pictures, point-and-shoot cameras might not be your best bet. Alright, so it’s not time-travel. All time-lapse photography is, really, is shooting a bunch of photos of the same thing, spread out over a period of time, and smushing them together into one video that plays back in a shorter amount of time.
Explorer of Light Vincent Laforet explains the basics of time lapse photography in this beautiful series. Travel with him from the rugged canyons of Utah to the Las Vegas Strip, and learn how to make your own unique time lapse movies. 
A cable intervalometer-used to set the exposure length and interval of the images. This is probably the one thing you don't have, but they can be found cheap on the web. Not necessarily needed if your camera has one built in, but I still prefer to have a remote. A computer-used to process the images. Step 1: Materials. There are just a few things you need to get started with shooting star trails and time lapse, most of which you probably have sitting around at home: A DSLR Camera A Stable Tripod for your camera to sit on. It needs to be able to keep the camera perfectly still for long periods of time.
Camera Settings. When it comes to choosing settings for you camera, you need to balance a few things. First, you want to let as much light into your camera as possible to get a good exposure for the stars. You do this with a wide open aperture, a slow shutter speed an a high ISO. Two of these things are easier to determine that the last. Set your aperture as wide as it will go. As the earth rotates, the stars appear to move across the sky during the night, but they move so slowly that the only way to really appreciate this phenomenon is through time lapse footage. We'll cover finding a location, choosing your gear, setting up your camera and doing the post-production.
If we are thinking only of how the final video will look, we’ll skip the details that make the difference between a good shot and an epic image. 5 .- Basic camera settings. Some people will tell you that auto/priority mode and Jpg files are the best settings to make a “time-lapse”. Just as no one uses those settings when taking some quality photographs, to achieve professional results in time lapse we will use manual exposure and RAW files. 2 .- Don´t forget anything. When you go shooting time-lapse, you can spend several hours standing on a rock in the middle of nowhere, so you have to be well prepared. I wouldn´t want to sound like your mom, but it is worth reminding you that you should take with you enough of water and food.
1 A Camera With Manual Controls – Manual control of your ISO and shutter speed are going to be essential for photographing the stars. 2  A Wide Aperture Lens – You’ll need a lot of light and f/2.8 seems to be the butter zone for astrophotography. 1 Tripod – We’re going to be dealing with exposures in the tens of seconds and I don’t care who you are, you’re going to need something to stabilize your camera. 2  A Camera With Manual Controls – Manual control of your ISO and shutter speed are going to be essential for photographing the stars.
Since you’re setting the exposure time (shutter speed) of the camera to 25 seconds, there will be a 5-second delay between pictures. This 5-second delay should be enough time for your camera to write the captured image to the memory card and get ready to capture the next photo. This might have been the perfect setting for the beginning of the time-lapse, but as the sun set the color of the ambient light changed, yet the camera was still fixed on Tungsten. LRTimelapse allows you to set key frames (stars) on your images and then make adjustments to just those key frames inside Adobe Lightroom.
Canon 20Da controls and settings with backlight for viewing in the dark. Camera settings These settings are usually set with controls on the top or back of the camera, but depending on the model or manufacturer, may be set in menus. Program Mode-Set to Manual. Autofocus-Turn off, or set to Manual. Shutter Speed-Set to the exposure you want, up to 30 seconds can usually be dialed in directly. For longer than 30 seconds, set to Bulb. On some cameras, Bulb may be a separate exposure mode setting, or it may be accessed on the shutter speed dial past the 30 second setting.