The asteroid belt is the region of the Solar System located roughly between the orbits of the planets Mars and Jupiter. Ceres, the asteroid belt's only dwarf planet, is about 950 km in diameter, whereas Vesta, Pallas, and Hygiea have mean diameters of less than 600 km.
The asteroid belt in our solar system, located between Mars and Jupiter, is a region of millions of space rocks that sits near the snow line, which marks the border of a cold region where volatile material such as water ice is far enough from the sun to remain intact. 
Most of the asteroids in our Solar system are located between the  orbits of Mars and Jupiter. It is referred to as the Asteroid belt.  They are rocky remnants left over fro … m the early formation of our  solar system about 4.6 billion years ago. Most of the asteroids in our solar system are located within the asteroid belt, which consists of millions of individual asteroids, and is found between the orbits of Mars and … Jupiter. Answered.
Asteroids are small, metallic or rocky in composition, and have no atmosphere. Most asteroids orbit the sun within a broad belt located between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter: the asteroid belt. Millions of asteroids are under 0.6 mile (1 kilometer) in diameter, but there are many that are larger. The biggest, Ceres, is 590 miles (950 kilometers) in diameter. M-type (metallic) are bright and composed mostly of iron. While most asteroids are located in the main belt, asteroids can be located throughout the solar system. Those with orbits that carry them close by Earth are known as Near-Earth Asteroids (NEAs). They can have the potential to someday strike our planet.
The dwarf planet called Ceres orbits the Sun in the asteroid belt. An asteroid is a bit of rock. It can be thought of as what was left over after the Sun and all the planets were formed. Most of the asteroids in our solar system can be found orbiting the Sun between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter. This area is sometimes called the asteroid belt.
Most of the asteroids in our Solar system are located between the  orbits of Mars and Jupiter. It is referred to as the Asteroid belt.  They are rocky remnants left over fro … m the early formation of our  solar system about 4.6 billion years ago. Between Mars and Jupiter in the asteroid belt The largest collection of asteroids is found in the asteroid belt, a ring located between the
Most of the asteroids in our solar system are located within the asteroid belt, which consists of millions of individual asteroids, and is found between the orbits of Mars and … Jupiter. Answered. In Planetary Science. Between Mars and Jupiter in the asteroid belt The largest collection of asteroids is found in the asteroid belt, a ring located between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter.
Today, most asteroids orbit the sun in a tightly packed belt located between Mars and Jupiter. Comets are relegated to either a cloud or belt on the solar system fringe. Gravitational tugs, orbital collisions, and interstellar jostles occasionally perturb an asteroid or comet onto a wayward path. 
Asteroid belt is the region in the solar system located between the orbits of planets Mars and Jupiter. this region is accompanied by the numerous irregular shaped asteroids and minor objects. Most of the asteroids in our solar system are located within the asteroid belt, which consists of millions of individual asteroids, and is found between the orbits of Mars and … Jupiter. Answered.