Histoplasmosis is an infection caused by breathing in spores of a fungus often found in bird and bat droppings. Histoplasmosis is most commonly transmitted when these spores become airborne, often during cleanup or demolition projects. Soil contaminated by bird or bat droppings also can transmit histoplasmosis, so farmers and landscapers are at a higher risk of contracting the disease.
Histoplasmosis is a disease caused by an infection with a fungus known as Histoplasma capsulatum, which is found in the environment, most frequently in association with bird or bat droppings. The infection can cause a lung disease similar to pneumonia in some people. 1 Histoplasmosis is disease caused by an infection with a fungus, Histoplasma capsulatum. 2  The infection results from inhaling airborne spores of the fungus.
Histoplasmosis. Histoplasmosis is an infection caused by a fungus called Histoplasma. The fungus lives in the environment, particularly in soil that contains large amounts of bird or bat droppings. 
histoplasmosis. An infection caused by inhalation of the fungus Histoplasma capsulatum found in soil dust. It manifests by a self-limited pneumonitis, which occasionally progresses and may affect the eye. Histoplasmosis is an infectious disease caused by inhaling the microscopic spores of the fungus Histoplasma capsulatum. The disease exists in three forms. Acute or primary histoplasmosis causes flulike symptoms. Most people who are infected recover without medical intervention
Introduction. Histoplasmosis is an infection caused by a fungus, called Histoplasma capsulatum (H. capsulatum). The fungus lives in the soil, and is breathed in through a person’s lungs. 
an infection caused by inhalation of spores of the fungus Histoplasma capsulatum. Most cases are asymptomatic. Individuals who experience symptoms are usually either immunocompromised or have been exposed to a high inoculum. Primary histoplasmosis is characterized by fever, malaise, cough, and lymphadenopathy. Histoplasmosis is an infectious disease caused by inhaling the microscopic spores of the fungus Histoplasma capsulatum. The disease exists in three forms. Acute or primary histoplasmosis causes flulike symptoms. Most people who are infected recover without medical intervention
Causes. Histoplasmosis is caused by the reproductive cells (spores) of the fungus Histoplasma capsulatum. The spores are extremely light and float into the air when dirt or other contaminated material is disturbed. Even if you've had histoplasmosis in the past, you can still get the infection again. 