plumbing, plumbing system-utility consisting of the pipes and fixtures for the distribution of water or gas in a building and for the disposal of sewage. shower-a plumbing fixture that sprays water over you; they installed a shower in the bathroom.
Each of these plumbing fixtures has one or more water outlets and a drain. In some cases, the drain has a device that can be manipulated to block the drain to fill the basin of the fixture.
Plumbing Fixtures. Depending on what style you like, you can coordinate your bathroom and kitchen fixtures to suit your tastes. Colors, materials and finishes can dictate your style, whether it is traditional, contemporary, or a transitional mix.
Most plumbing fixtures for home use can be broken down into three categories: kitchen fixtures, bathroom fixtures, and plumbing system fixtures. In the kitchen, one of the most familiar types of fixtures is a sink, which is generally used for cleaning food and dishes, or washing hands.
A plumbing fixture is an exchangeable device which can be connected to a plumbing system to deliver and drain water.
1. plumbing fixture-a fixture for the distribution and use of water in a building. fixture-an object firmly fixed in place (especially in a household). fount, fountain-a plumbing fixture that provides a flow of water.
hydrant; tap; water faucet; water tap (a faucet for drawing water from a pipe or cask). Holonyms (plumbing fixture is a part of...): plumbing; plumbing system (utility consisting of the pipes and fixtures for the distribution of water or gas in a building and for the disposal of sewage).
1. plumbing-utility consisting of the pipes and fixtures for the distribution of water or gas in a building and for the disposal of sewage. plumbing system. plumbing fixture-a fixture for the distribution and use of water in a building.
Plumbing fixtures generally refers to parts of a plumbing system that have a distinct use and application. This differentiates fixtures from other types of plumbing parts, such as pipes, which only carry water. For example, a faucet is a type of fixture because it can be turned on to release water.