History. The Canadian Pacific Railway was a project started by the Prime Minister of Canada; Sir John A. Macdonald. British Columbia had wanted to join the Confederation of Canada, so they decided that a railway would be the best way to transport people, and many other items. In the 1950's the Canadian Pacific Railway started to use diesel. They completely stopped using steam in the 1960's. In 1971 the Canadian Pacific Railway had grown outside of just the railway, so they changed the name from Canadian Pacific Railway to Canadian Pacific Limited.
The Canadian Pacific Railway (CPR), formerly also known as CP Rail (reporting mark CP) between 1968 and 1996, is a historic Canadian Class I rail carrier founded in 1881 and now operated by Canadian Pacific Railway Limited (TSX: CP, NYSE: CP), which began operations as legal owner in a corporate restructuring in 2001. Under the initial contract with the Canadian government to build the railway, the CPR was granted 25 million acres (100,000 km 2). Proving already to be a very resourceful organization, Canadian Pacific began an intense campaign to bring immigrants to Canada.
The railway was originally built between Eastern Canada and British Columbia between 1881 and 1885 (connecting with Ottawa Valley and Georgian Bay area lines built earlier), fulfilling a promise extended to British Columbia when it entered Confederation in 1871. Under the initial contract with the Canadian government to build the railway, the CPR was granted 25 million acres (100,000 km 2). Proving already to be a very resourceful organization, Canadian Pacific began an intense campaign to bring immigrants to Canada.
The Canadian Pacific Railway began its westward expansion from Bonfield, Ontario (previously called Callander Station), where the first spike was driven into a sunken railway tie. Bonfield was inducted into Canadian Railway Hall of Fame in 2002 as the CPR first spike location. Under the initial contract with the Canadian government to build the railway, the CPR was granted 25 million acres (100,000 km 2). Proving already to be a very resourceful organization, Canadian Pacific began an intense campaign to bring immigrants to Canada.
The Last Spike signalled the completion of the CPR which today remains a symbol of national unity in Canada. At the time, it fulfilled an 1871 commitment made by the Federal government to British Columbia which stipulated that a railway be built joining the Pacific province to Eastern Canada. In this particular one Donald Alexander Smith, the most senior director of the company then present, and later to become Lord Strathcona, taps in the Last Spike on the Canadian Pacific Railway at Craigellachie, British Columbia, at Eagle Pass in the Gold Range.
It was able to bring colonists from all over the world to settle in Canada West. Without the railway, Canada West would not have been able to develop so effectively. Also, whe … n British Columbia entered Confederation, they were promised a railway. 
​​​​ Canadian Pacific Rail way was founded in 1881 to link Canada's populated centres with the vast potential of its relatively unpopulated West. This incredible engineering feat was completed on Nov.7, 1885 - six years ahead of schedule-when the last spike was driven at Craigellachie, B.C. CPR's 14,000-mile network extends from the Port of Vancouver in the Canada's West to The Port of Montreal in Canada's East, and to the U.S. industrial centers of Chicago, Newark, Philadelphia, Washington, New York City and Buffalo.
The Last Spike of the Canadian Pacific Railway Company (CPR) was a final iron spike completing the CPR between Montreal and Port Moody driven at Craigellachie, British Columbia. It was driven into the tie by Donald Smith, later to become Lord Strathcona, on the morning of 7 Nov 1885. In this particular one Donald Alexander Smith, the most senior director of the company then present, and later to become Lord Strathcona, taps in the Last Spike on the Canadian Pacific Railway at Craigellachie, British Columbia, at Eagle Pass in the Gold Range.
By 1986, Canadian Pacific, as it became known, was Canada's second largest company with $15 billion in revenue. In addition to Canadian Pacific Railway, the company's subsidiaries included PanCanadian Energy, Fording Coal, CP (later Fairmont) Hotels and, CP Ships. CPR's 14,000-mile network extends from the Port of Vancouver in the Canada's West to The Port of Montreal in Canada's East, and to the U.S. industrial centers of Chicago, Newark, Philadelphia, Washington, New York City and Buffalo.
In the 1930's Canada was in the Depression, the Canadian Pacific Railway was greatly affected by this because of the lack of money people were trying to find less expensive ways to travel. In 1939 after the depression World War 2 started. In the 1950's the Canadian Pacific Railway started to use diesel. They completely stopped using steam in the 1960's. In 1971 the Canadian Pacific Railway had grown outside of just the railway, so they changed the name from Canadian Pacific Railway to Canadian Pacific Limited.