Oath. The origin of the modern Hippocratic Oath is not 100% certain, despite the credit to Dean Lasagna. The Encyclopedia of Bioethics (2003) says:  1 A document patterned after the Oath of Hippocrates appeared in 1948, when the newly organized World Medical Association (WMA) adopted the Declaration of Geneva.
The Hippocratic oath was an oath generally thought to be written in the 4th century BCE by Hippocrates, who is considered by many to be the founder of modern medicine. Some now question Hippocrates' authorship, and certain scholars believe that instead, Pythagoras may have authored the it.
Hippocratic Oath: One of the oldest binding documents in history, the Oath written by Hippocrates is still held sacred by physicians: to treat the ill to the best of one's ability, to preserve a patient's privacy, to teach the secrets of medicine to the next generation, and so on.
Hippocrates (460-370 BC)A guide to the Hippocratic Oath. By Dr Daniel Sokol Medical ethicist. Written nearly 2,500 years ago, the Oath is the most famous text in Western medicine, yet most people (including doctors) know precious little about it. Here is a brief guide to the Oath.
Their third answer was Hippocrates, presumed author of the Hippocratic Oath-I breathed a sigh of relief. Written nearly 2,500 years ago, the Oath is the most famous text in Western medicine, yet most people (including doctors) know precious little about it.
Perhaps the most enduring-certainly the most quoted-tradition in the history of medicine is the Hippocratic Oath. Named after the famous Greek physician Hippocrates, this oath was written as a guideline for the medical ethics of doctors.
The Hippocratic Oath was written in the 4th century B.C. by Hippocrates.
The Hippocratic Oath is one of the oldest binding documents in history. Written in antiquity, its principles are held sacred by doctors to this day: treat the sick to the best of one's ability, preserve patient privacy, teach the secrets of medicine to the next generation, and so on.
It has nothing to do with the Hippocratic oath. They sound similar but their roots mean different things.   Hippocratic oath is a Code of Conduct for practicing medicin … e. It was written by the accepted father of medicine, Hippocrates of Kos ['ιπποκράτης ο κώος], and was honoured for centuries.