Pleasant falls -- often dry. Overall -- semi-arid with precip gradually increasing as you go eastward into Kansas and Nebraska -- dry winters, wetter springs and summer, highly changeable weather, often windy, and some occasional monstrous thunderstorms with damaging hail. --provided by Nolan Doesken, Colorado Climate Center. Some very cold temperatures alternating with some surprisingly warm days. Windy springs with highly changeable weather, an occasional blizzard, large temperature changes and an occasional gentle soaking rain or wet snow to help nurture the grasslands.
As far as I know, there are two types of rattlesnakes in Colorado on the front range: the western diamondback and the western or prairie rattler. Neither are particularly aggr … essive (I've stepped on a western diamondback and not been bit) but both are dangerous and should be avoided. Yes the climate is pretty close to that of Colorado, if you are in the Alp mountains. If you are not, then the temperatures can get very hot. There are even some palm trees in … the southern part of the country! :-).
Colorado Springs is a Home Rule Municipality that is the county seat and the most populous municipality of El Paso County, Colorado, United States. Colorado Springs is located in the east central portion of the state. It is situated on Fountain Creek and is located 60 miles (97 km) south of the Colorado State Capitol in Denver. Colorado Springs is situated near the base of one of the most famous American mountains, Pikes Peak, rising over 8,000 feet above the city on the eastern edge of the Southern Rocky Mountains. The United States Air Force Academy is located in Colorado Springs.
The city had an estimated population of 445,830 in 2014, ranking as the second most populous city in the state of Colorado, behind Denver, and the 42nd most populous city in the United States. The Colorado Springs, CO Metropolitan Statistical Area had an estimated population of 678,319 in 2013. Colorado Springs is situated near the base of one of the most famous American mountains, Pikes Peak, rising over 8,000 feet above the city on the eastern edge of the Southern Rocky Mountains. The United States Air Force Academy is located in Colorado Springs.
Colorado (/kɒləˈraedoʊ/ , kɒləˈrædoʊ /or/) kɒləˈrɑːdoʊ is A.U. s state encompassing most of The Southern Rocky mountains as well as the northeastern portion of The Colorado plateau and the western edge of The Great. Plains colorado is part of The Western United, states The Southwestern United, states and The Mountain. states The climate of Colorado is more complex than states outside of the Mountain States region. Unlike most other states, southern Colorado is not always warmer than northern Colorado. Most of Colorado is made up of mountains, foothills, high plains, and desert lands.
The most dramatic feature is Pike's Peak near Colorado Springs where elevations rise abruptly from less then 5,000 feet near Pueblo in the Arkansas Valley to over 14,000 feet at the top of the mountain. Some very cold temperatures alternating with some surprisingly warm days. Windy springs with highly changeable weather, an occasional blizzard, large temperature changes and an occasional gentle soaking rain or wet snow to help nurture the grasslands.
Four of the Nation's major rivers have their source in Colorado: the Colorado, the Rio Grande, the Arkansas, and the Platte. GENERAL CLIMATE The combination of high elevation, mid latitude interior continent geography results in a cool, dry but invigorating climate. Some very cold temperatures alternating with some surprisingly warm days. Windy springs with highly changeable weather, an occasional blizzard, large temperature changes and an occasional gentle soaking rain or wet snow to help nurture the grasslands.
Earlier records are either unavailable or unreliable. Colorado Springs, Colorado has a cold semi-arid steppe climate. The area within 25 mi of this station is covered by forests (43%), grasslands (28%), and shrublands (27%). 
Colorado Springs, Colorado, gets 16 inches of rain per year. The US average is 37. Snowfall is 41 inches. The average US city gets 25 inches of snow per year. The number of days with any measurable precipitation is 89. On average, there are 243 sunny days per year in Colorado Springs, Colorado. The July high is around 85 degrees. The January low is 16. Our comfort index, which is based on humidity during the hot months, is a 67 out of 100, where higher is more comfortable.