By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Delocalized Electron Definition: A delocalized electron is an electron in a atom, ion or molecule not associated with any single atom or a single covalent bond. Delocalized electrons contribute to the conductivity of the atom, ion or molecule. Materials with many delocalized electrons tend to be highly conductive
Delocalised electrons are spread across more than one atom. Usually electrons in materials are bound to one atom, and atoms are held together by the interactions of the charges on different atoms. In some cases, electrons can be shared between atoms, and are then called delocalised. In the case of hydrocarbons, delocalisation occurs in Benzene rings, where a hexagon of six carbon atoms has delocalised electrons spread over the whole ring.
Answers. Best Answer: Localized electrons are electrons that are located within the electron cloud of a particular atom. Delocalized electrons are electrons not associated with any particular atom, and exist in metallic bonds. The electrons form sort of a web around and bond neighboring metallic atoms. Diagram: http://info.lu.farmingdale.edu/depts/met... The electrons in the diagram are delocalized
Key Takeaway. 1  Molecular orbital theory, a delocalized approach to bonding, can often explain a compound’s color, why a compound with unpaired electrons is stable, semiconductor behavior, and resonance, none of which can be explained using a localized approach. The single electron occupies the σ 1 s bonding molecular orbital, giving a (σ 1 s) electron configuration. The number of electrons in an orbital is indicated by a superscript. In this case, the bond order is (1−0) ÷ 2 = 12.
Benzene, with the delocalization of the electrons indicated by the circle. In chemistry, delocalized electrons are electrons in a molecule, ion or solid metal that are not associated with a single atom or a covalent bond. The term is general and can have slightly different meanings in different fields. In organic chemistry, this refers to resonance in conjugated systems and aromatic compounds. In the simple aromatic ring of benzene the delocalization of six π electrons over the C 6 ring is often graphically indicated by a circle. The fact that the six C-C bonds are equidistant is one indication of this delocalization. In valence bond theory, delocalization in benzene is represented by resonance structures.
Best Answer: A pi bond occurs when two sets of electron orbitals, involved in the bond, overlap. A common example occurs in benzene. Delocalization is the phenomena by which electrons or bonds are transient in nature. A delocalized pi-bond means that this pi system can exist in several conformations and thus is not considered to be in either conformation, but all of them at once. It is actually called a delocalized pi bond to distinguish it from the pi bonds that are localized alongside two carbon atoms to form the double and triple bonds that we dealt with earlier in this lesson. This super or delocalized pi bond is unusually stable.
Confidence votes 229. Delocalised The term 'delocalised' refers to an electron which is not 'attached' to a particular atom. For example, in metals, some of the outer electrons are delocalised and are free to move around the whole metal solid. This is why metals conduct electricity. Another example of delocalised electrons is in benzene (C6H6), a cyclic molecule composed of a ring of bonded carbons, with one hydrogen attached to each. In benzene, the electrons in the C-C pi-bonds (basically the double bonds) are delocalised the whole molecule