A recent study linking rotenone a pesticide with a natural image, commonly used in organic farming and gardening to Parkinson s disease, has increased demand for a level playing field in the safety assessment of pesticides. The use of the ground root of certain species of Derris was patented in 1912, since when it has been established that the active compounds are rotenoids, of which the main insecticide is rotenone(7). Rotenone is sold in dispersible powder, emulsifiable concentrate, and wettable powder formulations(8).
Rotenone FAQ's. Rotenone is the most commonly used compound for treating lakes. It has been used in numerous lakes and reservoirs in Oregon with great success to remove unwanted fish species and restore traditional fisheries. Diamond Lake was treated in 1954 with rotenone and treatment was 100 percent successful. A. Rotenone is used as a garden insecticide to control chewing insects, has been used as a dust on cattle, and is used as a dog and sheep dip, in addition to its use as a fish control agent.
Rotenone is a naturally-occurring compound derived from the roots of tropical plants in the genus Derris, Lonchocarpus or Tephrosia. Readily absorbed through the gills, rotenone is lethal to fish because it blocks the biochemical process that allows fish to utilize the oxygen in their blood during cellular respiration. Because of the low concentration used for fish management, rotenone use poses little threat to birds or mammals, including humans.
Rotenone is used as a pesticide, insecticide, and as a nonselective piscicide (fish killer). It is commercialized as cube, cubé, tuba or, derris in single preparation or in synergistic combination with other. insecticides Rotenone works by interfering with the electron transport chain in mitochondria. To be specific, it inhibits the transfer of electrons from iron-sulfur centers in complex I to ubiquinone.
Another product marketed by pbi contains a mixture of rotenone and sulphur, both a fungicide and insecticide(9). Products containing rotenone are registered in Denmark, Ireland, UK, France, Spain, Italy(10). One product for fisheries management is also approved in Sweden, for restricted use(11). The use of the ground root of certain species of Derris was patented in 1912, since when it has been established that the active compounds are rotenoids, of which the main insecticide is rotenone(7). Rotenone is sold in dispersible powder, emulsifiable concentrate, and wettable powder formulations(8).
Rotenone is a naturally occurring substance derived from the roots of tropical plants in the bean and pea family that are found primarily in Malaysia, South America, and East Africa. The concentration of active rotenone used to eradicate fish varies with the target species and environmental conditions from 12.5 to 200 p; which is 12.5 to 200 parts of rotenone in pb1,000,000,000 parts of water (equivalent to 0.07– 1.1 lb [1.1 – 18 oz] of rotenone in an Olympic-size swimming pool of 666,430 gallons).
Rotenone is the piscicide most often used to kill fish. Rotenone is a naturally occurring compound derived from the roots of certain tropical and subtropical legume plants. Humans have been using it for centuries to harvest fish and manipulate fish communities. Rotenone kills by interfering with cellular use of oxygen. 
Rotenone is an odorless, colorless, crystalline ketonic chemical compound used as a broad-spectrum insecticide, piscicide, and pesticide. It occurs naturally in the seeds and stems of several plants, such as the jicama vine plant, and the roots of several members of Fabaceae. Rotenone works by interfering with the electron transport chain in mitochondria. To be specific, it inhibits the transfer of electrons from iron-sulfur centers in complex I to ubiquinone.
Rotenone is a resinous compound produced by the roots of two members of the Leguminoceae family. Its common use is to control various leaf-feeding caterpillars, beetles, aphids and thrips on a wide variety of vegetables and small fruits. 
Rotenone is used as a pesticide, insecticide, and as a nonselective piscicide (fish killer). It is commercialized as cube, cubé, tuba or, derris in single preparation or in synergistic combination with other. Insecticides in The United states And, canada all uses of rotenone except as a piscicide are being phased. out Rotenone works by interfering with the electron transport chain in mitochondria. To be specific, it inhibits the transfer of electrons from iron-sulfur centers in complex I to ubiquinone.