There are two groups of bases: Pyrimidines: Cytosine and Thymine each have a single six-member ring. Purines: Guanine and Adenine each have a double ring made up of a five-atom ring attached by one side to a six-atom ring. The order of nucleotides along DNA polymers encode the genetic information carried by DNA.
Most DNA is located in the cell nucleus (where it is called nuclear DNA), but a small amount of DNA can also be found in the mitochondria (where it is called mitochondrial DNA or mtDNA). The information in DNA is stored as a code made up of four chemical bases: adenine (A), guanine (G), cytosine (C), and thymine (T). 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: There are four different bases that make up DNA. They are Adenine(A), Thymine(T), Cytosine(C), and Guanine(G). If you are only taking Biology, then you shouldn't need to know what each does. But I will tell you one another thing that maybe helpful in the future for you. When you have to match up the base sequence with their pair, these are the bases that match-up.
The four different nitrogenous bases; Adenine (A), Thymine (T), Guanine (G) and Cytosine (C) are the parts that are different on different nucleotides. These bases differ in … their chemical structure: The pyrimidines, Cytosine and Thymine have one ring (with different side chains). DNA (Deoxy ribo-nucleic acid) is made up of structures known as nucleotides, there are four nucleotides from which all the DNA coding has been written, which are as follow : adenine (a purine). cytosine (a pyrimidine). gua
DNA is a long molecule made up of twisted strands of the bases A, T, C and G. Genes are sections of the DNA and each gene has the code for creating a specific protein. The sequence of bases in the gene controls which amino acids are created and joined to make a specific new protein or enzyme molecule. 
DNA is made up of 2 types of nitrogen bases, purines and pyrimidines. Purines r of 2 types...Adenine and Guanine. Pyrimidines r of 2 types...Thaimine and Cytosine.DNA is double stranded and the strands r connected to each other by weak hydrogen bonds. Adenine, Cytosine, Guanine and Thyamine are the four bases which make up (different strands of) DNA. These bases undergo a pairing between them i.e. A & T G & C. by da way there are 3 types of DNAs.
Genes are made up of DNA. Each chromosome contains many genes. A gene is the basic physical and functional unit of heredity. Genes, which are made up of DNA, act as instructions to make molecules called proteins. In humans, genes vary in size from a few hundred DNA bases to more than 2 million bases.
A nucleotide is made up of one sugar molecule, one phosphate  molecule and one of the four bases (adenine, guanine, thymine,  cytosine). Here is the structural formula for t … he four nucleotides  of DNA. DNA (Deoxy ribo-nucleic acid) is made up of structures known as nucleotides, there are four nucleotides from which all the DNA coding has been written, which are as follow : adenine (a purine). cytosine (a pyrimidine). gua
Adenine (A), cytosine (C), guanine, (G), and thymine (T) are the four bases in DNA. The order of bases is the sequence of DNA. Two bases bonded together and attached to one of the strands in the DNA double helix. Adenine always pairs with thymine, and guanine always pairs with cytosine. Adenine, Cytosine, Guanine and Thyamine are the four bases which make up (different strands of) DNA. These bases undergo a pairing between them i.e. A & T G & C. by da way there are 3 types of DNAs.