Li-ion batteries use an intercalated lithium compound as one electrode material, compared to the metallic lithium used in a non-rechargeable lithium battery. The electrolyte, which allows for ionic movement, and the two electrodes are the constituent components of a lithium-ion battery cell. The negative sign indicates the ions are flowing from high concentration to low concentration. In this equation, D is the diffusion coefficient for the lithium ion. It has a value of 7.5 × 10 −10 m 2 /s in the LiPF 6 electrolyte. The value for ε, the porosity of the electrolyte, is 0.724.
Lithium-ion, like lead-acid, does not benefit from deep discharge-you will get longer life from lithium-ion chemistry by only discharging to 25-30% and re-charging to 80-90% - storing it at full charge (100%) for a long time is also not good-which is the topic of this forum, actually. 
It comes from the Earth, of course, but it doesn't require strip mining or blowing the tops off mountains like other resources do. In fact, according to Reuters, most of the lithium on Earth is in South America, specifically in the Andes Mountains that run through Chile, Argentina and lithium market newcomer, Bolivia. There are also deposits in China and the U.S., some of which are mined traditionally from the rock. The lithium is then brought to a battery plant via plane, train, truck and boat -- none of which are using lithium-ion batteries themselves right now. Fossil fuels are hard to avoid at this point in the chain.
Research institutions are developing technology to draw lithium from seawater. China is the largest consumer of lithium, and hoarding is suspected. The Chinese believe that future cars will run on Li-ion batteries and an unbridled supply of lithium is important to them. It takes 750 tons of brine, the base of lithium, and 24 months of preparation to get one ton of lithium in Latin America. Lithium can also be recycled an unlimited number of times, and it is said that 20 tons of spent Li-ion batteries yield one ton of lithium.
Lithium-ion batteries are common in consumer electronics. They are one of the most popular types of rechargeable batteries for portable electronics, with a high energy density, small memory effect, and only a slow loss of charge when not in use. The negative sign indicates the ions are flowing from high concentration to low concentration. In this equation, D is the diffusion coefficient for the lithium ion. It has a value of 7.5 × 10 −10 m 2 /s in the LiPF 6 electrolyte. The value for ε, the porosity of the electrolyte, is 0.724.
1 The electrodes of a lithium-ion battery are made of lightweight lithium and carbon. 2  Lithium is also a highly reactive element, meaning that a lot of energy can be stored in its atomic bonds. 3  This translates into a very high energy density for lithium-ion batteries. 1 A lithium-ion battery pack loses only about 5 percent of its charge per month, compared to a 20 percent loss per month for NiMH batteries. 2  They have no memory effect, which means that you do not have to completely discharge them before recharging, as with some other battery chemistries.
All good things must come to an end, but lithium-ion batteries believe in life after death. When they're truly at the end of their usefulness, the batteries can be taken apart and their bits reused. Tesla, for example, recycles the cooling fluid, wires and electronics in its batteries. The lithium is then brought to a battery plant via plane, train, truck and boat -- none of which are using lithium-ion batteries themselves right now. Fossil fuels are hard to avoid at this point in the chain.
Lithium (from Greek: λίθος lithos, stone) is a chemical element with symbol Li and atomic number 3. It is a soft, silver-white metal belonging to the alkali metal group of chemical elements. Under standard conditions it is the lightest metal and the least dense solid element. The transmutation of lithium atoms to helium in 1932 was the first fully man-made nuclear reaction, and lithium-6 deuteride serves as a fusion fuel in staged thermonuclear weapons.
Even after years of service in an electric vehicle, lithium-ion batteries still have a lot to give. It can often still hold as much as 80 percent of its charge, so it can be pressed into service as power storage for the grid, say, in conjunction with wind farms, according to TreeHugger. The lithium is then brought to a battery plant via plane, train, truck and boat -- none of which are using lithium-ion batteries themselves right now. Fossil fuels are hard to avoid at this point in the chain.
The lithium raw material in a Li-ion battery is only a fraction of one cent per watt, or less than 1 percent of the battery cost. A $10,000 battery for a plug-in hybrid contains less than $100 worth of lithium. It takes 750 tons of brine, the base of lithium, and 24 months of preparation to get one ton of lithium in Latin America. Lithium can also be recycled an unlimited number of times, and it is said that 20 tons of spent Li-ion batteries yield one ton