West Point and the Air Force Academy also have similar summer seminar programs 4) If you are considered qualified, the Naval Academy admissions office will send you a candidate letter with further instructions to begin your official candidate package. This will be sent no earlier than mid-May of your junior year.
Admissions. The United States Naval Academy Summer Seminar is a fast-paced, six-day experience for high achievers who have completed their junior year in high school.
West Point and the Air Force Academy also have similar summer seminar programs 4) If you are considered qualified, the Naval Academy admissions office will send you a candidate letter with further instructions to begin your official candidate package.
If you think that you may be interested in pursuing an appointment to one of the nation's service academies and serving your country as an officer, you should seriously consider attending the Naval Academy's Summer Seminar.
Summer Seminar squad leaders are midshipmen who have just finished their plebe year, and now serve as mentors and leaders for the high school students. Of the 122 squad leaders, all but 10 of them attended Summer Seminar prior to attending the academy.
Admission into Summer Seminar is very competitive, with approximately 5,000 applicants vying for 1,800 openings. High school students who are selected to attend Summer Seminar will automatically be processed as applicants to the Naval Academy upon completion of the program.
A A A. By Journalist 1st Class (SW/AW) Lacy Hicks, U.S. Naval Academy Public Affairs. ANNAPOLIS, Md. (NNS) -- The United States Naval Academy is accepting applications online through March 31 for the Naval Academy Summer Seminar (NASS) Program, aimed at high school juniors across the country who will graduate in 2007.
Summer Seminar will answer all the questions you have ever had about the Naval Academy.. Tuition for the Naval Academy Summer Session is approximately $300, which pays for room and board, as well as a variety of materials.