[ 2 syll. ken-na, ke-nna ] The baby girl name Kenna is also used as a boy name, though the use for girls is far more popular. It is pronounced as K EH NNaa- †. Kenna's language of origin is Celtic and it is predominantly used in English. Kenna is a diminutive of the English Kendra. Kenna is a somewhat popular baby girl name. The name has been growing in popularity since the 1990s; prior to that, it was of only very light use.
Comments and insights on the name Kenna: | Edit. I love the name Kinna. One of my most favorite person in the world is named Kinna, I want to name one of my kids Kinna when I have kids. My name is Kenna and I've always enjoyed the fact that my name is different but not too different. It's easy to pronounce and spell (usually) and people remember you. I was named after my dad (Kenneth).
Etymology & Historical Origin-Kenna. Kenna is most commonly considered the feminine form of Kenneth, a name Scottish in origin and derived from one of two etymological sources – either the Gaelic Cinaed (cináed “meaning born of”) fire Or (coinneach “meaning handsome”). one Etymology & Historical Origin-Kenna. Kenna is most commonly considered the feminine form of Kenneth, a name Scottish in origin and derived from one of two etymological sources – either the Gaelic Cinaed (cináed “meaning born of”) fire Or (coinneach “meaning handsome”). One take your; pick’they re both great. meanings
Kenna /ken-na/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced KEN-ah. It is of American, Irish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Kenna is fire born; good-looking. Feminine of Kenneth, probably influenced by Jenna. Kreatif forms: Kayna, Kenka, Kynna. Presented below is the baby name popularity of Kenna for girls. Kenna entered the list in 2000 and reached its peak rank of #750 in the U.S. in the year 2009, and is presently at #842. (Top 1000 Birth Names Records, 2014).
More About African Name: Kenna. The name Kenna originates as a feminine form of the Ken or Kenneth, which derives from the Gaelic Cinaed or Cionaed meaning born of fire as well as Caioneach or Coinneach meaning comely or handsome. Kenna Named Personality/Celebrity.
Kenna is a very prominent first name for females (#1925 out of 4276, Top 45%) and also a very prominent surname for both adults and children (#15473 out of 150436, Top 10%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Kenna for girls. Kenna entered the list in 2000 and reached its peak rank of #750 in the U.S. in the year 2009, and is presently at #842. (Top 1000 Birth Names Records, 2014). Shown below is a comparison of the usage of Kenna and affiliated names