Auschwitz concentration camp (German: Konzentrationslager Auschwitz, also KZ Auschwitz [kɔntsɛntʁaˈtsi̯oːnsˌlaːɡɐ ˈʔaʊʃvɪts]. ) was a network of German Nazi concentration camps and extermination camps built and operated by the Third Reich in Polish areas annexed by Nazi Germany during World War II. It consisted of Auschwitz I (the original camp), Auschwitz II–Birkenau (a combination concentration/extermination camp), Auschwitz III–Monowitz (a labor camp to staff an IG Farben factory), and 45 satellite camps.
Auschwitz, which was a complex network of camps with 3 camps called Auschwitz I, Auschwitz II-Birkenau and Auschwitz III-Monowitz. Also it had 41 Subcamps. The worse satellite camps were; Trzebinia, Świętochłowice, Sosnowiec, Jaworzno, Rajsko, Buna, Siemianowice, Gliwice and Prudnik. Auschwitz II-Birkenau was the death (extermination) camp, where the vast majority of those who died at the Auschwitz complex were killed. More recent scholarship puts the estimate of deaths at between 1.1 and 1.3 million total, with upwards of 1 million dying at Auschwitz II-Birkenau
Introduction. Auschwitz, also known as Auschwitz-Birkenau, opened in 1940 and was the largest of the Nazi concentration and death camps. Located in southern Poland, Auschwitz initially served as a detention center for political prisoners
10. Dachau – Dachau was located in Germany and was the first concentration camp of the Nazi regime. This camp was also the longest operating camp in the Nazi network and was used as a prototype facility that all future camps would be designed after. It also served as a training facility for concentration camp guards. It was the only concentration camp that was not operated by the Germans. Izo is right in that it was one of the worst extermination camps that emerged, but it was actually established and operated by the Croatian governing body known as the Ustaše regime.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Auschwitz-Birkenau was the largest of Nazi Germany's concentration and extermination camps, established in Nazi German occupied Poland. Following the German invasion of Poland in September 1939, Oświęcim was annexed by Nazi Germany and renamed Auschwitz, the town's German name. The Auschwitz Concentration Camp was the largest but... The three most vicious of these camps were (in order): Treblinka (Poland), Belzec (Poland) & Auschwitz-Birkenau (Poland). These rankings are determined by the approximate average number of murders per day of camp operation
Pages 17-18. Auschwitz was regarded as the most effective concentration camp established by the Nazi regime in pursuit of the “Final Solution.” Unknown numbers of people of various nationalities perished in the camp. Auschwitz: The Camp of Death. Pages 17-18. Auschwitz was regarded as the most effective concentration camp established by the Nazi regime in pursuit of the “Final Solution.” Unknown numbers of people of various nationalities perished in the camp. Even today the name holds a cold and somber connotation.
Inmates of Ebensee concentration camp after their liberation by American troops on May 6, 1945. The Ebensee concentration camp was established by the SS to build tunnels for armaments storage near the town of Ebensee, Austria in 1943. It was part of the Mauthausen network. Together with the Mauthausen subcamp of Gusen, Ebensee is considered one of the most horrific Nazi concentration camps. Jews formed about one-third of the inmates, the percentage increasing to 40% by the end of the war, and were the worst treated, though all inmates suffered great hardships.