Job Description Of an LPN. One of the most highly respected careers in health care is the Licensed Practical Nurse. This profession appeals to individuals who like a fast-paced job with a variety of responsibilities. Being a positive presence in the lives of sick and injured patients is a rewarding experience. In addition to the standard duties of the LPN there are some that are specific to certain job settings. When dealing with ill or injured patients in a hospital, the duties often are: 1  Managing IVs. 2  Ensuring patients and their families understand release instructions. 3  Supervising CNAs (Certified Nursing Assistants).
Licensed practical nurses (LPNs) work with doctors and registered nurses to perform health care tasks, such as measuring vital signs and observing patients. To become an LPN, you need to complete a practical nursing training program and pass a licensing exam. Keep reading to find out more about what an LPN does. Schools offering Nursing degrees can also be found in these popular choices.
The LPN job consists of duties and tasks around the hospital that require competency and skill but within the level of the LPN”s training. The required training in LPN schools and programs ensure the provision of excellent nursing skills and procedures for patients in the hospital. An educational program for LPN generally takes on 12 to 18 months in an average LPN school, which is a quick way to gain a career in the nursing field.
Licensed practical and licensed vocational nurses work in nursing homes and extended care facilities, hospitals, physicians' offices, and private homes. LPNs and LVNs often wear scrubs, a type of medical clothing that usually consists of a shirt and drawstring pants. Licensed practical nurses (LPNs) and licensed vocational nurses (LVNs) provide basic nursing care. They work under the direction of registered nurses and doctors.
Career Overview. As a licensed practical nurse, also called a licensed vocational nurse (LVN), your job duties will be to provide basic care and assistance for sick, injured, disabled, and other patients in a variety of settings. To become an LPN, you need to complete a practical nursing training program and pass a licensing exam. Keep reading to find out more about what an LPN does. Schools offering Nursing degrees can also be found in these popular choices.
Clinical. LPN Certification. Licensed Practical Nurses perform a variety of tasks under the supervision of a registered nurse. They administer medicine and injections, and take vital signs. Starting your career as an LPN is a great way to become a registered nurse.
Once you get started, LPN training is a mix of classroom learning and hands-on clinical practice, or supervised patient care. The classroom work can include the following, as these subjects relate to nursing care of patients: If you go to a private college, you can find facilities built especially for nursing training. LPN training is generally taught by registered nurses who may have advanced degrees in education. If you attend a community college, you may be taking classes in regular classrooms, and then going to a nearby hospital or doctor's office to do your clinical work. Class sizes can be big, with up to 75 students.
You need to see actual patients and practice what you will be doing in your job. Clinical training will include: 1  General Medical/Surgical Nursing (adult patients with illnesses or after surgery). 2  Pediatric Nursing (care of children). 3  First Aid and Emergency Medical Technology. 4  Obstetrical Nursing (women giving birth). LPN training is generally taught by registered nurses who may have advanced degrees in education. If you attend a community college, you may be taking classes in regular classrooms, and then going to a nearby hospital or doctor's office to do your clinical work. Class sizes can be big, with up to 75 students.
Some LPN training schools will give you a test to get an idea of your basic capabilities, called a Scholastic Level Exam. Others may make you take an introductory science class, called Essential Medical Bioscience. LPN training is generally taught by registered nurses who may have advanced degrees in education. If you attend a community college, you may be taking classes in regular classrooms, and then going to a nearby hospital or doctor's office to do your clinical work. Class sizes can be big, with up to 75 students.
The abbreviation “LPN” stand for Licensed Practical Nurse. In some states, the abbreviation LVN is also used which stands for Licensed Vocational Nurse. These are health professionals that work under the supervision of the Registered Nurse (RN) and Physician. An educational program for LPN generally takes on 12 to 18 months in an average LPN school, which is a quick way to gain a career in the nursing field. LPNs are limited to certain duties in the hospital setting because their educational training isn’t as specific and comprehensive as that of the RN