When a member of congress votes as a delegate, his or her vote  reflects the overall opinion of his or her constituency. It does  not necessarily have to be the actual voter … 's opinion-he or she  is only voting on behalf of the majority. 1 person found this useful. A veto sends the bill back to Congress for another vote Signing makes it a law Ignoring makes it a law in 10 da … ys; (UNLESS, during those 10 days, Congress adjourns, then the law becomes pidgeon-holed and thus must start over from the beginning). Answered. In Government.
Members take voting very seriously — the overall average rate of participation for Members in the last few Congress has been 95% of all votes held. In 1998, sixteen Senators and nine Representatives had perfect scores, registering 100% participation. Before a major vote, Members are overwhelmed with differing opinions sent months, weeks, and sometimes even minutes prior to voting. Congressional offices receive mailbags full of letters, e-mails, faxes, and phone calls from constituents, all expressing a wide array of conflicting opinion.
When a member of congress votes as a delegate, his or her vote  reflects the overall opinion of his or her constituency. It does  not necessarily have to be the actual voter … 's opinion-he or she  is only voting on behalf of the majority. 1 person found this useful. Member's of Congress are supposed to vote the at home population's desires. Unfortunately, this has been tainted and hard to determine with the Special Interest Groups and Political Action Committees.
There are 535 members of the U.S. Congress. Congress is  bicameral -- the Senate and the House of Representatives. A veto sends the bill back to Congress for another vote Signing makes it a law Ignoring makes it a law in 10 da … ys; (UNLESS, during those 10 days, Congress adjourns, then the law becomes pidgeon-holed and thus must start over from the beginning). Answered. In Government.
A term of Congress is divided into two  sessions , one for each year; Congress has occasionally also been called into an extra, (or special) session (the Constitution requires Congress to meet at least once each year). A new session commences on January 3 (or another date, if Congress so chooses) each year. Congress has two-year terms with one session each year. There are rules and procedures, often complex, which guide how it converts ideas for legislation into laws.
Members of Congress are responsible for representing the people of their District in the United States Congress. Part of this responsibility is writing and voting on bills in the U.S. Congress. All bills must pass Congress before they can go to the President to be signed into law. The House of Representatives is one of the two chambers of the United States Congress; the other is the Senate. Each state receives representation in the House in proportion to its population but is entitled to at least one Representative. Washington currently has 9 representatives.
There are 535 members of the U.S. Congress. Congress is  bicameral -- the Senate and the House of Representatives. The  Senate has 100 voting members and the House of Repres … entatives has  435 members. Member's of Congress are supposed to vote the at home population's desires. Unfortunately, this has been tainted and hard to determine with the Special Interest Groups and Political Action Committees.
Anyone may draft a bill; however, only members of Congress can introduce legislation, and by doing so become the sponsor(s). There are four basic types of legislation: bills, joint resolutions, concurrent resolutions, and simple resolutions. After a bill has been approved by both the House and Senate in identical form, it is sent to the President. If the President approves of the legislation he/she signs it and it becomes law. Or, the President can take no action for ten days, while Congress is in session, and it automatically
How a Member Decides to Vote. One of the most important responsibilities a Member of Congress has is to vote. Members are called upon hundreds of times a year to cast a yea or nay on a wide variety of bills, motions, and amendments. Votes on floor amendments refine policy proposals reported from congressional committees. Before a major vote, Members are overwhelmed with differing opinions sent months, weeks, and sometimes even minutes prior to voting. Congressional offices receive mailbags full of letters, e-mails, faxes, and phone calls from constituents, all expressing a wide array of conflicting opinion.