Hydrochloric acid is a clear, colorless, highly pungent solution of hydrogen chloride (H Cl) in water. It is a highly corrosive, strong mineral acid with many industrial uses. Hydrochloric acid is produced in solutions up to 38% HCl (concentrated grade). Higher concentrations up to just over 40% are chemically possible, but the evaporation rate is then so high that storage and handling need extra precautions, such as pressure and low temperature.
The main constituent of gastric acid is hydrochloric acid which is produced by parietal cells (also called oxyntic cells) in the gastric glands in the stomach. Its secretion is a complex and relatively energetically expensive process. Gastric acid is produced by cells lining the stomach, which are coupled in feedback systems to increase acid production when needed. Other cells in the stomach produce bicarbonate, a base, to buffer the fluid, ensuring that it does not become too acidic.
Hydrochloric acid is also used to produce chlorine. This is, in effect, recycling as most of the hydrogen chloride has been produced as a co-product when chlorine reacts with a reactant, for example in the manufacture of chloroethene (vinyl chloride), to make PVC. Hydrogen chloride is a gas at room temperature. Solutions of hydrogen chloride in water are known as hydrochloric acid. Hydrogen chloride is widely used in the chemical industry as a reagent in the manufacture of other chemicals. Most of it is produced as a co-product of reactions involving chlorine
5.2 Oxidation of Zinc by Hydrochloric Acid. Subjects: Oxidation/reduction, gas forming reaction, acid properties, net ionic equations, exothermic reactions. Description: Observation of the oxidation of zinc metal by hydrochloric acid to form hydrogen gas and zinc chloride. 
With major production starting in the Industrial Revolution, hydrochloric acid is used in the chemical industry as a chemical reagent in the large-scale production of vinyl chloride for PVC plastic, and MDI / TDI for polyurethane. Hydrochloric acid is produced in solutions up to 38% HCl (concentrated grade). Higher concentrations up to just over 40% are chemically possible, but the evaporation rate is then so high that storage and handling need extra precautions, such as pressure and low temperature.
Gastric acid is a digestive fluid, formed in the stomach. It is composed of hydrochloric acid (HCl) .05–0.1 M (roughly 5,000–10,000 parts per million) potassium chloride (KCl) and sodium chloride (NaCl). Gastric acid is produced by cells lining the stomach, which are coupled in feedback systems to increase acid production when needed. Other cells in the stomach produce bicarbonate, a base, to buffer the fluid, ensuring that it does not become too acidic.
Hydrochloric acid (HCL) is a colorless and highly pungent solution of hydrogen chloride and water. Once commonly referred to as muriatic acid or spirit of salt, this acid is a highly corrosive chemical compound with several applications in industry. In the industry sector, hydrochloric acid is produced by dissolving hydrogen chloride in water. This process first began during the Industrial Revolution in Europe, where there was a great need to inexpensively produce soda ash on a large scale.
Confidence votes 18. hydrochloric acid is produced in the stomach, this creates an acidic environment for digestive enzymes such as protease and amylase to start breaking down your food. It is the stomach. Split and merge into it. Answer by Hemmers. 
Hydrochloric acid is formed when... hydrogen ions and chloride ions join in the parietal cell cytoplasm. hydrogen ions and chloride ions join in the parietal cell nucleus. hydrogen ions and chloride ions join in the stomach lumen. Tissues associated with the stomach produce not only digestive enzymes but also hydrochloric acid. One type of cell, the parietal cell, secretes HCl which can have a pH as low as 1.5. The HCl helps to chemically break down the food in the stomach.