The term steamboat is used to refer to smaller, insular, steam-powered boats working on lakes and rivers, particularly riverboats. As using steam became more reliable, steam power became applied to larger, ocean-going vessels. The worst of all steamboat accidents occurred at the end of the Civil War in April 1865, when the steamboat Sultana, carrying an over-capacity load of returning Union soldiers recently freed from a Confederate prison camp, blew up, causing more than 1,700 deaths.
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. A steamboat is a watercraft which uses steam for power. The steam pushes a large paddlewheel or a turbine, depending on the design of the steamboat, and this causes the boat to move. 
Steamboat Resort is a major ski area in northwestern Colorado, operated by the Steamboat Ski & Resort Corporation in Steamboat Springs. It is located on Mount Werner, a mountain in the Park Range in the Routt National Forest. The ski area first opened on January 12, 1963. Steamboat is one of the 7 resorts owned by Intrawest. Prior to Intrawest's ownership, Steamboat was owned by the American Skiing Company. Intrawest purchased the resort at the end of the 2006–07 season.
The Fitch steamboat was not a commercial success, as this travel route was adequately covered by relatively good wagon roads. The following year, a second boat made 30-mile (48 km) excursions, and in 1790, a third boat ran a series of trials on the Delaware River before patent disputes dissuaded Fitch from continuing. The worst of all steamboat accidents occurred at the end of the Civil War in April 1865, when the steamboat Sultana, carrying an over-capacity load of returning Union soldiers recently freed from a Confederate prison camp, blew up, causing more than 1,700 deaths.
A steamboat uses a steam engine similar to those on a steam locomotive. An external wood or coal fire heats water in a boiler, and the pressure of its expansion into steam is used to turn a shaft that is connected to paddlewheels, or to a propeller blade. 
Steamboat Ski Resort, located just outside of Steamboat Springs, Colorado, is a premier ski destination famous for its Champagne Powder®. The resort is situated across seven mountain peaks within the Park Range and overlooks the Yampa Valley. 
A steamboat is a boat in which the primary method of marine propulsion is steam power, typically driving propellers or paddlewheels. Steamboats sometimes use the prefix designation SS, S.S. or S/S (for 'Screw Steamer') or PS (for 'Paddle Steamer'), however these designations are most often used for Steamships. The worst of all steamboat accidents occurred at the end of the Civil War in April 1865, when the steamboat Sultana, carrying an over-capacity load of returning Union soldiers recently freed from a Confederate prison camp, blew up, causing more than 1,700 deaths.
Rating: 5 out of 5Review more recipes. Print this page | Send to a friend | Discuss. A traditional Chinese steamboat, where diners choose from an array of raw and marinated ingredients to dip into simmering stock, is a brilliant example of the art of interaction, of sharing and socialising. 
Steamboat Resort is owned by Intrawest, a Canadian resort management company. Steamboat is one of the 7 resorts owned by Intrawest. Prior to Intrawest's ownership, Steamboat was owned by the American Skiing Company. Intrawest purchased the resort at the end of the 2006–07 season.
Full Definition of STEAMBOAT. : a boat driven by steam power; specifically: a shallow-draft vessel used on inland waterways. See steamboat defined for English-language learners. See steamboat defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 