If bilirubin is not being attached to sugars (conjugated) in the liver and/or is not being adequately removed from the blood, it can mean that there is damage to your liver. Testing for bilirubin in the blood is therefore a good test of damage to your liver. Bilirubin is a yellow pigment that is in everyone’s blood and stool. If you notice a yellowing of your skin or the whites of your eyes, this is called jaundice, and it may be caused by high levels of bilirubin. Bilirubin is made in the body when old red blood cells are broken down.
unconjugated bilirubin. bilirubin that has not been conjugated in the liver. It gives an indirect reaction to the van den bergh test. A high level of it in the blood is indicative of hemolysis or a lack of bilirubin clearance by the liver. bilirubin. an orange bile pigment produced by the breakdown of heme and reduction of biliverdin; it normally circulates in plasma and is taken up by liver cells and conjugated to form bilirubin diglucuronide, the water-soluble pigment excreted in the bile.
unconjugated bilirubin. bilirubin that has not been conjugated in the liver. It gives an indirect reaction to the van den bergh test. A high level of it in the blood is indicative of hemolysis or a lack of bilirubin clearance by the liver. Called also free
Conjugated bilirubin. A water-soluble form of bilirubin formed in the liver by the chemical addition of sugar molecules to unconjugated bilirubin; when present in the blood, conjugated bilirubin can become chemically bound to albumin, forming delta-bilirubin (also known as biliprotein). 
1 Small amounts may be present in the blood. 2  Conjugated bilirubin —formed in the liver when sugars are attached (conjugated) to bilirubin. 3  It enters the bile and passes from the liver to the small intestines and is eventually eliminated in the stool. 4  Normally, no conjugated bilirubin is present in the blood. Two forms of bilirubin can be measured or estimated by laboratory tests: 1  Unconjugated bilirubin —when heme is released from hemoglobin, it is converted to unconjugated bilirubin
bilirubin. an orange bile pigment produced by the breakdown of heme and reduction of biliverdin; it normally circulates in plasma and is taken up by liver cells and conjugated to form bilirubin diglucuronide, the water-soluble pigment excreted in the bile. bilirubin that has not been conjugated in the liver. It gives an indirect reaction to the van den bergh test. A high level of it in the blood is indicative of hemolysis or a lack of bilirubin clearance by
A small amount is excreted in the urine as urobilinogen. conjugated bilirubin. bilirubin that has been conjugated, mainly to glucuronic acid, in the liver and gives a direct result to the van den bergh test. High blood levels indicate obstructive or hepatocellular origin of the jaundice. bilirubin. an orange bile pigment produced by the breakdown of heme and reduction of biliverdin; it normally circulates in plasma and is taken up by liver cells and conjugated to form bilirubin diglucuronide, the water-soluble pigment excreted in the bile.
Bilirubin that is bound to a certain protein is called unconjugated, or indirect, bilirubin. Conjugated, or direct, bilirubin travels freely through your bloodstream to your liver. Most of this bilirubin passes into the small intestine, but a very small amount passes into your kidneys and is excreted in your urine. Bilirubin is a substance made when your body breaks down old red blood cells, a normal process. Bilirubin is also part of bile, which your liver makes to help digest the food you eat. A small amount of bilirubin in your blood is normal. Healthy adults produce 250 to 350 milligrams (mg) of bilirubin each day.
A bilirubin test is used to detect an increased level in the blood. It may be used to help determine the cause of jaundice and/or help diagnose conditions such as liver disease, hemolytic anemia, and blockage of the bile ducts. Two forms of bilirubin can be measured or estimated by laboratory tests: 1  Unconjugated bilirubin —when heme is released from hemoglobin, it is converted to unconjugated bilirubin. 2  Conjugated bilirubin —formed in the liver when sugars are attached (conjugated) to
Bilirubin is a yellowish breakdown product of the heme. It is a part of the hemoglobin molecule that is in the red blood cells. It is thrown out of our body by means of bile or urine. Hence an increase in the level of bilirubin indicates the person could be suffering from certain diseases like jaundice. 