1 Golden Citrine-Citrine with a golden yellow color. 2  Lemon Quartz-Lemon Quartz is a light to dark yellow Citrine, distinguished from most Citrine by lacking orange, brown, or reddish tints. 3  More often though it is clear Quartz that is irradiated to produce an intensely colored yellow gemstone. VARIETIES. 1  Golden Citrine-Citrine with a golden yellow color. 2  Lemon Quartz-Lemon Quartz is a light to dark yellow Citrine, distinguished from most Citrine by lacking orange, brown, or reddish tints. 3  Madeira Citrine-Brownish-red to orange-red Citrine. 4  Palmeria Citrine-Citrine with a bright orange color. 5  Yellow Citrine-Citrine with a lemon yellow ...
Orthoclase is feldspar like labradorite, sunstone and oligoclase, and is a constituent part of moonstone. Orthoclase mostly occurs as yellow stones, with the brighter yellow gems being of greater value. The transparent yellow gemstones are rather rare. Beside white, rhodizite and londonite both occur as yellow stones. The yellow rocks are borate minerals, a group which includes salt. Unlike salt, the yellow gemstones are not soft and soluble, but are resistant to weathering. The yellow gems make rather expensive jewelry due to their rarity.
The tourmaline is a real miracle of colour. It not only comes in green, red, blue, yellow, colourless and black, but also as a multi-coloured or colour-changing gemstone or as a cat's eye. There are, furthermore, innumerable mixtures of colour, in all nuances and depths, and some very unusual tones too.
Pictures of Yellow Gemstones. Jewelry with yellow and golden colored gem stones come in a variety of different shades, including amber, canary, champagne, gold, lemon, mustard, ochre and saffron. Shown below are pictures of some common and uncommon yellow stones including citrine, yellow sapphire, amber and stone canyon jasper. The links below provide more information about a specific gemstone, pictures of jewelry made with the stone, or its corresponding birthstone facts. This page will show you pictures of all the yellow birthstones.
Beside blue and green, labradorite also occurs as yellow gemstones. The semi-precious yellow stones are a close cousin of andesine, which may also be yellow gems, as well as red, in which color andesine is reportedly enhanced labradorite. Beside white, rhodizite and londonite both occur as yellow stones. The yellow rocks are borate minerals, a group which includes salt. Unlike salt, the yellow gemstones are not soft and soluble, but are resistant to weathering. The yellow gems make rather expensive jewelry due to their rarity.
Variety of Yellow / Orange Colors. Jewelry with yellow and golden colored gem stones come in a variety of different shades, including amber, canary, champagne, gold, lemon, mustard, ochre and saffron. Shown below are pictures of some common and uncommon yellow stones including citrine, yellow sapphire, amber and stone canyon jasper. The links below provide more information about a specific gemstone, pictures of jewelry made with the stone, or its corresponding birthstone facts. This page will show you pictures of all the yellow birthstones.
It takes a relatively low temperature to change the color light to golden yellow, and heating to higher temperatures will give the stone a darker yellow to brownish-red color. The name Citrine is derived from the citron fruit, a yellow fruit similar to the lemon. VARIETIES. 1  Golden Citrine-Citrine with a golden yellow color. 2  Lemon Quartz-Lemon Quartz is a light to dark yellow Citrine, distinguished from most Citrine by lacking orange, brown, or reddish tints. 3  Madeira Citrine-Brownish-red to orange-red Citrine. 4  Palmeria Citrine-Citrine with a bright orange color. 5  Yellow Citrine-Citrine with a lemon yellow ...
Beside black, red, green and almost all other colors, tourmaline is also available as yellow stones, though the yellow gems are very rare. The yellow gemstones come from the species of tourmaline called dravite, as well as the more valuable elbaite. The yellow rocks are mined in Brazil and Africa. Beside white, rhodizite and londonite both occur as yellow stones. The yellow rocks are borate minerals, a group which includes salt. Unlike salt, the yellow gemstones are not soft and soluble, but are resistant to weathering. The yellow gems make rather expensive jewelry due to their rarity.
1 Lemon Quartz-Lemon Quartz is a light to dark yellow Citrine, distinguished from most Citrine by lacking orange, brown, or reddish tints. 2  More often though it is clear Quartz that is irradiated to produce an intensely colored yellow gemstone. VARIETIES. 1  Golden Citrine-Citrine with a golden yellow color. 2  Lemon Quartz-Lemon Quartz is a light to dark yellow Citrine, distinguished from most Citrine by lacking orange, brown, or reddish tints. 3  Madeira Citrine-Brownish-red to orange-red Citrine. 4  Palmeria Citrine-Citrine with a bright orange color. 5  Yellow Citrine-Citrine with a lemon yellow ...
Yellow is a bright color, and yellow stones in jewelry light up your look with the brilliant glints and touch such as only yellow gemstones can. Yellow gems give the colors beside them that desirable golden highlight, making you look even brighter and glamorous. Beside white, rhodizite and londonite both occur as yellow stones. The yellow rocks are borate minerals, a group which includes salt. Unlike salt, the yellow gemstones are not soft and soluble, but are resistant to weathering. The yellow gems make rather expensive jewelry due to their rarity.