Probiotics & Eczema. How probiotics can help to prevent and/or improve atopic eczema. By Dr Georges Mouton. Dr Georges Mouton looks into the possibilities of preventing and alleviating eczema with probiotics and prebiotics.
Oct. 10, 2008 -- New research shows that the use of probiotics to treat eczema in children is not effective and may carry a risk of bowel damage and infection. Probiotics are naturally occurring microorganisms. In most cases they are bacteria and are similar to the friendly bacteria found in the gut or skin. Lactobacillus and bifidobacterium are common probiotics that are found in many foods such as yogurt, unpasteurized milk, fermented soy and yeast, and infant formula.
Some probiotics only have 1 strain. Your gut contains trillions of bacteria, and each strain of bacteria will have varying survival rates and health benefits. Therefore, it is important to choose a supplement with strains from different groups of good bacteria to ensure optimal results for your gut and eczema.
5. Use a reputable brand of probiotics for your eczema. This is very important. Don’t cheap out on your probiotics. Buying a good quality probiotic will deliver better quality live cultures to your gut and will help your eczema much better. Here are some reputable brands that I like: 1  Jarrow Brand for Adults or for kids.
The best probiotic for your eczema should be one that is free of fillers and flow agents, such as titanium dioxide, preservatives, colorings or artificial ingredients. These fillers are often included to help make more tablets/capsules in an hour, yield higher profits, or help make the tablet look more attractive.
Probiotic supplements may help eczema. Photo Credit Thinkstock/Comstock/Getty Images. Eczema, also known as dermatitis, is a term for different types of skin swelling that causes red, swollen and itchy skin. Probiotics, also known as friendly bacteria and beneficial bacteria, live in the small intestines and vagina.
That probiotics are beneficial for preventing eczema in infants is not a new finding, but rather one that I've been reporting on since at least 2001, when researchers also found infants receiving probiotics supplements were half as likely to develop the skin condition.
The Best Probiotics For Eczema. There are over 500 different strains of bacteria in the average colon but only 30 or so comprise the bulk and dominate metabolic activity and gut health. The following are the top 3 of good bugs to promote health and decrease incidence and severity of eczema.