There was a BIG! difference between Nixon and Clinton. Nixon would have been tried for impeachment after the 1974 elections whereby Congress was overwelmingly Democrat. The House had 291 Democrats and 144 Republicans. The Senate had 61 Democrats and only 38 Republicans. The mood of the country was so against him, he would've been impeached and removed with a 99.99% certainty. Mr Ford's pardon of Nixon was still an issue a few years later when Mr Ford ran for president again.
On Friday, August 9, Nixon resigned the presidency and avoided the likely prospect of losing the impeachment vote in the full House. Essentially the entire Congress of the United States believed President Nixon was impeachable under the terms of the constitution. I tend to agree with that assessment. 
Report Abuse. Nixon was NOT impeached. Impeached means to bring an official to trial. He was told that he would be brought to trial and convicted if he did not resign, so he resigned BEFORE he would have been impeached. He was nervous about losing the election, so he bugged the other party's headquarters.
Zero. Only 2 Presidents have been impeached, Andrew Johnson and Bill Clinton; however, in both cases the Senate fell short of the necessary 2/3 needed to remove them from of … fice. Note: Richard Nixon was never impeached. He resigned before the House considered the impeachment resolution. No US president was ever removed from office via the impeachment process, Two have been impeached and none have been removed from office. At this point a  president has been impeached.. A trial is then conducted by the  Senate.    Only two Presidents in US History have been  impeached by the House of Representatives.   -- President Andrew Johnson was impeached in 1868  for violating the Tenure of Office Act.
Best Answer: Nixon was NOT impeached. Impeached means to bring an official to trial. He was told that he would be brought to trial and convicted if he did not resign, so he resigned BEFORE he would have been impeached. He was nervous about losing the election, so he bugged the other party's headquarters.
Nixon would have had no chance since the impeachment and conviction votes would have been along party lines. Clinton just barely avoided conviction with a 50-50 vote, with all all 45 Democrats voting not guilty, plus 5 liberal Rino's voting along with the Democrats. The mood of the country was so against him, he would've been impeached and removed with a 99.99% certainty. Mr Ford's pardon of Nixon was still an issue a few years later when Mr Ford ran for president again.
On August 9, Richard Nixon resigned as President before the vote of impeachment could be cast on the House floor which was to be voted on around August 24th. Had Nixon not resigned, it is believed the vote would have gone against him and a criminal trial in the Senate would have followed. Impeachment of Presidents Andrew Johnson and Bill Clinton. In 1867 the 17th U.S. President Andrew Johnson, successor to the Presidency when Abraham Lincoln was assassinated, became the first President in American History to be impeached. Over One Hundred and Thirty years later history would repeat itself
Richard Nixon 37th U.S. President About President Nixon: He served as vice president under Republican President Dwight D. Eisenhower from 1953-61. Nixon ran unsuccessfully for the presidency in 1960, losing by a very close margin to John F. Kennedy. In 1962, Nixon ran unsuccessfully for Governor of California. 