Formation. Disaccharides are formed when two monosaccharides are joined together and a molecule of water is removed. For example; milk sugar (lactose) is made from glucose and galactose whereas the sugar from sugar cane and sugar beets (sucrose) is made from glucose and fructose. 
Carbohydrates Carbohydrates (also called saccharides) are molecular compounds made from just three elements: carbon, hydrogen and oxygen. Monosaccharides (e.g. glucose) and disaccharides (e.g. sucrose) are relatively small molecules. They are often called sugars.
Like monosaccharides, disaccharides are soluble in water. Three common references are sucrose, lactose, and maltose. Disaccharide is one of the four chemical groupings of carbohydrates (monosaccharide, disaccharide, oligosaccharide, and polysaccharide). The most common types of disaccharides— sucrose, lactose, and maltose —have twelve carbon atoms, with the general formula C 12 H 22 O 11. The differences in the disaccharides are due to atomic arrangements within the molecule.
Report Abuse. Monosaccharides-a simple sugar. Examples include glucose and fructose. Disaccharides-two of the simple sugars joined together in a dehydration reaction. Polysaccharides-many simple sugars strung together in a long chain. Examples include starch and cellulose. Ribose is a sugar found in RNA, and deoxyribose is a sugar found in DNA.
Disaccharides, the simplest polysaccharides, are the products of a condensation reaction between two monosaccharides. Disaccharide is one of four groups of Carbohydrates (monosaccharide, disaccharide, polysaccharide, and oligosaccharide). Example of a disaccharide: chitobiose. 
Monosaccharides such as glucose can be linked together in condensation reactions. For example, sucrose (table sugar) is formed from one molecule of glucose and one of fructose, as shown below. Molecules composed of two monosaccharides are called disaccharides. 
The two main categories of sugars are monosaccharides and disaccharides. They are often described together with polysaccharides, and sometimes also oligosaccarides, due to the chemical relationship between these types of carbohydrates: 1  Categories of sugars 2  : Monosaccharides are simple (unit) sugars. 3  Disaccharides consist of molecules whose form is that of. Definition of sugar: A sugar is a carbohydrate that is soluble in water Sugars are usually crystalline and have a sweet taste. Chemicals that are sugars often have names ending in -ose. For example, note the suffix -ose in fructose, glucose, galactose, sucrose, lactose, and maltose.
Disaccharides are formed when two monosaccharides are joined together and a molecule of water is removed, a process known as dehydration reaction. For example; milk sugar (lactose) is made from glucose and galactose whereas the sugar from sugar cane and sugar beets (sucrose) is made from glucose and fructose. The most common types of disaccharides— sucrose, lactose, and maltose —have twelve carbon atoms, with the general formula C 12 H 22 O 11. The differences in the disaccharides are due to atomic arrangements within the molecule.
Maltose, another notable disaccharide, is made up of two glucose molecules. The two monosaccharides are bonded via a dehydration reaction (also called a condensation reaction or dehydration synthesis) that leads to the loss of a molecule of water and formation of a glycosidic bond. The most common types of disaccharides— sucrose, lactose, and maltose —have twelve carbon atoms, with the general formula C 12 H 22 O 11. The differences in the disaccharides are due to atomic arrangements within the molecule.