synaptic. pertaining to a synapse. synaptic cleft. a narrow space between the plasma membranes of the presynaptic and postsynaptic cells. synaptic junction. see synapse. synaptic vesicle. one located in the axon terminal of a presynaptic cell, containing neurotransmitter substances. 
For the general concept of brain plasticity, see neuroplasticity. In neuroscience, synaptic plasticity is the ability of synapses to strengthen or weaken over time, in response to increases or decreases in their activity. Plastic change also results from the alteration of the number of neurotransmitter receptors located on a synapse. 
1 The postsynaptic membrane is the third part of the synapse. 2  This portion of the outer membrane of the receiving neuron is functionally specialized.. 3  The structure of a synapse is clearly illustrated in Figure 5.2, which shows a special type of synapse between the endfoot of a neuron and a muscle fiber. 1 The influx of calcium during depolarization of the endfoot appears to activate a system of microtubules within the endfoot. 2  The microtubules exert mechanical force and induce the movement of vesicles toward the presynaptic membrane. 3  The vesicles then eject neurotransmitter into the synaptic cleft.
The word synapse – from the Greek synapsis (συνάπσις), meaning conjunction, in turn from συνάπτεὶν (συν (together) and ἅπτειν (to fasten)) – was introduced in 1897 by English physiologist Michael Foster at the suggestion of English classical scholar Arthur Woollgar Verrall. 1 In an electrical synapse, the presynaptic and postsynaptic cell membranes are connected by special channels called gap junctions that are capable of passing electric current, causing voltage changes in the presynaptic cell to induce voltage changes in the postsynaptic cell.
Ch.5: Synaptic Activity. Introduction. 1  Otto Loewi studied the heart of the frog, which-like our own hearts-is supplied by two different peripheral nerves. 2  One, the sympathetic nerve, excites the heart and makes it beat more rapidly; the other, the vagus, shows the heart. 1 The influx of calcium during depolarization of the endfoot appears to activate a system of microtubules within the endfoot. 2  The microtubules exert mechanical force and induce the movement of vesicles toward the presynaptic membrane. 3  The vesicles then eject neurotransmitter into the synaptic cleft.
At a synapse, the plasma membrane of the signal-passing neuron (the presynaptic neuron) comes into close apposition with the membrane of the target (postsynaptic) cell. 1 In an electrical synapse, the presynaptic and postsynaptic cell membranes are connected by special channels called gap junctions that are capable of passing electric current, causing voltage changes in the presynaptic cell to induce voltage changes in the postsynaptic cell.
In many synapses, the presynaptic part is located on an axon, but some postsynaptic sites are located on a dendrite or soma. Astrocytes also exchange information with the synaptic neurons, responding to synaptic activity and, in turn, regulating neurotransmission. 1 In an electrical synapse, the presynaptic and postsynaptic cell membranes are connected by special channels called gap junctions that are capable of passing electric current, causing voltage changes in the presynaptic cell to induce voltage changes in the postsynaptic cell.
Exocytosis. 1  The process by which vesicles inside the cell fuse with the cell membrane and release their contents into the synaptic cleft is called exocytosis. 2  The cycle of exocytosis is as follows: First a vesicle approaches the membrane, on its way to an activate site. 1 The influx of calcium during depolarization of the endfoot appears to activate a system of microtubules within the endfoot. 2  The microtubules exert mechanical force and induce the movement of vesicles toward the presynaptic membrane. 3  The vesicles then eject neurotransmitter into the synaptic cleft.
A synapse is a complex membrane junction or gap (the actual gap, also known as the synaptic cleft, is of the order of 20 nanometres, or 20 millionths of a millimetre) used to transmit signals between cells, and this transfer is therefore known as a synaptic connection. Neurons & Synapses. NEURONS & SYNAPSES The core component of the nervous system in general, and the brain in particular, is the neuron or nerve cell, the brain cells of popular language.
In the nervous system, a synapse is a structure that permits a neuron (or nerve cell) to pass an electrical or chemical signal to another neuron. 1 In an electrical synapse, the presynaptic and postsynaptic cell membranes are connected by special channels called gap junctions that are capable of passing electric current, causing voltage changes in the presynaptic cell to induce voltage changes in the postsynaptic cell.