Japan celebrate Health and Sports Day ('Taiiku no Hi)') on the second Monday in October. The aim is to promote sports and an active lifestyle to ensure a healthy mind and body. This holiday was first observed in 1966 and marked the opening day of the Tokyo Olympics in 1964. To commemorate the first ever Olympic games to take place in Asia, 10 October each year was made a national holiday.
Most communities and schools across Japan celebrate Sports Day with a sports festival which is similar to a mini Olympics. These festivals include many of the traditional track and field events, such as 4 x 100m relay, 100m sprinting, and long jump, as well as many other events. As Health and Sports Day is a day to promote sports and physical and mental health, many schools and businesses choose this day to hold their annual Field Day (運動会, Undō-kai) , or sports day.
The first Health and Sports Day was held on October 10, 1966, two years after the 1964 Summer Olympics. October was chosen for the unusually late Summer Olympics to avoid the Japanese rainy season, and Health and Sports Day continues to be one of the fairest days of the year. As Health and Sports Day is a day to promote sports and physical and mental health, many schools and businesses choose this day to hold their annual Field Day (運動会, Undō-kai) , or sports day.
In schools which use a house system a feature of the school is the competition between the houses; this is especially brought out during sporting events such as an inter-house sports day. Games that are played on school sports days can be wide and varied. They can include straightforward sprints and longer races for all age groups as well as egg and spoon races. Three legged races are run as well as sack races and parent and child races. In India, sports days are held for two to three days. These include football-like games, cricket, throwball, dodgeball, volleyball, track and field, basketball etc. These sports days are held between the various houses in a particular school. In India, many traditional games such as Kho-Kho and Kabaddi are played.
Select another year-range: April 6 is the United Nations’ (UN) International Day of Sport for Development and Peace, which recognizes the power of sport in promoting peace and erasing cultural barriers worldwide. Sport is a positive way of achieving goodwill, healthy competition and cooperation across all cultures. Both organizations have used sporting events, such as the Olympic Games, to bridge cultural understanding and improve education, health, economic and social development. On August 23, 2013, the UN proclaimed that the International Day of Sport for Development and Peace would be celebrated on April 6 each year.
Sports days, sometimes referred to as field days, are events staged by many schools and offices in which people take part in competitive sporting activities, often with the aim of winning trophies or prizes. In India, sports days are held for two to three days. These include football-like games, cricket, throwball, dodgeball, volleyball, track and field, basketball etc. These sports days are held between the various houses in a particular school. In India, many traditional games such as Kho-Kho and Kabaddi are played.
Miss Jowell herself said: 'The demise of the Sports Day has mirrored the demise of sport in school. 'Its image is stuck in the 1950s with a mental picture of reluctant participants, stood freezing. beside a track, waiting for their turn in hell to be over. 'That is not what school sport is about in the 21st century. Sport competes with TV, PlayStations and computers for the attention of young people today. 'Sports Day should be about making people feel included and enabling those children who have sporting talent to express that in vibrant and healthy competition.'. Put Sports Day back on track, schools are told. by DAVID HUGHES, Daily Mail. Every school in the country is to be encouraged to hold a Sports Day in a dramatic attempt to reverse the decline in competitive sports. Culture and Sport Secretary Tessa Jowell is to mobilise up to 1,000 co-ordinators across the country to re-establish Sports Day as a fixture of every state school calendar
Health and Sports Day (体育の日, Taiiku no hi), also known as Health-Sports Day or Sports Day, is a national holiday in Japan held annually on the second Monday in October. It commemorates the opening of the 1964 Summer Olympics held in Tokyo, and exists to promote sports and an active lifestyle. As Health and Sports Day is a day to promote sports and physical and mental health, many schools and businesses choose this day to hold their annual Field Day (運動会, Undō-kai) , or sports day.