Salary is a regularly paid amount of money, constituting all or part of an employee's wages, paid on a weekly or less frequent basis, that is not subject to reduction due to the quality or quantity of work performed. This is the general definition in federal law (29 CFR 541.118). The employee's gross wages for the week, including overtime, would be $550 (the $500 salary plus $50 in overtime pay). Wisconsin law allows this method of overtime compensation for salaried, non-exempt employees, but federal law may not.
A wage is better because you get paid for how many hours you work, while, with a salary, you get a set amount of payment. An example of a job that gets a salary is a teacher. It doesn't matter how much homework they grade over weekends and vacations, they get the same amount of money. A yearly pay is known as an annual amount or annual pay. Minimum wage as of July 15, 2009, is $7.25 per hour. Salary is paid notwithstanding the amount of hours to usually Management employees. He gets paid $10 per hour.
Salary is a fixed amount of money or compensation paid to an employee by an employer in return for work performed. A general rule for comparing periodic salaries to hourly wages is based on a standard 40 hour work week with 50 weeks per year (minus two weeks for vacation). (Example: $40,000/year periodic salary divided by 50 weeks equals $800/week.
Definition. According to the U.S. Department of Labor, when an employee is paid on a salary basis, this means essentially that she receives regular pay on a regular basis, and that this amount doesn't fluctuate in regard to the quality or quantity of work actually performed. For the employer, offering a paid salary means negotiating. Naturally, employees considering accepting a salaried position want to make sure that they're paid as much as they think they'e worth --- and although you may want to compensate them accordingly, you have your bottom line to think about.
A Wage is, as mentioned, an amount paid per hour. A salary is a fixed amount of pay per week or month (usually paid semi-monthly). A yearly pay is known as an annual amount or annual pay. Minimum wage as of July 15, 2009, is $7.25 per hour. Salary is paid notwithstanding the amount of hours to usually Management employees. He gets paid $10 per hour.
Since salary constitutes wages at straight time for all hours worked, the employer owes an additional half-time for the hours in excess of 40 in a week. An example follows: Example: A non-exempt employee is paid a salary of $500 per week, and works 50 hours in a given week. Since the agreement is just that the employee will be paid a $500 salary, that sum would cover any number of hours worked. The regular rate for this week is the salary ($500) divided by the 50 hours worked, or $10.00. The employee's gross wages for the week, including overtime, would be $550 (the $500 salary plus $50 in overtime pay). Wisconsin law allows this method of overtime compensation for salaried, non-exempt employees, but federal law may not.
Since salaried employees earn a specified annual amount, it is likely that their gross pay for each pay period is the same recurring amount. For example, if a manager's salary is $48,000 per year and salaries are paid semi-monthly, the manager's gross pay will be $2,000 for each of the 24 pay periods.
Salary is typically determined by comparing market pay rates for people performing similar work in similar industries in the same region. Salary is also determined by leveling the pay rates and salary ranges established by an individual employer. Salary is also affected by the number of people available to perform the specific job in the employer's employment locale. A general rule for comparing periodic salaries to hourly wages is based on a standard 40 hour work week with 50 weeks per year (minus two weeks for vacation). (Example: $40,000/year periodic salary divided by 50 weeks equals $800/week.
A salary is a form of periodic payment from an employer to an employee, which may be specified in an employment contract. A general rule for comparing periodic salaries to hourly wages is based on a standard 40 hour work week with 50 weeks per year (minus two weeks for vacation). (Example: $40,000/year periodic salary divided by 50 weeks equals $800/week.
Best Answer: A salary is when you are paid a set amount for your regular work schedule. Some jobs will pay you a set amount and then when you reach a certain number of hours they will pay you overtime. Other jobs require with salary that you just work until the job is done. Rating Newest Oldest. 