When you are composing a message, you can select someone from the Suggested Contacts folder. In the new message window, click To, Cc, or Bcc. In the Select Names dialog box, under Address Book, click Suggested Contacts. Click a contact, and then click To, Cc, or Bcc. Click OK, to return to the message window. The Suggested Contacts you selected are added to the To, Cc, or Bcc boxes
If yes, please follow these simple steps.................. How to add new contacts to your main contact list : To access your main contact list: How to add new contacts : To Edit your contact list : Note : 1. Edit option will not appear until you have selected a contact. 2. Edit option will not appear if you click at the contact's checkbox. 
Create a contact. In Contacts, on the Home tab, in the New group, click New Contact. Keyboard shortcut To create a contact from any folder in Outlook, press CTRL+SHIFT+C. Enter a name and any other information that you want to include for the contact. Do one of the following: 
1 Click to select View or change existing directories or address books, and then click Next. 2  If your Outlook Address Book is listed, click Cancel, and then go to the steps in the How to Mark Your Contact Folder for Use with Your Address Book section. 3  If your Outlook Address Book is not listed, click Add. 1 Select the Contacts folder, and then click the Folder tab in the Ribbon. 2  Click the Folder Properties tab in the Ribbon. 3  On the Outlook Address Book tab, click to select the Show this folder as an e-mail address book check box, type a descriptive name, and then click OK.
1. For your MAIN contact list : a. How to ADD a contact to your main contact list : b. Hoew to EDIT a contact in your main contact list : Note: Edit option does not appear until you have selected a contact. c. How to delete a contact from your main contact list : Note: Delete option at toolbar does not appear until you have selected a contact. 2. 
Add a contact using menus. 1  With Microsoft Outlook open, Click People in the strip at the bottom of the screen. 2  Under the Home tab, click New Contact in the top left-hand side of the screen. 3  Enter all of the contact's details. 4  If you need to add another contact click Save & New, otherwise click Save & Close. 
Add Contacts is an add-on for Microsoft Outlook that automatically adds e-mail addresses to the contact folder when you reply to a message and/or send a new message. When a contact is being created, this add-on for Outlook attempts to detect the name corresponding to the e-mail address automatically. So, if you have received a message from the address John Smith. You can also enable the option of category assigning to created contacts.
Add Contacts for Microsoft Outlook will let you forget entering e-mail addresses to the contact folder manually. It automatically builds your address book by adding new contacts when you reply to a message and/or send a new one, which saves a lot of typing. Add Contacts for Microsoft Outlook adds e-mail addresses to the contact folder each time you reply to a message or send a new e-mail. Free DownloadFree 30-day trial version. Free Download. 
Evercontact for Outlook automatically detects new contact details for your existing contacts or creates new contacts as well. These new contact details are of course organized into their specific data fields (telephone, name, company name etc), and are then integrated directly into your Outlook address book. To create a brand new address book without an ounce of effort, you can have Evercontact analyze your past email to detect and recover all of your missing or out-of-date contacts and automatically update them in your new