Share to: The acidity of the tomato sauce helps lasagna keep fresh for a longer time than say, macaroni salad. However, it should be refrigerated no more than two or three hours after … it has been served (counting that it will sit for 15 to 30 minutes after coming out of the oven). 
How long does lasagna last? Lasagna, although there are many variations, is most often made with tomato sauce, ground beef, lasagna noodles or pasta and ricotta cheese. The shelf life of lasagna depends on a variety of factors, such as possibly a best by date, the preparation method and how the lasagna was stored. 
1 If you're just reheating an individual piece of lasagna, you can do it in the microwave instead of in the oven. 2  Place it on a microwave-safe dish and microwave on high for 2 - 3 minutes, or until it's hot and bubbly. 3  Do not use aluminum foil in the microwave. 
Leftovers can be kept for three to four days in the refrigerator. Be sure to eat them within that time. After that, the risk of food poisoning increases. If you don't think you'll be able to eat leftovers within four days, freeze them immediately. Food poisoning — also called foodborne illness — is caused by harmful organisms, such as bacteria in contaminated food. Your goal is to minimize the time a food is in the danger zone — between 40 and 140 F (4 and 60 C) — when bacteria can quickly multiply. When you're ready to eat leftovers, reheat them on the stove, in the oven or in the microwave until the internal temperature reaches 165 F (74 C).
GRAVY & BROTH: Cooked gravy and broth will stay fresh and safe to eat for 1-2 days in your refrigerator. Freeze it into ice cube trays and you’ll have a handy burst of flavor to add to your next meal. PASTA: Cooked pasta keeps for 3-5 days in the refrigerator, although pasta in soups will swell after the first day. SALADS: Egg, tuna, ham, chicken and macaroni salads can be kept safely for 3-5 days. Un-dressed green salads and cut vegetables can be kept this long as well, and no salads freeze well – so eat it up! SEAFOOD: Seafood leftovers can be kept only 2 days in the refrigerator, and will taste better if consumed in 1 day.
Report Abuse. You can freeze some if you like. I'd transfer it to an airtight container or wrap in foil and then put it in a freezer bag. Your lasagna should keep for four or five days in the back of the fridge. If food has been left out for more than two hours, as a general rule, it should be discarded (it depends on the monitoring of the temperature...but up to 6) . When eating leftovers, the USDA advises reheating them to 325 degrees F. Reheating food to 325 degrees F or a higher temperature will eliminate bacteria.
Any cooked, refrigerated food will last 3-4 days. Bear in mind, while the lasagna may be safe to eat, the food may deterioate after a a couple of days. Consider freezing left over food. Freezing food will keep it safe and edible for several weeks. Use proper freezer bags or container
You’ve followed the recipe, enjoyed your feast, and there’s still leftover food…. DO-Freeze the remaining food. It will keep fine for a month or two, whether meat-filled or vegetarian. (Tip-you can store a ton of lasagna and serious amounts of fresh ingredients in a side by side fridge freezer). 
Leftovers should not be left in the refrigerator longer than four days. If food has been left out for more than two hours, as a general rule, it should be discarded (it depends on the monitoring of the temperature...but up to 6) . When eating leftovers, the USDA advises reheating them to 325 degrees F. Reheating food to 325 degrees F or a higher temperature will eliminate bacteria.