Charging a cigar humidifier sounds like a serious procedure, but it's actually merely a matter of filling it with water. This one of the first steps you'll need to take when preparing your new humidor for your cigar collection. Get a small dish of distilled water and propylene glycol. This mixture is the ideal solution to use to humidify your humidor. If you're staring at a big jug of distilled water and don't have the mixture, you can also just use the distilled water.
Instructions. Get a small dish of distilled water and propylene glycol. This mixture is the ideal solution to use to humidify your humidor. If you're staring at a big jug of distilled water and don't have the mixture, you can also just use the distilled water. However, do not use tap water, as the minerals will have a negative impact on your humidor. Remove the humidifier from the humidor. Slowly pour the solution through the grate and into the humidifier. Do not overfill; it should be wet, but not soaked. Alternately, place the humidifier face down, directly into the distilled water solution, and allow it to soak for about five minute
Humidifier charging is the process of filling your humidifier with distilled water or propylene glycol. The humidifier is what maintains your humidor at the 68 – 72% humidity that is needed to store high quality cigars. To charge your humidifier the below steps break it down systematically. 3. Make sure not to overfill the humidifier. You want your humidifier damp, not soaked when you do this process. 4. Dry the humidifier with a dry cloth, making sure any excess liquid from the distilled water or propylene glycol solution is removed. 5.
8. After the 24 Hours have passed, open your Humidor and recharge your humidifier. Once again, close your Humidor and let it set for 24 Hours. After the second 24 Hour period, open your Humidor and check your hygrometer, if it is still not at the desired level, close the lid and wait another 24 Hours. By this time, your Humidor should be at a safe and comfortable 65%-72% humidity. You can check this if you have a hygrometer. You may need to refill your humidification device, depending on the type you are using.
Instructions on how to charge a humidifier for your cigar humidor. Category. License. Instructions on how to charge a humidifier for your cigar humidor. 1  People & Blogs.
Generally speaking (and assuming your average room temperature is about 65 to 70 degrees) try to maintain your humidor at an average of about 68% RH. Once it goes down to about 64%, it’s usually time to recharge. If the RH goes way above 70% after recharging, then you added too much water or solution. 
Gary Korb. You’ve just bought a humidor for your cigars. Inside the box you’ll usually find a humidifier, a hygrometer, and a divider. Since I’ve received a number of emails from cigar smokers asking about how to charge a cigar humidifier, I felt it was worthy of a post. First, identify what type of humidifier it is. humidor, the humidifier may only be able to handle 50 cigars. If this is the case, you can still use it, but if it’s not doing the job you should either add a second humidifier or use some Boveda bòveda69 %. * Packs, otherwise scrap the factory unit and purchase a-crystal based model designed for your’box s. capacity
Answer: Basically you will want to recharge your humidifier once your hygrometer drops below 65% RH. The amount of time will vary depending upon your humidor and your humidifier. If you think you are recharging it too often, drop by a forum or ask the manufacturer. It could be that you need a larger humidifier. Question: My humidor does not hold as many cigars as the manufacturer claims.
1. Remove the humidifier(s) from your cigar humidor. 2. Fill your humidifier with either distilled water or a propylene glycol solution of 50/50. 3. Make sure not to overfill the humidifier. You want your humidifier damp, not soaked when you do this process. 4. Dry the humidifier with a dry cloth, making sure any excess liquid from the distilled water or propylene glycol solution is removed. 5. Replace the humidifier back into your humidor
Now that you have a new humidor, the first thing to do is not put cigars inside. First and foremost, you must season a new humidor before storing your beloved stogies. This is also true for an old humidor that hasn't been used in a while. Start by dampening a clean sponge or cloth with distilled water, then wipe down all the cedar wood inside of the humidor, including the lid and any trays. To avoid damaging the humidor, do not overly saturate the interior wood with water. Do NOT spill the water inside the humidor (and then try to spread it around).