The time to complete the program depends on whether you are in full-time or part-time training in barber school, or if you've decided to apprentice. The amount of hours required to become a barber varies by state, but the average is between 1500 and 2000 training hours. For those who decide to do apprenticeship instead of going to school, it usually takes twice as many hours. As we mentioned above, the license requirements to become a barber vary by state, but on average it takes around 1500 hours of instruction in a barber school to be permitted to sit for the exams. You will also need to be at least 16 years old, have a high school diploma or GED, and pass the appropriate licensing exam.
Education and training. A high school diploma or GED is required for some personal appearance workers in some States. In addition, most States require that barbers and cosmetologists complete a program in a State-licensed barber or cosmetology school. In order to become a pediatrician, you need to go through 11 years of training after high school: 4 years of college or university 4 years of medical school 3 years of pediatric residency For a combined total of 11-12 years of training after the completion of high school.
Extra training through a Barber school or cosmetology school is recommended. Barbering programs normally last for a 9-month period, sometimes providing an associate's degree to the student. Most states require the Barber to have a minimum of 1500 hours of study, pass the state Barber exam, pay the necessary fees and then await the results of the review board's decision.
Hairdressers, hairstylists, and cosmetologists. $10.91. The median hourly wage for barbers, hairdressers, and cosmetologists was $10.95 in May 2012. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $8.11, and the top10 percent earned more than $20.39. 
All States require barbers, cosmetologists, and other personal appearance workers to be licensed, with the exceptions of shampooers and makeup artists. To qualify for a license, most job seekers are required to graduate from a State-licensed barber or cosmetology school. In order to become a pediatrician, you need to go through 11 years of training after high school: 4 years of college or university 4 years of medical school 3 years of pediatric residency For a combined total of 11-12 years of training after the completion of high school.
License Requirements. Both cosmetologists and specialists have to adhere to state licensing requirements. Most states have age restrictions, as well as minimum education requirements. To be eligible for licensing exams, individuals must complete a set number of training hours during cosmetology school. Licensing exams can include written or practical tests, and sometimes both.
Qualifications for a license vary by State, but generally a person must have a high school diploma or GED, be at least 16 years old, and have graduated from a State-licensed barber or cosmetology school. After graduating from a State approved training program, students take a State licensing examination. In order to become a pediatrician, you need to go through 11 years of training after high school: 4 years of college or university 4 years of medical school 3 years of pediatric residency For a combined total of 11-12 years of training after the completion of high school.
(a) If on January 1 of any year the amount in the barber school tuition protection account is less than $25,000, the department shall collect a fee from each barber school during that year by applying a percentage to the school's renewal fee at a rate that will bring the balance of the account to $25,000. 