If you want to go swimming Dec-Feb is the best time for Perth. Feb can be quite hot so if you are just sightseeing Nov-Jan is good. Flying would probably be the best option then hire a car when you get here. Perth is a good base to start from and there are many places to visit.
This a good time to travel to Perth if you want to avoid the tourists. The summer months between December and February are the hottest in Perth. June, July and August are an amalgamation of mild winter and the rainy season. These months witness sunny days, occasional storms, lightening-thunder and heavy downpours.
But just when, exactly, is the best time of year to visit Perth? In order to answer this question, we combined our own personal experience as well as asked various tourism and travel authorities with extensive knowledge of Perth and its surrounds on their recommendations based on decades of knowledge and experience.
If you are considering a vacation then the best time to visit Perth is during Spring, between September and November with sunny days, pleasant evening and almost no rain. Having said that, even the Autumn months of March to May are beautiful with cooler evenings but with periodic spurts of rain.
1 The months bridging Winter and Spring labeled the best time to visit Perth. 2  Season popular for its large number of annual events. 3  Essential spots to visit in the city: Kings Park, St Mary’s Cathedral, Scitech Discovery Centre, His Majesty’s Theatre.
Perth. Perth, the capital of Western Australia, is a lively and modern city with a stunning location on the Canning and Swan rivers, with the azure blue of the Indian Ocean to the west and the imposing Darling Ranges to the east.
It is such a big state (in fact, if it was a country it would be the 10th biggest country in the world!), and it has many differing weather zones and areas. To say this is the best time to visit WA would be both misleading and irresponsible of me. However, what I can do is break it down into different areas for you.
With over 300 days of sunshine in a year, the best time to visit Perth is a no brainer! The city boasts of Mediterranean climate all year-round with the sun shining even during the short winter season.
Northbridge is Perth's cultural centre where you can spend the days at the Western Australian Museum, Art Gallery of Western Australia and the Perth Institute of Contemporary Art. The Fremantle Prison, Fremantle Museum and Maritime Museum are also great places to visit in winter.