A raw-food diet for Persians is one in which you prepare raw food for your cat such as chicken wings, frozen mice, and ground meat. Persian-cats.com says that a raw-food diet may be beneficial to your cat because it is similar to food the cat would eat if it were not domesticated. Therefore, your cat's body will more easily process raw foods. A raw-food diet will give your Persian more energy, improve breath and odor of excretory material, help your cat maintain a healthy weight, and improve dental health, according to Persian-cats.com.
The Persian cat is a long-haired breed of cat characterized by its round face and short muzzle. In Britain, it is sometimes called the Longhair or Persian Longhair. It is also known as the Shiraz or Shirazi, particularly in the Middle East, named from the Persian city of Shiraz. The first documented ancestors of the Persian were imported into Europe from Persia around 1620.
It doesn't matter if she is Persian or Heinz 57, a cat's diet is mainly protein. I feed my cats dry food that does not contain corn as a main ingredient. Usually they eat Iams. Pick one with a protein source, not grain, as the primary ingredient, until you find one your cat likes. She is very picky about her food and most food i bought her, she didn't like. Now i bought her the Advance Affinity for persian cats and she seems to like it, but i'm not sure about the quality, whether it is considered good food or not.
Persian cats have very sensitive stomachs and will vomit if their food is not quite right. Persian-cats.com suggests a raw-food diet or partially raw-food diet for optimal stomach health. A raw-food diet will give your Persian more energy, improve breath and odor of excretory material, help your cat maintain a healthy weight, and improve dental health, according to Persian-cats.com.
It is recommended that Persian cats of a month old to two months be fed milk designed specifically for kittens. Then as the kitten grows to 4 months up till it reaches 12 months you should start feeding it soft foods such as chicken and food enriched with vitamins to ensure a healthy growth of the kitten. If the cat’s diet is well supervised and the quality as well as the quantity is well regulated and your cat manages to live up to 10 years of age then it is recommended that you feed your cat a mixed diet, consisting of Royal Canin anti age and skin re-generation supplements.
A Raw diet (including muscle meat, ograns and bone) is the best food for a cat or kitten as this mimicks what a cat would eat in the wild and provides nutrients in the most na … tural way possible. If a raw diet cannot be given, however, commercial cat food can be fed. Good, high-quality wet foods have high meat content in and no grains. Grains, which are found in cheap wet foods and many dry foods, is what is most probably making your cat overweight, as its overeating to try and get the nutrients it needs from what little meat-based protein is in the food.
You should feed your pet Persian cat at about the same time every day. If possible the best thing you can do for your kitty is to make its food at home. This is the best way to know exactly what the food ingredients and quality your pet is eating. Make sure you use plenty of meat, grains and vegetables. Remember to not overcook the food so as not to destroy the nutritional value. About once a week you should wash your cat's food and water dishes. You should also empty the litter box, clean it, and refill it with clean litter. Cats prefer to have at least 2-3 inches of litter in the box. This allows them to dig in the litter before using it, and then to cover up their waste afterward.
Best Answer: Two of my favorites are Evo can and Nature's Variety. These 2 have no fillers or grain. Nature's Variety dry version is small enough whereas a persian cat will not have problems eating it. Good luck with your new baby! I love the breed and have 5 of them ranging from 5 months to 17-1/2 years old. 
A Raw diet (including muscle meat, ograns and bone) is the best food for a cat or kitten as this mimicks what a cat would eat in the wild and provides nutrients in the most natural way possible. If a raw diet cannot be given, however, commercial cat food can be fed. Good, high-quality wet foods have high meat content in and no grains. Grains, which are found in cheap wet foods and many dry foods, is what is most probably making your cat overweight, as its overeating to try and get the nutrients it needs from what little meat-based protein is in the food.
The most commonly found health problems in Persian cats include food intolerance, allergies, diabetes, digestive problems and especially obesity since Persian cats are not at all as active as compared to cats of a different breed. Hence Persian cats need a balanced and carefully weighed diet. Human food is highly likely to lead the cats to becoming obese which can then in turn lead to various health problems and then can eventually cause the death of your cat. If the cat’s diet is well supervised and the quality as well as the quantity is well regulated and your cat manages to live up to 10 years of age then it is recommended that you feed your cat a mixed diet, consisting of Royal Canin anti age and skin re-generation supplements.