The name Padma is an Indian baby name. In Indian the meaning of the name Padma is: Lotus. Hindi Meaning: The name Padma is a Hindi baby name. In Hindi the meaning of the name Padma is: Lotus flower. SoulUrge Number: 2. Expression Number: 8. People with this name have a deep inner desire for love and companionship, and want to work with others to achieve peace and harmony
Priyanka is a popular female given name in Hindu and Buddhist cultures. In its adverb form it can also mean endearing behavior, for example an act of showing kindness or happiness or excitement; or kind agree-ability. The Sanskrit word Priyankar is also used to describe the white variety of the 'Kantakari' flower (Sweta kantakari).
Priyanka is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 8 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Priy-an-ka. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 6339 in baby name popularity for girls with 20 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Priyanka Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Priyanka has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Priyanka to other names. Priyanka is a variant spelling of Priya.
Priyanka in Nautical Flags. Indian names or Hindu names are listed in Our Baby Namer under Indian, Hindi and Sanskrit. Other names which may be used my Muslim Indians would be listed under Arabic or Iranian names. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Priyanka Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Priyanka has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Priyanka to other names. Priyanka is a variant spelling of Priya.
Hindi Meaning: The name Akshay is a Hindi baby name. In Hindi the meaning of the name Akshay is: Forever. SoulUrge Number: 2. Expression Number: 2. People with this name have a deep inner desire for love and companionship, and want to work with others to achieve peace and harmony.
Priyanka may refer to: 1  Priyanka Chatterjee (born 1990), Googler and talented singer. 2  Priyanka Raina (born 1982), Bollywood director and film critic. 3  Priyanka Chopra (born 1982), Bollywood actress. In its adverb form it can also mean endearing behavior, for example an act of showing kindness or happiness or excitement; or kind agree-ability. The Sanskrit word Priyankar is also used to describe the white variety of the 'Kantakari' flower (Sweta kantakari).
Meaning of Indian name: Priyanka. Meaning of the name Priyanka is 'Beautiful act, Favourite'. Priyanka is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for females. The name number for Priyanka is '5'. Click here to get the numerological analysis for the name 'Priyanka'.
It is a name derived from the Sanskrit word 'Priyanker' or 'Priyankar' meaning, someone or something that is amiable; lovable, or makes you happy. In its adverb form it can also mean endearing behavior, for example an act of showing kindness or happiness or excitement; or kind agree-ability. The Sanskrit word Priyankar is also used to describe the white variety of the 'Kantakari' flower (Sweta kantakari).
Meaning of Indian name: Sowjanya. Meaning of the name Sowjanya is 'Freely available, Tender'. Sowjanya is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for females. The name number for Sowjanya is '9'. Click here to get the numerological analysis for the name 'Sowjanya'. 