11, 12. Toxins in the production of plastic: Toxic substances are used to make nearly all types of plastic. Some of these toxins escape from the manufacturing process and damage workers in the plastics industry, communities living near plastics manufacturing plants, and the global environment as a whole. Toxins in the disposal of plastic: When incinerated, plastics release over 90 different chemicals into the atmosphere. When plastics are thrown away as litter or escape from landfills on wind and water, they leach countless chemicals into our soils, streams, rivers, and oceans.
In a nutshell, PVC plastic is uniquely toxic among plastics because of its highly toxic ingredients which readily migrate into the environment during its production, its use, and its disposal. Pure PVC plastic is 57% chlorine, a toxic substance whose production generates substantial pollution (see below). 1 Vinyl is the least recyclable plastic because of the diversity of additives used to make different types of PVC products. 2  In addition, when PVC-products are accidentally mixed with non-chlorine plastics, they contaminate the entire recycling process.
Three plastics have been shown to leach toxic chemicals when heated, worn or put under pressure: polycarbonate, which leaches bisphenol A; polystyrene, which leaches styrene; and PVC, or polyvinyl chloride, which break down into vinyl chloride and sometimes contains phthalates that can leach. It's a building block of polycarbonate (#7 is often polycarbonate) plastic and is used in thousands of consumer products, including food packaging. BPA exposure may disrupt normal breast development in ways that predispose women for later life breast cancer.
Toxic plastics contain dangerous chemicals like bisphenol-A, phthalates and PVC. Plastic food packaging and food storage containers containing bisphenol-A, phthalates and PVC are toxic, and bad plastics to use in your kitchen. Safe plastics by numbers. These are the plastics safe to use in your kitchen. Phthalates are toxic and are found in many plastic products in our homes. Phthalates are found in many plastic products in our homes, including children’s toys and even baby shampoo. Disclaimer – it’s up to you to make your own choices regarding toxic plastics.
I have a general avoidance policy towards plastic, particularly disposable plastic. I seek less toxic alternatives to plastics whenever I can. But I make an extra special effort to avoid certain plastics, including polyvinyl chloride (PVC), also known as vinyl or the #3 plastic. The Center for Health, Environment and Justice (CHEJ) calls PVC  the most toxic plastic for children’s health and the environment .. 1 Vinyl is the least recyclable plastic because of the diversity of additives used to make different types of PVC products. 2  In addition, when PVC-products are accidentally mixed with non-chlorine plastics, they contaminate the entire recycling process.
Three of the most toxic chemicals are bisphenol-A (BPA), PVC and Phthalates. BPA, PVC and Phthalates can be found in plastic food packaging, plastic food storage containers, plastic water bottles, canned foods, toys, cooking implements and even kitchen appliances like coffee makers. Phthalates are toxic and are found in many plastic products in our homes. Phthalates are found in many plastic products in our homes, including children’s toys and even baby shampoo. Disclaimer – it’s up to you to make your own choices regarding toxic plastics.
Plastic is a material consisting of any of a wide range of synthetic or semi-synthetic organics that are malleable and can be molded into solid objects of diverse shapes. Plastics are typically organic polymers of high molecular mass, but they often contain other substances. Unplasticised polystyrene is a rigid, brittle, inexpensive plastic that has been used to make plastic model kits and similar knick-knacks. It also is the basis for some of the most popular foamed plastics, under the name styrene foam or Styrofoam.
Pure plastics have low toxicity due to their insolubility in water and because they are biochemically inert, due to a large molecular weight. Plastic products contain a variety of additives, some of which can be toxic. Unplasticised polystyrene is a rigid, brittle, inexpensive plastic that has been used to make plastic model kits and similar knick-knacks. It also is the basis for some of the most popular foamed plastics, under the name styrene foam or Styrofoam.
The problem is that when we use plastics in our kitchens, these chemicals migrate out of the plastic and into the food and drink we consume. All three chemicals are extremely dangerous to our health – and most dangerous of all to unborn babies, infants and children. Phthalates are toxic and are found in many plastic products in our homes. Phthalates are found in many plastic products in our homes, including children’s toys and even baby shampoo. Disclaimer – it’s up to you to make your own choices regarding toxic plastics.
Vinyl Chloride. Vinyl chloride is formed in the manufacture of polyvinyl chloride (PVC) or #3 plastic. It was one of the first chemicals designated as a known human carcinogen by the National Toxicology Program (NTP) and the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC). It's a building block of polycarbonate (#7 is often polycarbonate) plastic and is used in thousands of consumer products, including food packaging. BPA exposure may disrupt normal breast development in ways that predispose women for later life breast cancer.