Your fertility is highest during the two days before ovulation and the day it occurs, but your basal body temperature changes 12 to 24 hours after ovulation. Since the egg only lives one day, by the time BBT indicates ovulation there’s little fertile time left to conceive. Because the spike in body temperature at ovulation is so small, you need a special basal thermometer (available at drugstores for about $10 to $15) to measure it. A basal thermometer records temperatures in one-tenth of a degree increments instead of the two-tenth increments on fever thermometers.
Before ovulation, during your follicular phase, basal temperatures are relatively low. After ovulation, your basal body temperature rises sufficiently that you can see the difference between your pre-ovulation and post-ovulation temperatures when they are plotted on a graph. Understand the role of BBT in fertility charting. Learn how to use BBT to detect ovulation. Basal Body Temperature (BBT) is your body temperature at rest (wake up time). BBT rises after ovulation due to increased progesterone released from the corpus luteum after
They are the most accurate method of predicting ovulation that you can use at home (Eichner and Timpe 2004) . A cheaper way to get in tune with your ovulation cycle is to chart your basal body temperature (BBT) and monitor your cervical mucus. Basal body temperature (BBT) is your temperature when you first wake up in the morning, or after at least three hours of uninterrupted sleep. To record your BBT, you need to use a basal thermometer. This has a finer scale than a normal thermometer and lets you record tiny changes in your body temperature. To use a basal thermometer, you need to take your temperature before you get out of bed. Try to take your temperature at the same time each morning, and before you have anything to eat or drink (FPA 2010) .
Your basal body temperature (BBT) is your lowest body temperature in a 24-hour period. To get an accurate reading, you must take your temperature when you first wake up in the morning, before you even sit up in bed. 
BBT-or Basal Body Temperature Charting-allows you to predict ovulation based on charting changes in your body temperature throughout your menstrual cycle using a special thermometer called a basal thermometer. How to take your Basal Body Temperature. Your Basal Body Temperature can be taken orally with a special BBT thermometer. Ideally, a larger thermometer that registers from 96 to 100 degrees (in easy-to-read one-tenth degree increments) is recommended.
Before ovulation, a woman's basal body temperature is usually about 97.0 to 97.5 degrees Fahrenheit, although those numbers can vary from person to person. During ovulation, your body releases the hormone progesterone, which results in a slightly raised temperature a day or two after ovulation -- usually by 0.5 degrees. 
This will increase your chances of becoming pregnant. Since your body temperature rises after you release an egg (ovulation), if you chart your temperature, it can tell you when you’re most fertile. A basal body temperature (BBT) chart is a record of your temperature from day to day. To complete a BBT chart, you will take your temperature every morning at the same time using a special thermometer. Then you will mark your temperature in your chart. 
Low temperatures are observed before ovulation and higher temperatures are recorded after ovulation. Your BBT, or basal body temperature, is your body temperature at rest as measured in the morning after at least three hours of sleep, before you get up, with a special BBT thermometer that you can buy at your drugstore. Understand the role of BBT in fertility charting. Learn how to use BBT to detect ovulation. Basal Body Temperature (BBT) is your body temperature at rest (wake up time). BBT rises after ovulation due to increased progesterone released from the corpus luteum
What to look for on your BBT chart. During the first part of a woman's menstrual cycle basal body temperatures will be lower. The first half of your menstrual cycle is called the follicular phase. Right before ovulation you will have a slight drop in temperature followed by a sharp rise in temperature.
The BBT method requires charting your basal-think 'base' - body temperature when you're completely at rest. For most women, 96 to 98 degrees is considered normal prior to ovulation and 97 to 99 degrees after ovulation. How to take your Basal Body Temperature. Your Basal Body Temperature can be taken orally with a special BBT thermometer. Ideally, a larger thermometer that registers from 96 to 100 degrees (in easy-to-read one-tenth degree increments) is recommended.