Following Reed's return from Cuba in 1901, he continued to speak and publish on yellow fever. He received honorary degrees from Harvard and the University of Michigan in recognition of his seminal work. Philip Showalter Hench, a Nobel Prize winner for Physiology or Medicine in 1950, maintained a long interest in Walter Reed and yellow fever. His collection of thousands of items--documents, photographs, and artifacts--is at the University of Virginia in the Philip S. Hench Walter Reed Yellow Fever Collection.
The disease is caused by the yellow fever virus and is spread by the bite of the female mosquito. It infects only humans, other primates, and several species of mosquitoes. In cities, it is spread primarily by mosquitoes of the Aedes aegypti species. In areas where yellow fever is common and vaccination is uncommon, early diagnosis of cases and immunization of large parts of the population is important to prevent outbreaks.
Epidemiology of Yellow Fever and Malaria. By 1904, medical researchers had established that yellow fever and malaria were mosquito-borne diseases. In Cuba, the Walter Reed Commission confirmed Carlos Finlay’s hypothesis and proved that the mosquito of the genus Aedes transmits yellow fever. 
A few years earlier, he had read about discoveries linking mosquitoes with malaria while living in Havana, Cuba. Acting on the possibility that the insects could also be the primary transmitters of yellow fever, he successfully eradicated the mosquitoes -- and thus the disease -- from the area in 1901. Yellow fever's gruesome symptoms and high death rate were so horrifying to American canal workers that even a whisper of an outbreak sent boatloads of men fleeing. Early symptoms of yellow fever were headaches, fever, and muscle pain.
No one knew what caused the often-deadly yellow fever, but it occurred in epidemic proportions, with one person after another in a given area becoming sick. People feared the mysterious disease, until U.S. Army physician James Carroll endangered his own health in the name of science. 
At the time, doctors disagreed on how to stop either yellow fever or malaria; mosquitoes had not yet been accepted as the primary transmitters. Hospitals treated patients with high doses of whiskey, eggnog, or by rubbing a solution of kerosene and oil on the skin. There were mustard baths and ice baths. Yellow fever's gruesome symptoms and high death rate were so horrifying to American canal workers that even a whisper of an outbreak sent boatloads of men fleeing. Early symptoms of yellow fever were headaches, fever, and muscle pain.
Reed traveled to Cuba to study diseases in U.S. Army encampments there. He was appointed chairman of a panel formed in 1898 to investigate an epidemic of typhoid fever in large U.S. Army camps in Cuba fighting the Spanish–American War. Philip Showalter Hench, a Nobel Prize winner for Physiology or Medicine in 1950, maintained a long interest in Walter Reed and yellow fever. His collection of thousands of items--documents, photographs, and artifacts--is at the University of Virginia in the Philip S. Hench Walter Reed Yellow Fever Collection.
Since the losses from yellow fever in the Spanish–American War in the 1890s were extremely high, Army doctors began research experiments with a team led by Walter Reed, composed of doctors James Carroll, Aristides Agramonte, and Jesse William Lazear. They successfully proved Finlay's ″mosquito hypothesis″. In areas where yellow fever is common and vaccination is uncommon, early diagnosis of cases and immunization of large parts of the population is important to prevent outbreaks.
Yellow fever, known historically as yellow jack, yellow plague, or bronze john, is an acute viral disease. In most cases, symptoms include fever, chills, loss of appetite, nausea, muscle pains particularly in the back, and headaches. Symptoms typically improve within five days. In areas where yellow fever is common and vaccination is uncommon, early diagnosis of cases and immunization of large parts of the population is important to prevent outbreaks.
At the start of the twentieth century, the United States Army had a Yellow Fever Commission. The Army wanted medical experts to study yellow fever and find a way to stop the disease. One team went to Cuba to test the idea that mosquitoes spread yellow fever. The team was led by Walter Reed, the Army doctor and scientist noted for his work on infectious diseases. She was a nurse who worked with yellow fever patients in Cuba. Clara Maass was bitten by infected mosquitoes seven times between March and August of 1901. Only one of the nineteen people developed the disease -- until that August. Then seven people got