When Not To Use. You should not use this medicine if you have had an allergic reaction to nitrofurantoin or if you are in your last few weeks of pregnancy (week 38 or later). You should not use this medicine if you have severe kidney disease, a decreased amount of urine, or are unable to urinate. 
A long-acting medication, Macrobid is an antibiotic used for the treatment of urinary tract infections. 
Macrobid oral may also be used to treat: Bladder Infection caused by Enterobacter, Infection of the Urinary Tract caused by Enterococcus, Urinary Tract Infection caused by Klebsiella Bacteria, Urinary Tract Infection caused by Staphylococcus Aureus, Urinary Tract Infection Prevention. 
nitrofurantoin. [nī′trōfyoo͡ran′tō·in, -fyo̅o̅′rəntō′in]. a urinary antibacterial. indications It is prescribed in the treatment of urinary tract infections caused by some gram-negative bacteria and a few gram-positive bacteria. Some of the more common bacteria that cause urinary tract infections are resistant to it.
Nitrofurantoin, sold under the trade name Macrobid among others, is an antibiotic used to treat bladder infections. It is not effective for kidney infections. It is taken by mouth. Common side effects include nausea, loss of appetite, diarrhea, and headaches. 
6 Reviews. 6 Reviews. Macrobid is the brand name for nitrofurantoin, an antibiotic used to treat or prevent urinary tract infections. Macrobid works by killing the bacteria that cause the infection or by preventing the bacteria from growing. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved Macrobid, made by Proctor and Gamble Pharmaceuticals, in 1992
Rated Macrobid for Urinary Tract Infection Report. was taking 100MG 2X a day for 5 days for UTI. Symptoms did subside in 48hrs, but I woke on the 3rd day with severe vertigo lasting approx 32 hrs. Tips for Good Reviews. 1  Only rate drugs or treatments you've tried. 2  In your description, mention the brand, dose, and period of time that you used the drug or treatment. 3  Please share your positive and negative experiences with the drug, and compare it with other treatments you have used.
How to use Macrobid. Take this medication by mouth with food, usually twice daily in the morning and evening or as directed by your doctor. Swallow the medication whole for best results. Do not use magnesium trisilicate-containing antacids while taking this medication. 