Phlebotomy training will take from three weeks to six months. Depending on the program you choose, you could have to spend three weeks to six months for phlebotomy training. Phlebotomists are faced with a lot of responsibilities as soon as they start. This is the reason why it is impossible to become a phlebotomist without the necessary training which prepares students to deal with all sorts of situations, whether easy or extremely difficult.
Complete post-secondary phlebotomy technician training. Coursework typically includes classroom instruction, laboratory training and clinical experience. Subjects covered include first aid, CPR, phlebotomy techniques, medical terminology and anatomy. Safety, blood handling procedures and communications skills are also taught. In addition to classroom studies, candidates must perform a minimum number of successful skin puncture and venipuncture procedures.
The American Red Cross offers a certificate in phlebotomy, which is drawing blood for testing. The training involves more than the ability to find a vein with a needle; you also must know the proper procedures for taking multiple vials of blood at once, how to store them and how to label them. 
In order to pass the certification exam, you will need to follow a phlebotomy training, to acquire the theoretical and practical knowledge at a satisfactory level. The information is pretty much the same, irrespective of the certification organization you choose. One of the best and most frequently asked questions regarding phlebotomy is how you can go about becoming a certified phlebotomist. To answer this, it is critical to start by looking into the specific requirements in your state.
Phlebotomy Training Programs and Requirements. Phlebotomist training programs prepare students to collect blood samples for medical use using venipuncture and micro-techniques. Accredited training programs are available to get students ready to work in this field. Essential Information. Phlebotomists usually complete a training program accredited by the National Accrediting Agency for Clinical Laboratory Sciences (NAACLS). Programs normally lead to a certificate of completion.
As a summary, let’s briefly calculate how long it will take you to start a phlebotomist from scratch: 1  Preparation and application to schools: 1 month. 2  Phlebotomy training itself: 1-2 semesters, or 4 to 8 months, depending on college. Step-by-step guide. First of all, let’s define who are phlebotomy technicians. Phlebotomists are people who draw blood from patients. They can work either in federal or state hospitals, private practices or laboratories.
Phlebotomists are specially trained to gather blood samples and provide the testing and reporting required of these samples. Phlebotomy training is the learning period that medical professionals undergo in order to be qualified to work as a phlebotomist. Students in phlebotomy training will learn a number of subjects. In addition to teaching students how to properly and accurate collect blood, topics will also include the proper laboratory procedures required to process the blood and to avoid contamination of the blood as well as the student working with it.
Step 3: Certification. Once you have completed a phlebotomy training program, you may want to become certified as well. Even though it’s not theoretically required to start practicing phlebotomy, on practice the vast majority of employers still want you to have it before starting to work. Step-by-step guide. First of all, let’s define who are phlebotomy technicians. Phlebotomists are people who draw blood from patients. They can work either in federal or state hospitals, private practices or laboratories.
Phlebotomy Training Video-How to Perform Venepuncture. Information about phlebotomy training, programs, schools, certification and salary! Phlebotomy involves drawing blood from patients for use in testing as well as transfusions or storage of blood for future use. Students in phlebotomy training will learn a number of subjects. In addition to teaching students how to properly and accurate collect blood, topics will also include the proper laboratory procedures required to process the blood and to avoid contamination of the blood as well as the student working with it.
Phlebotomists are medical laboratory technicians who specialize in drawing blood and handling blood samples. Candidates can qualify for a career as a phlebotomist by completing a phlebotomy technician training course from a local community college or technical institute. Some high schools offer phlebotomy training as part of their vocational education program. Subjects covered include first aid, CPR, phlebotomy techniques, medical terminology and anatomy. Safety, blood handling procedures and communications skills are also taught. In addition to classroom studies, candidates must perform a minimum number of successful skin puncture and venipuncture procedures.