The United Nations estimates that there are over 370 million indigenous people living in over 70 countries worldwide. This would equate to just fewer than 6% of the total world population. This includes at least 5000 distinct peoples in over 72 countries. The Amerindians make up 0.4% of all Brazilian population, or about 700,000 people. Indigenous peoples are found in the entire territory of Brazil, although the majority of them live in Indian reservations in the North and Center-Western part of the country.
Before the invasion, Aboriginal people lived throughout Australia, although the highest population density was along the coast. Here, people seem to have moved seasonally between permanent settlements near the sea and others at the headwaters of the coast rivers. 
Australian Aboriginals actually live all around Australia. The mostly live in Western Australia in Perth because it is very sunny there. They live in deserts because the are used to the sun. The are a lot of aboriginals also in Queensland. Some live in the Northern Territory and South Australia. There are still some Aborigines living on their original tribal lands in parts of central Australia, but they do not live in the traditional way. The elders try to maintain some traditions, but even in these remote areas, the people also drive cars and have some mod cons.
About one-quarter of the Aboriginal population knows an Aboriginal language well enough to carry on a conversation. This fraction seems to be declining. About half of Aboriginal people live in urban areas, and 21% live on a reserve. However, about half of all Status Indians live on a reserve. The reserve lands form only about 0.2% of Canada's land area. Many reserve lands are of poor quality and are too small and remote to allow for meaningful development. 
Recent findings indicate that Indigenous Australians are probably descendants of the first modern humans to migrate out of Africa to Asia, roughly 70,000 years ago, arriving in Australia around 50,000 years ago. The Indigenous population of Australia is much younger than the non-Indigenous population, with an estimated median age of 21 years (37 years for non-Indigenous), due to higher rates of birth and death. For this reason, age standardisation is often used when comparing Indigenous and non-Indigenous statistics.
Brazilian Indians. There are about 240 tribes living in Brazil today, totaling around 900,000 people, or 0.4% of Brazil’s population. The government has recognized 690 territories for its indigenous population, covering about 13% of Brazil’s land mass. Nearly all of this reserved land (98.5%) lies in the Amazon. 
Torres Strait Islander peoples. Over half (58%) of all Torres Strait Islander peoples live in Queensland. The rest of the population live in other States, with 18% in New South Wales and 6% in Victoria. Cairns had the highest Torres Strait Islander population in Queensland (1,814 people), followed by Townsville (1,379). 
The population of Indigenous Australians at the time of permanent European settlement has been estimated at between 318,000 and 1,000,000 with the distribution being similar to that of the current Australian population, with the majority living in the south-east, centred along the Murray River. The Indigenous population of Australia is much younger than the non-Indigenous population, with an estimated median age of 21 years (37 years for non-Indigenous), due to higher rates of birth and death. For this reason, age standardisation is often used when comparing Indigenous and non-Indigenous statistics.
Most Aboriginals in the Northern Territory of Australia do not work. They receive government assistance, sufficient to live on. A western style work ethic is absent among Abor … iginals of the Northern Territory, and most have not assimilated into Australian culture. There are still some Aborigines living on their original tribal lands in parts of central Australia, but they do not live in the traditional way. The elders try to maintain some traditions, but even in these remote areas, the people also drive cars and have some mod cons.
Australian cinema has a long history and the ceremonies of Indigenous Australians were among the first subjects to be filmed in Australia – notably a film of Aboriginal dancers in Central Australia, shot by the anthropologist Baldwin Spencer in 1900. The Indigenous population of Australia is much younger than the non-Indigenous population, with an estimated median age of 21 years (37 years for non-Indigenous), due to higher rates of birth and death. For this reason, age standardisation is often used when comparing Indigenous and non-Indigenous statistics.