Spice imports from Mexico and India have been found to have the highest rate of contamination. Nearly one-quarter of the spices, oils and food colorings used in the United States comes from India, according to the F.D.A. 
Turmeric is an Indian spice, bright yellow in color and is used in both south and north Indian cooking. It is derived from a plant native of India that is part of the ginger family. It is made from the boiled, dried, cleaned and polished roots of the turmeric plant. In medieval Europe it became known as Indian saffron and was far more expensive in its day than the saffron spice of today.
Mexican spices showed 14 percent levels of salmonella, while Indian spices were contaminated in 9 percent of cases. But while the percentage of salmonella cases from India is a bit lower than that of Mexico, the U.S. imports one-fourth of its spices and oils from India. 
Popular Indian Spices | Certified Organic Indian Spice. Indian cuisine is known for its bold and complex flavors. To create these flavors, traditional Indian cooks use a variety of spices from India. Pure Indian Foods stocks all of the Indian spices you may need, all certified USDA organic with no chemical additives. 
A curry dish may be spiced with leaves from the curry tree, but many curries do not have this ingredient. In original traditional cuisines, the precise selection of spices for each dish is a matter of national or regional cultural tradition, religious practice, and, to some extent, family preference. Curry (/ˈkʌri/ , plural curries) is a dish originating in the cuisine of the Indian Subcontinent and Southeast Asia. The common feature is the incorporation of complex combinations of spices or herbs, usually including fresh or dried hot chillies.
With different climates in different parts of the country, India produces a variety of spices, many of which are native to the Subcontinent, while others were imported from similar climates and have since been cultivated locally for centuries. Spices are used in different forms-whole, chopped, ground, roasted, sauteed, fried and as topping. They blend food to extract the nutrients and bind them in a palatable form. Some spices are added at the end as a flavouring and are typically heated in a pan with ghee or cooking oil before being added to a dish. Lighter spices are added last, and spices with strong flavour should be added first. Curry is not a spice, but a term used by western people and refers to any dish in Indian cuisine that contains several spices blended together and could be with a gravy base or a dry item
And now we are a nation with so much spice that actually when Indians go back to India for holidays, we take spices back with us.. But curry's origins may go even further back. Scientists believe they may have found evidence of a 4,000-year-old proto-curry in India's ancient Indus Valley civilisation. 
Spices and herbs at a grocery shop in Goa, India. A spice is a seed, fruit, root, bark, berry, bud or vegetable substance primarily used for flavoring, coloring or preserving food. Spices are distinguished from herbs, which are parts of leafy green plants used for flavoring or as a garnish. Small seeds, such as fennel and mustard seeds, are often used both whole and in powder form. The flavor of a spice is derived in part from compounds (volatile oils) that oxidize or evaporate when exposed to air. Grinding a spice greatly increases its surface area and so increases the rates of oxidation and evaporation.
Arab spice traders once controlled nearly all movement of spices between Asia (including the famous Spice Islands), India, Africa, and Europe, so almost every spice in existence has found a place in Middle Eastern cuisine. Middle Eastern cooking traditionally uses a vast array of spices, from staples like cumin, coriander, turmeric and mint to exotic blends like Ras el Hanout and Za'atar.