Magnesium malate supplements also help in the contraction of muscles. Muscle contraction is very important in everyday living, but for athletes, fitness buffs, and active individuals, building muscle mass is essential. Magnesium malate supplements aid the metabolic functions in your body in producing energy. This can be extremely beneficial for individuals suffering from Chronic Fatigue Syndrome. Extra energy can also help athletes, body builders, and anyone who feels like they could use an energy boost.
An easy way to remember foods that are good magnesium sources is to think fiber. Foods that are high in fiber are generally high in magnesium. Dietary sources of magnesium include legumes, whole grains, vegetables (especially broccoli, squash, and green leafy vegetables), seeds, and nuts (especially almonds). Doses less than 350 mg per day are safe for most adults. When taken in very large amounts, magnesium is POSSIBLY UNSAFE. Large doses might cause too much magnesium to build up in the body, causing serious side effects including an irregular heartbeat, low blood pressure, confusion, slowed breathing, coma, and death.
Magnesium, an abundant mineral in the body, is naturally present in many foods, added to other food products, available as a dietary supplement, and present in some medicines (such as antacids and laxatives). 
Magnesium is a mineral that is present in relatively large amounts in the body. Researchers estimate that the average person’s body contains about 25 grams of magnesium, and about half of that is in the bones. Magnesium is important in more than 300 chemical reactions that keep the body working properly. Doses less than 350 mg per day are safe for most adults. When taken in very large amounts, magnesium is POSSIBLY UNSAFE. Large doses might cause too much magnesium to build up in the body, causing serious side effects including an irregular heartbeat, low blood pressure, confusion, slowed breathing, coma, and death.
Magnesium is vital for cell formation, and helps to form adenosine triphosphate (ATP), the body's energy source. Malic acid is a natural fruit acid that is present in most cells in the body and is an important component of numerous enzymes key to ATP synthesis and energy production. Magnesium Malate is one of the few substances that can chelate aluminum from tissues of the body. Magnesium Malate is an excellent form of magnesium for supplementation. Magnesium deficiency (which is common) has been associated with a variety of affective disorders such as anxiety, bipolar disorder, and major depressive disorder. Best wishes and good luck. Doctor J · 7 years ago.
Malic acid is a natural fruit acid that is present in most cells in the body and is an intermediate in the Krebs cycle, where energy is captured during the metabolism of carbs and fats. Magnesium is an essential cofactor for over 300 enzymatic reactions in metabolism, ATP synthesis and energy production. Magnesium plays important roles in muscle relaxation, because of its function as a cofactor for enzymes and because of its ability to counterbalance calcium in the cell. *. 
Magnesium malate is a dietary supplement that often comes in tablet or capsule form. This pill contains both magnesium and malic acid, two supplements that can help the body produce and store energy in the cells. Hypoxia could also play a role. Therefore, magnesium malate is often recommended as a supplement to help relieve symptoms of both conditions. It is important for people to remember that magnesium malate is a dietary supplement and not a proven treatment. Both magnesium and malic acid can have benefits, however, so following the recommended dosage should be safe for most people
We hear quite a bit about calcium and iron, but magnesium is also a very important mineral in the body. Most commonly identified as an electrolyte and touted for its role in maintaining mineral balance, magnesium works hand-in-hand with calcium. 