Currency Exchange in Vancouver While there are plenty of banks in the Vancouver area to help you with your currency exchange, it’s always best to go to an agency that specializes in foreign currency. About Vancouver. Vancouver is a coastal city in British Columba, Canada. The city has over 2.4 million residents and is the third highest populated city in Canada. It is the fourth densest populated city in North America, behind only New York City, San Francisco and Mexico City.
It’s a well known fact that Vancouver is one of the most expensive cities in North America in many respects – property prices, dining, hotels and more, and although you’re not likely to be buying any property coming here as a visitor, you should be aware that generally things are going to cost you more. In Vancouver you’re liable for both the federal goods and services tax (GST) and for the BC provincial sales tax (PST). The good news is that the GST has been reduced a little over the past few years and is now 5%; PST meanwhile is 7%.
It is advisable to exchange some cash before arriving in Vancouver. Visit the other Vancouver city guide sections to get more detailed travel advice, and information on the best Vancouver attractions and sightseeing activities, recommended shops and restaurants, as well as the best Vancouver hotels. 900 West Georgia Street Vancouver British Columbia V6C 2W6 Canada. Located in the heart of Vancouver, The Fairmont Hotel Vancouver is in the center of the downtown business, shopping and entertainment districts and only five blocks away from the Vancouver Convention & Exhibition Center.
Money in Vancouver. It’s a well known fact that Vancouver is one of the most expensive cities in North America in many respects… Read more ». In Vancouver you’re liable for both the federal goods and services tax (GST) and for the BC provincial sales tax (PST). The good news is that the GST has been reduced a little over the past few years and is now 5%; PST meanwhile is 7%.
Currency Exchange in Vancouver. While there are plenty of banks in the Vancouver area to help you with your currency exchange, it’s always best to go to an agency that specializes in foreign currency. Knightsbridge Foreign Exchange can guarantee the best exchange rate—much better than the ones the banks can guarantee. About Vancouver. Vancouver is a coastal city in British Columba, Canada. The city has over 2.4 million residents and is the third highest populated city in Canada. It is the fourth densest populated city in North America, behind only New York City, San Francisco and Mexico City.
Currency. The currency used in Vancouver, and indeed the rest of Canada, is the Canadian Dollar. There are 100 cents in a dollar, and currency comes in the following denominations: 1  Coins – 1 cent, 5 cents (nickel), 10 cents (dime), 25 cents (quarter), one dollar (loonie) and two dollars (toonie). In Vancouver you’re liable for both the federal goods and services tax (GST) and for the BC provincial sales tax (PST). The good news is that the GST has been reduced a little over the past few years and is now 5%; PST meanwhile is 7%.
Money Matters: 2012 Note: 2012 brings big changes in Canadian currency, both bills & coins. Canada is in the process of issuing new polymer (plastic) bills. The 50's & 100's have been in circulation since early 2012, and the 20's will be released in November 2012, with the others to follow. Since it will take a couple of years for the old bills to go out of circulation, I have left information on them below. The Canadian Dollar is available in $5, $10, $20, $50, $100. ($1 and $2 bills have been replaced by coins) The notes are coloured and are difficult to counterfeit. (I have never understood the reluctance in the US to move towards different coloured bills.
MoneyWay is the most favorable go-to Currency Exchange House in Vancouver. Our personal staff is always available to serve you. Our service, availability, great exchange rates and quick delivery makes us the leading exchange house in Vancouver. 