1 Why the test is used: Between 75% and 90% of people with lupus have a positive anti-dsDNA test. 2  Also, the test is very specific for lupus. 3  Therefore, a positive test can be useful in confirming a diagnosis. 4  For many people, the titer, or level, of the antibodies rises as the disease becomes more active.
This process damages and can destroy the cells. While the antinuclear antibody is not a specific test for lupus, it is sensitive and does detect the antibodies that are present in 97 percent of people with the disease. The ANA can be positive in people with other illnesses or positive in people with no illness.
The anti-double-stranded DNA antibody (anti-dsDNA) is a specific type of ANA antibody found in about 30% of people with systemic lupus. Less than 1% of healthy individuals have this antibody, making it helpful in confirming a diagnosis of
Anti-dsDNA. 1  What it is: Anti-dsDNA is a protein directed against double-stranded DNA. 2  Why the test is used: Between 75% and 90% of people with lupus have a positive anti-dsDNA test. 3  Limitations of the test: Up to 25% of people with lupus have a negative test.
1 What it is: Anti-dsDNA is a protein directed against double-stranded DNA. 2  DNA is the material that makes up the body's genetic code. 3  Why the test is used: Between 75% and 90% of people with lupus have a positive anti-dsDNA test. 4  Also, the test is very specific for lupus.
Anti-dsDNA. 1  What it is: Anti-dsDNA is a protein directed against double-stranded DNA. 2  DNA is the material that makes up the body's genetic code. 3  Why the test is used: Between 75% and 90% of people with lupus have a positive anti-dsDNA test. 4  Also, the test is very specific for lupus.
Anti-Nuclear Antibody (ANA) Test. Anti-nuclear antibodies (ANA) are autoantibodies to the nuclei of your cells. 98% of all people with systemic lupus have a positive ANA test, making it the most sensitive diagnostic test for confirming diagnosis of the disease.
1 This test is very specific for lupus, and can be used to determine a lupus diagnosis. 2  One in every two people with lupus has a positive anti-dsDNA test. 3  The presence of this anti-dsDNA can indicate a higher risk of lupus nephritis, kidney inflammation that can occur with lupus.