1 These pumps use compressed air as their power supply. 2  They also include two chambers with a diaphragm, inlet check valve and outlet check valve in each chamber. 3  The air supply is shifted from one chamber to another with an air spool valve that is built into the pump.
When the volume of a chamber of either type of pump is increased (the diaphragm moving up), the pressure decreases, and fluid is drawn into the chamber. When the chamber pressure later increases from decreased volume (the diaphragm moving down), the fluid previously drawn in is forced out.
The sodium-potassium pump functions to pump. sodium ions out of the cell and potassium ions into the cell. sodium ions into the cell and potassium ions out of the cell.
diaphragm pump. (mechanical engineering). A metering pump which uses a diaphragm to isolate the operating parts from pumped liquid in a mechanically actuated diaphragm pump, or from hydraulic fluid in a hydraulically actuated 
Universal Pumping is North America's leading supplier of high pressure Piston Membrane / Diaphragm Pumps and Vertical Ram Pumps from EMMERICH and EMS. Pumps for the most demanding applications including slurry removal and transport, grit pumping and removal, de-sludging and more.
Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) is a treatment that uses a pump to circulate blood through an artificial lung back into the bloodstream of a very ill baby. This system provides heart-lung bypass support outside of the baby's body. It may help support a child who is awaiting a heart or lung transplant.
The membrane is responsible for the different events that occur in a neurone. All animal cell membranes contain a protein pump called the sodium-potassium pump (Na+K+ATPase). This uses the energy from ATP splitting to simultaneously pump 3 sodium ions out of the cell and 2 potassium ions in.
Diaphragm Pump. (also called membrane pump), a pump in which the role of the piston is played by a flexible plate or diaphragm that is fastened at its periphery and is flexed by the action of a lever mechanism or by variations in the ambient pressure.