Inukshuk, the singular of inuksuit, means in the likeness of a human in the Inuit language. They are monuments made of unworked stones that are used by the Inuit for communication and survival. The traditional meaning of the inukshuk is Someone was here or You are on the right path.. Inuit tradition forbids the destruction of inuksuit. An inukshuk (also known as inuksuk) is often venerated as symbolizing an ancestor who knew how to survive on the land in the traditional way. A familiar inukshuk is a welcome sight to a traveler on a featureless and forbidding landscape.
Inuit is a plural noun; the singular is Inuk. The oral Inuit languages are classified in the Eskimo-Aleut family, whereas Inuit Sign Language is a critically endangered language isolate spoken in Nunavut. In the United States, Inupiat live on the North Slope in Alaska and on Little Diomede Island. The Greenlandic Inuit are the descendants of migrations from Canada and are citizens of Denmark, although not of the European Union.
Definition of INUK. : a member of the Inuit people. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Inuk. n. 1. (Peoples) a member of any Inuit people. [from Inuktitut inuk man]. 1  Facebook. Tootoo, the first. player and the first to grow up in Nunavut territory in Canada to participate in the National Hockey League game, has faced multiple NHL disciplinary actions in the past, including game suspensions without pay.
Inuit is not accepted as a term for the Yupik, and Eskimo is the only term that includes Yupik, Inupiat iñupiat And. Inuit, However aboriginal peoples In canada And greenland View eskimo as, pejorative And inuit has become more. common In the United States, Inupiat live on the North Slope in Alaska and on Little Diomede Island. The Greenlandic Inuit are the descendants of migrations from Canada and are citizens of Denmark, although not of the European Union.
Inuksuk in the vicinity of Kuujjuarapik, Quebec. Inuksuit at the Foxe Peninsula (Baffin Island), Canada. The word inuksuk means something which acts for or performs the function of a person. The word comes from the morphemes inuk (person) and-suk ( ersatz  or substitute). It is pronounced inutsuk in Nunavik and the southern part of Baffin Island (see Inuit phonology for the linguistic reasons)
More example sentences. 1  As an Inuk, getting water with a bucket was just what Inuit people did all the time without payment. 2  Gordon ran on a campaign to bring more Inuit representation to council, which is now made up of four Inuit and four non-Inuit councillors, plus an Inuk mayor. 
Of or relating to the Inuit or the languages spoken by the Inuit. [Inuit, pl. of. , human being, Eskimo .]. Usage Note: The preferred term for the native peoples of the Canadian Arctic and Greenland is now Inuit, and the use of Eskimo in referring to these peoples is often considered offensive, especially in Canada. Inuit is inappropriate, however, when used in reference to speakers of Yupik, the Eskimoan language branch of southwest Alaska and the Siberian Arctic. See Usage Note at Eskimo.
The directions of arms or legs could indicate the direction of an open channel for navigation, or a valley for passage through the mountains. An inukshuk without arms, or with antlers affixed to it, would act as a marker for a cache of food. An inukshuk in the form of a human being is called an inunnguaq. This type of structure forms the basis of the logo of the 2010 Winter Olympics designed by Vancouver artist Elena Rivera MacGregor. Inuit tradition forbids the destruction of inuksuit. An inukshuk (also known as inuksuk) is often venerated as symbolizing an ancestor who knew how to survive on the land in the traditional way. A familiar inukshuk is a welcome sight to a traveler on a featureless and forbidding landscape.