At the time of the station's construction the first cable car in Europe operated non-stop up Highgate Hill to the village from outside the Archway Tavern, and this name was also considered for the station. It is located underneath the Archway Tower, at the intersection of Holloway Road, Highgate Hill, Junction Road and Archway Road.
By Tube: Highgate Station (Northern Line) is a 10 minute walk from the hospital. When exiting the station use exit 3, turn right onto Archway Road walking past The Woodman’s Pub. Cross over at the junction on the left hand side walking past the Post Office. Parking restrictions apply: Monday to Friday between 10am - 12noon. Roads to park during these times include: Bishopswood Road, Hampstead Lane, Yeatman Road, Storey Road, Gaskell Road, Kenwood Road and Tyne Way.
Some locals choose to walk to nearby Archway as it is in Zone 2, one stop south of Highgate on the Northern line. Buses: Local bus routes include numbers 143 (to Brent Cross), 210 (to Finsbury Park), and the 603 (to Muswell Hill). Both buses 214 and 217 (to Moorgate) operate 24 hour services. 
Alternatively, there is a taxi rank opposite East Finchley Station (Northern Line), which is also nearby. By Bus: Bus routes 134, 43 and 263 run to Highgate Station, routes 214, 271 and 210 run to Highgate Village, and route 143 runs along North Hill. By Car: We are not in London's congestion charging zone. Parking restrictions apply: Monday to Friday between 10am - 12noon. Roads to park during these times include: Bishopswood Road, Hampstead Lane, Yeatman Road, Storey Road, Gaskell Road, Kenwood Road and Tyne Way.
Archway is a London Underground station in Archway, of the London Borough of Islington, north London. It is located underneath the Archway Tower, at the intersection of Holloway Road, Highgate Hill, Junction Road and Archway Road. It is on the High Barnet branch of the Northern line, between Highgate and Tufnell Park stations, in Zones 2 and 3
TripAdvisor Traveller Rating Based on 507 reviews. Highgate Cemetery is one of London's great Victorian cemeteries with historic, cultural and wildlife attractions. Features include Victorian buildings, chapels, catacombs, The Lebanon Circle and…Read More. Highgate Cemetery is one of London's great Victorian cemeteries with historic, cultural and wildlife attractions. Features include Victorian buildings, chapels, catacombs, The Lebanon Circle and Egyptian Avenue, all of outstanding architectural importanc
For the station known from 1907 to 1939 as Highgate, see Archway tube station. Highgate is a London Underground station and former railway station in Archway Road, in the London Borough of Haringey in north London. The station takes its name from nearby Highgate Village. It is on the High Barnet branch of the Northern line, between Archway and East Finchley stations and is in Travelcard Zone 3. The station was originally opened in 1867 as part of the Great Northern Railway 's line between Finsbury Park and Edgware stations. Highgate station was originally constructed by the Edgware, Highgate and London Railway in the 1860s on its line from Finsbury Park station to Edgware station.
This London Underground was earlier used as a rail station and has been operational since August 22, 1867 by the Great North Railway. At that time it was on a line that serves between Edgware and Finsbury Park through Highgate. Later in February 1894 it was renamed as Finchley (Church End). Around Finchley Central Tube Station you will find some sights and attractions, located in one mile proximity. In these sights and attractions you will not only find local residents but people from out of town also come to these places.