Short for Access Point, a hardware device or a computer's software that acts as a communication hub for users of a wireless device to connect to a wired LAN. APs are important for providing heightened wireless security and for extending the physical range of service a wireless user has access to. 
The point of sale (POS) is the time and place where a retail transaction is completed. It is the point at which a customer makes a payment to the merchant in exchange for goods or after provision of a service. For example, a grocery or candy store may use a scale at the point of sale, while a bar and restaurant may use software to customize the item or service sold when a customer has a meal or drink request.
Windows Embedded for Point of Service is the only operating system platform to provide Plug and Play functionality for retail peripherals such as cash drawers, scanners, POS keyboards, and receipt printers. For the purpose of quick comparison, Table 1 lists the features and components that are associated with the Windows XP Professional, Windows Embedded for Point of Service, Windows XP Embedded, and Windows CE 5.0 operating systems.
And Why it is Essential for a Retail Business. POS or PoS is an abbreviation for Point of Sale (or Point-of-Sale, or Point of Service). The term is applicable to a retail shop or store, the checkout/cashier counter in the store, or a location where such transactions can occur in this type of environment. Point of Sale (POS) Technology. The term Point of Sale is often used in connection or relative with the hardware and software for checkouts. In the case of some locations, with wireless capable systems or network wired via TCP/IP.
The point of sale is often referred to as the point of service because it is not just a point of sale but also a point of return or customer order. Additionally, today POS software may include additional features to cater for different functionality, such as inventory management, CRM, financials, warehousing, etc. For example, a grocery or candy store may use a scale at the point of sale, while a bar and restaurant may use software to customize the item or service sold when a customer has a meal or drink request.
Definition. A type of economic activity that is intangible, is not stored and does not result in ownership. A service is consumed at the point of sale. Services are one of the two key components of economics, the other being goods. Examples of services include the transfer of goods, such as the postal service delivering mail, and the use of expertise or experience, such as a person visiting a doctor. 
No. Windows Embedded for Point of Service is a new operating system that has been developed and optimized for use on POS devices such as self-checkout, information kiosks, and point of sale devices. For the purpose of quick comparison, Table 1 lists the features and components that are associated with the Windows XP Professional, Windows Embedded for Point of Service, Windows XP Embedded, and Windows CE 5.0 operating systems.
A point of service plan, is a type of managed care health insurance plan in the United States. It combines characteristics of the health maintenance organization (HMO) and the preferred provider organization (PPO). The POS is based on a managed care foundation---lower medical costs in exchange for more limited choice. But POS health insurance does differ from other managed care plans. Enrollees in a POS plan are required to choose a primary care physician from within the health care network; this PCP becomes their point of service
A POS system for a restaurant, for example, is likely to have all menu items stored in a database that can be queried for information in a number of ways. POS terminals are used in most industries that have a point of sale such as a service desk, including restaurants, lodging, entertainment, and museums. 