The Axis powers agreed on their opposition to the Allies, but did not coordinate their activity. The Axis grew out of the diplomatic efforts of Germany, Italy and Japan to secure their own specific expansionist interests in the mid-1930s. The first step was the treaty signed by Germany and Italy in October 1936. The war ended in 1945 with the defeat of the Axis powers and the dissolution of their alliance. As in the case of the Allies, membership of the Axis was fluid, with some nations switching sides or changing their degree of military involvement over the course of the war.
An even stronger alliance was signed between Germany and Italy on May 22, 1939 called the Pact of Steel. This treaty would later be called the Tripartite Pact when Japan signed it on September 27, 1940. Now the three main Axis Powers were allies in the war. World War II was fought between two major groups of nations. They became known as the Axis Powers and the Allied Powers. The major Axis Powers were Germany, Italy, and Japan.
Answer   Italy, Germany, and Japan formed an alliance on November 6, 1937.     It was first just Japan and Germany. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The History of Fort Lee Virginia Fort Lee in Virginia goes a long way back in American history. Answer The Main Reason why Italy was an ally was that in 1922 Italy got a Dictator  Mussolini and Hilter was also a dictator, which made them bed mates. Hitler admired Mussolini on how he kept absolute power in Italy.
1. Before WW1 Italy was part of an alliance with Germany and Austria-Hungary, yet it didn't join them when the war started and it even joined the Allied side later during the war.
Germany and Italy alligned in an agreement entitled the Rome-Berlin Axis Proclamation that was signed in 1936. Japan and Germany signed the Anti-Comintern Pact against the Soviet Union (who was an enemy of both nations) soon after. This led to a full military and political alliance in 1940 under the Tripartite Pact. The act basically stated that Germany had domain over Europe, Italy over the Med and Japan over Asia. Well Germany was always an enemy of the U.S. because it had attacked England and France (allies of the U.S.) but I believe they were pretty much forced to declare war against the U.S. after Japan attacked Pearl Harbor.
The Axis powers formally took the name after the Tripartite Pact was signed by Germany, Italy, and Japan on 27 September 1940, in Berlin. The pact was subsequently joined by Hungary (20 November 1940), Romania (23 November 1940), Slovakia (24 November 1940), and Bulgaria (1 March 1941). The war ended in 1945 with the defeat of the Axis powers and the dissolution of their alliance. As in the case of the Allies, membership of the Axis was fluid, with some nations switching sides or changing their degree of military involvement over the course of the war.