Copyright is a form of intellectual property, applicable to certain forms of creative work. Under US copyright law, legal protection attaches only to fixed representations in a tangible medium. Copyright law recognizes the right of an author based on whether the work actually is an original creation, rather than based on whether it is unique; two authors may own copyright on two substantially identical works, if it is determined that the duplication was coincidental, and neither was copied from the other.
Copyright is a legal right created by the law of a country that grants the creator of an original work exclusive rights for its use and distribution. This is usually only for a limited time. The exclusive rights are not absolute but limited by limitations and exceptions to copyright law, including fair use. Copyright law recognizes the right of an author based on whether the work actually is an original creation, rather than based on whether it is unique; two authors may own copyright on two substantially identical works, if it is determined that the duplication was coincidental, and neither was copied from the other.
Copyright infringement is considered to be punishable by law in the United States. Copyright infringement occurs when an individual or party uses, copies, or distributes a copyrighted work without the proper permission of the copyright owner or holder. The copyright symbol will be affixed directly on the work followed by the date of publication and the copyright owner or holder. Before attempting to copy or reproduce any work, it is important to make sure that the work is not protected by copyright.
Download article as a PDF. Copyright is a form of protection provided by the laws of the United States to the creators of original works including literary works, movies, musical works, sound recordings, paintings, photographs, software, live performances, and television or sound broadcasts. This protection is available to both published and unpublished works. The Copyright Act generally gives the owner of copyright the exclusive right to: 1  Reproduce the work; 2  Prepare other works based upon the work (derivative works); 3  Distribute copies of the work by sale or other transfer of ownership, or by lease; 4  Perform the work publicly; and. 5  Display the copyrighted work publicly
Copyright law is important for multimedia developers and publishers for two reasons: 1  Original multimedia works are protected by copyright. 2  Multimedia works are created by combining content - music, text, graphics, illustrations, photographs, software-that is protected under copyright law. Introduction. Copyright law in the U.S. is based on the Copyright Act of 1976, a federal statute that went into effect on January 1, 1978. We'll refer to this statute throughout the book as the Copyright Act.
A copyright owner has five exclusive rights in the copyrighted work: Anyone who violates any of the exclusive rights of a copyright owner is an infringer. Under current law, the copyright term for works created by individuals is the life of the author plus 70 years. Introduction. Copyright law in the U.S. is based on the Copyright Act of 1976, a federal statute that went into effect on January 1, 1978. We'll refer to this statute throughout the book as the Copyright Act.
Copyright Law in the United States. Copyright law in the U.S. is governed by federal statute, namely the Copyright Act of 1976. The Copyright Act prevents the unauthorized copying of a work of authorship. However, only the copying of the work is prohibited--anyone may copy the ideas contained within a work
Copyright law does not restrict the owner of a copy from reselling legitimately obtained copies of copyrighted works, provided that those copies were originally produced by or with the permission of the copyright holder. It is therefore legal, for example, to resell a copyrighted book or CD. Copyright law recognizes the right of an author based on whether the work actually is an original creation, rather than based on whether it is unique; two authors may own copyright on two substantially identical works, if it is determined that the duplication was coincidental, and neither was copied from the other.