Save/Export each image as a JPG. In Photoshop or PaintShop Pro, click File and select Save As. Select JPG as the file type. You can then choose the quality that you would like to save the JPG as. For GIMP, click File and select Export. Choose JPG from the dropdown menu of formats.
Instructions. Open your PDF document and size it on the screen exactly as you want it to appear in JPEG format. Click the Windows Start button, then enter Snipping tool into the search box in the Start menu. Select the Snipping Tool to launch the application.
Adobe Acrobat. Open the PDF file from Acrobat. Go to the File menu, select Open.. Choose the file that you want to convert to a JPEG. Click Open.. Convert the file to JPEG. Go to the File menu and select Export.. Choose Image and select JPEG.. Rename the file.
Extract a page from the PDF document. Open the PDF file from the File menu. Select a page that you want to convert if the PDF file is a multipage document. Click Open.. Export the PDF page as a JPEG file. Go to the File menu and select Export.. Select JPEG format under the Save as Type drop-down menu. Click Save.. Compress the JPEG image from the JPEG Options dialog box.
You can convert images (jpeg, png, gif, bmp, jpg) to PDF files by using a PDF converter. Simply open the image with a viewer, click on Print and select the PDF printer to convert the image to PDF.
The easiest way to convert PDF to a JPEG file is to print it using a virtual printer. A virtual printer differs from a desktop printer only in that instead of printing the document on a sheet of paper it saves the document as a PDF graphic file (JPEG, TIFF or PNG).
You can convert a PDF to a JPEG file using software included with Windows Vista and Windows 7. The drawback to doing this is that you lose image quality during the conversion. Other methods, which may give you more or less quality loss, include online and downloadable file converters.
You open the pdf file with it and select the page that contains the image. Select the image area, copy it to the clipboard. Then File, Create from Clipboard. Do any editing you need and then save as jpg.