The salaries of game show hosts vary a great deal, and it's really important to keep in mind that this kind of information is not public record, so none of these numbers are 100% verified. They come from a variety of sources, some much more reliable than others. If you're looking for a lucrative career, becoming a game show host isn't a terrible choice as long as you're willing to put in a lot of hard work and be fortunate enough to be cast on a show that's either been on the air for decades, or is a big hit in prime time even for a short period.
The salary of a game show host will vary depending on the shows  budget and the hosts popularity. They average about $34,000 per  year. There is no set answer. If the show falls under AFTRA or SAG jurisdiction, for instance on NBC or FOX, much more than the host of a small show on The Game Show network, celeb hosted shows are usually in the 50k ballpark for an NBC show (per episode) small non union shows can be 1-2 k an episode.
How much do game show hosts make? As of 2012, the average annual salary for game show hosts is $34,000; average annual game show host salaries vary greatly on location, employer, education, experience, and benefits (2). A career as a game show host is a great choice for people with a strong interest in television broadcasting and the desire to host a show that gets contestants involved and captures the attention of the audience. Game show hosts must have a solid understanding of the policies and procedures of television broadcasting
Regis Philbin. Salary: $20 million. Who Wants to be a Millionaire was a massive success in its heyday, and not having Regis yell-talk random things at us as much was also a huge success. And for that, Regis made a $20 million a year, still the highest paid game show host ever. So for that, he's worth his $10 million. Drew Carey. Salary: $8.5 million. Skinny Drew had the tough task of replacing Bob on The Price is Right, and he's done a nice job, but unlike Bob, I don't see Drew wanting to host the show when he's 90 and fighting off death.
Chuck Woolery – $65,000. As the original host of ‘Wheel of Fortune,’ Woolery got screwed over. With the rise in game show popularity, Woolery noticed that every other host’s salary was upwards of $500,000 so he demanded just that for himself. The network didn’t agree, so he was replaced by Pat Sajak who of course pulls in a lot more than $65,000. 6. Pat Sajak – $12,000,000. Pat Sajak also pulls in $12 Million a year for hosting Wheel of Fortune. It’s hard to imagine that this show is still popular, but actually it’s doing better than ever.
Jon Stewart is the highest paid late night host on TV. TV Guide Magazine is set to unveil their annual survey of star salaries, and have released a few tidbits in honor of the event. Jon Stewart is now the highest paid late night talk show host, earning between $25 and $30 million per year. In terms of narrative television, Ashton Kutcher maintains his status as the top paid actor in prime time, earning $750,000 per episode on Two and a Half Men. While Mark Harmon is the top earner on a TV drama with $525,000 per episode for NCIS.
There is a new king of late night, according to TV Guide Magazine 's annual survey of star salaries. And he's a very rich king. The Daily Show host Jon Stewart is now earning between $25-30 million a year, according to several sources (his network, Comedy Central, did not comment). That puts Stewart ahead of the past perennial late night salary leaders Jay Leno and David Letterman. He now earns around $20 million a year after being up near $30 million. Letterman is also said to be in the $20 million range as the license fee CBS pays to his production company, Worldwide Pants, for Late Show has been reduced in recent years.
New cars, cash, dream vacations… Game show hosts have spent decades helping everyday people like you and me get rich on national television. In 2004, Ken Jennings won $2.5 million off 75 straight Jeopardy games. Jenning's went on to win another $500,000 on Are you Smarter than a 5th Grader and today he holds the record for most money ever won on a game show at $3.773 million! Well, don't feel too bad for them. Hosts of popular game shows like Jeopardy, Wheel of Fortune and The Price is Right can be VERY highly compensated. And if the show reaches syndication then the hosts can really cash in.