It also develops other enzymes, such as proteases, which break down the proteins in the grain into forms that can be used by yeast. Malt also contains small amounts of other sugars, such as sucrose and fructose, which are not products of starch modification but were already in the grain. Malted grain is used to make beer; whisky; malted shakes; malt vinegar; confections such as Maltesers and Whoppers; flavored drinks such as Horlicks, Ovaltine and Milo; and some baked goods, such as malt loaf, bagels and rich tea biscuits. Malted grain that has been ground into a coarse meal is known as sweet meal.
Rice malt syrup (RMS) is made from 100% organic brown rice. It is made through culturing rice with enzymes to breakdown the starches and then cooking until it becomes syrup. The final product contains soluble complex carbohydrates, maltose and a small amount of glucose. RMS is 100% fructose free. 24 Responses to Rice Malt Syrup: the scoop! Hi Steph, I started the fructose free lifestyle 4 months ago and have been a HUGE fan of RMS for 3 months. Like you say, I love the way it sweetens food without making it sickly, while having all the extra benefits.
Barley Malt Syrup. Barley Malt Syrup is a natural sweetener that is dark brown in color, with a pleasant malty taste. It is about half as sweet as honey, probably similar to brown rice syrup. It is produced by cooking sprouted barley malt. Benefits: It contains some minerals and vitamins. It is a natural product and does not contain any chemicals. The enzymes that turn the carbohydrates to sugar occur naturally in the sprouted grains. It is reputed to have a lower glycemic index than table sugar (which is 65). It contains about 60% maltose (by dry weight) which has a high glycemic index of 105. 
Other alternatives to fructose-con-taining sweeteners are stevia and the sugar alcohols, including xylitol and erythritol. We’ll discuss these in an up-coming article. Fructose-free sugars Glucose is a single sugar unit (mono-saccharide) used by all body tissues as their primary energy source. Glucose is found naturally in fruits and other sweet foods, and it is a component of other sugars including sucrose (ordi-nary sugar), lactose (milk sugar), and maltose. Starches, such as those in grains and potatoes, consist of long chains of glu-cose molecules. Some sugars, especially those containing fructose, are more harmful than others.In the few months since my article, “Concerns about Fructose,” appeared in the July/August Co-op newsletter, the release of new information has only deepened those concerns.
1 When we do use sweetener in our recipes we opt for rice malt syrup (a complex carbohydrate blend of glucose and maltose) and stevia (a plant-derived sweetener containing no sugar of any kind). 2  My research has shown that it’s the safest and easiest to cook with. In fact, the most rice malt syrup we use in any I Quit Sugar recipe is 1/2 cup and that is over 8-10 serves.
In malted sweeteners, the grain is sprouted, pro-ducing its own enzymes that digest the starch.Dextrose, corn syrup, rice syrup, and barley malt can be used in recipes in place of ordinary sugar, honey, molas-ses, and maple syrup (which all contain fructose). Some sugars, especially those containing fructose, are more harmful than others.In the few months since my article, “Concerns about Fructose,” appeared in the July/August Co-op newsletter, the release of new information has only deepened those concerns.
Fructose-Restricted Diet What is fructose? Fructose is a natural sugar found in many foods like fruits and honey. When fructose is attached to a sugar called glucose, it forms sucrose or ‘table sugar.’ Long chains of fructose are called fructans and are found in certain vegetables, wheat, and other foods. Fructose is very sweet and is often made into high fructose corn syrup, used in soft drinks and processed foods.
Fructose is a sugar found naturally in three forms: free fructose, as a disaccharide in sucrose (table sugar) and as chains of fructose units called fructans. Dietary Fructose Intolerance can occur in anyone and is identified by special breath testing. Sucrose (table sugar or granulated sugar) contains fructose. However, since sucrose contains 50% fructose and 50% glucose, it can be eaten in reasonable amounts. Keep your fructose intake to a minimum (0-5 grams/day) for six weeks.