The Link between Constipation and Back Pain. Constipation is a condition where a person faces difficulty in eliminating stools from the body. Due to scarcity of water or other physiological problems, feces get blocked in the lower intestine or colon. I hope now your query of can constipation cause back pain is solved. So, from next time, when you suffer from constipation and back pain together, try to treat constipation first instead of taking painkillers for back pain.
The other reason behind back pain is when an individual gets bowel movement he tries to pass the hard and dry stool which results in strained back muscles. These strained muscles can cause lower back and abdominal pain. Constipation can also be a cause of bladder pain as it also exerts pressure on the bladder. I hope now your query of can constipation cause back pain is solved. So, from next time, when you suffer from constipation and back pain together, try to treat constipation first instead of taking painkillers for back pain.
Chronic constipation is often accompanied by lower left back pain as the patient also tries to force the body to defecate, straining at the toilet, only to put even more pressure on the lower back. This can affect the rest of the body by producing pain in related areas like leg pain and hip pain. It can be a symptom of something far worse than constipation. It all depends on each individual and the location of the pain. For instance, lower back pain might signal any one of the following conditions: 1  Muscle strain, 2  Sciatica or even.
Constipation and Back Pain. People who are constipated might not make the connection, but back pain can result from even short-term bouts of constipation. Problems in the bathroom can lead to a backup in your colon that just gets worse the more it goes on without relief. It can be a symptom of something far worse than constipation. It all depends on each individual and the location of the pain. For instance, lower back pain might signal any one of the following conditions: 1  Muscle strain, 2  Sciatica or even.
I am not going to tell about all the possible causes. One of the common causes of back pain is constipation. Yes, chronic constipation can cause lower back pain. There are many reasons for that. A slipped intervertebral disc is one of the main causes of chronic lower back pain. The intervertebral discs are made up of cartilage. 
1 Infections are not a common cause of back pain. 2  However, infections can cause pain when they involve the vertebrae, a condition called osteomyelitis; the intervertebral discs, called discitis; or the sacroiliac joints connecting the lower spine to the pelvis, called sacroiliitis. 
Sciatic nerve compression can cause sciatica. Constipation is a non-spinal factor that causes sciatica. The sciatic nerve is the largest nerve in your body. When you suffer from prolonged constipation, your sciatic nerves get compressed and this causes lower and mid back pain. 
When certain nerve fibers are affected by any of these conditions, the result can be a combination of constipation and back ache. Other common combination symptoms are back pain with chronic diarrhea, gas pains, heartburn, bloating, indigestion or general stomach discomfort. Back pain and constipation are symptoms that often go together, much to the dismay of suffering patients.
The cause and effect in other back pain / constipation combinations may be scenarios that have absorbed other contributing factors-medications. Chronic lower back pain is a common clinical problem, one of the most common in the nation. Meaning that a lot of people who go to the clinic are going because their back hurts. Constipation occurs from obstructions in your system or from slow transit time through the colon. When back pain is a factor, obstructive constipation is usually to blame. Obstructive constipation is fairly self descriptive; defecation is painful or halted due to a blockage. Although defecation stops, the traffic in the intestines does not. Just like a real life traffic jam, it gets worse before it gets better