It also stored in the cytosol in the form of small granules. Glycogen generally stored with water in 1:3 ratio. The glucose which is not used immediately is stored in the form of glycogen in the liver and muscles by the process of glycogenesis. Some tissues like liver and skeletal muscle store glucose in a form of glycogen which can be rapidly mobilized. 
Stores of readily available glucose to supply the tissues with an oxidizable energy source are found principally in the liver, as glycogen. Glycogen is a polymer of glucose residues linked by α-(1,4)- and α-(1,6)-glycosidic bonds. A second major source of stored glucose is the glycogen of skeletal muscle. However, muscle glycogen is not generally available to other tissues, because muscle lacks the enzyme glucose-6-phosphatase. Glycogen Structure. Glycogen is considered the principal storage form of glucose and is found mainly in liver and muscle, with kidney and intestines adding minor storage sites. With up to 10% of its weight as glycogen, the liver has the highest specific content of any body tissue.
In glycogen breakdown, phosphorylase kinase phosphorylates GPb to the more active form, GPa. In glycogen synthesis, phosphorylase kinase phosphorylates the active form of Glycogen Synthase (GSa), and converts it into the usually inactive b form (called GSb). The anabolic pathway contrasting with glycogen breakdown is that of glycogen synthesis. Just as cells reciprocally regulate glycolysis and gluconeogenesis to prevent a futile cycle, so too do cells use reciprocal schemes to regulate glycogen breakdown and
Glycogen Metabolism. Structure-Glycogen is a polymer of glucose (up to 120,000 glucose residues) and is a primary carbohydrate storage form in animals. See Figure 13.16. The polymer is composed of units of glucose linked alpha(1-4) with branches occurring alpha(1-6) approximately every 8-12 residues
Glycogen is a multibranched polysaccharide of glucose that serves as a form of energy storage in animals and fungi. The polysaccharide structure represents the main storage form of glucose in the body. It has a similar structure to amylopectin (a component of starch), but is more extensively branched and compact than starch. Glycogen is found in the form of granules in the cytosol /cytoplasm in many cell types, and plays an important role in the glucose cycle.
Glycogen Structure. Glycogen is a polymer of glucose (up to 120,000 glucose residues) and is a primary carbohydrate storage form in animals. The polymer is composed of units of glucose linked alpha(1-4) with branches occurring alpha(1-6) approximately every 8-12 residues. The anabolic pathway contrasting with glycogen breakdown is that of glycogen synthesis. Just as cells reciprocally regulate glycolysis and gluconeogenesis to prevent a futile cycle, so too do cells use reciprocal schemes to regulate glycogen breakdown and
Glycogen is a storage form of glucose and is a ready source of energy. It is important in liver and muscle. The glycogen in muscle is used as a fuel reserve for ATP synthesis while in the liver it is used as a glucose reserve for the maintenance of blood glucose. Muscle glycogen does not help maintain blood glucose levels, as liver glycogen does. Muscle glycogen is used as a source of energy during increased muscle activity. Explain the differences of glycogenolysis in muscle and liver
Rabbit muscle phosphoglucomutase, drawn from PDB: 1JDY ​. Phosphoglucomutase (EC 5.4.2.2) is an enzyme that transfers a phosphate group on an α-D-glucose monomer from the 1' to the 6' position in the forward direction or the 6' to the 1' position in the reverse direction. More precisely, it facilitates the interconversion of glucose 1-phosphate and glucose 6-phosphate. Phosphoglucomutase also acts in the opposite fashion when blood glucose levels are high. In this case, phosphoglucomutase catalyzes the conversion of glucose 6-phosphate (which is easily generated from glucose by the action of hexokinase) to glucose 1
• Surplus of carbohydrate fuel after meal is conserved as glycogen and fat • Glycogen is the storage form of glucose in mammalian cells • Liver – After a meal glucose is removed from portal circulation and the excess is stored as glycogen, up to 70g in adult. 