Melanocyte-stimulating hormone is a collective name for a group of peptide hormones produced by the skin, pituitary gland and hypothalamus in response to ultraviolet (UV) radiation. It plays a key role in producing coloured pigmentation found in the skin, hair and eyes. In Addison’s disease, the adrenal glands do not produce enough hormones (including cortisol). This leads to a positive feedback loop where the hypothalamus stimulates the pituitary gland to release more adrenocorticotropic hormone to try and stimulate the adrenal glands to produce more cortisol.
Girls. In girls, between the ages of about 10 and14, the pituitary gland produces Luteinising Hormone (LH) and Follicle Stimulating Hormone (FSH) which together stimulate the production of the sex hormones by the ovaries. 
You are here: Melanocyte-stimulating hormone. Print | Email article to a friend | Last updated: March 31, 2015. Melanocyte-stimulating hormone describes a group of hormones produced by the pituitary gland, hypothalamus and skin cells. It is important for protecting the skin from UV rays, development of pigmentation and control of appetite. In Addison’s disease, the adrenal glands do not produce enough hormones (including cortisol). This leads to a positive feedback loop where the hypothalamus stimulates the pituitary gland to release more adrenocorticotropic hormone to try and stimulate the adrenal glands to produce more cortisol.
For the article: http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/jid.2011.221. The skin has recently been found to produce cortisol and thereby serves as an extra-adrenal site of glucocorticoid synthesis, albeit in a tightly regulated manner, to simulate the hypothalamus–pituitary–adrenal axis (Vukelic et al., 2011). It has been known for some time that the skin of amphibians, such as frogs, contains high amounts of thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH), which stimulates skin darkening in amphibians via centrally acting mechanisms (Jackson and Reichlin, 1977). Until recently, however, little was known about TRH in human skin and hair.
The MC1R gene provides instructions for making a protein called the melanocortin 1 receptor. This receptor plays an important role in normal pigmentation. The receptor is primarily located on the surface of melanocytes, which are specialized cells that produce a pigment called melanin. Melanin is the substance that gives skin, hair, and eyes their color. 
many factors can affect the endocrine glands and the body's hormone balance. If the body reaches a state of imbalance, a variety of health problems can arise. Problems make their presence known internally in the blood, heart, internal organs and the outside, in hair, skin and nails. Hormones are the chemical messengers of the endocrine system. The hormones play the role of the chemical messengers to the endocrine systems. Hormones help maintain and control energy levels, reproduction, growth, development, metabolism, sexual function and internal balance known as Homeostasis.
So I will start with the endocrine system, which is a network of gland and organs that produce and release hormones through our bodies. It is one of our body's main communication systems, which controls and coordinates proper body functions. Hormones are the chemical messengers of the endocrine system. The hormones play the role of the chemical messengers to the endocrine systems. Hormones help maintain and control energy levels, reproduction, growth, development, metabolism, sexual function and internal balance known as Homeostasis.
Hair colour is produced by cells known as melanocytes, which migrate into the hair bulb as the hair follicles develop in utero. The melanocytes produce pigment that is incorporated into the growing hair fibres to produce hair in a bewildering array of natural shades. Hair colour depends on the presence and ratios of two groups of melanins: eumelanins (brown and black pigments) and pheomelanins (red and yellow pigments). While variations in the ratio of these pigments can produce an large number of colours and tones, siblings often have strikingly similar hair colour.
Growth hormone is produced and released in the body, allowing for the hormone to interact with a number of other cells and organs in the body. It stimulates cell reproduction … and general growth. Testosterone As A Female gets older the gradually produce more Testosterone.... As a Boy gets Older He Produces less Estrogen and More Testoterone.... testosterone works in sync with human growth hormone which is why men are mostly taller and more heavily built