Medical Definition of PROZONE PHENOMENON. : the reduction in characteristic effect exhibited in the prozone of antibody-antigen mixtures—called also prozone effect. What made you want to look up prozone phenomenon?
in an agglutination or precipitation reaction, the zone of relatively high antibody concentrations within which no reaction occurs. As the antibody concentration is lowered below the prozone, the reaction occurs. This phenomenon may be due simply to antibody excess or it may be due to blocking antibody or to nonspecific inhibitors in serum. 
The terms prozone and postzone thus carry the reverse meanings.Perhaps more distinguishing terms are needed for this phenomenon. In Reply.— In most titrations, the amount of antibody is varied in the presence of a constant amount of antigen (Fig 2, top). The prozone is then the zone of antibody excess, resulting in an absence of antibody-antigen precipitation or agglutination. The postzone is the comparable zone of antigen excess.
(Redirected from Prozone phenomenon). The hook effect or the prozone effect is a false negative result with certain immunoassays due to very high concentrations of a particular analyte. The hook effect mostly affects one-step immunometric assays. Since the antibodies do not bridge between antigens, no agglutination occurs. Because no agglutination occurs, the test is interpreted as negative. In this case, the result is a false negative. The zone of relatively high antibody concentrations within which no reaction occurs is called the prozone or the prezone.
Although the appropriate concept was probably communicated, the terminology used was not entirely correct.The prozone reaction refers to the absence of antibody-antigen precipitation in the presence of antibody excess. Since the authors refer to situations of antigen excess, the term prozone cannot correctly be used. Instead, absence of precipitation with excess antigen is described as the postzone phenomenon. This term should be applied to false-negative antigen test results in undiluted serum, which become positive on dilution. Furthermore, the point of maximum precipitation is named the zone of equivalence1 (Fig 1). 
Abstract. Prozone phenomenon is a false negative response resulting from high antibody titer which interferes with formation of antigen-antibody lattice, necessary to visualize a positive flocculation test. We present a case of secondary syphilis who presented to us with features of contact irritant dermatitis. 
in an agglutination or precipitation reaction, the zone of relatively high antibody concentrations within which no reaction occurs. As the antibody concentration is lowered below the prozone, the reaction occurs. This phenomenon may be due simply to antibody excess or it may be due to blocking antibody or to nonspecific inhibitors in serum. prozone. the phenomenon exhibited by some sera, in which agglutination or precipitation occurs at higher dilution ranges, but is not visible at lower dilutions or when undiluted.
Confidence votes 54. Prozone phenomenon is a possible cause of False-Negative antigen-antibody reaction caused by Excessive amout of antibody Post-zone phenomenon refers to the Excess of antigen resulting in no lattice formation in an agglutination reaction. 