It will cost $300 to $400 per day to hire a general contractor. Many times, a general contractor will also be a carpenter and do a lot of the work that needs to be done. That is a great help and cost savings to the project. Whether a general contractor will do work on a project depends on their skills and the outlook of the job. If your general contractor does not do any labor he may want 10% to 20% of the cost of the project. If he does the carpentry he will want 45% to 65% of the money paid to contractors on the project. 
They hire each sub-contractor and add a mark-up percentage to the sub-contractor's cost. Many general contractors also have their own crew of laborers, for which they charge an hourly rate. Typically the contractor' s crew will be general carpentry trades people, some who may have more specialized skills. Exactly how a general contractor charges for a project depends on the type of contract you agree to. There are three common types of cost contracts, fixed price, time & materials and cost plus a fee. Each contract type has pros and cons for both the consumer and for the contractor
It is the amount a business charges above their direct cost. If your contractor has a 1.50 markup (which is reasonable for a remodeling contractor), that means that if the estimated cost for a job is $10,000, they'll multiply the $10,000 x 1.50 and arrive at a $15,000 sales price. Now many people who know little about business and even less about the costs of running a business will say, Oh, look at that crook. He is making $5,000 profit on my job.. Nope, not true.
(United States). The average wage for a General Contractor is $29.74 per hour. Experience has a moderate effect on pay for this job. Skills that are associated with high pay for this job are Sales, Contractor Management, Construction Estimating, and Project Management. 
The typical remodeling contractor will have overhead expenses ranging from 25% to 54% of their revenue – that means every $15,000 job could have overhead expenses of $3,750 to $8,100. Somewhere along the line, people started believing that a 10% overhead and 10% profit is the industry standard for construction jobs. Now many people who know little about business and even less about the costs of running a business will say, Oh, look at that crook. He is making $5,000 profit on my job.. Nope, not true.
The contractor bids your project for a specific price and that is how much it will cost...in theory. For small, simple projects, you can probably count on this contract to work for you and for your contractor. Typically the contractor' s crew will be general carpentry trades people, some who may have more specialized skills. Exactly how a general contractor charges for a project depends on the type of contract you agree to. There are three common types of cost contracts, fixed price, time & materials and cost plus a fee.
This year (2008), the general contractor building our home in Los Angeles, CA is on a fixed fee of 10% of the estimated project cost, plus $75 per hour for any additional work due to major change requests. That hourly rate is probably high for non-costal cities. I don't think most general contractors work on hourly rates. A general contractor working on a cost-plus basis typically charges between 10% and 15% over the total project cost as her profit. A general contractor working on a fixed-bid will probably have a significantly higher margin to account for unexpected expens
Building permits are needed for more than just new home construction. The national average cost of a building permit is $853, with most homeowners spending between $366 and $1,340. This data is based on actual project costs according to HomeAdvisor members. Depending on the area, they may be required for additions, renovations and even electrical or plumbing projects. 
So, how much does a contractor cost, anywhere from 5% to 25% of the total project cost, with the average ranging 10-15%. Typically the contractor' s crew will be general carpentry trades people, some who may have more specialized skills. Exactly how a general contractor charges for a project depends on the type of contract you agree to. There are three common types of cost contracts, fixed price, time & materials and cost plus a fee.