1 To start your insurance career and begin selling Commercial insurance you can either decide to work for a company as a captive agent or choose to work through a broker. 2  Many agents find that working through a brokerage firm typically provides greater opportunities for success because they can offer multiple carriers. An agent in a commercial insurance career is required to obtain a Property and Casualty License and a Commercial Insurance License from the state that he or she wishes to sell policies in.
Many agents choose an insurance career specializing in commercial insurance because the premiums and commissions are higher than most personal line payouts. Minimum premiums typically start at $500 and can exceed hundreds of thousands of dollars. An agent in a commercial insurance career is required to obtain a Property and Casualty License and a Commercial Insurance License from the state that he or she wishes to sell policies in.
Insurance is a heavily regulated field, and agents must be licensed by their state. Roughly a quarter of agents work for an insurance company and often sell its products exclusively. About half work for an independent insurance agency or brokerage and sell the products of many insurance companies. Nearly 20 percent are self-employed. Commissions are an important source of income for most agents, although a smaller number hold salaried positions. Independent agents who work for a brokerage may have irregular hours, but they also have more control over their work schedules than agents who work for an insurance company or spend most of their time in an office.
Before an agent starts an insurance career in Commercial Insurance, they must understand what it is and how it works. Commercial insurance protects business owners against potential losses relating to liability and property damage. An agent in a commercial insurance career is required to obtain a Property and Casualty License and a Commercial Insurance License from the state that he or she wishes to sell policies in.
It is a great way to get your foot in the door to the business and finance world but I would not recommend it at all for a career path. The reason in the decline of income in agents is because the insurance companies are making it more commissioned based rather than salary based. Even when it comes to office supplies. Report Abuse. Ive worked in the insurance business for 2 years and im only 17. Ive talked with my boss (the agent) on many occasions to see if it is a wise career choice. Hes making six figures by being an insurance agent, HOWEVER, the business has changed in the last ten years. Some agents are only pulling in 80,000 gross which in turn they net only around 50,000 or les
For those deciding on a career path, youth can be both a benefit and a burden in just about any industry. Insurance is no different. The majority of young agents (78.0 percent) responding to the survey said they feel they must work harder to gain the confidence of clients. More than half (57.5 percent) of young agents work in family-owned agencies and nearly one-third (32.4 percent) say they were recruited to work in their current insurance job because of a family business relationship, the survey revealed.
Insurance sales agents commonly sell one or more types of insurance, such as property and casualty, life, and health and long-term care. Insurance sales agents help insurance companies generate new business by contacting potential customers and selling one or more types of insurance. Insurance sales agents explain various insurance policies and help clients choose plans that suit them. Captive agents are insurance sales agents who work exclusively for one insurance company. They can only sell policies provided by the company that employs them. Independent insurance agents work for insurance brokerages, selling the policies of several companies.
How to Start an Insurance Career as a Commercial Agent (varies by state). An agent in a commercial insurance career is required to obtain a Property and Casualty License and a Commercial Insurance License from the state that he or she wishes to sell policies in.