British Forces and their families living at BATUS in Canada had access to BFBS 1, a limited amount of BFBS 2 and BFBS 3 and Sky News on a 7-hour timeshift from CET. During the day, the television channel that BFBS 2/3 broadcast on, played BFBS Radio 1. On 10 June 2014, SSVC launched Forces TV, a new channel about the British Armed Forces. It is available on BFBS, Sky 264, Virgin 244 and Freesat 652. Its content is a mixture of news reports, documentaries and features produced by BFBS.
Many of the programmes on BFBS Radio 2 are sourced from BBC Radio 4 and BBC Radio Five Live, including the soap opera The Archers, which was popular in Hong Kong until BFBS Radio ceased broadcasting on 30 June 1997 before the handover to China. On 10 June 2014, SSVC launched Forces TV, a new channel about the British Armed Forces. It is available on BFBS, Sky 264, Virgin 244 and Freesat 652. Its content is a mixture of news reports, documentaries and features produced by BFBS.
BFBS Television broadcasts the best of UK television round the clock to Germany, Cyprus, Turkey, the Middle East and bases in Canada, the Balkans, Belize, Ascension and the Falklands. BFBS Radio. BFBS Radio has three networks broadcasting pop and speech radio 24 hours a day, combining the best of local radio from eight overseas locations with a service relayed from the UK to places around the world wherever significant numbers of Service personnel are based.
1 Simply tune to 'BFBS Radio'. 2  On a Sky Digital box we’re listed under the 'Radio' section of your Electronic Programme Guide (EPG) – punch in Channel 0211 and you'll be listening. 3  On a Freesat satellite receiver we're also under the 'Radio' section, Channel 786. 1 BFBS Radio 2 broadcasts on FM in Forces locations overseas – the frequencies are listed below. 2  You can hear a selection of BFBS Radio 2 programmes online (but licensing restrictions mean we do not simulcast BBC programmes on the web).
Entertain & inform with BFBS TV & Radio … anywhere. BFBS is a not-for-profit charity whose sole aim is to provide welfare and entertainment to the British Forces. BFBS is the MoD trusted supplier of welfare & entertainment services to the British Forces stationed across the globe since 1943
However, as a result of card sharing by services personnel, BFBS TV (later BFBS 1) was available to unentitled viewers on the island, along with other channels until 2011, when an illegal pay-TV service was closed down in a joint operation by the Cyprus Police and the Audiovisual Anti-Piracy Alliance. On 10 June 2014, SSVC launched Forces TV, a new channel about the British Armed Forces. It is available on BFBS, Sky 264, Virgin 244 and Freesat 652. Its content is a mixture of news reports, documentaries and features produced by BFBS.
BFBS Radio in the UK: 1  Find us on your DAB (Digital Audio Broadcasting) radio. 2  Simply tune to 'BFBS Radio'. 3  On a Sky Digital box we’re listed under the 'Radio' section of your Electronic Programme Guide (EPG) – punch in Channel 0211 and you'll be listening. 1 BFBS Radio 2 broadcasts on FM in Forces locations overseas – the frequencies are listed below. 2  You can hear a selection of BFBS Radio 2 programmes online (but licensing restrictions mean we do not simulcast BBC programmes on the web).
BFBS TV. BFBS Television broadcasts the best of UK television round the clock to Germany, Cyprus, Turkey, the Middle East and bases in Canada, the Balkans, Belize, Ascension and the Falklands. Fifteen 24-hour channels broadcast via satellite to personnel in 17 countries, with Navy TV being broadcast to HM Ships. BFBS Radio. BFBS Radio has three networks broadcasting pop and speech radio 24 hours a day, combining the best of local radio from eight overseas locations with a service relayed from the UK to places around the world wherever significant numbers of Service personnel are based.
How to Listen. BFBS offers three main radio services: BFBS Radio for upbeat music-based programming and news, BFBS Radio 2 for music, sport and speech including the best of the BBC, and BFBS Gurkha Radio for Nepali language programmes. 1  BFBS Radio can be heard across the UK on DAB radio, overseas on FM, and online. 1 BFBS Radio 2 broadcasts on FM in Forces locations overseas – the frequencies are listed below. 2  You can hear a selection of BFBS Radio 2 programmes online (but licensing restrictions mean we do not simulcast BBC programmes on the web).
BFBS Radio in the UK: 1  Find us on your DAB (Digital Audio Broadcasting) radio. 2  On a Sky Digital box we’re listed under the 'Radio' section of your Electronic Programme Guide (EPG) – punch in Channel 0211 and you'll be listening. 3  On a Freesat satellite receiver we're also under the 'Radio' section, Channel 786. 1 BFBS Radio 2 broadcasts on FM in Forces locations overseas – the frequencies are listed below. 2  You can hear a selection of BFBS Radio 2 programmes online (but licensing restrictions mean we do not simulcast BBC programmes on the web).