Propylene glycol is used as a humectant (E1520), solvent, and preservative in food and for tobacco products. It is also one of the major ingredients (30-92%), along with vegetable glycerin, of the e-liquid and cartridges used in electronic cigarettes (as well as liquid nicotine), where it is vaporized in the atomizer. It is produced on a large scale and is primarily used in the production of polymers but also sees use in food processing as the E-number E1520. The compound is sometimes called α-propylene glycol to distinguish it from the isomer propane-1,3-diol (β-propylene glycol).
Propylene glycol, also called propane-1,2-diol, is an organic compound with the chemical formula C 3 H 8 O 2. It is a viscous colourless liquid which is nearly odourless but possesses a faintly sweet taste. It is produced on a large scale and is primarily used in the production of polymers but also sees use in food processing as the E-number E1520. The compound is sometimes called α-propylene glycol to distinguish it from the isomer propane-1,3-diol (β-propylene glycol).
Propylene glycol is a synthetic liquid substance that absorbs water. Propylene glycol is also used to make polyester compounds, and as a base for deicing solutions. Propylene glycol is used by the chemical, food, and pharmaceutical industries as an antifreeze when leakage might lead to contact with food. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has classified propylene glycol as an additive that is generally recognized as safe for use in food. Propylene glycol is also used to create artificial smoke or fog used in fire-fighting training and in theatrical productions. Other names for propylene glycol are 1,2-dihydroxypropane, 1,2-propanediol, methyl glycol, and trimethyl glycol. Propylene glycol is clear, colorless, slightly syrupy liquid at room temperature.
Propylene glycol is a colourless synthetic liquid created from fermenting carbohydrates, and is used as a solvent in paint, as well as serving as a preservative in food and for tobacco products. Propylene glycol (or PG as it is more commonly known) absorbs water and is therefore a popular and cost-effective addition to beauty products. It is also a common addition to a wide range of medicines, and plays a vital role in the electronic cigarette industry as it is a main ingredient in all e-liquids.
Propylene glycol is an ingredient found in many personal-care products, including shampoos, hair conditioners, and leave-in styling products. It is widely used because of its relatively low cost and versatile nature. The Chemical Facts About Propylene Glycol: Propylene glycol (also known as 1,2 propanediol) is a relatively small molecule with two alcohol (hydroxyl) groups (-OH). It is a colorless and odorless liquid and is completely water-soluble. PG is a synthetic product obtained from the hydration of propylene oxide, which is derived from petroleum products
Propylene glycol is an organic compound. It is a colorless, nearly odorless, clear, viscous liquid with a faintly sweet taste that is very low in toxicity. It is a derivative of propylene oxide, which in turn is a derivative of propylene, and is used as an ingredient in many household products and cosmetics. To give you an indication of the wide variety of products propylene glycol is used in, take a look at the following list: 1  Toiletries and cosmetics, like soap, deodorant, lotions, shampoo, lipstick and lubricants.
Propylene glycols are chemicals made by the reaction of propylene oxide with water. For more than five decades propylene glycols have had an excellent reputation for safe use in a wide range of consumer products, including foodstuffs, animal feed, cosmetics and pharmaceuticals, as well as industrial applications.
TAGSTOCK1/iStock/Getty Images. Propylene glycol (PG) is a colorless and odorless liquid chemical used for decades in a wide array of applications. A synthetic substance produced in industrial quantities, it is a relatively simple organic compound that has the chemical formula C3H8O2. Propylene glycol (PG) is a colorless and odorless liquid chemical used for decades in a wide array of application