Controlled movements involve two opposing muscles: the agonist muscle produces the main action, while the antagonist muscle produces the opposite action to a lesser degree. The balance between agonist and antagonist muscles allows precise control of the final action. 
agonist muscle. Controlled movements involve two opposing muscles: the agonist muscle produces the main action, while the antagonist muscle produces the opposite action to a lesser degree. The balance between agonist and antagonist muscles allows precise control of the final action. antagonist muscle muscles or muscle groups which neutralize action of another muscle or muscle group (see antagonist; muscle contraction).
Noun. 1. antagonistic muscle - (physiology) a muscle that opposes the action of another; the biceps and triceps are antagonistic muscles. muscle, musculus-one of the contractile organs of the body. agonist-a muscle that contracts while another relaxes; when bending the elbow the biceps are the agonist. antagonist-a muscle that relaxes while another contracts; when bending the elbow the triceps are the antagonist. physiology-the branch of the biological sciences dealing with the functioning of organisms. 
Definition of AGONIST. 1. : one that is engaged in a struggle. 2. [from antagonist] a: a muscle that is controlled by the action of an antagonist with which it is paired. ADVERTISEMENT. Medical Definition of AGONIST. 1. : a muscle that on contracting is automatically checked and controlled by the opposing simultaneous contraction of another muscle—called also agonist muscle, prime mover; compare antagonist a, synergist 2. 2
See also: muscle. agonist muscle prime mover (see agonist). antagonist muscle muscles or muscle groups which neutralize action of another muscle or muscle group (see antagonist; muscle contraction). cardiac muscle; myocardium striated heart muscle
Antagonist and agonist muscles often occur in pairs, called antagonistic pairs. As one muscle contracts, the other relaxes. An example of an antagonisic pair is the biceps and triceps; to contract-the triceps relaxes while the biceps contracts to lift the arm. 
3. agonist-a muscle that contracts while another relaxes; when bending the elbow the biceps are the agonist. antagonistic muscle - (physiology) a muscle that opposes the action of another; the biceps and triceps are antagonistic muscles. agonist - (biochemistry) a drug that can combine with a receptor on a cell to produce a physiological reaction. drug-a substance that is used as a medicine or narcotic. biochemistry-the organic chemistry of compounds and processes occurring in organisms; the effort to understand biology within the context of chemistry.
Antagonist and agonist muscles work in pairs to accomplish a full range of movements and actions. Muscles, however, are not specifically antagonist or agonist. Depending on the movement required, a muscle can be an agonist in one motion and an antagonist during another action. The agonist always contracts to initiate movement and the antagonist stretches and lengthens to allow the movement. Common pairs of antagonist and agonist muscles exist. In the upper body, the biceps and triceps work to complete actions related to movement of the arm. The quadriceps and hamstrings in the upper leg work to help move the knee joint and perform exercises, such as squats and leg extensions.