Many people assume that college refers to a private institution and a university refers to a state-funded school. Other people may think that a university provides a better education than a college. In reality, the difference between a college and a university is much more difficult to define. If you are interested in learning more about the difference between a college, community college and junior college, check out the U.S. Department of Education’s Federal Student Aid.
The Difference Between a College and a University. In a global context, the words “college” and “university” can inspire confusion. Different countries use the same words to name different things. What is usually called a “college” in Europe is really more like the two-year institution called a “community college” in the United States.
A university is an institution that offers undergraduate and graduate degrees. Universities offer graduate programs leading to a master’s degree or a Ph.D. These institutions also may have a medical or law school for students wishing to pursue professional degrees. If you are interested in learning more about the difference between a college, community college and junior college, check out the U.S. Department of Education’s Federal Student Aid.
The difference between a college and university can depend very much on where someone lives. In many cases in the US, colleges refer to schools that offer four-year advanced education only, and an institution which does not typically offer more than a bachelor’s degree. 
The difference between a college and a university is that a college just offers a collection of degrees in one specific area while a university is a collection of colleges. When you go to a university you are going to be graduating from one of their colleges, such as the business college. 1 The main difference between a college and a university is that the university maintains research requirements for its instructors and that the university is, in essence, a more research-focused institution. 2  A college can offer many majors with which to direct your studies
1 4) Last point, in answer to The difference between a college and a university is that a college just offers a collection of degrees in one specific area, while a university is a collection of colleges: Universities contain colleges and universities offer the degree. 1 The main difference between a college and a university is that the university maintains research requirements for its instructors and that the university is, in essence, a more research-focused institution. 2  A college can offer many majors with which to direct your studies
University vs College. The difference between university and college depends on the place where are located. In other words, university and college are higher education institutions that take different meanings depending on where they are located. All of the countries agree on what a university is
University vs College. The difference between a college and a university is that generally a college offers set of degrees in one specific area whereas a university has a collection of colleges. Most of the time, universities are well known and they are larger than colleges. The difference between both college and university varies between the USA and the rest of the world. In USA, universities are larger and have many colleges within them. UK-a university can provides degree, colleges usually depends on a fully-fledged university validating its degre