hardness. n. 1. the quality or condition of being hard. 2. (Minerals) one of several measures of resistance to indentation, deformation, or abrasion. See Mohs scale, Brinell hardness number. 3. (Chemistry) the quality of water that causes it to impair the lathering of soap: caused by the presence of certain calcium salts. 
Mohs' hardness is a measure of the relative hardness and resistance to scratching between minerals. Other hardness scales rely on the ability to create an indentation into the tested mineral (such as the Rockwell, Vickers, and Brinell hardness-these are used mainly to determine hardness in metals and metal alloys). Talc (1), the softest mineral on the Mohs scale has a hardness greater than gypsum (2) in the direction that is perpendicular to the cleavage. Diamonds (10) also show a variation in hardness (the octahedral faces are harder than the cube faces).
Hardness (noun). the cohesion of the particles on the surface of a body, determined by its capacity to scratch another, or be itself scratched;-measured among minerals on a scale of which diamond and talc form the extremes. Hardness (noun). the peculiar quality exhibited by water which has mineral salts dissolved in it. Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: hardness (noun). the property of being rigid and resistant to pressure; not easily scratched; measured on Mohs scale. hardness (noun). a quality of water that contains dissolved mineral salts that prevent soap from lathering.
Hardness means a rock is hard as a scale from 1 to 10; 1 softest and 10 hardess. 1 Best Products for Testing Water Hardness Water hardness refers to the level of dissolved mineral content in water. 2  Though most experts agree that hard water in the home is not generally harmful to the health, it can…. 3  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
1 5 Examples of the Mohs Hardness Scale Geology uses the Mohs Hardness Scale to measure the surface strength of gems and minerals. 2  Geologist Friedrich Mohs created the scale in 1812 and it assigns minerals a numeri…. 1 Best Products for Testing Water Hardness Water hardness refers to the level of dissolved mineral content in water. 2  Though most experts agree that hard water in the home is not generally harmful to the health, it can…. 3  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
Hardness – How hard or soft a mineral is can tell you right away what mineral it could or could not be. The hardness of minerals is based on the Mohs Hardness Scale, which ranges from 1-10, 1 being the softest and 10 the hardest. Minerals, quite simply, are the building blocks for making rocks, and a rock is made up of one or more minerals. When you look at a rock and see different colors, those colors are minerals that make up that specific rock.
One of the most important tests for identifying mineral specimens is the Mohs Hardness Test. This test compares the resistance of a mineral to being scratched by ten reference minerals known as the Mohs Hardness Scale (see Table 1). For instance, the progression from calcite to fluorite (from 3 to 4 on the Mohs scale) reflects an increase in hardness of approximately 25 percent; the progression from corundum to diamond, on the other hand (9 to 10 on the Mohs scale), reflects a hardness increase of more than 300 percent. [3].
A measure of the ease with which a smooth surface of a mineral can be scratched, or of its resistance to abrasion. In 1822 the Austrian mineralogist Friedrich Mohs devised a scale based on one mineral's ability to scratch another. He placed 10 minerals in order from softest to hardest, giving a relative hardness value of 1 to the softest mineral, and 10 to the hardest. Rather, it is a method of gauging the relative hardness of a mineral. If a mineral cannot be scratched by a knife blade but can be scratched by quartz then its hardness is between 5 and 7 (stated as 5-7) on Mohs scale. A relative hardness value of 6.5 means that the mineral could scratch orthoclase (feldspar) but not quartz
Report Abuse. There really aren't levels of hardness so to say, but there are certain terms to describe just how erect a male is. When a male says he's Rock Hard, it means that he's as hard as possible. This usually occurs when the male is close to orgasm or at as high an arousal point as possible. 