Fred's character was developed to loudly repeat everything he said, similar to the way Looney Tunes character Foghorn Leghorn speaks. Actor John Savident has revealed that, when filming scenes as Fred, he was inspired by quirks of real-life people.. In 1999, Fred let slip to Audrey Roberts (Sue Nicholls) that Ashley is actually his son, and Beryl confirmed it. In 1997, Fred married Maureen Holdsworth (Sherrie Hewson) but Maureen soon realised it was a mistake so they separated and later divorced.
The following is a list of current characters in the ITV soap opera Coronation Street listed in order of appearance. If more than one actor has portrayed a character then the current actor portraying is listed. 
Robert Englund. Actor | Miscellaneous Crew | Director. Veteran character actor Robert Englund was born in Glendale, California, to Janis (MacDonald) and John Kent Englund, an aeronautics engineer. He has Swedish, Danish, Scottish, and English ancestry. Since 1973, Englund has appeared in over 75 feature films and starred in four TV series
Fred Freddy Krueger is the main antagonist of the A Nightmare on Elm Street film series. He first appeared in Wes Craven 's A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984) as a burnt serial killer who uses a glove armed with razors to kill his victims in their dreams, causing their deaths in the real world as well. In Dream Warriors, more of Freddy's backstory is revealed by the mysterious nun who repeatedly appears to Dr. Gordon. Freddy's mother, Amanda Krueger, was a nurse at the asylum featured in the film.
View Resume | Official Photos ». Freddie Stroma was born on January 8, 1987 in London, England. He is an actor, known for Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (2009), Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2 (2011) and Pitch Perfect (2012). See full bio ». in London, England, UK.
Freddy's back story is revealed gradually throughout the series. In A Nightmare on Elm Street 3: Dream Warriors, the protagonists learn that Freddy's mother, Amanda Krueger, was a nun who worked in Westin Hills mental hospital caring for the inmates. In Dream Warriors, more of Freddy's backstory is revealed by the mysterious nun who repeatedly appears to Dr. Gordon. Freddy's mother, Amanda Krueger, was a nurse at the asylum featured in the film.
Langley was born to Australian parents in Somerset, but grew up in Buxton, Derbyshire. He attended Harpur Hill Primary School and Buxton Community School. He trained at the North Cheshire Theatre School in Heaton Moor. Along with his sisters he was a member of a number of junior string orchestras in which he played the cello. Langley dated Victoria Roscoe, a beautician, from 2004-12. Roscoe gave birth to their son, Freddie, in May 2007. In November 2013, Langley revealed he and Roscoe had ended their relationship but were sharing the upbringing of their son.
Todd Grimshaw is back in Weatherfield and reunited with his old friend Sean Cotton. Bruno Langley, who played 'Coronation Street's first acknowledged gay character from 2001 until 2004, has been snapped filming his first scenes for the ITV soap since 2011. Bruno Langley (Todd Grimshaw) and Antony Cotton (Sean Tully).
Frederick Handel Fred Elliott is a fictional character from the British soap opera Coronation Street, played by John Savident from 1994 until 2006. In 1999, Fred let slip to Audrey Roberts (Sue Nicholls) that Ashley is actually his son, and Beryl confirmed it. In 1997, Fred married Maureen Holdsworth (Sherrie Hewson) but Maureen soon realised it was a mistake so they separated and later divorced.