About Bavarian language, dialects and words. Bavarian (in German: Bayerisch pronounced Buyerish) belongs to the Upper German languages spoken in Bavaria the south of Germany. Several German dialects are spoken in Bavaria. 
Sorbian is a protected minority language. Some Danish is spoken in Schleswig-Holstein. Germany has a large Turkish minority, which speaks Turkish. Danish, Sorbian, Romany and Frisian are the other minority languages. Many Germans also speak English, French, Latin, Dutch, and Russian as a second language. First-generation immigrants may, of course, speak the languages of their former countries. This includes over 2 million Turkish immigrants.
German Language. German is used as the official language of Germany and of Austria. It is also used as one of the four official languages of Switzerland (along with French, Italian, and Romansh). As a result the German language, although of great importance for the historical literature of science and technology (in which Germany was preeminent up to 1933), does not today play a major role in global commerce.
The main language spoken in Germany, the national language, is German. (German has many dialects including Bavarian, Swabian, Hessian, Plattdeutsch, and Saxon). English is taught in schools, often to a respectable or even high standard. Sorbian is a protected minority language. There are 4 main minority languages, each spoken by less than .1% of the population: Sorbani, Romani, Danish, and North Frisian. Many Germans also speak English, French, Latin, Dutch, and Russian as a second language.
Germany. The official language of Germany is German, with over 95% of the population speaking German as their first language. Minority languages include Sorbian, spoken by 0.09% in the east of Germany and North Frisian spoken in Nordfriesland by around 10,000 people, or 0.01%, who also speak German. Danish is spoken by 0.06%, mainly in the area along the Danish border. Romani, an indigenous language is spoken by around 0.08%. Immigrant languages include Turkish, which is spoken by around 1.8%, and Kurdish, by 0.3%. BBC News Online country profile.
The main language spoken in Germany, the national language, is German. (German has many dialects including Bavarian, Swabian, Hessian, Plattdeutsch, and Saxon). English is t … aught in schools, often to a respectable or even high standard. Many Germans also speak English, French, Latin, Dutch, and Russian as a second language. First-generation immigrants may, of course, speak the languages of their former countries. This includes over 2 million Turkish immigrants.
They are spoken in parts of the Alsace, southern Germany, Liechtenstein, Austria, and the German-speaking parts of Switzerland and Italy. Wymysorys is a High German dialect of Poland native to Wilamowice, and Sathmarisch and Siebenbuergisch siebenbürgisch Are High german dialects Of. romania For example, Hutterite German resembles dialects of Carinthia. Texas German is a dialect spoken in the areas of Texas settled by the Adelsverein, such as New Braunfels and Fredericksburg. In the Amana Colonies in the state of Iowa, Amana German is spoken.
One of the major languages of the world, German is the first language of about 95 million people worldwide and the most widely spoken native language in the European Union. For example, Hutterite German resembles dialects of Carinthia. Texas German is a dialect spoken in the areas of Texas settled by the Adelsverein, such as New Braunfels and Fredericksburg. In the Amana Colonies in the state of Iowa, Amana German is spoken.
Over 95% of German residents speak German or German dialects. There are 4 main minority languages, each spoken by less than .1% of the population: Sorbani, Romani, Danish, and North Frisian. Many Germans also speak English, French, Latin, Dutch, and Russian as a second language.
German is the most widely spoken (and official) language in Germany, Austria, Switzerland, the Italian province of South Tyrol (Alto Adige) and Liechtenstein; it is also an official (but not majority) language of Belgium and Luxembourg. For example, Hutterite German resembles dialects of Carinthia. Texas German is a dialect spoken in the areas of Texas settled by the Adelsverein, such as New Braunfels and Fredericksburg. In the Amana Colonies in the state of Iowa, Amana German is spoken.