Dopamine production. Dopamine is produced in several areas of the brain, including the substantia nigra and the ventral tegmental area. It is a neurohormone that is released by the hypothalamus. A) The chemical structure of the monoamine neurotransmitter dopamine and a schematic drawing of the localization of dopamine-containing neurons in the human and rat brain and the sites where dopamine-containing axons are found.
By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. Dopamine is a neurotransmitter released by the brain that plays a number of roles in humans and other animals. Some of its notable functions are in: 1  movement. 2  memory. 3  pleasurable reward. 4  behavior and cognition. 5  attention. 6  inhibition of prolactin production. Dopamine produced by neurons in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus is released in the hypothalamo-hypophysial blood vessels of the median eminence, which supply the pituitary gland. This acts on the lactotrope cells that produce prolactin.
Dopamine. Dopamine is an important neurotransmitter found naturally in the brain. Dopamine (and norepinephrine) belongs to a subcategory of monoamines called catecholamines. The chemical structure of dopamine is C 8 H 11 NO 2 as is depicted in the picture above. The study of dopamine in methamphetamine use is very important as it is involved in the reinforcing effects of drug abuse. In general, dopamine is normally involved in many important functions such as mood, movement, and learning.
Dopamine is a neurotransmitter. It is a chemical messenger that helps in the transmission of signals in the brain and other vital areas. Dopamine is found in humans as well as animals, including both vertebrates and invertebrates. A) The chemical structure of the monoamine neurotransmitter dopamine and a schematic drawing of the localization of dopamine-containing neurons in the human and rat brain and the sites where dopamine-containing axons are found.
Neurotransmitters with discrete localization within the brain. A) The chemical structure of the monoamine neurotransmitter dopamine and a schematic drawing of the localization of dopamine-containing neurons in the human and rat brain and the sites where dopamine-containing axons are found.
Its name derives from its chemical structure: it is an amine that is formed by removing a carboxyl group from a molecule of L-DOPA. In the brain, dopamine functions as a neurotransmitter—a chemical released by nerve cells to send signals to other nerve cells. The brain includes several distinct dopamine systems, one of which plays a major role in reward-motivated behavior. 
Dopamine is an organic chemical of the catecholamine and phenethylamine families that plays several important roles in the human brain and body, as well as elsewhere in biology. Its name derives from its chemical structure: it is an amine formed by removing a carboxyl group from a molecule of L-DOPA. In the brain, dopamine functions as a neurotransmitter —a chemical released by nerve cells to send signals to other nerve cells. The brain includes several distinct dopamine systems, one of which plays a major role in reward-motivated behavior. Dopamine itself is used as precursor in the synthesis of the neurotransmitter norepinephrine and the hormone epinephrine. Dopamine is converted into norepinephrine by the enzyme dopamine β-hydroxylase (DBH), with O 2 and L-ascorbic acid as cofactors.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The dopamine transporter (also dopamine active transporter, DAT, SLC6A3) is a membrane-spanning protein that pumps the neurotransmitter dopamine out of the synapse back into cytosol, from which other transporters sequester DA and NE into vesicles for later storage and release. DAT is implicated in a number of dopamine-related disorders, including attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, bipolar disorder, clinical depression, and alcoholism. The gene that encodes the DAT protein is located on human chromosome 5, consists of 15 coding exons, and is roughly 64 kbp long.
Most types of reward increase the level of dopamine in the brain, and a variety of addictive drugs increase dopamine neuronal activity. Other brain dopamine systems are involved in motor control and in controlling the release of various hormones. Dopamine itself is used as precursor in the synthesis of the neurotransmitter norepinephrine and the hormone epinephrine. Dopamine is converted into norepinephrine by the enzyme dopamine β-hydroxylase (DBH), with O 2 and L-ascorbic acid as cofactors.