Photosynthesis is a process used by plants and other organisms to convert light energy, normally from the Sun, into chemical energy that can be later released to fuel the organisms' activities. Carbon dioxide is converted into sugars in a process called carbon fixation. Carbon fixation is an endothermic redox reaction, so photosynthesis needs to supply both a source of energy to drive this process, and the electrons needed to convert carbon dioxide into a carbohydrate.
Photosynthesis Photosynthesis is the process by which plants, some bacteria and some protistans use the energy from sunlight to produce glucose from carbon dioxide and water. This glucose can be converted into pyruvate which releases adenosine triphosphate (ATP) by cellular respiration. Oxygen is also formed.
Best Answer: Yes... photosynthesis produces ATP (adenosine triphosphate). The fact of the matter is that photosynthesis is conducted only by plant producers while cellular respiration only by animal consumers. One of them are not able to do both! RE: Does photosynthesis produce ATP? So I need to know why cellular respiration is the best way to produce ATP, and I&#39;m starting with finding out how much ATP other processes produce. Then I need more points and reasons on why cell.
Cellular respiration is the process by which the chemical energy of food molecules is released and partially captured in the form of ATP. Carbohydrates, fats, and proteins can all be used as fuels in cellular respiration, but glucose is most commonly used as an example to examine the reactions and pathways involved. 
Starting with glucose, 1 ATP is used to donate a phosphate to glucose to produce glucose 6-phosphate. Glycogen can be converted into glucose 6-phosphate as well with the help of glycogen phosphorylase. During energy metabolism, glucose 6-phosphate becomes fructose 6-phosphate. 
No. ATP is produced by the first stage of photosynthesis, but is then used in the second stage to capture and reduce carbon dioxide. Therefore no ATP is released by photosynth … esis. ATP isn't created during the process of photosynthesis.  Photosynthesis merely creates glucose, which is afterwards consumed  to create the ATP. This ATP, however, serves th … e purpose all ATP  does in the body: energy that the cell can use. Answered. In Biology.
A. Oxygen is produced during cellular respiration and stored during photosynthesis. B. Carbon dioxide and water released by cellular respiration are used in photosynthesis. C. Photosynthesis releases the energy that is stored during the process of cellular respiration. D. Glucose is used during cellular respiration to produce food that is broken down during photosynthesis. CLICK HERE FOR ANSWER
Photosynthesis. Photosynthesis is the process by which plants, some bacteria and some protistans use the energy from sunlight to produce glucose from carbon dioxide and water. This glucose can be converted into pyruvate which releases adenosine triphosphate (ATP) by cellular respiration. Oxygen is also formed.
Photosynthesis is the process by which plants, some bacteria, and some protistans use the energy from sunlight to produce sugar, which cellular respiration converts into ATP, the fuel used by all living things. 