-Let adhesive set for 30 seconds or until sticky; during this time, holding the lash by both ends of the base strip, flex it back and forth forming the shape of a horseshoe (this contours the base strip to fit your eyelid easily and comfortably). What it is: A best-selling, waterproof false-lash adhesive. What it does: Hold your false eyelashes securely in place, for a look that is all dramain a good way.
Mascara is not really required since the extensions actually give the illusion of wearing mascara. In fact, one of the many benefits of eyelash extensions is that you do not need to use mascara. If you must apply mascara, however, only use water-based mascara. DO NOT USE OIL-BASED OR WATER-PROOF MASCARA as they can dissolve the bonding agent used and they can shorten the life of your eyelash extensions.
GLUE ULTRA PLUS 10ML. For the eyelash extension professional it is very important to have the best and top quality glue. An eyelash extension glue that is; easy to work with, has a quick drying time and creates an ultra-long lasting bond. This Blink Ultra eyelash extension glue is the best and most ideal for the eyelash professional. Product Highlights: This glue has a quick drying time of 1-3 seconds. Black in color. Using a black eyelash extension glue creates seamless lashes. Strong bonding period. The Ultra plus glue is one of the strongest bonding glues available. The bonding period of the natural lash and the extension is up to five weeks. Your clients will feel like they are really getting the best lashes when they last a long time.
Mascara is not really required since the extensions actually give the illusion of wearing mascara. In fact, one of the many benefits of eyelash extensions is that you do not need to use mascara. If you must apply mascara, however, only use water-based mascara. DO NOT USE OIL-BASED OR WATER-PROOF MASCARA as they can dissolve the bonding agent used and they can shorten the life of your eyelash extensions. Use care when washing off the water-based mascara and only use a water based eye makeup remover.
Your lash artist will use a medical grade adhesive, made especially for use around the eyes to apply a synthetic (or false) lash to each individual eyelash. Due to the intricate nature, the process takes about an hour and a half to two hours for a first time visit. A re-fill takes about 45 mins to an hour. 1 Do not sleep on or “crush” your lashes. 2  This will create stress on the extension and cause them to fall out sooner. 3  Do not use oil-based products. 4  They will loosen the lash extension’s glue bond. 5  Check and be certain that your face cleansers and cosmetics don’t contain glycols and other solvents.
When applied by a professional, eyelash extensions will last the length of the. natural growth cycle of your eyelashes, usually between 4 and 8 weeks. Depending on your activity and day-to-day routine, refills should only be. required every 2 to 4 weeks. If you must apply mascara, however, only use water-based mascara. DO NOT USE OIL-BASED OR WATER-PROOF MASCARA as they can dissolve the bonding agent used and they can shorten the life of your eyelash extensions.
We recommend that you do not wash your eye area for about 24-48 hours after the eyelash application. A special waterproof bonding agent is used. Glue does not contain any fumes or irritants and is long lasting. DO NOT USE OIL-BASED OR WATER-PROOF MASCARA as they can dissolve the bonding agent used and they can shorten the life of your eyelash extensions. Use care when washing off the water-based mascara and only use a water based eye makeup remover.
We recommend that you do not wash your eye area for about 24- 48 hours after the eyelash application. A special waterproof bonding agent is used. Glue does not contain any fumes or irritants and is long lasting. If you must apply mascara, however, only use water-based mascara. DO NOT USE OIL-BASED OR WATER-PROOF MASCARA as they can dissolve the bonding agent used and they can shorten the life of your eyelash extensions.
BENEFITS FROM PREMIUM INGREDIENTS. True Glue all natural lash adhesive is the first of its kind! It’s completely natural and actually beneficial for your skin and lashes, and it works! True Glue lash adhesive is for use with any type of false lashes and lasts all day until removed. While all conventional lash glues make your lashes dry and brittle, True Glue lash adhesive is actually beneficial for your skin and lashes! Containing all premium ingredients such ingredients Biotin, Castor Oil and Chamomile extract
We only use medical-grade adhesive to apply semi-permanent eyelash or eyebrow extensions. Derma-bond technology (used by physicians to bond skin together) is the bases for the structure of our eyelash and eyebrow extension adhesive. 