Applicants who do not meet the above minimum GPA requirement will undergo a second calculation of their last 60 undergraduate credits earned. An application can be considered for admission if the final 60 credits are at or above a 3.0 (on a 4.0 scale). Applicants with an earned master’s or doctoral degree*. Can advance for admission consideration. *If minimum criteria are not met, applicants will still be required to submit official MAT scores of at least 395 in order to advance for DR, unless programs require a higher GPA per their graduate catalog descriptions.
1 Preferred applicants will have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 or greater. 2  Satisfactory scores on the SAT or ACT exam. 3  To have your test scores sent to us directly, please use SAT code #2374 or ACT code #3609. Students applying for admission to Pennsylvania College of Health Sciences must meet the following requirements.
Penn State does not have a minimum GPA or standardized test score used for admission: we consider a combination of your GPA and standardized test scores, as well as the factors listed above. Please refer to the chart of the middle 50 percent to help determine your competitiveness for admission. First-Year Application Evaluation. The high school record, particularly your grade-point average (GPA) and class rank (if applicable), accounts for approximately two-thirds of the decision. Class rank is also considered for students with honors or Advanced Placement courses whose schools do not supply a weighted GPA.
program requirements. Master of Business Administration (MBA) Clarion University's general admission requirements apply, with the following additions: 1  If GPA is below a 3.25, students must submit official scores on the Graduate Management Admissions Test (GMAT) or GRE. 2  A 450 minimum score of the GMAT is required. 1 Undergraduate minimum quality-point average requirement is 3.0 or above (Provisional admission is possible for students with an undergraduate GPA under 3.0 but above 2.75). 2  Letter stating goals for graduate study.
Admission Requirements. Applicants must have a minimum cumulative undergraduate grade-point average (GPA) of 2.6 (on a 4.0 scale) if their bachelor’s degree was earned five or fewer years ago. If earned more than five years ago, the minimum undergraduate GPA of 2.4 (on a 4.0 scale) is required. Applicants with an earned master’s or doctoral degree*. Can advance for admission consideration. *If minimum criteria are not met, applicants will still be required to submit official MAT scores of at least 395 in order to advance for DR, unless programs require a higher GPA per their graduate catalog descriptions.
The average GPA at University of Pennsylvania is 3.9. (Most schools use a weighted GPA out of 4.0, though some report an unweighted GPA. With a GPA of 3.9, University of Pennsylvania requires you to be at the top of your class. You'll need nearly straight A's in all your classes to compete with other applicants. Furthermore, you should be taking hard classes-AP or IB courses-to show that college-level academics is a breeze. If you want to get in, the first thing to look at is the acceptance rate. This tells you how competitive the school is and how serious their requirements are. The acceptance rate at University of Pennsylvania is 12% . For every 100 applicants, only 12 are admitted. This means the school is extremely selective. Meeting their GPA requirements and SAT/ACT requirements is very important to getting past their first round of filters and proving your academic preparation
7,428 out of 12,735 applicants or 58% percent were admitted making Indiana University of Pennsylvania-Main Campus moderately easy school to get into with a good chance of acceptance assuming you meet the requirements. 
Estimated GPA Requirements. The average high school GPA of the admitted freshman class at University of Pennsylvania was 3.9 on the 4.0 scale indicating that primarily A-students are accepted and ultimately attend. These admission statistics provide an indication as to the selectivity of the school and how difficult it is to get in. 3,935 out of 31,218 applicants or 13% percent were admitted making Penn a very difficult school to get into with a low chance of acceptance for the traditional applicants attracted to this school.
You can see that the great majority of accepted students had a GPA of 3.8 or higher, a combined SAT score of over 2000, and an ACT composite of 29 or higher. Hidden beneath the blue and green in the upper right corner of the graph is a lot of red, so keep in mind that students with 4.0 gpas and high test scores get rejected from Penn. It's one of the reasons I recommend that all students consider Penn a reach school, even if your scores are on target for admission.