An employment contract or contract of employment is a kind of contract used in labour law to attribute rights and responsibilities between parties to a bargain. The contract is between an employee and an employer.. It has arisen out of the old master-servant law, used before the 20th century. But generally, the contract of employment denotes a relationship of economic dependence and social subordination. In the words of the controversial labour lawyer Sir Otto Kahn-Freund,
As the economy worsens, contract jobs are becoming more and more numerous. Offering contract jobs saves larger companies the time of looking for and hiring new employees as well as the money that a regular employee would receive in benefits. 
A contract of employment usually defined to mean the same as a contract of service. A contract of service has historically been distinguished from a contract for the supply of services, the expression altered to imply the dividing line between a person who is employed and someone who is self-employed. The contract is between an employee and an employer.. It has arisen out of the old master-servant law, used before the 20th century. But generally, the contract of employment denotes a relationship of economic dependence and social subordination. In the words of the controversial labour lawyer Sir Otto Kahn-Freund,
Employment contracts between an employer and employee are generally open-ended contracts. There is no end date placed on the contract, which leaves the contract between the two parties open until it is changed through termination or by quitting. This type of contract can be in writing or by verbal agreement between the employer and the employee. Open-ended employment contracts are used whenever hiring employees on a permanent basis. Fixed-term, or closed contracts are used for seasonal, temporary or leased employees.
How Contract Positions Work. Contract positions are employment arrangements that do not involve the same level of commitment as an employer-employee relationship. If you hire contract workers, you are not required to pay employment taxes on the hours they work as you would for a regular employee. Taxes. A contract worker is responsible for paying his own taxes. You do not withhold taxes from his paycheck, and you do not pay employer contributions for his share of Social Security and Medicare, or employment taxes such as unemployment insurance and industrial insurance.
1. As an employer, the tax and employment responsibilities you have for your staff will depend on the type of contract you give them and their employment status. Contract types include: 1  full-time and part-time contracts. 2  fixed-term contracts. 3  agency staff. 4  freelancers, consultants, contractors. 5  zero hour contracts. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Yes, it means you sign a contract and that it's a temporary job. There are two types of contract jobs. One type is through a contracting agency, like an employment agency. You get a paycheck from them and sometimes benefits. taxes are withheld, just like you're an employee. The other type is independent contracting. A contract job is a temporary job based on the amount of time listed in the contract. Although it is only a temporary job, they have an option to offer you a renewal after the contract is complete. By signing the contract for 2 years or whatever, both you and the company agree that you will work that long.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Contractor means a temporary job. You get a contract that states you are going to work for x amount of time. Sometimes being a contractor is a way for the company to test drive you. A lot of companies will hire you full time if you do well and they have a full time open position.