Transgender Flag. The transgender pride flag by Monica Helms. The current transgender flag was designed by trans woman Monica Helms in 1999. It has five stripes in total, from top to bottom: blue, pink, white, pink, blue. It first appeared a pride parade in Phoenix, Arizona in 2000. [1] [2]. 1  The blue stripes represent men as blue is the traditional color for baby boy
1. The trans pride flag was designed by Monica Helms, an openly transgender American woman, in August 1999. It was first shown at a Phoenix, Arizona LGBT pride celebration the following year. Monica Helms (right) with the National Center for Transgender Equality Executive Director, Mara Keisling. In August 2014, Helms donated the original transgender flag to the Smithsonian National Museum of American History in Washington, DC, as part of a special LGBT collection.
The genderqueer and non-binary pride flag is a Marilyn Roxie design, 3rd and final version created in June 2011 (with a true color update in June of 2012), modified from version 1.0 in June 2010, and 2.0 in September 2010. 
Transgender pride flag created by Monia Helms. Transgender gender symbol created by Holly Boswell. Transgender is an umbrella term for anyone whose internal experience of gender does not match the gender they were assigned at birth (normally based on genitalia). 
Baker transferred the day-to-day operation of the flagpole to the merchants' association in 2001. The trans flag was created by Monica Helms, a transgender woman, in 1999. It was first flown at a pride parade in Phoenix, Ariz., the following year. Helms described the logic behind her flag's coloring: The stripes at the top and bottom are light blue, the traditional color for baby boys. For the first time in its history, the iconic flagpole at San Francisco's Harvey Milk Plaza raised the pink, white and blue transgender flag at a ceremony marking the eve of the annual Transgender Day of Remembrance, which takes place on November 20.
Transgender pride flag (top): The transgender pride flag was created by Monica Helms in 1999, and was first flown at a Pride parade in Phoenix, Arizona in 2000. The pansexual pride flag was created to distinguish from bisexuality. The blue stripe represents people who identify as male, the pink represents people who identify as female and the yellow represents people who identify as no gender, both genders or a third gender, such as genderqueer.
Transgender Pride flag. The Transgender Pride flag was created by American trans woman Monica Helms in 1999, and was first shown at a pride parade in Phoenix, Arizona, United States in 2000. The flag represents the transgender community and consists of five horizontal stripes: two light blue, two pink, and one white in the center. The Trans Flag was first used by the Ottawa area trans community for Ottawa's 2010 edition of the Trans Day of Remembrance. This event included a ceremony in which the Ottawa Police unveiled and raised this flag.
A design for an alternative transgender flag, created by Ottawa designer Michelle Lindsay, consists of two stripes: the top in magenta representing female and the bottom in blue representing male, overlapped by a transgender symbol in white. In August 2014, Helms donated the original transgender flag to the Smithsonian National Museum of American History in Washington, DC, as part of a special LGBT collection.
It consists of two stripes, the top in Sunset Magenta representing female, and the bottom in Ocean Blue representing male, with the transgender symbol centred in white overlaying them. The Trans Flag was first used by the Ottawa area trans community for Ottawa's 2010 edition of the Trans Day of Remembrance. This event included a ceremony in which the Ottawa Police unveiled and raised this flag.