This is common after the baby has been crying or otherwise worked up. A normal breathing rate for a calm infant is about 40 breaths per minute, according to MUSC Children's Hospital. New parents often worry about their newborn's breathing rate. The irregular nature of most babies' breathing patterns can confuse parents and leave them wondering what is normal and what might be a sign of a medical problem in their new baby.
photo and audio recording by Janelle Aby, MD interactive image provided by http://expand2web.com. The normal respiratory rate of a newborn is 40 - 60. On examination, lungs sounds should be clear and heard with equal volume bilaterally. The example above demonstrates normal respiration in an infant. 
Definition. Respiratory rate (also known as ventilation rate, respiration rate, breathing rate, pulmonary ventilation rate, breathing frequency, and respiratory frequency or Rf) = the number of breaths a person takes during one minute. It is usually measured at rest, while sitting. Older textbooks often provide even smaller values (e.g., 8-10 breaths per minute). Most modern adults breathe much faster (about 15-20 breaths per minute) than their normal breathing frequency. The respiratory rates in the sick persons are usually higher, generally about 20 breaths/min or more.
There are some circumstances when parents should be concerned about a newborn's breathing rate or pattern. If the baby stops breathing for longer than 10 seconds or starts to turn blue, parents should call emergency services immediately and bring the baby to a hospital. New parents often worry about their newborn's breathing rate. The irregular nature of most babies' breathing patterns can confuse parents and leave them wondering what is normal and what might be a sign of a medical problem in their new baby.
Asleep. During sleep, a newborn's breathing rate slows to 20 to 40 breaths per minute. According to Baby Centre UK, the sleeping newborn often exhibits periodic breathing, a breathing cycle quite different from adult breathing patterns. New parents often worry about their newborn's breathing rate. The irregular nature of most babies' breathing patterns can confuse parents and leave them wondering what is normal and what might be a sign of a medical problem in their new baby.
Infants often have a normally irregular respiratory rhythm, so count their respiratory rate for 1 full minute, preferably while the infant is calm or asleep (for the most accurate rate). A normal respiratory rate for this age group is between 30 and 60 breaths per minute. A normal respiratory rate for an adolescent is between 16 and 20 breaths per minute. Again, be aware of the signs of respiratory distress (tachypnea, retractions, and nasal flaring) and if you observe these, initiate treatment immediately.
A normal respiratory rate for a toddler is between 25 and 30 breaths per minute; for children between the ages of 3 and 6 years, it averages between 21 and 24; and for children between the ages of 6 and 10 years, it averages 19 to 20. A normal respiratory rate for an adolescent is between 16 and 20 breaths per minute. Again, be aware of the signs of respiratory distress (tachypnea, retractions, and nasal flaring) and if you observe these, initiate treatment immediately.
Groups of children Their ages Normal respiration rates Newborns and infants Up to 6 months old 30-60 breaths/min Infants 6 to 12 months old 24-30 breaths/min Toddlers and children 1 to 5 years old 20-30 breaths/min Children 6 to 12 years 12-20 breaths/min. Older textbooks often provide even smaller values (e.g., 8-10 breaths per minute). Most modern adults breathe much faster (about 15-20 breaths per minute) than their normal breathing frequency. The respiratory rates in the sick persons are usually higher, generally about 20 breaths/min or more.