Particle image velocimetry (PIV) is an optical method of flow visualization used in education and research. It is used to obtain instantaneous velocity measurements and related properties in fluids. 
PIV may stand for: 1  Particle image velocimetry, a method to measure velocities in fluid. 2  Peak inverse voltage, an electronics term. 3  Pentium 4 microprocessor, produced by Intel (IV is Roman numeral for 4). 4  Personal Identity Verification, as specified by FIPS 201. 5  Picasso-IV, an Amiga video card. 
Part of the Government IT glossary: A personal identity verification (PIV) card is a United States Federal smart card that contains the necessary data for the cardholder to be granted to Federal facilities and information systems and assure appropriate levels of security for all applicable Federal applications. USA Patriot Act. - The USA Patriot Act is a law enacted in 2001, granting new and extended data-collection abilities to federal agencies in an effort to combat terrorism after the September 11 attacks.
Welcome to the CFSD ParentVUE and StudentVUE Information Page. The Catalina Foothills School District (CFSD) provides online student information to parents/guardians and students through Synergy’s ParentVUE and StudentVUE portals. These portals replace the former Parent Internet Viewer (PIV). An activation key is required to login to ParentVUE and StudentVUE. 
Activating a PIV Authentication Certificate. To activate your Personal Identity Verification (PIV) certificate: On the “Home” page, click Activate PIV Certificate. Note: If you have more than one CAC (i.e., Civil Service and Reserve), multiple CAC information boxes will display. Click the action in the box associated with the CAC that you want to update. Click Proceed to continue activating the PIV Authentication certificate associated with your CAC. Click Update CAC. The progress of your task is displayed
PIV-I credentials offer vetted individuals many capabilities, including secure communication with federal organizations as well as secure physical and logical access to the appropriate facilities, machines, portals or applications. Certified PIV-I Solutions for: 1  State and local government employees. 
Answer: PIV files are Video Files primarily associated with Pivot Stickfigure Animator Cartoon (Peter Bone). PIV files are also associated with Pivotal Sales Suite Activity File (Pivotal Corporation) and FileViewPro. Additional types of files may also be using the PIV file extension. 
1 This is demonstrated in the different OIDS used in the certificates in the cards. 2  The intent here is to allow users under the Common Policy can trust users of PIV-I cards through the linkage at the FBCA. 3  Content Signing: Both PIV and PIV-I cards contain signed objects. 1 Common Policy vs FBCA mapping: From a logical perspective the trust anchor for PIV is the Federal PKI Common Policy Root. 2  For PIV-I the trust anchor is the issuers root but the issuers policy must be mapped to the Federal Bridge CA.
Because JavaScript is disabled, you can only sign in by entering your OpenID URL manually: OpenID is a service that allows you to sign in to many different websites using a single identity. Find out more about OpenID and how to get an OpenID-enabled account. 