The majority of the world's rum production occurs in the Caribbean and Latin America. Rum is also produced in Austria, Spain, Australia, New Zealand, Fiji, Hawaii, the Philippines, India, Reunion Island, Mauritius, South Africa, Taiwan, Thailand, Japan, the United States and Canada. Rums are produced in various grades.
Rum is a distilled alcoholic beverage made from sugarcane by-products such as molasses and sugarcane juice by a process of fermentation and distillation. The distillate, a clear liquid, is then usually aged in oak and other barrels (Wikipedia). The rum that is produced is clean or a very translucent shade of brown. Oh its also very strong. It will taste strongly of Molasses and kinda oily. If you want to make its a bit more like say, vodka, just distill the rum two or three more times.
Captain Morgan is a brand of rum produced by alcohol conglomerate Diageo. It is named after the 17th-century British privateer of the Caribbean, Sir Henry Morgan who died on 26 August 1688. Since 2011, the label has used the slogan To Life, Love and Loot.. 
Rum is a distilled alcoholic beverage made from sugarcane byproducts, such as molasses, or directly from sugarcane juice, by a process of fermentation and distillation. Rum is also produced in Austria, Spain, Australia, New Zealand, Fiji, Hawaii, the Philippines, India, Reunion Island, Mauritius, South Africa, Taiwan, Thailand, Japan, the United States and Canada. Rums are produced in various grades.
Rum is a hard alcohol made from fermented sugar. This process usually includes the fermentation of the juices of the sugarcane plant, as well as of molasses and other by-products of sugar production. Rum is one of the major liquors in the world, with a history steeped in the myths of piracy, the Caribbean, and slavery. Rum may be enjoyed on its own, and perhaps on the rocks. Sugarcane, which is used to make rum. Today, rum is often commercially produced by fermenting sugar in large steel vats. Rum is used in many tropical mixed drinks. Many credit Barbados as being the birthplace of rum
Rum production begins with sugar cane. To this day, mature sugar cane is harvested by hand-grueling machete work-in many parts of the world. The cut cane is promptly transported to the mill where it is crushed in a machine. The crushing extracts the sugar cane juice from the fibrous pulp. 
Learn how to make rum at home with this tutorial. Rum is a made from by-products such as molasses which are created during the refining process of sugar from sugar cane, or the juice from sugarcane. During distillation, rum distillate runs out from the pot still as a clear liquid. It’s then aged in oak or bourbon barrels for flavor and color. The majority of these ingredients are used to make all types of alcoholic spirits. Rum’s distinct flavor is in part due to molasses. 1  25L water. 2  6-8kg sugar.
1 Common flavorings used in rums are: coconut extract (clear), sugar cane juice. 2  One common (and perhaps overall the most common) to all but white flavored rums is molasses. 3  A flavoring in gold and spiced rum is often caramel. 4  Spiced rum may have cinnamon extract (certainly tiny amounts), or honey. Often, rum is aged in toasted oak barrels for 10 years or longer to add depth of flavor and color. If you don't have the luxury of a toasted oak barrel, or 10 years' time, you can safely soak your rum in toasted oak chips for three weeks to impart a signature taste.
Four Parts: Making the Mash Fermentation Distillation Finishing off the Rum. This is an instruction set detailing how to make rum at home. It takes about 4-10 days to complete. This instruction set includes instructions for making rum, a link for making a reflux still of your own, and a link for dilution of the final product. Often, rum is aged in toasted oak barrels for 10 years or longer to add depth of flavor and color. If you don't have the luxury of a toasted oak barrel, or 10 years' time, you can safely soak your rum in toasted oak chips for three weeks to impart a signature taste.