Terminating an employee because of gender, race, religion, marital status, or age is illegal. Additionally, firing someone for personal reasons, without any valid reason to back up your decision, will likely result in a wrongful termination lawsuit. Firing someone is never easy, no matter what the reason. Even if you will be glad to see the back of an employee, the process can be difficult. You want to make sure that everything you do is in accordance with company policy, and in compliance with federal and state laws.
In some situations, employees can be fired without warning, and in others, they cannot. Whether an employee can be legally terminated without warning will mainly depend on the type of employment contract he's under. This also means they can be let go by their employers at any time. Therefore, employers can terminate the employment of any employee, at any time, and without warning, as long as doing so doesn't break any laws.
Answer: If you are an at-will employee, you can be fired or demoted on a whim, without warning, for no reason at all, or even for a false reason. Of all the legal concepts that impact the lives of average people, the concept of at-will employment is without a doubt the most misunderstood. For the 100th time on this page, an employer does not need a reason to fire you if you are an at-will employee. Ethically, if you were nice enough to give notice, the employer should not do this to you, but there is nothing to prevent it.
If the clause gave you a valid reason to believe you would receive notice before being fired, or that you would continue at the job for some period of time into the future, firing you without notice may be in violation of that contract, and thus an illegal action on the part of your employer. An employer is not required to give you any notice before firing you from your job, provided that there is no specific agreement or understanding within your employment arrangement that says he must do so.
When employees are hired under the condition of at-will employment, this means they can quit at any time. This also means they can be let go by their employers at any time. Therefore, employers can terminate the employment of any employee, at any time, and without warning, as long as doing so doesn't break any laws.
Fire a employee without any reason is not good and every employee (who is fired) have rite to know what is the reason behind it and law that can help him to sue his/her boss. This article helps me to know all rites of an employee. 
If the employer decides to fire an employee without warning, and the situation is legally justified, some steps should first be taken. First, the employer needs to take a step back and thoroughly analyze the situation. He should look at it from all angles and make sure this is the best decision. This also means they can be let go by their employers at any time. Therefore, employers can terminate the employment of any employee, at any time, and without warning, as long as doing so doesn't break any laws.
Regarding the first of these two exceptions, the law states that an employee may not be fired as an act of discrimination. While your employer does not usually have to give a reason for firing you, you do have the right to question the firing if you feel that the act was based on some form of discrimination. An employer is not required to give you any notice before firing you from your job, provided that there is no specific agreement or understanding within your employment arrangement that says he must do so.
Indeed, the law is exactly the opposite. Here is the simple rule, and it may challenge your fundamental understanding of employment. If there is no agreement to the contrary, an employer does not need any reason to fire you. You can be fired on the complete whim of your employer. This is called at-will employment. Just as you are free to leave a job whenever you please, the employer can fire you whenever he, she or it pleases. For the 100th time on this page, an employer does not need a reason to fire you if you are an at-will employee. Ethically, if you were nice enough to give notice, the employer should not do this to you, but there is nothing to prevent it.
For example, in many states, it is permissible to fire someone because of sexual orientation.). If there is no contract, then an employee is an “employee at will.” As the term implies, an employee at will works at the will—or whim, if you prefer—of the employer. An employer may fire an employee at will at any time, for any reason, without notice. Since employment at will is literally at will, an employer may fire someone for behavior that the person was previously allowed to do; it is completely at the employer’s discretion. However, as per 2), above, if employee A is fired for doing things that employees B through G do, and the only difference is employee A’s race, sex, religion, etc., then there may be a discrimination claim against