Golgi Apparatus. A major organelle in most eukaryotic cells is the structure of membrane-bound sacs called the Golgi apparatus (or Golgi body, Golgi complex, dictyosome). It acts to process and package the macromolecules such as proteins and lipids that are synthesized by the cell. It has been likened to the cell's post office. A major function is the modifying, sorting and packaging of proteins for secretion. It is also involved in the transport of lipids around the cell, and the creation of lysosomes. The sacs or folds of the Golgi apparatus are called cisternae.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Vesicles come from rough ER and the golgi apparatus. They are made of membrane. There are two different types of vesicles: 1. Take modified materials from golgi or rough ER to other parts of the cell. 2. Take secretory materials (usually proteins) from the golgi apparatus to the cell wall. They release the materials to be secreted from the cell. They then join with the plasma membrane. 
Morphologically the Golgi is composed of flattened membrane-enclosed sacs (cisternae) and associated vesicles (Figure 9.22). A striking feature of the Golgi apparatus is its distinct polarity in both structure and function. Proteins from the ER enter at its cis face (entry face), which is convex and usually oriented toward the nucleus. They are then transported through the Golgi and exit from its concave trans face (exit face).
The Golgi apparatus, or Golgi complex, functions as a factory in which proteins received from the ER are further processed and sorted for transport to their eventual destinations: lysosomes, the plasma membrane, or secretion. A striking feature of the Golgi apparatus is its distinct polarity in both structure and function. Proteins from the ER enter at its cis face (entry face), which is convex and usually oriented toward the nucleus. They are then transported through the Golgi and exit from its concave trans face (exit face).
The Golgi apparatus (/ˈɡoʊldʒiː/), also known as the Golgi complex, Golgi body, or simply the Golgi, is an organelle found in most eukaryotic cells. It was identified in 1897 by the Italian physician Camillo Golgi and named after him in 1898. Part of the cellular endomembrane system, the Golgi apparatus packages proteins into membrane-bound vesicles inside the cell before the vesicles are sent to their destination.
The Golgi body receives proteins and amino acids from the Endoplasmic Reticulum (ER) and packages them in vesicles and sends them out to other areas of the cell where they are needed. It is often called the processing center of the cell. It was identified in 1897 by the Italian physician Camillio Golgi and named after him. The function of the Golgi is to make proteins for the cell. The Golgi apparatus job is to send the packages elsewhere in the cell or to the outside
The Golgi Apparatus is an organelle found in most Eukaryotic cells. It was identified in 1897 by the Italian physician Camillio Golgi and named after him. The function of the Golgi is to make proteins for the cell. The Golgi apparatus job is to send the packages elsewhere in the cell or to the outside of the cell.