A measure of volume used primarily to measure the quantity of firewood. Legally, a cord is a stack eight feet long by four feet high by four feet deep. However, a cord was often considered to be a stack eight feet long, four feet high, and as deep as the length of the sticks of firewood, although that is a dictionary definition of a Rick. A Cord-foot is oneeighth cord or a stack four feet high, four feet long, and one foot deep. 
A measure of volume used primarily to measure the quantity of firewood. Legally, a cord is a stack eight feet long by four feet high by four feet deep. However, a cord was often considered to be a stack eight feet long, four feet high, and as deep as the length of the sticks of firewood, although that is a dictionary definition of a Rick. A Cord-foot is oneeighth cord or a stack four feet high, four feet long, and one foot deep. Often, even if the wood was not intended for sale, it would be initially stacked and measured as it was cut in order to judge when there was enough to last the winter.
Ask ten different experts the difference between piping and cording and you might get ten different answers. however, you can be sure it does NOT have anything to do with bagpipes or comfortable pants. Piping and cording are the outlines of home decor. They provide a coordinating or contrasting edge along the seams of slip covers, cushions, pillows and more. You simply sew the piping or cording into your seam and it gives a professionally finished look. Some home dec professionals prefer the term welting when referring to this feature on pillows, cushions and the like, because they feel piping belongs to the world of garment sewing. Take your pick
Pseudo Cording: Pseudo cording pres-ents as a thick band of scar tissue within the axilla after mastectomy with or without reconstruction. As with axillary cording, it limits overhead reach, shoulder scaption, flexion and hand behind head reaching. 5 The most frequent onset of cording causing pain and movement restriction is docu-mented between the 1st and 8th weeks post axillary node removal though, it can occur after this initial surgical recovery period.
With cording, it's possible to have one large cord or several distinct, smaller cords running down the arm. These cords usually start near the site of any scarring in the underarm region and extend down the inner arm to the inside of the elbow. Sometimes they can continue all the way down to the palm of your hand. Save as Favorite. Axillary web syndrome (AWS), also known as cording, sometimes develops as a side effect of sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB) or axillary lymph node dissection (ALND). Both procedures involve removing just a few (SLNB) or many (ALND) of the axillary, or underarm, lymph nodes
Cording of the forearm and wrist occurs less often but the origin of the cords is still within the axillary region. As with axilla to upper arm and cubital fossa cording, range of movement limitations include the shoul-der, scapula, and elbow, but now also involve the forearm and wrist. 5 The most frequent onset of cording causing pain and movement restriction is docu-mented between the 1st and 8th weeks post axillary node removal though, it can occur after this initial surgical recovery period.
Cording Printer friendly version Definition: Cording is a type of communication taking place in energy level not strictly physical between two or more people. The most basic form of cording is between a newborn child and its mother. There is an energy cord between the child s first chakra at the base of his spine and the mother s first chakra at the base of her spine. At times, the cord can be so intrusive that it can cause an intense headache, stomachache or other physical distress especially if it has been in place for a long period of time. It is important to remember that you are never a victim of cording.
De-cording is a simple mental exercise that is best done at the end of the day or after much interaction with other people. Or, it can be a specific exercise to cope with an intrusive individual. Sometimes you will find that you can t get someone out your mind. At times, the cord can be so intrusive that it can cause an intense headache, stomachache or other physical distress especially if it has been in place for a long period of time. It is important to remember that you are never a victim of cording.
Because of the cord inside, many home decor experts will refer to this as cording. Whatever you like to call piping, you can get it several different ways. You can purchase it ready-made, though your color choice will be limited. You simply sew the piping or cording into your seam and it gives a professionally finished look. Some home dec professionals prefer the term welting when referring to this feature on pillows, cushions and the like, because they feel piping belongs to the world of garment sewing.