All rights reserved. The lungs are a pair of spongy, air-filled organs located on either side of the chest (thorax). The trachea (windpipe) conducts inhaled air into the lungs through its tubular branches, called bronchi. The bronchi then divide into smaller and smaller branches (bronchioles), finally becoming microscopic. The bronchioles eventually end in clusters of microscopic air sacs called alveoli.
The lungs are covered by a thin tissue layer called the pleura. The same kind of thin tissue lines the inside of the chest cavity -- also called pleura. A thin layer of fluid acts as a lubricant allowing the lungs to slip smoothly as they expand and contract with each breath. The trachea (windpipe) conducts inhaled air into the lungs through its tubular branches, called bronchi. The bronchi then divide into smaller and smaller branches (bronchioles), finally becoming microscopic. The bronchioles eventually end in clusters of microscopic air sacs called alveoli.
Anatomy of the Heart. Your heart is located under your ribcage in the center of your chest between your right and left lungs. Its muscular walls beat, or contract, pumping blood to all parts of your body. The size of your heart can vary depending on your age, size, and the condition of your heart. 
Get the Latest health and medical information delivered direct to your inbox! The lungs are a pair of spongy, air-filled organs located on either side of the chest (thorax). The trachea (windpipe) conducts inhaled air into the lungs through its tubular branches, called bronchi. The bronchi then divide into smaller and smaller branches (bronchioles), finally becoming microscopic. Between the alveoli is a thin layer of cells called the interstitium, which contains blood vessels and cells that help support the alveoli. The lungs are covered by a thin tissue layer called the pleura. The same kind of thin tissue lines the inside of the chest cavity -- also called pleura.
The lungs are located in the chest on either side of the heart in the rib cage. They stretch from close to the backbone in the rib cage, and rest on the diaphragm. The left lung shares space with the heart, with an angular notch in its anterior border called the cardiac notch. They are situated within the thoracic cavity of the chest. The right lung is bigger than the left lung, as the left lung shares space in the chest with the heart. The lungs together weigh approximately 1.3 kilograms (2.9 lb), with the right lung weighing more than the left.
Diagram of the Lungs. Introduction to diagram of the lungs. Lungs are large cone shaped organs located either side of the heart and human has two lungs, a right and a left and are not identical to each other as right lung is slightly larger than the left. Diagram of the Lungs-Alveoli. The trachea divides into the two major bronchi, one for each lung. The bronchi then split in to bronchioles which go deeper in to the lungs. The bronchioles further divides to become terminal bronchioles that will then divide again to form respiratory bronchioles.
1 It can identify air or fluid in the chest, fluid in the lung, pneumonia, masses, foreign bodies, and other problems. 2  Computed tomography (CT scan): A CT scan uses X-rays and a computer to make detailed pictures of the lungs and nearby structures. 1 Chest X-ray: An X-ray is the most common first test for lung problems. 2  It can identify air or fluid in the chest, fluid in the lung, pneumonia, masses, foreign bodies, and other problems. 3
The respiratory system of the upper abdomen and chest includes the structures involved in the vital delivery of atmospheric air and the exchange of gases between the body and atmospheric air. Atmospheric air enters the body through the mouth and nose and arrives in the chest through the trachea, or windpipe. The trachea is a large open tube lined with rings of cartilage. The cartilage of the trachea provides a flexible rigidity that maintains an open airway to and from the lungs at all times.
The lungs are the primary organs of respiration in humans and many other animals. Humans have two lungs, a right lung and a left lung. They are situated within the thoracic cavity of the chest. The right lung is bigger than the left lung, as the left lung shares space in the chest with the heart. The lungs together weigh approximately 1.3 kilograms (2.9 lb), with the right lung weighing more than the left.
Your lungs and linked blood vessels deliver oxygen to your body and remove carbon dioxide from your body. Your lungs lie on either side of your breastbone and fill the inside of your chest cavity. Your left lung is slightly smaller than your right lung to allow room for your heart. 