OF MICE AND MEN ENDING? At the end of the book Of Mice and Men, after George shoots Lennie, he and Slim walk off and Carlson and Candy-one of them says something like What do suppose is eating them?...I didn't understand that part. 
How does John Steinbeck make the ending of Of Mice and Men effective? The ending of the novel Of Mice and Men is very moving. George shoots Lennie in order to save him from being painfully killed by Curley or being put into an asylum or prison for murdering Curley's wife. 
(Answer #2). John Steinbeck's Of Mice and Men ends with the death of Lennie at the hands of his best friend, George. Steinbeck has been preparing us for a tragic end since the beginning of the novel. Lennie's trouble in Weed, his petting of the dead mouse, and his killing of the puppy have foreshadowed his killing of Curley's wife. Posted on. (Answer #3). The ending of Steinbeck's Of Mice and Men is in accord with the characteristic naturalism of Steinbeck's novella. Like the poem of Robert Burns from which the title of the work comes, it is an uncaring universe that allows circumstances to occur.
Lennie asks him to tell the story of their farm, and George begins, talking about how most men drift along, without any companions, but he and Lennie have one another. The noises of men in the woods come closer, and George tells Lennie to take off his hat and look across the river while he describes their farm. He tells Lennie about the rabbits, and promises that nobody will ever be mean to him again. “Le’s do it now,” Lennie says. “Le’s get that place now.” George agrees. He raises Carlson’s gun, which he has removed from his jacket, and shoots Lennie in the back of the head.
The end of Of Mice and Men is about George shooting Lennie basically. he shoots him becasue he loves him and that is what is best for him. This is the main occurence in the ending. In my opinion, it was a sad endig and a bad book. George tells Lennie to look the other way. Lennie always does what George tells him. As Lennie is looking away, George pulls out the gun and shoots Lennie, his friend, in the back of the head, killing him instantly. At the sound of the gun, the men come running. Curley, Carlson and Slim see that Lennie is dead, and all know that it was George who did it
Remember to support your ideas with details from the novel John Steinbeck makes the ending of Of Mice and Men moving in many ways. The way Steinbeck presents the relationship between George and Lennie is arguably the biggest factor that makes the end of the novel so moving. In Of Mice and Men, Steinbeck describes a variety of events which make the ending of the novel so moving. Just like many men in 1930s America, George and Lennie wasn't to achieve the American dream, only to have their dream completely ruined.
Best Answer: Of Mice and Men is a novella written by Nobel Prize-winning author John Steinbeck. Published in 1937, it tells the tragic story of George Milton and Lennie Small, two displaced migrant ranch workers during the Great Depression in California. 
George plays along. Lennie then asks George to describe their farm. George does, and tells Lennie to take off his hat and to look out over the river and try to imagine the farm. As Lennie happily says they should buy the farm now, George lifts Carlson's gun and shoots Lennie in the back of the head. George takes Candy's advice: he makes sure Lennie dies at the hand of someone he loves while imagining the unattainable dream that made his life meaningful. The other men hear the gun shot. George tells Carlson that Lennie had his gun and that he shot him after wrestling it away from him.