Libya becomes independent. Libya declared its independence as a constitutional and hereditary monarchy under King Idris I. It was the first country to achieve autonomy through the United Nations (UN) and one of the first former European possessions in Africa to gain independence. A UN commissioner and the so-called Council of Ten-comprising of a representative from each of the three provinces, one for the Libyan minorities, and one each for Egypt, France, Italy, Pakistan, Britain, and the United States-were to guide the country through the period of transition to
Libya (Arabic: ليبيا ‎ Lībyā) is a country in the Maghreb region of North Africa bordered by the Mediterranean Sea to the north, Egypt to the east, Sudan to the southeast, Chad and Niger to the south, and Algeria and Tunisia to the west. The three traditional parts of the country are Tripolitania, Fezzan and Cyrenaica. It is bound to the north by the Mediterranean Sea, the west by Tunisia and Algeria, the southwest by Niger, the south by Chad and Sudan and to the east by Egypt. Libya lies between latitudes 19° and 34°N, and longitudes 9° and 26°E.
On December 24, 1951 Libya gained its independence from Italy. They  won their Independence after World War 2. They were allies with  Italy and fought with them to the very … end. Then Italy decided,  since they were a major help during the war, to give them their  independence. Libya had been an Italian colony since 1912. * During Gaddafi's regime the official independence day was the 1st of September 1969 (date of his coup). Now, it's officially on the 24th of December 1951.
After Italy took North Africa from the Ottoman Empire, it ruled  Libya from 1912 to 1942, when it became occupied by the Allies  during World War II.   Libya was given i … t's independence when the Allies  returned its rule to King Idris in 1951. Libya had been an Italian colony since 1912. * During Gaddafi's regime the official independence day was the 1st of September 1969 (date of his coup). Now, it's officially on the 24th of December 1951.
On 20 March 1956, Tunisia gained its independence from France after two years of negotiations between the French and the Neo-Destour (“New Constitution”) party, which was backed by the trade unions. 
Libya gained independence in 1951 as the United Libyan Kingdom (Arabic: المملكة الليبية المتحدة ‎ al-Mamlakah al-Lībiyyah al-Muttaḥidah), changing its name to the Kingdom of Libya (Arabic: المملكة الليبية ‎ al-Mamlakah al-Lībiyyah) in 1963. It is bound to the north by the Mediterranean Sea, the west by Tunisia and Algeria, the southwest by Niger, the south by Chad and Sudan and to the east by Egypt. Libya lies between latitudes 19° and 34°N, and longitudes 9° and 26°E.
King Idris I represented Libya in the subsequent UN negotiations. When Libya declared its independence on December 24, 1951, it was the first country to achieve independence through the United Nations and one of the first former European possessions in Africa to gain independence. Libya was proclaimed a constitutional and a hereditary monarchy under King Idris.
Berbers have been present throughout the entire history of the country. For most of its history, Libya has been subjected to varying degrees of foreign control, from Europe, Asia, and Africa. The modern history of independent Libya began in 1951. Tripoli was the only city of size in Ottoman Libya (then known as Tripolitania Eyalet) at the end of the 17th century and had a population of about 30,000. The bulk of its residents were Moors, as city-dwelling Arabs were then known.
The Allies took control of Libya from Italian and German forces in 1943 during World War II, and Britain and France occupied the country until 1951. Libya had been an Italian colony since 1912. * During Gaddafi's regime the official independence day was the 1st of September 1969 (date of his coup). Now, it's officially on the 24th of December 1951.
Libya declared its independence on December 24, 1951! It was the first country to achieve independence through the United Nations and one of the first former European possessions in Africa to gain independence (Under Secretary for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs, 1). This is exactly what people in Libya had to deal with when their homes were taken over by foreigners. The two options for Libya, or a country that has been taken over, is either to just let it be or fight for independence.