1 The sciatic nerve is the largest nerve in the body. 2  Sciatica pain is typically felt from the low back to behind the thigh and radiating down below the knee. 3  Treatments for sciatica depend on the underlying cause and the severity of the pain. Sciatica facts. 1  Sciatica is nerve pain from irritation of the sciatic nerve. 2  The sciatic nerve is the largest nerve in the body. 3
Did you know the sciatic nerve is the largest nerve in the body? This is the nerve that nurses and doctors are trained to avoid when giving an intramuscular injection to a patient in the buttocks. Injury to the sciatic nerve is called sciatica, or neuropathy of the sciatic nerve. The sciatic nerve provides control to the muscles in the back of the knee and to the lower leg. It also provides sensation and/or feelings behind the lower thigh, parts of the leg and the sole of the foot. This is why damage to the sciatic nerve may cause difficulty walking, numbness and lack of sensation in the leg
This is a large nerve that runs from the lower back down the back of each leg. When something injures or puts pressure on the sciatic nerve, it can cause pain in the lower back that spreads to the hip, buttocks, and leg. Up to 90% of people recover from sciatica without surgery. It connects the lower spine to the upper thighbone and runs directly over the sciatic nerve. If this muscle goes into spasm, it can put pressure on the sciatic nerve, triggering symptoms of sciatica. Piriformis syndrome is more common in women.
1 Sciatica is nerve pain from irritation of the sciatic nerve. 2  The sciatic nerve is the largest nerve in the body. 3  Sciatica pain is typically felt from the low back to behind the thigh and radiating down below the knee. 4  Treatments for sciatica depend on the underlying cause and the severity of the pain. Sciatica facts. 1 
Video Transcript. The sciatic nerve is the longest and largest nerve in the human body, running from the lower back through the back of the leg, and down to the toes. The sciatic nerve starts as a collection of nerve fibers in the lower spine. 
The sciatic nerve is the largest and longest spinal nerve in the human body. Extending from the lumbar and sacral plexuses in the lower back, the sciatic nerve runs through the buttocks and into the thighs. It delivers nerve signals to and from the muscles and skin of the thighs, lower legs and feet.
Pain caused by a compression or irritation of the sciatic nerve by a problem in the lower back is called sciatica. Common causes of sciatica include the following lower back and hip conditions: spinal disc herniation, degenerative disc disease, lumbar spinal stenosis, spondylolisthesis, and piriformis syndrome. It is the longest and widest single nerve in the human body, going from the top of the leg to the foot on the posterior aspect. The sciatic nerve provides the connection to the nervous system for nearly the whole of the skin of the leg, the muscles of the back of the thigh, and those of the leg and foot.
Sciatic nerve. The sciatic nerve is the dominant nerve that innervates the lower back and the lower extremities. It travels from the lower spine, through the pelvis, and down each leg. It is the longest and widest nerve in the human body. 
But this doesn't always involve the sciatic nerve. In many cases, back pain is the result of overextending or straining the muscles in the lower back. What most often sets sciatica apart is the way the pain radiates down the leg and into the foot. It may feel like a bad leg cramp that lasts for days. It connects the lower spine to the upper thighbone and runs directly over the sciatic nerve. If this muscle goes into spasm, it can put pressure on the sciatic nerve, triggering symptoms of sciatica. Piriformis syndrome is more common in women.