Steroid hormones and thyroid hormone are lipid soluble. All other amino acid–derived hormones are water soluble. Hydrophobic hormones are able to diffuse through the membrane and interact with an intracellular receptor. In contrast, hydrophilic hormones must interact with cell membrane receptors.
1 Steroid hormones pass through the cell membrane of the target cell. 2  The steroid hormone binds with a specific receptor in the cytoplasm. 3  The receptor bound steroid hormone travels into the nucleus and binds to another specific receptor on the chromatin.
An intracellular hormone receptor is located within the cell. A hydrophobic hormone diffuses through the cell membrane and binds to the intracellular hormone receptor, which may be in the cytosol or in the cell nucleus. This hormone–receptor complex binds to a segment of DNA.
• Lipophilic Hormones (Hydrophobic Hormones): •Hormones that are not soluble in aqueous medium, but soluble in lipid; •They can easily cross the cell membrane, •Thus, they can enter target cells and bind to intracellular receptors to carryout their action; •Examples: Thyroid hormones, Steroid hormones;
With the exception of the thyroid hormone receptor, the receptors for amino acid-derived and peptide hormones are located in the plasma membrane. Receptor structure is varied: some receptors consist of a single polypeptide chain with a domain on either side of the membrane, connected by a membrane-spanning domain.
Hormone 2 is a cholesterol-derived hormone, so it can freely cross the plasma and nuclear membranes. Within the nucleus, you need to add a signal receptor molecule. When this molecule interacts with hormone 2, it shuts down the transcription of substance Y.
Steroid hormones cause changes within a cell by first passing through the cell membrane of the target cell. Steroid hormones, unlike non-steroid hormones, can do this because they are fat-soluble. Cell membranes are composed of a phospholipid bilayer which prevents fat-insoluble molecules from diffusing into the cell.
Hormones that bind to this type of receptor must be able to cross the cell membrane. Steroid hormones are derived from cholesterol and therefore can readily diffuse through the lipid bilayer of the cell membrane to reach the intracellular receptor ([link]).
Adrenaline, noradrenaline, and the peptide hormones do not enter the target cell. Instead, they bind to a receptor on the membrane surface. The receptor extends through the membrane, and when the outside portion binds to the hormone, the inside portion of the receptor undergoes a conformation change.