Muscle tissue is a soft tissue that composes muscles in animal bodies, and gives rise to muscles' ability to contract. This is opposed to other components or tissues in muscle such as tendons or perimysium. It is formed during embryonic development through a process known as myogenesis. Muscle tissue varies with function and location in the body. In mammals the three types are: skeletal or striated muscle; smooth or non-striated muscle; and cardiac muscle, which is sometimes known as semi-striated. 1 Smooth muscle, neither striated in structure nor under voluntary control, is found within the walls of organs and structures such as the esophagus, stomach, intestines, bronchi, uterus, urethra, bladder, blood vessels, and the arrector pili in the skin (in which it controls erection of body hair).
Share. Adipose tissue is a type of connective tissue composed of fat storing cells that harvest and utilize the energy in fats. White adipose tissue stores energy and helps to insulate the body, while brown adipose and beige adipose burn energy and generate heat. Connective tissue supports and binds other tissues of the body. Examples of connective tissue include adipose, cartilage, bone, tendons, and blood.
Muscle tissue is made of excitable cells that are capable of contraction. Of all of the different tissue types (muscle, epithelial, connective, and nervous), muscle tissue is the most abundant in most animals. There are three major types of muscle tissue: 1  Cardiac Muscle. 2  Cardiac muscle is so named because it is found in the heart. 3  Cells are joined to one another by intercalated discs which allow the synchronization of the heart beat.
Muscle is a soft tissue found in most animals. Muscle cells contain protein filaments of actin and myosin that slide past one another, producing a contraction that changes both the length and the shape of the cell. 
Opinions from WikiAnswers contributors:   Connective tissue is most abundant and widely distributed tissues in the body.   Depending on the country, fat....   collage … n, a protein, is the most abundant. connective tissue-is the most wide spread and abundant it forms the suporting network for the organs of the body. Bone is a dense form of connective tissue.
Skeletal Muscle Research-The Most Abundant Tissue in the Human Body. Skeletal muscle is the most abundant of the human body's tissues. It consists of thread-like cells-the longest can be up to 30 cm long and 0.15 mm thick-that are bound together into strands by collagen filaments. In turn, these strands weave themselves into cords, bundles and sheets of pliable tissue. 
Connective Tissue This is the most widespread and abundant type of tissue in the human body. Its function is primarily to support, anchor and connect various parts of the body. Areolar connective tissue is the most widespread connective tissue of the body. It is used to attach the skin to the underlying tissue. It also fills the spaces between various organs and thus holds them in place as well as cushions and protects them. It also surrounds and supports the blood vessels.
The most abundant fiber in connective tissues is a tough protein called collagen. Tendons, ligaments, and the white stringy tissue (fascia) seen in some cuts of meat are composed almost entirely of collagen, as is leather, which consists of the connective tissue layer (dermis) of animal skins. Photo by: Alila. The human body is composed of just four basic kinds of tissue: nervous, muscular, epithelial, and connective tissue. Connective tissue is the most abundant, widely distributed, and varied type. It includes fibrous tissues, fat, cartilage, bone, bone marrow, and blood.
Explore the four main categories of tissues found in the body. These tissues include epithelial tissue, connective tissue, muscle tissue, and nervous tissue. Connective tissue supports and binds other tissues of the body. Examples of connective tissue include adipose, cartilage, bone, tendons, and blood.