There are varieties of the diet as well: an ovo-vegetarian diet includes eggs but not dairy products, a lacto-vegetarian diet includes dairy products but not eggs, and an ovo-lacto vegetarian diet includes both eggs and dairy products. A vegan diet excludes all animal products, including eggs, dairy, beeswax and honey. One of the main differences between a vegan and a typical vegetarian diet is the avoidance of both eggs and dairy products such as milk, cheese, butter and yogurt. Ethical vegans do not consume dairy or eggs because they state that their production causes the animal suffering and/or a premature death.
Veganism is a type of vegetarian diet that excludes meat, eggs, dairy products and all other animal-derived ingredients. Many vegans also do not eat foods that are processed using animal products, such as refined white sugar and some wines. 
Vegetarianism in a Nutshell. The basics: Vegetarians do not eat meat, fish, and poultry. Vegans are vegetarians who abstain from eating or using all animal products, including milk, cheese, other dairy items, eggs, honey, wool, silk, or leather.
1 Lacto-ovo-vegetarians eat both dairy products and eggs; this is the most common type of vegetarian diet. 2  Lacto-vegetarians eat dairy products but avoid eggs. 3  Vegans do not eat dairy products, eggs, or any other products which are derived from animals. There are different types of vegetarian: 1  Lacto-ovo-vegetarians eat both dairy products and eggs; this is the most common type of vegetarian diet. 2  Lacto-vegetarians eat dairy products but avoid eggs.
The term vegetarian generally means a person who does not consume animal products; this includes land and sea animals. Most vegetarians generally do consume eggs and dairy products (milk products). Somebody who does not consume any animal protein at all, not even eggs, dairy, or honey, is a vegan. Some people call themselves vegetarians, but they consume fish.
Vegetarians do not eat meat, fish or poultry, but might eat dairy products such as cheese, eggs, yogurt or milk. Vegetarians are not as predictable in their beliefs, as there are many reasons to become vegetarian that don’t necessarily include altruism as a primary motive. A vegan will generally not use any product made from animals, including silk. An ovo-vegetarian will eat eggs, while a vegan will not. Cattle consume more protein in grains than they deliver in meat. A vegan won't wear any clothing made of leather, unless it's special vegan leather that's made without animal products.
Lacto-vegetarian is used to describe a type of vegetarian who does not eat eggs, but does eat dairy products. Ovo-vegetarian refers to people who do not eat meat or dairy products but do eat eggs. Lacto-ovo vegetarian, that is, a vegetarian who eats both eggs and dairy products, is the most common kind of vegetarian. Learn more about lacto-ovo vegetarianism here. 
A variety of vegan and vegetarian deli foods. Vegetarianism /ˈvɛdʒətɛəriənɪzəm/ is the practice of abstaining from the consumption of meat (red meat, poultry, seafood and the flesh of any other animal), and may also include abstention from by-products of animal slaughter. One of the main differences between a vegan and a typical vegetarian diet is the avoidance of both eggs and dairy products such as milk, cheese, butter and yogurt. Ethical vegans do not consume dairy or eggs because they state that their production causes the animal suffering and/or a premature death.