Bare-root peonies are best planted in the fall because it allows some feeder roots to form, helping the plant to get a good start in spring. Planting bare-root peonies in spring will stress the plants more, and they will take longer to establish. If your peonies are spaced correctly, they don't usually need to be divided for 10 to 15 years. You'll know if they are crowded because they won't bloom well. But if the clump becomes crowded, division of the clump is recommended. You'll have to dig up the plant and separate the tubers.
Peonies are hardy flowering plants that need little care and live through severe winters. After becoming established in a garden, Peonies bloom each spring for many years. Peonies are also extensively grown as ornamental plants for their very large, often scented cut flowers. Varieties of Peonies include: 1  Chinese cut flower Peonies, with large double flowers in shades of red, pink, and white. 2  Semi-double Peonies, characterized by several rows of petals and a center of petals mixed with stamens.
Peony. Paeonia. Perhaps the best-loved perennials, herbaceous peonies belong in almost every garden. Their sumptuous flowers -- single, semidouble, anemone centered or Japanese, and fully double -- in glorious shades of pinks and reds as well as white and yellow announce that spring has truly arrived.
Peonies generally bloom for about 7 weeks in the spring. In some cases they will bloom again, but not with the vigor of the initial show of color. A tree peony can get 2 blooming periods, one early and one a few weeks later; this means you have a grafted tree peony. If your peonies are spaced correctly, they don't usually need to be divided for 10 to 15 years. You'll know if they are crowded because they won't bloom well. But if the clump becomes crowded, division of the clump is recommended. You'll have to dig up the plant and separate the tubers.
Lovely and romantic, fresh cut peony flowers are showy and fragrant with large heads and a lavish petal count. Often difficult to find year round, FiftyFlowers.com has a unique yearlong peony program that allows you to buy peonies no matter the month! 
The best time to transplant peonies is in the early fall, when the plants are becoming dormant. If you do transplant them this year, they will not bloom the following spring; unfortunately, it will take up to 2 to 3 years for the plants to recover before blooming in their new spot. If your peonies are spaced correctly, they don't usually need to be divided for 10 to 15 years. You'll know if they are crowded because they won't bloom well. But if the clump becomes crowded, division of the clump is recommended. You'll have to dig up the plant and separate the tubers.
The most striking peony flowers are the highly fragrant, massive doubles, usually pink, red (for example, 'Red Charm') or white. Other colors and flower types do exist, however. There's even a hybrid with yellow flowers. Peony plants bloom in late spring or early summer. Planting Peony Plants: Peony plants are growable in zones 2-9. Plant bare-root peony plants in fall. All you'll see is a crown with roots dangling beneath it. Dig a shallow hole, spread the roots apart and set the peony plant in the hole. Take note of the buds, which look like the eyes on potatoes.
Slide show: 20 gorgeous peonies. What's new: Itoh, or intersectional, hybrids are crosses between herbaceous and tree peonies. They grow to 3½ feet tall; pump out flowers in shades of lavender, pink, copper, yellow, or cream; and bloom over a longer period than standard herbaceous types. 
Peonies produce large, often fragrant flowers. Blooming in late Spring and early summer, Peonies come in shades of red to white or yellow. Peonies are native to Asia, Southern Europe and Western North America. Varieties of Peonies include: 1  Chinese cut flower Peonies, with large double flowers in shades of red, pink, and white. 2  Semi-double Peonies, characterized by several rows of petals and a center of petals mixed with stamens.
Peonies can be classified by both plant growth habit and flower type. Plant growth types are Herbaceous (nonwoody), Tree (shrub), and Itoh (or Intersectional), which is intermediate between herbaceous and tree forms. In winter herbaceous peonies die back to their underground parts, whereas tree peonies lose their leaves but retain viable woody stems above ground.