Anesthesia is a way to control pain during a surgery or procedure by using medicine called anesthetics. It can help control your breathing, blood pressure, blood flow, and heart rate and rhythm. Anesthesia may be used to: 1  Relax you. 2  Block pain. 3  Make you sleepy or forgetful. 4  Make you unconscious for your surgery. 1 Epidural and spinal anesthesia. 2  This is a shot of anesthetic near the spinal cord and the nerves that connect to it. 3  It blocks pain from an entire region of the body, such as the belly, hips, or legs. 4  General anesthesia affects your brain and the rest of your body.
Here are some tips to help you prepare: 1  Know when to stop eating and drinking. 2  If you take any medicines regularly, ask your doctor or nurse about changes to your medicine routine for the day before or the day of your surgery. 3  Try to stay calm. 1 Know when to stop eating and drinking. 2  If you take any medicines regularly, ask your doctor or nurse about changes to your medicine routine for the day before or the day of your surgery. 3  Try to stay calm. 4  Many people are nervous before they have anesthesia and surgery.
1 Regional anesthesia blocks pain to a larger part of your body. 2  You may also get medicine to help you relax or sleep. 3  Types of regional anesthesia include: 4  Peripheral nerve blocks. 5  This is a shot of anesthetic to block pain around a specific nerve or group of nerves. 1 Epidural and spinal anesthesia. 2  This is a shot of anesthetic near the spinal cord and the nerves that connect to it. 3  It blocks pain from an entire region of the body, such as the belly, hips, or legs. 4  General anesthesia affects your brain and the rest of your body.
Anesthesia is a way to control pain during a surgery or procedure by using medicine called anesthetics. It can help control your breathing, blood pressure, blood flow, and heart rate and rhythm. Anesthesia may be used to: 1  Relax you. 2  Block pain. 3  Make you sleepy or forgetful. But all anesthesia has some risk. For example: 1  After general anesthesia heart problems, pneumonia, sore throat, or vomiting can occur. 2  With high doses of local anesthesia, the anesthetic can go into the rest of the body and affect your brain or heart. 3  After spinal anesthesia some people get headaches.
1 If you take any medicines regularly, ask your doctor or nurse about changes to your medicine routine for the day before or the day of your surgery. 2  Try to stay calm. 3  Many people are nervous before they have anesthesia and surgery. 4  Mental relaxation methods, such as guided imagery or meditation, can help you relax. 1 Know when to stop eating and drinking. 2  If you take any medicines regularly, ask your doctor or nurse about changes to your medicine routine for the day before or the day of your surgery. 3  Try to stay calm. 4  Many people are nervous before they have anesthesia and surgery.
For example, anesthesia can interact with other types of medications, including illegal substances, so it is important to know if these are being used. Nicotine and alcohol can affect the way medications work in the body and affect heart and lung function. A patient receiving local anesthesia without sedation for a minor procedure generally does not have any dietary restrictions, but this should always be discussed with the surgeon prior to surgery. Before surgery, the anesthesiologist visits the patient to do a brief physical examination and to obtain a medical history.
But all anesthesia has some risk. For example: 1  After general anesthesia heart problems, pneumonia, sore throat, or vomiting can occur. 2  With high doses of local anesthesia, the anesthetic can go into the rest of the body and affect your brain or heart. 3  After spinal anesthesia some people get headaches. 1 Know when to stop eating and drinking. 2  If you take any medicines regularly, ask your doctor or nurse about changes to your medicine routine for the day before or the day of your surgery. 3  Try to stay calm. 4  Many people are nervous before they have anesthesia and surgery.
In most cases, patients are required to abstain from eating and drinking after midnight on the night before their scheduled surgery to reduce the chances of vomiting while under anesthesia. When a person is under general anesthesia, the body does not work normally. Certain reflexes are relaxed, and if vomiting occurs, it may enter the lungs, leading to serious complications. Every precaution is taken to avoid this occurrence. Adhering to the no food after midnight rule is essential for patient safety. A patient receiving local anesthesia without sedation for a minor procedure generally does not have any dietary restrictions, but this should always be discussed with the surgeon prior to surgery. Before surgery, the anesthesiologist visits the patient to do a brief physical examination and to obtain a medical history.