Harkers Island is a census-designated place (CDP) in Carteret County, North Carolina, United States. Harkers Island gradually became more connected to North Carolina and the world at large early in the 20th century. With the influx of new residents from the Outer Banks, a post office was opened in 1904.
….come enjoy the “island way of life”. Welcome to JoAnn Mangum Rentals. Located in historic Beaufort and Harkers Island, North Carolina, JoAnn Mangum Rentals is the perfect place for you if you are looking for a vacation home, a long term rental or to purchase or sale property in Carteret County. 
The population of Harkers Island was 1,207 at the 2010 census. Harkers Island is unincorporated and receives most public services, including law enforcement and public education, from Carteret County. A membership cooperative provides the island with electric and water services. Harkers Island gradually became more connected to North Carolina and the world at large early in the 20th century. With the influx of new residents from the Outer Banks, a post office was opened in 1904.
Carteret Atoll incorporates a scattering of low lying islands in a horseshoe shape stretching around 30 kilometers in north-south direction, with a total land area of 0.6 square kilometers and a maximum elevation of 1.5 meters above sea level. The islands were named after the British navigator Philip Carteret who discovered them in the sloop Swallow in 1767. In 1896 a Samoan-American woman, known locally as ‘Queen’ Emma Coe, bought the island for four axes and 4.5 kg of tobacco.
Formerly named Davers Ile and Craney Island, Harkers Island was occupied by Native Americans of the Coree tribe when the first European explorers arrived in the 16th century. Ownership of Harkers Island was first titled to Farnifold Green, a native of the Carolina colony, by the Lords Proprietor in 1707. Harkers Island gradually became more connected to North Carolina and the world at large early in the 20th century. With the influx of new residents from the Outer Banks, a post office was opened in 1904.
An island landform is land that is completely surrounded by water. It can be any. type of land. The island can also be surrounded different types of water such as a sea, ocean, river and lake. There are a lot of famous islands in the world. One of the most famous island landforms are the Hawaii islands. There are 100’s of islands in the State of Hawaii. They are all mostly gorgeous and tropical. Another famous island is the Galapagos Islands.
The people of the Carterets, a group of low-lying islets in the south-west Pacific Ocean, some 60 miles from the Solomon Islands, display an uninhibited belief in the supernatural. The sea is washing away our islands very rapidly.”. There are those who question the assumption that the Carterets are the victims of man-made climate change. Atoll islands can subside naturally but the phenomenon of island erosion is being witnessed across the region.
Carteret Atoll. Carteret Atoll, also known as The Carteret Islands are part of Papua New Guinea located 86 kilometres northeast of Bougainville in the South Pacific at 4°45’S, 155°24’E. The islands were named after the British navigator Philip Carteret who discovered them in the sloop Swallow in 1767. In 1896 a Samoan-American woman, known locally as ‘Queen’ Emma Coe, bought the island for four axes and 4.5 kg of tobacco.
Carteret County is a county located in the U.S. state of North Carolina. As of the 2010 census, the population was 66,469. Its county seat is Beaufort. The county was created in 1722 as Carteret Precinct and gained county status in 1739. It was named for Sir George Carteret, one of the 17th century English Lords Proprietor, or for his descendant and heir John Carteret, 2nd Earl Granville.
The most striking indication of sea-level rise, however, is at the shoreline. Carteret islanders have a name for their home, Kakahula (white sandy islands), which makes the loss of their beaches all the harder to bear. The sea is washing away our islands very rapidly.”. There are those who question the assumption that the Carterets are the victims of man-made climate change. Atoll islands can subside naturally but the phenomenon of island erosion is being witnessed across the region.