PB. I am planning to buy an external hard drive so I can store my system image on it in case my computer fails. I just want to know how much will an average system image takes up if you have a few programs worth about 20 GB. Look at your computer's hard drive in the Windows GUI. 
I used to make a repair disc on a dvd (4.7 GB), but it is not enough it only create 30% completion of the repair disc on one dvd. How many memory do I need to make a repair disc? Is it normally if you'll use a 4 dvd to burn a repair disc? A Windows Repair disk requires about 50% of a CD. You make it via the Control Panel / Backup and Restore. An Windows Image disk requires about as much space as is consumed on your system drive. It is best stored on an external USB disk. Using DVDs is not a good idea: You need too many of them, they are unreliable and if any one of them becomes unreadable then the whole image is useless. 
Does the image actually require the amount of space that is being used on the hard drive you are trying to backup? For example, I have 104GB used up on my computer right now. do i need 104GB to create a system image for backup? thanks in advance! Report Abuse. Yes, you will need to have as much space available for the image as you have on the hard drive you are making the image of. This is because an image is essentially an exact replica or copy of your hard drive. If you need an image of a 500 GB HD, the image is going to be 500 GB as well, since it's a complete copy.
How to Create and Restore System Images. To create a system image on Windows. You can then restore these backup images using the Advanced Startup Options on Windows 8 or the System Recovery option on Windows 7. These can be accessed from a Windows installation disc or recovery drive. On a Mac, you can use Time Machine create and restore system image backups. You then have a complete system image you can copy back onto a drive to restore the system state. The system image contains a complete snapshot of everything on the computer’s hard drive at any given time. So, if you have 500 GB of space used on a 1 TB drive, the system image will be about 500 GB. Some system image programs use compression to shrink the system image’s size by as much as possible, but don’t count on saving much space in this way
After nearly 2 hours(!) the system image stopped with a message that there wasn't enough space on the backup disk, and that to free up space I could delete a previous backup. It identified the current backup I was doing as a possible previous backup, and reported it had taken 17.8Gb of the external drive disk space. I just tried to do a System Image for the first time of my Home Premium 64-bit laptop to an external USB2 HD (which I have used with for several years with Acronis TrueImage for my XPH desktop PC).