The effectiveness of caffeine varies significantly from person to person, due to genetics and other factors in play. The average half-life of caffeine—that is, how long it takes for half of an ingested dose to wear off—is about five to six hours in a human body. Women taking oral birth control require about twice as long to process caffeine.
No-doz contains 100 mg per tablet. Vivarin and Dexatrim contain 200 mg per tablet. The half-life of caffeine in your body is about 6 hours. That means that if you consume a big cup of coffee with 200 mg of caffeine in it at 3:00 PM, by 9:00 PM about 100 mg of that caffeine is still in your system.
Advertisement. It only takes 45 minutes for 99% of the caffeine to be absorbed through these membranes. In humans the half-life for caffeine is anywhere from 4 to 6 hours on average, which explains why the average energy drink or coffee’s effect lasts about 4 to 6 hours.
How long does it take for caffeine to make an effect on the body? I've heard that if you drink coffee it takes about seven hours for caffeine to really take effect. That's why it's not recommended after 2 P.M., because it can affect your sleep. And if you are sleepy, a cup of coffee will not help. Follow. Well its stays in your body for about 7 to 8 hours but it takes effect right away. if you drink a cup of coffee it is speeding through your body before you are done with the first cup.
Onset and Duration. It takes approximately 15 to 45 minutes for caffeine to reach its peak levels in your bloodstream. Caffeine has a half-life of approximately five to six hours, meaning that it takes this long for its concentration in your bloodstream to reduce by half. 
Effects on the Metabolism. Taking caffeine speeds up the metabolism slightly. Usually, it is not enough to cause significant weight loss, but it is enough to provide a boost in physical activities. It can take anywhere from 3 to 12 hours for the metabolism to get rid of half of the caffeine present in the body.
Those that are regular consumers of coffee or energy drinks have figured out that it takes about 15-20 minutes before the effects of caffeine are realized. 1 Liquid is the overall best caffeine delivery method with the most caffeine being absorbed in the least amount of time to fully saturate blood plasma. 2  The effects of caffeine gum are quicker, but less caffeine is absorbed overall. 3  An advertised 100mg caffeine piece of gum would really only deliver 77mg of caffeine.
How long does it take for caffeine to be eliminated from the body? 3. 12-16 hours: Caffeine has a half-life of about 6 hours, meaning half of the caffeine will be left in your system 6 hours after ingestion, and half of whats left 6 hours later so on and so forth. Most of the caffeine will be gone after about 16 hours. Good luck! ...Read more. 1. Caffeine: If you are referring to Intravenously administered caffeine, I'd say within a few seconds of administration. If you are referring to orally ingested caffeine in the form of coffee, chocolate, soda or any other caffeine containing beverage, I'd say within 15 minutes, give or take a few minutes.
4. Variable: Usual half life of caffeine is 3-7 hours. It takes about 10 half lives for the chemical to become undetectable. Use of tobacco, birth control pills, pregnancy and some medications prolong the clearance time. 1. Caffeine: If you are referring to Intravenously administered caffeine, I'd say within a few seconds of administration. If you are referring to orally ingested caffeine in the form of coffee, chocolate, soda or any other caffeine containing beverage, I'd say within 15 minutes, give or take a few minutes.