Feminine form of ALEXANDER. Alexander the Great founded several cities by this name (or renamed them) as he extended his empire eastward. The most notable of these is Alexandria in Egypt, founded by Alexander in 331 BC.
Latin Meaning: The name Alexandria is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Alexandria is: Defender of man. American Meaning: The name Alexandria is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Alexandria is: Defender of man. English Meaning: The name Alexandria is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Alexandria is: Feminine of Alexander. In Greek the meaning of the name Alexandria is: A feminine form of Alexander meaning defender of men, used in Britain since early 13th century; it became popular after the marriage of the 1863 marriage of future King Edward VII to Princess Alexandra of Denmark. SoulUrge Number: 8. Expression
The name Alexandria is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Alexandria is: A feminine form of Alexander meaning defender of men, used in Britain since early 13th century; it became popular after the marriage of the 1863 marriage of future King Edward VII to Princess Alexandra of Denmark. SoulUrge Number: 8. Expression Number: 8.
5 5. The meaning of Alexandria is  Defending men . Its origin is  Variant of the English name Alexander . Alexandria is a form of Alexander and is generally pronounced like  ah leks AN dree ah . This name is mostly being used as a girls name. Last year it ranked 207th in the U.S. Social Security Administration list of most popular baby girl names.
Meaning of Alexandria. English name. In English, the name Alexandria means-Feminine of Alexander. Defender of mankind.. Other origins for the name Alexandria include-English, Greek.The name Alexandria is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-Feminine of Alexander. Defender of mankind.
Origin of the name Alexandria: Derived from the Greek Alexandros, a male compound name composed of the elements alexein (to defend, to help) and andros (man). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Meanings and history of the name Alexandria : | Edit. Meanings of the name Alexandria. Latin: Defender of man. American: Defender of man. English: Feminine of Alexander.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Alexandria. Alexandria (a variant of the female Alexandra) is a name influenced by the city in Egypt which was founded by Alexander the Great in 322 B.C. and named in his honor. Alexander is the Latin form of the Greek name “Alexandros”. The name’s meaning is interpreted from the Greek “alexein” which means “to defend” plus “andros” which translates to “man, warrior” in a relationship or possessive form. Hence the meaning: ‘defender of men or mankind’
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Alexandria and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Alexandria and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Alexandria is fascinating, learn more about it.
Alexandria /al-ex-an-dria/ [5 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Greek origin. Variant of Alexandra, influenced by the name of the city in Egypt, founded by Alexander the Great in 322 BC and named in his honor. Also a place name in Louisiana, Minnesota, and Virginia. Kreatif forms: Alexanaria, Alxandria.
Meaning of Alexandria: Alexandria is a feminine variant of the name Alexander, which is an English transcription of the Greek name Alexandros, which is comprised of the elements alexo I defend and aner man. Alexandria is a form of Alexander and is generally pronounced like  ah leks AN dree ah . This name is mostly being used as a girls name. Last year it ranked 207th in the U.S. Social Security Administration list of most popular baby girl names.