Zimbabwe Rhodesia had its own flag, with horizontal stripes of red, white, and green from top to bottom, and a vertical black stripe along the hoist side. The bird statue was positioned at the top of the black stripe. When the country gained independence and changed to the name Zimbabwe, the current flag was adopted. The colors used in the flag of Zimbabwe are the traditional pan-African colors. The green represents the fertility of the land and the nation's agriculture. The yellow symbolizes the minerals that are a major natural resources of Zimbabwe. Red shows the bloodshed of the war for independence in the Chimurenga, or wars.
The national flag of Zimbabwe consists of seven even horizontal stripes of green, gold, red and black with a white triangle containing a red 5 point star with a Zimbabwe Bird. The present design was adopted on 18 April 1980, when Zimbabwe was granted independence by the United Kingdom. The Zimbabwean flag flying in the breeze. The national flag of Zimbabwe is made up of five different colours: Green, gold, red, black and white. Officially, the colours of the flag of Zimbabwe carry political, regional, and cultural meanings. Green represents the agriculture and rural areas of Zimbabwe.
Zimbabwe Flag-History. Zimbabwe was formally known as Southern Rhodesia or Zimbabwe Rhodesia from 1895 to 1980. On 18 April 1980, the country was granted independence by Britain under the name Zimbabwe. A new flag with the colors of the flag of the Zimbabwe African National Union – Patriotic Front was adopted as the national flag of Zimbabwe. The Zimbabwe Bird was added to the flag by Cedric Herbert.
Zimbabwe Flag Description: The flag of Zimbabwe consists of seven horizontal stripes of equal width. The middle stripe is black and there are stripes of red, green and yellow above and below the black stripe. On the left side of the Zimbabwe flag is a white horizontal triangle with a red, five-point star in it and on top of the star there is a yellow Great Zimbabwe bird. Zimbabwe gained independence from Britain as Southern Rhodesia in 1965 and then gained independence from Rhodesia as Zimbabwe on April 17, 1980. The Zimbabwe flag incorporates the pan-African colors of red, yellow and green, which were carried by one of the nationalist groups fighting for Zimbabwe's independence. The pan-African colors are used by many African ex-colonies and stand for African independence and unity
Zimbabwe Flag-Information. The national flag of Zimbabwe consists of seven even horizontal stripes of green, gold, red and black with a white isosceles triangle edged in black containing a yellow Zimbabwe bird superimposed on a red five-pointed star in the center of the triangle. Zimbabwe Flag-Colors-meaning and symbolism. On 18 April 1980, the country was granted independence by Britain under the name Zimbabwe. A new flag with the colors of the flag of the Zimbabwe African National Union – Patriotic Front was adopted as the national flag of Zimbabwe. The Zimbabwe Bird was added to the flag by Cedric Herbert.
Zimbabwe Flag. The flag of Zimbabwe is comprised of horizontal stripes of red, yellow, green, and black, the pan-African colors. A white triangle on the hoist side holds an image of the soapstone bird in yellow over a red star. The colors used in the flag of Zimbabwe are the traditional pan-African colors. The green represents the fertility of the land and the nation's agriculture. The yellow symbolizes the minerals that are a major natural resources of Zimbabwe. Red shows the bloodshed of the war for independence in the Chimurenga, or wars.
Best Answer: Officially, the meanings of the colors on the flag are as follows: Green Stripe – represents the Country's vegetation and land resources. Yellow Stripe – represents the country's mineral wealth. Red Stripe – represents the blood spilt during the liberation struggle. 
Print this map. Zimbabwe Flag: The flag of Zimbabwe was adopted on April 18, 1980. Green, yellow, red and black are the official colors of the ZANU PF, and Pan-Africanism; the white triangle represents peace, and its black edge represents the country's new leaders. The Soapstone Bird is the national emblem, and the red star symbolizes an international outlook. Larger Zimbabwe flag.