You'll remove your toilet in two stages: first the tank, then the bowl. The messiest part is removing the old wax ring underneath the bowl; once that's done, the job is simple. Before you disconnect the plumbing, make sure you have another toilet to use while this one is out of commission. 
Drain Water. Shut off the water supply to the toilet. After the water supply is disconnected, flush the toilet several times. Flushing repeatedly will remove the water from inside the tank and most of the water from the bowl. If there is any water left in the bowl, use a container to scoop it all out. Shut off the water supply to the toilet. After the water supply is disconnected, flush the toilet several times. Flushing repeatedly will remove the water from inside the tank and most of the water from the bowl. Photo By: DK-Do It Yourself Home Improvement View original photo.
Steps. Turn off the water to the toilet. Remove the tank lid. Remove the refill tube from the overflow pipe and drain water from the tank. Use a rag to pick up any remaining water. Disconnect the water supply line. Disconnect the flapper chain. Unscrew bolts attached to the tank. Let’s get started by removing the old toilet. First, take off the lid to the tank and shut off the water. Drain the water out of the tank by holding down the flush lever. Then use a sponge or a towel to get the rest of the water out.
Take the tank lid off of the tank and put in a safe place to avoid accidently breaking it. Step 2: Turn off water supply. The water supply valve is normally located on the wall, on the left side of the toilet as you are facing the toilet. Turn the handle clockwise to turn off the water. Step 3: Remove the water in the tank. Before you begin you may want to put on some latex gloves. If you are water conscious, or are concerned about wasted water, then you will want to remove the water from your toilet tank with a small cup and a bucket before attempting to remove the tank ball.
Drain the Water. Shut off the water supply to the toilet. After the water supply is disconnected, flush the toilet several times. Flushing repeatedly will remove the water from inside the tank and most of the water from the bowl. If there is any water left in the bowl, use a container to scoop it all out. Shut off the water supply to the toilet. After the water supply is disconnected, flush the toilet several times. Flushing repeatedly will remove the water from inside the tank and most of the water from the bowl. Photo By: DK-Do It Yourself Home Improvement View original photo.
1 Find the valve behind the toilet where the water supply goes into the wall. 2  Turn the valve to the off position and then flush once or twice to remove all the water in the toilet tank. 3  Make a point to listen for running water after flushing, if you hear water you have not shut the valve off completely. 1 Turn the valve to the off position and then flush once or twice to remove all the water in the toilet tank. 2
2. Take off the tank. Use a ratchet wrench or a basin wrench to remove the nuts from the mounting bolts that hold the tank onto the bowl. There will be one on each side of the tank, and there may even be a third one in the middle. Gently lift the tank off the bowl. There is a wax ring under the toilet that seals the bottom of the bowl to the end of the drain pipe (called the toilet flange). Straddle the toilet and gently rock it from side to side in order to break the seal. Once you do, lift off the bowl and place it nearby on its side.
4. Loosen and remove the nuts on the mounting bolts that secure the toilet tank to the bowl with a basin wrench. Typically there is a bolt on either side of the tank, and sometimes there is also one in the center. These bolts are inserted through the bottom of the inside of the tank and then through the bowl. 2. Remove the tank lid and set it aside. Flush a few times to drain as much water from the tank as possible. Use a sponge or a wet vacuum to remove any water remaining in the bottom of the tank.
Step 3: Remove the water in the tank. If you are water conscious, then you can remove the water from your toilet tank with a small cup and a bucket before attempting to remove the tank ball. You could then use this water on a plant or small tree. Step 3: Remove the water in the tank. Before you begin you may want to put on some latex gloves. If you are water conscious, or are concerned about wasted water, then you will want to
1. Get rid of the water. Begin by turning off the shutoff valve on the water supply line. Then flush the toilet to remove all the water from the tank and the bowl. Disconnect both ends of the water supply tube at the shutoff valve and at the toilet tank. There is a wax ring under the toilet that seals the bottom of the bowl to the end of the drain pipe (called the toilet flange). Straddle the toilet and gently rock it from side to side in order to break the seal. Once you do, lift off the bowl and place it nearby on its side.