Description. Furtwangen is the highest town in Baden-Wuerttemberg württemberg and is located in the valley of the Upper, breg one of the two headwaters of The. Danube a flourishing, economy places of interest and a wide range of leisure and cultural activities make the clock town a popular place which is pleasant to live. in 
Furtwangen University (HFU) is beautifully located in the heart of the Black Forest and offers not only a high standard of academic programs in computer science, engineering, business, and media, but also excellent opportunities for study and leisure. Click here to watch a music video about Furtwangen University. With a student population of 4,600, HFU is small enough to support excellent staff-student relations, yet large enough to provide state-of-the-art facilities and excellent student services.
Furtwangen im Schwarzwald is a small city located in the Black Forest region of south western Germany. It belongs to the district (Kreis) of Schwarzwald-Baar along with the two more important cities of Villingen and Schwenningen. The total population of Furtwangen was 9673 inhabitants on December 31, 2004. Today, Furtwangen is a city with a more balanced industry, there are many small and medium-sized industrial companies focused in microelectronics and precision mechanics. Among the cities in Germany Furtwangen one of those with the lowest unemployment rate. There is a university of applied sciences.
Location. Furtwangen is located in the southern Black Forest region of Germany with a population of approximately 10,000 inhabitants. The ground elevation ranges between 850 – 1149 meters above sea level. The River Danube’s spring is located at the edge of town and the river flows through the middle of campus. Click here to watch a music video about Furtwangen University. With a student population of 4,600, HFU is small enough to support excellent staff-student relations, yet large enough to provide state-of-the-art facilities and excellent student services.
detailed map of Furtwangen and near places. Welcome to the Furtwangen google satellite map! This place is situated in Schwarzwald-Baar-Kreis, Freiburg, Baden-Wurttemberg, Germany, its geographical coordinates are 48° 3' 0 North, 8° 12' 0 East and its original name (with diacritics) is Furtwangen. See Furtwangen photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Furtwangen in Germany.
Marktplatz 9, Furtwangen, Germany. Dating back to the 18th-century, this traditional hotel enjoys a quiet location in central Furtwangen. Just a 3-minute walk from the German Clock Museum, it offers free Wi-Fi and a regional restaurant. 3 km. outside the centre of Furtwangen. It is a detached property. which is surrounded by a parcel of 10 ha. with meadow and forest and free view up to the mountains. The renovated house (80 m) lies on the 1st floor and has a balcony. You have access to comfortable furniture.
The German Clock Museum (German: Deutsches Uhrenmuseum) is situated near the centre of the Black Forest town of Furtwangen im Schwarzwald, a historic centre of clockmaking. It features permanent and temporary exhibits on the history of timekeeping. 
05.08.2015 | San Diego Students visit HFU summer school. In the summer of 2015, Furtwangen University is running a new summer school for engineering students from San Diego State University, USA. Nine engineering students from California will be spending 4 weeks in the Black Forest in Furtwangen. But it won't be all work. Besides completing a mechanical engineering module, they will also be gaining an insight into the culture and economy of southern Ger...