Myelopathy is a generally progressive condition that develops slowly. Cervical spinal stenosis symptoms with myelopathy may not progress for years, and then difficulties with coordination may suddenly increase. Unfortunately, the symptoms rarely improve without cervical stenosis surgery to decompress the affected area. Cervical stenosis symptoms with myelopathy. People with cervical stenosis with myelopathy may note one or more of the following spinal stenosis symptoms: 1  Heavy feeling in the legs. 2  Inability to walk at a brisk pace. 3  Deterioration in fine motor skills (such as handwriting or buttoning a shirt).
Myelopathy is a collective name for many different types of problems involving the spinal cord. When myelopathy occurs because of an accident or trauma, it is called a spinal cord injury. In other cases, myelopathy occurs as a result of a disease process, inflammation, circulatory disorder, or other problem that ends up affecting the spinal column. This kind of myelopathy may come on gradually.
Myelopathy describes any neurologic deficit related to the spinal cord. When due to trauma, it is known as (acute) spinal cord injury. When inflammatory, it is known as myelitis. Disease that is vascular in nature is known as vascular myelopathy. The most common form of myelopathy in human is caused by degenerative changes in the cervical spine, which cause chronic compression of the spinal cord. Arthritic changes (spondylosis) of the cervical spine results in narrowing of the spinal canal (spinal stenosis) and can cause compression of the spinal cord
Symptoms of myelopathy include numbness, tingling, and weakness. For example, a large herniated disc in the cervical spine could cause cervical myelopathy if it is large enough to push on the spinal cord with resulting symptoms of numbness, tingling, and weakness in the arms and possibly the legs. 
Often with cervical stenosis symptoms, it is the arm pain that prompts someone with this condition to seek medical treatment. At this point, the cervical stenosis with myelopathy is then discovered through medical history and physical exam. 1  See Spinal Stenosis Symptoms and Diagnosis. Cervical stenosis symptoms with myelopathy. People with cervical stenosis with myelopathy may note one or more of the following spinal stenosis symptoms: 1  Heavy feeling in the legs. 2  Inability to walk at a brisk pace. 3  Deterioration in fine motor skills (such as handwriting or buttoning a shirt).
Cervical spondylotic myelopathy is the most common cause of spinal cord dysfunction in older persons. The aging process results in degenerative changes in the cervical spine that, in advanced stages, can cause compression of the spinal cord. Cervical spondylotic myelopathy (CSM) is the most common spinal cord disorder in persons more than 55 years of age in North America and perhaps in the world.
Cervical Spondylotic Myelopathy (Spinal Cord Compression). Cervical spondylotic myelopathy (CSM) is a neck condition that arises when the spinal cord becomes compressed—or squeezed—due to the wear-and-tear changes that occur in the spine as we age. The condition commonly occurs in patients over the age of 50. 
Read Patient Stories. Learn About Treatment Options. Myelopathy is a term that means that there is something wrong with the spinal cord itself. This is usually a later stage of cervical spine disease, and is often first detected as difficulty walking due to generalized weakness or problems with balance and coordination. 