Glossina is the genus name for flies that fall under the common name of tsetse fly. As for species, there are a number of species. So glossina morsitans, glossina fusca … and glossina palpalis are all species of the tsetse fly. you might have to be more specific on which fly, but the scientific name of the housefly is Musca domestica.
A scientific name is the base name. A creature or item may have numerous common names depending on locality, but the scientific name will remain the same no matter where.It is … also called the genus-species name. 25 people found this useful. Eddie Christensen
What is the scientific name of a blow fly? common bluebottle fly, Calliphora vomitoria (Linnaeus) the green bottlefly, Phaenicia sericata (Meigen) i could not find the actual blow fly's scientific name, but there is lo … ts of types of blow flies which is called Calliphora. you might have to be more specific on which fly, but the scientific name of the housefly is Musca domestica.
Common greenbottle may also refer to Lucilia caesar. The common green bottle fly (biological name Phaenicia sericata or Lucilia sericata) is a blow fly found in most areas of the world, and the most well-known of the numerous green bottle fly species. 
Common Name: Horse fly, deer fly Scientific Name: Varies Order: Diptera Description: There are over 100 species of horse and deer flies known to occur in Texas. 
The house fly, Musca domestica Linnaeus, is a well-known cosmopolitan pest of both farm and home. This species is always found in association with humans or the activities of humans. It is the most common species found on hog and poultry farms, horse stables and ranches. However, under suboptimal conditions the life cycle may require up to two months. As many as 10 to 12 generations may occur annually in temperate regions, while more than 20 generations may occur in subtropical and tropical regions. Figure 2. Life cycle of the house fly, Musca domestica Linnaeus.
Common Name: Crane fly Scientific Name: Varies Order: Diptera Description: Although some people think these flies look like Texas-sized mosquitoes, and they have also wrongly been called mosquito hawks.. Crane flies are large tan-colored fragile flies with long legs. Adults and larvae do not feed on mosquitoes. 
Male Small House Flies form swarms in the summer. Females lay their eggs in animal/human feces or on dead and decaying animal tissue. For this reason, one species (F. scalaris) is also known as the Latrine Fly and is considered a potential harbinger of disease because after landing on feces, they land on food as well. Though they are half the size and much thinner than a normal House Fly (Musca domestica), the Small House Fly shares similar traits. The life cycle of F. scalaris is well-known and the maggots (larvae) develop on feces or decaying tissue.
ANSWER: The scientific name for the common housefly is MUSCA DOMESTICA LINNAEUS. A creature or item may have numerous common names depending on locality, but the scientific name will remain the same no matter where.It is … also called the genus-species name.