Before you return to work after a miscarriage, it is imperative to let your body and mind heal. If you suffer from a miscarriage, the last thing you need to do is think about work. Get some time off from work, so that you can concentrate on healing your body and getting over the loss. Usually, physical healing after a miscarriage takes about a week. In such a case, wait until your body heals and your doctor says that it is fine for you to return to work. Also, it is up to you whether you want to tell your colleagues at work about the miscarriage.
It usually takes four to six weeks for your periods to return after a miscarriage, although it can take longer to settle into a regular cycle. The length of time it takes will depend on how regular your periods were before your pregnancy. It’s worth seeing your GP for advice if your periods haven’t returned after four to six weeks and your cycle was regular before your pregnancy.
I am so sorry to hear you suffered a miscarriage i did too i lost my baby at 6 weeks and was confirmed an incomplete M/C I have just returned to work on Tuesday 3rd of June after loosing my baby last week Monday the 30th and quite frankly i think it is too soon. I lost my baby at 12 weeks, the day after I had told everyone I was pregnant. I stayed off 1 week before I went back to work. 2 months later I ended up in hospital with severe blood loss as the placenta had remained inside for that time.
HCG Levels. Most women can expect their levels to return to a non-pregnant range about 4 – 6 weeks after a pregnancy loss has occurred. This can differentiate by how the loss occurred (spontaneous miscarriage, D&C procedure, abortion, natural delivery), and how high the levels were at the time of the loss. Menstrual cycle. You may resume a normal cycle immediately with the next period 28 days after the miscarriage but there is a great personal variation, and it can take up to 6 or 7 weeks for your period to return, especially if you had a “natural” miscarriage (i.e. no D&C or tablets).
So, if you feel that you want to return to work after a miscarriage, speak to your doctor about it. The most important thing is that a woman should speak about the miscarriage and not blame herself for it. In such a case, wait until your body heals and your doctor says that it is fine for you to return to work. Also, it is up to you whether you want to tell your colleagues at work about the miscarriage.
Just as with any loss, you need time to heal. I remember going back to work after my miscarriage and D&C-I was probably out for a total of a week. My company was great, but I don't remember if they treated my time off as 'vacation time'- anything but, or as a death in the family. I don't even remember if I was paid.
I didn't return to work until 09/29/09. I naturally miscarried my baby on the 15th @ 14weeks. BUT I ended up missing additional work because I somehow had a crazy AF or experienced another miscarriage (chemical pregnancy) last week. My dr says because of my dates we will never know the difference. 
A miscarriage can often affect the couple psychologically apart from physical anxiety. Therefore, a working woman should consult her partner as well as the doctor as to when she should return to work after a miscarriage. Emotion of grief, anger, depression and guilt are normal after a loss of pregnancy. A woman post her miscarriage should resume her work gradually. She can work from home and then slowly resume her work after two to three weeks. The most common mistake women make is that they consider themselves as fit to return to work as they do not have the baby bump with them anymore.
You should make an attempt to return to work when you feel that you are physically and emotionally ready. This can vary from one woman to another. Some may feel fine within a few days, while others may take longer. Hence, there is no hard and fast rule as to when a woman should return to work after a miscarriage. In such a case, wait until your body heals and your doctor says that it is fine for you to return to work. Also, it is up to you whether you want to tell your colleagues at work about the