Humans need exercise to feel better, look better and live a healthy life. And the dogs in our lives are no different. Dogs are built for activity. In fact, stray cats and dogs can travel 20 to 30 miles (32 to 48 kilometers) a day. Their domesticated counterparts certainly don't need to cover that much ground every day, but they still need to be regularly moving on all fours. Daily exercise is good for both your pooch's mental and physical well-being.
1 Active breeds need a minimum of 30 minutes of hard aerobic exercise most days of the week, preferably daily. 2  Not all toy or small breeds get enough exercise inside the house (contrary to popular belief). 3  Pugs, for example, are prone to obesity and need much more exercise than they usually get. Generally speaking, a leashed walk around the block isn’t going to cut it. Most dogs need 30 to 60 minutes of exercise a day. Your canine pal needs enough that he’s slowed down by the time you stop. Some general rules of thumb: 1  Active breeds need a minimum of 30 minutes of hard aerobic exercise most days of the week, preferably daily
How much exercise is enough depends on your dog’s age, breed, and health. A 10-month old Irish Terrier puppy is going to need more than a five-year old Whippet (you could appropriately sing, “Wild thing, you make my heart sing” as your puppy races around the house and yard). Generally speaking, a leashed walk around the block isn’t going to cut it. Most dogs need 30 to 60 minutes of exercise a day. Your canine pal needs enough that he’s slowed down by the time you stop. Some general rules of thumb: 1  Active breeds need a minimum of 30 minutes of hard aerobic exercise most days of the week, preferably daily
Over the course of the 1st year, you can increase exercise with your Boxer, until he or she is meeting the requirements of an adult dog. A Boxer should have a brisk (20 minutes for a puppy, 30 minutes to 45 minutes for an adult) walk each day, given that the temperatures and weather are not extreme. How much water a Boxer should drink. The shorter hair on a Boxer dog also makes this breed a bit sensitive to outside elements such as extreme sun or cold and rain. When you walk/jog/play in warm to hot weather with your Boxer dog, be sure to offer plenty of water, but in small amounts at a time.
Your Boxer will be ready for exercise 30 minutes after eating and just about any time of the day. If you will be leaving the home for quite a few hours, your dog will behave better if you offer a good burst of exercise before you leave. How much water a Boxer should drink. The shorter hair on a Boxer dog also makes this breed a bit sensitive to outside elements such as extreme sun or cold and rain. When you walk/jog/play in warm to hot weather with your Boxer dog, be sure to offer plenty of water, but in small amounts at a time.
There is no set rule as to how much exercise any given dog needs on a daily basis. If your dog is a couch potato, it won’t take much to get him breathing hard and tired. My three herding breed dogs, who are very fit and well-muscled, need a good hour each and every day, at a minimum. Take a look at how much daily exercise your dog gets now and gradually increase it. Please note that I said to do this gradually.
Keep in mind, you are the “pack leader.”. Boxers have fun with, and do well in canine sports like agility, frisbee, and tracking thus do not forget to challenge your dog in other exercise arenas. Most importantly, take into account that exercise is essential to the wellbeing of you and your Boxer! The type of energy that could power a household if you could develop the manner to connect their energy level to a generator! Boxer are excellent athletes… Shawn McGovern and Blake “The BMXing” Boxer race the 2012 USA BMX Grand national track for an exhibition race. Of course Blake took the win.
Though exercise needs are based on a dog’s age, breed, size and overall health, your dog should spend between 30 minutes to two hours on an activity every day. Breeds in the hunting, working, or herding groups (e.g., Labrador retrievers, hounds, collies and shepherds) will need the most exercise. 
Boxers under the age of 2 years old have a long way to go in order to mature into muscular, well-built adults. It is not uncommon for Boxer puppies to have loose skin and part of the dog filling out and gaining a tighter coat will be a quality diet and proper physical conditioning. How much water a Boxer should drink. The shorter hair on a Boxer dog also makes this breed a bit sensitive to outside elements such as extreme sun or cold and rain. When you walk/jog/play in warm to hot weather with your Boxer dog, be sure to offer plenty of water, but in small amounts at a time.