The fictional Cartwright family lived on the Ponderosa Ranch at Lake Tahoe, and parts of Bonanza were filmed on its shores. The famous opening scene of Bonanza was filmed on location at North Lake Tahoe near Incline Village, and Lake Tahoe was among the outdoor locations used to film the weekly episodes. The house, both interior and exterior, was located on a Hollywood sound stage.
The Ponderosa Ranch was a theme park based on the popular 1960s television western Bonanza which housed the affluent land, timber and livestock-rich Cartwright family. The amusement park operated in Incline Village, Nevada, near Lake Tahoe, from 1967 until 2004.
Looking at the lakeshore, at the ranch, with the petting zoo just below. To see enlargements, please click on the photos above! Incline Village & Ponderosa RanchLake Tahoe, Nevada. This wooded clearing was once located in the center of Incline Village at 
The closed Ponderosa Restaurant on Seneca Turnpike in New Hartford, which will re-open as a Bonanza Steakhouse in the spring of 2014. (Photo by Alison Keeler). The Ponderosa Restaurant location in New Hartford is about to be re-branded as a Bonanza Steakhouse, according to the restaurant’s parent company.
The Ponderosa was on the shores of Lake Tahoe in Nevada. The nearest town was Virginia City, Nevada.
See It Now: Take a photo Tour of the Ponderosa from 2001. For fourteen seasons in the 1950s and 60s, fans watched the adventures of Pa, Adam, Hoss and Little Joe on the program Bonanza. The fictional Cartwright family lived on the Ponderosa Ranch at Lake Tahoe, and parts of Bonanza were filmed on its shores. The famous opening scene of Bonanza was filmed on location at North Lake Tahoe near Incline Village, and Lake Tahoe was among the outdoor locations used to film the weekly episodes. The house, both interior and exterior, was located on a Hollywood sound stage.
The Cartwright's ten-thousand square mile Ponderosa Ranch is located near Virginia City, Nevada, site of the Comstock Silver Lode, during and after the Civil War. Each of the sons was born to a different wife of Ben's; none of the mothers is still alive.