xml short for extensible markup language xml is a specification developed by w3c starting with the recommendation on february 10 1998 xml is similar to html in that xml uses tags to markup a document allowing the browser to interpret the tags and display them on a page however unlike html xml language is unlimited extensible which allows self defining tags and can describe the content instead of only displaying a page s content
Files that contain the .xml file extension are Extensible Markup Language files. XML files are structured text files. These files can contain a variety of content for an array of computer application purposes. The XML file format uses custom tags that allow the transmission of files across applications and organizations. XML is very similar to HTML, but with stricter rules.
Thoughtworks Go. Extensible Markup Language (XML) is used to describe data. The XML standard is a flexible way to create information formats and electronically share structured data via the public Internet, as well as via corporate networks. XML code, a formal recommendation from the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C), is similar to Hypertext Markup Language (HTML). Both XML and HTML contain markup symbols to describe page or file contents.
1 XML is a markup language much like HTML. 2  XML was designed to describe data. 3  XML tags are not predefined in XML. 4  You must define your own tags. 5  XML is self describing. 6  XML uses a DTD (Document Type Definition) to formally describe the data. What is XML? 1  XML stands for E X tensible M arkup L anguage. 2  XML is a markup language much like HTML. 3  XML was designed to describe data. 4  XML tags are not predefined in XML. 5  XML is self describing. 6  XML uses a DTD (Document Type Definition) to formally describe the data.
1 XML stands for E X tensible M arkup L anguage. 2  XML is a markup language much like HTML. 3  XML was designed to describe data. 4  XML tags are not predefined in XML. 5  You must define your own tags. 6  XML is self describing. 7  XML uses a DTD (Document Type Definition) to formally describe the data. What is XML? 1  XML stands for E X tensible M arkup L anguage. 2  XML is a markup language much like HTML. 3  XML was designed to describe data. 4  XML tags are not predefined in XML. 5  XML is self describing. 6  XML uses a DTD (Document Type Definition) to formally describe the data.
eXtensible markup language. XML is a file extension for an Extensible Markup Language (XML) file format used to create common information formats and share both the format and the data on the World Wide Web, intranets, and elsewhere using standard ASCII text. XML is similar to HTML. Both XML and HTML contain markup symbols to describe the contents of a page or file. HTML, however, describes the content of a Web page (mainly text and graphic images) only in terms of how it is to be displayed and interacted with.
Extensible Markup Language (XML) is a markup language that defines a set of rules for encoding documents in a format which is both human-readable and machine-readable. It is defined by the W3C 's XML 1.0 Specification and by several other related specifications, all of which are free open standards. 1 XSLT is a language with an XML-based syntax that is used to transform XML documents into other XML documents, HTML, or other, unstructured formats such as plain text or RTF. XSLT is very tightly coupled with XPath, which it uses to address components of the input XML document, mainly elements and attributes.
A file with the XML file extension is an Extensible Markup Language file. Other types of files may also use the XML file extension. If you know of any additional file formats that use the .XML extension, please let me know so I can update this information. The easiest way to open an XML file is to double-click on it and let your PC decide which default application should open the file. If no program opens the XML file then you probably don't have an application installed that can view and/or edit XML files.