Developers. Guidelines for developers can be found here: https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Ironic/Developer_guidelines Please note that for any non-trivial change that is not a fix for a particular bug, you have to go through the specs review process. Pixie Boots, the Ironic drummer bear. Pixie Boots is the mascot of the  Bear Metal  Provisioning Program for OpenStack, a.k.a Ironic. It was drawn by Lucas Alvares Gomes and two versions of it are available: One colored and one outlined. Feel free to use the images to make t-shirts or any other paraphernalia.
Introduction to Ironic ¶. Ironic is an OpenStack project which provisions physical hardware as opposed to virtual machines. Ironic provides several reference drivers which leverage common technologies like PXE and IPMI, to cover a wide range of hardware. The Ironic service is composed of the following components: 1  a RESTful API service, by which operators and other services may interact with the managed bare metal servers. 2  a Conductor service, which does the bulk of the work. 3  Functionality is exposed via the API service.
The Irony of OpenStack Ironic, Bare Metal for the Cloud. November 24, 2014 4:35 pm // 1 Comment // melissa. One of the projects discussed at the Kilo OpenStack design summit in Paris earlier this month is Ironic. Ironic is a program that seeks to deploy instances directly onto hardware, instead of as virtual machines. When we think of OpenStack, we tend to think of abstracting all the things, and the evolution of the hypervisor into a cloud computing environment. Ironic has another component that most projects don’t have, and that’s the Ironic conductor. The Ironic conductor is what does the heavy lifting. It is responsible for the powering on and off of hardware, and the actual provisioning and decommissioning of instances onto the hardware.
Ironic. Ironic is an integrated OpenStack project which aims to provision bare metal machines instead of virtual machines, forked from the Nova Baremetal driver. It is best thought of as a bare metal hypervisor API and a set of plugins which interact with the bare metal hypervisors. Failed to load latest commit information. Ironic is an integrated OpenStack project which aims to provision bare metal machines instead of virtual machines, forked from the Nova Baremetal driver.
Overview. The ironic module is a part of OpenStack, an effort by the Openstack infrastructure team to provide continuous integration testing and code review for Openstack and Openstack community projects as part of the core software. The module itself is used to flexibly configure and manage the baremetal service for Openstack. 
OpenStack’s Ironic project makes physical servers as easy to provision as virtual machines in cloud, which in turn will open up new avenues for enterprises and service providers. The Ironic service is composed of the following components: 1  a RESTful API service, by which operators and other services may interact with the managed bare metal servers. 2  a Conductor service, which does the bulk of the work. 3  Functionality is exposed via the API service.
Bare-metal provisioning through OpenStack’s Ironic project will give service providers the ability to offer physical servers as if they were virtual machines and open up new possibilities for organizations and service providers. Iron, meet cloud: OpenStack’s Ironic makes dedicated servers as flexible as virtualized services. Young-Sae Song. Tags: advanced micro devices, Advanced Micro Devices Inc. , Amd, bare metal, Cloud, hypervisor, ibm, Inc. , Ironic, OpenStack, provisioning, server farm, servers, SoftLayer, virtual machines, virtualization.
OpenStack bare metal provisioning a.k.a Ironic is an integrated OpenStack program which aims to provision bare metal machines instead of virtual machines, forked from the Nova baremetal driver. It is best thought of as a bare metal hypervisor API and a set of plugins which interact with the bare metal hypervisors. Pixie Boots, the Ironic drummer bear. Pixie Boots is the mascot of the  Bear Metal  Provisioning Program for OpenStack, a.k.a Ironic. It was drawn by Lucas Alvares Gomes and two versions of it are available: One colored and one outlined. Feel free to use the images to make t-shirts or any other paraphernalia.
Ironic is an OpenStack project which provisions bare metal (as opposed to virtual) machines by leveraging common technologies such as PXE boot and IPMI to cover a wide range of hardware, while supporting pluggable drivers to allow vendor-specific functionality to be added. 