Key Individuals Involved in the Battle of Appomattox Court House: Union: Lt. General Ulysses S. Grant. Confederate: General Robert E. Lee. Outcome: Union Victory. 700 Casualties. Significance of the Battle of Appomattox Court House: This was the final major engagement of the Civil War. General Lee surrendered to General Grant and the American Civil War came to an end. Overview of the Battle: Early on April 9, the remnants of John Broun Gordon’s corps and Fitzhugh Lee’s cavalry formed line of battle at Appomattox Court House. 
But Appomattox really was only the surrender of what was left of Lee's army. There were still other Confederate forces in the field. General … Joseph E. Johnston surrendered his army April 26, at Bennett Place, near Durham NC., two and a half weeks after Appomattox. Confederate General Robert E. Lee surrendered his Army of Virginia to the Union General Grant, thus ending the fighting in Virginia. Most of the other Confederate soldiers laid down their arms and went home, too.
The surrender at Appomattox Court House occurred in April 1865 when Confederate general Robert E. Lee submitted to Union general-in-chief Ulysses S. Grant, all but ending the American Civil War (1861–1865). April 10, 1865 - Union general-in-chief Ulysses S. Grant departs from Appomattox Court House, where he accepted the surrender of Confederate general Robert E. Lee, for Washington, D.C.
The Battle of Appomattox Court House which took place on April 9th 1865, was the final battle of Confederate States Army. General Robert E Lee he had no choice but to surrender, and the surrender documents were signed in the Court House. Laredo · 5 years ago. there was some fighting in and around Appomattox but what the court house area in know for is the peace treaty signed by Lee and Grant At Wilmer Mc Cleans house.
The legend was that on April 9, 1865, Confederate General Robert E. Lee surrendered to Lt. Gen. Grant, not inside the McLean House in Appomattox Court House, Va., but outdoors, in an apple orchard somewhere outside the village. Lieutenant Colonel Horace C. Porter: Eyewitness to the Surrender at Appomattox Lieutenant Colonel Horace C. Porter provides a firsthand account of Lee's surrender at Appomattox Court House in April 1865.
The Battle of Appomattox Court House was the climax of a campaign that began eleven days earlier at the Battle of Lewis’ Farm. Fact # 2: In just over one week before the battle at Appomattox Court House, Lee had lost more than half of his army. Gen. Robert E. Lee (Library of Congress). During the Siege of Petersburg from June 1864 - April 1865 Lee had about 60,000 men under his command to oppose more than 100,000 Union troops.
The Battle of Appomattox Court House, fought on the morning of April 9, 1865, was one of the last battles of the American Civil War. It was the final engagement of Confederate Army general Robert E. Lee 's Army of Northern Virginia before it surrendered to the Union Army under Lt. Gen. Ulysses S. Grant. Lee, having abandoned the Confederate capital of Richmond, Virginia, after the ten-month Siege of Petersburg, retreated west, hoping to join his army with the Confederate forces in North Carolina. Union forces pursued and cut off the Confederate retreat at the village of Appomattox Court House.
The Appomattox Courthouse was significant during the Civil War. In the spring of 1865, General Robert E. Lee surrendered to the Union Forces at Appomattox Courthouse. The surrending of Robert E. Lee signified the ending of the Civil War and the ending of the Southern states attempting to become an independent country. 
Early on April 9, 1865 the remnants of John Brown Gordon’s corps and Fitzhugh Lee’s cavalry formed a line of battle at Appomattox Court House. 
O n April 12 a century and a half ago, Confederate general Robert E. Lee surrendered what was left of his Army of Northern Virginia to Lieutenant General Ulysses S. Grant at Appomattox Court House in Virginia. Over the next month and a half, three other Confederate armies would follow suit. 