Krishna Name Meaning. The meaning of Krishna is “Black”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. The name Krishna is of Sanskrit origin, and is used in more than one countries and different languages of the world, especially Arabic speaking countries, Hindi speaking countries among others.
Meaning of Indian name: Krishna. Meaning of the name Krishna is 'Lord Krishna'. Krishna is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for females. The name number for Krishna is '8'. Click here to get the numerological analysis for the name 'Krishna'. Meaning of the name Krishna is 'Lord Krishna'. Krishna is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for females. The name number for Krishna is '8'
Krishna (/ˈkrɪʃnə/ ; Sanskrit: कृष्ण, Kṛṣṇa in IAST, pronounced [ˈkr̩ʂɳə]. ) is a Hindu deity, worshipped across many traditions of Hinduism in a variety of different perspectives. Krishna is recognized as the eighth avatar of the god Vishnu or as the Supreme God in other traditions. Krishna is one of the most widely revered and most popular of all Hindu deities. The deity Krishna-Vasudeva (kṛṣṇa vāsudeva Krishna, the son of Vasudeva ) is historically one of the earliest forms of worship in Krishnaism and Vaishnavism. It is believed to be a significant tradition of the early history of the worship of Krishna in antiquity.
A few references discussing why Krishna is called Krishna.. A selection of Srila Prabhupada 's commentaries and conversations about the name Krishna, including its Sanskrit etymology (word origin). Where possible, we've provided links for further exploring the topic or obtaining your own copy of the book quoted. If we analyze the nirukti, or semantic derivation, of the word 'Krishna,' we find that na signifies that He stops the repetition of birth and death, and krish means sattartha, or 'existence.' (Krishna is the whole of existence.) Also, krish means 'attraction,' and na means ananda, or 'bliss.'.
Worship of the deity Krishna, either in the form of deity Krishna or in the form of Vasudeva, Bala Krishna or Gopala can be traced to as early as the 4th century BC. The deity Krishna-Vasudeva (kṛṣṇa vāsudeva Krishna, the son of Vasudeva ) is historically one of the earliest forms of worship in Krishnaism and Vaishnavism. It is believed to be a significant tradition of the early history of the worship of Krishna in antiquity.
The Meaning of the Maha-Mantra. This is the Hare Krishna mantra, or maha-mantra, the great mantra for deliverance. Composed of three of the holy names of God from the Sanskrit scriptures of ancient India, it is transcendental sound vibration. It is not ordinary sound. The word mantra comes from man (mind) and tra (to free). A mantra is a sound or prayer that frees the mind from the miseries of the material world. The three holy names in the maha-mantra are Hare, Krishna, and Ram
As a name of Vishnu, Krishna is listed as the 57th name in the Vishnu Sahasranama. Based on his name, Krishna is often depicted in murtis as black or blue-skinned. Krishna is also known by various other names, epithets and titles, which reflect his many associations and attributes. The deity Krishna-Vasudeva (kṛṣṇa vāsudeva Krishna, the son of Vasudeva ) is historically one of the earliest forms of worship in Krishnaism and Vaishnavism. It is believed to be a significant tradition of the early history of the worship of Krishna in antiquity.
The meaning of the name Krishna: The name Krishna means 'all-attractive.' God attracts everyone; that is the definition of 'God.' We have seen many pictures of Krishna, and we see that He attracts the cows, calves, birds, beasts, trees, plants, and even the water in Vrindavana. If we analyze the nirukti, or semantic derivation, of the word 'Krishna,' we find that na signifies that He stops the repetition of birth and death, and krish means sattartha, or 'existence.' (Krishna is the whole of existence.) Also, krish means 'attraction,' and na means ananda, or 'bliss.'.
Means black, dark in Sanskrit. This is the name of a Hindu god believed to be an incarnation of the god Vishnu. He was the youngest of King Vasudeva's eight children, six of whom were killed by King Kamsa because of a prophecy that a child of Vasudeva would kill Kamsa.