Legless Lizard. When most people think of a lizard they think of a being with legs, but there is one lizard that defies this description and it is aptly called the legless lizard. This species looks an awful lot like a snake and it belongs to the Anguidae family, which is a family that contains 80 species.
Listed as critically endangered, the turtle population is threatened by loss of habitat, pollution and entrapment in sea life harvesting nets. Baja California legless lizard (Anniella geronimensis) is a lizard that looks like a snake. It is classified as endangered.
Most of these species are found in North and South America. The legless lizard is also known as the glass lizard and they are found in Europe in regions such as the Balkans, Istria, Bulgaria, Crimea, and even parts of southwest and central Asia.
Certain species of legless lizards are listed as endangered. Interesting Legless lizard Facts: Size of legless lizard depends on the species. Largest legless lizards can reach 2 to 3 feet in length (including the tail) and 11 to 21 ounces in weight.
The California legless lizard is just one example of many species  of legless snakes. They are true lizards.   Here is the interesting part: A legless lizard evolved from … a  certain type of lizard. A snake evolved from a now-extinct 4-legged  snake.
Legless lizards are mostly threatened by habitat loss. Also, thousands of legless lizards end up killed each year because people confuse them with snakes (they are killed out of fear).
Certain species of legless lizards have limbs but they belong to the group of legless lizards because they share similarities in the anatomy of the skull, teeth and tongue. Legless lizards have remnants of hip bones and tips of the hind legs but they cannot walk. They crawl. Legless lizards are carnivores (meat-eaters).
The Baja California legless lizard (Anniella geronimensis) is a secretive reptile that looks very much like a snake in appearance. However, both snakes and legless lizards have evolved the legless trait independently from each other.