Jehovah's Witnesses believe that the Bible prohibits ingesting blood and that Christians should not accept blood transfusions or donate or store their own blood for transfusion. The belief is based on an interpretation of scripture that differs from that of other Christian denominations. From 1931, when the name Jehovah's witnesses was adopted, Watch Tower Society publications maintained the view of Society founder Charles Taze Russell that the reference to abstaining from the eating of blood in the Apostolic Decree of Acts 15:19-29 was a suggestion to be given to Gentile converts.
What Jehovah's Witnesses Believe. Jehovah's Witnesses are told by their religious leaders that God requires them to 'abstain from blood'. Acts 15:20,29; Acts 21:25; They say the Bible is very clear about the sacredness of blood and that it must not be eaten. The Jehovah's Witnesses say eating blood is wrong under any circumstances, even in emergency situations. 1 Samuel 14:31-35. Blood has symbolic meaning in the Bible and represents life.
The refusal by Jehovah's Witnesses to accept blood transfusions appears to be motivated by faith and not by a death wish. LeRoy Grant of San Francisco, CA was told that he needed to have surgery or die. He believes in the Jehovah's Witness interpretation of the above key biblical passages. Jehovah's Witnesses (WTS) opposition to blood transfusions Biblical passages.Opposition to WTS policies. Sponsored link. Jehovah's Witness' beliefs and teachings about blood: The Jehovah's Witnesses urges its members to refuse to accept blood transfusions and to not allow them to be given to their children.
Jehovah's Witnesses believe that the Bible prohibits the eating of blood. They believe that injecting blood into their veins is the same thing as eating it. Jehovah's Witnesses don't want to die, but they are willing to make the ultimate sacrifice if necessary. 
In 1958, The Watchtower reported on a particular member of Jehovah's Witnesses who voluntarily accepted blood transfusion, contrary to Watchtower doctrine. The organization confirms that members have accepted blood transfusions, despite the imposition in 1961 of a communal shunning policy for willful acceptance. From 1931, when the name Jehovah's witnesses was adopted, Watch Tower Society publications maintained the view of Society founder Charles Taze Russell that the reference to abstaining from the eating of blood in the Apostolic Decree of Acts 15:19-29 was a suggestion to be given to Gentile converts.
Changing Standard. Jehovah's Witnesses believe that the Governing Body of Jehovah's Witnesses are directed by God's holy spirit and since they have stated that blood transfusions are wrong, then it is Gods will to reject it. An examination of the ongoing history of this teaching gives little evidence of holy direction. 1 Inconsistent-The Watchtower states God's standard is that blood must not be stored, yet allows Jehovah's Witnesses to use blood fractions derived from stored blood. 2  Double Standard-Jehovah's Witnesses use significant quantities of medical products derived from blood, but are forbidden from donating blood.
In order to correct the misinformation, Jehovah's Witnesses are providing the following statement. The Bible commands Christians to abstain...from blood. (Acts 15:20). Jehovah's Witnesses believe that it is not possible to abstain from blood and accept blood transfusions. While many Jehovah's Witnesses have died due to refusing blood transfusions, recent developments in the Watchtower Society's policy on blood indicate that individuals who face a similar crisis today may not need to sacrifice their lives to prove their loyalty to the Society.
In a later article, members were reminded that Jehovah's Witnesses do not donate blood or store their own blood prior to surgery. In May 2001, the Watch Tower Society revised its medical directives and identity cards addressing its doctrinal position on blood; the revised materials were distributed from May 3, 2001. From 1931, when the name Jehovah's witnesses was adopted, Watch Tower Society publications maintained the view of Society founder Charles Taze Russell that the reference to abstaining from the eating of blood in the Apostolic Decree of Acts 15:19-29 was a suggestion to be given to Gentile converts.