Brownian movement. n. The random movement of microscopic particles suspended in a liquid or gas, caused by collisions with molecules of the surrounding medium. Also called Brownian motion, molecular movement, pedesis. (brown'ē-ăn mūv'mĕnt)
Noun. 1. Brownian movement-the random motion of small particles suspended in a gas or liquid. Brownian motion, pedesis. motion, movement-a natural event that involves a change in the position or location of something. 1  Facebook
Brown·i·an motion. n. The random movement of microscopic particles suspended in a liquid or gas, caused by collisions with molecules of the surrounding medium. Also called Brownian movement. [After Robert Brown .]. Brownian motion-the random motion of small particles suspended in a gas or liquid. Brownian movement, pedesis. motion, movement-a natural event that involves a change in the position or location of something. 1  Facebook.
Brownian movement. n. 1. (General Physics) random movement of microscopic particles suspended in a fluid, caused by bombardment of the particles by molecules of the fluid. First observed in 1827, it provided strong evidence in support of the kinetic theory of molecules. 1. Brownian movement-the random motion of small particles suspended in a gas or liquid. Brownian motion, pedesis. motion, movement-a natural event that involves a change in the position or location of something.
Noun. 1. Brownian motion-the random motion of small particles suspended in a gas or liquid. Brownian movement, pedesis. motion, movement-a natural event that involves a change in the position or location of something. 1  Facebook.
Definition of BROWNIAN MOTION. : a random movement of microscopic particles suspended in liquids or gases resulting from the impact of molecules of the surrounding medium —called also Brownian movement. See Brownian motion defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. Medical Definition of BROWNIAN MOTION. : a random movement of microscopic particles suspended in liquids or gases resulting from the impact of molecules of the fluid surrounding the particles—called also Brownian movement.
Brownian motion is among the simplest of the continuous-time stochastic (or probabilistic) processes, and it is a limit of both simpler and more complicated stochastic processes (see random walk and Donsker's theorem). This universality is closely related to the universality of the normal distribution. The mathematical model of Brownian motion has numerous real-world applications. For instance, stock market fluctuations are often cited, although Benoit Mandelbrot rejected its applicability to stock price movements in part because these are discontinuous.
This is a simulation of the Brownian motion of a big particle (dust particle) that collides with a large set of smaller particles (molecules of a gas) which move with different velocities in different random directions. The mathematical model of Brownian motion has numerous real-world applications. For instance, stock market fluctuations are often cited, although Benoit Mandelbrot rejected its applicability to stock price movements in part because these are discontinuous.
Definition. A theory or model that is used to explain random motion. Traditionally, Brownian motion was developed to explain the random movement seen in suspended particles, but is commonly applied today to the stock market.