In fact, their fur is a mix of gray, rust, black and cream. After being wiped out in the U.S. and with only a few animals remaining in Mexico, Mexican gray wolves were bred in captivity and reintroduced to the wild in Arizona beginning in 1998. There are only about 300 Mexican wolves total in captivity. Behavior. Mexican gray wolves are very social animals. They live in packs, which are complex social structures that include the breeding adult pair (the alpha male and female) and their offspring. A hierarchy of dominant and subordinate animals within the pack help it to work as a unit
While wolves can impact prey populations, it’s usually because there are other factors involved that also stress the prey-deep snow, drought, or disease. Wolf-predator studies show that most wolves rarely eliminate their prey, but may influence the size of prey populations. As a result, Mexican wolves usually feed only a couple times a week, eating up to 20 pounds of meat at a time. A biologist, above, looks at a cow elk killed by wolves. People hunt the same game that wolves prey upon.
Mexican Gray Wolf Habitat. Mexican wolves have been released into some of the mountainous forests and woodlands within their known historic range. They eat large and small mammals, and depend on a healthy population of large ungulates (elk, deer) to survive. They obtain most of their liquids through their food. As a result, Mexican wolves usually feed only a couple times a week, eating up to 20 pounds of meat at a time. A biologist, above, looks at a cow elk killed by wolves. People hunt the same game that wolves prey upon.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Mexican wolf (Canis lupus baileyi), also known as the lobo, is a subspecies of gray wolf native to the Sierra Madre and the surrounding area of western Mexico, though its range once included the southeastern United States. Though once held in high regard in Pre-Columbian Mexico, it is the most endangered gray wolf in North America, having been extirpated in the wild during the mid-1900s through a combination of hunting, trapping, poisoning and digging pups from dens.
Living and hunting in packs, wolves are wild dogs that come from the same group as the dingo and coyote. They can reach speeds of 65 km/h (40 mph) when chasing prey and include a number of species such as the gray wolf (also known as the grey wolf or timber wolf), red wolf, arctic wolf, mexican wolf and white wolf. Read on for more interesting information and enjoy our full list of wolf facts.
The Mexican gray wolf, a subspecies of the gray wolf, is teetering on the brink of extinction in the southwestern U.S. They once numbered in the thousands, but this subspecies of gray wolf was nearly wiped out through excessive predator removal by government agencies and ranchers by the mid-1970s. 
The Mexican wolf weighs between 50 and 85 pounds, which is a little more than half the size of its northern cousin, the North American gray wolf and about the size of a German shepherd or Labrador retriever. It lives to the ripe, old age of 10. You can't name a North American land mammal that's more endangered than the Mexican gray wolf. There isn't one. Right now, there are only about 80 Mexican gray wolves in the wild and about 300 in captivity. Widespread trapping and poisoning in the early to mid 1900s nearly made them extinct.
Related Species include other subspecies of the Gray wolf (Canis Lupus) and the Red Wolf (Canis Rufus). Some would even argue that the Coyote (Canis latran) is a related species (Nowak 2002). There are currently fifteen living subspecies of the Gray wolf, including the Mexican Gray wolf. 
The gray wolves habitat needs to be a very large area that is all wildland. They also need a large number of prey in this area so they can hunt. Theses wolves can survive in many different areas. These areas include deserts, forests, mountains, tundras, and plains. 