The Cost. $2-$3 per square foot. While brick pavers are an economical choice for many, travertine pavers are a specialty paver that requires special ordering and sizing, depending on the project. On average, most homeowners can expect to spend on average about $14 per square foot for 100 square feet of space.
Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Install Brick Pavers! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Brick Paver Installation project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install Brick Pavers ranges between $9.09 - $12.48 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1.
Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Install Pavers! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Paver Installation project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install Pavers ranges between $8.31 - $11.73 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1.
Bricks and Pavers. Brick Pavers can cost anywhere from .50 cents each, or between $5-$15 per sq/ft. Brick Pavers estimated cost of installation is around $10-$20 per sq/ft. The maintenance costs are not too high, for you really only need to wash and seal your pavers every year or so. Natural Stone Pavers. Natural Stone Pavers will definitely have a higher initial cost. They are not manufactured; they are naturally formed and quarried stone, cut to size. On average you may pay $10-$30 per sq/ft for installation, depending on the type of stone you choose, the rarer the stone the more expensive.
A General Brick Pavers Price Estimate. Brick pavers are usually bought in pallets, so the cost is usually described in units of per square foot. In general, you’ll pay anywhere from $5 to $15 per square foot; this works out to $.50 to $3.00 per brick or more. Remember, this is just for the material – tack on another $5 – $10 per square foot for installation. In general, you’ll pay more for interlocking brick pavers than you will for concrete pavers, as the material and method to make the brick is a bit more expensive than for concrete. To help you out, here is some information on brick pavers prices – what you’ll usually pay and ways to get a good deal or discount on your next paver project. Note that none of the below takes into account installation costs – this is just a discussion of the cost of the material itself per brick or per square foot.
Average Cost of brick coping: $25-$30 per linear foot Paver Pool Coping This elegant fiberglass pool comes courtesy of Earl's Pools of Alabama Average Cost of Paver Coping: $20-$25 per linear foot *note: the primary difference between brick and paver coping is the type of edge the product has facing the pool. This elegant fiberglass pool comes courtesy of Earl's Pools of Alabama. Average Cost of Paver Coping: $20-$25 per linear foot. *note: the primary difference between brick and paver coping is the type of edge the product has facing the pool. Brick coping has a bull-nose or rounded edge, and paver coping has a 'factory' edge similar to regular pavers. These terms can vary according to region
If you’ve decided to use clay brick pavers for your patio, walkway, driveway, pool deck, or other home installation, you’ve made a good choice. However, pricing and budget is probably a big deal for you, and brick pavers aren’t the cheapest option available. To help you out, here is some information on brick pavers prices – what you’ll usually pay and ways to get a good deal or discount on your next paver project. Note that none of the below takes into account installation costs – this is just a discussion of the cost of the material itself per brick or per square foot.