GreenThumb treat on average 18 lawns every minute, turning them lush, green and weed free. The lawn care treatments we offer have been tailored to give you the best results for the best price and with our Direct Debit service, paying for your lawn care treatments has never been easier.
Related articles: Sprinkler System, Deck, Sod. 1  Depending on the size and location of the project, it can cost anywhere from $300-$2,500 to have a landscape designer create a detailed plan for your property.
The average cost for lawn service will depend on what exactly you sign up for. A typical estimate will include prices for a weekly lawn cut, weeding beds, a spring cleanup, trimming hedges, a fall cleanup, and a chemical program. These items may be priced individually or lumped together as a monthly maintenance price.
Careful and regular hedging, pruning and trimming of your garden is essential to its maintenance and includes roses, plants, shrubs, fruit trees and small trees. This service also includes the removal of small shrubs and trees. For large jobs your local Jim can arrange for a tree specialist to undertake this task.
The sprinkler system cost is determined by the size of the lawn and not the size of the house. Many large houses sit on top of very small lots with very little landscaping. Now sprinkler system should be designed based on your current water needs for the type of lawn and plants that you need to water.
How much does cost? 1  Depending on the size and location of the project, it can cost anywhere from $300-$2,500 to have a landscape designer create a detailed plan for your property.
Landscape Design Cost. 1  Depending on the size and location of the project, it can cost anywhere from $300-$2,500 to have a landscape designer create a detailed plan for your property.
1 Computer software programs can help you create your own detailed landscaping plan. 2  Better Homes and Gardens offers a variety of software solutions at prices ranging from $60-$500, while Your Complete Landscape and Garden Designer by Valusoft retails for $20.
Establish competitive prices in your area by calling companies in your city or county to find out how much they are paying for lawn care services. You can also have a friend who owns a business call other lawn care companies in your area to inquire about rates.
Leave clippings on the lawn. If they are excessively heavy, rake them up and remove them. Clippings contain nutrients and water, breakdown rapidly and do not contribute significantly to thatch. You can cut down your fertilizer (especially nitrogen) by 20%-35% by leaving the clippings on.