Who defines electrical work and/or what is the definition of electrical work. The reason for the question is this. We have an excavator who we are working with on a job where we are putting in campsites (Pedestals, transformers, panels, etc) and he wants to know if he can do the majority of the work. 114. Here in WV for doing electrical work, The definition of  Electrical work  Means the installation of wires, conduits, apparatus, fixtures, other appliances, equipment or systems for transmitting, carrying, controlling, or using electricity for light, heat, or power purposes.
About NEC. NEC is a family of contracts that facilitates the implementation of sound project management principles and practices as well as defining legal relationships. 
As such they legally define the responsibilities and duties of Employers (who commission work) and Contractors (who carry out work) in the Works Information. The contract consists of two key parts the Contract Data part one (Data provided by the Employer) and Contract Data part two (Data provided by the Contractor). This contract is for anyone providing a service, rather than doing any physical construction works. Designers are the most obvious party that fit into this category. Whilst they are producing a design for an employer or contractor, they would sign up and follow the clauses within the PSC.
Background [edit]. The NEC is developed by NFPA's Committee on the National Electrical Code, which consists of 19 (20 in 2008) code-making panels and a technical correlating committee. Work on the NEC is sponsored by the National Fire Protection Association
The National Electrical Code (NEC), or NFPA 70, is a regionally adoptable standard for the safe installation of electrical wiring and equipment in the United States. It is part of the National Fire Codes series published by the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), a private trade association. The NEC is developed by NFPA's Committee on the National Electrical Code, which consists of 19 (20 in 2008) code-making panels and a technical correlating committee. Work on the NEC is sponsored by the National Fire Protection A
Originally Posted by njtrombley. Who defines electrical work and/or what is the definition of electrical work. Most systems work best if they are kept simple rather than made complicated; therefore simplicity should be a key goal in design and unnecessary complexity should be avoided. 114. Here in WV for doing electrical work, The definition of  Electrical work  Means the installation of wires, conduits, apparatus, fixtures, other appliances, equipment or systems for transmitting, carrying, controlling, or using electricity for light, heat, or power purposes.
• NFPA 70E describes safe work practices for electrical construction and maintenance but not how to design or install electrical systems. • The two documents (NEC and NFPA 70E) have identical scopes and many of the same definition. They both cover “inside” wiring in buildings and similar structures. 
he NEC does not consistently define low voltages. In 110.26(A)(1)(b), voltages of not greater than 30 volts ac rms and 60 volts dc are the dividing line. Article 720 is titled Circuits and Equipment Operating at less than 50 volts.. his term and the term low voltage control system are confusing and are not defined in the NEC. Voltage is defined in Article 100 as the greatest root-mean-square (effective) difference of potential between any two conductors of the circuit concerned.