The phrenic nerve originates mainly from the 4th cervical nerve, but also receives contributions from the 5th and 3rd cervical nerves (C3-C5) in humans. 1 The right phrenic nerve passes over the brachiocephalic artery, posterior to the subclavian vein, and then crosses the root of the right lung anteriorly and then leaves the thorax by passing through the vena cava hiatus opening in the diaphragm at the level of T8. 2  The right phrenic nerve passes over the right atrium.
Right phrenic nerve. In contrast to the left phrenic nerve, the right is in contact with venous structures and descends laterally to the superior vena cava, right atrium and ventricle, and inferior vena cava before passing through the vena caval foramen to enter the abdominal cavity. The phrenic nerve is the sole motor supply to each hemidiaphragm. It also provides sensory supply to: 1  diaphragm (except the most peripheral diaphragm, which is supplied by intercostal nerves). 2  mediastinal pleura. 3  pericardium.
The phrenic nerve is a mixed motor/sensory nerve that courses through the neck and thorax to innervate the diaphragm. Arises from the ventral rami of the C3, C4 and C5 nerve roots, part of the cervical plexus. The phrenic nerve is the sole motor supply to each hemidiaphragm. It also provides sensory supply to: 1  diaphragm (except the most peripheral diaphragm, which is supplied by intercostal nerves). 2  mediastinal pleura. 3  pericardium.
phrenic. pertaining to the diaphragm. phrenic nerve. one of the paired nerves to the diaphragm that arises from the caudal cervical nerves (4-7, the specific branches varying with species), passes through the thoracic inlet and in the mediastinum and adjacent structures to the diaphragm. 1  Facebook.
Medical Definition of PHRENIC NERVE. : a general motor and sensory nerve on each side of the body that arises chiefly from the fourth cervical nerve, passes down through the thorax to the diaphragm, and supplies or gives off branches supplying especially the pericardium, pleura, and diaphragm—called also phrenic.
The phrenic nerve is a nerve that originates in the neck (C3-C5) and passes down between the lung and heart to reach the diaphragm. It is important for breathing, as it passes motor information to the diaphragm and receives sensory information from it. There are two phrenic nerves, a left and a right one. 1 The right phrenic nerve passes over the brachiocephalic artery, posterior to the subclavian vein, and then crosses the root of the right lung anteriorly and then leaves the thorax by passing through the vena cava hiatus opening in the diaphragm at the level of T8. 2  The right phrenic nerve passes over the right atrium.
Diaphragm and Phrenic Nerve. ++. The diaphragm is a large dome shaped muscle that separates the chest and abdominal cavities. The lower edge of the diaphragm is attached to the inner surface of ribs 6 through 12, the xiphoid process of the sternum and the upper 2 or 3 lumbar vertebrae (L1, L2, L3) . 
Phrenic nerve palsy has many causes, and can be caused by lesions anywhere along the course of the phrenic nerve, as it travels from the neck, to pierce the diaphragm adjacent to the pericardium. 
Phrenic nerve palsy or paralysis is the loss of the ability to move the diaphragm and to feel the sensations of the chest and upper abdomen. 