The simplest way to recover pictures from an iPhone backup is to actually restore another iPhone (or your own iPhone) from the most recent backup made. Of course this relies on you actually backing up your photos, but unless you went out of your way to not do so, you probably did. When the device restoration is finished, you can now copy the pictures from the iPhone to a computer so that you have your photos again. If you used someone else’s device for this purpose, don’t forget to restore it to their own backup when finished.
iPhone Photo Recovery. 1. You need a third-party tool to directly scan and recover pictures from your iPhone. 2. If you've synced your iPhone with iTunes, you also can regain your deleted photos by extracting your iTunes backup file.
Step 1: Run the program and connect your iPhone. iPhone Data Recovery allows you to directly scan and recover photos from iPhone 4 and iPhone 3GS. For iPhone 6 Plus/6/5s/5c/5/4s, you need to follow the 2nd solution. Run the program on your computer and connect your iPhone (eg. iPhone 4) to the computer. You'll see the main window as follows. You need a third-party tool to directly scan and recover pictures from your iPhone. 2. If you've synced your iPhone with iTunes, you also can regain your deleted photos by extracting your iTunes backup file.
Download the free trial version below to check your deleted photos before you retrieve them. Connect your iPhone to your computer and launch the iPhone Data Recovery on it, you will see the interface as follows: Choose Recover from iOS Device option, afterwords, you need to click Start Scan button. Choose Recover from iTunes Backup File option, when launching the program on your computer. Then, you'll get the interface below. Choose the latest iTunes backup of your iPhone, and click Start Scan. Being scanned, all found data are in order.
It can recover all iPhone data including: contacts, text message, photos, music, video, note, call list, booksmark and more... No matter what happened to your iPhone device, it is absolutely possible to recover deleted pictures from iPhone 4/4s/5 or your previous backup file. With all of this in mind, it is important that you should take a conservative approach to restore deleted pictures from iPhone 4/4s/5, don't use SSD data recovery tool to restore iPhone lost photos; it won't recognize iPhone and will lead to potential damage to iPhone.
-Via iCloud backup. -Without backup. The iPhone photo recovery tool introduced in the video can help you get deleted photos from iPhone with all of the three ways above, even if your photos lost on iOS 8 upgrade, jailbreak, factory restore, a failed sync etc. The free version allows you to see and recover three iPhone photos from iTunes backup. 
1 To recover photos that originally synced to your device from your computer, sync your device using iTunes on a computer. 2  To restore Photo Library (or Camera Roll) photos to an iPhone or iPod touch, the iCloud backup must be from an iPhone or iPod touch. 
b) Preview and recover iPhone photo. c) Do backup well. You can recover files from iPhone 5 directly,or recover from iTuens backup file to get back iPhone lost data. No, it can retrieve the photos just from iTunes backup if you make a backup. If you have the backup data then you can recover the deleted photos in iphone 4s.For recover deleted photos follow the below steps. +++ Steps to follow to recover the deleted photos in iphone 5 : 1. First of all turn on the iphone 5. 2. After turn on locate the backup application where you got stored
) helps to recover iPhone data with 3 methods: 1. Recover iPhone lost photos and more other important data from iPhone, the device directly without any backup. 2. Restore iPhone deleted or lost pictures from iTunes backup. 3. Retrieve deleted files including photos, camera roll and so on from iCloud backup. Just enter your iCloud account and password to scan and download the backed up files, you can use iPhone data recovery to recover the scanned files.