1 boiling: For a slightly runny yolk, boil an average sized duck egg for 6-7 mins. 2  If you want a hard-boiled egg, cook for 9 mins. 3  The shells are more fragile than hen eggs; to help avoid them cracking keep them at room temperature and lower them gently into the water with a slotted spoon. 1 If you want a hard-boiled egg, cook for 9 mins. 2  The shells are more fragile than hen eggs; to help avoid them cracking keep them at room temperature and lower them gently into the water with a slotted spoon. 3  Pricking the shell with a pin (being careful not to pierce the egg sac) can also help.
· just now. Report Abuse. soft boiled duck eggs Preparing the Eggs Fill a saucepan with enough water to cover four to six eggs. Bring the water to a boil and gently lower in the eggs. Turn down the heat slightly and boil for 8 minutes. Remove the eggs to a bowl of ice water to cool. Crack and peel the shells off. 
Depending on how cooked you like your hard boiled eggs, the eggs should be done perfectly in 10-12 minutes. That said, depending on your altitude, the shape of the pan, the size of the eggs, the ratio of water to eggs, it can take a few minutes more. If you need easy-to-peel eggs and you have fresh eggs, you might want to try steaming the eggs for 15 minutes. Pour an inch of water into a pot and insert a steamer basket.Bring to a boil. Place the eggs in the steamer basket, cover and steam for 15 minutes (more or less, check!).
4/18/2012 1:21:17 PM. By Tabitha Alterman. Tags: egg recipes. To make perfect soft-or hard-boiled eggs, put whole, room-temperature eggs in a pan of cold water and bring it to a simmer over medium heat. Once the water is at a low boil, begin counting. Remove the eggs at the time specified below, and chill them under running cold water before cracking and peeling. 
Starting with a pot of cold water, poke a pinhole in the large end (air pocket) of each egg. (this allows for expansion of the egg without cracking … the shell). Place the eggs in the pot, cover it and bring it to a boil. Boil the eggs 3 minutes for soft boiled eggs or 10 minutes for hard boiled. Drain the eggs and immediately cover them with cold running water until they are completely cooled, about 5-10 minutes, if they are to be served cold. If they are to be served hot keep them covered in the hot water. … Using cold water cover the eggs and add a dash of salt, place the pot on a eye of the stove that matches the size of pot you have selected and set to high.   Bring the pot to a rapid boil, let boil for 3 minutes. Remove from heat and cover. Let stand for 10 minutes.
Preparation method. Carefully place the duck eggs into a pan of boiling water and cook for 6-7 minutes. Remove from the pan and place in an egg cup. Butter the toast and cut into soldiers to serve with the eggs. 
This method works best if the eggs are in a single layer, but you can double them up as well, you'll just need to add more time to the steaming time. 3 Set your timer for 6 minutes for soft boiled, 10 minutes for hard boiled with a still translucent and bright yolk, or 12-15 minutes for cooked-through hard boiled. 
Hard Boiled Duck Eggs. Hard-cooked duck eggs are just like hard-cooked chicken eggs, only a bit richer. Because of the extra protein in the white, it is especially important not to overcook them. To hard-cook duck eggs, place them in a pot, cover them with cold water, and bring to a boil over high heat. As soon as the water boils, remove the pot from the heat and let stand 12 minutes for large eggs. (Medium eggs should sit a minute less, jumbos a minute more.) Drain the eggs and shake the pan vigorously to crack the shells; this lets them cool faster and prevents overcooking.
To hard-cook duck eggs, place them in a pot, cover them with cold water, and bring to a boil over high heat. As soon as the water boils, remove the pot from the heat and let stand 12 minutes for large eggs. (Medium eggs should sit a minute less, jumbos a minute more.) Drain the eggs and shake the pan vigorously to crack the shells; this lets them cool faster and prevents overcooking. 